-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Independence War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/independencewar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  8, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.1
Critic Score: 8.6, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 154 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Particle Systems
Genre: Space Combat Sim
Date:     Aug 31, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Independence War not only provides the most detailed flight and systems modeling yet seen in a space 
 sim, it also provides a complex, rewarding plot and a fully fleshed-out gaming world. 

 The crafty captain who deftly commands the crew of a starship to outwit a seemingly overwhelming 
 force is a well-known fixture in many science fiction tales. To date, no computer game developer 
 has successfully created a game that convincingly allows players to assume the role of that captain. 
 Interplay's recently released Starfleet Academy opted to give capital ships flight models and weaponry 
 that made the behemoths behave as if they were wanna-be X-wing fighters. But Independence War is 
 the real deal. Independence War not only provides the most detailed flight and systems modeling 
 yet seen in a space sim, it also provides a complex, rewarding plot and a fully fleshed-out gaming 
 world.   

 In Independence War you play the captain of a small capital ship, a Corvette burdened with a far-too-impressive 
 name, the "Dreadnought." As the game starts, Earth is in the midst of a decades-old guerrilla war 
 with the colorful Indies, a haphazard collection of former colonists who have rejected Earth rule 
 and formed their own political organization. Your character is a neophyte captain in Earth's Commonwealth 
 Navy, and you're given an introduction to the Indie/Commonwealth conflict through an impressive 
 14-minute-long opening animated cutscene. The game's developers put so much effort into the introduction 
 that upon viewing it I was immediately concerned that there wouldn't be enough other cutscenes 
 of comparable quality within the actual game. I couldn't have been more wrong. The game is literally 
 riddled with quality animated cutscenes and other scripted events within missions, which expand 
 upon the game's introduction and advance the game's plot. Each of the other members of your bridge 
 crew has a well-developed personality and contributes appropriate advice or comments during missions. 
 A number of other space sims have had well-developed storylines, but Independence War has so many 
 scripted events and plot developments within missions that the game almost feels like it is as 
 much an adventure game as a space sim. The storyline is always compelling, and occasionally interactive, 
 as your character's mission choices and decisions made within missions can dramatically alter game 
 events.  

 George Lucas admits that clips from World War II airplane dogfights were the inspiration behind 
 his Star Wars fighter battles, and it's not surprising that most space sims have also largely chosen 
 to emulate flight-sim gameplay, notwithstanding their gravity-less settings. While flight models 
 vary somewhat in each space sim, for the most part similar combat tactics will work equally well 
 in any game of the genre, and experienced Wing Commander or X-Wing fighter jockeys will do well 
 in either game or in any number of similar games. But gamers who boot up Independence War and expect 
 to be able to whiz through space, pulling gravity-based moves such as Immelmanns, and turning directions 
 on a dime are going to run smack into Independence War's steep learning curve.   

 In Independence War, objects in space have inertia, don't have arbitrary speed restrictions, and 
 otherwise respond in accordance with most laws of physics. In addition to having to learn these 
 scientific limitations, you'll also have to get used to commanding a small capital ship, which 
 doesn't maneuver like a nimble fighter even under the best of conditions. All of the ship's systems, 
 from weapons and shields to waste heat disposal and propulsion thrusters, are logically explained 
 and physically represented on the ship's hull, making them susceptible to damage. Some scientific 
 compromises were clearly made in the interest of ensuring that the game was still fun to play, 
 so you'll still hear some thunderous explosions even though sound doesn't travel in space, for 
 example, and planets and other celestial bodies don't exert gravity. But it's equally apparent 
 that Particle Systems wanted to emphasize the "science" aspect of the game's science fiction setting. 
 The development team's plausible handling of extraordinary technology and events gives Independence 
 War a very original, refreshing edge over other games in the genre.  

 There are four bridge stations in the game: command, navigation, weapons, and engineering. At the 
 command station you'll access mission briefings and be able to assume remote control over other 
 vessels, and at the engineering station you can give orders to four repair crews and adjust power 
 settings within the ship. You'll spend the bulk of your time, however, at the navigation and weapons 
 stations. The navigation station provides you with a convenient screen to guide the ship, pick 
 waypoints, and assign targets. The weapons station gives you the opportunity to see a third-person-perspective 
 wire-frame view of your ship, allowing you to keep your current target always in view and to effectively 
 fight enemies who are attacking you from a variety of angles. Your ship can trek through space 
 using basic thrusters, using an exponentially faster Linear Displacement Drive system, which is 
 convenient for intrasystem travel, or by using handy LaGrange points to warp to other star systems 
 using a Capsule "faster than light" Drive system.  

 While the ship's misleading name may invoke images of a mighty space behemoth, the Dreadnought is 
 instead a modestly durable vessel with an outstanding "team o' Scotties" repair crew and some fairly 
 basic weaponry. You have both a forward-firing particle cannon and missile bank and rear counterparts 
 to the two weapons. The forward-firing cannon is on the right-hand side of your ship and initially 
 feels a bit unbalanced and awkward to veteran gamers who are more accustomed to a fighter's duel 
 gunned approach. Cannons will automatically track opponents within a certain range, although you 
 can override that tracking by opting for a more rapid-fire, but unguided, attack. Missiles are 
 either remotely or self-guided, and you can quickly send missiles at a number of opponents simultaneously 
 using the weapons station's "rippling" fire mode. The weapons station's padlocked view also allows 
 you to track and fire upon enemies that would otherwise be out of range of your weapons.   

 Shields aren't all-encompassing energy fields, as in other space sims. In Independence War your 
 ship has two shield projectors, one protecting each of its upper and lower hemispheres, and each 
 projector is only capable of shielding you from one attacking ship at a time. Using your weapons 
 and shields effectively is difficult, but until you learn how to do so you won't have much of a 
 chance against multiple opponents. Even once you're experienced, you'll have to choose your fights 
 wisely. This is definitely not a game where you can be successful by charging in and trying to 
 blast every enemy in sight. Time to retire your "Iceman" instincts.  

 The graphics in Independence War are excellent, although strangely enough that might not be immediately 
 apparent once you boot up the game. Since the game's physics system frequently results in you travelling 
 in a direction other than the one your ship is facing, the Dreadnought's Heads Up Display (HUD) 
 displays a series of directional lines at all times to help keep you oriented. Similarly, other 
 ships leave a "ladder-like" trail behind them on your HUD, allowing you to quickly visually judge 
 their speeds and headings. While you can turn off the HUD, you likely won't want to lose all of 
 the information it provides, and as a result, the game's impressive 3D graphics are somewhat obscured. 
 Perhaps to alleviate this effect somewhat, the game will switch automatically to a full-screen 
 third-person perspective in certain circumstances, such as when your ship docks with another vessel 
 or travels through a capsule-drive warp point. The game's software-rendering mode is good, but 
 to fully appreciate the graphics you'll, as usual, require a 3D graphics-accelerator board. Only 
 native Glide support is included, so you'll need a Voodoo Graphics or Voodoo 2 card (even a Voodoo 
 Rush card won't necessarily work properly) to see all of the pretty pictures.   

 Not every ship system or game feature that the development team included works well. The engineering 
 and command stations are infrequently used, and I suspect that Particle Systems had more ambitious 
 plans for the engineering station and the detailed, and celestially accurate, star chart that is 
 accessible from the command station. Wingman commands are also fairly perfunctory. You're prevented 
 from dividing up your forces to achieve a series of objectives, as you can only issue one order 
 to your wingmen at a time, and all available wingmen will scramble to obey that order even if you 
 would tactically be better off keeping some wingmen in their current positions. Force-feedback 
 support is included, but it's only modestly utilized, especially when compared with the prolific 
 feedback effects in Descent: Freespace.  

 Considering the fact that Independence War was released several months ago in the U. K. under the 
 name "I-War," it's surprising that the manual still contains erroneous or misleading information. 
 The ship's power management (TRI) system is never explained in the game's manual, although there 
 is a reference to the system in the manual that directs you to a further, nonexistent section of 
 the manual. You'll need to learn a lot of keyboard commands in this game or have a capable programmable 
 joystick, and you can't change the configuration of the keys without manually editing the game's 
 keybind. ini file. The game's impressive introduction doesn't play automatically, and to get it 
 to run in full-screen mode you'll inconveniently have to specifically change its playback mode 
 by right-clicking on the movie once it commences. Unfortunately, these little inconveniences are 
 among the first elements of the game that players are exposed to, and coupled with Independence 
 War's already intimidating steep learning curve and initially disorienting graphics, they may cause 
 gamers to prematurely give up on the game. Hang in there, Captain.  

 Finally, the game's biggest strength is also one of its weaknesses. The game's missions contain 
 original objectives and are generally far more detailed and involving than those of any other game 
 in the genre. Unfortunately they sometimes suffer from overscripting, where the only way to advance 
 the mission is to take a specific, occasionally unintuitive or finicky, triggering action. Allowing 
 your ship to get pounded by your enemies just to advance the mission just feels wrong, and yet 
 that's exactly what you have to do in one mission. The scripting also very much gives the missions 
 a "puzzle-like" feel, where you have to figure out the trick to a mission before you have a reasonable 
 opportunity of success. Since no space sim yet has allowed gamers to effectively save the game 
 within a mission, it's not surprising that Independence War similarly excludes this feature, but 
 its omission was even more noticeable than normal because of the length of some of the missions 
 in the game. In the end, I found that the strength of the mission design in Independence War was 
 the main reason that the game stands out above other games in the genre, but I was still occasionally 
 frustrated by mission overscripting.   

 Independence War is easily the best simulation of a large spacecraft yet, and its originality is 
 extremely refreshing in a genre that is quickly becoming crowded. If you're willing to cope with 
 Independence War's steep learning curve and invest some time in learning the nuances of the game, 
 you'll ultimately have a very rewarding and unique experience.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: spencerlink
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 19, 2003 7:40 pm PT
Review:  The problem with reviews on this game are there are 2 different games being reviewed. They are 
 played on different video cards. The 3dfx version of this game is so much more beautiful and interesting 
 that it is a different game than if it's played on a Direct3D video card.
  
  That's a problem for the future, of course, because now there are no more new systems being built 
 with Voodoo (3dfx) cards, but this game and a few others are so good, I will keep one around for 
 years. (Go to eBay and build a cheap gaming system. There are LOTS of great games from years gone 
 by that won't run on later systems very well.)
  
  The physics in this game are, if anything, TOO realistic! The learning curve is huge for the casual 
 gamer like me. The payoff is huge, too.
  
  This is one of the most amazing games ever made. On the wrong machine, however, it just seems like 
 a pain in the hindquarters to play and it doesn't look so astounding, so you wonder what is the 
 big deal (?) . Well, the big deal is that you have to have the right video card and invest the time 
 to learn the game controls. Then you will understand. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
