-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Indigo Prophecy
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/fahrenheit/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 One of the best game stories to come along in quite a while.
 Deep, richly textured characters you will grow incredibly attached to.
 Inventive gameplay mechanics excellently tie together with the onscreen action.
 High-quality voice acting and soundtrack.
 Great atmosphere.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Story feels like it's missing a few key points of explanation.
 Not exactly impressive on the graphics front.
 Some of the more traditional adventure elements aren't great.
 Camera can be a royal pain.
 PC owners will want a dual-analog gamepad, as keyboard controls aren't ideal.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  7, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 8.5, 43 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 4,700 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Quantic Dream
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Oct 2, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Indigo Prophecy is a game that actually gives the term "cinematic gameplay" some context, as well 
 as some real heartfelt meaning. 

  The term "cinematic gameplay" gets tossed around an awful lot these days. And it's often tossed 
 around by game makers who simply throw in a few letterboxed cutscenes and minimalist heads-up displays 
 and then call it a day. Developer Quantic Dream's Indigo Prophecy is a game that actually gives 
 cinematic gameplay some context, as well as some real heartfelt meaning. More movie with an interactive 
 progression than video game pretending to be a movie, Indigo Prophecy eschews practically any modern 
 gameplay convention in favor of a significantly more subtle mechanical interface. You take part 
 in every action in Indigo Prophecy -- from the biggest fight sequence, to the most minor of day-to-day 
 tasks -- and you do it all with simple movements of the analog sticks on your PC gamepad or with 
 some quick button presses that are more akin to a rhythm game than a typical third-person adventure. 
 But where Indigo Prophecy truly shines is in its story, which is a deep, captivating, and sometimes 
 disturbing tale of one average man's journey to solve a murder that he himself committed.  

          Is Lucas Kane a murderer? Or is he just an unwitting pawn? It's up to you to figure it 
 out in Indigo Prophecy.    The average man in question is Lucas Kane, a handsome but worn gentleman 
 who lives his life as any IT professional in the great city of New York would. Kane's life takes 
 a dark turn one night, however, when he decides to visit a local diner. In the very opening scene 
 of the game we find Lucas sitting in a bathroom stall, convulsing and carving bizarre symbols into 
 his forearms. An unlucky schmo happens into the bathroom during this period, and Lucas, seemingly 
 unable to control his actions, attacks him, stabbing him multiple times. Moments after the killing, 
 Lucas returns to his senses, only to be equal parts horrified and stupefied by his actions. From 
 here you take control of Lucas, and it's up to you to get him the hell out of there.  

  This opening sequence gives you an excellent glimpse into how thoroughly intertwined Indigo Prophecy's 
 plot and gameplay are. Presented with a corpse, a murder weapon, and one of NYPD's finest sitting 
 out in the restaurant, you must decide how to proceed. Should you take the time to hide the body, 
 ditch the weapon, clean yourself up, and try to casually make your way out of there? Or will you 
 simply make a run for it as quickly as possible? You can do any or all of these things, and the 
 outcomes will vary from a very quick game-over screen to your getting Kane the hell out of Dodge. 
 And first and foremost, that's what Indigo Prophecy is about: choice. Every decision made and every 
 question asked takes the story in a slightly different direction. Of course, in most cases these 
 changes are merely cosmetic, simply letting the core scene play out marginally differently while 
 ultimately pushing you toward the same goal. But in more than a few cases, your choices will drastically 
 change the flow of the story.  

  And what incredible directions they can be. It is with no amount of exaggeration that we state 
 Indigo Prophecy features one of the best stories so far this year, as well as a remarkable amount 
 of character depth. The game is like an unholy mixing of  The X-Files ,  The Dead Zone , and  CSI 
 , with sprinklings of  The Matrix  and Shenmue thrown in for good measure. But the incredible thing 
 is that it never flies off the rails, no matter how ambitious its intentions are. The story dives 
 into some truly morbid territory, with its ritualistic killings, deeply troubled protagonist, and 
 downright intriguing backstory. We won't give any of the main plot points away, but needless to 
 say, there's an awful lot more to Lucas Kane's plight than mere loss of mental and bodily control, 
 including a series of past, similar murders and a mysterious cold front that's burying the city 
 in snow.  

  You won't just experience Lucas Kane's story, either. Early on you'll be introduced to two other 
 main characters, Detectives Carla Valenti and Tyler Miles. The detectives are the ones assigned 
 to the murder Kane commits, and right from the start we get to know these characters just about 
 as intimately as we do Kane. Carla professes herself to be the obsessive type, transfixing herself 
 on any case that comes her way. Tyler's more the streetwise type -- the cop you'd expect to see shaking 
 down narcotics informants and busting up gangs during the day, while clubbing it up at night. Carla 
 and Tyler are both playable throughout the story, and it makes for an interesting scenario. While 
 Kane is clearly not culpable for his wrongdoings, here you are playing two law enforcement officers 
 on the opposite side of the law from this accused murderer, with no understanding of the circumstances 
 beyond the fact that one man killed another. In effect, you're helping two sides that are both 
 intentionally and unintentionally working against each other.  

  Other characters are introduced into the fold, like Lucas' ex-girlfriend, Tyler's current girlfriend, 
 and Lucas' priest-brother, Markus (who is also periodically playable) -- not to mention the villains 
 behind all this. And even though the main three characters are where the game devotes its focus, 
 it doesn't leave the other ones underdeveloped. Lucas, for instance, goes to his brother not long 
 after the murder in search of guidance. Markus shows a great deal of conflict during this scene. 
 He loves his brother, but he can't begin to believe his incredible story. He wants to help but 
 is also bound by his faith and his perception of reality. The game doesn't treat the terrible crime 
 that Lucas has committed ambiguously, nor do the characters within it. Though some are willing 
 to help, effectively Lucas is a man without a country.  

  All in all, this is a sharply written game with a lot of depth. With that said, it does have its 
 problems. Namely, the later portions of the game take some sizable leaps, both in logic and coherency. 
 There's a big chunk where it seems like the developer went from point A to point C without writing 
 in a convincing point B. Getting into too many details beyond this would give too much away, but 
 it boils down to key characters being too willing to dive headfirst into seemingly unbelievable 
 situations, despite having appeared much more cautious and intelligent earlier on. There are also 
 elements that feel out of place, especially early on. Tyler's main storyline seems to act more 
 as comic relief than anything else, and when he's not making wisecracks while on the investigation, 
 he's investing time in his relationship or playing basketball against coworkers. In fact, the early 
 goings of the game center a bit too heavily around mundane tasks in general. So basically, the 
 story needed about 45 minutes cut from the first act, and it needed about 90 minutes more added 
 to the last one.  

  It also bears mentioning that at times the branching paths of the story lead to problematic conclusions -- especially 
 in the end. There are three different endings to the game, and the big final conflict can either 
 be pretty damned good or pretty lackluster, depending on how you end up there and how you play 
 it. In fact, you get the best, most dramatic final battle if you intentionally lose during certain 
 portions. Fortunately, once you've beaten the game, you can go back and select any of the game's 
 40-odd chapters to replay them however you like, ensuring you won't miss out on the best story 
 paths and endings. That's good, because the first play-through is unlikely to yield more than eight 
 to 10 hours of gameplay. But there are enough different options to squeeze at least a few more 
 hours out of the game beyond that.  

          Apart from a few annoying story contrivances, this is one of the best game plots to come 
 along in a good long while.     

  It's unfortunate the story takes these uneven turns, because it really is incredibly good overall. 
 It's got far more emotional impact, drama, and character development than what's often required 
 of a video game these days, and even with its rough spots, it has more than enough fantastic moments 
 to keep you engaged as you play it.  

  Yes, believe it or not, you do actually play Indigo Prophecy. The reason we've talked up the plot 
 so much is that your enjoyment of the game will hinge very largely on how into the story you get. 
 The actual game portion of Indigo Prophecy doesn't require an awful lot of skill on your part, 
 save for certain sequences. Instead, it asks you to simply explore and engage the many environments, 
 characters, and tasks before you by using simple, unobtrusive control mechanics that place you 
 right in the thick of the scene -- without relying on generic "action" buttons or heavy shooting 
 sequences.     

  For the most part you'll be moving your characters around in the third person, like you would in 
 a typical non-point-and-click adventure game. When in an environment, you'll frequently be invited 
 to either look for hot areas that can be examined more closely or look for objects that can be 
 picked up or used. The interesting thing about Indigo Prophecy's methodology with this style of 
 gameplay is that if you have a good dual analog gamepad, all your movements are mapped to its analog 
 sticks. You move around with the left, and whenever you encounter a door you can open, a mirror 
 you can look into, an object you can pick up, or anything of that nature, you'll see an icon at 
 the top of the screen that shows you a directional pattern in which the right analog stick must 
 be moved. Press forward to open that door or up and then around 90 degrees to take a drink from 
 a coffee cup, and so on. It's an odd concept to get used to at first, but it becomes second nature 
 as the game goes on.  

          It might seem weird at first to be playing an analog-stick-based game of Simon to engage 
 in an action sequence, but surprisingly, it works.     

  This same method is used for the conversational portions of the game. You're often presented with 
 multiple dialogue choices during a situation. A small bar quickly diminishes as time progresses, 
 limiting the amount of time you have to make a specific choice. Simple inquisitions often give 
 you the opportunity to eventually get the majority of questions asked over time, so the time limit 
 merely impacts the ordering of the questions. However, when playing as Lucas you'll often have 
 to be careful with your question and response choices, as bad choices can have a negative impact, 
 and in some cases they may make those you're talking to suspicious.  

  Lucas does have an advantage in many of these situations. See, Lucas is a bit on the psychic side. 
 How he comes to be this way we'll leave up to you to find out, but with this ability Lucas can 
 concentrate and hear what the person he's talking to is thinking about. Concentration becomes a 
 minigame in and of itself via two colored circles that appear onscreen. Like a somewhat bastardized 
 version of the game of Simon, the colors will light up, and it's up to you to press the left and 
 right analog sticks in the corresponding directions that match the colors. Do so correctly and 
 you'll be rewarded. Fail and, well, you can guess what happens. These rhythm-based minigames come 
 during other sequences as well. Many of the most-action-oriented fight scenes and escape scenes 
 place the progression of the action entirely within the scope of how well you handle these little 
 rhythm games. Believe it or not, it works. Even though all you're doing is rhythmically hitting 
 these timed lights, you do it with such timing that it feels like you're actually in control of 
 the scene. Plus, because of the way the lights are positioned onscreen, you never feel like you're 
 missing the action because you're forced to concentrate on the lights. They blend together -- and 
 well at that.  

  The other rhythmic minigame in Indigo Prophecy is more of a button masher. To simulate strenuous 
 activity, the game will often challenge you to mash two buttons on your gamepad as fast as you 
 can, and you must sustain this for sometimes lengthy periods. In some ways, this approaches the 
 level of ingenuity demonstrated in the other minigame, as you'll often be doing this during particularly 
 stressful times -- like, say, when you're pulling someone up who is dangling from a ledge or when 
 you're running as fast as you can while a helicopter's chasing you. Unfortunately, it does wear 
 on the fingers quite a bit, and there are times when the game puts too many of these minigames 
 in succession. Still, it's a neat idea.  

  PC purists might not be so interested in playing an adventure game via a gamepad, but this really 
 is the ideal way to play Indigo Prophecy. Keyboard and mouse controls are generally unwieldy when 
 it comes to character movement, and having to substitute eight keyboard buttons for the analog 
 stick directions during the minigames is just inconvenient. You might find that the button-mashing 
 game is easier via the keyboard, but unfortunately it doesn't seem like you can assign buttons 
 to both a gamepad and the keyboard -- you must choose one or the other. You can play this game effectively 
 with a keyboard, but it will cause more frustration than with the gamepad controls. Do yourself 
 a favor and just buck up and grab a good dual-analog pad.  

  Apart from these minigames and analog-based movements, there isn't an awful lot to keep track of 
 in Indigo Prophecy beyond your character's basic sanity. Every playable character is given a meter 
 that dictates his or her current mental state. Events that bring relief or catharsis often add 
 to this meter, whereas depressing, problematic events will detract from it. Just to give you an 
 idea of how morbid this game can be, the very top of the meter peaks out at "neutral," and it bottoms 
 out at "wrecked." Happiness, as you can see, is seemingly an impossibility for many of these characters. 
 Anyway, as neat of a concept as this is, it doesn't seem to have a tangible effect on a character's 
 behavior within the game. If the meter drops to zero, then the game ends, and you have to start 
 over from the last checkpoint. But that's about it. Some of the actions that boost and drop your 
 meter are also a bit dubious. Many of these tie in to the colored-light minigame, and they'll pop 
 up at occasionally weird times. Why, exactly, does reaching out to shake someone's hand cost you 
 sanity if you fail the minigame? And why does there need to be a minigame there, anyway?  

  The thing about all these gameplay mechanics is that none of them are difficult. Even if you turn 
 the difficulty to the hardest setting, anybody with reasonable experience in rhythm games shouldn't 
 have a tough time nailing down the faster flashes of the lights. But really, Indigo Prophecy isn't 
 a game that has to be hard to be enjoyable, and it would probably come across as a lot more frustrating 
 than fun if it were more difficult. In fact, the few areas where it flirts with more-traditional 
 gameplay aspects, like standard adventure game puzzles and a couple of stealth sequences, are probably 
 the least engaging portions of the game. They aren't bad by any means, but they feel a bit tacked 
 on in the context of a game that often goes directly out of its way to keep you glued to its plot 
 and less focused on the controller or keyboard. These crazy analog stick movements and rhythmic 
 minigames have a natural feel to them that you wouldn't expect. And that's what makes them so great 
 overall.  

  Graphically, Indigo Prophecy isn't exactly a looker. Though all the animations in the game are 
 motion-captured, there are more than a few instances where it seems like characters will throw 
 their arms around and jerk their bodies around in ways that aren't quite natural. Some of the more-choreographed 
 action sequences, however, look awesome. So at its worst, the animation is merely hit or miss. 
 The character models range from nicely detailed to just plain ugly at times. Lucas, Carla, and 
 even Markus are lifelike in design, whereas Tyler, his girlfriend, and some of the other fringe 
 characters look mildly mutated. Unsurprisingly, the PC version is the best-looking game of the 
 three available versions, especially if you've got a higher-end PC and can crank up the resolution. 
 Everything has a cleaner, crisper look to it than in the console versions, and we didn't run into 
 any weird glitches or stability problems using a midrange video card. It still lacks technical 
 prowess, however, and compared to what most PC adventure games are capable of, it doesn't quite 
 measure up.  

  The thing is, though, that the game's art style makes up for many of its technical limitations. 
 It's kind of weird, stylistically, as the vision of New York created in this game comes across 
 as a decidedly European perception of the American city. It isn't that it gets anything specifically 
 wrong, but it does, at times, feel like a European work of fiction set in America -- which makes 
 sense, since developer Quantic Dream is based in Europe. Anyway, the point is that this game has 
 atmosphere to spare, and through its use of environmental design and camera work, it does a wonderful 
 job of creating feelings of dread and tension. The game often employs a split-screen camera view, 
 showing an oncoming threat in one area and your character in another. In that first scene, once 
 you're out of the diner, the cop gets up to go to the bathroom. On one screen, you see him walking 
 slowly to the can, about to discover both the blood on the floor and the hidden body (provided 
 you went that route) , while you're outside in a snowstorm, desperately searching for a way to get 
 out of there as quickly as possible. It's really effective camera work.  

  Sadly, the main in-game camera isn't nearly as good. Though you have multiple camera options, they're 
 all variations on a basic cinematic camera, and it's one that has a bad tendency to get hung up 
 on walls and objects at inopportune times. In tight spaces, it's especially difficult to get it 
 to move back into a usable spot once it's out of whack. If nothing else, the in-game camera usually 
 does a good job of framing solidly dramatic shots. It just needs some significantly better movement 
 functionality on the gameplay side.  

          Gloomy atmosphere is not a quality Indigo Prophecy lacks.     

  Audio is where Indigo 
 Prophecy really shows its quality. This story wouldn't be worth a damn if the voice acting didn't 
 do its job, and in most every respect it does. The actor playing Lucas Kane nails the part cold. 
 He delivers the lines with just the right tone of confused despair and never comes across as anything 
 but genuine. All the other main characters do excellent jobs, too. Carla transcends the archetypal 
 role of the "hot, smart female cop" and makes it into something more believable, and even the villains, 
 despite their seemingly predictable intentions, come across as legitimately evil. Tyler is the 
 only main character who seems cheesy at all, but that's more a failing of the writing than the 
 actor portraying him, as he sells the character about as well as could be hoped for. It also doesn't 
 help that the soundtrack has a weird habit of chiming in with some generic funk music when he arrives 
 on the scene. There are times when it makes contextual sense in the game, and there are times when 
 it seems forced. Those few forced bits are really the only complaints that can be lodged against 
 the soundtrack, however. The game combines licensed music with an original score in ways that make 
 perfect sense. The licensed music ranges from decent alternative rock to even-more-decent down-tempo 
 grooves, and the score, created by  Lost Highway  and  Mulholland Drive  composer Angelo Badalamenti, 
 presents brilliantly melancholy tones from a minimalist string set. Aurally, the game gets its 
 sound effects down pat, with every effect coming across naturally and appropriately to set the 
 mood and vibe just right.  

  When all is said and done, Indigo Prophecy is the kind of game that will inspire lots of conversation 
 among those who play it. And it won't necessarily take place because of any particularly insidious 
 subtext or brilliant revelations, but just because (like any movie worth its salt) the game leaves 
 a lasting impression. Sure, it's got the underpinnings of a typical adventure game, but the way 
 in which it weaves its inspired gameplay mechanics into the fabric of its tale is really something. 
 Not everyone is going to love the way this game plays (especially if you're forced to do it with 
 a mouse and keyboard setup) , but anybody with a love for good storytelling and the adventure genre 
 will find Indigo Prophecy to be an original and enlightening experience.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (318 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: House-Max
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2009 4:41 am PT
Review:  the 15 first minutes .. I was almost readdy to delete the game...
  I start with that training part and I could say that movement suxx.. after the story starts.. and 
 the grafic lvl for that time was verry good I start "listen" to what tha game have to say to me.. 
 and start play and play, and finaly I got the story ideea... then I was so excited to see how the 
 story will go.. how I make my characters got the ideea.. the start "hunter , hunted" arive to work 
 toghether and got the ideas in one place.. and form the image of the true.
  I wanna say I am not a fan of adventure games... I really dont like them, but this one... this 
 is diferent.. is somethink new one game that can be played by girls and boys, is one game where 
 u can find more that u can dream :)
  is hard to describe that feeling u have while u play it, so it is better to try and play it.. trust 
 me it worth playing is one perfect game..
  from me he got 10/10 and he will allways get that ;)
  I am wating for the second part 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthpathfinder
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 14, 2009 6:20 am PT
Review:  Indigo Prophecy or fahrenheit depending on where you got this game from or where you live is one 
 of those strange games that you can not put your finger on. It has alot of QTE (quicktime events) 
 tied into it but some how it does not seemed to feel over used.
  
  Some of the events are just crazy like the room falling apart and trying to kill you where as others 
 you are beating the crap out of people. The game sarts up with you in the rest room over a dead 
 man.... You have a choice... Do you make a run for it or try and clean up as best you can to cover 
 your tracks?
  
  Also you do not play this game from one prospective.. Rather you play many roles as the killer the 
 cops and many other people. You are in a way hunting your self down.
  
  Also the frame of mind of the person you play plays a big part as well. Get things wrong and you 
 will start to get depressed. Get things right and your mood will change...
  
  This on thw whole is a differant style of game. It plays differantly it acts differantly and to 
 be honest i like that. I like to try differant things and i like it when developers try a differant 
 way for people to play game.
  
  If your like me and want to try differant stuff then go ahead and check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbrading
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 23, 2009 9:18 pm PT
Review:  To begin with, it is very clear that Fahrenheit (or Indigo Prophecy in the US and Canada) has some 
 extremely fascinating ideas, and an innovative style of gameplay which no other game can match, 
 or for that matter has even attempted. Overall it is a distinctly strange game, there being nothing 
 else like really it before or since. Whilst not all of this totally fulfilling (and can occasionally 
 be quite frustrating) , it does present an interestingly different way of approaching story, themes 
 and the overall idea of what a "game" is. On balance, I would tentatively recommend playing Fahrenheit 
 to most people, if partly for the storyline, and partly for the experience of what a different 
 kind of video game feels like.
  
  In general terms, the plotline of Fahrenheit mimics that of a supernatural thriller, almost straight 
 out of The X-Files. From the very first moment of Fahrenheit, you are thrown in at the deep end. 
 Zooming in on a cold and foreboding New York, the snow slowly choking the city, to a small Mid-Town 
 diner's toilets. It is here that you witness protagonist, banking IT manger Lucas Kane, brutally 
 murder an innocent stranger, seemingly in cold blood. From here, the story for the rest of the 
 game can branch a number of different ways, all dependant on how you act. Should you hide the body 
 and incriminating evidence, or just run from the diner as soon as possible? Should you linger at 
 the scene and finish your meal? Why did you kill that man in the first place? Kane is also hunted 
 by two NYPD detectives, Carla Valenti and Tyler Miles, whom you also play as on occasion. Together, 
 they are trying to piece together the puzzle of a string of similar ritualistic murders which have 
 occurred over several decades. To reveal any more details would naturally spoil the game, but for 
 the most part the overarching plot is extremely interesting and easily detailed enough to sustain 
 your interest. There is also a nice level of emotion and meaning not often present in game plotlines. 
 Problems and questions do arise however during the chaotic and frankly bizarre ending (s) .
  
  Gameplay is unique in many respects, and decidedly old-fashioned in others. Given that this 
 is a review of the PC version, I cannot comment on the functionality of the control scheme on the 
 consoles, which used analog sticks almost exclusively. On the PC however, the controls are particularly 
 weird. You use the mouse to move in a certain motion to perform certain actions. These movements 
 can be for anything from eating cereal to climbing a fence, and are generally required for most 
 interactions with objects. For example, it takes three movements to pour yourself a cup of coffee: 
 first to warm up the percolator, next to pour the coffee, and finally to pick up the mug. Speech 
 decisions whilst conversing with characters are similarly dictated by these mouse movements, but 
 thankfully physically moving around environments uses the typical arrows and mouse pointing. The 
 game also makes frequent use of large-scale set pieces, involving numerous Quick Time Events during 
 cutscenes (which make up a large chunk of the game) , usually in quick succession. During these, 
 you must press a certain set of keys in a certain time, in sequence, to successfully complete it, 
 very much like Sega's Shenmue. Failure means losing a 'life' (and seeing the consequences) , losing 
 all of which means Game Over. Whilst the mouse movements are just a bit irritating (it would have 
 been infinitely simpler just to press a button) , it is the QTE's where most of the problems come. 
 Unless you have great reflexes or a gamepad, these sequences are often going to leave you wallowing 
 in failure. This is especially frustrating during certain cutscenes when plot-critical information 
 is delivered, but you will be too busy caring whether you should hit the Blue or Red key. Repetitive 
 Strain Injury is certainly a high risk when playing this game.
  
  The voice acting cannot be criticised. All of the actors pull of great and involving performances, 
 and the good use of character movement and facial expressions also help to make them more believable. 
 This makes it a lot easier to feel empathy for the characters, and also aids in making you more 
 interested in the conversations which you direct between people. Musically the game is great as 
 well. The brilliantly sombre orchestral soundtrack feels very much like that of Max Payne 2, and 
 conveys the atmosphere well. There is also a peppering of licensed songs here and there, such as 
 some Punk Rock from Theory of a Deadman, and classic R&B tunes from Teddy Pendergrass and Ben E. 
 King (Tyler Miles is a big R&B fan apparently, since you hear those songs whilst playing as him) . 
 If you are in North America, you will most likely be playing the Indigo Prophecy version, which 
 removes several sex scenes and other "adult content" which occurs in the international version. 
 However, since none of these involve anything greater than what you would see if you watched Titanic, 
 rest assured that you are not missing anything and their absence does not drastically alter the 
 story.
  
  Like the original Max Payne, Fahrenheit is one of those games which uses a plethora of clairvoyant 
 visions and flashbacks which occur to Lucas, during which you can sadly still 'die'. For the most 
 part, none of these visions make any sense whatsoever (such as Lucas being menaced by giant bedbugs 
 whilst working at his bank, which none of his co-workers can see) , but are usually thrilling in 
 their own way. An interesting concept however is that of Mental Health. All of the playable characters 
 have a mental health bar, which will be raised or lowered according to their actions, successes 
 or failures. For example, on discovering he has murdered someone, Lucas' mental health takes a 
 substantial hit. Performing everyday activities such as eating, washing and listening to music 
 can boost mental health, while others can lower it. If the bar becomes empty (i. e. the character 
 suffers a nervous breakdown) , it is most likely Game Over once again, as Kane may commit suicide 
 or the Detectives may resign their posts.
  
  At heart, Fahrenheit is something different. Whilst it may not be successful in all it attempted 
 to achieve, it has certainly set a precedent for "interactive movies". The engagingly dark and 
 twisted plot, the faultless voice acting and novel style of gameplay all make it something which 
 should definitely be experienced at least once. With Quantic Dream's spiritual successor of Heavy 
 Rain slated for release on the PS3 this year, it is still a great opportunity to check out the 
 predecessor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drugstein
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2009 11:38 am PT
Review:  I installed this game just for curiosity, and I got shocked with the overall quality built in this 
 game...
  The plot is amazing, soundtrack fits very well to the moment.
  Playing with more than one character, let's you see booth sides of the story, it looks like a movie, 
 but you is "driving" it, and it gives you a complete interaction with this game, there's a lot 
 of jokes along the plot, you may laugh at it sometimes, but those monsters shouldn't be there, 
 the only thing bad, is that monster...
  
  Graphics aren't that great, but it doesn't matter here.
  Sound, great voice acting, make this 
 game unique in this genre (waiting for Heavy Rain, will be very very great) .
  Controls, to play it on PC, you definitely need a analog controler (PSX like) .
  Plot, amazing 
 (only this word describes it)
  
  sorry for my english, i'm brazilian. (they don't accept portuguese language on reviews)
  
  
 thanks ! and let's play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raiding_kvatch
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2009 7:36 am PT
Review:  Firstly the only difference between the North American Indigo Prophecy and Fahrenheit is the title 
 (apparently the North American market was deemed too stupid not to confuse the game with the Michael 
 Moore documentary, Fahrenheit 9/11, which is, quite frankly ridiculous) .
  
  If you are the type of person that likes mindless shoot-em up arcade style games, such as Black, 
 Fahrenheit is probably not for you. It is an intelligent action/adventure puzzle game, with a cinematic 
 twist (referred to by developers Quantic Dream as an "interactive movie") .
  
  Fahrenheit is the story of IT technician Lucas Kane, who, after going to the bathroom in a New 
 York diner, finds himself standing over a gruesome murder scene with the bloody knife in his hands. 
 The player is given the choice of how much, or little to clean up the murder scene. Every interaction 
 mirrors the movement of the character, for example when mopping up the blood on the floor the player 
 must move the right thumb-stick from side to side. The player must make decisions for Lucas and 
 how he will deal with his conscience, as well as covering up his crime to prevent him from getting 
 arrested.
  
  Parallel to the story of Lucas is the investigation of the murder by detectives Carla Valenti, 
 who is very serious and married to her job, and Tyler Miles, much more easy-going and fun-loving 
 than Carla. Decisions made while playing as Lucas directly affect the Carla/Tyler storyline; depending 
 on how well Lucas has covered up the murder in the diner Carla and Tyler's job can become much 
 simpler, or more difficult.
  
  The gameplay focuses almost entirely on the thumb-sticks, and almost entirely ignores the face 
 buttons. According to designer David Cage thumb-stick prevalence was intended to increase immersion 
 and make the player feel more like they actually performing the action, rather than just commanding 
 a character. It achieves this effectively.
  
  Fahrenheit also features scripted action set-pieces which rely on reflexes. Diagrams representing 
 the thumb-sticks are super-imposed over the action. Using different colours these diagrams demonstrate 
 sequences of control inputs, which the player must imitate to survive the scene. Each character 
 has a Mental Health Meter which represents the mental state of the characters; different actions 
 drain or fill this bar depending the consequences and how the character responds to them. If the 
 meter reaches empty (Wrecked) it spells game over: Lucas either kills himself or turns himself 
 in and Tyler and Carla will turn in their badges.
  
  Stylistically the game is very cinematic featuring a large amount of motion-capture animation to 
 realistically portray the action. It also employs the use of split screen shots, of a similar ilk 
 to the thriller genre, in particular 24.
  
  Without wanting to give anything away, I will say that that by the final third of Fahrenheit the 
 plot starts to move very fast and somewhat incoherently, making it a little difficult to understand 
 what has happened by the time you reach one of the three endings.
  
  Despite the confusing nature of the plot towards the end of the game Fahrenheit still features 
 innovative gameplay, is very visually interesting and has an interesting and gripping, if somewhat 
 confusing, plot. It is easily worth the 800 MP you would spend downloading to your 360, in fact 
 I thought it was well worth the 35 I spent on it when it first came out for the Xbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theevildoctor
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 28, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  You know what makes a really good game? Apart from nice graphics and cool sound quality and etc...
 
  A nice and interesting story. And you know what? It is delivered for the first half of the game, 
 but then it just becomes so non-sensical that all the fun is taken away from you.
  
  Yeah, it has innovative gameplay, and yeah it plays like a movie and blah blah but the story just 
 gets so... complicated and full of twists that I doubt that you will continue to have fun playing 
 this game if you at first thought that all aspects and details would be developed with depth.
 
  
  So, a word of advice? Rent it first, see if you REALLY like the way it plays. See if you have fun 
 with it. If you do, then buy it or whatever. If you don't, and if the story seems stupid, then 
 stay away from this game because it just won't be worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diioz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 4:10 am PT
Review:  Wow, what an experience here I had with this game. So much passion, you cannot play this game and 
 not feeling that its you there. I was trilled-in after the first seconds of the game. You really 
 find yourself in tragic position having to deal with adrenaline to get out of trouble. Almost scary 
 sometimes, this story is well made. Each time you see yourself connected with the character, when 
 you have choice to makes, changing the course of time in the story. I liked that you could actually 
 end with 3 different alternative realities. I would have wished more of these change. I am not 
 actually a really big fan of point and click game, but you really forget that your playing that 
 type of game. The actions scene are played off by fitting buttons in time with the screen, that 
 was cool. But it made it again more like a movie to me. The story is pretty for itself, you like 
 a kind of character you dislike others. You find yourself screaming at the screen :Don't do that, 
 or no!!!. It was a nice adventure game. I wish that they keep going on and make another one like 
 this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charliell
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  The game has an excellent script, would be a wonderful movie, but there are too many puzzles that 
 challenge your reflexes but not your skills. The idea of playing both parts is innovative and the 
 choices of different finale depending on your actions is fantastic. The voice acting is very good 
 and the scenarios complement the game atmosphere very well. In my case enyoing the highly addictive 
 story was penalized with too much action parts where is need fast fingers than fast brain, but 
 its only me, Im an adventurer gamer most of all. Maybe a good second part would be taking the 
 game more adventure and less action. The bonus in the game with scenes and music tracks are nice 
 addons. The graphics are great but have no innovation. The movement of the characters is capture 
 from real and look good but not superb. Epilogue: GREAT GAME, MUST HAVE, PLAY AND ENJOY.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GCrocksPS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Yeah, so as you can tell, considering my review of deus ex basically praised it for being the single 
 most imaginative, immersive, and frankly brilliant game of the twenty-first century (just) , and 
 gave it a ten for perfect, saying that fahrenheit is the best game on pc for me since DE is... well, 
 stunning.
  Fahrenheit revolves around three characters: Lucas Kane, a murderer on the run who suffers from 
 visions that become all too real, Carla Valenti, a claustrophobic but determined cop, and her partner 
 Tyler Miles, a baseball fanatic, but just as immersed in solving the homicide.
  I'll jump to it. 
  Fahrenheit, for what it's based on, essentially a murder that sets off a chain 
 reaction, is an incredibly immersive story that is certainly helped by its fantastic graphics, 
 natural and unnatural sounds, and its innovative take on the action genre.
  At certain points in the game, the player hits an action sequence that requires you to press the 
 arrow keys and (I use) the W, A, S, D keys to get through a sequence. Get a button wrong and don't 
 rectify your mistake in time usually results in a failure, leading to losing a life or failing 
 the mission and starting from the last save point. However, unlike some games, the save points 
 are usually at the start, middle, and end of a chapter, and when action sequences are involved 
 the game will save about half way through so you don't have to start all over again. The sequences 
 increase in difficulty and frequency as the game progress, but it builds up to allow you to get 
 the hang of it without consequence. It's a great revival of the action genre; instead of just running, 
 hiding, and shooting (in fact, there is very little in the way of shooting-i think only once in 
 the entire game) you are interacting with the character a lot more, deciding their fate. 
  Similarly, every choice the player makes in the game affects the outcome. For example, later in 
 the game, fail to save somebody will result in a loss of 'health' - see below. In the opening scene, 
 interacting much more with the characters before th ediscovery of the body makes it easier for 
 them to identify you/give information about you. 
  Fahrenheit is very much a cinematic experience, with you controlling the hunter and the hunterd. 
 It allows you to see the net closing in on Lucas, but also allows you to outwit yourself, swapping 
 between characters to mess up one storyline in order to build off another. 
  Finally, the health meter of the game is actually a depression meter, measuring your mental state 
 - it starts on full at neutral, then, as you lose (or gain, but your health can never surpass neutral) 
 mentality, it will drop to tense, anxious, stressed, depressed, overwrought, and wrecked. If your 
 character reaches zero mentality, then, depending on the character, they will either turn in their 
 badge, turn themself over to the cops, or commit suicide (depending on the location) . 
  This game has done so much for me - introducing me to the best game since DE, keeping me hooked 
 (once i got the hang of the action sequences - repeated failures is very frustrating and about 
 the only negative point of the game, unless the forty-odd chapters annoys you) until the very end, 
 and explaining the story in such fits and starts that you play it just to figure everything out. 
 Playing as both killer and cop is pretty awesome, to be honest, and like I said, outwitting yourself 
 is strangely fun (like playing chess with yourself...) but cleverly done in such a way that, while 
 you don't have to do certain things, the minimum amount of information must be gained before you 
 can move on. 
  So, basically, this game rocks. If you're a fan of the genre, buy it. Like now. Fahrenheit is not 
 one of those overhyped games that flops, it truly is an absolute masterpiece, and as such deserves 
 to be credited as one. 
  If I could give it 9.8 I would, but you can't do that anymore, so I'm putting it at 9.5 - I love 
 DE more, but fahrenheit is one hell of a game, and introduced me to a brilliant band. 
  Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doctor_Mo
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 25, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  TrueScore:8.2
  Gameplay: 7.5
  Graphics: 8.5
  Audio: 9.0
  Story: 7.0
  Tilt: 9.0
  
  Just finished playing the Indigo Prophecy (Fahrenheit) and wanted to write that it was a mixed, 
 but generally good experience.
  
  First the good... As most people will agree, the story is immersive and engaging. Playing each 
 character calls for you to enter the mind and persona of the character and have them engage in 
 activities as in real life. Fear, joy, sadness, happiness, are all emotions that are based upon 
 your decisions and actions in the game. Do you choose to tell the truth, or choose to lie? Maybe 
 you'll avoid questions altogether. Each type of response leads you down a potentially different 
 experience. Even though the end is fairly linear, the sights and sounds that you experience along 
 the way will be quite different based upon your choices. This is a strength of the game. The characters 
 are also full of flair and individuality. I like Tyler's attitude, and the internal conflict that 
 he has with his tendency towards creativity, yet obligation to duty. I like Carla's spunk, and 
 the inherent sadness in her loneliness. (By the way, she looks and moves just like Alyx Vance in 
 Half-Life 2!) And of course the tortured Lucas. Family problems, girl problems, mental problems 
 - he's steadily on the edge. Each time you take control of his character, you really feel the tension 
 and the obligation to do things just so that he comes back from the brink. With Lucas, it was all 
 about looking for an opportunity to grab something to eat and a cold drink, sitting and tuning 
 out with the t. v., listening to the record player, hitting the punching bag, playing a bit of the 
 guitar - anything to get his mind off the circumstances that he had been thrust into! Truly an 
 engaging game.
  
  Now the criticism. Again, as others have said, the biggest frustration with the game was the controls. 
 It's not that the controls weren't well thought out, it's just that in the execution, it was hit 
 or miss awkwardness. I'm speaking mostly of the sequences when you had to move the mouse (or gamepad 
 - I used both) just right to climb poles and fences. For some reason, I would always get so far 
 and then my motions wouldn't get read and I'd fall. Frustrating. The rhythm sequences were OK and 
 worked fine. I didn't like the speed sequences as much and I felt like I was jamming too hard on 
 my keyboard. I will say that the speed sequences did make you feel like you were desperately trying 
 to outrun something! I was genuinely tired after some of those! I guess in that sense, it had a 
 desired effect - another opportunity to immerse you into the tension of the game and atmosphere. 
 So, it was OK, just frustrating at times. The camera angles and motion was designed to be cinematic, 
 and that was fine as well. I don't think it detracted and it allowed the user to pan and zoom on 
 different shots like a director. I liked this aspect of the controls. 
  
  Towards the end, the story got to be a little incohesive and seemed to try to tie things up a bit 
 too quickly. I'm glad that things worked out for my characters - I really placed an emphasis on 
 the relationships and this was satisfying for me. I still had a few unanswered questions, but I 
 could easily create answers and scenarios for myself - no big deal. Everything shouldn't have to 
 be spelled out. 
  
  In conclusion, a very good game. Frustrating at times, but certainly an experience. Much like a 
 movie. Run and gunners need not purchase a ticket to this one. Best gaming to you, and enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Desertdback
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 4:50 am PT
Review:  I have been a big fan of adventure games, starting way back in the days of King's Quest and Space 
 Quest. The puzzles and the trial and error, have been lost in a lot of games today. But I saw a 
 reawakening of those in this game, along with a great story that mixes all the important elements 
 of a great adventure game. Story, good voice acting, humor, emotions, struggle, good vs evil, puzzles, 
 etc.. 
  
  Although the graphics show their age, they still get the job done and don't take anything away 
 from the story line and this interactive movie, where you make the choices of what to do and how 
 to save the world. 
  
  I just wish there were more quality adventure/puzzle games out there like this one. Hopefully someday 
 they will make a sequel or a game from the same creators that carry on their unique game mechanics 
 and game writing. As you can tell I did enjoy this game. Although if you are big into graphics 
 or big into shooting stuff, this isn't really the game for you. As its more about puzzles, then 
 it is about killing stuff. You have to use your brain along with your quick fingers to succeed 
 in this game. Hope you enjoy it as much as I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZackerThe3rd
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Indigo Prophecy is one of the greatest games i ever played. There has never been a game like it. 
 Although at times it feels like your sitting through a long interactive movie. I won't mention 
 anything about the story (I don't want to spoil anything for you) . During the game, you either 
 are walking around investigating, talking, eating, sitting, what your character does is up to you. 
 Choosing your actions is as simple as the flick of a mouse (literally) . There are also action sequence 
 that work just fine. You simply press the right button at the right time. Simple. On higher difficulties, 
 you don't have much time to react. The story is great, the game is nice and long, and some fun 
 unlockables. You should check this out no matter what type of games you like most. I guarantee 
 you'll love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xdra
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 3:50 am PT
Review:  Its interesting if not frustrating at later stages of the game to be that co-ordinated.
  
  Fights sequences require you to press buttons on your keyboard in sequence with the game to dodge 
 obstacles or hit your enemy. Its a bit frustrating at times since you end up focusing on your co-ordination 
 rather than marveling in what you're doing. It can also be extremely confusing having flashing 
 images in the background as you try to co-ordinate your fingers.
  
  The atmosphere created in the game is exceptional. So much so you wish that all movies were like 
 this game in that you were able to participate and be involved in what was happening. All your 
 actions affect how you will succeed in the game. Forgetting to do or hiding in certain places has 
 different outcomes with one of the two other playable characters.
  
  At first I was captivated in the story. I was so eager to know why the main character committed 
 this murder and how hes going to get out of it. As the story unfolded I became more and more intrigued. 
 And as it reaches the climax I felt so extremely let down. Instead of having a real explanation 
 it felt like a quick answer, an easy answer. It comes across as if they were so focused on everything 
 other than ending it properly. 
  
  Play to play, don't expect to be marveled in the ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meat_Bag
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  Indigo Prophecy (or Fahrenheit, for the European audience) is a very, very, VERY ambitious project 
 that was supposed to revolutionize the genre of adventure games. Even more, it was supposed to 
 create an entirely new genre called "interactive movie", where you could literally stretch the 
 main storyline in any direction you could ever dream of, depending entirely on your actions throughout 
 the game. Sounds familiar? Of course it does. A lot of games often bragged about these kinds of 
 things, such as alternative endings, plot twists that change depending on your actions, bonus features, 
 never-before-seen animation, blah blah blah...
  
  So, guys from the Quantic Dream decided to take that bragging to another level. In other words, 
 they decided to make an adventure game with weird controls, movie-style presentation and something 
 that should pass for "action scenes". And, surprisingly, it worked well. Not very good, but well 
 enough. 
  But let's start from the beginning. In this game you play as Lucas Caine. It's his story that we 
 mostly follow throughout the entire game, altou you can take control of other characters from time 
 to time as well. One cold winter evening, our wonder boy goes to a men's room in a local diner 
 after a quick meal, only to find himself falling into a dramatic trance. He wakes up few minutes 
 later, with blood all over him, and realizes he had just killed an innocent man. And oh, what a 
 surprise, there's a cop at the diner. And he's just about to go to the men's room as well. So, 
 what do you do? That's where the game starts. You only have a few moments to decide. Will you hide 
 the body and clean up the evidence? Or simply run away as fast as you can? Will you even get ALL 
 the evidence in such a short time? Oh boy, here comes trouble...
  
  And that's only the beginning. I'm not gonna tell anything more about the story, because after 
 all, it's the story that makes you wanna play this kind of game in the first place. Let's just 
 say that the game starts great, and after a few scenes you'll simply be going "WOW!" for a while. 
 But that's when the bad things start to happen.
  Well, for one thing, you'll very soon begin to realize that the game is not as good as it seems. 
 After a few breath-taking scenes, things will very soon start to go numb. It's as if the programmers 
 had a few absolutely brilliant ideas, implemented them all into first few hours of the game, and 
 then realized they actually have to fill up the rest of the game with something as well. After 
 you escape from the diner, and deal with a cop that comes knocking at your door, the fast-paced, 
 tense gameplay turns into slow, uninteresting flow of dialogues without any tension or uncertainty 
 that was supposed to be the highlight of the game. And you don't even have a lot of control over 
 your dialogue, because you only have a few short seconds to decide what to say next. And even then 
 it will turn out to be something completely different than what you tought it would be. Imagine 
 having about 1.5 seconds to decide between words "Suspects", "Unusual" and "Witness" while questioning 
 someone. Later on, you'll have to choose between even more stupid words such as "Wounds", "Symbol", 
 "Oracle" and "Caffe latte with some extra cream and sugar". Each and every one of those words hides 
 the entire conversation, and until you pick one you often don't have any idea about just what the 
 heck are you supposed to be talking about. Gosh, would it be so hard to simply let the players 
 choose their lines properly? But OK, I suppose they wanted to make it a "movie" experience or something 
 like that... Pausing the game to choose the next line would make it slower and less "movie-like". 
 Or that's what the programmers believed anyway...
  
  But then we come to the "action"... Yep, every crappy Hollywood movie needs a few good brawls, 
 impossible love story, hot girls and a lot of special effects and CGI animation. And yes, Indigo 
 Prophecy has it all. Fight scenes? Check. Pathetic love story? Check. Hot chicks? Check. Ambition 
 to suck money out of the audience? Double check. But when it comes to fight, don't think you'll 
 be doing any shooting or kicking. You simply watch the scene roll on, as you press the buttons 
 indicated on screen in order to "perform a combo". WOW! I'm soooo excited! Oooohhh! Now THAT'S 
 something new in computer games! Way to go guys! You reeeeally revolutionized the world of computer 
 games (Did you notice the sarcasm in my voice? Naaah, of course you did...) . Maybe in a console 
 version of the game, where you play these scenes with a gamepad, it feels less silly, but with 
 a default keyboard/mouse setup pushing buttons on your keyboard feels simply stupid. And it is 
 also relatively easy, altou there are a few frustrating scenes. Well, the game does support a PC 
 gamepad, but don't even bother with it, since it makes controlling your characters and action a 
 complete nightmare. I tried few different gamepads on few different computers, and it never gets 
 better.
  
  As for the graphics and sounds, there's not much to say. It's OK, mostly, but not terribly good. 
 Voice acting is done properly most of the time. Nothing special, won't make you cry tears of joy, 
 but it does the job. Same goes for the graphics in the PC version.
  
  So why did this game turn out to be a slight disappointment? Well, for one thing, It's not an "interactive 
 movie" at all. Despite the bragging from the game developers, Indigo Prophecy plays and feels just 
 like your average adventure game. Linear adventure game, to be precise. Yes, despite all the hype 
 about "being able to stretch the plotline in any direction you can imagine", it's still a very 
 linear game with few different endings and extra scenes that are completely irrelevant for the 
 game's plot. I played the game twice, and tried to do thing differently, only to end up with the 
 same development of the story over and over again, with few variations. Not very revolutionary, 
 I'd say... add to that a crappy, unbelievable and impossible love story near the game's end, frustrating 
 sneaking scenes with horrible camera, boring fight scenes and a VERY pathetic and corny "good" 
 ending you'll probably get, and you got yourself a very ambitious, pompous game that doesn't deliver 
 all it promised to the players. And pompous, bragging developers who simply can't put their money 
 where their mouth is. Just play the tutorial and you'll see exactly what I mean...
  
  My advice to you, my dear reader, is this - rent this game and see how the story turns out, because 
 that's the only good thing about this game.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Runer1944
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  Indigo Prophecy (aka Fahrenheit in European Versions) put as simply as possible, is a truly amazing 
 Psychological Mystery Adventure game which will make you stop and think at the end of it.
  
  "It all starts with a homicide.." should be the tag-line of this story focused game, because 
 at first glance, thats what it starts off with. And for those impatient gamers who base whether 
 they will continue a game, on its first level, WAIT!, because you will not regret progressing further.
 
  
  Indigo Prophecy puts you in the shoes of several playable characters throughout the plot, but simply 
 put, you play as Lucas Cane (the man who at the start, unconciously kills another and is trying 
 to find out how and why) , and the detectives, who are trying to track him down, and solve the mystery 
 which they suspect is like no other. 
  The game was developed to feel like an interactive movie, with multiple fix-point camera angles 
 and the pause menu which features a 'Play' and 'Stop' button, corresponding with whether you want 
 to continue playing or exit the game. This movie theme in the background is much supported by the 
 games innovative and accelerating plot with turns and swirls here and there, which resembles the 
 plot if one were to combine the films, 'Memento' and 'The Da Vin Ci Code'.
  
  Gameplay is very unique, as almost every interaction with the surroundings (or lack of it) will 
 affect the plot in some way, giving most players a slightly different journey, although the storyline 
 will stay quite consistent through the game up to the ending, which as you may expect, features 
 several different conclusions.
  
  Controls (for the PC version) are the weak point of the game, as the default controls are unusual 
 aswell as being awkward, promoting both hands on the keyboard be too close for comfort. Action 
 sequences throughout the game are unique to an adventure title, as you do not have specific attack 
 and defence buttons. In fact, the controls for action sequences are similar to those of Dance Dance 
 Revolution, or those corny disco dance sequences in GTA: San Andreas, where in this game two directional 
 pads appear on screen, and you are required to press the button of the corresponding direction 
 indicated as soon as the arrow (s) start flashing. Both directional pads onscreen feature symmetrically 
 colour coded arrows which helps a lot in the more tricky and difficult action sequences. Customization 
 of the keyboard controls are highly recommended! 
  
  Mouse action controls the interaction of objects and the enviroment. When an object near you is 
 interactable, a circle will popup and if there are multiple interactable objects at the same location, 
 you simply click RMB and drag in the direction of the line within each of the circles which have 
 poped up in relation to the object they are representing. Judging from these control configurations, 
 the game was designed more heavily towards consoles and the use of joypads, which would be far 
 easier to use then the mouse and keyboard. If you do have a PC joypad, great, because Indigo Prophecy 
 supports it and I highly recommend it.
  
  Overall, Indigo Prophecy is a truly amazing and unique game which is both immersive and features 
 one of the best plots in games out there. If you have a console which Indigo Prophecy has been 
 released on, I suggest you go get it as it will be one experience which will have you frozen with 
 aww and complexion by the end of it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 9:40 pm PT
Review:  Indigo Prophecy is a full Mocap classic Adventure game with a unique gameplay boasting higher interactive 
 controls. What I find amusing about the game is its attention to minute details like making your 
 characters going for a cup of coffee or to the loo for a pee even in the midst of their main tasks. 
 And these actions adds value to their emotions (that's considered your lifebar, sort of) which 
 seems weird for a game yet so disturbingly realistic in true life.
  
  There's a lot of nice action sequences that were done in Hollywood cinematic style but there's 
 this ASM sequence you have to play during these scenes which in turn cause so much distraction 
 you can't even enjoy the cinematics, so that's a shame actually. And talking about cinematics, 
 there's a lot of Matrix references that'll make Neo stand aside. Another amusing stuff is that 
 the game features a few mature scenes that pops up once in a while to warm your soul, ha.
  
  The game lets you play as 3 characters which lets you go intimately close to them and watch 
 their inner story but adversely, it just serves to make me feel disconnected to any character at 
 all. The game starts with a morbid intro and develops into a depressing story, so I guess kids 
 will find it a little hard to swallow, but if you're an experienced classic Adventure gamer, you 
 may want to check this out for that little action twist.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: auroracrawler
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game. i really get confuse when i must decide: how i classify it? growns on you or 
 highly addictive? even the fact i beat it on just 1 week on the "easy" difficulty don't change 
 the love that growns on me for this game. it's so human, so fluid, so great, the way the history 
 is telled. and after you play it, it takes the player way, not the productor's way, like ever game 
 is released today. it's an different game. not like other action games: shoot, run, shoot, take 
 some key, run, shoot, open the door, get away. this game have an objective: to know what happened 
 to Lucas Kane. the action sequences are frenetically funny. it's just repeat the rings sequence 
 and you'll see the action. some actions must be performed by an mouse move. it's frenetically funny. 
 the animations look fluid, and the lip-sync is perfect. the story really catch me. it's like an 
 great movie. if it will be translated to the 7th art, it'll be great. it have romance, action, 
 mistery, terror, sex scenes (oh, yeah... cool! Carla Valenti is hot!) , and the gameplay is very 
 innovative. sometimes you must quickly stop the rings sequences and do some force sequences, where 
 you must repeat the directional keys to make the bar get full and he perform the brute-force work. 
 but the most innovative is the claustrophobia scenes: they are really breath-taking. you breath 
 like the character carla valenti (take care to don't by faint with the game, boy!) . it's an really 
 emotionant game. it catch you on anyway. by the story, or by the gameplay that really challenges 
 you, i played so much games. but this is the better. the graphics aren't the better, but are good 
 graphics and don't take much from your cpu, but the game have some serious freezing bugs. nothing 
 that the 1.1 patch don't solve. overall, is the best game i have ever played. Buy it. you'll love. 
 give it a chance. i gave, and today i have the best game i have ever played. that's it. 9.5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vkain
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 8, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Indigo Prophecy has everything you could ask for in an adventure game. Great voice acting, intriguing 
 story, good vs. evil, and action sequences. Many, Many action sequences. This is one of the reasons 
 why it took me so long to get through. I ended up being so frustrated at trying the same action 
 sequence over and over again that I put the game aside for a long time. The only reason why I ended 
 up giving it a chance was because of the interesting story and well acted out characters. 
  I know the developers were trying out something new in the lines of blending simon says blinking 
 lights with character action movements but this feature took away from the game. I was so busy 
 worrying about hitting the right combination color lights that I couldn't enjoy the cinematics 
 playing out before me. I also didn't enjoy having to start the sequence all over again from the 
 beginning once I died. There is no way to save it halfway through, it's all or nothing.
  However I'm glad I sucked it up and got through to the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hardboiled15
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 10, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  When I first instaled the game i dident have such high hopes for it I thought this would turn out 
 to be one of those games you never complete. I was wrong dead wrong. This game has a great plot 
 thats even better than most movie plots out there.
  
  The sound in the game is amazing great voice acting and good music is a good combination! The graphics 
 in the game won`t leave you stunned but it wont disapoint you either its not very nice and its 
 not very bad its good enough to do its job but the characters in the game looks great.
  
  One thing I really loved about the game is all choices you have to make in the game. For an example 
 at one point you play as the main character in the game Lucas at the work when the police comes 
 and asks you some questions. You will have to answer them all by yourself and be fast because you 
 just have a few seconds to answer and there are often many different choices.
  
  You will be playing as many different characters in the game but the 3 most important ones are 
 Lucas, Markus and a female cop sry can`t remember her name. I wont tell you anything about the 
 plot because I dont wanna ruin it for you the plot is everything in the game and there is much 
 more cool things with the game that I want you to discover for yourself BUY THIS GAME ITS WORTH 
 IT! BTW the graphics and the short length of the game keeps it from getting a 10 but I really think 
 the games length was just right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YellowJello
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 6, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  OVERVIEW:
  Indigo Prophecy is a paranormal thriller about a man named Lucas Kane who lived a normal life in 
 New York City up until one night he found himself standing over a dead body in a diner bathroom 
 holding a bloody knife. He had no recollection of what had happened and the only thing going through 
 his head was that he had to get out of there before the police find this body. The story also follows 
 two police investigators, Carla Valenti and Tyler Miles, who are investigating the murder that 
 Lucas Kane had unwillingly committed.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 8.50/10
  The gameplay in Indigo Prophecy is different from anything I have ever seen before. Most of the 
 game is figuring out puzzles and making choices. All of the choices you make throughout the game 
 effect your character's stress and mood and that has an effect on how many choices you can make 
 throughout the game. For instance, if your character is almost completely free of stress (neutral) , 
 then you will have more responses to people in conversations than you will if your character is 
 completely stressed out (overwrought) .
  
  The default controls are pretty terrible, but easily changed. By default, you're supposed to use 
 the arrow keys and number pad to move around and do your QTE sequences, which is, by today's standards, 
 an absolute no-no. But as I said, this is forgivable because they can be changed and, if changed 
 to the right settings, are very easy to learn through the optional tutorial you can take at the 
 beginning of the game.
  
  The fighting sequences use what is called QTE, or Quick Time Events. What this means is that the 
 fights are pre-determined but in order to complete them you must press a series of buttons in the 
 order that they come up or your character will fail the sequence and get hit by whatever he is 
 either dodging or being attacked by. QTE is also sometimes used in this game for telling quick 
 lies; if you do not pass them, you tell a lie and the person you are speaking to becomes suspicious 
 and may not believe you.
  
  GRAPHICS: 6.75/10
  The graphics in Indigo Prophecy are the weakest point in the game, but in all honesty it really 
 has no major affect on how much I, or anybody else for that matter, enjoyed the game. They are 
 about as good as the graphics used in the game Max Payne 2: The Fall of Max Payne. This has adverse 
 effects on the look of the game since Max Payne 2 was released two years prior to Indigo Prophecy.
 
  
  One thing that the game did have that you don't seem to see quite enough of in video games is motion-capture 
 animations. Every movement that the characters make in both cut scenes and in-game are very lifelike 
 and add to the movie-like qualities that this game has.
  
  STORY: 9.25/10
  Indigo Prophecy is completely story driven, so it was important that it be at least satisfactory 
 or the gameplay would suffer greatly. The story I will admit was very strange but it kept me in 
 suspense throughout almost the entire game. It's almost like a good book that you just can't put 
 down; it keeps you guessing up until the very end. It's like a mix of the story from an episode 
 of Law & Order and the sci-fi thrill of The X Files. The only issue that I had with the story was 
 that all of the endings were all a bit anti-climactic. They were satisfying, don't get me wrong, 
 but there were so many better ways for it to end than the ways that the writers chose.
  
  SOUND: 8.50/10
  The sound in Indigo Prophecy plays a big part in the overall feel of the game. 
 The creepy ambience of the game fits very well with the movie-like sound track by fairly well known 
 bands like Theory of a Deadman. The only bad music sequences were the ones where you play as the 
 supporting role of the investigator Tyler Miles. Almost all of the scenes where you play as Tyler 
 there is this ridiculous funky music playing in the background that makes him seem like the stereotypical 
 black man in a 1970s movie.
  
  Another issue that I had with the sound is the voice acting; not only was the voice quality a little 
 questionable but the voice acting itself was pretty monotone and just good enough for the characters 
 to be somewhat believable. It's a shame that they couldn't have gotten any known celebrities for 
 this game; it would have made it even more like an actual movie.
  
  ORIGINALITY: 10/10
  Indigo Prophecy is different from any game that I have ever played before. There are a few games 
 out there that follow strong story as well as use QTE action sequences, Shenmue for the Sega Dreamcast 
 for instance, but I have never seen anything that combines the two in the way that Indigo Prophecy 
 did. In games like Shenmue, no matter what you do, the outcome will always be the same no matter 
 how well you do in the QTE sequences; if you fail the sequence in Shenmue, you have to go back 
 to the beginning of that sequence and try again. In Indigo Prophecy, however, if you fail a QTC 
 sequence, depending on where you are and if you've fail multiple sequences of course, the scene 
 will change and the outcome will be a little different, most of them will not really have an affect 
 on any major points, but you still get to see a few different things throughout the game.
  
  OVERALL: 8.50/10
  Indigo Prophecy is above all the best and most original game of it's kind. 
 It does have its issues, but overall the game is very satisfying and the good very much so outweighs 
 the bad. I would definitely recommend this game who enjoys a good sci-fi adventure game but for 
 those of you looking for a hardcore action game, this is not the choice for you. This game is a 
 lot of talking and investigating and doesn't focus so much on the action sequences. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alamar3
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 5:58 pm PT
Review:  One of the best adventure games ever. Fantastic story and climat, incredibly got you involved. 
 Bad side that game itself is not long but best quality. You'll love this game, I played only once 
 but I think I remember every location! This game is also very original. Only game I remind now 
 that I could compare to this in quality is Beneath a Steel Sky but games are of course different 
 in almost everything :) But both are absolutely the best.
  Playing Fahrenheit (Indigo Prophecy) is so good, I would say its better then watching a movie or 
 reading a book about something similiar, nothing will give what this game can give you!
  Don't believe some comments, gamepad is not necessary, I have keyboard only and I played absolutly 
 fine with no problems, it was great. But it might be better if keyboard is "flat" but anyway its 
 not a problem, for me it wasn't difficult anyway, more like easy then difficult so dont worry about 
 that. I absolutely recommend this great game and story you will not forgot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjyek
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2008 8:41 am PT
Review:  It's one of the most innovative action/adventure games I've ever played.. and I'm a freak when 
 it comes to adventure games! It features several elements of adventure gaming that most adventure 
 games don't have or lacked.. great storyline; although it's like a movie so it's a bit predictable 
 at some point in the game.. well, not really.. but still it raises the bar in creativity.. plus 
 it gives players bonuses in the form of mini games, sequences, behind the scenes act, etc.. plus 
 the players can get bonuses in the form of soundtracks and movies.. I especially love the theme 
 for Lucas Kane.. congratulations to the team who work on this game! I'd say it's as good as Indiana 
 Jones game that I have played on PS2 (I played Indigo Prophecy on PC)
  
  The only regret I have is that I didn't play this game when it first released... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blurrypixel
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 4, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  What's to like:
  - Intriguing story
  - Interesting characters
  - Incredibly addictive
  - Good replay value
  - Great character depth
  - Great scenes
  - Great voice over
  - Superb 
 animations
  - Superb game design
  
  What you may not like:
  - Very short adventure game (   - Easy
  - Incoherent story
  - Weak and very similar endings 
 (3+)
  
  
  Difference between "Indigo Prophecy" and "Farenheit - Director's cut"
  
  Initially, this European game was called Farenheit and was rated "Adult" in the US because of a 
 few romance scenes being a bit too graphic. Then it was renamed to Indigo Prophecy with the aforementioned 
 scenes censored for the US market. Know that the Director's cut doesn't add anything to the actual 
 game as far as the story goes and there's at most 45 seconds of "visuals" modified. So whether 
 you get Indigo Prophecy or its European version, you will ultimately get to play the same game.
 
  
  
  Story
  
  Unlike my other reviews, I'll use a different approach so that you get a better idea of how this 
 game feels like.
  
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  0-10% of the game, 
 Introduction - 9.4/10
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Prophecy Indigo 
 starts off really strong, if not shocking, and pulls you right into the story in its very first 
 minutes. You get to play as Lucas, someone who strangely assaults an average Joe in a Dinner for 
 no apparent reason. Your main goal from that point will be to avoid getting caught by the police 
 and more importantly, try to find out why you did it.
  
  It won't take you long before you get attached to the different characters. There is you, the main 
 suspect in the investigation, Carla, a really charismatic investigator (who reminds me of Alyx 
 from Half-Life 2) , and Tyler, a rather cool and almost-funny detective. You will get to play as 
 all 3 of them. The twist of playing those 3 characters is that you have to be good at leaving a 
 minimal amount of clues for the investigators to find and then, as the investigators, be thorough 
 enough to find them.
  
  The beauty of this game is that you get to play as part of the cinematics, similar to the TV Show, 
 "24". Sometimes the screen splits in different views in order to give you a hint of where you should 
 go or what is happening nearby that has impact on what you are currently doing. Those segments 
 are really adding to the immersion especially in urgent situations.
  
  One neat aspect as well is that everything you do or say has a direct impact on how the story unfolds. 
 Though the actual plot will remain the same despite your choices, it is the 'How' it happens that 
 you will have control of.
  
  You play in third person view in a 3d world. Everything is very well designed and considerably 
 stylish which contributes greatly to the gloomy atmosphere. The actual characters, especially Carla, 
 the investigator, look very good. The sound in general is also very good to set you in the right 
 mood. Your character can walk, run and interact with the objects that you are facing. So in order 
 to do things, you have to move your character in front of an object and then do the proper mouse 
 gesture.
  
  Mouse gesture? Yes, instead of your typical point and click, when you move in front of an object 
 that you can interact with, icons show up at the top of your screen with the mouse gestures associated 
 with the possible actions available. This innovative system may seem awkward at first but you will 
 quickly become familiar with it. The only issue you might have with them during the course of the 
 game is that sometimes the 1-word-descriptions aren't descriptive enough.
  
  This is especially true in conversations as you have a limited time to read the possible answers 
 before giving your answer (with the mouse gesture) . Know as well, for those that played Penumbra, 
 that the hand gestures are a lot more simplistic.
  
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  10% - 60% of the 
 game, Character Development - 9/10
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Another innovative 
 aspect of Indigo Prophecy is that you get to go through a typical day of their lives down to its 
 very detail, quite close to a Sim actually. For instance, you can eat, go to the bathroom, take 
 a shower, watch T. V., meet your friends and the like.
  
  Any of your action can influence your moral. The best moral you can have is "Neutral" and the worst 
 is "Wrecked". You die if you go below that stage. Though it doesn't really play a role in the story, 
 the moral system is mostly useful in specific segments of the game where some characters will lose 
 moral as time goes by -- forcing you to do what is required.
  
  As the story progresses, you will have to face many challenges, usually in the form of action sequences. 
 The 2 main types are: button alternation and button synchronization.
  
  - Button Alternation - Simply by pressing left and right as fast as you can
  - Button Synchronization 
 - Press the arrow keys in the same order they show up on screen
  
  Failing an action sequence can result in 2 ways:
  
  - You lose an advantage, which influences 
 the story
  - You lose a "life"
  
  A life can be gained by finding a cross. If you fail a sequence, you lose a life. If you still 
 have lives remaining, you can continue, or else you die. There are also a few other mini-games 
 that don't rely on that system, but they are rather straightforward (for instance, shooting targets 
 in First Person View) .
  
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  60% - 90% of the 
 game, Apex - 6/10
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Up to that 
 point, Indigo Prophecy does a superb job at building great character depth and raises the intrigue 
 to the point of having you constantly guessing who or what is responsible for your behavior.
  
  Then it goes haywire.
  
  Let's just say that the story twists in a way you won't recognize 
 yourself and you will find it quite difficult to wrap your head around your new goals. Sure, writers 
 will try to justify everything but there won't be any adventure per se, they will just tell you 
 what happened -- which will be pretty far fetched. Still, you will want to play more in hopes that 
 the gameplay goes back to how it used to be. Though, unfortunately, it never will.
  
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  90% - 100% of 
 the game, Conclusion - 5/10
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Just as you 
 start getting used to the new game setting, the story takes another turn, once again.
  
  The new additions don't fit with the story at all, especially because there is very little of an 
 explanation provided. To say the story makes a giant leap at that point is an understatement. Even 
 the characters you are quite familiar with start to behave completely incoherently. For instance, 
 your nemesis can instantly kill anyone (except you) , and yet, will threaten to use a gun on someone...? 
 It's hard to accept spending so much time on building up a great story, an intriguing nemesis, 
 to then see everything go kamikaze on itself.
  
  
  Ending 
  
  Depending on your actions (and failures) you will have access to one of the 3 endings. They are 
 rather weak, short and very similar but you will want to see them all. This is easily feasible 
 because beating the game gives you access to replay any chapter you want -- which is great for 
 this game.
  
  
  Conclusion
  
  Though Indigo Prophecy is truly unique in its gameplay, story telling and immersion, one can only 
 wonder why such great potential was sabotaged. The makers or publishers that took this decision 
 kept this gem from being perfect and one can only hope that their next instalment won't repeat 
 the same mistake (see Heavy Rain) .
  
  Still, most of the game is quite ingenious and highly recommendable.
  
  
  7.8/10 (Average 
 of every scores per section)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mysterr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  i was looking for a game to rent, and i just chose Fahrenheit, without any info about it, i just 
 liked the picture it had in front.
  i didn't expect it to be so good! the more i was playing, the deeper i got in its atmosphere. all 
 the characters, their thoughts, their personal lives, their Feelings and mood changes, the superb 
 music that plays, the.. everything in this game is meant to make you really feel it.
  it just fills your head! i remember the day i first played it, i wasnt talking much with others.. 
 crazy but true
  it's been 2 years since i played it, but i just can't forget the 
 
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: attila1975
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2008 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Indigo Prophecy is my greatest gaming experience ever.
  
  Deus Ex was very much up there, the two factors that make Fahrenheit even better is the great intuitive 
 controls, and the very attractive and deep characters.
  
  I loved everything about this game, it was an awesome (if a bit over the top towards the end) story 
 to be part of and a great character to play.
  
  No doubt you already know what the game is about, so do yourself a favour, stop reading, get hold 
 of the game any way you can and play it. It will be the best decision of your gaming career.
  
  I wish there were some First person shooters with such immersive stories and great characters 
 out there. At the moment, there`s nothing that can come anywhere near Deus Ex. Fahrenheit is a 
 different genre, but it doesn`t make it less fun to play. You will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garydiamond
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 11, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  As a diehard gamer since I bought my first Master System as a kid, I've seen gaming grow an an 
 incredible rate. I've also seen the market saturated with first and third person shooters of variable 
 quality, leading to a very one-dimensional start to the X360/PS3 war with only Nintendo's less 
 powerful but lovable 'back to basics' approach with the Wii breaking things up. Fortunately, this 
 game is one that manages to combine something new and thrilling with a great array of characters 
 without being too cute or too mundane.
  
  Indigo Prophecy is one of the most ambitious games of the last five years, at least. Whoever had 
 the idea to create a control method that looks like two 'Simon' games linked to control characters 
 in the action sequences was inspired - not only is this method fun because it's new, it is also 
 fun because for the most part, it works brilliantly, and allows you to really connect with the 
 lead character, a very troubled New York suburbanite named Lucas Kane.
  
  The story is incredibly compelling. When playing the game it was obvious that instead of trying 
 to push hardware limits to make yet another glossy game that'll look dated in a few years time, 
 Quantic concentrated on fleshing out characters and crafting a story that works incredibly well, 
 at least for the initial two thirds of the game. That's not to say the graphics are awful - for 
 the most part they are well animated and the lip-syncing is accurate, but the performance of the 
 voice actors and the script is what drives this along. And although the story can be very dark, 
 at many points the game throws in some form of comic relief, usually in the form of Detective Tyler's 
 forth-wall-breaking humour.
  
  Most games will give you one angle and run with it throughout. The ambition of the developer was 
 such that, you play as hunter and hunted. This gives you several characters viewpoints, making 
 the story feel a lot more immersive than the standard 'find a weapon, find some armour, shoot and 
 run, shoot and run' approach of too many off-the-shelf games. Kane is the morose, confused protagonist. 
 Valenti is the smokin' hot, career obsessed female detective and the vegabond Motown-loving Tyler 
 is her male counterpart. There are some good turns from the minor characters too, each one designed 
 to be anything less than generic.
  
  With all this praise leveled at a game which can completely captivate you, it might be surprising 
 to see why the game has received a 7. Firstly, it is because I have personally had some huge technical 
 problems with the game, so much so that I began to think either my machine or the game was broken. 
 It turns out it was the latter.
  
  Several times during cutscenes - or more critically and detrimentally, during one of the frenzied 
 action scenes - the game would lag, or crawl, or completely halt, often for minutes at a time even 
 when doing something simple like opening a door. In some cases the problem was so bad the game 
 would assume my actions were incorrect - this was especially problematic in Kane's apartment, where 
 it is neccesary to survive an onslaught of object-based attacks.
  
  As a result I often lost a life or two through no fault of my own, even with graphical settings 
 turned to minimum and no other applications running on my Windows XP SP2 platform. It really hurt 
 the gameplay when I would have to repeat sections several times after the game completely crashed, 
 and sadly I had to cheat by using button-mashing to complete some of the more buggy sections.
 
  
  Secondly, the story seems to completely fall apart towards the end, due to an unprecidented pacing 
 acceleration which jarrs with the smooth flow of the first couple of dozen chapters. So at many 
 points where suspension of disbelief would be tangible if your emotional connection with the characters 
 was stronger, you might find yourself laughing at the huge jumps the plot makes to tie up all the 
 loose ends.
  
  Although the game does have a heap of problems that normally would result in a score of 6 or even 
 5, as most of the story is excellent and the control method so unique, I can't mark this lower 
 than 7. Especially when I have to add that the score for the game, although not hugely varied, 
 is completely fitting to the tone and mood, with a good mix of original compositions and licensed 
 songs. If Quantic makes another game in this style, bugs corrected, I'll certainly play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vogen
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Although this game is rather dated, and the graphics are a great show of the years this game has 
 passed through, I couldn't help but be awe stricken by the sheer brilliance of cinematography and 
 story telling combined to create a truly amazing gaming experience. 
  
  I have had this game for quite some time now, and it honestly was hard to convince myself to play 
 it. I recently got my PS3, and didn't want to shame myself by reverting back to the basics of the 
 ps2. After arguing with myself to go back and play this game, I did. I played it on my ps2, and 
 I loved it. The only few comments I would have to say is that the frame rate sometimes slows at 
 major parts of the game. Also, in the action sequences, you often miss some of the really cool 
 stuff that is going on throughout the screenplay because you are too focused on getting a perfect 
 score on the colored sequences corresponding with the direction of the analog sticks. Movement 
 is also sometimes a pain because of the way the camera switches. The controls aren't like a survival 
 horror, so sometimes you find yourself running into walls when you mean to go th other direction. 
 This can often be a huge stress factor when you have seconds ticking away to try and accomplish 
 whatever it is you have to do.
  
  I happen to be a huge fan of psychological thriller movies such as saw, the matrix, and many other 
 movies that screw with your mind. This game was very similar with its' format of cinematic quality. 
 There isn't much "action" or even true playing of a game. It is very basic "point A to point B" 
 linear directional exploring. With action sequences that are as basic as playing with a yo-yo (which 
 you actually end up doing in the game) . However, this does not take away from the game in any way, 
 for it is more like watching a movie than playing a game. I found it was a very good "transition" 
 game. Where I wasn't sure which game I wanted to play next, so I just popped this on in. It was 
 a great decision. 
  
  The coolest part of this game, I felt, was the "sims" aspect of the game. You must keep your character 
 as happy and as sane as possible to keep them from committing suicide or just giving up on life. 
 The decisions that you face in basic conversation with other people are almost stressful, being 
 you are timed on making the decision. Some of these decisions greatly effect the path the story 
 line of the game may take. 
  
  Over all, I would greatly suggest this game. It can be beaten in about 2 days if you spend a decent 
 amount of time with it, and it is a great game to play if you simply don't know what other games 
 you wish to play. If you can stand graphics that are dated, but can come to love them along with 
 the spectacular story line that comes with them, then this game is a great buy for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roosteraxe1
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  It's difficult to sum up how great this game is. Any game that starts up with you murdering someone 
 and having to escape the scene of the crime unhindered is something special right from the get-go. 
 With an interesting story mechanic which features you switching between the murderer and the cops 
 hunting him down, and an interesting occult-filled story between the two, not to mention a gradual 
 lead into apocolypse, there's plenty of interesting story to get you by. Gameplay isn't the strongest 
 suit of this game. Control of your character is similar to the old Resident Evil games. It's not 
 horrible, but it could have been better. Where this game excels though, is in the other gameplay 
 mechanics. You don't just watch the cinematic sequences, you interact with them via timed button 
 presses that generally involve whatever you're doing in the movie. This is handled through a translucent 
 display that allows you to time your buttons while never feeling removed from the scene. Towards 
 the end of the game the story starts to unravel. You can tell the developers wrote themselves into 
 a corner. A sudden third party appears practically out of nowhere with very little explanation 
 of where they came from and why. This almost ruins the story, but the developers somehow manage 
 to barely hold it all together leading to a satisfactory ending. All in all this is an amazing 
 adventure game that does so many things different and right that you can't help but be impressed 
 with what they've accomplished here. In a world full of point and click adventure, this is definitely 
 something different and worthwhile. Everybody should at least giv e this game a shot. You'll be 
 surprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HussanAli
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  Fahrenheit, a spectacular interactive thriller, set in New-York, gives gamers the unique chance 
 to play both hunter and fugitive, which in turn leads them to speak, explore, interact, fight and 
 confront unknown dark forces.
  
  For no apparent reason, ordinary people are randomly killing total strangers. Although there is 
 no link between the murderers, they all seem to follow exactly the same ritual and pattern. 
  
  Lucas Kane becomes one of these murderers when he kills a stranger in the men's room of a restaurant. 
 Finding himself in control of Lucas, the player is haunted by strange visions and the desperate 
 need to find out what is happening to him. At the same time he must keep one step ahead of the 
 police, especially Inspector Carla Valenti and her teammate agent Tyler Miles. 
  
  
  
  You play more than one character in the game. How you act as one character can have a consequence 
 on other characters you will control later in the game. 
  
  Fahrenheit blends the limits between cinema and interactivity in ways never seen before, all in 
 real-time 3D. 
  
  The unique interactive writing techniques mean the player's actions really affect the storyline 
 .
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RexTTer
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 10, 2008 12:50 am PT
Review:  There is another review here telling of the problems with installation and playing this game with 
 Windows Vista. The operating system is not supported by this game. There are three problems I've 
 encountered.
  
  The first problem is the game will not install. You get a message saying, "The installation has 
 been interrupted and will end." The only way around this is to copy the whole DVD to your hard-drive 
 and then download an installation program someone has been kind enough to write. So the first problem 
 is now solved.
  
  The second problem is the game won't "launch". I've put the word 'launch' in quotation marks on 
 purpose here. So you download the 1.1 patch and hope that's going to help. It doesn't. Actually 
 what happens is the program 'fahrenheit. exe' does launch and runs, but nothing happens. You can 
 see it in the Task Manager. So far I have not solved this one, and I'm not alone. The Atari site 
 is has many other people asking how to solve this one. Which brings me to the third problem.
  
  Support from Atari is none existant. Many other people have mentioned this problem on their 
 forums before I got there this week and no help or solutions are offered by Atari. So you're on 
 your own. Compatibility modes, administration priviledges and crossing your fingers will not get 
 this game to run on Vista. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uacagin
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2008 2:58 am PT
Review:  I think the only thing missing in this game is better graphics. It is the first time i see in a 
 game that morale effects the characters in the game. The story is great but i think that they exaggerated 
 a bit about the fighting moves,'cause the moves remind a little bit of the fighting moves in MATRIX.... Actually 
 i dont care A LOT about the voices in a game except when it's a horror game and i didnt notice 
 that the voices in this game were perfect until i read about it. The gameplay is great, but the challenges 
 in the game where you have to press the right button in a very short amount of time is a bit hard 
 and it becomes nearly impossible if you play it on harder difficulties. But these challenges also 
 make the game more fun, it's worth the pay and the playing hours and its one of the best adventure 
 games i've ever played...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rokyzas
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  Fahrenheit is an adventure game where every decision has a direct effect on the story path of an 
 unfolding mystery. In this paranormal thriller, New York City is stunned by a series of mysterious 
 murders that follow the same pattern: ordinary people become possessed and kill absolute strangers 
 in public. Lucas Kane becomes another one of these murderers when he suddenly kills a stranger 
 in a men's bathroom. Lucas must uncover the supernatural forces behind his crime before the police 
 find him-or he loses his sanity.
  
  A good deal of publicity was generated from the developer's rejection of conventional game genre 
 labeling for the title; Quantic Dream prefers to brand it as the first truly "interactive film" 
 rather than an adventure or third-person action title. This game features a large amount of motion 
 captured animation as well as branching story lines, split screen cameras (used in a manner very 
 similar to the television series 24) and an interface designed to be intuitive and realistic. Event 
 triggers in the game are also mainly time-based, as opposed to the more common player-initiated 
 progression found in most games. A majority of critical reviews were enthusiastic, and considerable 
 praise has been given to the developers for their attempt to reinvent and reimagine the "adventure 
 game" genre.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SDX-LV
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  I have just recently finished Fahrenheit on my laptop. I knew a bit about this game for quite a 
 long time but my old PC was rather weak, so I bought it only now when I've got my new laptop. Game 
 is definitely worth the money, but this thread is not about how great the game is - you can find 
 fantastic reviews and comments like this everywhere. I wanted to post my experience about how to 
 get the game working on a recent computer and what do you get :rolleyes:
  
  Background: "Best of Atari" european release of Fahrenheit, bought December2007 in a retail store. 
 Laptop - Core2Duo 2GHz, 2GB RAM, GeForce 8600M GT 256MB (169.28 driver) , 1280x800 widescreen monitor, 
 WinVista 32bit SP0.
  
  1- installation - you insert the DVD, start the installer and get an error of some sort which leaves 
 you with nothing. on Atari support page there is no information whatsoever and you even have to 
 register-login to download a Patch for the game!!! wtf? Ok, after 30min I was lucky and found the 
 workaround in the forums: This solution is the only one which makes the game patchable. BTW, the 
 hosting for this crucial file looks very untrustworthy, so in case the file is unavailable I have 
 a backup.
  
  2- patching - (btw, I am not sure if I had to apply patch to my version, but I couldn't find any 
 version information, so I did it) Nice, installer works! But now I've got another famous problem 
 - "Please inseart DVD" :laugh: Solution/hack - get a no-cd from a warez Fahrenheit! Sounds great 
 - thank you crackers for making the only existing fix to run Atari licensed software!! :chapeau: 
 If you don't like to download a no-cd crack from a **** website with porn banners, then sorry, 
 you won't get any help from Atari on this one 8)
  
  3- setting up - great news, the game which was designed to run as a widescreen movie Does not support 
 widescreen resolutions by no means known to man! In fact the best possible resolution is 1024x768, 
 so if you have a monitor like mine, you can disable all scaling options in nVidia control panel 
 to get quite small but crisp and undistorted image. But if you are a lucky full-HD resolution monitor 
 owner or something - there is no ideal resolution/setting for you.
  
  4- running - in my case I pushed 8x anisotropy and 4x AA together with everything on max, and it 
 was fine, till in some action sequences the display driver kept crashing and restarting. It was 
 annoying up to one episode where it crashed too much and after continuous Alt-tabing and driver 
 restarts I even got a couple of BSODs. So I found the if you don't use AA and anisotropy in my 
 case the game did not crash in the worst places and display driver had next to no problems in all 
 the remaining sequences.
  
  5- what else? - for me it was it, but if you have a 64bit OS then you will encounter at least one 
 more problem with Fahrenheit, I hope the fix for 64bit WinXP on Atari support site helps with Vista64bit, 
 so Have fun 8)
  
  The reason I wrote all of this is that in my experience, I have installed a lot of illegal software, 
 but THIS was much more. Such task of getting the game running was one of the craziest and comparable 
 only to game modding hassle, while in fact it was a brand new legal DVD! Then again, it doesn't 
 say that the game is compatible with Vista on the box, so I couldn't even return the game saying 
 that it does not work as promised...
  ----------------------
  
  Now comes the best part: when I posted above written topic on official Atari Europe Fahrenheit 
 forums I got banned from the forum without explanation and the post itself was deleted! This is 
 how Atari treats its customers. I wrote emails to various addresses in Atari with complaints and 
 explanation of the issue, but within more than a week received no response. Game is good, but Atari 
 does not respect it's customers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockstarrem
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply one of the best games ever made. Indigo Prophecy starts out in a diner called 
 "Mic's Diner", inside there something controls the main character, Lucas Kane, to kill someone 
 in the restroom. You need to successfully get out of the diner without anybody noticing anything 
 unusual about you. The rest of the story follows Lucas into finding out why this is all happening 
 to him, and how. You control a lot of characters in the game as well.
  
  The controls of the game are not bad, to be honest I thought they were great. At first they're 
 a bit hard, but once you play a few levels you will get very used to it. There are different ways 
 Indigo Prophecy deals with controls. One way is with the mouse, and the other way is with the number 
 pad and the arrow pad. The mouse way is the dialog of the game, you pull up to do one thing and 
 you pull down to do another thing.
  
  The setting of the game is fantastic, New York City in a non stop snowstorm with extremely cold 
 temperatures. You will notice that all of the characters have jackets on and steam comes out of 
 they're breath as well. It shows a lot of realism in the game. 
  
  The characters in the game are fantastic. Lucas Kane thought he was a normal man, but he soon finds 
 out what he really is later on in the game. Carla is a detective for the NYPD, she is also extremely 
 hot. Tyler is also a detective in the NYPD with a stereo-typical wife that complains about being 
 scared of something happening to him. Markus is Lucas's brother, he helps Lucas along the way. 
 I won't give away the rest of the characters, as it will spoil some of the game. I will tell you 
 though that you do play all of the characters I mentioned. 
  
  I really love this game for it's storyline and it's complete idea. I really, really do, no matter 
 who you are, I would recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rdm2
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2007 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Hello, i'm portuguese, and there's not much to tell about this work of art...
  
  For me, it is simply one of the best games ever.
  
  The fellings and emotions that this game 
 make us feel, are nothing less than owsom, (or wharever it's written..) .
  
  This is one of the few games that is hard to discrib how much you love them.
  Every gamer should 
 play this title, but sure, is a no possible escuse, if you love a great story, while youre playing.
 
  
  When youre buying this game, you're not buying a game, you're buying a great experience, that, 
 at least, if your a gamer, will mark you until you die...
  Your not gonna have the game, allways on your mind, but sure i will remember Fahrenheit when i'm 
 70 and older, if i get there.
  
  So, resuming:
  
  This game, astonish me!!!
  
  Not 9.7, not 9.8, not even 9.9...
  
  I give it a 10/10.
  
  Kumps!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mac631
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 7:04 am PT
Review:  Story: supernatural storyline that include the Mayan Oracle, Clans and the A. I. It starts with 
 a murder done by Lucas Kane. U won't forget the story for a long time.
  
  Graphics: Moderate, but acceptable.
  
  Sound: Great voice-acting, game music is superb.
  
 
  Gameplay: simply suck u in. u like playing a character in an amazing movie, with 3 different final 
 endings. every choices u make will affect the storyline.
  
  Value: Little replay value.
  
  Tilts: 10/10, a masterpiece if u looking for a good story, JUST AN ART.
  
  Controls: pretty 
 bad in the beginning u play the game, but u will found it acceptable when u played for few hours.
 
  
  can't wait for the Heavy Rain from Quantic Dream! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liffaman
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 4:33 am PT
Review:  This is no doubt one of the best adventure games for the pc ever created
  has a gamer that fall in to the trailers and the upcoming videos teasers over the net... i knew 
 i couldn't let this one slip away without me playing it.
  and.. luckily this game is even better then the trailers...
  
  the story is amazing and the 
 directing of the scenes you play is awesome
  playing an awesome thrilling movie worked fine at last
  not like other games before
  this game 
 did it right
  
  the game play and port is pretty cool and refreshing
  i wish there were more games like it...
  
  the game is a movie that you play and its kind of 
 a bummer that there is not much to choose for the game to have a different paths.. but there is 
 still the fillings that your choices has a different effect for the rest of the game
  it is amazing how you play all of the characters
  the cops and the criminal and still want them 
 all to succeeded their way...
  
  well... 
  it is an amazingly interesting refreshing gaming experience...
  its great to see how an old school 
 game with an old 3d engine
  still can look good and can be played even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pjkobes007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Let me just iterate that I am a gamer who tends to get 80-90% through a game and then gets some 
 sort of video game A. D. D. However, after starting up Fahrenheit, I only took 2-3 breaks away from 
 the storyline and action. 
  The plot is superb and with so many choices throughout the game, you're almost bound to never play 
 through it the same, or even receive the same outcomes each time.
  Graphics wise, the designers created everything from the characters, special effects, and environment 
 completely well. 
  Sounds are superb as well with melodramatic mood settings, upbeat modern music (in the case of 
 Kane's mp3 player) , and sensual music as well.
  Controls are almost impossible to mess up and interactive sequences come with perfect timing.
 
  In all, the game can be played from start to finish anywhere from 8-20 hours (depending upon how 
 well you manage situations) . I highly recommend this game to anyone who enjoys simple controls, 
 a great storyline, and a high tilt factor which will bring you back for another round (movie) . 
 A-
  
  -Philip
  
  ps. If you decide to purchase for the PC, I HIGHLY recommend the Fahrenheit version over Indigo 
 Prophecy as it (I. P.) was edited for the U. S. market due to explicit material/content. I've played 
 through both versions, and while I. P. is just as good, Fahrenheit fills the gaps in the plot/storyline 
 that should have stayed in the game for both versions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antogall
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  Indigo Prophecy is one of those rare games that is truly artistic. From the subtle references to 
 Nietzsche's "Thus Spoke Zarathrusta" to the biblical and mythological allusions, to the inspired 
 voice acting of several of the main characters, this game is packed with reasons to believe video 
 games can jump the gap from entertainment to art. Also, for this reason, the game is vastly better 
 than the sum of its parts.
  
  First of all, the control system is terrible. Walking and looking are often awkward activities 
 that really take some getting used to. Also, some of the minigames are downright tedious. For example, 
 there's a scene in which your character is challenged to a game of basketball. You control your 
 character through a very simplistic rhythm game scheme in which you push arrow keys and keys on 
 the numeric keypad corresponding to what you see on screen. This is amusing at first, but you are 
 forced to sit through ten rounds of this, which can take close to ten minutes. Not only does this 
 get extremely boring and tedious, but it greatly distracts the player from the "meat and potatoes" 
 portion of the game.
  
  Also, some of the gameplay mechanics in action sequences are very poorly implemented, and you'll 
 find yourself playing a rhythm game for 10 minutes to climb a couple of fences and ladders.
  
  Another gameplay complaint is the lack of ability to bypass some cutscenes or sequences. At 
 one point in the game, having to replay a certain section will result in having to listen to the 
 same 2-3 minutes of dialog over and over again. 
  
  The story is brilliant, though it does seem as though the developers tried a bit to hard to cram 
 surprises into the latter portions of the game. However, the story is still outstanding, one of 
 the most suspenseful I've played (or read for that matter!) You will be totally drawn in and will 
 be excited to find out what happens next. As I have already mentioned, the game/story draws significantly 
 on previous literary, philosophical, and religious works to create a vividly artistic game experience. 
 If you are a philosophy or literature buff, you will be especially pleased by this game. 
  
  Graphically, the game looks very good, especially considering its age now. Many of the performances 
 were motion captured so they look great, and the environments, though small, are very thoroughly 
 designed and detailed and immersive.
  
  The audio is great, including an (at times) appropriately minimalist soundtrack reminiscent of 
 Philip Glass and a talented cast of actors and actresses. A nice array of ambient sounds enhance 
 the overall atmosphere of the game and contribute to the immersion felt by the player. 
  
  In summary, while the gameplay system is broken in many regards, the story is what really counts 
 here. It is obvious that the developers of this game really believed that what they were working 
 on was a piece of art, which fortunately shows through at almost every turn. If for no other reason, 
 you should buy this game just to encourage developers to come out with similarly artistic titles 
 in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kori911
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  The "games as art" debate has been around since the invention of two paddles and a bouncing ball. 
 Arguments against this assertion have, for the most part, revolved around a lack of narrative story 
 telling. Indigo Prophecy however is a game that breaks from this tradition. In doing so it delivers 
 one of the best bendable story archs ever mastermind set in an immersive world that will hook you 
 from minute one.
  
  It is incredibly hard to discus Indigo Prophecy with out giving away its truly amazing story. This 
 is because the story sewn though-out the entire game. Every action you perform reveals a small 
 tidbit in a tale that where it a movie; would be an instant blockbuster. You start the saga as 
 Lucas Kane, a normal mind-mannered man. One snow crested night in a small diner Lucas gets up from 
 his table, follows a man to the restroom, and stabs him to death. You gain control of Lucas just 
 after this murder, but something is amiss. For Lucas has no idea how he has gotten here, or why 
 the man beneath him is dead. It is now that you must unravel the mystery of how Lucas became a 
 killer.
  
  One of the most unique things about this game it your ability to bend the story. From the get go 
 you can perform many actions that affect how certain parts of the story play out. Do you run out 
 of the bathroom covered in blood and dart down the nearest alley-way? Or will you attempt to hide 
 the body and clean you self up, so that you may casually walk out the front door. These choices 
 are your's, and each one reveals different story driven dialog. Even if you chose an action that 
 gets you arrested, and therefore a game over, you are treated to excellent dialog blurbs about 
 what happened after Lucas was incarcerated.
  
  Parallel in time to what Lucas is doing, you play as two police detectives. Carla Valenti and Tyler 
 Miles are given the job of bringing Lucas to justice. In many cases you'll have the ability to 
 control either character for the purposes of questioning witnesses, and hunting down clues. The 
 game is broken up in to chapters where you control one of the three playable charters. You're given 
 the choice of which character you would like to play as in a "choose your own adventure" esque 
 story arch. There is an excellent balance between the stories and each protagonist is fully fleshed 
 out with unique backgrounds and home lives.
  
  Adding to the outstanding story is the game's direction. Indigo Prophecy feels and looks like a 
 movie. This is due to the way the camera angles and pans around your character. The scenes are 
 displayed in a film noir style reminiscent of Christopher Nolan movies such as Memento and Batman 
 Begins. This visual style haunts every setting with perfectly selected viewing angles. This is 
 not to say that the camera is solely in a fixed position, as when necessary you are given control 
 over it. Also adding to cinematic feel, is the game's liberal use of extra screens to display action 
 that is happening in more than one place. Often when things are heating up, your screen will split 
 in to two or even three allowing you to simultaneously see different events.
  
  The similarities between Indigo Prophecy and movies also show themselves though the game's action 
 sequences. During an action sequence your ability to control the character is removed. Instead 
 the game will control the character for you while displaying two faint "Simons Says" like images 
 in the center of the screen. During the events happing on the screen the two images will cycle 
 though different inputs that you must match. For example, the right image may display UP, DOWN, 
 LEFT, while the left image shows RIGHT, DOWN, RIGHT. Your goal is to repeat these inputs in the 
 exact same order. Doing so correctly advances you character in the action, while incorrect inputs 
 result in losing a life or worse. Along with input matching will be stamina tests. The game will 
 task you with alternating left and right as fast as you can for a predetermined time. Usually this 
 mechanic comes in to play during actions that would in real life actually require endurance, such 
 as swimming or hanging off a ledge. In this way the controls immerse you with-in the world, as 
 the stress you are going though mirrors the character's stress.
  
  One downfall to the action sequence controls is that for the entire time you are watching a scene 
 you will be staring at the indicators. It would have been nice to have an option to replay the 
 scene once completed with out having to input anything, so you could get a better look at what 
 is going on. Another detractor is that certain sequences are far too long. There is a scene in 
 particular where Lucas' apartment becomes swept with wind and everything is sent flying. It becomes 
 difficult to obtain a good rhythm in this long scene as there are over 25 different objects you 
 must avoid, each with three unique input assignments. Also, if your hand eye coronation is not 
 up to par, Indigo Prophecy will call your bluff immediately, as it is very unforgiving of incorrect 
 selections.
  
  Interacting with objects is another instance where normal button press gaming is forgone. When 
 you come across an object which can be manipulated, you use the mouse to interact. Clicking and 
 holding the left mouse button allows you to drag the mouse in the ways indicated by onscreen contextual 
 diagrams. These inputs will be simple left or right movements that usually correspond with where 
 the object is in relation to your character. This mechanic also shows it's self when having conversations 
 with a NPCs. It is a simple yet effective way to manipulate the world and is used well.
  
  Another way in which Indigo Prophecy ashews normal gaming conventions is its "Sanity Meter". While 
 it functions similar to health bars in other games, the way it is affected is completely different. 
 Instead of being affected by battles, it's affected by interactions. Doing normal things such as 
 watching TV or playing guitar can raise or lower your sanity. When playing guitar you might do 
 well and therefore gain some sanity points. On the other hand, watching a television displaying 
 a news a story about Lucas as a murder has negative effects. The game strikes an interesting balance 
 between doing things that you know will make your character feel better, and doing things that 
 might make the character unstable. However, most of the interactions you perform that affect characters 
 negatively reveal more about the story, so you are compelled to do them. If the sanity bar reaches 
 zero your character is committed to a mental asylum which is a game over, yet since there are so 
 many things that can be done which appease this hardly ever becomes a problem.
  
  While the environments you play in are linear, they are also very detailed. From the dinner in 
 which you start the game to the police station in where the detectives work, the settings feel 
 astatically different. Each setting is full to the brim with intractable objects that all have 
 individual dialog portions. The character design is a mix of 3D models with motion captured face 
 mapping. The Faces are lifelike and sync to the voices perfectly. Yet since the bodies do not enjoy 
 the enhancement of mapping, scenes where less clothing is worn makes the 3D models look clunky. 
 Luckily these scenarios are few and far between, and are not overtly distracting.
  
  Indigo Prophecy has incredible replay value, not only due to the bendable story, but also credited 
 to the three different endings. You can choose which way you want the story to play out, and replay 
 the game in these ways, even choosing to die or get arrested in parts for more story background. 
 Each time you speak with another character you get four choices of what to say or ask, but only 
 two at any given time can be selected. This encourages multiple play-throughs so that you can attempt 
 all dialog selections. On top of that scattered though out the chapters is collectable currency 
 which you can trade in for wallpapers and music from the game's outstanding sound track
  
  Indigo Prophecy is a masterpiece in gaming. Its few flaws are limited to some longer then necessary 
 action sequences, and clunky 3D modeling However, these downfalls are quickly forgotten thanks 
 to its brilliant bendable story. This game is a must have title, unless your only idea of fun is 
 confined to gaming convention norms.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmweekes
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  I realise that my review for this has come a few dozen full moons too late but while looking through 
 my collection earlier, I was reminded by the box art as to what the game was about and the journey 
 that it took me on. I really love the way this game made me feel the first time I played it through, 
 so I am going to tell you about it in an attempt to enthuse you to purchase it so there will be 
 a sequel. It would be a shame if this kind of design frame fell out of existence, because in this 
 time of endless sequels...... and gamers moaning about the endless sequels and that there is no 
 innovation or artistic endeavour in games and they just go on and on..... sort of like this sentence 
 has. Considering this you should all be ashamed for how criminally overlooked Indigo Prophecy was. 
 
  This is the only game I have played that let me control every major character in it, and the actions 
 you make while playing as one character genuinely affected the path you would have to take playing 
 as the other characters. It IS infact as clever as it sounds and seeing as the game now goes for 
 a few bucks I suggest if you haven't done so already that you pick up a copy now and sit back and 
 enjoy what is essentially an interactive film. I hope to see more of this kind of thing in the 
 future, especially with the new wave of hardware opening up the potential for quality acting in 
 future games (see the tech demo for "Heavy Rain") . I realise that I have not touched upon the story 
 in any way shape or form in my demented scribblings and I am not going to, all you need to know 
 is that the story is dark and well told. And there are action sequences and camera angles that 
 hollywood film studios would be more than proud of. It is a constant pleasure throughout (apart 
 from having a typically misguided stealth section that is all too common these days. Good news 
 is it doesn't last long) . If you thought rpg's like Final Fantasy and Zelda were the pinnacle of 
 game story telling then you need this game to put some sense into you, and if after playing the 
 game you don't agree then I shall eat a cactus propelled at me by a sling shot in a single gulp! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jlhagad
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2007 5:12 am PT
Review:  First of all, i hated the controls of this game. Even after reconfiguration, it's still uncomfortable. 
 A beautiful third person game like this should have had camera controls similar to popular 3rd 
 person games like GTA or Hitman. I mean, if independently rotating your camera while navigating 
 wasn't enough, you still have to deal with not being able to strafe. It's gets really frustrating 
 especially on the timed scenes. But maybe that's just me.
  
  That aside, the game is great. I love that you get to play all the main characters. It gives a 
 more movie-like feel to it. I'd tell you about the story, but that'll just spoil the fun. I really 
 felt like I was watching a movie while playing it. That is, except for the action scenes where 
 I had to concentrate on the flickering lights and the power meter. The fighting scenes by the way 
 are really exaggerated, but I personally like their style. As for graphics, it's just stunning 
 considering it can run on my sucky comp. The details are great and the lighting (or lack thereof) 
 is excellent. It's so good that at times it gives you the impression that something can jump at 
 you at any moment when the lights go out. Try using the first person view and you'll know what 
 I mean.
  It's no Silent Hill, but I've had my fill of zombies already so I like this game. If you can't 
 decide, try the demo first.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: islamthebest
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  great game , the story is great u will love it alot of new things in the 1st time in any game as 
 u can choose all the game from begining to end
  goog graphics not excellent excellent fighting scenes and excellent sound effects
  new technics 
 u will see for the 1st time in any game which makes it unique game
  the good : revolutionary game in every thing
  the bad : sometimes the game play is very stupid 
 ass pressing on the keyboard alot of times very fast
  in general 1 of the best games ever made play it and then say ur opinion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hakensou
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 6:58 am PT
Review:  Well, here we have an odd but very interesting and immersive game.
  The concept behind this game is kind of a movie directing and acting at the same time, with some 
 pumping action sprinkled on top...
  The game story is cool, catching and very, very immersive. You start the game with a bloody scene 
 in wich, one of your main characters slashes up a Jonh Doe in a public restroom, for no aparent 
 reason other than the fact that he seems derranged and possessed. A very nice start to a curious 
 yet odd story line that will involve you completely in this game.
  You control more than one character in this game, and in some points you can even change between 
 characters and choose wich scene/character you shall first complete, giving the game a sense of 
 scene by scene play, just like a movie director's job would. Along with the story line, you'll 
 get some fast paced action, motioned by a gamepad control set (yes you do need a gamepad to fully 
 enjoy the game) . A double stick gamepad (like the playstation's gamepad) is in order so that you 
 can correctly and easily learn and control the action scenes. The action control set is based on 
 a a sort of double set of crosses where each of the four directions on each cross has a color (the 
 colors match between crosses i. e. left is blue in both crosses, yellow is right in both crosses) . 
 So all you have to do is match the color on the screen to the dirrection you push or pull the stick, 
 and voil&aacute;, the action moves on... Thing is the harder you play the game, the more complex 
 the sets of colors get. This control method is used throughout the game to do the most diversified 
 actions, ranging from dancin' to playin' the guitar, to fleein' from the police. Very good I thought!
 
  Also there's another great point in this game... Since the game is a movie that you're sort of 
 directing, you have to control both the killer... and the cops in charge of the murder case... 
 Awesome moments as you pit your skills to both evade the police and at the same time catch th guy 
 who did it.
  Plus, the game also offers a kind of misterious setting with Evil being of diabolical and hellish 
 like origin.... Kinda like Constantine and the whole God vs Devil with human demons in the mix.
 
  All in all a very good game that deserves the 8 score completely.
  Two issues that don't live up to the game... The graphics... should've of paid more attention to 
 that part... and the cameras kinda suck...
  Still, a game worth playing nevertheless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikael_uddenhed
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  I played through this game twice and thought it was a really great game.
  
  Good: Indepth characters, breathtaking challanges, great story and music.
  
  Bad: The endings, 
 graphics and lack of versatility. Short game time.
  
  The game starts of rather fast paced and if you haven't gone through the tutorial then you're pretty 
 screwed. Also you should redefine the keys because the standard setup is pretty worthless.
  As you get further along the story you will become pretty engaged in it as though you are the main 
 character and basicly that's what makes a good game.
  The music is also an extraordinary perfect match because it suits the story and gameplay perfectly.
 
  What I am missing though is interactive fighting scenes as the button pressing is suitable for 
 certain tasks but absolutly not for every fighting scene in a game.
  
  Overall it's a really enjoyable game but it's not up for repeat more then maybe once.
  
  Score 
 **/10
  
  Music: 10
  Graphics: 6
  Gameplay: 8
  Controls: 10/10 (after self configuration)
  
  Overall: 8,5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CSphoenix
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Fahrenheit is a game that takes u to another world.
  not becuz of Graphics or Textures.
  but cuz of both Story Line &amp; Sounds.
  Story Line is so deep &amp; affective on the gamer.
 
  cuz u feel urself in the game &amp; so u think abt it, every single moment.
  but unfortunately it has a rushed ending.. though it has 3 endings.
  but fighting against Cyborg 
 &amp; Oracle, it's not wt u have to expect from such a game.
  another thing abt the game ts the presence of Cyborg.
  even in the end, i cldn't blv i was fighting 
 a clan of AI.
  i didn't like this part of story.
  u get sucked in the story when u find out it's abt Mayan civilization.
  but u can't find any 
 explanations for the presence of AI clan &amp; Cyborg.
  anyway, it's a game i suggest for gamers who like Adventure/Riddle/Puzzle games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiger_the_best
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2007 2:53 am PT
Review:  When was the last time you actually played a game where you cared about what happened to the characters, 
 where you actually wanted to find out what happens next? If you're sick of generic shooters and 
 reflex based games where high scores and headshots rule supreme, you'll definitely find solace 
 in Quantic Dream's Indigo Prophecy. If you have a favorite chair or comfortable couch, this is 
 the perfect game to sit down and play while wrapped in a gigantic, fluffy blanket and sipping hot 
 cocoa with mini-marshmallows.
  
  Right off the bat, you'll discover Indigo Prophecy to be a dark, brooding experience, as the opening 
 sequence is definitely disturbing. Set in snow-covered New York City, the game continues to get 
 darker as you progress and more sinister facts are revealed. Perhaps the most telling feature of 
 how grim the game can get is the character mood gauge, which, when completely full, says your character 
 is in a neutral state, whereas at empty your character is wrecked. In between are varying shades 
 of depression. Despite the sometimes dismal, gripping nature of the storyline and atmosphere, it 
 still remains an entirely engaging experience.
  
  It's very apparent that the team at Quantic Dream really cared about making this game when I played 
 through the introductory tutorial. Here, you're given a brief introduction into the game's action 
 mechanics and general interface by a virtual representation of the game's writer and director, 
 David Cage. You'll control a dummy model and perform a series of actions as you move around a mock 
 movie stage. This stage setting is representative of the cinematic nature of the entire game; from 
 the intricate, slow-motion action sequences to the picture-in-picture and split screen instances 
 that advances the plot and conveys simultaneous action.
  
  As a videogame trying to act like a movie, Indigo Prophecy really succeeds. In the game, you get 
 to see sides of your three main characters you would never really expect to see outside of a theatre. 
 You'll wake up, drink milk, lift weights, play basketball, dance with your girlfriend, play guitar, 
 get dressed, wash your hands; the list goes on and on. You control almost every decision your character 
 will make, right down to throwing dirty clothing in the dryer. While these details may turn some 
 off, also know there are intricate twitch action sequences that play out like a Simon Says memory 
 game on steroids. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ocelotpoo
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  I Downloaded Indigo Prophecy Directors Cut (the AO rated international version) from Direct 2 Drive 
 and I was stuck to my computer for the 2 days that it took me to beat the game. The unbelievably 
 simple interface in conjunction with the engrossing storyline and exciting action sequences kept 
 the game rolling at a perfectly smooth pace. The player controls 4 characters at different times 
 throughout the game. You control the possessed Lucas Kane, two detectives investigating a murder 
 involving Lucas, and for brief periods, Lucas' brother Marcus. Each character has a different, 
 well developed back story and a variety of interesting tasks and abilities. The changes between 
 characters advance the story from multiple view points, slowly unavailing the mystery. Everything 
 about the game is carefully crafted, it has excellent scenery, good graphics and atmosphere, and 
 a fitting soundtrack using real-world songs. Overall, the game was very impressive, even for my 
 first play-through in 2007. If you have any desire at all to play an adventure game, do yourself 
 a favor and play this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpaceAlex
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Indigo Prophecy's (aka Fahrenheit outside US) strong point is it's story, which is what most people 
 usually expect to encounter in advanture games. The excellent opening cut-scene makes you fall 
 in love with the game immediately, and that love doesn't go away until the very end of the game. 
 Although there's nothing wrong with the actual ending, i got a strange feeling, when the game ended, 
 that it shouldn't end so soon. To explain better; the first 70% of the game made perfect sense, 
 but the last 30% happened too fast. But despite that, the game doesn't leave many questions unasnwered, 
 and overall the storyline is excellent. I mean how many times are you put into a role of a murderer 
 and two detectives. That's right, you can control all of the main characters in the game. Although 
 Lucas (aka the murderer ) appears to be the main focus of the game, Carla (one of the detectives) 
 is given no less thought. You can actually use her to end the game, if you fail with Lucas (which 
 is pretty difficult to do) . Tyler (second detective) doesn't appear to be very importnant to the 
 game's main plot, but he is still an interesting character.
  
  Gameplay wise, the controls take some time to get used to (the game was obiously meant to be played 
 with a controller) , but it shouldn't take too long to master. .
  
  Graphically, the game looks pretty good. It's no HL2 or anything like that, but it looks good enough 
 not to be distracting (note that there is absolutley no way to apply widescreen resolutions in 
 this game) . The loading time are very short, and the game should run smoothly even on aging PC's.
 
  
  The sound effects are mostly excellent. The quality could be better (it almost sounds mono sometimes) 
 though. The voice acting is brilliant. All of the main characters, as well as other NPC's, are 
 all voiced by professional actors (at least that's the impression i got when i heared them speak) , 
 and truly add to realism and immersion. The music is also amazing. I found myself listening to 
 some of the tracks even after completing the game.
  
  To end this review, i recommend this game to everyone, but those who want more action than talk, 
 because this game is mainly about the story, just like most (if not all) adventure games are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matias1_G
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 11, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  Comparing this game to another would be to shame it, offering smooth controls, suspenseful but 
 not terrifying, and a mix between adventure and action makes Indigo Prophecy (Fahrenheit) unique 
 and amazing. The game is created to resemble a movie, but has it really accomplished this new effect? 
 Well, yes, yes it has. The only downside is that much like a movie the environments do not let 
 you go where you are not supposed to be most of the time and adventuring is severely limited.
 
  
  Walking and interacting with the environment is just as easy to do with a keyboard as many are 
 familiar to doing as it is with the mouse. The rich sceneries and suspenseful atmosphere make this 
 game a thriller unlike any other. Should you want to pause the game (esc by default) you will see 
 a menu come up with movie like controls, these additions, though seemingly useless, just enhance 
 the home theatre effect.
  
  You may have been wondering why I referred to the game as Fahrenheit, if not then you already know 
 what Im going to say. When the game was brought to the U. S. there were issues of the adult content 
 in the game (sexual interactions and nude scenes) so the Indigo Prophecy version had this content 
 cut out. Now Im not telling you this to convince you to buy one or the other, it is a mere statement 
 of fact that should be noted if you are reading this from a country other than the U. S. or wish 
 to play the game in its intended entirety.
  
  I would say that if you like playing adventure games such as The Longest Journey (or its sequel 
 Dream Fall) then this game is certain to keep you entertained, though the puzzles are not are hard 
 and there is far less treasure hunting in vast environments. One thing that should be noted is 
 the creators ingenuity in adding the most multiple endings in a game Ive ever encountered, because 
 every time you fail the game will not say that what you did is wrong, it will tell you that that 
 is how the story went. Also, in addition the true endings are also available in multiple flavors 
 for story variety. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadyJade
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  I've always been a big fan of first person shooters and real time strategy games, both of which 
 are plentiful in today's game market. If we looked at a list of my favourite games, it wouldn't 
 take long for titles such as Halo or Total Annihilation to crop up. Never did I imagine that Indigo 
 Prophecy would find a place on my list. Who would have thought that an adventure game could break 
 through into a market dominated by first person shooters and RTS games? It is an incredible feat 
 for the Quantic Dream development team, and it is my hope that we see a sequel to this game.
  
  The first thing that needs to be said is that Indigo Prophecy is not your typical video game. 
 If you are looking for a fast-paced and action packed game, you might want to search elsewhere. 
 The game does have its intense moments, but on the whole it's a lot more about the story than bullets 
 flying through the air. The game takes place in New York City in the middle of winter. One of the 
 main characters, Lucas Kane, commits a murder in a late-night diner restroom. Amazingly, Lucas 
 only realized what he had done after waking up from a trance. Most of the game revolves around 
 Lucas trying to avoid getting caught by the police, and at the same time trying to prove his innocence.
 
  
  The first thing that I noticed when I started playing the game is that the storyline progresses 
 more like a movie than a game. The highlight of Indigo Prophecy is definitely the plot, and my 
 favourable review of this title really comes down to this. While you control what your character 
 does in any given situation, one chapter of the story will always lead to the next with only slight 
 changes in the plot. For example, you might never find the murder weapon, but you still find out 
 who killed the victim. There are three main characters that you will control throughout the game. 
 At the outset, you take control of Lucas Kane, a man who committed a murder with no excuse other 
 than the fact he allegedly wasn't in control of his body at the time. Lucas has a brother named 
 Markus whom you will also interact with at different times during the story. Even as a priest, 
 Markus has trouble believing everything Lucas has told him. This relationship between the brothers 
 leads to some interesting plot developments, but I'll leave that for you to discover.
  
  The other two characters that you will be able to use are the two detectives assigned to the homicide 
 case dealing with Lucas's unfortunate encounter with a patron in a diner restroom. Carla Valenti 
 is a detective who seems to always maintain her calm and collected composure. Her partner, Tyler 
 Miles, originally lived on the streets of New York before deciding to join the police force. Tyler 
 provides a lot of unintentional comic relief to the story  who ever heard of playing a game of 
 one-on-one basketball in the snow? I sure haven't, but it's pretty funny to watch.
  
  One of downsides to Indigo Prophecy is that the graphics are not as great as they could be. When 
 the camera zooms in for a close up of Carla on the phone, or Lucas pouring a glass of gin, or Tyler 
 making out with his girlfriend, this issue becomes fairly obvious. To be honest, I didn't really 
 notice this early on in the game. It was only later on when the developers really tried to do a 
 lot of character development and interactions that the graphic detail  or lack thereof  really 
 started to show its true colours (no pun intended) . In spite of this, the character models are 
 generally well done overall, with each character having his or her touches that make them unique. 
 As a side note, Indigo Prophecy put a new name on my roster of favourite female video game characters. 
 In my opinion they did an amazing job with Carla and should be given a gold star. Okay, make that 
 five gold stars. The voiceovers, the music score, and overall audio in the game deserve a standing 
 ovation. The voiceovers for Lucas, Carla, and Tyler are especially well done, and are only complimented 
 by the well-written scripts. The musical score is mostly songs performed by rock band Theory of 
 a Deadman, but also features some other mainstream artists. All of the music in the game is extremely 
 well suited to each situation. The background music is particularly well done in the game's action 
 sequences and really creates a sense of desperation and anxiety.
  
  One of the main grievances that I had with the game was that the keyboard controls were a little 
 difficult to master when a character is in an action sequence. You never actually control any of 
 the action directly, but you do affect the outcome by using the keyboard. Quantic Dream's innovative 
 controls for action sequences, which essentially involves reacting quickly to colour cues on circles 
 representing the cardinal directions, can prove quite challenging. This grows especially frustrating 
 later in the game, where reaction time is reduced significantly. The other unique component of 
 an action sequence is when your character has to perform some sort of physically challenging task, 
 such as balancing on a beam, or trying to gain enough speed to jump a wide gap. In such cases you 
 need to tap the left and right arrows alternatively as quickly possible in order to pass the challenge. 
 Overall the control scheme is a cool feature that can sometimes prove frustrating. However, it 
 is possible to use a gamepad instead of the mouse/keyboard combination, which may ease the burden 
 a bit.
  
  Indigo Prophecy is a game that I did not expect to like as much as I did. I guess this is because 
 I initially geared all of my expectations toward the norm of today's typical game. That said, you 
 will probably be disappointed if you expect freedom of movement and expansive levels. As I stated 
 earlier, Indigo Prophecy plays much like a movie where the main challenge is to get from beginning 
 to end. The fun lies in uncovering the story, not killing anything that moves. It's a short game, 
 easily finished in about 10 hours, but the rich story makes it worth every minute. At the end, 
 I did wish that the conclusion was a bit more, well, conclusive. Instead of tying loose ends, the 
 writers left it open to many possibilities, thus leaving room for a sequel. Indigo Prophecy is 
 definitely worth playing, just for the experience in itself. In fact, I wouldn't be surprised if 
 I cued up this game six months from now, just to play through it all over again  the story really 
 was that good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shre123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  Indigo Prophecy is not much of a game as it is an experience. The flexible story line with fast 
 paced action and mysteries upon mysteries gives it an other worldly feeling. The only downside 
 to the game play it is that there is too much Simon says game play , where you repeat whatever 
 it says. Aside from that it is a very interesting and immersive game. The best thing about the 
 game is that it has multiple playable characters. You play both sides of the law, the suspect and 
 the detectives who are after him. And sometimes you fo to flashbacks to Lucas'. the suspects, young 
 life. You can also cause your character to break down if you are not careful which adds the difficulty 
 and great challenge of this game. I personally recommend this to anyone because if one aspect pisses 
 you off, i guarantee it will not be the storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loki_rj
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  I don't believe the 'modern masterpiece' hype of this game. Surely, the film-like atmosphere and 
 engaging characters, not to mention the INITIAL plot elements have all the makings of a great game. 
 You're absolutely entrapped to find out just what the hell is going on with Lucas Kane. I mean, 
 he pretty much wakes up to find he's killed someone... What follows is a deeply rich story that 
 leaves you just on the edge of a psychological abyss. Really, on that point you catch yourself 
 speaking: Man, whoever wrote the script for this game is a genius... I wonder what'll happen next. 
 
  
  After a few hours of gameplay, you may picture the following image on your head:
  
  Beginning of mental image:
  
  Game producer #1: Man, we're really making a killer story, aren't 
 we?
  
  Game producer #2: Yeah... We've got a script worth at least another twenty hours of gameplay....
 
  
  Knock on the door.
  
  Producer's assistant: Guys... Bad news... The budget's up. We've got no money left.
  
  GP#1: 
 What? - Glances into trashcan - What's this? 'The Matrix - Rejected script'... You're thinking 
 what I'm thinking?
  
  GP#1 and #2: Plot twist!
  
  End of mental image.
  
  The visuals impress, the controls keep it simple and effective, the sound effects are absolutely 
 stunning, both when in comes to soundtrack and to environmental effects. However, the plot, something 
 that, to me, promised to be the greatest adventure plot since Gabriel Knight the Beast Within, 
 ends up being confusing and rather disappointing. Instead of sticking to the original elements, 
 the producers used so many plot twists, that it comes to a point, after each 'revealing parts', 
 that you end up more confused than enlightened. Some elements actually made me speak out loud: 
 What the... 
  
  To put it briefly: Every element of the game is good. Visuals, sound, control... The plot however, 
 irritated me. It isn't bad, far from it. But it promised to be an amazing story, that the game 
 producers diverted from the original path so much that it just didn't fit the original concept. 
 Forget the occult feeling in the beginning. The last hour or so of the game feels like a whole 
 new plot, that you've just begun to be brought into. Unfortunately, the 'just begun' feeling lasts 
 well over Indigo Prophecy's ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidy333
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 11, 2007 12:29 am PT
Review:  Indigo Prophecy was an amazing adventure game with a bit of roleplaying elements mixed in it. The 
 game's innvotaion lies in the fact that you can influence the directions of plot. Many games promise 
 that user's choice will affect the plot but wont keep up. Still Indigo Prophecy does it in style. 
 In this you play as many characters influencing the story. This was a game with amazing voice acting 
 and atmosphere that's suitable for the mood created by game. Lucas though the main character in 
 the game, you feel every bit of his pains, anger and joy. You will be completely immersed in the 
 game with new gameplay mechanics. Though when you are playing with keyboard it leaves a little 
 bit unsatisfaction in mind. But With its immersing Storyline, amazing graphics, Solid voice acting 
 and New gameplay mechanics gives the adventure genre a new color. This was a game that you should 
 definetly play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grillo87
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 5, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  This game I considered like a modern masterpiece, really, I have a lot of years waiting for a really 
 good game, like this one, the story is amazing, somethings of Matrix, the gameplay wonderful, always 
 that you had a gamepad like I, the music is perfect, the environment, the characters, I mean, I 
 think that this game is a masterpiece like there aren&acute; t in these days.
  I&acute; m completely excited with this game, because you can note it, that it was carefully developed, 
 because it&acute; s so original in any way that you can re-play it and you never get bored like 
 I do, the only bad thing that you can say this game have is that the difficulty is very low, but 
 that&acute; s because this game isn&acute; t made to be a typically adventure game, this game is 
 to feel that you are inside a thriller movie, that&acute; s way the reason for me to be very short, 
 sadly, but anyway the hours that you spend playing it, you will get completely immerse, I definitely 
 recommend you this game is awesome.
  I know that there are so few possibles options for this to happen but, I would like to see a sequel, 
 I guess I would have to wait for the next upcoming tittle of the company. Heavy Rain, that seems 
 to be very ambitious too, let&acute; s see only the time will tell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t3t3t3
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 1, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  9 of 10 The plot and the movie like gameplay is the BEST i've ever experienced brings in real amosphere. 
 The action squences by pressing buttons should feel pretty stupid but it turns out quite fun. You 
 walk like you an idiot.
  Graphics:
  6 of 10 the enviroments are quite nice but the characters looks like shapes with colours on them.
 
  Sound:
  Voice actting is done very well and background is done just as well.
  Value:
  7 of 10 not the most worth your time ad money game ever but it's ok.
  Comments:
  Get it and 
 if you'll like to explorer the open ended game play otherwise you'll get bored of playing it through 
 once or less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Igac89
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 1, 2007 7:00 am PT
Review:  This is an awesome game! Let me start off with the graphics. They are very good, the game is optimized 
 in the best way so people with weaker machines can play it even on maximum graphics... The sound 
 is also very good and keeps up with the action. Gameplay is TOTALY funnn you just get so into the 
 game its amazing.... This game is so much better in the europian version, because it is not censored 
 at all. TOTALY RECOMENDED!!!!
  
  This is an awesome game! Let me start off with the graphics. They are very good, the game is optimized 
 in the best way so people with weaker machines can play it even on maximum graphics... The sound 
 is also very good and keeps up with the action. Gameplay is TOTALY funnn you just get so into the 
 game its amazing.... This game is so much better in the europian version, because it is not censored 
 at all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogu1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 7:38 am PT
Review:  this is one of the most original games that i have played to date. It has a one of a kind is the 
 gameplay, being an interactive movie you really feel like you the main character. It captivates 
 you and makes you care deeply about your character. In other games you play as only one person 
 and you try to do what's best for that individual but in fahrenheit you control multiple characters 
 and you are thrown in a big dilemma because if you help one you might hurt the other but you want 
 to help everyone fulfil their goals ( good thing near the end they all help each other, their goal 
 being the same... save the world) ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: V1RuS0fL1fE
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 8, 2007 10:52 pm PT
Review:  This game gets an 8.1, and most would say that that's a good enough score for any game of this 
 level. But to put it frankly, this game would've had the potential to kick the a** of almost all 
 PC games if it wasn't for the story ending so abruptly.
  
  Graphically, you can't say much. I bet it would run nice enough on my old Pentium 4 1.7Ghz from 
 6 years ago. Nothing flashy about it. The one intriguing part about this game is its cut-scenes 
 and the amazing motion-capture. The characters move with great detail, but only lacking in the 
 lip-sync department.
  
  The soundtrack to this game is absolutely stunning. A full on orchestrated take on every scene 
 creates the perfect mood made to suit it. It's extremely dark and atmospheric, and even somewhat 
 depressing. To back this up are several songs from known artists like Theory of a Dead Man and 
 astounding voice-acting.
  
  Gameplay-wise, it's deceptively simple. There's a 'Simon Says' mini-game gamers must partake to 
 go through adrenaline-rushing scenes to get your character through a near-death situation. Yes, 
 it's fairly easy if you have decent enough reflexes, but it's just enough to keep the eyes on what's 
 going on behind it and it's simplicity tells gamers that the lack of gameplay is due to the fact 
 that the story is much more important.
  Throughout the game, players must also go through dialogue and interact with NPCs. The producer 
 claims that every action you take will have it's consequences, and the story would change as it 
 goes along. Simple mouse gestures would carry the story all the way through to the end, and again, 
 it's simplicity is deceptive. Don't let it fool you. The story is where it's at.
  
  The story starts off with a bang and never stops until the very end. You would be on the edge of 
 your seat for every moment that passes and it will keep you glued to the computer for hours. The 
 story is engaging, but it's far too short. It's as if Quantic Dream pulled the 2nd-half of the 
 middle of the story away, and the ending was wrapped far too quickly. Despite the fact that this 
 game has been under development for a while, I believe a lot more could've been done to make this 
 game one of the Top Ranking games of absolute all time -- for the simple gamer to the hardcore alike.
 
  
  If the producers would have cut the game into an episodic series like Half-Life, they would keep 
 gamers begging for more as the story unravels. Unfortunately, the core part of this game was the 
 story, and it's been cut short. But not to worry. It's already one of my all-time favourites, and 
 I'm already recommending it to my friends. If you're even the slight bit curious, and a LITTLE 
 tempted to try this game if you haven't, then by all means... GO. Just go find the game and give 
 it a shot. It's immersive story and simple gameplay can guarantee that you won't be forgetting 
 about it for a very long while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DennisChu22
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 7, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Okay, think of Max Payne and The Matrix. Then smash the two together and the result is basically 
 Indigo Prophecy. I have to say that I thoroughly enjoyed this fantastic game (although I have to 
 say it was more of a cinematic experience than anything) . Not just an adventure game, Indigo Prophecy 
 was definitely a Choose-Your-Own-Adventure lovers dream. Each action that you make in the game 
 has a direct effect on something else later on. Of course, there are other elements that make Indigo 
 Prophecy such an amazing game to play.
  
  Playing Indigo Prophecy was like watching a movie. The game utilized different camera angles for 
 specific scenes to highlight more dramatic events and bring an even more authentic cinematic quality 
 to the game. The storyline is very intriguing; it was definitely one of the main reasons that kept 
 me at the computer playing: you just want to know what happens next. There is no clearly defined 
 protagonist as you go through the beginning of the game; you play through two different sides: 
 Lucas Kane, the man who was just at the wrong place at the wrong time, and Carla Valenti and Tyler 
 Miles, the two detectives who are hunting down Kane. It is interesting when you are playing as 
 both sides, knowing almost all of the details of whats happening, so it really gets interesting 
 when the two sides meet each other for the first time during a police questioning.
  
  Aside from that, Indigo Prophecy employs a technique called Interactive Dramatic Entertainment, 
 which basically puts all of the actions of the character into the hands of the player. For example, 
 in Kanes apartment following his return from the scene of the murder, he wakes up to find bloody 
 bedsheets and his pile of bloody clothing lying on the floor. All of a sudden, the police show 
 up knocking on his apartment door. Now, a time limit kicks in before the police enter the apartment 
 with force, and you must take action to hide the items that would lead to high levels of suspicion. 
 If you successfully hide the bloodied items in time, the police will come into the apartment and 
 see that nothing is wrong. If you fail, however, the officer will most likely take you to the station 
 for further questioning.
  
  I have to admit, however, that Im rather disappointed by the graphics of the game. Some things 
 are still rather blocky, such as the characters fingers or the rounded-end of shoes. Though the 
 textures are detailed, even with settings maxed out the environment isnt as completely realistic 
 as Id like it to be. But even if the graphics are a bit lacking, the rock-solid and intricate 
 storyline does well to make up for it. The voice acting for the game is pretty solid. Traces of 
 emotion can certainly be heard in the characters voices, and the musical score that accompanies 
 several of the action sequences is impressive and fits the situations very well. A lot of the scripted 
 dialogue is superb; conversations feel like they are fluent and organized, not just a thrown-together 
 mess.
  
  The replay value of the game isnt too high for me, though. Like I mentioned above, the main driving 
 force for me to play the game further was to discover what happens next. Now that I know the entire 
 storyline, there is really no reason for me to go back and play the game over again. But even so, 
 the overall experience playing the game the first time through was fantastic. I walked away impressed 
 at the true sense of adventure that felt when I finally finished the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukebrincat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 1, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  well, Indigo Prophecy or Fahrenheit, is a very addictive game, the unusual sory line is so compelling 
 and breath taking, honestly i prefer if it was just a movie rather than a game XD lol... jokes 
 apart, the most enthusiastic part of the game is YOU choose what happens (up to some limitations) 
 and the ending could have more than one alternatives. stroctly speaking if you are gamer who likes 
 to play games and get hold of some action packed game... in my opinion, this is not a game for 
 you XD lol but otherwise if you are a CSI, X-Files or Thriller/Fanasy fan, this might give you 
 some great hours of thrilling fun, Beware, once you eneter Fahrenheit's world it's difficult to 
 leave without completeing the story... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fateproducer
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 27, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Frankly speaking when I started playing this game I was little exited. However in the course of 
 playing I was wondering when I'm going to finish. I was little bored with it but despite everything 
 I finally get it done... been there done that in other words.
  Anyway... the only thing that makes this game original is its whole idea. Button pressing and things 
 like that. However I don't get it... how come that you sniff around trying to find yourself and 
 escape from police being yourself. It's like to open and to close door at the same time. I don't 
 enjoy playing sci-fi games and INDIGO PROPHECY is being honest one of them... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taraboi1
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 20, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  The fun part of this game is that it lets you to do what you want just like you're making a movie 
 and you're the director, you can choose what the characters will say, do, etc. I personally couldn't 
 get away from this game the first month i played it, it was like I was stuck to it, it makes you 
 dependent of it, everything is very good, the characters are very life-like, memorable and excellent 
 voice-acting. It also features a GREAT soundtrack. I recommend this game from the bottom of my 
 heart. :) P. S: Even if you don't like thrillers you should still try it :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 5.7
Date: Apr 21, 2007 11:10 pm PT
Review:  I understand fully that making a new game can be as challenging as the developers want it to be. 
 Developers' ambitions for making a game from a new perspective often present us with awesome materials 
 and I would be the last person to discourage developers to be ambitious. However there are times 
 when this ambition ends up with awful, not awesome, results because of some minor details. Indigo 
 Prophecy is just one of them.
  Gamers like me like to play a game that can be enjoyed right from the beginning. That demands a 
 dramatic game opening. Indigo Prophecy has done that quite nicely. In fact the opening is one of 
 the most intriguing one I have ever come across.
  The great part of this game is this adventure game is set in a perfect 3D environment. You can 
 move around the corners freely unlike most adventure games -- though the camera setting is really 
 a head spinner (I hate this kind of camera setting, which is obviously an attempted show off -- 
 the developers want the gamers to see the hero's face. I hate it, but I can live with it) . But 
 I stumbled right at the beginning when I started the action. What the hell -- the keyboard controls 
 are all topsy-turvy. The action commands are as bizarre as they can get -- I mean toggle left and 
 right buttons to gather action momentum -- or hold mouse button all the way to open a door? Why? 
 Why does a developer ever want to reinvent a well-established simple action and make itself a game 
 (to me opening a door was a surprisingly tricky job in this game) . Why can't the developers agree 
 on keeping the basic control sets on a common premise? The heart of the game is not the controls -- 
 its the presentation, storyline and the action sequences that make a game what it is. A control 
 defines how smoothly and fast a gamer gets to play it. If it is bad, no matter how good the storyline, 
 presentation or action sequences are -- the gamer will abandon the game.
  So after the initial hitch, I went back to tutorial and tried completing it. Believe me it made 
 me wanna puke. There is one tutorial that demands that you quickly dodge an approaching vehicle -- 
 and nothing seemed to be working while trying out that part. And this did not make sense. This 
 is a tutorial.
  I am sure there are people with plenty of time to complete this tutorial and move on into the game. 
 But I am not one of them. This game sucks as long as the control sets go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reece_Boosh
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 15, 2007 3:04 pm PT
Review:  I'm dividing this review into two parts:
  
  Spoiler free- You take control over a trio of characters just after a very odd, supernatural murder 
 takes place. You control the murderer, and the two police officers who investigate the case. Fantastically, 
 the actions you make with one character affects the others. If you hide clues from the cops, and 
 do not find the clues when you play as them later, the Lucinator (or Lucas as he is called in the 
 game) may not get locked up quite so soon. In the right hands, the game is very cinematic, with 
 the camera jumping from dramatic location to dramatic location, and the onscreen characters acting 
 juts like actors. It feels rather marvellous, sitting in your director's chair, ordering the cast 
 and crew about having no idea of where the script is or where it will take you... The feeling of 
 control is enhanced further by the nature of play. Admittedly, you are restricted in what you can 
 do, but the sheer combination of variables means the game should be highly replay able. Should 
 be... There is a great wealth of dialogue, that is all fantastically spoken and acted, and a huge 
 number of approaches to the challenges the game throws up. But unfortunately, the experience is 
 blighted by a series of action sequences. First time round, these are often fun, requiring you 
 to press directional keys (or analogues) in directions prompted on-screen for the character to 
 succeed. However, on replaying these can become very repetitive, and discourage replaying massively, 
 which is a great shame considering the quality of the game in hand.
  
  Spoiler Full- Lets get one thing straight... what starts out as a moving, well paced and extremely 
 involving story descends into fantasy fight sequences worthy of the Matrix or even Dragon Ball 
 Z. This would be fine... in another game. Here it feels horribly out of context as you send energy 
 bolts at physical manifestations of cyberspace. Whats more, half of the story takes place in the 
 last half-hour of gameplay. Suddenly a new organization appears made up of A. I - which you never 
 see - and you are saved by a super secret, justice loving, human saving bunch of ageing tramps... 
 That's right. Some Hobos... Yeah...
  
  Summing up (no spoilers) - This could have been amazing. Its still good, but its no where near the 
 game it suggests it is at the beginning. Still, when the screen closes in, and the you watch the 
 final sequence from the distant land of three months later, you'll feel a pang of disappointment 
 that the experience is over... And the health meter is fan-dabby-dosie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andruxandd
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2007 5:21 am PT
Review:  This game... this game... i can believe my eyes and my ears! Trailers and images are nothing, but 
 when begin to play this game all others games you've been played untill now look like a child-play... I've 
 finish it in 3days about 3 hours. In this time feel like never stop it to play. I loved INDIGO PROPHECY 
 and is so revolutionary and amazing and... all what i can say is not enough, words are not enough 
 to describe.
  This cinematic gameplay put this game in a position like never before. The story is not just Lucas 
 Kane's story, is your story and is like you are Lucas Kane and try to run and escape from what 
 is wrong in your world... and the end is so great !
  A great experience , this game let you play a Movie and is nothing wrong with this afirmation. There 
 is no other game like this and i wonder if I. P. is a game... Such a game appear only once i think... i 
 don't want to say once in the life, i refused to say that, to believe that...
  All respect for Quantic Dream, ATARI and all who make this game for us! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The game kicks off with an eerie murder scene. The killer, one Lucas Kane, is in the 
 bathroom of a friendly little downtown diner. He seems to be in a trance, and he's got a steak 
 knife  and before he knows it, he's stabbing a poor old man who was just attempting to relieve 
 himself. After the grisly murder, Lucas hops up and can't believe his eyes; it's as if he was possessed 
 the whole time. Now you have to choose what to do, you could run out imediatly or you could take 
 the time to clean up the blood and hide the body. It's pretty much an open ended adventure game 
 which has diffrent outcome with every action you take. In the game you control not only the killer 
 Lucas Kane, but also the police detectives Carla and Tyler. This means that throughout the game 
 you can choose which scenes/parts to play first, which characters to continue with first, and the 
 ability to tackle the game from both sides - killer and police. The game does an excellent job 
 in getting you involved in the plot. Since you play both Lucas and the detectives investigating 
 the murder, you feel the sense of urgency as you struggle to put all the puzzle pieces together 
 of each side. The fact that you are have to make a decision, just makes the game that much better. 
 And of course, like in real life, certain choices come with consequences. Make a wrong decision 
 and you are screwed. Indigo Prophecy contains a unique mental health meter which can have profound 
 results on each character you play. The controls are good, they are kinda like the resident evil 
 controls and you have to choose your actions from a task bar fromthe top of the screen. You'll 
 often have to perform long strings of commands while the action unfolds onscreen  while it can 
 become a little tedious, it keeps things interesting, and doesn't happen all too often.
  
  Gaphics: The graphics are quite nice and it really gives you a cinamatic feel while playing the 
 game. Characters are well modeled and textured, capable of expressing much emotion in their faces 
 and gestures; the animation is superb. Everything is crisp and smooth and everything runs smoothly.
 
  
  Sound: The soundtrack is very good. It really sets the mood during the diffrent situations in the 
 game, from the creepy parts of the game to the tention that is being built up. Also the voice acting 
 is well done aswell. Value: Whats special about this game is the game lets you do a whole bunch 
 of diffrent things, so the plot alters at certain decisions and you'll want to go back and check 
 out different scenarios. So you can play this game over a number of times which will keep you entertained 
 for a while.
  
  All in all this is an amazing game, My only complaint is that the game is too short. The completion 
 time is just over 10-12 hours and might be even shortere once you know what to do and how the story 
 goes, which makes for a very long movie or a relatively short game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djane25
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 18, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  I have seen this game through this site before but have ignored it... Then, according to the review 
 given by my fellow members, I became curious and tried to borrow the game from my friend. Really, 
 there were be a lot of reactions from the review of the member, that is according to the type of 
 game everybody liked. Well, for me, this game is awesome! There could have only less action, but 
 there's a lot of challenges, especially the sequences. There's also some puzzle that you as a player 
 has to react, as if the scene is actual. You will control the outcome of the game, and that's very 
 exciting about it. If you miss some, you would never see the full feature of the game. Also, the 
 story of the game is very unique. You'll become addictive of what would come next after...
  This game is for mature only! There's some sex scene in the game. The only difficult task that 
 you have to do is master the control sequences and speed in pressing the controls for the Left-Right 
 (L-R) meter challenge. You have to use your head for every conversation, so that the health of 
 your character would be in good condition...^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackcro55
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 13, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Well, after dying repeatedly trying to cross a snowy beam, I'm ready to pound the crap out of the 
 developer.
  
  This is such a fantastic game, story and concept that I'm really disappointed by the amount and 
 method that the player is required to interact with the game during the action sequences. I like 
 to go through my games enjoying the atmosphere, environment and story created by the designers. 
 However in Indigo Prophecy you are required to press keys to dodge flying objects , perform stunts, 
 walk across a beam and not fall off, walk across a ledge and not fall off, climb a pipe and not 
 fall off and much more. As a result, you are focusing on the display that quickly flashes which 
 key or mouse motion you must make to progress to the next second or interaction or whatever. You 
 never really get to just watch the action sequences - very annoying and some of the required key 
 inputs are maddeningly very difficult for no reason while others are really easy.
  
  I really enjoyed playing multiple characters and getting their different takes on the same scenario 
 especially when the lead detective and the lead suspect are int eh same room: you never know who 
 actually should come out ahead and with your aim being to make both happy, it's a thin line to 
 walk and the outcome is unknown.
  
  So overall I recommend the game but you WILL be frustrated at several points in the game.
  --------------------
 
  Just finished. Very glad to have played it and will go back and try to improve on my performance 
 in some areas and to explore alternate conversations and actions.
  
  At the end, if you cash in your bonus points (or through the game) , you can watch or replay the 
 action sequences independent of the game games. So I finally got to see the action sequences that 
 I had been busy key stroking through.
  
  Still feel that in some situations, the amount of interaction was excessive compared to others 
 - so an uneven implementation in interaction and difficulty 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deukalion-
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  When I first ran the tutorial of this game and heard the director tell me how the game works I 
 was really ambitious to get on with it. You begin playing the man framed for a murder - knowing 
 you didn't do it. What you do from there on is based on how well you perform during the time you've 
 been given. You have to clean up the mess, or you could just leave the bathroom and walk out quickly 
 from the diner. Because later on you come back at the scene, playing the detectives investigating 
 the case of this murder. And that's where the story begins...
  
  It's been a year since I finished the game and I played it almost at once, it really grew on me. 
 And I was really thrilled about it 'cause I've been waiting for something similiar game type where 
 everything you do is based on time and everything gets a diffrent consequence. That's the biggest 
 letdown of this game. Say if you decide to leave all the traces and just run away from the diner 
 - it would be easier to track you down, wouldn't it? But it don't work that way. I tried doing 
 things very carefully another time around (after I've finished it) but the game played almost the 
 same. The only diffrence is that the character feels more secure about himself that he left no 
 trace and gets less nervous when he talks to people (because that affects things too and how well 
 you do things) . If you'll get to depress your character might just die.
  
  However, it's a great story and a great game that really gets your heart beating faster. If this 
 game really could have this interactive gameplay featuring diffrent stories depending on your decisions 
 it would be a flawless and a new era of adventure games would rise. Because this might be the best 
 in its type the last few years. I really prefer the point-and-click but I have no problem with 
 this.
  
  So however, the gameplay gets a straight 9 for its revolutionary technique to play a game, although 
 they tend to lack in some way. I don't know how many times I've been twisted in my head by the 
 story so the tilt gets 10. That's the best thing in the game. I felt great value the first time 
 I played the game but it got boring the other time around cause I couldn't replay it in some other 
 way. Sound is great and graphichs is decent enough.
  
  To be a direct port from Playstation 2 it is a good game. A superb game. If the director really 
 could've meant what he said that Everything that happens depends on what you do . One more thing 
 is at the end the game get a little to much and it turns over to something I don't know how to 
 describe. It doesn't affect my opinion on the game but it was a risky ending. I'd really see more 
 of this kind of games in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahmed22
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  what a game really!! i enjoyed every second playing it. the graphics the sound effects and voice 
 acting is fantastic ya really i felt like i am watching a real movie and participating in its actions 
 too. the game created some sort of thriller, mystery and horror complex that hold you to your chair 
 to the moment the cast pumped up. the unique gameplay in this game and sound effects of this game 
 really make it one of a kind . anyway i dont have much to say to u about playing this legendary 
 game you must played it to feel it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 23, 2007 6:08 am PT
Review:  I don't like adventure games. I almost hate point &amp; click games. But Indigo Prophecy (Fahrenheit-European 
 Version) isn't a point &amp; click &amp; it's an instant classic. The graphics aren't superb, but 
 they go really nice with the atmosphere. The sound is one of the best ever, the soundtrack &amp; 
 in-game music are simply superb. The voice acting &amp; sound effects are great too. The gameplay 
 is very original. The camera &amp; movement are similar to an action game. The game was made for 
 consoles, so you'd better play it with a gamepad, for easyer control. It can be sometimes annoying, when 
 you have to press the directions shown in circles or too press very fast the arrows (left &amp; 
 right) or some moves with the mouse, so a gamepad works better. But it's not nice at all that even 
 in some cutscenes you have to pay attention to the circles so you can't be very attentive at what 
 happens. The story starts very good &amp; continues greatly. That mistery, combined with the cold 
 &amp; the strange murder makes a relly good story. But the stupid insect-spiders, the cyborg &amp; 
 it's vortexes, the fights like in Matrix (where Neo is Lucas Kane &amp; Agent Smith is the Mayan 
 Oracle) , the Maya Clans &amp; homeless organisation are really stupid &amp; don't go well in the 
 storyline. But the atmosphere is simply the best in any game!!! The tensioned moments, the ones when 
 a major change is made in the story, etc. Surely, Indigo Prophecy is the best adventure ever made,&amp; 
 will remain that way untill Omikron 2 or something similar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fl4rty
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 16, 2007 3:38 am PT
Review:  Well playing through this game there's one thing for sure, all the effort has been put into the 
 story,
  The story is a great one though, easily worthy of Hollywood blockbuster fame, I'm not going to 
 go into the story and ruin the fun for you.
  
  The graphics are pretty lack lustre in my opinion, but that's probably because I'm used to FPS 
 graphics and this was developed to be playable on the XBOX and PS2,
  
  The controls on the keyboard and mouse feel completely clunky and unsuitable, with this in mind 
 I went and purchased a PS2 controller for the P. C, and as suspected the game play comes more to 
 life with the use of analogue sticks and feels more fluid.
  
  The actual game play is pretty repetitive, it consists mostly of moving the analogue sticks in 
 the direction of the colours indicated on the screen, there's some other elements like accomplishing 
 tasks within a certain time limit in a free roaming environment. The first game play element stated 
 here can be annoying at times as you concentrate to much on the colours being displayed and cant 
 fully focus on the situation unfolding on screen, and some of the events that unfold on screen 
 are awesome to watch.
  
  If you like a good game with a good story, then this is for you, despite the flaws I feel this 
 game has I'm going to give it a respectable 7-8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: en-z-io
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2008 12:34 am PT
Review:  Fahrenheit (also known as Indigo Prophecy) is simply one of the greatest games that I have ever 
 played; it is so incredibly immersive. The beautiful soundtrack coupled with an all too amazing 
 storyline made me want to play this game forever. Despite its brevity (less than ten hours to complete 
 the game) , Fahrenheit more than makes up for it with it's truly cinematic gaming experience. This 
 game is truly an unique experience. To add to this, it seems as if the game has very good replayability; 
 there are a plethora of different options that you, the player, can take.
  
  Unfortunately, the only real setback I saw to the game was the clunky camera and clunky controls. 
 Although the controls do work nicely in spots, other times, it is a little annoying. Often, you 
 must play these 'mini-games'. That is, doing some button mashing, or viewing a sort of on-screen 
 'Simon Says' game, in which you must press certain keys with what color is flashed. Sometimes, 
 this detracts from the experience because your focus is all put to this 'Simon Says' game, thus 
 removing your full attention to what is occurring on-screen. Fortunately, it is relatively easy 
 to look past all of this and truly appreciate the game. 
  
  Although the graphics are nothing spectacular, they are good enough to pull you into the experience. 
 Without a doubt, I would highly recommend this game to anyone. It is by far the best action/adventure 
 game that I have played. I can't believe it took me this long to finally pick up this game! I must 
 say, you truly do become attached to the characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alinacruceru
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 8, 2007 3:52 am PT
Review:  Remember the first time you thought of a game to be amazing? Well, playing Indigo Prophecy is like 
 going through that experience all over again. I am an adventure game addict and I have to say I've 
 never played something like this before. I felt like this game has opened a new era in adventure 
 gaming. Everything, from the story and music to the characters and game control, is absolutely 
 amazing and, I could even say, breathtaking. If you haven't played this game, do it right away, 
 even if you are not an adventure game fan. I guarantee you'll have a great experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aliagha367
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2007 5:26 am PT
Review:  I have finish it 4 times till now and may I do that then also...
  fahrenheit's story is just greaaaat
  it's just like a big storybook or historicmovie's story
 
  
  your story line surely is complately defertiaite from other persons that played this game...
 
  
  I've never seen a game like this!!!
  I've finish it in 1 day in about 10 hours...
  I just suggest it to everyone..
  greaaat
  
  and the rate that site give to this game (8.4) 
 is NOT right at allllllllllll
  
  just play it!!!!????
  
  Kane's life takes a dark turn one night, however, when he decides to visit a local diner. In the 
 very opening scene of the game we find Lucas sitting in a bathroom stall, convulsing and carving 
 bizarre symbols into his forearms. An unlucky schmo happens into the bathroom during this period, 
 and Lucas, seemingly unable to control his actions, attacks him, stabbing him multiple times. Moments 
 after the killing, Lucas returns to his senses, only to be equal parts horrified and stupefied 
 by his actions. From here you take control of Lucas, and it's up to you to get him the hell out 
 of there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmy_the_pipe
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 6, 2007 7:40 pm PT
Review:  **SPOILERS INCLUDED**
  
  Farenheit/Indigo Prophecy is an excellent game. It's a random splattering of so many sources, such 
 as Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon, The Matrix, Sims, bad 'cop movies', pycho movies (like Pycho 
 or Silence of the Lambs) , Lexx, and of course Lord of the Rings. ... and it's pretty (profanity) 
 good.
  
  The music (both instrumental background music and popular songs from Theory of a Deadman or Bobby 
 Byrd) is great, the plot is intense; it's like they say when they say 'it's like watching a film'. 
 But, this game is also pretty lazy. Some games you control the character for a good 90% of the 
 game, with maybe 10% of cut-scenes. With IP (this game) , it's the opposite; 90% cut-scenes, 10% 
 standard gameplay. But don't be confused!; it's not like Metal Gear 2, where you play two levels 
 and watch two hours of movie. In IP, there's DDR* mini-games going on during the movies, so you 
 gotta stay focussed. ... it's just pretty lazy. *you gotta hit 2 pairs of 4 multi-colored buttons, 
 in a style similiar to Dance Dance Revolution
  
  This game is really good; but some parts are just so randomly difficult and you'll find yourself 
 trying twenty times just to get through. (GD army base levels; they really suck and make you curse. 
 I actually beat the first one in an hour, saved two kids from a fire, just to watch Lukas jump 
 off his balcony. ... GD army base levels.)
  
  **And yea, towards the end of the game the game generally unravels; plot and logic generally go 
 away, with characters acting very out of character for no apparent reason, other than to rush towards 
 the ending. For example, Carla, the dedicated police officer, randomly decides to help murderer 
 Lukas, with almost no proof that he's innocent. Or Lukas himself, who seemed quite taken with Tiffany, 
 seems to brush off her death and jumps right for Carla.**
  **They ran out of time, and had to force a series of games into a single game. The ending would 
 be a bit more satisfying had the story been told properly, and these oddities might be more believable.
 
  
  But negatives aside: How many games give you the opportunity to play a murderer, and cover your 
 tracks? Or, controversely, to play a pair of cops searching for evidence you just hid a moment 
 before? This game is unique, and this is one of the reasons. Also, you can sit back and watch Carla 
 kick the crap out of Tyler in a boxing match. Also, Mortuary? Agatha? Gun-range? Crazy fight scene 
 at the end of the game?
  
  I beat this game twice in a row, so you know it's good. (Just don't expect any sex unless you're 
 in Europe.) There's 3 endings, but at least 6 different paths that lead into the ending (not counting 
 dying as an ending) . Suggestions for improvement:
  -Replace some DDR and T&amp; F games with some other sort of minigame.
  -Good story needs a good 
 ending.
  -Some more bonuses; like a 3D character library, or other random easter eggs. I have too many pts, 
 but nowhere else to spend them.
  -Remove any Army Base levels which feature Lukas as a kid.
  
  But all-in-all I really like 
 this game. Awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alpertur
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2007 4:53 am PT
Review:  Even the people, who are never interested in video games, have been snapped in front of the screen 
 and chained them self. It makes everybody to keep attention on movie: Oh God! Police again! Be 
 cool ok? be cool! 
  
  I have never felt being guilty in a video game. Murder, run-away, hiding from the police, playing 
 the both sides of the medal in a same hurry, same excitement and joy.... I don't know, is there 
 any other game like this?
  
  Soundtracks are very cool. Theory of a Dead Man did a good job. The story and even the motions 
 are very classic, especially the action scenes are like Matrix movie, but the emotion , which makes 
 a game to play, is excellent.
  
  I wish I couldn't finish it so quick. I hope there will be a sequel, or let's say another good 
 game from quanticdreams (Heavy Rain?) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BertieBots
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 31, 2006 7:18 am PT
Review:  I decided to buy this game as I thought it was different to the normal games I played and it definitely 
 was. This game is very hard to explain but the storyline grabbed me from the start when the game 
 begins with you [Lucas Kane] , who is stuck in a trance, murdering a random person and having to 
 get rid of the evidence before the cops arrive.
  
  Another good thing about Fahrenheit is the way that you can play as four characters (Lucas Kane 
 (the murderer?) , Carla Valenti (detective) , Tyler Miles (Detective) and Markus Kane (Lucas's older 
 brother and priest) ) which allows you to get many different perspectives on the game. A problem 
 I found with the game was that there were too many action sequences where the player had to press 
 many controls at once and eventually I had pains in my wrists or I just got very bored with the 
 sequences but, to be honest, it was worth it.
  
  This is one of the best games I have played this year and has given me many hours of enjoyment. 
 The storyline was great and grabbed you but some parts were very easy to guess what was going to 
 happen next.
  
  Overall I would give this game a 9 and recommend it to anyone who want to play a new type of game 
 and I am sure that anyone will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p_angelofdeath
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 26, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  You can't often find the game like this. I LOVE this game. THANK YOU FOR THE TEAM BUILD!! for the 
 great game
  You must try this game and you will like it because it's doesn't same the other game such as : 
 The Interactive control with your mouse in the PC and in many stage will differrent. In the game 
 you will answer the question about your charactors this will be very excite when you must answer 
 and there are time line for your answer. I felt very impressive with this game.
  I plays it for 2 times and I SWEAR it doesn't boring me. It's the best game I will say that again. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vecuf
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2006 4:07 am PT
Review:  I have played this one quite a long time ago, (I never write a review the next day I finish a game) , 
 but still, I am missing the great, strange athmosphere of the game. I will probably play it one 
 more time these nights of winter. Because the (apocalyptic) snow gets you the right feeling of 
 the game: strange, heavy emotional, you'll feel like some strange energies fills up the air.
  
  Because the athmosphere is all about this game. The incredible richness and the depth of the 
 story excellent excellent tiding with the music and the sounds will make the picture perfect. This 
 game will make you feel like you are part of every scene in the game. Partly, because you'll get 
 to play almost every important character in the game and partly, because of some revolutionary 
 gameplay mechanics which totally involves you in the action and in the athmosfere of the game. 
 But, for me, this game is almost totally about athmosphere and emotions. The big minus of this 
 game is some totally illogical turns of the story. However these can be forgiven because we are 
 talking about one of the best story every written for a videogame. There is a lot to say about 
 this game, but, I think it's best to play it first, to experience the feeling, the emotions. This 
 game is very hard to describe or to write a review about it. I think it's best if you'll experience 
 it on your own and have your own story and ending depending of your actions in the game (another 
 great thing) . If you are the hack and slash type of gamer, stay out of this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir-Dark-Raiden
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2006 10:17 pm PT
Review:  In this game you play the role of Lucas Kane. A character very well made, a marvelous story and 
 a game full of action and that captivates you from his very minute. For a adventure game i was 
 really shocked to see how much i liked it. Even if his graphics aren't amaizing, the story and 
 the game action is very complex. If i ussualy don't play too much adventure games this is one game 
 that a gamer can't miss. believe me you will not regret it, so i strongly recommend it. If you 
 are also a fan for misteries you have to try and discover the story of the game, but most of all 
 i think the Fps and 3D Shooter fans will love this once they will try it. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calist0
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 27, 2006 5:23 am PT
Review:  Now this is an original game... don't you think? This game needs no introduction, no matter of gamer 
 you are you'll love it .
  
  The week part of this one are graphics. They are not bad just that they are not polished, if it 
 were more details, more textures it would made a damn good game. But no matter, because this is 
 the kind of game where graphics are not that important but the story... this is a perfect psychological 
 cop story. With great voice acting, great action and great fight sequels. While you play it you 
 will have the same filling : that you are being watched, that someone is behind all you actions 
 and that you are going crazy.
  
  Of course the game provides some moments of relaxing like playing basket or fighting in arena just 
 for training or (which is my favorite ) playing the guitar, these are some moments in the game 
 where tension seems absent and enjoy the game. But IP it's a feeling machine, where moments like 
 i described previously alternate with feelings of despair , tension and sadness.
  
  The gameplay is excellent the sounds, oh that soundtrack it gets me every time, but the story and 
 it's complexity is above all...
  
  Buy this game, it's a new experience.
  Great game, great.
  
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burakbegen
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 26, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  The game is very creative and interesting. It is an adventure but not your usual adventure. You 
 can play as different characters, switch between them and plot continues coherently. I loved the 
 idea and game play, graphics could have been better, musics are nice. You start as a man who acts 
 like he is possessed and kills a guys in a diner's restroom, then he escapes, the first puzzle 
 is how to escape, in this opening scene you control this guys, after the escape police come to 
 the scene and you start to control police detectives (partners, a girl and a guy) , game lets you 
 as I said switch between these characters and plot goes very smoothly. I find this idea and freedom 
 in the game quite amazing. Two thumbs up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 22, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  First off, Indigo Prophecy is one of the most compelling and thrilling story you could ever played. 
 You would be strapped in and be so interested of what this game is about. As well the game isn't 
 like any other game. You can be three characters in this game. You can be Lucas, Carla and Tyler 
 and each of these characters have there own story and background. Mostly though, the story's main 
 character is Lucas Kane. The story has connections like The Matrix and CSI.
  
  Like gamespot said, this type of gameplay is more like a cinematic gameplay I mean its like a movie 
 but you get to pick what happens. Yes that is what I truly love about this game, you would have 
 compelling choices in the game. What ever choice you make in this game there is always a consquence. 
 You get to make how the story begins and ends. Also there are times in this game when you get to 
 the action, it gets intense. Like once you get to the action sequences you have to follow what 
 to press and you got to make sure you press the right button or you will die in this game. And 
 man there are some scenes that are a complete rip off of the matrix but yet it looks awesome. Like 
 once you see Lucas Kane and the Sorcerer fighting then you would feel like your watching the matrix 
 again. But hey it is cool action, right?
  
  Although there are some flaws in this game. The graphics are kind of old and not so impressive 
 but graphics don't make a game good. Although this game is short. Once you beat the game you wouldn't 
 feel like playing it again. You can unlock like concept arts, videos, trailers, etc. But they are 
 too easy to get. In this game you get these coins to buy these unlockables but once you beat the 
 game you get all the coins you want. Overall this game is highly recommended to those gamers that 
 seek a intense story and adventure. I am not a guy that plays adventure games like this but man 
 it was one awesome game. It is recommend to other gamers as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caxabianca
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 7, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  First of alll IF ur buying European version than this game isnt for kids.
  
  USA version will be OK.....
  
  this is one opf the best game i have ever played in my life.... NOt 
 the best but one of the best..... But like every game this game is nOt flawless...
  
  GooD tHings: Great graphics... Great Cinematic represntation.....
  Good Voice acting... Gripping 
 story.... Involving charactersSSS.... absolutely amazing acTion sequences....
  
  Bad Thing: Only one bad thing is the game.. the endiNg..... Its was totaly F**ked UP!!! really.... I 
 suggest u all who is readiN ma review that stoop the game After savin child.....
  
  When that game ends i was feeling like oooohh why this game ended.... It was so beautifull game....!!!!! 
 SO if u r looking for sumtHin different than this game is for U... But hey.... There is Lots of adult 
 material sOOoooOooOOoOoOo...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceblue3970
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 5, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  This game is surprisingly fun. For the little gameplay you have, it can be one helluva fun game. 
 This game makes you feel like you are actually involved you become attached to your characters 
 not wanting either of them to fall. Qualities of a great game. This game goes through many twists 
 and turns making you wonder what would have happened if you had did it differently. This game can 
 even teach you life lessons. This is something that I had always thought had looked weird in the 
 movie store. But it was well-worth the money to rent &amp; buy this game. There is beauty in every 
 single second of this game, the story is amazing. You will surely love it if you just give it a 
 chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 5, 2006 4:07 am PT
Review:  Indigo Propechy or Farenheit (in europe) puts you in the shoes of a man who is a normal person 
 one day and a murderer the next, and the two police agents trying to catch him. In the first few 
 moments you know IP isn't going to be another adventure game. The graphic scenes of a murder with 
 strange visions put your character in a tight situation. You have to get away from the police agents 
 tailing you and figure out what is causing you to do these horrific deeds. The graphics aren't 
 amazing but the gameplay really makes the player feel like they are acting out a movie. To do certain 
 actions you move the mouse in a specified direction, ranging from mopping up blood off the blood 
 stricken floor or just simple things like opening a door. While the Voice acting is par and you 
 can't skip cut scenes (which at times isn't bad because it adds to the movie feel) Indigo Prophecy 
 nails the movie like game with a great story, making this a must-get to all you adventure/strange 
 gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenshin836
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 12, 2007 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Indigo Prophecy is a lot like a interactive cinematic movie, almost to the point where it should 
 be the dictionary definition of one. There's a lot of great solid cutscenes in this game that look 
 like they were carefully planned out. The voice acting is also very noteworthy along with the music 
 soundtrack. I'm not going to spoil the story for you, I'll just let you experience it for yourself 
 but for the most part: it is amazing. The gameplay is pretty standard adventure game for the most 
 part but there are many little innovative additions that make all the difference. Like for example, 
 if you leave a diner without paying for your meal, other characters will know about it. You have 
 an effect on the world your in. Gamplay wise, almost everything is good but I know I could've done 
 without some of the more intensive match this direction minigames, especially considering I'm using 
 a keyboard and not a game controller. The game has multiple endings so that should keep interested 
 players coming back again to it. Personally, this is one of the best adventure games I've played 
 in the past few years. No other one has managed to make me feel actually attached to these fictional 
 characters and the plot that surrounds them. If your an adventure fan, you owe it to yourself to 
 check out Indigo Prophecy. It has to be seen to be believed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dangoode
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 7, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is sheer brilliance, it immerses you in a game where you play as multiple people you 
 play as the police and everything you find (or don't find) are relevant to how the police act later 
 on. You are then just a man who is confused about a murder he did as well as scarring himself. 
 As you progress through the game the man realises whats happening. the game is like a movie where 
 you press buttons in order of sequence personally when i heard about that i thought i was naf, 
 but i played the game and was hooked, with multiple endings each making you upset because they 
 leave you wanting more this game is A MUST FOR EVERYONE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sarcadoz
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 28, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  I heard so much about this game that I simply gave it a try. And I have to say, I don't regret 
 any second playing it. Indigo Prophecy keeps you totally bound to the PC for that short time it 
 lasts.
  
  Starting the game, the first thing I noticed was the great, emotional soundtrack. That beautiful, 
 melancholic strings awaken Kafkaesque feelings which are just the tip of the iceberg. Indigo Prophecy 
 is played like a movie. There are explaining cutscenes, great special effects, amazing action sequences 
 and interesting puzzles.
  
  The one thing that makes this game so different is the way in which you interact with your environment. 
 Instead of just pressing one 'use-button' all the time you have to make a certain movement with 
 your mouse to execute an order or choose from dialog options. This makes the game much more interesting 
 even after a longer time of playing because it keeps you focused. If you do the wrong move you 
 may even die in certain situations.
  
  The action sequences and other 'mini-games' are played by pressing two sets of directional keys 
 at the appropriate time in a 'simon says' way. If you manage to stay calm and focused during these 
 challenges, they are not really hard at all. One problem is that you can't really watch what's 
 going on, because you always have to pay attention to the arrows.
  
  The storyline of Indigo Prophecy is one of the best I've experienced in a while. It's deep character 
 development and that mystical touch with the main object being the mayan religion slowly reveals 
 pieces of a big puzzle. Furthermore you don't play as only one character but switch between them 
 from time to time, therefore learning more about the personality of every character as the game 
 continues.
  
  Another interesting new development is the mental constitution. Almost every action you take either 
 raises it or lowers it, bringing you from a certain sanity to complete madness and depression. 
 Too many harmful actions will result in either suicide, surrendering to the police or another action 
 which immediately ends the game.
  
  But that's not much of a problem for the automatic saving solution of Indigo Prophecy has also 
 been done great. You don't have to mind saving before taking the next step as the game does most 
 of that.
  
  Apart from the main storyline, there are some 'mini-games' I have mentioned before which will spice 
 up the whole gaming experience and take some of those bad feelings you get while playing Indigo 
 Prophecy away. A good example is a part where you can make the main character play guitar. I sat 
 there for half an hour listening to that great bossa sound.
  
  Coming to an end, I can really reccommend Indigo Prophecy to every gamer out there who feels like 
 it is time to experience something new. It keeps you awake for days! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KBcool203
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2006 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Indigo Prophecy is truly one of the most captivating action/adventure games of all time. Sure, 
 the game isn't as beautiful as others, but what is lacks in beauty it makes up for in game-play 
 and story. You begin your role as Lucas Kane, one of four playable characters, just after he unwillingly 
 murdered an unsuspecting victim. The cinematic effect in the game never fails to draw you into 
 the story. Think of it as playing a movie, because that's exactly how it feels. One thing I have 
 found in very few titles to date, is the ability for a game to create an emotional attachment to 
 the involved characters. This game, for me anyway, has delivered this without a flaw. From a game-play 
 perspective, this game delivers heart-pounding action that, in my opinion, is far above average 
 compared to many current titles. Let me see... what's next? Ah yes, audio, one of my favorite aspects 
 in video games. Audio is a very integral part of any title. It can immerse the player into the 
 game world, so much so that a game without audio of some form would be very unappealing to most. 
 Well, in this, the game once again does not disappoint. The ambiance supports the game very nicely, 
 as well as deepening the immersion level. The sound effects are well done and have very little 
 anomalies if any at all. Now, on to the visuals. While some today would dismiss this game simply 
 because the graphics are heavily scripted, I can not help but think of how one, at that point, 
 could enjoy movies as they are completely scripted and a passive entertainment medium. Yes, the 
 animations are scripted, but lets not forget that the story is not. The story is extremely dynamic, 
 every action you make affects the events that have yet to come. This adds not only a unique experience 
 for the player, but a replay value that is seldom seen in single-player games today. For a final 
 verdict I would rate this game at 9.0 for it's outstanding storyline and game-play. I also find 
 it in my personal top ten of this genre. This concludes my review for Indigo Prophecy. Thank you 
 for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rome_212
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 25, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Wow, this game is great! It's so inventive. The story is just amazing, and the gameplay is great!!! 
 The choice making is awesome and really affects the story. You can play as Lucas Kane, Carla, or 
 Tyler! You gotta think fast and sometimes think hard (example: A cop is knocking at your door and 
 is insisting for us to open it, quickly cover the bloody bed and take the bloody blanket and put 
 it in the washing machine, get the keys and open the door) ! You also need to have good reflexes 
 (example: Playing the electric guitar) . All that is just great fun. The worst part of the game 
 is the messy looking graphics. They feel unfinished. But they're not all bad, a few characters 
 are nicely modeled. In all, the graphics could have been tweaked.
  
  The voice acting is amazing and the sound effects are great. The music makes it feel awesome too!
 
  
  In all, this is a very good game and I highly recommend it to anyone who has a PC. The game would 
 make a great movie too! The game is short, but it's still worth the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrjcobra
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 22, 2006 9:01 pm PT
Review:  I liked it alot but as mentioned in the gamespot review there is a part in the story that will 
 make you scratch your head. Actually there are a couple of parts towards the end that will make 
 you do that.
  
  The story is great and the way the mini games work is a nice touch. It actually feels like you 
 are watching a movie and a good one at that.
  
  But some weird plot twists and some sections where you are forced to talk to somone that I'd rather 
 not talk to get annoying some times.
  
  Replay value is kinda limited and you are really given too much time to not mess things up real 
 bad.
  
  The only real problem I had was when you were playing the two cops. While you can clearly see a 
 clue the other may not see it. That and certain sections where one can perform a action but the 
 other can't.
  
  As mentioned in the GS review there is a bit of matrix style in the game. This is the part I disliked 
 the most as it made the story go from interesting to just plain stupid.
  
  It's really just a choice wether or not you play this game. But it is a good one I wish more developers 
 made games that were good like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marqo
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 19, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  I would like to quote another user who said its hard to describe. And I underline that with a 
 BIG Hard to describe but in a good way. If you never have tried this game before I would actually 
 recommend you to play the game.
  
  I see the game as a cinematic gameplay with a mix off Still Life, Syberia and Max Payne. A game 
 with a strange mix of action, thriller, (little horror) and romance. Note: in this case action 
 means without 200 guns in your pocket. And in the beginning I was little bit suspect to the control 
 in the game but after a short time you starting to like it. All action in the game are based with 
 a lot of difficult button-sequence on the pad. This reminds me of 2 games from earlier time that 
 have this kind of sequence in the game. 1: In 'GTA San Andreas', you have some short missions which 
 you had to impress some girls to like you. 2: 'Dragons Lair' is an old cartoon-cinematic game from 
 Amiga 500 which you also had to move, in this case with a joystick, with a perfect sequence to 
 ever see this animated cartoon. If you failed to move your joystick in the right time and in the 
 right place then you died which I always did. But in this case with Indigo Prophecy it works perfectly. 
 It just not only gives the game a cinematic feeling but it also gives the game a good interactive 
 feeling.
  
  The story and the alternatives in the game are to short and less which bring down the score a bit 
 both the gameplay and the value. But keeps the score up some are the idea that you can choice if 
 you want to play the investigator or the murderer, which give you different ends in the game. The 
 developer Quantic Dream should have done a bigger, more complex and a more interactive story. I 
 think that they would have gained a better score for the game if they done that.
  
  Lets dont forget the music and I give the game a very good score. The music brings up the feeling 
 very much. It reminds me of the music from the movie Replacement Killers and the game Max Payne.
 
  
  And now in the end of this writing I noticed that the developer Quantic dream are working with 
 a new game Heavy Rain. For the moment TBA but the game sounds strange and interesting. If they 
 dont decides to work with Indigo Prophecy 2 all I hope is that they continues to open new doors 
 with Heavy Rain.
  
  ;D/Marq 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joff5555
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 18, 2006 5:20 am PT
Review:  i played this game on ps2 so i thought i would like to try the pc ver its a bit harder than the 
 ps2 ver fahrenheit (indigo prophecy us ver name of the game) well i live in the uk very hard controls 
 easy story to follow i just dont get it some people say its a bad game its propley becuse they 
 think its hard but it isnt i mean whan i frist herd about it i thought it was going to be crap 
 but it was'ent its great i just completed the game today on the pc well if want to buy it than 
 buy it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddcromax
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 16, 2006 5:01 am PT
Review:  + Positive:
  Unique gameplay.
  Finaly saomething new. - Negative:
  Bad camera.
  Sometimes controls doesn't respond as they should.
  
  Very, very nice game, move-like game, 
 emotional impact, drama, and character development, very unique. I felt that in some way you can 
 actualy play a game that is not linear. Unfortunately that is not truth.
  The story is wonderful, and I mus say very deep.
  The game lets you play multiple characters.
 
  The music and the sound in general is fantastic.
  Sometimes youll stuck in some part of the game, but dont let that discourage you.
  Play this 
 game, its much like watching a movie, except you can interact. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rawgik
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 9, 2006 6:25 am PT
Review:  I have just finished the game, and I must say I am very satisfied!
  Indigo Prophecy was indeed one of the most innovative games I have played in my 15+ years of gaming 
 life, and it was very enjoyable from start to finish. It just immediately captures you and make 
 the concept of time meaningless.
  However, there are also some downsides in this game.
  One of the major downsides that I, and numerous other player have experienced is all the glitches 
 and lags during the gameplay.
  (Frustrations caused by few seconds of lagging during the chopper sequence is one of the most infamous 
 examples.)
  For me, updating the game version to 1.1 using the official patch provided by the developers completely 
 eliminated these glitches and lags, but I noticed few people still had complaints even after the 
 patch.
  Another downside is the plot.
  I will not ruin it for anyone who did not play through this game, but towards the end, plot gets, 
 well.. very interesting..
  Some dialogues were also little bit obvious and sometimes even very awkward, (especially.. you 
 know what with you know who just before the end..) but it does not affect the overall flow of the 
 game.
  
  Game industry must come up with innovative ideas like Quantic Dreams. br / 
  Those companies who are trying to set the gaming standards only by pushing the limits of the graphics 
 with their unlimited budgets, should snap out of it and start making notes from Indigo Prophecy. 
 p. s: I recently saw a trailer of a PlayStation 3 game that is currently being developed by Quantic 
 Dream, and I am dying to get my hands on it! (You should check it out too!)
  
  Oh, and..
  'Neo'..!? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sid_mail2001
Rating: 6.8
Date: Sep 5, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  A gripping story, nice cinematics, good action sequences in between with really some good voice 
 overs and beautiful background score.... yup, these are the only nice adjectives that I can relate 
 with this game. Now it's bad part.... awful control over the character, story goes from best to 
 worst at the end. There are so many loop holes in the story.... apart from these loopholes the ending 
 was a very abrupt one. Just can't figure out what happened to the orange and purple clans 
  
  Graphics are not very good but I'll give it 7.5/10
  
  Each character's story was well woven, 
 the background score is really good and really does match with the ongoing circumstances. A very 
 unique gameplay.... you won't find such gameplay in any other game and when i say this I really 
 mean it.
  
  My advice : Play it once and see what happens to our hero LUCAS KANE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acbarnes
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 4, 2006 4:56 pm PT
Review:  all i can say is thank god for quantic dream. it's about time for some innovative gameplay and 
 story immersion! when i found out this game was in development, i breathed a sigh of relief that 
 there is a company out there that is just as sick of the same old, unimaginative gameplay that 
 so many studios are pumping out. i like how the game plays so much like a movie. playing over and 
 over again just reveals different story elements, or even leaves some out. i find the storyline 
 to be very well written and engrossing. the only beef i have with it is the gameplay of the flashback 
 sequences, when you sneak around the military base.
  
  bottom line, though, great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bogaty
Rating: 5.8
Date: Sep 4, 2006 4:20 am PT
Review:  Much has been written about the supposedly compelling storyline and, while admittedly much better 
 than one finds in most games, its merits have been somewhat overblown. The story is the best part 
 of the game though I almost never made it through to the climax and denouement as the control system 
 was clearly designed for a console pad and not the keyboard and mouse. I am very disappointed with 
 the developers and publishers for not taking the time to modify the control scheme to suit the 
 PC. It turns what should be a compelling game into a frustrating series of reloads. To make matters 
 worse, the save/load system is also lifted directly from the console version with the typically 
 annoying limited save points rather than a quicksave option. This means sitting through cutscenes 
 repeatedly as there is no way to skip them. Graphically the game is a mixed bag. Stylistically, 
 it's quite compelling and does a superb job of creating an atmosphere of coldness, depression and 
 isolation. Technically, it's poor. The graphics engine was designed around the limitations of the 
 PS2 and this shows in blocky characters, grainy, low resolution backgrounds, and low polygon counts 
 which results in supposedly round objects like car tires and mugs looking more like lug nuts. The 
 sound is well done with an unobtrusive yet moody soundtrack. The voice acting is mostly above average 
 with a few exceptions. It's a well crafted adventure game that should have been better ported to 
 the PC. If the control shortcomings had been addressed, I'd have no hesitations about recommending 
 it in spite of the substandard graphics, but as it is, I'd say wait until it's in a bargain bin. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heborress
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 23, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  Indigo Prophecy (or Fahrenheit) is truly a great game.
  The game starts in a small diner in New York where the main characters Lucas Kane kills a man in 
 the restroom. But he was unable to control himself during this, as if he was in some sort of trance.
 
  After he realised what he had done he decides to get out of there before the police get there, 
 and the player now gets to control Lucas in his quest to find out what happened to him.
  But once you get out of the diner, you are suddenly playing as two detectives (Carla and Tyler) 
 who arrives to investigate the crime scene.
  The game lets you play multiple characters, the murderer Lucas, the detectives Carla and Tyler, 
 and Lucas's brother Markus. This is something i have never seen in any game before, and it is brilliant.
 
  And the story is awesome, and the best thing about it, is that (almost) everything you do (or 
 not do) , affects the storyline in a great way.
  This feature makes the replay-value great.
  Visually, the graphics looks a bit dated, but the overall presentation is awesome!
  The music 
 (from Angelo Badalamenti) is also great.
  And the voice actors does a great job.
  I have one problem with the game though, and that is some small parts of the game, that was frustrating. 
 (the flashbacks to Lucas and Markus childhood) .
  
  But after all this game is fantastic, and i'm hoping to see more games of this type soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nemo_Gawish
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 22, 2006 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Causes to put this game in your list of your favourite games,
  
  This game contains every thing for a successful game, first the story is wonderful, deep and it makes 
 you very attracted to it, secondly the game play is very good and it makes you interact with the 
 scenes very well, thirdly the graphics is very well and finally the soundtrack is very very very 
 good.
  
  When i describe some of the most wonderful actions in the game play is that you can play with 3 
 characters and you can panel between them freely and you will complete the story line with all 
 of them at the same time.
  
  So my final advice don't pass this game without playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cliff122316
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 11, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  this is an intuitive creative game which provides an excellent play experience. the plot line is 
 great. the story is scary at parts yet interesting. the gameplay is made difficult however because 
 of the controls. the controls will make you want to rip out your brains for the first hour, and 
 it seriously detracts from the opening sequence when you cannot walk straight and accomplish an 
 objective. the camera is included in this shameful control setup. but at the same time there are 
 sections which work very well. the button timing sequences provide a heart pumping exhilirating 
 way to move through cutscenes. the graphics are another dissapointment, and do detract from the 
 feel of the game at times. the sound is confusing at times as to what is going on when you perform 
 an action. but the plot and extremely well done sections of the game more than make up for its 
 shortcomings. and eventually you of course become more familiar with the controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PigLegs
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 11, 2006 5:08 am PT
Review:  The best eanyone ho likes a good adventure game shod buy it its briljant but the story goes all 
 strange and weard in the end but yeh this game rules and the story goes on and on you play the 
 agents then lukas and agents again the music is AWSOME but its to short so when it plays you feall 
 how it goes frome the start. yeh the start is like HOLLY CRAP what have i done and stuff AWWW F**K 
 hes dead i have a knife in my hand and must do some thing AND BOOM!! frome that start you play 
 you and the dead guy are in the resturaunts toilet you have little time and you can do eany thing 
 you can hide the knife or leave it on the flor, you can hide the body in the toilet or leave it 
 , you can wash your self and go out like nothing ever happend or you can go out of thr toilet into 
 the returaunt all blody azz hell and scare everyone well the choice is YOURS!!! but only the biginning 
 actualy lets you do that much 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevor_25
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 9, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  I am one of those gamers that appreciates a good story and will play almost any type of game that 
 offers one up. Indigo Prophecy falls into the adventure game category, but is not so straight forward 
 as your typical point and click adventure game. In fact the cinematic joyride you go through in 
 this game makes it well worth playing. The gameplay even offers up some unique action elements 
 to keep you busy. Overall the game is fun and drives you to the finish, even if the finish is disappointing.
 
  
  The story begins with a chilling scene, where you get to view your eventual character Lucas Kane, 
 deliver a knife blade into to someone's chest. Mr. Kane seems unlike himself during these acts 
 and your job is to find out who is behind this unnatural act. Enter Carla Valenti and Tyler Miles, 
 NYPD's finest homocide detectives. They must solve this grisly murder mystery and while they do 
 so discover there is also much more then meets the eye. The story is grisly and vivid, which is 
 part of what draws you in. Character after character is introduced and you are left wondering, 
 how is that person involved. Through the roughly 15 hours of gameplay the story unfolds in twists 
 and turns until the end where things unravel quickly. I wont go into details, but you are left 
 singing the song "Things that make you go hmmmm" when the credits roll.
  
  Now, the main character here is Lucas Kane, but you dont only play Mr. Kane. You also get to play 
 Carla and Tyler as they try to unravel the mysterious deaths happening in the city. So each chapter 
 plays out a diffferent character and this is one of the strengths of the game. Carla is at her 
 apartment and Tyler at the office. You get to prompt each character into action as they speak to 
 each other, send faxes and figure out a clue to the puzzle. Its all very interactive and makes 
 you feel as if you control the WHOLE story. I very much enjoyed this style of gameplay.
  
  One of the features that is present in the game, but didnt seem to have much impact, is the mental 
 health status. When any of the characters had something go wrong or saw something grisly they would 
 lose points towards their mental health. However, this didnt seem to effect the game much and therefore 
 wasnt worth concerning yourself with. There are plenty of opps for raising your mental health status 
 by listening to music, successfully completing fun tasks, and generally doing something correct. 
 When you start the game it seems so important, but its not really. Perhaps this is something the 
 devs could have fleshed out further.
  
  One of the surprising and unique aspects of this game are the controls. I know, surprising for 
 an adventure game. The game is not just point and click, although you do a lot of that as well. 
 Action sequences are measured with a Simon Says like methodology. Two colored circles appear on 
 the screen and prompt you to hit the arrow keys in the corresponding direction and order. If you 
 miss to many, you character will fail in his/her action. This makes for some interesting side games 
 to try out as you play through the story.
  
  The visuals and music are dark and foreboding, much like the game itself. I do think the visuals 
 could have been much better, especially for the PC port, but they are solid enough. I loved the 
 ability to play some original music on various music players in the character's apartments, which 
 provides a fun distraction.
  
  If it isnt for the story getting so crazy and ridiculous at the end, this game would definitely 
 merit a higher score. I recommend this game for those who enjoy story driven games that offer up 
 some unique gameplay opportunities. Just dont expect to be completely satisfied after its over. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdulrahiem
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 7, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  INDIGO PROPHECY is the best game when i played this game fist time i think i played a movie. The 
 story of this game is superb all things are so perfect. Gameplay of this game so easy and so good. Graphics 
 of this game is superb everything is so good. Little tell about this game the game start at a crime 
 inside a restaurant . Lucas Kane killed someone there without a control . And he's trying to escape 
 from the FBI . The FBI group should follow the crime to know who is the criminal. This is the best 
 game belive me i realy enjoyed this game or movie. BYE IT NOW.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mansii_ssj2
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 6, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Indigo Prophecy, or Fahrenheit as it's also been called, is a revolutionary game totally changing 
 the way of playing adventure games (in my opinion) . It's kinda like an Chose-Your-Own-Adventure 
 in a videogame, every action has it's own gains and it's own consequenses. In the game you mainly 
 play as Lucas Cane, a totally normal guy who ends up killing another guy in the rest room of a 
 restaurant for absolutley no reason. As the game progresses you uncover the answers to Lucas's 
 questions: Why did he kill that man? What made him do it? Why does he have these visions that almost 
 kills him at some points? You'll also play as the investigators of the murder, Tyler Miles and 
 Carla Valenti, who slowly uncover the mystery of who and killed the man in that rest-room (even 
 though we already know who) and why. It's good that you get to play both sides, it gives you a 
 larger perspective of the story, and let's you tie all the loose strings together. The game isn't 
 like any other game i've ever played, with the Chose-Your-Own-Adventure style, great graphics, 
 good music and the big perspective on the story, it's an exellent game in my opinion! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insectus
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2006 10:37 am PT
Review:  This game is the most brilliant novelty to be released in years. It's story is highly complex, 
 starting with our character commiting a murder while in some sort of transe, and from then it greatly 
 ellaborates, and i'm not going to tell more, less I risk spoiling for whoever reads. The story 
 goes forward basically trying to discover the explanation for what happened. The game mechanics 
 are awesome, with mouse movements emulating simple actions and other control schemes for action 
 sequences. Another interesting thing is that you play with both the murderer and the cops chasing 
 him, therefore, in a way, you'll always be playing against yourself!
  
  The only bad things about it are it's terrible camera angles on some sequences and the fact that 
 around at 3/4 of the game the story leaps forward unnaturally leaving people wondering WTF happened!
 
  
  Graphics are not top knocht but they really are not important for a brilliant game (movie?) like 
 this. Dialogue is high quality and music is fabulous, both score and soundtrack.
  
  Definetely worth the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doonbuggy17
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 31, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  I am in aww with Quantim Dreams, They have made a new game genre the surpasses  
 This game is all of those things and more. This game will create a new gametype that will Revoloutionize 
 games and create something so emmersive that Imagination and reality will be hard to tell apart 
 in the future. If you beleive that i am wrong then search Heavy Rain the next title of Quantim Dream 
 you will be amazed. I was truly amazed they will make movies that you control and will be a part 
 of this is what this game has/will create this is the first game to prove this and it is just a 
 small point that is apart of something amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nevans963
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 16, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Fahrenheit is a very unique game and i hadn't played anything like it before. The storyline is 
 what made it and is probably the only good thing about it, i would have rather waited an extra 
 few moths for the developers to give the game: better graphics, game-play and a better ending!!!!!
 
  
  overall i think it was a big disappointment a lot of people couldn't wait for the game and then 
 they get it and really enjoy it, u get to the end and its probably one of the easiest parts of 
 the game and also the most boring. so im sorry but i really think it could have been a lot better.
 
  
  Neal E. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabi67
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 9, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is great until a certain point. The visual aspect of the game is amazing, a solid story 
 line, until that certain point, and a more than good soundtrack.
  Its an addictive game, once you put you're hands on it you won't let it go. The character are structured 
 very nicely, there is no lack of humour either even if the game has a dark atmosphere filled with 
 crimes and mystery, and the controls are ok. Its like nothing you played before. I think the cause 
 of its very disappointing ending, and when i say very i mean it, is that its producers tried to much 
 to please every one and they complicated the game too much.
  
  I would recommend this game but i would warn you about the ending. Don't get me wrong, some of you 
 might like it and say im to old school or something, but i think that the majority would agree with 
 me.
  
  Its not you're typical adventure, a big plus would be its action sequences, the visuals and the soundtrack. Another 
 good thing is that you can play it more then once because the puzzles in this game don't play such 
 an important role, leaving this part to the visual effects of the combats, witch is not that bad.
 
  
  Im glad i played it cause it brings something new to the gaming industry and thats something that 
 is not that often brought in the last few years, referring to adventure games.
  
  Even if you are not an adventure fan you should give this game a try, because it has something for 
 everyone, a thing that some times is good and sometimes is not, in my case this time: its not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsd02_
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 8, 2006 2:26 am PT
Review:  You are Lucas Kane , and you are possessed. So much for a story witch holds much more in it, but 
 i don't want to spoil.
  
  This game might be many things: it has puzzles, shooting, action sequences and many mini games. 
 But the term witch fits best in my opinion is interactive CGI movie. As the story is told you get 
 to play few characters, and you don't just play them and control their actions, you decide their 
 choices. Too bad that those choices don't matter that much and makes no difference while you play 
 .Also it has bonus features, witch lose their potential at near middle point of the game.
  
  The controls are pretty simple : you are given two direction pads - one for walking and one 
 for making choices, you see you don't just select the choice, you have to make some kind of choosing 
 movement with second direction pad. In case of action sequences both pads turn to somewhat controller 
 for colorful combination puzzle, witch if it is done right let you pass the action sequence how 
 it should be, if not - well you just fail at that action you are at (and possibly die, loosing 
 one life) . It is pretty easy and comfortable if you have dual analog joy pad, if not - it's still 
 playable on keyboard, tho it doesn`t make that much sense as if played with right tools :) . 
  
  The graphics are nice and all the movements are animated really well (using motion capture) 
 so it adds up to the movie feeling. The sounds are really swell and game is filled with some really 
 good songs from few more or less famous artists.
  
  Overall it is a fun spent few hours with friends if you select easy difficulty as game tend to 
 lure you to the interactive watching and suddenly gives you some real challenge at one or another 
 point of the game play. One might just check Demo as it is really well done and gives wrong feelings 
 about game overall.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PsychoLord13
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 6, 2006 12:06 am PT
Review:  Movie-based games. We all know and hate them. It seems that every Hollywood Producer and Game Publisher 
 today is trying to cash in on the next big movie. How? By shoveling out a crappy game to go along 
 with it. Some of them aren't bad; some are great, like Riddick; most suck; but almost every movie-based 
 game promises you the ability to "play the movie". Most of these games just say that to get your 
 attention, none have truly delivered on their promise, but a game has finally come along that truly 
 lets you play a movie, and ironically, it has nothing to do with an actual movie. This game feels 
 kind of like a movie where the director said "Screw It, let's add some alternate paths, mini games, 
 and alternate endings and make a video game instead", but this game, despite the semi-linearity 
 and simplicity of it, is nothing short of a Revolutionary Story that should influence countless 
 games after it.
  The story starts out as a simple mystery, and a compelling one at that. A man is sitting in a bathroom 
 stall with bleeding wrists and a bloody knife in his hand, and while another man begins to urinate, 
 he stumbles out of the stall and stabs the man 3 times in the chest. The man then snaps out of 
 his trance like state, with the bleeding wrists, the knife, and the man dead at his feet. Now what 
 would you do if you woke up like that? You can do whatever you want. You can clean up the crime 
 scene entirely, or you can rinse up and get the hell out ASAP. Your actions will decide Lucas Kane's 
 fate. Hopefully, you'll get out of there, and that's when another twist comes into play, you also 
 play as the detectives assigned to his case. Playing two Opposing sides adds an interesting dynamic 
 to gameplay. You have to watch your characters' Mental Health, if one of them falls off their rocker, 
 it's game over. Something that will make one side feel better, will distress the other, and vice 
 versa. Generally, Lucas will be more distressed than Carla and Taylor, the cops, so you're better 
 off watching out for Lucas most often, not to mention that the meter runs from Neutral to Wrecked, 
 stopping off at Tense, Anxious, and Overwrought along the way. I guess happiness is impossible 
 in a near-apocalyptic world. Just when you think the story is a bit average and typical, abeit 
 a very unique version of average and typical, the game goes all MGS2 on you and starts getting 
 all freaky and referring to "the game", and of course this is after the game stops being about 
 a murder and starts being about an ancient religion.
  The characters are the most realistic, likable characters in any game to date. Lucas is your typical 
 average guy turned murderer turned superhero. Taylor fits the bill of street smart comic relief 
 sidekick Officer, while Carla is your stereotypical hot born-for-the-police-force woman. Despite 
 the fact that most characters fit into cookie cutter archetypes, they all feel believable thanks 
 to little quirks, like how Taylor's always complaining about being tired and cold, while Carla's 
 a bit of the Obsessive type in addition to being Claustrophobic. You will grow very, very attached 
 to these characters, and you will really want to find out what happens to them.
  The Graphics in this game are extremely good (I am playing this game on a High-End PC, just so 
 you know where my view is from) . The character models are well made, and while the environments 
 are a bit bland, they are well thought out. Also, I live in New York, and it doesn't really remind 
 me of home. This seems like it was more crafted to meet the game, which is fine, but they should 
 have made up a city then. My biggest complaint for the graphics though, are that during certain 
 cut-scenes, the edges of the characters may be a bit choppy, but that's about all.
  The sound is even better than the graphics. The effects fit well, and the voice acting is absolutely 
 spectacular. The soundtrack kicks in at just the right moments too, to add drama to an already 
 dramatic scene. Make no mistake, the voice acting in particular is integral to selling the characters, 
 which in turn is integral to selling the story, which is the whole point of the game.
  Now there are some action scenes in the game, but they are really just made with simple mini-games. 
 Whenever your character does something strenuous, you have to play a track and field mini-game. 
 The main mini-game though is a version of Simon Says, and the cool thing is, since the indicators 
 are in the middle of the screen, you can easily see the action in your peripheral vision. It works 
 really well overall. The Adventure game segments are pretty good too, though the Stealth segments 
 involving the Kane kids are more annoying and frustrating than fun. The Resident Evil style tank 
 controls work better than any game before it, partially because that style is more suited to Adventure 
 gameplay than to Action.
  The game is firmly planted on the easy side of the difficulty spectrum, though that is for the 
 best since the story is the main attraction here. Anything other than really easy would frustrate 
 you and keep you from the story. You can expect to take about 8 to 10 hours on your first play-through, 
 though the game is very addictive and may have you playing through the game in one 10 hour sitting 
 like I did. You will also likely spend another few hours playing through some chapters again different 
 ways and getting different endings, and when you factor in how much this game will stick with you, 
 you get a whole lot of value for your $20. You can also unlock bonuses ranging from production 
 movies to artwork, so that'll keep you busy for a bit, even if they are ridiculously easy to unlock.
 
  In the end, Indigo Prophecy truly lets you play a movie. A movie with a very engaging storyline 
 that will stay with you for a very long time. If you plan on playing the PC version, and don't 
 mind downloading the game from a website like direct2drive. com, you may want to play Fahrenheit 
 instead, which is the version I played. Fahrenheit is the original uncut version of the game. It 
 is also the European version and game name. It is mostly the same game, but with the two sex scenes 
 intact (one is a hot coffee style mini game) . That version is rated AO in America, so beware if 
 you're under 18 (Ironically, I am 14, but I have strong morals, so I got that version as a way 
 of protesting the censorship in Indigo Prophecy in America. Fight the Power!) . It also has a more 
 intriguing name, though I don't get why they named it Fahrenheit, and then showed the temperature 
 in Celsius! That is not necessary to enjoy the game though. The fact is this game is a Revolution 
 that will no doubt have other games following in it's footsteps. This game deserves a sequel, whether 
 it is a true sequel or a totally different game with the same mechanics, though I have become so 
 attached to the characters in this game that I really want to see a true sequel. This game will 
 truly get you thinking, and will remain in your mind for a long time to come.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smartass21
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 4, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Indigo Prophecy (I thought it was named Fahrenheit) is a great RPG game about a guy Lucas Kane 
 which gets possessed a kills a guy . You will have to find out what happened to him .You will also 
 play as two cops which are trying to solve the murder . 
  The game is like a cinematic in which you decide how its going to be like .The story line is great.
 
  The graphics are good but they could be better .I liked the music of the game ,its incredible 
 .
  The game is too short ,I finished it in five hours ,in two days .The game left me a good impression 
 an d I recommend you buy it . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 483paul
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 25, 2006 9:57 pm PT
Review:  This game has become an instant classic in my opinion. Its a first of this type i've played. I 
 hope they continue the story with more games.
  
  Plot: The game story takes place with a character Lucas Kane who commits a murder. You play as 
 Lucas and two cops, Carla and Tyler, who are trying to solve the murder and catch the killer. There 
 are some other characters you will play as well but these are the main 3. Its very interesting 
 and fun to play the killer and the cops.
  
  Gameplay: This game is like a choose your own adventure book. If you enjoy watching cinematics 
 in a video game you'll enjoy this game. Its like watching a long cinematic and you make choices 
 along the way. Its pretty cool how many choices you can make and how it changes the out come of 
 the game. Which is great for replay value. If you don't watch cinematics in games and just want 
 to blow **** up this game isn't for you. This game has an amazing story line. It kinda reminds 
 me of metal gear solid game. A great story line, lots of cinematics, and not much game play but 
 still a great game!
  
  Graphics: I played the PC version. I could tell it was toned down graphics wise because it was 
 also made for consoles. So it kinda felt like i was playing a PS2 game. But they still did an amazing 
 job with the graphics and animations. They used real actors for the animations. And the characters 
 look and act believable. So much that you really start to like the characters. 
  
  Sound: The music for the game is amazing! i would say sound is the best quality in Indigo Prophecies. 
 Voice acting is great! And they did a good job syncing the mouth with the voice.
  
  The game is short. I beat the game just under 8 hours. Mind you i sat down on a saturday and played 
 it for 6 hours straight. This game is immersive. But i felt it was a good length. I didn't leave 
 wanting more or feeling cheated. There are some unlocks after beating the game. Some behind the 
 scenes of the creation of Indiglo Prophecies.
  
  I just hope they will continue the series and make more Indigo Prophecies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: braiton7786
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2006 11:51 pm PT
Review:  I am not going to write a lot. It is great game and everybody should play!! Its great RPG with 
 great story line. Of cease game have interesting controls I can really say it was bad or good. 
 I am telling all my friends to play it. Story starts..... On the other hand play the game and find 
 twists and turns and I am sure you love this game. There are no games I never pass. I play hardest 
 RPG games. From many games I played this game has one of the best story lines. I tell you this 
 way if you like lot of action, lit a bit of fiction this RPG for you. Honestly, they should make 
 a movie trilogy out of this. Of course you're going to love some of the little movie references 
 that will catch your eye/ear. I also thing they should create sequence and who knows maybe they 
 will. I played this game 3 times and I did have bored. So, if you haven't played this one, I strongly 
 recommend you do it. Play it, you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultrazone
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 22, 2006 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Ok so i finally got around to playing this one. --------------- First off, i have to point out 
 how it remeinds me of shenmue... mainly because its and adventure game, and it heavily uses a variation 
 of the QTE from Shenmue. Now you'd think that an adventure game would be all investigating and 
 story... no action. Far from it, this game has some of hte best action sequences i've seen... yes, 
 they are kind of scripted, but they're on par with the Matrix... particularly your later confrontations. 
 Voice acting in this game is wonderful, some of the best i've ever heard. And it approaches that 
 game very cinematiclally... its 10-12 hour game, but instead of feeling like you played 10 hours 
 worth of game, you feel like you watched a really good, long movie. Story line is great, best one 
 i've come across in ages. Some things could've been better explained in the story line, but they 
 weren't too essential. Pacing is good too, you dont feel like you're just lost and trying to figure 
 out what to do next... you're always given some kind of helpful nudge. Honesly, they should make 
 a movie trilogy out of this. Of course you're gonna love some of hte little movie references that 
 will catch your eye/ear. Watch for a guy who looks like Elvis later into the game. Anyways, this 
 was just a great game. Looks pretty good too... character models and textures along with the animations... really 
 nice. Soundtrack rocks in this one. Also, If you go to Direct2Drive, they offer a Directors Cut 
 version of it (basically the unedited Euro one) which offers moment of nudity, and i'm not sure 
 what else... for its the only version i played... rather play it as it was meant to be. So, if you 
 haven't played this one, play it, you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grysh
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 19, 2006 6:23 am PT
Review:  Great Story - Great Characters - Great graphics and music - Sexy -Engrossing
  Then you insult us by giving us Space Invader Game Play - I mean push the red, yellow, green or 
 blue buttons or A&D as fast as you can and follow the glowing ball? This happens while your trying 
 to answer some very serious and intelligent questions or trying to make love to a beautiful woman 
 or just trying to follow the great story line - it really cheapened the game for me. If your making 
 a game with an adult rating intelligent story PLEASE!!! leave the arcade childish crap OUT! Make 
 up your minds who you're trying to aims this at - Adults who are looking for a intelligent, sexy 
 adventure or - kids who play arcade games who in most cases would be underage to play this game. 
 Also a game which involves you in search and find sequences should allow the player to have complete 
 control of the viewing angle - very frustrating when you can't see where you're going.
  STORY - 10
  CHARACTERS - 10
  GRAPHICS - 9
  MUSIC - 9
  STABILITY - 10
  HI END SETTINGS 
 - 10
  CONTROLS - 2 What a Shame 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kristian56
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 5, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games u will get when u start playing it the first thing you notice is 
 the nice graphics music and some of the best voice acting around. The one bad thing was it was 
 to short but that is the only thing I had a problem with i enjoyed every second of the game. The 
 game requieded you to do many things with it neva being the same i would recomend this game to 
 any of you who love there games with an awsome story. This is a must buy.... what you waiting for 
 go buy it :) .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oscgro
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 29, 2006 2:50 am PT
Review:  May contain spoilers........
  
  Ok so this is my first review on Gamespot and it maynot be the best on here, but hey reviews are 
 matters of opinion and here's mine!.
  
  Fahrenheit (indigo prophecy) is an extremely hard game to summarise as to why I love it so much. 
 
  
  1. Yes the story descends into what can only be called farce
  2. Yes the Simon says and button mashing doesnt lend itself to the genre
  3. The cause and effect 
 options arent as in depth as they could be
  
  Yet having said all the above I cant help but think this is one of the best games in my collection. 
 I think firstly the story - up until the twist - is extremely immersive. The opening scene is drama 
 fuelled, the scene in the bedroom where the policeman is arriving is exciting, the scene in the 
 park with the boy and the river is full of tension. I feel that the characters are developed well 
 and the interaction between all of them pleased me. This also leads me to another point, I really 
 enjoyed playing the game through a number of characters. Again I know this has been done elsewhere 
 (Tribes Vengeance to name but one) but here it really DOES add to the story, knowing that you are 
 seeing it from all sides and how much of an impact you want to have.
  
  The story is intriguing and kept me playing to the end (even after the aforementioned twist) , and 
 I felt that after a while the Simon says type elements blended into the action and I actually forgot 
 the fact that I hated the idea of it!. 
  
  Graphics. Initially I didn't think the graphics were up to much, but once you get into the story 
 the grainy bland graphics actually added to the feeling of being in a frozen nightmare where things 
 were happening beyond my control.
  
  Sound. I really enjoyed the soundtrack to this game, there is plenty of music that accompany the 
 action/background and all seem to reflect what happens onscreen.
  
  Gameplay. The game didn't take long to pick up, If you can get past the button sequence aspects 
 you can slip right into playing the game without fuss. There are a number of action scenes to get 
 the heart racing too, these are fantastic, the scene in the church, the car chase, the scene in 
 your office. I could go on but you would get bored.
  
  Replay. This is where the game could possibly fall down. For me it doesn't, I have enjoyed it so 
 much that I am playing through it for , well I don't know how many times, but if the finale of 
 the story affected you that much, or you are strongly against the Simon says sequences you wont 
 play it again. However I have enjoyed going through the game trying out different actions and dialogue 
 threads.
  
  Ultimately I feel the production levels on the game were great, no other game, with the exception 
 of the Max Payne series, has pulled me into it so whole heartedly as this. Even the extras and 
 the introductory tutorial level made me laugh and think  yep this game was worth it.
  
  Adventures are definitely my game, games that have a great story are definitely my game. So in 
 this game I have both elements, and this is why 6 months later I am still playing Fahrenheit. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redjack443
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 25, 2006 4:54 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The controls aren't hard to get used to and quite unique, but it still feels a bit unwieldy 
 on PC, when playing it with a keyboard.
  It has enough variation. There is walking around an investigating, split-screen view and trigger-sequences.
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics aren't spectacular, but they get the job done. The main characters look 
 good an are skillfully animated, but the rest isn't that good. I consider it a plus that there 
 isn't an oversized UI in view constantly.
  
  Sound: The voice-acting is really, REALLY good. The musical score isn't remarkable, but it works.
 
  
  Value: Although it is an adventure, there are multiple ways of doing things.
  
  ***Minor Spoiler warning***
  
  When you find yourself near the corpse in the beginning, you 
 can choose to rush out, or to hide the corpse, clean the blood etc.
  
  ***End Spoilers***
  
  This makes every playthrough a bit different although there is no big 
 difference.
  
  Overall: It is a game with a very good story and gameplay. But you shouldn't play this if you don't 
 like adventures or RPG's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: destiny_blade
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 25, 2006 9:42 am PT
Review:  a very difficult game to explain but one of the straangest yet most enjoyable games ive ever played
 
  gameplay: i do strongly advise people who intend to but this for there pc to buy a dual analog 
 control as some of the scenes are very hard to complete without one and sometimes even with one. 
 as i said in the intro it feels like a completely different blend of things, fantastically choregraphed 
 fight scenes, gruelling murder mysteries, and split scene drama. allow me to give you an example 
 of the split scene drama, its at the begining of the game so no real spoilers: you are in a stereotypical 
 american diner the camera pans into the toilets you see a man washing up after he has finished 
 urinating, and a man in the toilet stall with a knife he walks out kind of stumbling and you see 
 a flash of a man in a circle of candles making the same movements anyway the guy who is walking 
 oddly kills the man who was washing up suddenly the man who killed him comes to and realised that 
 he has just killed a man, the camera splits the main character called lucas and a police officer 
 in the other half of the diner so you now path your own destiny every action has a consequence 
 you can hide the body mop up the blood get rid of the murder weapon and calmly leave or you can 
 run out like a lunatic. it really is quite innotive. it has to be played or seen though to really 
 understand it i guess.
  graphics: ugly then beautiful, when you are playing as the main character and say they go and get 
 a drink no liquid will come out and then you will see the beautifully choreogrefored fight scene 
 it really does jump from one to the other.
  sound: i do think perfect is an overused word nowaydays but the music really is flawless, it perfectly 
 portrays the mood of the character and the scene.
  value: the main story lasted me about 18 hours not amazingly long and not that short, but the main 
 thing is that you can repaly the game three times and get three completely different endings, the 
 are also another two alternative endings so its not a short as some people lead you to belive.
 
  
  negatives: at the point n click moments (not actually point and click, but somewhat like it) some 
 really bad controls, dodgey visuals at times.
  overall: very differnt but makes it all the better, if you are looking for a different game but 
 something thats special then i strongly recomend fahrenheit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karlazeo
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 25, 2006 6:17 am PT
Review:  Indigo prophecy is a game what really grows on you. From the first 10 minutes you can't wait whats 
 coming up.
  
  You start as Lucas Kane a man who works in a computer company. Lucas Kane commits a murder for 
 unknows reasons. He feels that he didn't do it and he feels like he was posessed. You therefore 
 have find out what happened to Lucas Kane and why and also you have to evade the police and remove 
 cles what could lead the police to you. 
  
  You also have to play a police role in the game, where you have to find clues to find the murderer. 
 There also is an RPG element to the game where you have to make quick thiking for your response. 
 Also you have to take part in cut scenes where you have to press designated buttons at the right 
 time. 
  
  From my personal opinion it's a game worth playing but it takes a matrix theme in the last part 
 of the which really is getting dull. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RichieR02
Rating: 9
Date: May 24, 2006 5:10 pm PT
Review:  If there was anything about this game that makes it totally worth buying it's the story line. This 
 game had one of the best story lines in a game that I've ever played, it could have been a movie 
 and a good one at that.
  
  Although the game wasn't really that challenging in terms of gameplay and puzzle solving, the game 
 totally made up with that from the great story and presentation of the game.
  
  A really enjoyable game.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Not a awful lot of challenging gameplay in the 
 game but what there was of it was done really well and polished.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  Graphic weren't overly amazing but the cut scenes were done extremely well and looked rather impressive 
 while pressing the sequences XD.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  Sound was good, lip sinking was good, and sound generally gave the game the feel that it should 
 through the story line.
  
  Value: 10/10
  Simply I gave this 10 because of the Really, and I mean REALLY good story line of the game. I wasn't 
 overly long but the story line makes the game more than worth it.
  
  RT: 10/10
  Story Line again :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sherifelgohary
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 21, 2006 5:21 am PT
Review:  General/Summary:
  Indigo Prophecies was developed by the French developer Quqntic Dream, the creators of another 
 highly original game called Omikron: The Nomad Soul, which came out for the Dreamcast and PC almost 
 six years ago.
  
  Strangely, there are many things in common between these two games. They are (a) first class voice 
 acting and music, (b) most of the game occurs in people's living quarters and workplaces, (c) realistic 
 motion captured 3D animation, (d) an original basic game play mechanic, (e) real world scanned 
 texture mapping, and (f) a strange fascination with restrooms and male characters urinating in 
 those restrooms.
  
  In fact, the game begins in a public restroom, and throughout the game power ups will be found 
 in other restrooms, the story line will be advanced in restrooms, and male characters can get a 
 health boost by taking a leak in the many restrooms presented throughout the story.
  
  Indigo Prophecies is similar to other attempts at interactive cinema that have been made over the 
 years. But it also has a lot in common with point and click adventures such as Broken Sword or 
 Syberia. The main difference is the time factor. During the game, events are occurring in a given 
 time frame, and the character you are controlling must make a choice about his course of action 
 in a limited time which will affect the course of the game.
  
  Unfortunately, Indigo Prophecies suffers from some game play contrivances that seem to be added 
 as part of a failed attempt to make the game more interesting. Chief among these is the addition 
 of a Simon-like game play element. For those who may not know, Simon was an early electronic game 
 in which colored lights flashed in a patterned sequence, and you had to press colored buttons to 
 match that sequence.
  
  In Indigo Prophecies, this Simon clone occurs as a screen overlay where a graphic representation 
 of the DualShock controller obscures the screen action. The left and right analog sticks are color 
 coded up, down, left and right, and these colors flash in a given sequence and the player is to 
 push the sticks in the same sequence as they are displayed.
  
  The game would have benefitted greatly without this stupid addition. You obviously cannot follow 
 screen action while having to watch the Simon clone overlay, and having to focus your attention 
 on the Simon clone distracts you from the puzzle solving and decision making necessary to advance 
 in the game. The game has an autosave feature so that if you do screw up the Simon game play, you 
 can redo it as many times as necessary. But it is still an asinine addition obviously added as 
 an "innovative" feature.
  
  It is unfortunate that this was added to the game, because without it Indigo Prophecies would have 
 been an enjoyable title. The presentation is good, and the game invites you into it's bizarre pee 
 based world in a very seductive manner. Despite the fixation on restrooms and urination, the game 
 is intelligently done and is a refreshing change from standard video game adventuring.
  
  Once the price drops on this game, you may want to give it a try. For $20 it's worth a gamble for 
 the gamer looking for something different. For $40 it's a rip, however.
  
  Gameplay:
  Imagine a point and click adventure, but instead of moving a cursor around the screen, clickable 
 items are proximity based depending on their distance from your moving characters. So, you move 
 your character around in the 3D environment, and as he/she moves within distance of different objects 
 in the scene, you are alerted to interact with them by flashing text. Doing so initiates a predestined 
 sequence of events.
  
  Beyond just collecting items, you are often given a choice of several different courses of action 
 within a short time frame. This is indicated by an countdown gauge at the top of the screen.
  
  This is combined with a two or even three active screen composite view of different events 
 in different places occurring at the same time. You use this feedback to guide your actions.
  
  Graphics:
  The imagery is well done, with very nice texture mapping and realistic motion 
 captured animation. However, there are serious camera control issues, such as the perspective view 
 switching to an entirely different angle without warning. Also, there is no way to tell if you 
 are looking at a cut scene or if you are in an interactive part of the game.
  
  So, for instance, you'll be walking your character along, and without warning, he'll start doing 
 his own pre-programmed thing.
  
  Also, it's possible to find yourself behind a pillar or door with your view obscured. this happens 
 quite a bit.
  
  Sound:
  The voice acting is awesome, as is the music (Theory of a Dead Man) and ambient sounds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MVBDX
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 25, 2006 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Farenheit or Indigo Prophecy Is the Very Good Game For Start Next Generation Of Adventure Game.
 
  But Heavy Rain Is Better That.
  Because You Can Go to QuanticDream Website & Give the Picture & Movie From that. David Cage Can 
 Make New Adventure Game & We Are Hope!
  I Hope You Can Down the Movie In This Site And Look This Movie.
  This Game Is Make For Next Generation 
 Consoles And I Have Very ...
  Because ,My Favorite Next Consoles Is Revolution (Wii) And This Game Created For Ps3
  I Hope David 
 Cage Make Game with WII & Winner the Award Creation Games.
  Thank You From Read My Comment.
  Good Luck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fadi_S
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 7, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  This is the one of the best adventure games i have ever played , maybe it makes #2 . if you like 
 adventure games , and if you like movies .. just go for this game , it'll be perfect for you .
 
  
  When i first started playing i didnt know what's this game about , and had a little trouble with 
 controls and stuff , but i managed it later . and it turned to be a very good adventure game with 
 a great story told in a movie style . even in the way the camera moves you can feel yourself in 
 move , sometimes horror movies , police , action , romance....
  
  In the game you control 3 main characters : Lucas Kane , Detectives Carla Valenti and Tyler Miles 
 . In some parts you will do some challenges like play basketball , gym (weights , push-ups , climbing 
 a robe , kick-boxing) . You control the games with keyboard (mainly arrows and number pad) and with 
 the mouse.
  
  The graphics are great , so is the sound .
  
  This is a great game , and you should get it whether you like adventure games or you like movies 
 , or both !!!
  
  RECOMMENDED 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robzonew
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 6, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  Indigo Prophecy parte de una premisa simple: todo lo que hagas en el presente altera substancialmente 
 tu futuro. Y es que por lo general estamos acostumbrados a jugar con ideas planas o lineales, donde, 
 en beneficio a la economa (de tiempo, dinero y desarrollo) las opciones se ven limitadas a hacer 
 esto aqu, o no seguir. 
  
  Indigo Prophecy viene a romper con ese ciclo. Su desarrollo es simple de concebir: Es una pelcula. 
 Tal cual. Slo que, claro, es una pelcula que no est completamente escrita, ya que es uno el 
 que maneja las desiciones de los 3 personajes principales y uno que otro secundario. As, la historia 
 se desarrolla a partir de un extrao asesinato, con una clara idea de ritual religioso, en el que 
 Lucas Kane, el protagonista, se ve directamente implicado. De aqu, la investigacin que desarrolla, 
 el mismo Lucas respecto de los motivos que lo llevan a matar, y de los detectives a cargo, Carla 
 Valenti y Tyler, produce una serie de eventos que desembocan en un final distinto para cada uno 
 de los jugadores.
  
  Con algunos problemas de jugabilidad, producidos principalmente por bugs (existe un patch para 
 esto) , las grficas de juego, y la cinemtica se confunde en un desarrollo de texturas realista, 
 al nivel de los mejores juegos actuales, pero liviano de correr, por lo que los tiempos de espera 
 de carga y el desempeo general de un computador con los requisitos mnimos no pone carga alguna 
 al jugador.
  
  Un sonido excepcional, con la mejor banda de sonido que he escuchado en mucho tiempo, constituye 
 una nota de distincin en el desarrollo del juego, logrando poner la intriga y la emocin que cada 
 escena requiere.
  
  Por ltimo, el sistema de bonus que trae hace mucho ms interesante el explorar reas "perdidas" 
 del juego, o donde supondramos que no existe inters, haciendo todo el escenario de juego til, 
 recorrible e utilizable.
  
  En una palabra, genial. Juego completamente recomendable y cautivante. De hecho, no me extraara 
 ver pronto a Hollywood interesado en el guin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dusanikus
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 4, 2006 2:50 am PT
Review:  Thing are never what they seems to be. We think we understand the world around us but we only see 
 the outside of it. People like to believe in comercals , news, humanity.... but one day reality 
 kicks you in a teeth, and you heave no other choice then to see and believe the truth. This story 
 of game follows just a an ordinary guy which something unordinary happens.
  
  It all happen in New York, the capitol of the universe. On one cold January night in 2011 in a 
 Joe's dinner, Lucas Keain computer technical in a bank, commits a murder. As we see he was obviously 
 possessed by someone, he suddenly got to him self and realize what heave he done. That first animation 
 in Fahrenheit and you starts a game here. Then screen splits on two parts (like in 24 ) . On first 
 half we see Lucas ,confused with bloody knife in his arms and dead body under him, and on another 
 half a cop drinks his hot coffee. What to do clean the mess, and leave like nothing happens? Run 
 like mad living the scene of murder? Goon insane? Turn your self in ? So many things so little 
 time. One of the best thing in Fahrenheit is CHOIS, its always looks like you are controlling the 
 story of a game .You must think fast, react fast, if you want to survive. Thats all thanks to 
 good story, good replay valleys, and even better atmosphere. You can switch characters any time 
 you want (okey, almost any time) when you play as detectives Carla Valenti and Tyler Miles (As same 
 time you play as hunter and a prey) . So every action has its reaction. Every time you discover 
 more with detective nooseis getting stronger for Lucas. 
  Movement in game is far different then in other games, accept in normal parts of it. In action 
 parts you play you using arrows on keyboard and at num pad numbers 4 ,2, 6 and 8. Main thing is 
 to click the right key at a right time (something like in DDR, dance , dance revolution) . This 
 thing is as innovated as fun. Atmosphere is like in 24 when two story happens at a same time a 
 screen splits, and atmosphere becomes far more tens. Story is like in Shakespeare books (and lots 
 of Shakespeare books you can find in game like "The Tempest"," Richard III"....) , main character 
 is faced to fight for his believes against all. The only difference is that most of character survives 
 in the end, and at Shakespeare that s different, and Fahrenheit was first novel.
  Graphics are nothing splendid but its enough good for this kind of games. It will grasp and get 
 sharper as Lucas feels and follow the atmosphere pretty good with lots of effects.
  Music is excellent, the world famous compositor Angelo Badalmanti (guy who creates music in Lynch 
 movies Blue Velvet, Twin Peaks, Mullholand drive) who did for two main characters themes and lots 
 of side effects in movies.
  Only bad thing in this game is camera which sometime is in very bad place. It can strees you sometime.
 
  
  Atmosphere and game is what makes this game so good, its good after long time of stereotypes game 
 like GTA to see one good think and deep games. If there is more this kind of games world will be 
 a better place.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerith65
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 1, 2006 10:38 pm PT
Review:  Indigo Prophecy, by Quantic Dream:
  Action/Adventure
  
  When your first take a look at this game you might think "wow, just another game that should just 
 be a movie." This was also the first impession I had. In fact I did not even get into this game 
 until I figured out more about the story. But you would only be partially right when thinking that. 
 First off, before diving into the different gameplay, music, graphics, and all that, anyone reading 
 this game should probably know that this isnt a game for everybody. I personally enjoyed this game 
 almost every second. There were a few sketchy parts that I'll explain later. This game is not for 
 everyone because of one main reason, you are either a person who enjoys stories, or enjoys action. 
 This game delivers on both, but to an extent some people will not agree with. Basically the short 
 is, if your a hardcore RTS/FPS  fan, then you might not get 
 as much out of this game then most. But if you enjoy a really good , in-depth story, this is the 
 game for you.
  
  Without giving the story away, i'm going to tell you what your basically told, or see in the very 
 beginning. Lukas Kain, is just a person in the wrong place at the wrong time. He finds himself 
 in a Diner after work one night, and, without knowing, commits a murder in the restroom of this 
 Diner, but not before carving some strange symbols into his own forearms. He stabs this victum 
 in this sort of wierd trance. All of the sudden Kain wakes up and realizes what has happened. This 
 is when you will see the first act of Mood in the game. This is a unique gameplay machanic that 
 serves this particular game very well. Whenever something dramatic or hurtful happens, your mood 
 bar goes down. Doing normal things like, drinking milk, washing your face ect... Gives back mood. 
 The highest the bar can go is to Neutral, and the Lowest is Wrecked. When the bar reaches zero, 
 the game ends, and you have to restart from the earliest game save. A point of interest here is 
 that you never have to actually manually save this game, all of that is taken care of in what seems 
 to be, good distances. Although these "moods" don't seem to affect your character at all, it serves 
 as an extra strategy to completing the game in different ways, and this is a good thing to look 
 at because there are Three Different endings to this game, I have yet to unlock One.
  
  Like I said above, this game is not for everyone, and this is why. Throughout the game, all of 
 the action sequences are not played. Instead there is a Mini game, that works perfectly in this 
 game I might add, that shows up on the screen. To my suprise, this actually didnt disrupt you so 
 much so that you couldnt see whats going around in the backround. These mini games consist of Physical 
 Labor, Breathing, Balance, and Actions. The Action mini game is what you will be seeing the most 
 of. It resembles Simon Says, accept in this there are lights on the screen, and basically two boards. 
 The lights will light, and you press up, down, left , or right on two different sets of directional 
 pads, when that specific light was up. For example, if red was up, and the left pad's red lit up, 
 i would press up, and so on until this sequence ends. If you mess up in one of these action sequences, 
 you lose a life most likely, although in some cases ( without giving away any more of the story 
 ) you dont lose a life, and instead you dont hear the thoughts of others. In other words , your 
 character sometimes has premenitions to sort of help you through the game. There are some frustrating 
 parts to this game, that seem like they were just fillers. But you soon get right back to the main 
 storyline, and feel much better.
  
  Graphically this game isnt the best. Animations, or particles dont seem to exist half the time 
 in this game, and I might add it looks a little wierd when two characters (no names) kiss eachother. 
 But other then that, the game world looks and feels like a real city, or apartment, or wherever 
 this game takes you.
  
  The environment is a very big thing in this game. The way you interact with things is an inovation 
 in itself. Whenever there is something to interact with, a small symbol of the object appears at 
 the top of the screen. Next to it is the motion in which to activate this object. No more pressing 
 just one button here, instead you have to move your mouse, or joystick while holding down the action 
 button and move your mouse down a path. At first this seems crazy, but it becomes second nature, 
 and doesnt effect the gameplay at all once you get a little further. There are plenty of things 
 to interact with, and then again, there are things you wish you could interact with, but can't, 
 but this doesnt make any impact on the game at all.
  
  The only things I would have to say I disliked about this game was the camera for one. This is 
 probably the biggest issue in the game. The Camera will almost always get stuck on walls, or be 
 in a wierd position. Not that this does'nt make the game look bad, because in a sense, this is 
 a video game / movie , so the camera will always give the game a great cinamatic feel. But still 
 nonetheless, you sometimes cannot see what you want to , or need to see or be doing. The other 
 somewhat dissapointing feature lies in the end of the story. There is just a huge, and in some 
 cases, long buildup to this climactic end. But it seems to be too rushed. BUT, this is not a bad 
 thing, the game still remains to have one of the best stories I have ever seen in a video game.
 
  
  Throughout the game you play as three characters. Whats interesting about this game, is that you 
 play as Kain, the murder. Then it the game takes you to two other characters, cops. So you play 
 the murderer, and the people trying to solve Kains murder case. This adds a great amount of intensity 
 to the game, especially when these characters find things that you might have done with the other. 
 This adds a great amount of replay value to the game. Yes, you heard me, to adventure fans, this 
 game could keep you busy for a while, since the game has a bunch of unlockable features, like songs, 
 movies, and clip art, you could be busy for a while, and the fact that the story might be better 
 the second time you play though just because you know what to do. I know I might play though again 
 in spite of that, so that I get more story in one run.
  
  The total gameplay time of this took me about 6-8 hours, and the game deffinately shouldnt take 
 you more then 10, or your doing something wrong. The game is never actually hard, with the exception 
 of a book finding mystery, and some action sequences. But you should never actually be "Stuck" 
 in this game. Even if you were stalled for some minutes, it wouldnt take you to long with some 
 common sense to figure out what this puzzle is, and then your back to the main story.
  
  The sound in this game is actually quite good. Since this is a game, some of the actual licensed 
 musics seem a bit out of place, but some do not and fit perfectly into the scene. Everything has 
 great sound from opening drawers, to picking up paper, or clicking a remote, every sound seems 
 perfectly timed with the actions on screen.
  
  Indigo Prophecy for the Pc, Xbox, and Ps2 has a great story thats sure to keep you on your toes, 
 and wanting more. The gameplay, and controls of the action sequences seem a bit odd at first, but 
 really fit, and make you really feel like even though your just playing a rythym type game, that 
 your really controlling these sequences. In short, this is an adventure fans must buy, and its 
 worth checking out for anyone who has been wanting a great story.
  
  - Jeff Fabre 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryaz_weaponx
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 30, 2006 4:37 am PT
Review:  STORY  The game revolves around the life of Lucas Kane, an ordinary man who suddenly, out of his 
 senses kills a man he does not know. Lucas commits the murder in a very weird & ritualistic way. 
 After the murder he comes back to his senses. Shocked & disturbed Lucass purpose is now to evade 
 the cops & find out the reasons behind his actions. On the other hand a series of murders have 
 been reported & in the same way as that of Kanes. The same night Detective Carla Valenti & Taylor 
 miles arrive on the crime scene & thats where the mysteries begin to unravel.
  
  SOUND  The music, sound effects & voice actings are so beautifully carried out that I have to 
 admit, that its one off the best Ive ever heard. Each musical score suits its respective scene 
 & not to mention its voice actings. The soundtrack also features songs by Ben. E. King, Theory of 
 a dead man, to name a few.
  
  GRAPHICS  The graphics are pretty good, neat & clear cut. You wont notice the difference between 
 the transitions from the cut scene to gameplay. All in all theyre pretty good but nothing to boast 
 about.
  
  GAMEPLAY  Now this is something you have to know about. What makes the games gameplay so different? 
 Well the developers have termed it Interactive movie. Throughout, you wont feel as if youre 
 playing a game, youll feel as if youre controlling the storytelling of a movie. The whole environment 
 makes you feel as if youre sitting in your seat & watching a Hollywood flick. You control 3 main 
 characters, Lucas Kane, Carla Valenti & Taylor Miles, all accordingly switch to the story line. 
 In short you play the hunter as well as the hunted. The games design is like none youve played 
 before. For starters you dont have a normal health meter, instead you have youre mental health 
 status. For example if youre character is in trouble or hears a shocking news hell start getting 
 depressed to get him back to normal you can eat, play music, take a shower, etc. The game switches 
 at time between third person & first person mode. In the game theres a lot you can do from some 
 brilliant fight scenes, chases, interacting, exploring, investigating crime scenes & a lot more. 
 The game has an amazing storyline which grips you from the beginning but fails to convince towards 
 the end. A few situations & characters remain unexplained & thrown in for the sakes, making it 
 the games weakest point.
  
  PROS  Unique gameplay, Amazing sound, Good story ( at least 80% of it) , Well portrayed characters, 
 Brilliant voice actings & a lot of suspense. A Variety of good unlockables.
  
  CONS  A disappointing end to a great story, few elements remain unexplained, camera at times can 
 be a pain.
  
  VERDICT  Looking aside its weak points INDIGO PROPHECY is still one of the most unique games youll 
 ever play
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soul_666
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 30, 2006 3:38 am PT
Review:  Yes, it could have been longer and yes, the story gets a little bit weird in the last hour. It's 
 tight atmosphere and well developed characters, however, create a unique gaming experience I don't 
 want to miss anymore.
  The controls during the action sequences could have been better or lets just say different, but 
 Indigo Prophecy is despite of it all one of the best computer games ever made.
  
  The story, if you ignore a few things, is right there with the best of it's genre. Also, Indigo 
 Prophecy adds erotic sequences to the list of things what a good story has to be made of. Those 
 sequences were not forced into the game, however, like in Leisure Suit Larry for example. They 
 feel well integrated in the story and make the game so much more mature. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J5550123
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 28, 2006 11:55 am PT
Review:  Indigo Prophecy is about a simple man that was in the wrong place at the wrong time. He has murdered 
 a man in the bathroom of a diner.
  
  In this game you play as Lucas Kane. The graphics in this game are great. The gameplay is new, 
 and great. It is some of the best fun I have ever had playing a game. This won't take you too long 
 to get used to, and on your first run, it will at least take you about twenty hours to beat the 
 game. After that, you will get faster and better at beating the game. I hope that there is a sequel 
 to this, as it is great. Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Muriel_01
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 27, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  The idea of leaving point-and-click-territory for adventures and creating a completely new interface 
 made me curious. But this game is as boring as it is weird. A strange story with a LOT of missing 
 plots left the player with more questions than answers. And what begun as really interesting developed 
 over the hours into the atmosphere of a cheap B-Movie. Everything one can think of was placed within 
 this game: conspiracies for taking over the world prophecies of some kind of pure child (like Jesus??) , 
 aliens, nightmares, crows (like in the Crow - Brandon Lee - Movie) ... this is a mix- up of everything 
 one can think of. Very dissapointing. 
  The graphic isn't too good, faces are made very professional with mimics, moving eyes, eyebrows 
 and lips but the rest looks like taken from quake 2-engine. 
  If you aren't moving the leading characters (three!) around you have to hack your keyboard like 
 a mad to survive little actions - like in the time of C64-olympics where you were rattling your 
 joystick like crazy. Thats just stupid. And whilst trying to watch the "really good" action scenes 
 you have to press coloured buttons (like this senso game) so fast that your're missing all the 
 stuff.
  You aren't able to make savegames. Just automatic savepoints. And if you forget to turn autosave 
 on you can start everything from be beginning the next time you like to play. Just great!
  
  I was very unfortunate to play the european version because of several sex-scenes within the 
 game (those were deletet for the us-market) . And moving your mouse rythmically to the nude persons 
 in bed is nothing more than disgusting. If I want to watch something like that I'm going to rent 
 a videotape - but in games? God no, thats just adds more to the bad taste of the developers. What 
 were there thinking whils creating this game? I mean, were they thinking at all?? I don't think 
 so. 
  They tried to make the ultimate and very special adventure. But this game ist nothing more than 
 a desaster!!!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leandro29
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 26, 2006 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Indigo Prophecy is, simply put, one of the greatest and most revolutionary adventure games you 
 will ever play. 
  Anyone who has ever played Indigo Prophecy will find it difficult not to agree that this game 
 represents a revolutionary point not only in the history of the adventure genre, but of all computer 
 games. Being a fan of adventure games, all I can say is that I was simply blown away the first 
 time I played Indigo Prophecy. It truly astonished me how it managed to implement such a cinematic 
 experience into a computer game, something which has never been so successfully accomplished. I 
 cannot recall ever playing a game that looked and felt so much like a real movie, which is why 
 I believe that Indigo Prophecy is so innovative.
  
  As if the combination between a game and a film wasnt enough to impress me, Indigo Prophecy 
 also manages to introduce certain elements that would be more specific to the action genre. By 
 actually controlling the main character in fights against supernatural entities and in running 
 away from the police and from certain giant insects, the game manages to successfully assure the 
 flow of the story without distancing itself far from its adventure-based gameplay, by using some 
 very welcome action elements.
  
  The storyline of Indigo Prophecy is another of the games strong points. Even from the very mysterious 
 beginning, the game will captivate you with its genius plot, and it will keep you constantly wondering 
 what will happen next. Personally, what I truly admire are games with stories that are not entirely 
 out of the ordinary  games such as The Sims, or Syberia, which, even though they have genius 
 ideas, are not science-fiction. Most games, however, take a turn towards the supernatural and the 
 fantastic, sooner or later throughout their plot, simply because of the reason that the technology 
 exists to permit this. Indigo Prophecy, in most part, is not like this, which is what I truly 
 admire at this game. It shows that the plot of a game does not need to be science-fiction in order 
 for it to be brilliant. When the story is more ordinary, you somehow feel more attached to a game, 
 which is the case for Indigo Prophecy. The ending, however, does take a turn towards the fantastic, 
 but I still consider it to be well though of.
  
  There are a million different reasons why you should play Indigo Prophecy, even if you arent 
 a fan of adventure games. The cinematic feeling, the action elements and the genius storyline are 
 only a few. This is truly a revolutionary computer game, and not just for the adventure genre, 
 and it should be regarded for no less than what it is: a masterpiece. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KeWLMoNkX
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 24, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  To make this short and simple -- PLAY THIS GAME ... if you are a fan of adventure games, suspense 
 movies, or are just looking for something to do this weekend ... INDIGO PROPHECY is the way to 
 go. This game will take you on an emotional rollercoaster like non other .. I mean, I haven't jumped 
 out of my chair (and skin) due to a video game in quite some time .. until playing this marvelous 
 title. 
  
  Now don't get me wrong ... the graphics aren't 'next gen', and the controls may get a bit frustrating 
 at times, but as far as negatives go -THATS IT-.
  
  Take it from a gamers gamer ... PLAY THIS GAME ... give the DEMO a try ... this is one of those 
 games you will remember through the years.... oh and one more thing 'Your Welcome' : )
  
  ~KeWLMoNk~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isaacmartinblin
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 23, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  Well, I wasn't quite sure what to think after reading many reviews for this game, so I started 
 it with very mixed feelings. On the one hand, others had attested to the greatness of the story 
 and on the other, I'm just not a huge fan of action games. So I bought the game given the success 
 it has had with players outside its supposed genre.
  
  Within the first moments of the game (as soon as I had mastered the controls, which took a bit 
 of time) , I found myself immersed in the stories and characters. The game is set up in such a way 
 that they just drop the story in your lap - they don't ease you into it, at all. Though I can see 
 how this may have ended up for thw worse, it actually ended up being a good thing. Within the first 
 moments, you find yourself in a situation that you need to rectify before a policeman shows up. 
 From this moment onward, the story flows pretty nicely.
  
  If I have any complaints about the game, its that the characters' "mental health" bar was a bit 
 contrived and didn't seem to enhance the gaming experience. Knowing that you can drink some water 
 to improve 5 points to bring you from "tense" to "anxious" wasn't really that special. And yes, 
 there were other drawbacks to the game, but I didn't really feel that they affected me too much. 
 The graphics were nothing special, the story was a little incomplete and the action sequences were 
 sometimes a little repetitious, but overall, I found playing this game an exceptional experience.
 
  
  For someone going out of his normal genre, I would even call the experience refreshing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LAcrima3D
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 13, 2006 10:04 am PT
Review:  
  Fahrennheit is a great game. It grabs you from the beginning like a great movie or a book. My favorite 
 thing about this game is the soundtrack (no wonder when it's Angelo Badalamenti) and the overall 
 atmosphere which is kind of cosy and sad within. The gameplay is interesting and innovative, though 
 it has some leaks. I was disappointed about those action parts where you need to push buttons which 
 are shown on screen, it's a bit childish and it spoils everything. Also in my opinion last third 
 of a game was made anyhow, seemed like creators just wanted to finish it quicker without any care. 
 Anyway it's the best adventure game I've played this last year. Quantic dream once again gain my 
 respect. Hope they'll surprise me with Omikron 2 too 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RAJA_RAMEEZ
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 22, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  This game is far beond anything good, this game has the rights to be called a masterpiece. When 
 i played this game, i found this feeling inside me that made me feel like her.
  indigo pprofecy is one of the greatest games that I've played, I love the adventure and puzzles 
 in this game. this game so great that when i started it playing it just made me stop playing any 
 other game i was thinking about the game all the time .... that makes a great game. offcourse it 
 does but there is nudity in this game so it means no for kids but it is a masterpiece
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xphoenixtheory
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 22, 2006 6:17 am PT
Review:  i love this games its different from other's that wat makes it good if u dont got it get it if 
 ur thinking of getting it buy it its a great game i would give it a 10 the grphics are ok but the 
 point of the game is good i baught it and i love it . and its also funny at times and you can play 
 up to or more different people i reall really great gamehird-person adventure thriller, created 
 by the team behind Omikron, Indigo Prophecy gives gamers the unique chance to play both hunter 
 and fugitive, which in turn leads them to speak, explore, interact, fight and confront unknown 
 dark forces 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 21, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  I was looking forward to this game after reading some pretty favorable reviews but I found the 
 game to be disappointing but still fun. I was expecting a lot of different actions you could take 
 in different situations that would still lead you through the game. Most times the game just ends 
 if you make a mistake. Like say you wanted to drag the body out of the bathroom stall at the beginning 
 and throw it at the cop that would make it interesting instead you have to evade the police somehow. 
 It actually could be a great game that allowed you a lot of freedom in every area but this game 
 does not do that well.. The games graphics I thought were actually pretty good especially the face 
 of the lady detective but the environments some like the winter outdoor ones are pretty dull. The 
 voice acting is pretty decent though not great. The story near the end I thought was kindof stupid. 
 End of the world type stuff.. eternal winter if the indigo child is sacrificed on a certain alter. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawnco413
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2006 10:12 pm PT
Review:  This game, without a doubt in my mind, will go down as one of the greatest adventure games created 
 to date. It has it all, an incredible story which sucks you in from the beginning, and keeps you 
 there until the end. Characters who you will grow attached to, and actually care for. And it does 
 all this while still looking good.
  
  First off, the story, can be summed up in one simple word; Amazing. I was sucked in from the first 
 scene to the last, and it just kept me guessing. If ever there was a game that could be transformed 
 into a movie, this is it. It screamed movie material to me, I just hope that if the developers 
 choose to go this route, they do it properly.
  
  I literally fell in love with the cast of characters. You will honestly grow found of them, and 
 actually care about what happens to them throughout the story. And the fact that you can control 
 what happens in their lives; Genius!
  
  The sanity meter was an awesome feature, which I found to be very clever. Doing something as simple 
 as turning on music, or drinking something, will affect your characters mood! Also the graphics, 
 sure it is nothing to brag home about, but they really give you the proper atmospheric sense. They 
 make you feel like you are there, even without fancy things such as HDR.
  
  And for those of you worried about the control issue, I found that after playing the tutorial, 
 and a quick 15 minutes into the game, I had mastered the technique. But I did change the controls 
 to something I found more comfortable; WASD for movement, and pad1. And the Numpad for pad2.
  
  In summary, this game delivers on all aspects. It pulls you in, and doesn't let go until the 
 end. And it does it all while still being easy on the eyes. A must buy for ALL Gamers, not just 
 adventure gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monowasp
Rating: 1.8
Date: Apr 17, 2006 9:23 am PT
Review:  When will game-makers ever learn? That is the first thing that pop-up in my mind when I first installed 
 this game "Farenheit" or as it also knows as "Indigo Prophecy"...
  
  Firstly, what is good?
  
  The graphics? They are ok... What does ok mean? Compared to Half-Life2 
 it ok, but of course it is not the same genre, and should not be, but the life of a game-designer 
 should still be to make it as attractive as possible...
  
  Story, it's good... Interesting, some strange twists, a strange story, but hell - we play Quake 
 and NOFL, so why think about story too much...
  
  How does it work on PC, it runs smoothly, although the biggest no-no again, is that is another 
 game that has CONSOLE written all over it, doesn't work very well on the keyboard, especially when 
 you have to press hard and fast to save your life in the game...
  
  I got bored with it, I feel it was a waste of money, it ain't worth the trouble at all. Please 
 do make a good game next time will you!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ax2099
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 30, 2006 7:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. Personally, I do not like adventure games at all, but this game drew me in 
 from the first five minutes all the way until the grand finale. The character and object models 
 in the game are realistically modeled and look pretty close to real. This game is also based on 
 reality. For example, if you take certain medication and then proceed to drink Jack Daniels, you 
 will pass out or die due to mixing the two. Also, the main character falls once in the game, and 
 he actually dies instead of miraculously surviving the 100 foot drop. This really helps the storyline 
 along, which is one of the most believable and involving storylines I have ever experienced. The 
 characters are just like real people: they are mean, nice, sweet, harsh, claustrophobic, and neglectful 
 , sometimes all at the same time: just like real people. The gameplay itself is another wonderful 
 addition to this game. You move around and interact with things using the mouse, moving it in tandem 
 with your characters action on the screen. For example, when you open a door inwards, you would 
 move the mouse towards you to correspond to the action. The sound is very atmospheric and the game 
 allows you to fail, or succeed, depending on what you want to do. You also have the ability to 
 go back and replay chapters to change the ending of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speed_devil
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 21, 2006 5:24 am PT
Review:  Indigo Prophecy is a revolution in gaming history! You can form your own story! You have to deside 
 sometimes and you will be on dilemma of wich action is the best to follow!
  
  The story begins in the toilets of a restaurant, when you find yourself with a knife in your hands 
 and a dead body in front of you! You did the murder but you don't know why! That's where the story 
 begins!
  
  The gameplay is different from any other game! Every action needs a combination of controls and 
 movements! A dual analog gamepad is a MUST!
  You must stay focused and care about your moves because if you don't hit the right buttons you're 
 gonna lose!
  
  The sound is very good! Nice effects and voice conversations! The voice acting is perfect! The songs 
 that playing inside the game are in the mood of the story!
  
  Graphics part! Nice visuals and physics! The characters are very well created and animated! The environment 
 is also very well created!
  
  You must buy this game because it has a great storyline and is formed by you! Every action you take, 
 has a reaction! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soheil_m
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 19, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:     
      
     
     
      
    
 
  
  
   :   
     
    
     
     
    
     
      
     
    
      
     
    
    
       
    
     
     
     
     
     
      
    
  
  
  
    :    
     
      
     
     
    
     
     
     
     
     
      
    
     
     
     
    
     
      
     
     
      
     
     
      
     
      
  
  
  
  
   :   
     
     
      
     
     
     
       
     
     
     
  
  
  
  
      
 :     
    
     
      
    
      
      
    
      
    
  
     
     
     
     
       
     
    
     
      
  
  
  
    :   
    
     
     
     
     
      
    
    
  
  
  
   :    
    
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
 
  
  
  :   
     
     
     
     
     
     
      
  
  
  
  
  :    
     
      
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
  
  
  
  
    :    
     
     
       
     
     
    
    
     
     
   
      
     
     
     
     
      
      
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mobily
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 18, 2006 9:57 am PT
Review:  its gret game realy because the story is main of this game 
  a graphics is veryyyyy good
  
  
 
  
  and i reabet evry one see this review i want to tell him to buy this good game
  
  with my love 
  mobily world of my choise
  
  
 
  
  X
  
  X
  
 
  X
  
  X
  
  X
  
 
  X
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
  #
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marius_oltean
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 16, 2006 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who has ever played Indigo Prophecy will find it difficult not to agree that this game 
 represents a revolutionary point not only in the history of the adventure genre, but of all computer 
 games. Being a fan of adventure games, all I can say is that I was simply blown away the first 
 time I played Indigo Prophecy. It truly astonished me how it managed to implement such a cinematic 
 experience into a computer game, something which has never been so successfully accomplished. I 
 cannot recall ever playing a game that looked and felt so much like a real movie, which is why 
 I believe that Indigo Prophecy is so innovative.
  
  As if the combination between a game and a film wasnt enough to impress me, Indigo Prophecy 
 also manages to introduce certain elements that would be more specific to the action genre. By 
 actually controlling the main character in fights against supernatural entities and in running 
 away from the police and from certain giant insects, the game manages to successfully assure the 
 flow of the story without distancing itself far from its adventure-based gameplay, by using some 
 very welcome action elements.
  
  The storyline of Indigo Prophecy is another of the games strong points. Even from the very mysterious 
 beginning, the game will captivate you with its genius plot, and it will keep you constantly wondering 
 what will happen next. Personally, what I truly admire are games with stories that are not entirely 
 out of the ordinary  games such as The Sims, or Syberia, which, even though they have genius 
 ideas, are not science-fiction. Most games, however, take a turn towards the supernatural and the 
 fantastic, sooner or later throughout their plot, simply because of the reason that the technology 
 exists to permit this. Indigo Prophecy, in most part, is not like this, which is what I truly 
 admire at this game. It shows that the plot of a game does not need to be science-fiction in order 
 for it to be brilliant. When the story is more ordinary, you somehow feel more attached to a game, 
 which is the case for Indigo Prophecy. The ending, however, does take a turn towards the fantastic, 
 but I still consider it to be well though of.
  
  There are a million different reasons why you should play Indigo Prophecy, even if you arent 
 a fan of adventure games. The cinematic feeling, the action elements and the genius storyline are 
 only a few. This is truly a revolutionary computer game, and not just for the adventure genre, 
 and it should be regarded for no less than what it is: a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jumpin21
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 14, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Indigo Prophecy is a very fun and immersive game. The gameplay is somewhat like a Resident Evil 
 with a tank like control scheme. You get to choose where the story goes threw your own actions. 
 Do you want do be nice or mean to your lost love? You can decide! However after you beat it once 
 or twice it gets repaticious.. fast, because you cant skip the cutscnes. This game is almost like 
 a movie, not a game. Graphics are.. well sutable. not fantastic. The sound is incredible, the score 
 is brilliantly done. You do get a little bit of replay value with some mild extras and so forth. 
 Overall this is a breath of fresh air in terms of storytelling and innovation. If you need a new 
 change of pace from the shooting games, check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kamecek
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 13, 2006 8:28 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games where you either love it or hate it. For example, if you like playing 
 Metal Gear Solid for the story and cutscenes, you will love this game. If you like the playable 
 action sequences in Resident Evil 4, you will love this game. If you love just blowing the crap 
 out of things, do not play Indigo Prophecy. This game is 100% cinematic, so you are basically playing 
 a movie. All the scenes are played using a system of batton combinations, for example: if you are 
 running from the cops, instead of running, you'll have to press certain combos in order to perform 
 the correct actions. This system surprisingly never gets old, because you still feel like you are 
 controlling the amazing action sequences that take place.
  
  You play as mild-mannered Lucas Kane, a normal guy who is simply at the wrong place at the wrong 
 time. The game starts out with your character commiting a gruesome murder in a grungey bathroom, 
 and then makes you cover your tracks and run like hell. Afterward you play two cops who are on 
 the trail of.. you. So you basically have to look for clues of a crime you committed and try to 
 figure out that you are the culprit and interrigate yourself...?? But, either way, it works and 
 is a great story.
  
  The presentation is very good, save the graphics. The graphics are the biggest let down of this 
 game, and usually that doens; t bother me.. yet, with a game so big on cutscenes, nice graphics 
 would have been nice. The soundtrack, on the other hand, is beautiful. From orchestral to rock 
 and roll, the music always fits the mood. 
  
  What keeps this game from perfection, sadly, is the length. The game will take you about 10 hours, 
 and will probably sit on the shelf for a long time, for its kinda hard to want to play it again 
 when you know exactly whats going to happen. If you don't buy it, at least rent it, its worth one 
 play through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mouzz
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 12, 2006 1:20 am PT
Review:  To call indigo prophecy a strange game is an understatement, its more of a interactive movie than 
 a game (even the menu says start a new movie) , it maybe strange but it delivered one of the best 
 stories in a game (or interactive movie or whatever) possibly ever.
  The games scenery is set in New York, you start off in a bathroom in a small diner, in which your 
 character (lucas) seems possessed by some mystic powers, and with a knife in his hand, he kills 
 an other man in the bathroom. from there you immediately start making decisions about what to do 
 next, with a cop waiting outside in the diner, you have a limited time to decide what to do next, 
 do you run? Do you clean up, and walk out in calm? And here is where the game shines, you see its 
 up to you to decide, you control what happens next (to a certain limit) , theres multiple ways 
 to play a scene (ahm.. level) , and each leads to something different as you explore the game.
 
  As you leave the diner the story kicks off, and transforms from a murder mysteries, to a thriller 
 that only can be compared to the matrix, the X-files, and even the terminator. As you control the 
 different characters you start to discover each characters problems, fears, and there daily issues. 
 The characters you control are the hero Lucas as he tries to find out whats going on, and seeks 
 to clear his name, and his brothers, a cop named Carla, and her partner.
  The gameplay consists of some adventure elements, some time related mini-games (really strange 
 ones) , and a dance dance revolution style action scenes, add to that multiple choices thats leads 
 to different endings, all of that in one box.
  The game has some flaws, like the slight lack of challenge in it, and the downturn that the story 
 takes in its last chapters (it gets kind of silly) , but it doesnt kill the game.
  The story might have taken a hit in the few last scenes but all-in-all I came out satisfied and 
 even more, I was happy at the end of the game. In general this game is nice change from the usual 
 bunch of shooters and role-playing games, and the great character and story development really 
 push the game to become one of the best, most thrilling and entertaining games out there.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SimSimDaBear
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 11, 2006 10:15 pm PT
Review:  From start to finish Indigo Prophecy had me on the edge of my seat. The game drops you off in a 
 grungy resturant bathroom and the first thing that you witness is a man getting killed. Now that 
 alone should not come as a shock to anyone who has ever played a video game in their life but the 
 twist is the identity of the killer. A few moments later you come to realize that the killer is 
 you! This is just one of the many twists that Indigo Prophecy throws at you, in a game that has 
 one of the greatest, craziest, and innovative story lines ever to grace a video game or even, dare 
 I say it, a movie! 
  
  Indigo Prophecy deleivers what most other games claim to deliever, a cinematic experience. Indigo 
 Prophecy's story, voice acting, and cut scene gameplay really makes the game play as if you were 
 controlling the action of blockbuster thriller.
  
  The story is complimented with a gameplay style that is anything but linear. Every action, every 
 dialouge, every decision you make or say impacts the final outcome of the game. This is where another 
 cool feature of Indigo Prophecy comes in at certainn parts of the game where you can actually choose 
 which character you want to control and play out that part of the story. This is where the only 
 real replay value of the game comes in which is that you could start the game again and keep doing 
 things differntly than before and see what happens. This leaves the replay value of this game alot 
 to be desired. 
  
  The controls of Indigo Prophecy are very original and innovative. You use your mouse when your 
 character is close to something you can interact with, which there are alot, and you move your 
 mouse in a way that correspondes with a pattern on the top of your screen. If you complete the 
 pattern correctly your charcter preforms the actions. For example if you go to turn on a water 
 faucet you must move your mouse up and to the left to turn the faucet on. After you have completed 
 the pattern you will see your character turn the faucet on. This control scheme makes the game 
 seem very more interactive as if your mouse is really a faucet your turning on. 
  
  Action sequences in this game will turn out to either have people love them or hate them. Set in 
 DDR/Memory style controls, you have two up, down, left, right pads on the top of the screen with 
 each direction in different colors. The pads will flash any one of those directions sometimes at 
 the same time and you must replicate the order and correct corresponding buttons on your keyboard 
 in a certain amount of time which usually depends on whats happenning in the actual game. If you 
 complete the sequence correctly you will be rewarded in your action sequence. For example if you 
 are in a fight your character will land a punch or block one. And if you fail the sequence your 
 character will have something negative happen to them, like getting punched. Once you succeed in 
 enough of these sequences something good will happen to you and if you don't depending on what 
 part of the game your on something negative will happen to you, sometimes death. This makes the 
 sequences seem very unsatisfying and will turn alot of people off from this game, but on the positive 
 side the sequences are entertaining to watch and somewhat to actually do. 
  
  A major component to Indigo Prophecy's quality is the sound. From the footsteps to the voice acting 
 everything is perfect. The verteran voice acting is perfect for this movie/game experience. And 
 the sound effects are simply put, amazing. The game really shows how much time the developers put 
 into getting the sound effects of this perfect. A perfect sounding experience with a good soundtrack 
 to complement it. Music playing and playing well in just the exact right spots. 
  
  Graphics in Indigo Prophecy are par for a PC game. The models and textures can seem a little sloppy. 
 Character movement and modeling are also unrealistic with interesting mouth movements when they 
 speak and humorus walking/running animations. Level design and the detail that is put into this 
 game is where the graphics do succeed with everything from a coffee stain on a carpet to 20 unique 
 keyboards and cubicles in an office building. Not to mention the sheer size of some of the levels 
 which are huge, incredibly detailed, and unique. The grahpics aren't by any means the best part 
 of the game but do get the job done. 
  
  One word best sums up Indigo Prophecy, "Innovative". With the amazing story and gameplay any gamer 
 will be able to look past the downfalls of Indigo and have an incredible, emotional time with this 
 game. Being twisted and turned by the storyline accompanied with one of the craziest plot lines 
 ever, and the original controls and sequences Indigo Prophecy is amazing! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ig_x2000
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 11, 2006 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Indigo Prophecy is one of those games that introduces something new to gaming, a new feeling. The 
 game play is what helps thrive this game to its peak. The simple, yet effective style helps the 
 story keep its touch. From the mouse clicking, to the key pressing, Indigo Prophecy delivers a 
 punch. Using your decisions and your mood, you can control the game.
  
  It is great to get away from shooting games on occasion, and this is the perfect game to do so. 
 Using your brain to decide what to do instead of a gun is something I have always wanted to try 
 in a 3D game such as this. I would recommend playing this game before starting another first person 
 shooter game.
  
  The music and sound in this game is great in quality and matches well to the game, giving the right 
 emotion in the right place. The creators did a superb job in this category, not often do games 
 thrive in sound as great as Indigo Prophecy.
  
  The story is overall well planned out and keeps you guessing until the very end. Unfortunately, 
 the story begins to take a turn for the worse towards the ending, as the story begins to change 
 subject dramatically very quickly. Despite this flaw, the story is still very creative and unique, 
 and should not stop you from playing this game.
  
  The only thing I can say about this game that is truly bad is the graphics. People drink things, 
 and no liquid comes out of their cup! That is something that just bothers me every time I took 
 a drink of something. The game may also on occasion freeze up if your graphic settings are too 
 high, and those freezes can be at a part of life and death in the game. Keep your settings low, 
 they are very similar to high settings.
  
  Overall, this game is simply fantastic. You need to play this game if you have not already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 6, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  Don't know really what to say about the game overall I like the game but it's not a game I would 
 play over and over again.
  
  GOOD: The good would be the story, it gives you the feeling that you are playing the characters 
 in a movie, the good cinematic feeling. I love the way you can interact with the environment, more 
 games should come out with better environmental interactions. The story plotting is pretty good 
 but there are a few flaws will come to that later. The game really gets you involved presonally 
 with the characters. The sound's are really good.
  
  BAD: The graphics are really basic stuff they could have done better in that front. The games controlls 
 are not so practical it's just like playing an old arcade game with key combinations if they really 
 wanted us to play the cut-scenes they could have made us play them with more practical controls, 
 the camera views kills, feels like your playing Men In Black, with not so good camera angles (but 
 they can be adjusted) . The story gets lame later on in the game, but it does manage to keep you 
 going.
  
  The game's a great game to play if your looking for a movie feeling with a good story, the difficulty 
 is pretty good because it gives you a good challenge, and I recomend that you play Fahrenheit (not 
 Indigo Prophecy) for the uncut version (LOL) . It is an adult game by the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrhawk42
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 6, 2006 2:09 am PT
Review:  If you tired of typical fast paced, chaotic, action games, or RTS's where you feel you need some 
 type of degree to be effecive in Indigo Prophecy is a great change of scenery. This game isn't 
 for every gamer, and does have plenty of flaws, but I still give kudos to Quantic Dream for taking 
 a chance and developing something original. 
  
  The story is good, but lacks flow, because of a few problems. Dry acting, and diolog is very reminisant 
 of film noir, and character development is choppy like most games. Sometimes they give you very 
 relevant character information, and sometimes the game seems ot devulge useless info, or lacks 
 character information in good situations. The hollywood-esque model does not work for video games, 
 often when playing a character I would think it rediculous that he/she can't find something in 
 there own apartment. Some times options where too broad for this too have the flow of a film, but 
 other times the options where too limited for gameplay. I also felt like making them miserible 
 because of lack of emotional attachment to the film type characters. 
  
  Gameplay is about the worse element in this game. The controlls are abysmal, and the challenges 
 get tedious. Puzzles are fairly easy, but sometimes overtly hard because of lack of thought durring 
 development. For example I spent a 1/2 hour in a library trying to figure out what to do, because 
 I didn't know that the option I needed wouldn't pop up in the right place because I was holding 
 a book in my hand. The puzzles are still easy. The action scene challenges are based on hitting 
 the right button at the right time fairly simular to DDR, and Resident Evil 4. At first it's fun, 
 but soon becomes extremely tedious, and alot of the suspense in an action scene ends up lost because 
 of it.
  
  Graphics seem to be hit or miss in this game, sometimes they'll be amazing, or sometimes they'll 
 look really cheesy, and out of place. The sound never blew me away, but also I never felt like 
 the sound effects were badly done. I thought the music was pretty astounding and set the mood better 
 than any other element of the game.
  
  Value is hard to define it all depends on whether you are in the group that can finish the game, 
 or those who find it abysmal. A serious gamer with alot of free time can probably clear this game 
 within rental time to which it has a very high rental value, but I'm not sure the gameplay is entertaining 
 enough to play through it a whole lot of times even with the alternate endings, and bonus material.
 
  
  This game is something new, and original for most gamers which gives it a high tilt score, but 
 the gameplay lacks control, and innovation over time so it makes taking the time to actually finish 
 the game not as rewarding. Theres a good chance gamers looking for "something else" will love this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderborn
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2006 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Any game that begins with your character (or in this game's case, one of your characters) murdering 
 someone in the bathroom of a diner has got the attention of the player. Especially when that murder 
 has mysterious, ritualistic, and trance-like circumstances surrounding it. After all of that drama, 
 you are then left to to try to clean up and get out, avoiding the suspicion of an off-duty police 
 officer. 
  
  The indigo prophecy is a compelling game with unique gameplay and interface that's sure to hold 
 your attention until the end. However, there are backdraws to the way that the game is executed 
 as well as some problems with the writing of the plot that one simply cannot ignore. Never the 
 less, it's a worthy game that will surely remain in this reviewer's collection. 
  
  This movie gives reality to the term "cinematic gameplay". You play Lucas, the murderer and two 
 NYPD Detectives hot on his trail. Generally, the game play swtiches off between moving around, 
 usually 3rd person, in apartments, the police department and a few other settings and interacting 
 with the environment. There are many things to do, from investigating a few murder scenes to playing 
 yo-yo. The action of the game is ran by requiring to follow sequences on your two analog sticks. 
 If you fail, you get nailed by whatever baddie you are up against or can't quite accomplish whatever 
 task it is before you, if you succeed, the story goes on. While the uniqueness of this system is 
 refreshing and combines a relatively intricate plot with a simple style of gameplay, there are 
 problems. First of all, the sequences are lengthy and shown right in the middle of your screen. 
 When Lucas gets all matrix on some baddies after some hidden power is released within him, the 
 player simply can't watch, for he is too focused on the center of the screen and the sequences 
 he needs to follow. Any game whose whole intent is to be cinematic should allow the player to watch. 
 
  
  Furthermore, there are several sequences that aren't action, but feats of concentration and the 
 like, and you have to follow a mind-numbingly slow combination in order to keep concentratin in 
 game. This quickly becomes a bore, especially because one can't immerse onself in the thickly developing 
 plot of the game. 
  
  Indigo prophecy scores big points for the fact that there is a mental health system in the game. 
 In a world where video game characters stoically or unbeliebably respond to the desolation and 
 insanity around them, it's refreshing to have a game that actually considers psychology. Certain 
 events and actions will hurt your character's mental health, others will help. If your character 
 gets too down and depressed, they'll simply kill themselves or quit their job (the detectives come 
 to mind here) , effecting ending the game. While it's certainly hard to quantify and execute such 
 a system, Indigo Prophecy does a fine job of it and you find yourself being cautious with what 
 you make your character do. The logic driving the gains and losses is solid, too. In one case, 
 you can make Lucas drink some liquor. A little bit helps him, but keep drinking and he'll get so 
 depressed he jumps out of a window. 
  
  Indigo Prophecy does things with conversations options that no other game does that this reviewer 
 has seen. It gives you a short amount of time to choose the next conversation topic when you are 
 talking to someone in game. In fact, game will give you short amounts of time to make a lot of 
 decisions, many of which simply effect the game one or way or another. Some wrong choices will 
 cause you to lose the game. Naturally, any time you make a bonehead choice while playing Lucas 
 that results in the cops arresting you, the game is over. 
  
  The plot continues and one discovers that there is magic and an ancient circle of powerful being 
 that have been controlling the world. While there is potential for this sort of twist in the plot 
 to be cheaply done, the game does a good job with this part, and takes the time to flesh things 
 out for you, and it takes quite a while before you have much of an idea of why Lucas murdered someone 
 against his will. Unfortunately, what starts out as a compelling and dramatic plot ends up with 
 a bit of cheese shoved in just for kicks. 
  
  There are also significant problems with the plot. While everything starts as mysterious and alluring, 
 some aspects of the plot become cheap. As you begin to discover who is behind everything that occurs 
 in the first half of the game, you come across a sci-fi element in the game that brings to mind 
 over-caffeinated writers up late trying to find something, anything to add to the story. There 
 is also something huge that happens to Lucas that is simply left unresolved, even forgotten at 
 the end. Furthermore, the ending that this reviewer received was reminiscent of something out of 
 a teletebbies eiposide in design and was completely incongruent with the forlorn, brooding plot. 
 
  
  These holes are, utimately, forgivable if not ignorable given the game's overall strengths. Indigo 
 Prophecy is a captivating and moving title that is a definite must for any fan of adventure games 
 with an edge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patuljak_7
Rating: 1.1
Date: Feb 26, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  
  In the last few years there has been a lack of adventures, and my expectations for this game were 
 high, especially due to the good rating it got.
  
  However, the game has been completely ruined by the adding of so-called "action" sequences. The 
 makers tried to mix an adventure with stupid hit-key-when-we-say routines to add an action feeling 
 and instead made it look like a C64 sports game in moments. Instead of using your brains you end 
 up with frustration. Instead of waiting in suspense for the thrilling story, yuo wait in fear for 
 the next "action sequence" wandering if your keyboard will survive.... 
  
  Plain, simple stupid. Avoid in a wide circle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dyaballikl
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 23, 2006 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Wow, this game is all kinds of cool. It's definitely got its faults, but the freshness factor will 
 keep you avid. Indigo Prophecy is a psychadellic kind of game where you play as 3 people, two of 
 the cops, one the suspect of a murder, to try and solve this case. It's definitely got some resident 
 evil in it, but is original in many ways. 
  
  First off, you don't really do any direct fighting in the game. This is part of what makes this 
 game very tiring to play. There are battle sequences, and even Shenmue style mini games, which 
 require you to perform fast paced Simon type sequences, and others which require you to mash the 
 keys till you just can't mash anymore. When you're walking around (not in one of these sequences) , 
 the movement is pretty basic, but what's cool is all the interaction. Like at one point you have 
 to hide evidence before a cop walks in and catches it. Also, when talking to people, you have to 
 choose your responses within a limited amount of time, otherwise you just say the stupidest thing 
 on the list.
  
  There's no physical health in IP, just mental health. Also, if you do badly enough in a battle, 
 you just die. Your mental health can be affected by a huge variety of things, everything from drinking 
 too much of the Cognac under the counter (across from the fridge!) , to playing songs on the guitar, 
 getting laid, anything that puts your character's mind at ease (like hiding evidence!) . If your 
 mental health drops to 0, you either turn yourself in to the police and give up on the fight, or 
 you commit suicide (all depending on which character it is and how far into the game you are) .
 
  
  Classically, Atari hasn't been much of a graphics-whore, and they're not starting here, although 
 IP does look better than some of their games lately. The graphics are just good enough to have 
 a nice cinematic gameplay experience, but not nice enough to really wow you. The cinematic experience 
 is enhanced, though, by a professional film director, who really does a great job of setting all 
 the right moods with great music (even some very nice licensed tracks) , and very good (not outstanding) 
 voice acting. Overall, if you've got a nice tv with good sound, and are playing alone in the dark, 
 you can get an experience that you'll wish you had a bedpan, so that you wouldn't even have to 
 get up to use the bathroom!
  
  My biggest complaint about Indigo Prophecy would definitely be the length. It's basically just 
 an interactive movie, so the fact that it's over 3 hours is a lot, but being a game, I wish it 
 was longer. I finished the game the first time through in about 8 hours, being pretty thorough. 
 They could've definitely spent some more time on certain aspects of the story. There were many 
 things the either never got explained or detailed enough, or just never were finished. It would 
 be nice to see a sequel to the game, but the ending didn't look too promising to me.
  
  In summation (haha, high school paper ending) , I'd recommend to anyone who likes new and innovative 
 gameplay, as well as cinematic storytelling to buy this game, it's only $39.99 new. You'll probably 
 get a lot of enjoyable play out of it, plus all your friend will want to play (although it's not 
 a good party game) . Renting's always an option, as well, especially if you're not big into replay 
 (LINKloco) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duncanglamis
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  This game have an extrordinary story and great gameplay.
  Its like no other. Original in all aspects.
  The story is very deep with suspense and mistrious 
 characters.
  All developed with mocap (motion capture) makes the movements extremly real.
  You can meke choices in the game and the non-linear story makes more addic tive.
  This game is 
 the one who change the way to make videogames.
  Great enviroment,, great graphics. and all is great in this game.
  It have parts which is very 
 difficult, but all deppends of you, and your choices.
  You can choose save sombody or not, and not all is what it seems, maybe the right choice is not 
 the one whu can keep you alive.
  The emotions of the characters are terrific, dont make that your character depress, because he 
 can commit suicide.
  An apassionate game, the only bad thing is that theres no second part (yet)
  Please developers, 
 make more games like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sorin_g
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 7, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  Fahrenheit is a different kind of game.
  Fahrenheit is a different game.
  Fahrenheit may not even be a game.
  It is more like a movie.
  You play all the characters, 
 you choose the line of the story, the ending, the actions.
  All in one revolutionary gameplay control.
  Fahrenheit describes a cold world, drawn in a mysteious 
 deep atmosphere, and you can't help yourself not being translated in it.
  It is one of the rare games that make you think more, that keeps you playing it without even breathing 
 to see what's happening next.
  One of the best storylines I've ever seen in a game (it would have been perfect if they had found 
 a better way to continue the story
  from the point when Lucas met the Mayan professor. Oh, god, how I wish they've avoided the Sci-Fi 
 stuff... it must have been perfect) .
  There are a lot of things that fill this world and create the amazing atmosphere:
  1. the characters, 
 very well drawn, (you will get very attached to each one of them) .
  2. the amazing snow and cold effects.
  3. the soundtrack, which fits perfectly into the storyline.
 
  4. the locations, very well chosen, which describe a cold, but yet living world.
  5. the graphics details, not bad at all..
  6. the cinematics, brought to a new record level (the 
 motion here is outstanding) .
  
  The rest is for you to discover. Such a game may only appear once a year. Not to be missed.
  
 
  PS: Full respect for the producers and for their worry about the details, including the mini-games, 
 which, I'm sure, weren't easy to create. I'll
  focus on their activity from now on and I can hardly wait their next creation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TripleSizz6ix
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 20, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Good god, this game is truely great and poetic, it buts the move into movie I mean it really kicks 
 ass, keeps you constatly on your feet and constatly moving. This game displays extremely good graphics, 
 great scenes and just the possibilites. Well just like newtons law of physics, every action has 
 an equal and oppisite reaction. This game has the possbility of changing right before you eyes 
 in a second depending on how you choose to play the game. My advice to whoever is going to play 
 this... Attention to detail if you want to win... attention to detail... The first time I got the 
 game it was a bit strange at first but I got the hang of it and really got into it, i mean i thought 
 about it and i thought hmm anybody can really play this game. The only ridiulous part that seemed 
 kind of foolish was the little simon says part where an action or something attacks you u have 
 to play simon says with your keyboard but other than that, this is one long long movie you would 
 end up playing/watching for hours and hours maybe days! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_boy83
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 20, 2006 4:28 am PT
Review:  Another truly remarkable story telling game with a twist.
  
  24 style presentation (camera veiws)
  The animation on this game is fantastic, check out the 
 2 kids snowball fighting in the park when you are talking to your brother (preist)
  
  You decide how the story pans out, what would you do if you were in the players shoes, this is 
 what i like about this game.
  
  Its a very interesting game, i will try to explain.............
  You controll all of the main 
 characters and you play of one anothers emotions, this plays with your mind too.........
  Theres one instance where you are in your office at work after you have commited a killing, you 
 get a premanition that the cops are coming into your office, so you start to panic and hide the 
 truth about yourself, but you are controlling the copper/ detective trying to find out if you know 
 anything pushing you with direct questions that you than controll the killer trying to cover yourself 
 from your own questions ?
  Its confusing but has never been done befor and is a unique spin on the game. Then theres moments 
 when you have to do co-ordinated pushes on the analogue sticks to regain confidence via the meter, 
 because let your depression drop and its gameover (very clever) .
  Its an interactive story telling game, but why did you kill someone ?
  Play it and find out in 
 this fantastice game
  One of a kind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rendarian
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 17, 2006 11:57 pm PT
Review:  Let me say right from the beginning, dear reader, that there are spoilers in here. I'll do my best 
 to warn you but there are things that must be brought to the forefront to talk about this game. 
 With that in mind, let us begin.
  
  Indigo Prophecy is easily one of the most refreshing games I have played in a LONG time. The combination 
 of adventure and action was taken to an interesting mix much in the vein of several recent games 
 we have seen, like Beyond Good and Evil (another fantastic game) . The story as a whole was good 
 with wonderful support from graphics, sound, music, and everything else. Quantic dream certainly 
 went above and beyond the normal 'get it out the door' and hopefully will learn from this venture 
 and bring us an even tigther package next time. I for one can't wait.
  
  Let's look at a few aspects and we'll start with the good and move to the bad.
  
  Graphics 
 were good. I mean, definitely no Far Cry or such thing but it doesn't need to be. This is a game 
 about story and sucking the player in through total involvement, not just making the walls look 
 shiny. Character animations were all done at a motion capture studio which was really interesting. 
 You can really tell by some of the characters' more minute movement details but sometimes the data 
 wasn't smoothed very well and the movement looks very... digitized.
  
  I had no problem with the controls. Very interesting way to do things, but it does take a bit of 
 time to get used to it. The Tarentino-esque angles mean that the camera is often fixed in one of 
 several locations you can cycle through which generally is great. However, there are a few sequences 
 that make you desire a traditional 3rd person free camera to aid you. You are left with a sort 
 of hybrid that can be frustraiting but it works alright. The worst thing it that there were numerous 
 times when I wanted to watch the action instead of focusing on what buttons to push due to all 
 the great angles. 
  
  The music integration was phenomenal. Sound is so often something that is left to the last minute 
 or done poorly with little though. In IP, there were moments were I was getting rather emotional 
 due to the way the package as a whole presented itself. The addition of live band music was also 
 wonderful. Sandpaper Kisses has now become one of my preferred songs in my playlist. The great 
 spicy changes are places like the basketball game, etc, added great variety.
  
  The settings felt real and believable and I kept wanting to play more. I really, really, really 
 want to own that loft condo. Gorgeous.
  
  However, that leads me into my main complaint. It was way too short. I hate the trend as of late 
 of making games shorter and shoter. Deus Ex and Max Payne were good, long games but their sequals 
 were pathetically short. IP sucks us into this world and then at the end I feel like I haven't 
 had enough time in it... much the same feeling one gets playing Beyond Good and Evil. It's a downfall 
 of making a great world... the user wants to stay in it and keep exploring. The settings needed 
 more intricacies and detail to explore... again, I'm thinking of Deus Ex here.
  
  It certainly wouldn't have been hard to lengthen the game. There are various parts of the story 
 which could have used a lot of fleshing out and should have let us, the player, spend more time 
 in those wonderful settings (ala The Longest Journey) . In fact, there are parts of the story that 
 were crying out for fleshing out, and to that point I will now turn my attention.
  
  *SPOILERS AHEAD*
  
  The whole Lucas/Tiffany thing was really short as was the later Lucas/Carla 
 thing. The latter could have used a lot more explanation. Time may of passed, but that either needed 
 to be explained in some way or had some intervening activity in it. You can either get back with 
 Tiffany or not, but in the end the relationship ends for a certain reason. Fine. However, the sudden 
 getting it on with Carla was very unexplained. If you look at the dates in the menu there are something 
 like 20ish days that pass by with no explanation of what happened. Something should have been said 
 about this to make the situation more believable.
  
  Also, the Purple Guild thing was not well implemented. My problem with it was that here we are 
 dealing with all sorts of ancient prophecies and what not and all of the sudden an malignant AI 
 pops out of nowhere. If one is going to use the World Conspiracy story line, it needs a LOT more 
 development and can't just be thrown in (once again, look at Deus Ex) . The aspects of Mayan cults, 
 etc should have been stuck with and not brutally hacked by the addition of non-conforming story 
 elements.
  
  Basically it felt like it unwrapped very quickly at the end. Where in the beginning we were presented 
 with various side  the end became very linear and felt rushed. This 
 may have been a production timeline issue, but that should NEVER be a reason for cutting a game 
 development short. It is better to put out a finished product than a neutered one and the last 
 third of the game was definitely neutred.
  
  Even with these flaws, this was a great game. Congratulations, Quantic Dream, and keep looking 
 up. With a few things tied up here and there, this game could have been one of the best of all 
 time. Keep that in mind as you go forward and thank you for contributing to a wonderful genre which 
 was all but disappeared in the quagmire of the FPS genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CristiS
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 15, 2006 2:50 am PT
Review:  This was one of the best games i have played in a long time. 
  Although the game-play could be described as simplistic, (most of the time you have to hit correct 
 combinations of buttons - something like those dance video machines where you had to step on the 
 correct pad as it lighted up) it has something that few games have - intense and spectacular action. 
 And this really counts in a game. Another great thing is that during a conversation for example 
 you have limited time to give an answer. So you have to think fast. I found this a great aspect. 
 
  
  The story is very captivating. I did not touch another game until i finished this one.
  
  Excellent 
 music and atmosphere.
  Above average graphics.
  
  It's only problem is that implementation to PC was a little sloppy as for most PS transferred game. 
 And i had some compatibility issues with my sound card (SB audigy 2) , but still i found this game 
 to be superb. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vj23
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 12, 2006 3:55 pm PT
Review:  The game is really ambitious. And in some level it does deliver what it promises. The storyline 
 is excellent , (although a little too familiar from time to time) , there are some very interesting 
 turning points but there is a big problem. The action sequences really deprive the right of the 
 game to be called "adventure" game. It really did not have to be all about point and click stuff, 
 but here there is absolutely no "adventure"-like game play. Also there has been some really weird 
 choices made by the creators. I mean why the talking sequences are timed ? And why there has to 
 be some weird mouse movement to choose a question. Also in most of the action parts you will need 
 extremely good reflexes to get that "GREAT" message and not lose a life, (BTW try to press ALL 
 8 directional keys at once all the time. It worked like 98% of the times for me at my PC) . Also 
 while you are trying to get the right key sequence you are actually not looking at the events on-screen 
 most of the time, thus loosing the action. 
  Beyond that, the graphics are pretty nice and the music is beyond excellent. The characters also 
 are memorable. A little less button-bashing (it feels like a beat-em up some times !!!) , and a 
 longer duration of game play would be nice. Maybe in the sequel ...? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themubashir
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 14, 2006 12:14 am PT
Review:  just finished the game today and i must say this was one of the most enjoyable experience i have 
 ever had.
  The game provides a unique kind of gameplay never seen before in the gaming world. it looks as if 
 youre controlling a Movie.
  GRAPHICS - The game has decent graphics, though nothing to praise about. Well i must also say that 
 in a game like this you wont have time to bother about the graphics coz you'd be too engrossed 
 in its excellent story.
  GAMEPLAY - Gameplay of indigo Prophecy is what makes it different from other adventure games.. Indigo 
 prophecy has its own Genre.
  You have to make split second decisions unlike other games where you could take your own sweet 
 time to answer. Throughout the game it feels like you are controlling some kinda Hollywood Movie 
 Of which the end lies in your hand.
  SOUND - Sound in the game is of excellent quality and keeps the mood of the story going. Voice acting 
 is also top notch.
  STORY - Now here comes the part where Indigo Prophecy Scores above all other games. The Story is 
 excellent. The plot is better than Hollywood
  Movies. I have never played a game which game so much emphasis to its story. you begin to worry what 
 will happen to the characters.
  Indigo Prophecy is a must have for all gamers. Although i feel that the game is pretty short and 
 leves you hungry for more. Saving system is also not user friendly.
  In the end i would like to say that Indigo Prophecy is a great game or should i say a MOVIE which 
 makes its own MARK.
  
  DEAD RISING is the game u r lookin for
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: karooomy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 8, 2006 6:20 pm PT
Review:  wowow, i've just finished it, wow again, i guess this game revive adventure games world.
  
  b4 playing this game i was thinking of syberia as the best adventure game i've ever played, although 
 the engine and playing system is totally different in each game but they share adventure category, 
 so ican say without dought this is 1 of the most enjoyable game i've ever played .
  
  graphics is excellent,
  
  sound is good, yet i can't find game sounds comparable 2 silent 
 hill :) "
  
  game play is abit tough and obligate the need of gamepad, but i played it with keyboard and wasnt 
 that bad, u can choose, but it'd be much easier if u play it with an analogue gamepad. but i guess 
 it's would b much more fun if they disable the mouse controlling and leave it for only pad or k. board.
 
  
  the most significant property of this game is that it gives u the ability 2 choose ur end based 
 on choices u made along the whole game, i mean, if u want 2 change the end, u can't just jump on 
 a prticular savegame and play from it ! u'll have 2 begin from the first, and that's what counts 
 for it's impressiveness.
  
  the only problem is that when playing the game u find inadequate sections of hardness, i mean, 
 1st level at the restaurant is hard comparable 2 other sections, even when u play it 4 2nd time, 
 and as u advance in the game, it puts you in situations when u have 2 play that up, right, left 
 , down thing one after another till i got chocked, then, long part without it till i miss it, small 
 problem u c :) . anothe disavdv, is that it's short : (
  
  even though, the final word, isthis game is a must have gameif u r or arent adventure fan 
 .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alvarinho
Rating: 5.7
Date: Feb 4, 2006 12:40 pm PT
Review:  I was eager to try this game - rave reviews, great word of mouth - it seemed really good, and above 
 all it was an adventure game. They are rare nowadays, and when they come, and are good, me... well 
 any adventure gamer for that matter, gets excited over it.
  But this one it is not worth it, nothing is done right, except perhaps the sound and graphics.
 
  The story is, well, good most of the time, and interesting. The part where 2 of the characters 
 fall in love with one another in just one day is very hard to swallow and kinda makes the whole 
 experience worse. Also there is no gameplay, just the pressing of buttons that remember me of those 
 lame athelics games where you have to press buttons a lot, and to make matters worse, they happen 
 when you have great action scenes with the characters, cant figure out why they made those so 
 good since we are busy with getting colors right - adding yet again to some more frustration. 
 
  Sum it up and you have... nothing worth bothering, just one of those athletics games with a story 
 - and not even a great one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: langrisser2005
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 23, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  I first heard about this game from a mate whom he influenced me by describing how the game plays 
 and how it begins. It sounded really interesting and was definitely to be a buyer when it was released.
 
  I got a copy of Fahrenheit (here in Australia) and was excited to get started right away. The 
 game itself is told like a story by a man who is your main character, Lucas Kane, and throughout 
 the game he explains his ordeal.
  
  Lucas begins his story about the night in a diner in the city of New York where his life was about 
 to transcend into mayhem. It starts off in the bathroom where a moderate old man is cleaning himself 
 at the mirror, not noticing behind in a toilet you, Lucas Kane are about to murder him. As Lucas 
 is approaching the man he is acting psychotic, yet you see glimpses of a unknown in a robe surrounded 
 by candles performing your exact movements, acting as he is possessing you. After you murder the 
 old man in a Dark Ritualistic fashion you come back to your senses and wonder what has happened 
 right in front of you. Lucas stresses quickly that he has done this act and needs to escape. Now 
 its time to take action.
  
  At the menu before you start was a option for a Tutorial which is Strongly Recommended because 
 the controls are different than usual so it's suggested you take the Tutorial for first time players 
 or you may be stuck at the start unless accompanied by someone who has played it.
  
  This game is all about decision making, and within those decisions is time which gives you only 
 a certain amount to decide what you want to do. Soon as youre in control you have a given amount 
 of time to get out of the Diner and escape. Options arise such as hiding the body, cleaning the 
 blood off the floor, hiding the murder weapon, washing the blood off Lucas or simply just run out 
 of the bathroom and out the back door. Decisions do matter as they affect you later on, so it's 
 important to think rationally and don't jump the gun, although it is timed so you also can't dawdle.
 
  
  As time dwindles down further, the screen will split into two to three smaller screens and you 
 will see events start to happen around you. This can be best referenced to the TV series of '24'. 
 One example is when youre in the bathroom; the cop at the front of the diner gets suspicious so 
 he gets off his seat and starts walking to the bathroom. During this the screen splits into two, 
 one with the cop, and your current screen. You are still in control at this time but instead youre 
 watching two screens. Usually also at the top above the split screens is a time bar which decreases 
 right to left showing you exactly how much time is left. If the bar diminishes then times up and 
 depending what, where, or either you at your either safe, or the storys over.
  
  The Cinematic cut-scenes before, after or even during playing the game are really well done with 
 the camera movement. As i said before you can refer this to the TV series of '24' ; the split screens 
 and close-in cut scenes and just part of what the makes the game dark, mysterious, action packed, 
 scary. There are many elements in this game which should be enjoyable. Lucas is not the only character 
 you only play with, after you escape the diner you get to play as two cops, Carla &amp; Tyler. 
 Just like Lucas you get to make decisions and have their own personal path of events. Their job 
 however is to find the murderer of the diner which we all know who is since we just played with 
 them. Lucas must find out what is happening to himself and who is doing it while evading the cops, 
 he has no choice but to be a fugitive. When playing with Carla or Tyler you have dialogue which 
 could lead, or mislead Lucas to being the murderer but then that decision is up to you. There are 
 also some others characters which you get to play a small part with but Lucas, Carla &amp; Tyler 
 are the main characters.
  
  At times when you perform an action a small bar will appear at the bottom corner of the screen, 
 this is called is mood indicator which is important because it shows what kind of mood your character 
 is, whether they are stressed or just neutral. Throughout the game you will need to keep this high 
 as you can at all times because during sudden events your character may get negative, and so their 
 mood bar decreases. If the mood bar decreases all the way down your character dies and thus ends 
 the story. You can increase your mood bar by dialogue or with items, however this may also cause 
 it to decrease so choose wisely what you decisions you make. Another interesting part in Indigo 
 Prophecy is the 'key press &amp; bash button' events. It may sound annoying but it is part of what 
 makes the game unique. The Key Press game happens when a action-heat event is about to occur. A 
 Get Ready message will appear followed shortly after by a four colour direction button screen. 
 One colour will highlight and you must press that key. After a sequence of colours will highlight 
 and you must push the correct direction to be successful. Failure can either lead to loss of life, 
 or the end of the story.
  
  The bashing button game is also when a action-heat event occurs but this time you have to push 
 a sequence of two keys (usually left &amp; right) as fast as possible to get the meter bar high 
 as you can. Higher means a more possibility of achieving the event.
  
  Throughout the game, you may spot sparkling, yellow cards which will show a +5, +10, +20 message. 
 These are terra cards which help you unlock the bonus feature on the main menu. To unlock features 
 in the bonus menu you collect these cards in the game and spend their points on unlocking each 
 feature. There are more than enough cards so don't worry if you forget a few on the way. Bonus 
 features include soundtrack, picture gallery, Bonus movie clips and interaction action scenes.
 
  
  Now for the low down...
  
  Gameplay is great. With so many decisions to make with so little time and different circumstances 
 there is much you can do. Also the fact there are three different endings to the story plus sequences 
 of events you would have missed playing it first through. People might not like the mini games 
 throughout the game however, opinion wise it's a good fit for the game.
  
  Now for Graphics. People stipulate that the graphics aren't that great, I disagree. If turned on 
 low settings it may seem a bit standard but on high it looks great, there is much difference in 
 detail between low and high settings and most people should be able to run Indigo Prophecy on high 
 settings. The game has low graphic system requirements.
  
  The Music from Angelo Badalamenti is well made. He's composed great, mysterious, chilling even 
 one or two funky music pieces and slotted them well for each environment and atmosphere. Lucass 
 Theme is mostly heard but though it is a suitable piece for almost every area he plays in. My personal 
 favorite. The Character voices are well suited to each character. I love the voice of Lucas which 
 i believe is suited best and Carla and Tyler sync in well also. My Favorite voice character though 
 is the 'Mysterious Robe' (I won't mention his name to spoil) guy who i believe has one of the most 
 best evil voices Ive ever heard, I Love his dark, deep voice.
  
  Now for the negative points. A lot of people have said that the game is too short finishing it 
 within a mere 10-12 hours, which is true I finished it within that time so I don't condemn that. 
 Also about the story where it seems to trail off about two-thirds of the game which I also agree 
 with. The mini games being too hard, especially for PC which i somewhat agree. I never particularly 
 had trouble with it, but I can understand for others. The uncensored version which I got does contain 
 nudity and several sex scenes so this game may not be for kiddies but i believe older teenagers 
 should be able to live with it, it is not so bad, Im not complaining. Beyond that there is not 
 much too be negative about, so stay happy! Re-play value is a high. As I mentioned, the game has 
 three possible endings, each decision to leads to different events so different choices through 
 the second time will still be new. You should be able to play Indigo Prophecy through a good three 
 times to explore everything so the short game query shouldn't dismiss you as much.
  
  At near best Indigo Prophecy/Fahrenheit is one of the top games for 2005, most definitely the best 
 adventure so if you enjoy adventure, even a little creepiness because there are some creepy moments 
 I suggest you find your nearest outlet, get a copy, and start playing!
  
  Thank you for reading.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmallen
Rating: 4.3
Date: Feb 1, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  When the hype began about Fahrenheit (now Indigo Prophecy) , writers glowed in praise of the "new" 
 direction for adventure games. Well, the new direction is down and out. This game exhibits everything 
 that is wrong about console games and little that is good about adventures.
  The story is un-involving, until it turns ludicrous with the worst Deus ex Machina entry in literary 
 history. The introduction of alien technology marks the death of the plot, probably because the 
 writers ran out of imagination before they ran out of game time.
  The keyboard-pounding, twitch muscle parts of the game remind me of that Simon game from the eighties. 
 But, this is twenty years later. What is this stuff doing in an adventure game? And the fill the 
 action bar by quickly hitting keys.? Oh, the hell with it. This simply stinks. BTW, you can't save 
 when you want to; the game decides when to save for you... too bad if you have to answer the phone 
 or respond to some other real life event.
  The endings are up to the standard of the rest of the game -- they are stupid and unsatisfying. 
 The plot doesn't resolve, it simply ends. 
  I didn't pay full price for this wreck, but I still feel ripped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Invisiblejim
Rating: 6.4
Date: Feb 1, 2006 1:28 am PT
Review:  This game is really really nice, pretty graphics different method of moving around etc.... however 
 the game designers do need a slapping.
  
  Why? well lack of saving at any point by the player is a major bug bear, mainly because there are 
 some sequences which require it for example :
  
  The simon says routine in one section is challenging with the player having to jump, duck and roll 
 from several flying boxes and chairs. I have already noted down twenty plus actions and still haven't 
 made it to the automated save... Agggghhhh! How many times has the player got to go through the 
 same routine before they get there.
  
  I hated simon says back the 80's and I still hate now in this game.. if your partial to smacking 
 you keyboard to bits, when frustration kicks in I would avoid this game or make sure you have a 
 backup keyboard.
  
  Oh how so close to making a lovely game.. shame.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: achillies
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 1, 2006 12:05 am PT
Review:  Very well done, its the kind of game people have just as much fun watching as they do playing. 
 I personally don't normally enjoy the third person interactive movie type click and watch games, 
 but this one was so very different. You actually had a lot to say and do that affected the outcome. 
 A unique experience that no gamer should pass up.
  
  Graphics: Okay the character graphics weren't the cutting edge 10,000,000 polygon stuff you see 
 nowadays, but they suited their purpose well and did an excellent job in pulling you in. The overlays 
 and background stuff was great. The games graphics did a good job in creating an atmosphere that 
 invoked feelings. There were times I outright felt COLD or FEAR when exploring various places. 
 The motion capture was good, people moved like people instead of bots. 
  
  Sound: Excellent. The voice acting was top notch, not some cheesy repetitive junk. It was very 
 well done with plenty of dialog. The actors conveyed emotion through these scripts they earned 
 their pay. Background noises were always present, giving you a sense of your surroundings and presence. 
 Even the sound of your footsteps would change depending on what you were walking on. The soundtrack 
 is great, a perfect mix of tunes to change your mood with each scene.
  
  Game play: I'm impressed with the game play, now I did use a Dual analog Game pad and found it 
 to fit perfectly with the game. I can't speak on other methods as I didn't try any. I really enjoyed 
 how you had to take part in the action sequences instead of just watching cut scenes. You had to 
 pump buttons or play a Simon says like game with the sticks while all the action is taking place 
 to keep from getting mauled, run over, or beat down. The placement of the overlays for this was 
 well thought out too, you could actually watch the scene and using peripheral vision see what moves 
 had to be made. This way you were stuck staring at what to push, rather than what's going on. This 
 method gives you a feeling for what's going on in the game for example, there are scenes where 
 you are fighting or running and you have to alternately tap buttons... after a while your hands 
 are feeling tired and you are tapping off beat and suffering in game for it... You have to keep 
 fighting or keep running, but your tired... hmmm now if that really was you, you'd be aching and 
 tired too and wanting to quit but be forced to suck it up and keep on going. Of course... you could 
 pause the game to recoup... but that would simply ruin it's purpose.
  
  Storyline: Couldn't ask for more, well actually, I want more but it's not because anything was 
 missing from the game. I just simply want to experience more of it. The story is gripping, very 
 involving, and it changes based on your actions and decisions. The way the dialog is managed is 
 also quite interesting as it has a timer for each response. You have to keep up with the "flow" 
 in order to get the best results. I also found this appealing as it made for a more realistic experience. 
 You wouldn't have much time to think when a cops asking you where've you been for the last 24 hours 
 now would you? This game held true all the way through till the end, with a few flashbacks tossed 
 into to fill in some blanks.
  
  The ONLY bad thing I can say (and it's not that bad) , is I found the camera panning to be a bit 
 of a pain at times. It would wander around a bit when I was walking around. Sure it looked cinematic, 
 but once in a while it was just bothersome. There is a button to reset the camera though so it 
 wasn't that big of a deal. 
  
  Overall it was an excellent game and I tip my hat to David Cage and Quantic Dream for making this 
 one of the most unique gaming experiences ever.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kizzle28
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 30, 2006 8:22 pm PT
Review:  When I first picked this game up, I was skeptical. A friend recommended this as a unique experience 
 and, since I got it from EB games, if I did not like it, I could just swap it for another game. 
 When I loaded this up and began this gripping story... I could not turn away from it. Indigo Prophecy 
 turns out to be a very unique game. From gameplay, despite horrendous controls, to sound, this 
 game is for real. This plays like a movie... an interactive movie. The story and one-of-a-kind feel 
 of this game makes it a worthy addition to anyone whose looking for something refreshing and different. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReDkAoS31
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  This game is very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very AMAZING 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaded4Life
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 4, 2006 9:01 am PT
Review:  Most people thought the adventure game genre was dying, and it was true until Indigo Prophecy. 
 This game resurrects a dead genre and adds so much to it. When you say adventure game you think 
 old PC games like King's Quest, or Return To Zork, but Indigo Prophecy redefines the genre. This 
 game is more of an interactive movie than a game (this is how they advertise it) , and the move 
 to make it like this was an excellent choice.
  
  The game or IM (interactive movie) starts with a nice tutorial on the game mechanics. It opens 
 with the director of the game in videogame form, telling you how to play. After explaining moving, 
 interacting with people and objects, and the games unique rhythm system, you are fully thrown into 
 IM. Before I get into the story though many of you were probably thrown off by the unique rhythm 
 system, this is the games way of making you fight through the games many action sequences. It 
 is reminiscent of the game Simon, where different colors appear on screen and they correspond to 
 a certain key on your keyboard. A very simple mechanic, but it makes the action sequences come 
 to life.
  
  This game though is not about the unique rhythm system though, it is about the story. The makers 
 of this game did an excellent job crafting a breathtaking, and twist turning story. You start off 
 as Lucas Kane and are thrust into a story involving murder, cults, and government cover ups. Not 
 only that, but you get to play as multiple characters throughout the story. Not to ruin anything 
 for you, but about three quarters of the way through the story takes a major turn, a rather insane 
 one. Most don't seem to like the twist, but as a Science Fiction fan I thought it was awesome.
 
  
  With solid voice acting, choreographed fight scenes, Hollywood quality soundtrack, and decent graphics, 
 this one has something for you. If you are looking for a good movie to watch, forget about it and 
 go but Indigo Prophecy, it is well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savvas79
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 27, 2006 3:17 am PT
Review:  I purchased Indigo Prophecy because of my need to play something different, something original. 
 
  
  Well, lets say that the game met my expectations. Great scenario, an atmosphere that lets you 
 emerge to a digital world, decisions that you make and count for how the story will unfold. But 
 (there is always a but!) there some flaws. The most important for me is the controls. Numerous 
 times I chose something in the interaction box (dialogue or action) that was different from my 
 real intention. The length of the game I felt it was small (about 10-12 hours) . After all Its 
 more actually an interactive movie than a game.
  
  The conclusion is that I am waiting the next game that the company will create (any game) with 
 anticipation.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: duffman5027
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 26, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  indego Prophecy has a entriguing story that pulls you in and doesn't let go. The game starts with 
 a scene of the main character, Lukas Kane, murdering a man in cold blood. Gameplay starts with 
 no explinations of anything, not even history on Lukas himself. The object of the game is to follow 
 the clues to unwrap an ancient prophecy about the end of the world. one of the most entriguing 
 gameplay features is that you not only control Lukas, who is traveling on one path, but you also 
 control two new york city detectives. All three characters have extremly evolved back stories. 
 Another unique feature of Indego Prophecy is how every action and decision you make effects how 
 much you are informed about the story and how the story itself plays out. To conclude, Indigo Prophecy 
 has not only an amazing story but intriguing gameplay features as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeorgeTopouria
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 25, 2006 3:13 am PT
Review:  The game starts in a small diner, where the main character, under somekind of unknown trance, commits 
 a murder of a man in the bathroom.
  Right after that, the game starts, and you will have to face the duty to clean up the murder scene, 
 wheither it's hiding the knife you killed with, hiding the body or simply washing your hands to 
 drop suspesion off yourself.
  
  And all of this goes under constant pressure, since the game has a totally perfect sense of cinematic 
 gameplay, which sometimes shows you the happening in the other room, in this case it's a policeman 
 heading towards the bathroom after a cup of coffee, and of course, if you won't be fast enough 
 to clear the murder scene and get out safely from the diner, you will be arrested by him right 
 on the murder scene, which will result in game over.
  
  And don't understand the concept of this game wrong, it's not always about cleaning murder scenes, 
 instead, you also get to play the detective, which will get appointed to this murder case, so in 
 result, you get to play both the killer and the detective, which really adds up interesting depth 
 to the game.
  
  The graphics, which are quite sweet and pleasent to the eyes, are also combined with excellent 
 level design the game offers.
  Except for some clumsy textures in some particular areas, the graphics side has nothing to worry 
 about.
  
  Speaking of gameplay, even though it's considered adventure, has some constant action sequences 
 which works under the "click-fast-button" method.
  The game also offers quite an intriguing plot with a very intresting twist in the middle of the 
 game, yet some parts of the ending are not explained and are executed very poorly, which leaves 
 a major plot-hole.
  
  But even with some plot-holes in the end, this game is one of a kind, maybe even the best adventure 
 game, or at least the best executed one in terms of gameplay/design. And if you're still thinking 
 of whether buying it or not, stop thinking and buy it immediately, cause there is no way it can 
 disappoint you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireandlight27
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 23, 2006 5:35 am PT
Review:  When I first fired this game up and started the tutorial I began to doubt Gamespot's positive review 
 of Indigo Prophecy. The graphics are sub-par, the character animation is wooden and the game-play 
 mechanics were weird. A few minutes with the game revealed that the camera and controls also have 
 some issues. None of these things, however, does much to make Indigo Prophecy less enjoyable. The 
 game remains compelling throughout. The plot is interesting, varied and well paced, the characters 
 are well developed and likable, and the creative game-play mechanics successfully make cinematic 
 sequences interactive. Indigo Prophecy is a departure from everything else I've ever played. Despite 
 it's shortcomings it is a very enjoyable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gangstalogy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 22, 2006 6:36 am PT
Review:  i mean in this game u do it (lucas) then u come bak to investigate (carla) wata n amazin combination!!!... its 
 just the best! and about the questions to lucas there fantastic n it also has a time limit of answering 
 and like wat it says in the tutorial wateva u do has consequence.... and the pressing of R1 n L1 
 is also very good idead... the point here is the game is worth playing... but rememba not for kidz!!!... cuz 
 it contains violence and foul wordz... i find tyler very very funny.... but... lucas is good but sad... and... carla 
 shez fun n sumtimes not so it depends... anywayz thnkx for reading my text review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunwn
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 21, 2006 8:01 am PT
Review:  While this game has it's flaws, it is an excellent example of how the medium is being moved forward 
 artistically. While playing this game I came across a good point. 
  If the "choose your own adventure" people had gotten into video games right away, this game would 
 be so much better. 
  But the fact is, video games have come so far without going very far at all. While you can see 
 the pretensious nature of the designers by just reading the booklet, you can also see where they 
 are coming from. Too many games focus on bland action, as opposed to emotional response. 
  I happen to be a gamer of the ilk who really strives to find games that make me feel something. 
 
  The controls in this game are both intuitive and awkward, the graphics are both smooth and mediocre. 
 the gameplay mechanics are both interesting and silly. 
  BUT, what makes this game is it's character. The story, the inovation, and the overall attempt 
 to make something different. 
  Indigo prophecy is a shining example of the direction games should be going. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leecy1
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jan 18, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  Reviewers misled me into thinking this is an adventure game. It is certainly NOT. At least not 
 in the traditional sense. Hardly any puzzles at all to be solved.
  
  On the positive side, you do not need to pull your hair out trying to figure out puzzles as the 
 whole story just unravels at it own pace regardless. This helps to build up and maintain the tense 
 atmosphere since the flow of the story is seldom interrupted.
  
  It is exactly like watching a movie, but somehow, you retain a bit of control on the outcome. The 
 revolutionary aspect comes from the controls: the story and action scenes (of which there are quite 
 a few) flows naturally and the action of the protagonist is NOT directly controlled by the player. 
 Instead, the players plays a SEPARATE mini-game testing reflexes during these action scenes, the 
 performance of which dictates the outcome of the in-game action scene and plot. This is an interesting 
 concept and it is not bad, but somehow tends to reduce the sense of control I feel over the action 
 scenes.
  
  Other than this, the story and plot is great and really sucked me in, the gameply is innovative... 
 and by my book, these alone are enough for me to give a good score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 18, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  Indigo Prophecy benefits from a few things lacking in many adventure games today -- adventure. In 
 the past, adventure games have been averse to putting your character in a position of not being 
 able to finish the game -- that is, they made sure you could not move on without having done everything 
 necessary. The result was often that your character never felt in mortal peril. You knew you couldn't 
 screw up, and that gave the player some security.
  
  But it also took the adventure out of the adventure genre. Now, in Indigo Prophecy you can't screw 
 up so bad that you can't finish the game (although you may wish to go back and replay a section 
 once you realized you have missed something important) . But finally you feel that at many moments 
 in the game where you must save your character.
  
  That peril draws you close to the characters, who are well defined and far more complex than in 
 most other games of this type. What also draws you in is that you are exposed to their personal 
 lives in a way that is different from other adventure games. In Indigo Prophecy you'll be playing 
 all the major characters in the game as well, so you'll feel like a central part in all the different 
 parts of the game, and not just seeing things from one lone perspective. Adventure game makers 
 take note -- I'll be looking for other games to take this approach in the future.
  
  The story is far better than in other adventure games I've played recently, although by the end 
 the plot seemed a bit frayed. Nevertheless, it is clearly evident that the game designers put a 
 great deal of thought and effort into the plot, and it shines, particularly in the characters.
 
  
  The action sequences are interesting and often fun. They require playing a Simon-esque matching 
 of patterns. I used the keyboard and mouse to play the game, and found the default control keys 
 to be a pain in the wrist. Once I reconfigured them, it made these sequences easier. I have one 
 complaint, though. Sometimes the moves required are complex, and I often found myself concentrating 
 so hard on getting the combination correct to pass through the sequence, that I couldn't also pay 
 attention to what was really going on in the scene. This was only really a problem for a few sequences, 
 but I wonder if there might be another way (such as sound cues, maybe?) to do this without distracting 
 the player from the visuals. But this is a minor quibble.
  
  The voice acting holds up well compared to other games of this type, and while the graphics are 
 not spectacular (there are some low-res textures that pop out occasionally, and blocky character 
 models) they do the job. Even running the game with all its eye candy options turned on didn't 
 produce impressive visuals, only ok.
  
  In terms of gameplay, the game has some innovative ways of controlling the character (ie., using 
 mouse movements to give commands to open doors, etc.) which I found fun. However, since I used 
 the keyboard and mouse, I often had to scramble from mouse to keyboard during the action sequences, 
 which was a pain. I don't own a gamepad, but I suspect it would have made control at least a little 
 more comfortable.
  
  Overall, though, the game is definitely worth playing for adventure game fans. And you won't do 
 everything perfect the first time through, so you'll definitely want to go through at least a second 
 time. I wouldn't say that about most adventure games, but with this one it is worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoShash071
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 17, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  Here The game is nice, the story and sudden images that flash at you are fun and scary same time. 
 Only problem I have with it is stupid reflex clips where you have to match the patterns with arrows 
 key or else you lose a life. This is an action game, not match set. It really slows the enjoyment 
 of the game. I've gotten 1 out of 7 right plus they expect you to remember 8 or 9 tones each time 
 one for the arrows and one for the num keypad. cmon people! You really screwed up a good game! 
 I wanted to finish it off but these damn things are so annoying!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Burnouts3s3
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 16, 2006 7:38 am PT
Review:  David Cage has not only made a great game but one with a amazing storyline as well. The cut scenes 
 immerse you into the world and make you feel as if you were in these character's shoes. It's that 
 feeling of hopeless when Lucas Kane commits a murder he doesn't know how he did and has to find 
 out how it happened. The easy to use controls help the game go fast and concentrate on story and 
 production values. But indigo prophecy has its flaws. First, at times the controls are hit and 
 miss, usually when you want to get some glass for champange or want to get clothes. Then there 
 are SLOW moments in which you want to skip in order to get into the main story line. These include 
 the clostrophobic room level and looking for a library book level ( I'm sorry librarians but looking 
 for library books in real or virtual life is a pain in the butt) . Don't like stealth? Then you'll 
 despise the base sneaker levels, because face it, if the world depended on me being stealthy, the 
 world is pretty much doomed. Also the game is pretty short, less than 10 hours. But don't be discouraged 
 at all! The story line itself is a lone factor to get this game. My advice rent it, love it, return 
 it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpiritG
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 15, 2006 6:32 pm PT
Review:  I researched the game, checked screenshots and finally purchased it. I was NOT dissapointed! It 
 had good graphics, an intrigueing storyline, moved smoothly with reltively simple controls, and 
 with it's possiblity to have more than one ending and seemingly multiple choices at every turn, 
 it makes you feel like you have more freedom, though not enough to freak you out. Puzzles consist 
 of moving your mouse a certain way or clicking repeatedly upon buttons to build up power or complete 
 a sequence. The level of difficulty can be easily altered at any time during the game thanks to 
 a simple 'easy, medium, or hard' setting, which I found VERY useful. There are a few 'out of the 
 blue' twists that confuse and come out of no where but they do not ruin the game by any means nor 
 are they going to mess up the game so badly as to make it not worth purchase. The game reminded 
 me a little of Hitman 2 with it's hint of free will but it's more controlled which in my opinion, 
 makes it better, as Hitman 2 was very difficult to even get started on, (I never did get past the 
 second mission) . You get to play multiple characters and different points in the game and I'd say 
 this game is defintely worth the buy. if you're particularly stingy with your money, wait a while 
 or find it on ebay or amazon. It's a new move for adventure games with the limited free will and 
 I liked it. I give it a high score because I feel it deserves it. The game was released with minimal 
 bugs, smooth movements, etc... something many companies forget in their games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thanatopsis70
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 14, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Imagine watching a movie with your TV hooked up to a generator, and to keep the generator going, 
 you have to rhythmically pound your keyboard, or play that old 4-color, beeping Simon game. To 
 me that would be distracting and not much fun. That is what this game was like.
  To call this a game is a joke. Even to call it an interactive movie is pushing it.
  Although 
 you can perform different actions at times (move the mouse left to open a drawer, move the mouse 
 right to look at the computer screen) it might as well have had one button, such as "press ENTER 
 to continue."
  It was kind of like a "choose your own adventure" book, but the choices are very limited. Yes, 
 there are different endings and different outcomes, but after the first one, I had little desire 
 or reason to try for a different outcome.
  Sometime you have choices of questions to ask characters, but more often then not, you have to 
 go through the entire list no matter what order you choose. It just give the illusion of interaction.
 
  I thought this would be more like Max Payne without gunfire, but it was nothing like that. It 
 had even less adventure game-like puzzles than that. The puzzles were basically doing tasks asked 
 by other characters. "Get the matches that are in the kitchen." And WOW, you walk to the kitchen 
 and there are the matches! Some puzzle.
  90% of the action sequences require pounding two keys on the keyboard as fast as you can, or following 
 a sequence of 4 flashing colors, so if it flashes red, red, blue, green, you have to hit the corresponding 
 keys. How dull. And what is worse, you can't even watch the outcome very easily because you have 
 to concentrate on the flashing colors so much.
  The graphics are decent, the plot is good, but a bit cheesy in parts. The main actors are great. 
 The music is good for the most part. The animation was good too. The camera and controls were the 
 worse I have ever seen in a game. They make it almost unplayable, besides the other things that 
 make it unplayable.
  It was interesting in a way, I just would have rather watched it as an "animated" movie instead 
 of having to get carpal tunnel syndrome for no good reason. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazyMuppetLord
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 14, 2006 10:05 am PT
Review:  My friend called me one day and said,"Dude, have you played Indigo Propecy yet??", when I said 
 no, he insisted on spending the night so I could, so he came over as fast as he could, and I popped 
 into my PS2. From the moment the game began, I knew I was in for something special. Keep in mind 
 that I'm the kind of person who, when playing GUN, makes the horse trot slowly and rotates the 
 camera, making it cinematic and awesome. So when I started playing, I was at first overwhelmed 
 by the things I could make him do, the choices I could make! Even more so by the fact that the 
 choices I made actually AFFECTED what happened to Lucas later, and what I found as the cops. 
 
  
  After playing through the game a few times and still not doing everything, I came to a verdict. 
 With it's awesome story, seemingly never-ending replay value, great controls, intuitive interface, 
 and innovative gameplay, this is one of the best adventure games I have ever played. If you don't 
 want to buy it, do yourself a favor and rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nighttalkeer
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 14, 2006 7:50 am PT
Review:  Did you ever said WOW while you are playing a game for making a good move or escaping from a trap??!
 
  
  In this game you will amaze yourself with all the actions and moves that you will never expect 
 . Its a breathe taking game!
  
  This game has a great music will make you tense enough and will connect you to the characters through 
 its controls you will fell opening the doors and climbing walls . 
  
  Its an easy to control game but need to have a big cup of coffee beside you because you wont sleep 
 until you find its end !!
  
  Simply , GO BUY THE GAME ITS A WORTH PLAYING ONE
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: znte140
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 11, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  Ill keep this one short:
  
  Good Points:
  Great Story, Great Audio, Great Gameplay and Excellent Graphics. Indigo Prophecy is different from 
 any other game, as it requires good reflexes and quick thinking - and is ultimately a very rewarding 
 experience!
  
  Bad Points:
  Camera Angles can sometimes be a little annoying, but you wil get over it. Also, the amazing action 
 sequences are great to watch - IF you can concentrate on pressing the right buttons at the same 
 time!
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone, simply because it is unlike any other game you will have 
 played before. You will be totally engrossed into the well constructed atmosphere, including human 
 like playable character interactions and completelly perfect audio experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sictiburon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 10, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  For quiet a while all the pc-gamers comunity was waiting for a game like these; excellent designed 
 characters, outstanding music (Theory Of A Deadman) plus some mind blowing girls (Carla for example) 
 all mixed up on a very addicting and viciuos game... I dont need to say anymore, go out and buy 
 this it, you wont regret.
  
  Un excelente juego que combina accion, intriga y muchas horas de frustracion continua que solo 
 te haran mantenerte pegado a la computadora. Todo esto bajo la seductora silueta de Carla (protagonista 
 del juego) danzando al ritmo melodico de los riffs de la gente de Theory Of A Deadman. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thewagnus
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 9, 2006 9:49 am PT
Review:  What can I say about Indigo prophecy? I liked that you could direct the story on your own. I liked 
 how mysterious it was and how it keeps you guessing. However, the action sequences were horrible. 
 It's like playing a twisted version of "simon." You can't succeed and watch what's happening at 
 the same time. Also, once the story reaches a certain point (in all of the paths) it goes from 
 gripping to rediculous. Also the first part of the game is loaded with tedious tasks, like getting 
 a drink of water or exercising. Then when the story finally comes together, it's over in less than 
 an hour. So it's 75% boring and 25% action.
  
  I love adventure games, but this one was too short and way too bizarre to get with.
  
  RENT 
 IT FIRST! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JankoiTom
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 9, 2006 4:24 am PT
Review:  Fahrenheit is an 3D adventure game, but it isn't one of hard-to-solve adventure games. It is a 
 game you can play and and finish in less then 10 hours ( like myself ) . When I got it, I started 
 playig it right away. I tried to stop playing but the absolutely brilliant story, interesting action 
 scenes etc. wouldn't let me stop!
  
  When I wrote it has everything, I was 99% serious, it has : basketball, fighting monsters, ancient 
 civilizations, pornography (they don't show everything, almost always there is a thing that's blocking 
 the view) and sex, investigations, a few ways to solve every part of the game...
  
  The only lame thing about the game is the graphics, which is not world class, but it isn't REALLY 
 bad.
  
  The game isn't hard to solve, but still there are a few parts where you have to use, either your 
 reflexes or your brain.
  
  My advice: BUY, BUY, BUY!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starsky303
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 8, 2006 4:03 am PT
Review:  Good game. Cinematic cutscenes, split screen physics and very good voice acting and music makes 
 this gaming experience tense and often shocking/surprising. The game lets the player get completely 
 involved it the character they control by playing 'puppet-master' with their emotions and their 
 every decision. The quick dodge/fight scenes are sure to keep you on your feet through the game 
 as they can be fun and pretty hectic to say the least. That said, the game is just too short though 
 and I didn't understand the sudden love interest with two of the characters towards the end. (Not 
 much of a spoiler because I don't think that should've happened and I'm probably not the only one) . 
 But still, a lovely original game that's worthy of my 8.5 score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eclarkdog
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 5, 2006 8:46 pm PT
Review:  In one respect, this is a beautiful and innovative game with an interesting and somewhat immersive 
 story. I bought this game because of the excellent reviews and nod in Gamespots GOY awards. I'd 
 say overall that I'm glad that I purchased and played the game, although I probably could have 
 waited a liltte until the price goes down. I think the reviews are a little inflated IMO. It's 
 a good game, but not great. I think the major aspect that has lead to such reviews is the game 
 is somewhat one of a kind and innovative. The key aspect of this game is immersing the player in 
 a movie wear the movie/story is the main focus. This game is a similer to games like The Longest 
 Journey and Still Life as well as other Adventure Company games 
  
  Positive notes: The games graphics are very good - there are some beautiful and harrowing scenes. 
 The sound and voices are excellent, although there are no recognizable ones - not that that matters. 
 You get to play 4 different main characters - Lucas, Carla, Tyler and Martin. Lucas is really THE 
 main character, while Martin plays a minor role. Carla and Tyler are played considerably. Your 
 actions and decisions with each character move and affect the story leading to replayability of 
 this game. The story is very good and somewhat unique, although it gets a tad hokey in parts. You 
 delve into a little of each characters personal lives as well as Lucas and Martin's past, even 
 playing their characters as children - actually some of the best gameplay in the game. Your actions/decisions 
 also effect the mental stability of each character. I felt compeled by the story and outcome which 
 was fairly satisfying at the end.
  
  Negatives: Gameplay is atrocious except for a few exceptions like the playing in the past as Martin 
 and Lucus. Basically the primary action consists of something like a Simple Simon game in which 
 you press arrow keys in time with colors popping up in the middle of the screen . And this really 
 is the key negative aspect of this game. First the simple simon interface is certainly not innovative 
 and gets kinda old quick, not that I didn't want to finish - also gets progressively harder (I 
 changed the game setting to easy midway through) , But even more important, although the colors 
 appear in the center of the screen the interface distracts from following the action play out behind 
 it - might as well be a black screen. Other action is controlled by the quick back and forth action 
 of buttons - not as bad but been there-done that . The rest and bulk of the action like opening 
 doors, climbing, interacting with object s- like computers and phones - was controlled by a somewhat 
 unique interface in which you control a red dot and move it in different directions. Not a negative 
 but hard to describe unless you try it. Ultimately though the gameplay really detracted from the 
 game. I think the developer felt he was being innovative and diferent with the gameplay but I think 
 the game would have benifited from more the more traditional interfacing used by adventure game. 
 Lastly on the negatives, the play in story gets a little inconsistent in spots, especially toward 
 the end. This may have been caused by decisions that I made, but some characters like Tyler just 
 suddenly go away.
  
  In conclusion, despite me going off on the gameplay, this game was fun to play and interesting. 
 It appeared that the game ended with a sequal in mind. I hope the creators rethink some of the 
 game play elements in the sequals to make this truly a great game and series. My score came out 
 to a 7.1 which I believe should give the impression that this game is worth playing but no at full 
 price. I recommend playing on easy to get through the simple simon crap more easilty, while it 
 ultimately doesn't affect the main goal of the game which is to immerse the gamer in a movie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DRyOrange_basic
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 6, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Indigo prophecy is a very unique game that offering cinematic story telling. The entire game creates 
 an experience that rival many first person shooter. You take control of a character with decisions 
 that truely counts, also the ability to see the story through many other character on the other 
 side of the law adds to the flow and completion of the story. The actual story could've been stronger 
 nevertheless still interesting. Also, the graphic of the game lacks the "wow factor" of many of 
 the games today, however, it's not the graphic that is the strength of this game. Indigo prophecy 
 sounds great too, many of the character voicing are convincing and musics are top notch. Top game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djnet
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 10, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Indigo Prophecy or fahrenhait is the best game in the adventure style.
  This game has powerful and amazing story.
  This story is very different in difficult section 
 and level , that maybe this features is very important.
  I love this game and i don't forget fahrenhait. indigo prophecy with amazing and nice scense is 
 very powerful game. just do it and nothing else. Recommended to everyone and every gamer that love 
 new generation of adventure game.
  Indigo prophecy is evolution.
  If you play this game you never forget this.
  Good luck the big gamer... you sure this game is 
 a different game with any game in this style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SourCherryBoy
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 5, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  [Spoilers Ahead. If You Havent Played The Game Yet, Dont Read This Review]
  
  (I played an un patched version of the game on a PC)
  
  Indigo Prophecy or Fahrenheit is certainly 
 a breath of fresh air. The game tells the story of Lucas Kane, an average Joe who works in a bank 
 and basically lives a very ordinary life. He has a girlfriend and hes actually going through some 
 tough times in his love-life, but thats about it. Lucas story begins, when a strange man comes 
 to his table at a restaurant and takes a seat. He takes control of Lucas and makes him proceed 
 to the bathroom, where Lucas cuts his wrists and sacrifices a random victim. Not a bad start for 
 an action/adventure/horror game.
  
  The graphics are pretty good for the most part, but I encountered a weird glitch, as I could sometimes 
 see through walls, but thats probably my problem, because I just purchased a new graphics card 
 a few days ago and I havent had the time to properly configure it yet. The characters are really 
 well modelled and the animations are definitely the best part of the whole game, but some textures 
 in the game look a little blurred, giving the game a look thats a little dated. And then theres 
 the thing with shadows. The player model and the models of various NCPs cast shadows on the walls 
 and on the floor, but not on the objects that are seen in the game (tables, chairs etc.) . For a 
 game that tries to be visually realistic, thats really a bad thing. And the camera can be a bit 
 clunky at times, but it didnt screw anything too important up. 
  
  As for the choices that youre able to make in the game - its a pretty good system, but even more 
 freedom in choosing your path wouldnt have hurt. And sometimes the options that are given to the 
 player are unclear. To spice things up, you usually have a very limited amount of time to make 
 up your mind. But the game certainly has a lot of replay value, because doing certain things differently 
 may affect the story greatly.
  
  When your character gets in danger, has to fight or is about to have a vision about the future, 
 you quickly have to push the right buttons indicated on the screen. Having these colorful flashing 
 buttons on the screen in a game that is mostly more grim than Edgar Allen Poe, is a bit weird to 
 look at. Its also is a distraction. The game is very cinematic and there is a lot to look at, 
 but its really difficult for the player to observe his or her actions, because of all the button 
 smashing that needs to be done. I dont have any better ideas for a fighting system, but more control 
 over your character would have been just great.
  
  A decent adventure game ought to have some decent puzzles. No truly hard puzzles can be found in 
 Indigo Prophecy, though. At least not for the average adventure gamer. I, for example, didnt stop 
 at all to just catch my breath and think for one minute. And another thing that makes things very 
 easy for the player is that there is no cursor or a pointer. There is also no inventory. These 
 two elements make the few puzzles that you face in the game very easy to solve. The only thing 
 that makes this game hard is pressing the right buttons at the right time. So the overall difficulty 
 is easy or medium.
  
  The voice acting is superb, there is no doubt about that. And all of the voices seem to fit the 
 characters very well. Most of the actors have also had a lot of experience in making voices for 
 computer game characters and that really shows. Bravo!
  
  The plot of the game is an interesting one, but the ending spoiled everything, at least for me. 
 Character development leaves a lot to be desired. You get a picture of their personality, but you 
 really dont learn too much about their past or even their present life, with Lucas Kane, of course, 
 being an exception. And sometimes characters act in a way that one really wouldnt expect form 
 them. A good example - Lucas girlfriend had just died a few days ago and suddenly Lucas was having 
 sex with Carla (the main female character of the game) . To make matters even weirder - Lucas was 
 already dead at this point of the game and he was ice-cold. I mean - Carla seems like an educated 
 woman, shes making a career etc. And then she decides to have sex in a train wagon with an ice-cold 
 man, who she has met only a couple of times before...
  
  One of the biggest let-downs of the game is its length. I explored everything and everybody and 
 still managed to complete the game in six and a half hours. A friend of mine came to my place and 
 completed it in five and a half hours (I assisted him a bit, though) .
  
  This whole game suffers from the Star Wars syndrome. The beginning is very cool and gets your hopes 
 up, but the ending is just downright ridiculous. Sorry, but thats the way I feel. But in the end, 
 I would recommend this game to all excitement seekers. This game also has a lot to offer, so be 
 sure to check it out. I bet youll like it more than I did. And even if you dont, its definitely 
 a new kind of a gaming experience.
  
  Sorry for all the typos I missed. Im not English ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ-D10
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jan 3, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  I can't multitask.
  I am really good at doing one thing at a time. But to watch an ingame movie, while also watching 
 some stupid colors flashing on the screen and pushing the appropriate buttons, that's a bit to 
 much for me. I would rather just watch the movie clips. 
  
  But this is where Fahrenheit tries to become more of a game, the user has to do something, or else 
 it would just be a movie right?
  Right, but it still isn't a proper solution.
  As you can't save, some "hitting the buttons" chapters are madly long, and I can swear you sometimes 
 get "Failed" when punching the buttons perfectly, both the correct ones and at the correct time.
 
  
  Don't get me started on that old Hypersports "punching two buttons" madness. The game isn't designed 
 for 10 year olds, so why force the user to act like one?
  
  I only played through it once, but it looks to me like your choices actually have minimal effect 
 on the story, it's designed to go one way and one way only. I could be wrong about this, maybe 
 I will play through it again to prove this right or wrong.
  
  In the end, as fascinated as I was with the game at the beginning, I feel somewhat cheated. Punching 
 buttons while watching a movie just isn't satisfying. But for a while there it was fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: z4kn4f31n
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 1, 2006 9:23 am PT
Review:  I haven't enjoyed an adventure game that much since the days of monkey island and grim fandango. 
 Don't expect the humorous touch of these. Instead, the horror atmosphere is great, the game play 
 is the best anyone could build. It makes you feel like you are in the game training in the gym 
 or you are the one who drags the person. 
  
  Graphics rock. This game seems just like a movie, like you are in it , playing the characters! 
 
  
  The first game i saw where your actions REALLY affect the game! 
  
  Sound is great, exactly like it should be.
  
  Camera positioning reminds me of old silent hill 
 games in some cases. This is really lovely!
  
  Just perfect, I suggest this to anyone , not only die-hard adventurers. Best game i've played the 
 last years! Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikeski
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 31, 2005 3:55 pm PT
Review:  The game gives new meaning cinematic gameplay. Each choice made in the game will affect the outcome 
 of the entire story and how you get to the end. Although the scenes will be mostly the same three 
 different endings exist. Two are able to be chosen ultimately at the end of the game while one 
 can be chosen at about 80% completion. If you don't want the crummy ending play smart toward the 
 end and never give Jade up!!! 
  The game starts out with the main character talking about choices in life and how you have to live 
 with them for the rest of your life. However, sometimes you are just at the wrong place at the 
 wrong time. A man enters the bathroom and you see Lucas Kane (main character) sitting in a stall 
 and from time to time visions will appear once the man is washing his hands Lucas leaves the bathroom 
 and stabs him three times killing him without a single yell or scream. That is when you start to 
 control him after he regains consciousness and realizes what he has done.
  During the whole time you try to find out what happened to Lucas is he really a murderer, is he 
 possessed or was he just at the wrong place at the wrong time. There are other playable characters 
 in the game like Tyler, Carla, Markus and the Oracle. Although all these are playable only Lucas 
 and Carla will be the ones in the end. You will become attached to almost all the characters because 
 of the back story that Atari and Quantic Dream have created for each. To some more than others 
 but all will have a great back story to keep you wanting to play more towards the end ( like me 
 I couldn't get enough as the end drew near) . 
  The sound scheme of the game is extraordinary. It is basically one song for the entire game but 
 it has a chilly and scary undertone that will give you goosebumps even when the game is turned 
 off and you are safe in the real world ;) . Occasionally other songs will be put into context that 
 will lighten up the mood but quickly they become small and insignificant. 
  Interaction with the environment is important because it can either give you mental points or force 
 you to lose them. Some of the most common things will give you a boost but watch out not all are 
 so harmless. Especially any news about the murder which Lucas commits will make Lucas lose mental 
 points. However, a positive reaction will be achieved by getting back in touch with Tiffany, Lucas' 
 girlfriend. Towards the end Tyler will also be asked to make a choice whether to go somewhere with 
 his girlfriend Sam or not. Really it doesn't matter which you choose because that is the last time 
 Tyler will be a playable character. The freezing temperature and the cold wind around you will 
 add to the atmosphere of a creepy story and make you sometimes believe that it is a horrible winter 
 outside in the real world also. 
  The graphics are nothing amazing because of the rough edges that are clearly visible throughout 
 the game however the gameplay and story sequence quickly makes up for that. The story draws you 
 in so deep that no amount of graphics mishaps and incongruities could possibly ever stop you from 
 playing the game. You must be aware though that there are horrible gruesome scenes and that some 
 things are not for kids such as the the sex scenes the killings and the ritualistic symbols. For 
 instance there is one moment when Carla is in an insane asylum and all the lights go out and the 
 "crazies" are let loose and you must guide Carla to safety while controlling her breathing in almost 
 pitch black territory. 
  I hope I helped everyone who wants to play the game. You must overcome your fear and start playing 
 because it is truly the best game ever. For all of you who like a lot of action this certainly 
 may not be the game for you because there is some action but mostly cinematic gameplay and maybe 
 5 or 6 scenes of action sequences. No go and start playing!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nikolajb
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 31, 2005 8:59 am PT
Review:  It is rare, that games get away with pretending to be movies. This isn't because the tutorial is 
 hosted by the director, or because "new game" has been substitued by "new movie", but simply because 
 the game has a well-written plot and the production is excellent.
  
  To many, Half-Life is the obvious choice when asked to name a game with a great story. But in Indigo 
 Prophecy (IP) , the story is a far more integrated part of the game. Furthermore, there's more depth 
 and character development in this game than practically any other game out there. Although, to 
 be honest, that's not really saying much.
  
  Most dialogue-driven aventure games leave you plenty of room for trial and error by allowing you 
 to restart conversation or making you repeat it until you chose the "right" combination. Here, 
 asking one question in many cases mean losing the chance of asking another. Interestingly, you 
 often feel disappointed about not being able to get all the answers you need - as opposed to other 
 games, where conversations are a nuisance that you want to get over with as quickly as possible. 
 This is yet again due to the excellent story-writing in IP, combined with nice voice acting.
  
  In IP, the action-part is mostly based on controller-responses slightly reminiscent of DDR, 
 combined with some fast-paced button-mashing. To a great extend, this works surprisingly well, 
 as it helps build tension. However, in a few cases (hint: fence-climbing) it becomes rather bother-some. 
 Furthermore, at times it takes away too much focus from the story.
  
  All in all, a great game. Depending on your standards for replay-value, you may find it a bit short, 
 but do yourself the favour of giving it a shot. You may - like me - find yourself watching the 
 end credits at the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cont3mpT
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 31, 2005 5:01 am PT
Review:  This game made me spend many hours in front of my PC :) . It's both a movie and a game. The guys 
 at Atari and Quantic Dram made a very, very, very good work. But let's face it, for an "end-of-2005-game" 
 it's graphics are not at my expectations. Happily the breath takeing action compensates that. The 
 voices, I belive are playd by actors, because I can't explain the proffesionalism... I do have 
 to recognize, some parts of the game are quite dull (like the part were Lucas Kane remembers thing 
 from his childhood or where Carla and Miles fight in the ring) . Those parts keep you away fromt 
 the action of the game. All in all it's a verry good thing that I was given the chance to play 
 something other than shooting, knokin' heads (see the GTA series) and other evil stuff :D. I hope 
 I will se one day in theatres: "INDIGO PROPHECY: THE MOVIE" !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ksyme99
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 31, 2005 4:00 am PT
Review:  I am not really into adventure games, in fact this is the only one in my collection really. I play 
 games as a release from all the work I do in the real world, and I have never found adventure games 
 that interesting, more frustrating. But when I saw a trailer for this I knew it would be different. 
 It looked much more like a good action adventure, than one of the same old puzzle solving ones. 
 And how right I was. 
  
  The main thing you play this for is the story, and the uniqueness of the scenes as they can pan 
 out so many different ways. The main guy's troubled mind makes for some highly entertaining romps 
 with imaginary creatures.
  
  All this would be good on its own, but the Indigo Prophecy goes one better. It gives us all and 
 is backed up by great graphics, which really get you more involved in the scenes; good voice acting 
 which really makes or breaks games like these; and a very unique control system, small mouse movements 
 for some things and tapping keys in the right order at the right speed for others.
  
  Overall I was very impressed with this game. I found it just the right difficulty for me, apart 
 from one or two bits which seemed near impossible, but I got there eventually. The story is fantastic 
 and it ends as superbly as it starts... buy this now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yui437
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 29, 2005 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Adventure games have taken a backseat in the realm of gaming, much like curling in the Winter Olympics. 
 They've also seen much better days. I remember a time when adventure games formed part of a gamer's 
 daily meal of games. Among my favorites were Full Throttle and Riven. The pinnacle of adventure 
 games have always been set by the Myst series, presenting perhaps the hardest puzzles ever crafted 
 by man. Lucasarts made fantastic adventure games with well-crafted stories and a sense of humor 
 in each. Those were the old days, before 3D graphics became the norm. Now, adventure games as an 
 art have almost been lost. Enter Indigo Prophecy.
  
  Indigo Prophecy has all the makings a great game. The story sucks you right in from the start and 
 does not let go until the very end. It is immersive, cinematic in every right, and has one of the 
 best stories all year. If you're into a game with a great story as the center point, a tight script, 
 then this is the game for you. The mystery behind your main character's killing of a random stranger 
 is a unique starting point, much more original than I've seen in a long time. The story may be 
 great, but how does this play?
  
  It being an adventure game, Indigo Prophecy falls somewhat in terms of game play. It is not at 
 all difficult for videogame veterans and those who merely dabble in the activity ought to have 
 little trouble with this game. There are a few minigames spread throughout the game, with some 
 during the exploration periods and others during cutscenes. The exploration usually involves moving 
 your character around, looking at different objects, picking things up, etc. Conversations are 
 also handled in the same fashion. Whenever you need to make a choice, you have to move your mouse 
 in a certain way, such as a half or full circle, or just straight up and down. It is an intuitive 
 system.
  
  The interactive minigames that occur during the cutscenes include a Simon-type game, where two 
 circles appear on screen and light up and you simply press the corresponding directions using both 
 the arrow keys and the aswd format. Remember, this is a game designed for all platforms. Other 
 games include pressing the left and right arrows repeatedly and sneaking around without being caught. 
 The game play is varied enough, and it is a balance between paying attention to what's happening 
 in the story and keeping track of what you're doing.
  
  Again, the game isn't all that difficult, although I'd have to guess the minigames are simpler 
 on a keyboard than a controller, but I suppose that's up to player preference.
  
  A few gripes: There is too little ending. The game's story is great, the beginning and middle are 
 really fun. But like a Shakespearean play, the final act simply ties everything up. There are very 
 few nuances after a certain point and because of that, the story suffers. It's just one leap of 
 faith, but it is rather large. When I finished the game the first time, I wanted more to the end, 
 but oh well. This is game is great, but it could have been mind-blowing.
  
  The music is pretty good, although I wish there was a larger sound track. Some of the extra games 
 you can do include having your main character play the guitar and some of those songs are quite 
 nice to listen to. The graphics aren't that great. In fact, they'd pass off as really good maybe 
 a few years ago, but I can't really complain. This game would benefit from a graphics overhaul, 
 but oh well.
  
  All in all, I love this game. It is a game that can be accessible to anyone looking for something 
 that isn't too intense or hardcore or simply a great story. This game isn't so much a game but 
 a cinematic experience. A crowd of people can sit around you and watch as you play and still be 
 thoroughly entertained, I guarantee it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mankvill
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 29, 2005 10:10 am PT
Review:  This is a great game. Or maybe it's a great movie? The gameplay mechanics are wonderful, using 
 the mouse to pick things up, a Simon-esque game for action sequences, and a wonderful story. You 
 think this is a murder mystery? For the first part, it is, then it flies off and you have Matrix-style 
 battles, running on buildings, fighting police, and all that. You go from killing a man you didn't 
 even know, then you fly off to the Amazon jungle, and then end up fighting in mid-air back in New 
 York, and saving the world. This is a wonderful, immersing game, well worth the money you spend. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolmankris
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 29, 2005 12:08 am PT
Review:  I played the demo when it was released on this site a few months ago, and was quite impressed. 
 I got the game for Christmas, and I couldnt believe how much I loved this game. It isn't really 
 a game, but more like an interactive movie. The story starts out simple. You murder a man in a 
 diner washroom, only it turns out you were posessed. You don't remember doing it, or even thinking 
 anything of it, it just happens before your eyes. And now that the dirty deed is done, you have 
 to hide any incriminating evidence, as the police quickly get your trail. Throughout the story, 
 you spend time covering your tracks, avoiding the police, and trying to find out how this happened 
 to you.
  However, quite early into the game, you play as two detectives as well, trying to hunt down this 
 killer. It sounds like a bad idea, but playing both sides of the card work incredibly well. When 
 playing as the detectives, the game takes on a CSI feel, where you have to find the murder weapon, 
 check blood spatter, look for criminal records in the police archives, and so on.
  Throughout the game, you also run into special action sequences, similar to an old game called 
 'Simon'. You have to press buttons to match colored lights onscreen. Alot of poeple hated this, 
 but I found it to be kinda fun. The only problem I had with it is the fact that it can be hard 
 to pay attention to what's going on with the characters, as well as keep focused on the puzzle. 
 However, sadly, the puzzle never really gets any harder, which is a shame.
  Everything you do in this game has an effect on your outcome, whether it be great or small. And 
 everytime you do something, it has an innovative way of implementing the actions. For example, 
 to open a cupboard to your left, you must click your left mouse button, and move it to the left. 
 And to do something like get out of a chair, you would click and move it up.
  The one thing about this game is I cannot recommend it to everyone. those of you looking to shoot 
 lots of people and have lots of action, you won't really find that here. But if you like a deep, 
 rich and satisfying story with a few deep and intriguing characters, then this is for you. I recommend 
 it to anybody who loves a good movie or novel, or if you enjoy games like Myst. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianpoetzel
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 26, 2005 3:05 pm PT
Review:  This denfinatly not your typical video game. I just got done playing and the closest I can come 
 to a comparison is either watching a classic movie or reading a great book. 
  
  There doesn't require a lot of skill to play. If you a familiar with the game "simon" then you 
 should do just fine. 
  
  The real joy comes from watching the game play out. It puts you smack dab in the middle of a murder 
 mystery and lets you control people from both sides of the investigation. I love the choices available 
 to you. Depending on what you do and the dialogue you choose the game will be a little different 
 everytime you play. Granted, these choices don't have a whole lot of bearing on the endings of 
 the game but it's nice that it's not just the endings that vary but the journey getting there as 
 well. 
  
  This is a game that I won't mind playing again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saud_0
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 25, 2005 11:10 am PT
Review:  Indigo Prophesy or Fahrenheit are both just different titles for one of the most innovative games 
 made till date.
  
  Though the game took me 11 solid hours of continuous gaming, I managed to get through the whole 
 game without feeling the least bit bored or tired, as every part of the game either had an amazing 
 plot twist or a beautifully crafted "cinematic" game sequence.
  
  This isnt one of those games that rely on massive bulky guns and the zombies you have to decapitate 
 with them in order to keep you occupied. On the contrary it keeps you submerged in its originality 
 of gameplay and story.
  
  The game starts off with a guy who is possessed and ends up killing a man who he didnt know. After 
 he comes to his senses, he realizes the horror of the situation he created, and thus embarks on 
 a journey to find out as to why he killed the man. In order to do this he must elude the cops, 
 take help of all his friends and in the process of which he slowly unfolds an ancient plot that 
 can change the fate of all humanity, in which he plays a vital role.
  
  To conclude I must say that this game was worth every penny I put into it and that not only I think 
 that this is a great game but so does Gamespot as it was awarded the Special Achievement Award 
 for Best Story and for Best Adventure Game, 2005. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: faam
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 25, 2005 9:02 am PT
Review:  The graphics are great if you put them everything in high resolution... i like the graphics the 
 sound is great too, the music it's great...
  you can interact with almost everything, you can play with 3 charachters, everything is connected 
 between them... if you do something with one character it affects the other one... it has very 
 differents ending, you can play over and over again and do differents thing... the game is easy, 
 but the plot and the history is very amazing... 
  
  it has a lot of new thing that any regular adventure game doesn't have like for example you grab 
 the broom and you made the movement with the mouse and the character does the movement that you 
 are doing with the mouse... when you're going to talk to someone you have to be fast and think 
 fast because you have like 2 secs. to do a question or answer something and if you answer bad it 
 affects the hystory :D...
  
  i think it's one of the greatest adventure game ever...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: devildweller98
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 2, 2006 9:45 am PT
Review:  fahrenheit as i know the game by (also called indigo prophecy) is a very interesting game. the 
 most interesting adventure game iv played since silent hill. the graphics are good with very good 
 voice acting. gameplay i thought was great. where not only you move the characters and look for 
 clues. but you play some of the movies to. (same idea to a game called shenmue if you've played 
 it) . you must hit the right keys on the keyboard when it comes on screen. the animation and fighting 
 parts, i thought was amazing and very well done. i like the way you have to help the main character 
 move out of the way of cars, bullets and other objects. ok the story. i thought it was amazing 
 and very interesting. in the man's room of a diner a mysterious murder takes place. the murderer 
 is an ordinary man. he has no idea who his victim is. but this isn't an isolated incident. 4 key 
 characters to control. the story is your own way. lucas kane the murderer. carla valenti the smouldering 
 detective. tyler miles the N. Y. P. D agent and markus kane the murderer's brother and priest. discover 
 the truth. way did you kill him? what made you do it? and who is controlling the murderer? some 
 strong sex and nudity references. some mild language. moderate violence. very spooky. very good 
 game or film as some of you like to call it. i love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barbutza69
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 23, 2005 10:36 am PT
Review:  This game takes adventure games to the next step. The story is incredibly good, making you think 
 through most of the game that your playing a crazy killer, whose trying to find reasons for his 
 actions. Your also going to play a sexy cop that's trying to solve the crime you have committed, 
 and her wise-cracking partner who gives a touch of humor to the game. 
  If you play the tutorial first, the gameplay might look incredibly simple and, and you might think 
 that this game is not worth your time. But the fact game starts so intense, and that it doesen't 
 slow down at all, will make you forget completely about the gameplay... until you find yourself 
 locked in jail if your the killer or leaving the case and the police force if your one of the cops. One 
 of the great thing about this game is that you don't die... the purpose of it is to stay mentally 
 stable so you can continue the game. The beautiful thing about this quest of not going mad is that 
 you can make the ods turn against or in favor of you by doing small things that might help you 
 or quite the opposite, like watching tv, sleeping, looking at a picture, and other things. The 
 sound of the game fits perfectly with the atmosphere, there ar mostly sad, melancholic tunes, but 
 there are also some chase scenes which require and deliver "chase scene music". The voice acting 
 in this game is also very good. The only bad thing about this game are the graphics which are disappointing. 
 There is no movement of the hair, some square scenery and the list can go on... but these things 
 might have got in the way of the gameplay and if I were you i would let the graphics slide away 
 so I could play one of the greatest adventure games ever!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randar23rhenn
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2005 11:37 pm PT
Review:  Indigo Prophecy is a game I looked forward to ever since I first found out about it. The entire 
 game just reaked of a great idea, and I was hoping that the follow through would bring about the 
 game that it felt like it should be.
  
  Well, it did. Indigo Prophecy is one of the best games I have had the pleasure of playing, and 
 certainly features one of the best storylines I have experienced in a video game.
  
  Gameplay: In adventure game like Indigo Prophecy, gameplay is such a hard factor to score. The 
 storyline is such an integral part of every aspect of the game, and this game's storyline is easly 
 10/10. Sadly, the action sequences revolve around what seems like a game of simon going on on your 
 screen. The action scenes reduce you to jamming the arrow and numpad keys in an almost random fashion 
 as you do various things that would be spoiling plot points to describe. 
  
  You move about using the arrow keys, and the control at first seems a little awkward, but once 
 you are used to it it is quite easy. To interact with people or objects you use the mouse, moving 
 it in certain motions. This movement system with the mouse also turns into time based decisions 
 and other, more important things, as the game progresses.
  
  The best thing in the game is the storyline. It is not very often that I actually care about what 
 happens to a character in a game, let alone what happens to every character. The feeling the game 
 brings across the screen is amazing, its so involving you will truly feel as though you are going 
 through every scene, as you discover bits and pieces of the puzzle you are trying to solve.
  
  The story is truly incredible, but has a few obvious gaps that should have been filled. Fortunately, 
 these gaps do not take away from the overall experience of the story.
  
  Graphics: These graphics aren't the best you will see on the PC, but they are still nothing to 
 shake a stick at either. The graphics help you dig deeper into the game, and get more involved, 
 and that deserves a great score.
  
  Sound: The voice acting is absolutely superb. Not one character sounds awkward or forced. Every 
 single character has the exact voice I would imagine them having.
  
  Value: One playthrough is about 18 hours, but there truly are so many different things to do, different 
 ways to do a scene, that it is easy to spend well over 60 hours with the game. It's just that good.
 
  
  Tilt: This is one of my favorite games of all time. I didn't want it to end. It was just so amazing, 
 so incredible, that you could feel it as if you were living it yourself. The tension felt in the 
 characters boiled over to you, and you could feel it as well. Indigo Prophecy would be my choice 
 for the Game of the Year.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigblunt537
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 22, 2005 9:54 pm PT
Review:  This game was a very excellent game. Usually after school everyday i come home and find no good 
 games to entertain me and im really bored im ether talking to one of my friends or my girl, and 
 this game made me not want to see any of them nor see any of them, the story was just excellent. 
 I feel like playing this again just to see how things will turn out this time. Its one of those 
 games that you just never want to put down the controller i love this game with all my heart best 
 adventure games ive played since like forever and believe me its well worth the buy i would purchase 
 it again if i had to.
  Believe me if you want to know if this game is worthy of playing i give you like a zillion thumbs 
 up :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jDevo25
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 22, 2005 7:43 am PT
Review:  Lets face it, movies kick ass... well at least the good ones do. The adrenaline induced euphoria 
 that nearly all males get after seeing Russel Crowe own Joaquin Phoenix 
  in Gladiator, reminds us why we spend the nine bucks. Yet, imagine if you were Maximus. Deciding 
 how you finish Joaquin off, or if at all. Even better, lets say your decisions pitted you against 
 a clock with only a few seconds to make your choice. What do you do?? More importantly, what in 
 the hell does this have to do with Indigo Prophecy? Its simple, for all intents and purposes Prophecy 
 is a movie. A theatrical performance that puts you in the directors seat. You control the pace 
 and actions of the film, yet you dont dilineate too far from the set path. Boring? Suprisingly 
 no. 
  
  Right from the start you can tell that this isn't your normal cup of coffee. Quantic Dream as crafted 
 a dark brooding tone that permeates through the whole game experience. Taking place in a blizzard 
 striken Ney York City, Indigo, even in its light moments retains an aura of just overall dark badness, 
 which definitely warrants the use of a "mood meter". Depending on your converstation and story 
 choices, your character will experience the two extremes of lucid nuetral to psycho ward wrecked 
 and everything in between. 
  
  Cops and Robbers... Kinda. 
  
  IP immediately thrusts you into the shoes of newfound murderer Lucas Kane. Which you quickly discover 
 while watching the opening scene of yourself murderering a Black Mesa Scientist look-alike in a 
 restaurant bathroom. Once the scene ends you immediately get a taste of the gameplay. You can execute 
 a variety of context sensitive actions via mouse movement, simply mimic the direction path of the 
 action icon at the top of your screen and Kane carries out the assigned maneuver. One quickly gets 
 the hang of it as you decide whether to just bone out through the bathroom window or stay and hide 
 the body and clean up the mess. Decisions like these are available throughout the game, to your 
 benefit and detriment. 
  
  Multiple characters are also playable, most notably in your detective opposition. A determined 
 Carla Vincent and her playfully hip partner Tyler Miles. At certain moments in IP you can switch 
 sides and try to solve the case that you yourself earlier committed. This works fairly well earlier 
 in the game as you pick up evidence at crime scenes and try and tie everything together in a very 
 CSI-esque fashion. Yet this gets a bit confusing later on when your playing as Kane and have to 
 hide certain incriminating objects, just to find them easily as a detective later on because you 
 know exactly where you put them. Annoyingly simple, but tolerable. 
  
  Moving your mouse in a pre-determined way to have prescribed actions take place through the entire 
 story arc would have made for a progressively lamer and lamer experience. Which is why I'am glad 
 that the guys at Quantic recognized this fault and diversified the gameplay. During action sequences 
 (which are beautifully choreographed in mo-cap) a twitch based mini-game appears, which is essentially 
 a coked up version of Simon Says. Color coded panels appear on-screen, one or two at a time and 
 you have to match the lit colors with a distinct key on your keyboard. Simple enough on most occasions, 
 but horribly difficult on few. This gripe is void though when playing with a console controller. 
 Furthermore, you can control claustrophobic Carla Vincents breathing and most running and physical 
 feats by tapping the "A" and "D" buttons in certain order. Another cool aspect is the timed sequences 
 that play out like a multi-paneled episode of 24. For example, detective Tyler Miles is coming 
 to question Lucas about the murder and Kane has a certain amount of time to hide the evidence before 
 Miles reaches his office, all the while Tylers footsteps getting progressively closer to Lucas 
 is shown on the upper panel. Not groundbreaking by any means, but a welcome change in the sometimes 
 monotonous gameplay. 
  
  Remember Half-Life 2's Graphics?!... Indigo Doesn't. 
  
  While by no means ugly, Indigo's graphics are in no way breathtaking. The PC version is of course 
 no comparision to the Xbox and PS2 editions, with sharper textures and less fuzziness in some areas. 
 It contains the same problems though, just to a lesser extent. Textures are often bland and dull, 
 while edges retain a fuzzy demeanor. Nothing downright ugly, it just does enough to get the job 
 done. Animations are also sometimes stiff and facial movements dont always match up with the speech. 
 Although its not something you notice too much when you have giant florescent hallucinogenic bugs 
 chasing after you. There are also optimization tweaks available, yet even then, IP just doesnt 
 show the comfortable graphically advanced distance I've grown used to seeing when comparing PC 
 games to console ones, but then again Indigo Prophecy offers so much more than just looks. 
  
  Sometimes, Its Whats On the Inside That Counts. 
  
  If graphics were IP's weak point, audio 
 is where Indigo really shows its colors, and shows them proudly. Scored by Angelo Badalamenti, 
 whos worked with David Lynch of Seven fame. The dark sinister theme of the game is melodiously 
 and beautifully captured in the crying violin and downtrodden tempo. Its one of those scores that 
 is instantly recognized like Star Wars or Signs. Whatever ambience was lost grapically, is more 
 than made up for in pure auditory prowess. 
  
  The voice acting also shares the clear high standard the score recieves. Actors are perfectly on 
 par and really add personality to the characters. From the inner monologues, to Carla's gasped 
 panic ridden voice in the Psychic Ward, the voice acting is top notch. Lucas has a few hiccups 
 (not literally) when being interrogated by the police but its barely noticeable and just as easily 
 forgotten. All in all extremely satisfying. 
  
  CLOSING COMMENTS 
  
  There are a few problems that keep Indigo Prophecy from truly shining and it is definitely not 
 a perfect game. Graphically IP not as strong as it could be and the gameplay can be often times 
 monotonous. Yet there is fun to be had, and lots of it. Characters are very well voiced and the 
 score is one to remember. The plot is straight from the movies and is one of the more engrossing 
 storylines I've experienced this year. Also, the gameplay is a breath of fresh air, a strong step 
 in a good direction and a worthy evolution of the medium, I'd choose strong gameplay over strong 
 graphics anyday. All in all, if you like dark gritty movie who-dun-its, then get a comfortable 
 chair, turn off the lights and most definitely pick up Indigo Prophecy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrabith
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 21, 2005 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Fahrenheit or Indigo Prophecy is probably one of the best games I have ever played. It combines 
 almost everything in it, a detective, a third person perspective, and adventure. But by the time 
 I got to the end, it seemed that a good story broke all of a sudden. Carla falls in love with Lukas, 
 all of a sudden. Ending is so perfect, that it's even bad for a movie. Mysticism was brought into 
 too deep of a science fiction. Pretty much the genre of the game changed from mystery to just plain 
 unreal science fiction. I give this game thumbs up, but don't be disappointed by the ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chan001
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 20, 2005 8:03 pm PT
Review:  at first, when i look at the game cover, i thought this was just like normal shooting game, but 
 when i play it was NOT!!!!!! IT LIKE IN THE MOVIE N U take the role one main character, then the 
 main character kill someone n the NYPD (police) was looking for him. u need to hide all your evidence 
 such as wash you hand or even throw your knive away.
  
  I have never seen a game like this before n it was great. It also contain some horror eleement 
 in tjis this game. This game have a good audio n sountrack. u won't be so boring eventhough u have 
 play it 2 or 3 times. So, overall this game ROCK. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DivineComedy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 17, 2005 12:08 pm PT
Review:  What an intense game. I just finished it and I think it's the best game I've played this year and 
 the best adventure game I played since... hmm one of the last Monkey Island, yes it's better than 
 Syberia. 
  The new gameplay mechanic's introduced in this game are innovative and fit very well to the genre.
 
  The story is intense and very well told. The action sequences are very good. The graphics in the 
 game are the best example of how they don't need to be top notch technically and yet be very accurate, 
 involving and atmospheric. The sound and music are excellent. 
  I became a huge fan of Quantic Dream after this game and I highly anticipate their coming projects. 
 Money very well spent! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesp1980
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 16, 2005 11:27 pm PT
Review:  After purchasing Roller Coaster Tycoon 3, I found the Demo to Indigo Prophecy on ATARI'S website. 
 I was hooked in 2 minutes. The story line grabs you and pulls you in. I found myself playing for 
 hours and almost falling asleep at the computer.
  
  The best part of this game... it's more like an interactive movie. Every choice you make has its 
 consequence. The fact that there are multiple ways to go through each seen makes you want rto play 
 again and switch things up.
  
  I read in a review that keyboard control can be hard, as the game requires you to use both hands 
 to manipulate Lucas. I bought the Ideazon Z-Board, which has an interchangeable key-set. This allows 
 you to configure the controls so that you can use the arrow keys with your right hand, and use 
 a custom set of keys on the left. This made game-play much smoother. I highly recommend this keyboard 
 to any gamer.
  
  This is not one of those games where you just sit there with your hand on the mouse, waiting for 
 the character to accomplish whatever task. No, you are in control of what happens, thus making 
 the game (movie) , more interesting. Don't dare take your hands off the keyboard!
  
  There is a slight humor in the game, though most of the time, the suspense is killer.
  
  My 
 only disappointment... only 2-channel sound. In a game like this, I expect at least 5.1 surround. 
 But no, I had to settle for 2 channel. 
  
  Edge of your seat, two thumbs up, go buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manserban
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 16, 2005 2:57 pm PT
Review:  I'll start by saying i'm not sure in what category i can place this game. Because this game creates 
 a new genre in the gaming industry. The game is like a movie, but the best part is that you can 
 influence the way the story unfolds. You can say it's a movie-action-quest type of game because 
 sometimes you have to solve a little puzzle and right after that you're dodging bullets and fighting 
 cops.
  
  The whole game is structured in chapters, and every action you take during the current chapter, 
 modifies the next episodes, so there is alot of replay value here.
  
  The main difference between this game and a classic quest or adventure game is the way you interact 
 with the environment, the gameplay. Here you will not find the classic point and click. Throughout 
 the game, when certain events occur, you will have to push a certain combination of keys, that 
 will appear on the screen (from a total of 8) . Failing to enter the correct combination will sometimes 
 cost you a life. Yes, in this game you do have lives and you can die (another difference from a 
 classic quest) . Also to take objects, to push buttons, or to perform any other action you will 
 have to move the mouse in a certain way (up, down) .
  
  The graphics and sound are good, but nothing special here. 
  
  Of course, the strong point 
 of this game is the story which keeps you playing for hours just to find out what happens next.
 
  
  In conclusion, if you are a gamer that likes a good movie (just like me :P) and you enjoys making 
 a few changes to the script, this is definitely a game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuasha786
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 16, 2005 3:42 am PT
Review:  I just completed this amazing & revolutionary game now. It's really such a game which can easily 
 drive you into a different world. Actually I played the European version which has been named as 
Fahrenheit ". And I hope you all know very well that Indigo Prophecy is the US version name. 
 And believe it or not there are lots of differences in between these two versions. Whatever the 
 both game are same. Fahrenheit or Indigo Prophecy is no doubt one of the best game in 2005. And 
 why I just explained below:
  
  The Story: An excellent story. Most of the game's stories of today's are almost been related or 
 some kinda same. But Fahrenheit or Indigo Prophecy is really different. It's movie based story 
 really make you feel better while feeling bore by playing same kinda Story based FPS or RTS or 
 anygames. The story based on Lucas Kane an ordinary citizen (Actually not - which one will definitely 
 find later) who just possessed by a Mysterious human (A Clan) and killed an innocent man. But when 
 he back to normal he found himself as a murderer (Actually which he never did conciously) and tried 
 to find behind all of these to prove his innocense. The game just start right after that. Another 
 excelltent thing of this game is you have to play with four different characters all the time. 
 
  
  Graphics: It's graphics is excellent. As I already told you that it's a movie based games which 
 means when you will play this game you will also feel that you are enjoying a movie. The best thing 
 of this game is you don't need a higher end graphics card or PC to play this game smoothly though 
 it's graphics is amazing. 
  
  Characters: The role of the characters related to each other and with the environment so perfctly 
 which make the game more successful.
  
  Controlling: One of the serious problem of today's games is controlling system. Fahrenheit is clearly 
 out of it. It's controlling system is excellent and very easy to operate.
  
  Sound System: It's sound system is also very good.
  
  Now the thing is every good things has 
 some bad things also. I didn't find so many bad things of Fahrenheit except two:
  
  1. Some of the stages are really difficult to complete. But thats not the problem except completing 
 one stage. "Where is Jade (The Indigo Child) " Chapter. The long time action sequence of this game 
 is really very much enjoyable but just next what happened. When our hero Lucas dropped into a room 
 through a window with the Indigo child and Agatha (A character) who turned into a shadowy monster 
 (The Purple or Orange clan or Oracle -actually I forgot) after you declined to handover the child 
 to her really difficult or I should better say impossible to complete next. Is it a bug or anything 
 else I don't know but believe me guys I have played over thousands of games in my life but I never 
 suffered like this one before. I completed this game by starting that chapter again and after hand 
 over the Indigo Child to Agatha. And through all the forum I came to know that they also faced 
 the same problem (Only with the European version-Fahrenheit) . 
  
  2. This game is not for the people under 18. Because the reason of two extreme nudity in the game, 
 specially the last one (Only for Fahrenheit, the European version - as I already told you the differences 
 between Indigo Prophecy & Fahrenheit) . But In my opinion they are not the problem of this game. 
 Because it happened in the right situation & environment to perfectly fullfill the story.
  
  At last I wanna tell you one thing if you are a gamer then you should must play Fahrenheit 
 (Personally suggested to play the European version as Indigo Prophecy the US version is actually 
 a sencored version.
  
  Thanks a lot.
  Antar 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kainenable
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 15, 2005 7:47 pm PT
Review:  When was the last time your blood was really pumping in an adventure game? Even if you could think 
 of a time i bet you had to think a while about it.
  
  This is adventure gaming done right in 3d... finally. No more mouse hunts, or backtracking through 
 the same area over and over again. This game is just pure action and exposition. The story is really 
 good although not great. It tends to fall back on some cliche's at times but overall the story 
 is something that will keep you enthralled and excited to watch.
  
  The voice acting is pretty good as well. The same is the case with the graphics. Although It takes 
 place during a major blizzard where everything is white the environments are all different and 
 well done. THe music in the game is superb, without using a custom soundtrack. They actually take 
 lesser known artists and use this in the game. Considering this is a game that takes place in the 
 present this was a good move and each song seems to fit with the scene. It can get a little repetitive 
 at times, but that is pretty rare. The atmosphere is great, there is always a faint staic on the 
 screen which helps to exemplify the underlying insanity of what is happening. The graphics are 
 terrific and really serve the story helping sell the modern setting the game takes place in.
  
  There are a couple glitches, where you can stonwall your progress by doing tasks out of order. 
 These are rare, but when they do occur can be rather annoying. 
  
  Lets get to the gameplay which is the most exciting part of the game. It is a bit like a rythem 
 based game where you have to put in certian sequences of buttons at the right time while the action 
 is happening behind. Overall this is great, and really can get your adrenaline going especially 
 during some of the crazy sequences.
  
  You get to play from the prespective of 4-5 different characters, but they all work and make sence 
 for the story. Lots of unlockables and fun and diverging plotline make this a game that you should 
 try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gumpo
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 15, 2005 7:35 am PT
Review:  In case you havn't noticed, i've decided to refer to 'Indigo Prophecy' as 'Fahrenheit' in my review, 
 because of two big reasons. First, it was released by this name everywhere but the United States, 
 so i feel more people would want to hear it called by its real name than its special localized 
 name just for Americans. Second, to get my copy early, i played an imported version of the game, 
 and never once saw the name Indigo Prophecy anywhere on my games box. (Yeah im doing the review 
 late, but thats because i've been busy gaming, give me a break!)
  
  I'll try to make this one short and sweet.
  
  You probably already know the premise of the 
 game - you get to control several characters in the same story, alternating between the role of 
 a man who has just uncontrollably killed someone in a restaurant, to the two police officers called 
 in to investigate the crime. You'll bounce back and forth between the two the whole game, occasionally 
 playing as ohter characters for breif scenes.
  
  Fahrenheit really consists of mostly your typical solid adventure game, but with a driving narrative 
 and a few twists that really make it stand out. For instance, the biggest innovation is that as 
 you play the game as one character, you change whats going to happen in the next scenes with the 
 other character (s) . If you do something to say hide a murder weapon in one of several places, or 
 dont at all, you're going to have a slightly altered scene in the future, where what you did slightly 
 changes how everything plays out. Generally these few differences arent enough to make you want 
 to play through the whole game again, but they're definately enough to make you feel like what 
 you did really effected the game, and wasnt just all scripted together like many other games.
 
  
  You'll also end up playing a whole bunch of DDR like mini games that are strangely familiar to 
 the good ol memory game 'simon', wherein you have 4 colors, and have to execute the pattern as 
 they light. How well you do in these mini games changes the disposition of your character, or slightly 
 alters an action scene. (If you do perfectly during a fight scene, you'll execute all your moves 
 flawlessly and get away fine. If you mess up once or twice, you might end up getting wacked on 
 the head, accidentally hurting an innocent, etc, and then when the scene is over your character 
 will feel bad and become more likely to suddenly end the game through a suicide.)
  
  The graphics are very good, and the music is downright gorgeous. Fahrenheit has been the first 
 game in just about a decade to make me actually go out and pick up some of the music i heard in 
 the game, or even want to fire up the game just to listen to the music. (Particularly, the music 
 used in the credits.) All the in game music was perfectly suited for each scene, wether it was 
 simple ambience or an actual track - which added to the movie-like feel of the game.
  
  The only things i could find wrong with Fahrenheit were that its not going to change much during 
 a replay, and it does eventually end. And for me, i was driven to finish it so much by the compelling 
 story that i only spent one whole day and a fraction of another playing it. Now understand, there 
 are i beleive two seperate endings, but to find them you really only need to load a save before 
 the end of the game to change the outcome, and while you can affect some of the other parts of 
 the game pretty largely, none of those actually change anything in the end, so are only cosmetically 
 changing the story - like i said, something that makes for a great feel during the first playthrough, 
 but really doesnt hold up for a whole second.
  
  There's really no replay valure to Fahrenheit, at least not immediately. It will probably be a 
 great game to go back to a year or so from now, but playing it again right away didn't do anything 
 for me, and probably wont for most other people. The story makes you feel involved, but you dont 
 have such a huge sprawling range of actions that warrents a whole seperate playthrough, say like 
 Deus Ex did.
  
  Some people have said that the story gets a bit uninspired during the end, but i feel that the 
 only reason people aren't happy with the way to story progresses at the end is simply that it was 
 so good during the begining. There are a lot of unique things in the story, but admittedly a few 
 strange or all too common plots going on too. I felt that it was overall very original and interesting, 
 and although it could have been better, it certainly wont stop be from giving the game a great 
 rating.
  
  In the end, Fahrenheit, Indigo Prophecy, whichever you want to call it, is a great step for gaming. 
 Its artistic and movielike gameplay can reach out to just about anyone, and i truely think that 
 so long as you own one of the consoles its available for, or a powerful PC, you should really look 
 into playing it no matter what style of game you usually play. (So much for short and sweet, eh?) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erikthorsen
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 12, 2005 10:48 am PT
Review:  So.... Indego Profecy, or Fahrenheit as its called in Europe... Is it worth buying?
  The short answer: Yes
  The not-so-short answer: Hell yes!
  
  .... Ohh, you want more detailes, 
 rigth? Here you go: You play as Lucas Kane, A normal guy with a boring IT-job a small appartment 
 and all that Just-A-Normal-Guy stuff... So like any other guy like that you end up commiting murder, 
 that is damm realistic rigth? Naah, maybe thats just me.. In any case, when you have done this 
 horrible deed you are off in an pretty amazing advanture with the goal of discover what made Lucas 
 commit this murder. The amazing thing is all the diffrent endings and all the choises you make 
 over the game. Eksample: When you start and stand over the body of your victim, what would you 
 do? Freak out and flee the scene? Or be a litle cool and calm, wash up, hide the weapon and body 
 and all that? Or something in between? Free choise.
  
  But enoufh talk, Do yourself a big favor and get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElectricBlue17
Rating: 6.6
Date: Dec 10, 2005 6:10 pm PT
Review:  I should start by saying I didn't play "Indigo Prophecy," I played "Fahrenheit" which is the same 
 game but it contains several scenes that were cut out of the American version (the scenes were 
 sexual in nature, this move is probably due to the whole Hot Coffee debacle)
  
  The atmosphere created in this game is masterful. Every single detail is here, great music, good 
 ambient noise, gloomy environments, noir-ish detectives talking to themselves. It really fits the 
 murder mystery genre perfectly. I particularly love the voice acting. It's an element a lot of 
 games lack these days. As an anime fan I notice voice acting probably more than the average gamer 
 and I must say Lucas and Carla's voices are the best I have ever heard. This adds a lot of depth 
 to the characters in the game which are fleshed out perfectly, with a few minor exceptions. 
  
  The problem is the stereotypical black detective. When we first meet him I was hoping for something 
 fresh and inventive with his character, but here we have another overused stereotypical black guy 
 who is stuck in the seventies. It's really disappointing that they would add something like this 
 to an otherwise flawless cast of characters, I was half expecting him to say "Dy-no-mite" most 
 of the time.
  
  The graphics are not amazing by any standard but I feel that they work well for this game. The 
 animations are very good. From kids throwing snowballs at each other to cars passing by in the 
 snow and character movements, the animations bring the world to life.
  
  I didn't even mind the Simon says game you get to play during the action sequences. It was inventive 
 and an improvement over other cinematic games such as Metal Gear Solid. 
  
  The thing about this game that really ruined it for me, and a fact that the original reviewer for 
 gamespot missed, is the illusion of choice presented by the game. "Indigo Prophecy" lauds itself 
 as a game where the choices you make determine the outcome of events that take place, but this 
 is completely untrue. I played through the game twice, each time using a completely different strategy 
 and making completely different decisions. But at each decision the game would ask you to make 
 a choice, I'd make it, and then it would find a way to weasel into having the same outcome for 
 both choices.
  
  For instance, in the first game I carefully hid the body and as the detectives I thoroughly checked 
 the restaurant until there wasn't a single shred of evidence missing. During the second play through 
 I just left the body in the middle of the floor and ran off through the back door, then as the 
 detectives I just examined the body and left leaving all the clues behind, but amazingly this had 
 no effect on future events whatsoever. This is really disappointing and it really ruins the replay 
 value for me.
  
  There are actually three different endings for the game but you make the choice of which ending 
 you want in the very last scene of the game, none of the choices you make before then have any 
 effect on the ending or any other events in the game. The endings feel rushed and incomplete.
 
  
  Overall I really enjoyed "Indigo Prophecy" and I would recommend it to anyone who longs to play 
 a quality adventure game, but I would also warn not to take much stock in the decisions you make 
 during the game, they don't really have any effect anyway. This game aspires to be as great as 
 say, Deus Ex, but it doesn't quite reach that high.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikang11
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 10, 2005 11:53 am PT
Review:  Well sadly enough the first thing you notice when you see the game is the not so great graphics 
 that the game has... but this game really shows that graphics isnt everything. It's not that importing.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is the big plus in this game. The story looks like something from a movie. A man named 
 Lukas Kane wakes up on a public toilet, with a meat knife in his hand on at small cafe where he 
 just had some food, a cop of coffee and was reading a book. Another man comes in to wash his hands 
 and Lukas Kane kills him in cold-blood. Lukas wakes up and notices what he had done. Now what you 
 are going to do is to help Lukas Kane by escaping, and proof his innocence. In the meantime 2 cops 
 come into cafe to investigate the murder. The special thing with this is that you also control 
 the 2 cops. The whole way through the game you are cashing yourself, when you are running away. 
 This gives a unique feeling to the game.
  
  Graphics:
  As said before the graphics is not good, but the reason I give it 8 are that the graphics fits 
 the stile of the game. It gives it a rough feeling you get from a thriller movie like "Seven".
 
  
  Sound:
  The sound is also first class. The voice actors are perfect. The soundtrack is great with lyrics 
 from "Theory of a Deadman", there gives great rock tunes to the game.
  
  Bottom line: 
  The thing that also is great is the new way you play action scenes. When an action scenes is coming. 
 8 buttons comes up on the screen with fits to 8 buttons on you keyboard, when one of the buttons 
 lights on the screen you have to push the button there fits on you keyboard. It makes the adventure 
 game more exiting.
  The reason why I set the tilt on 10 is that this properly is the best game I have bought this year 
 and it is the best adventure game I ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Felled
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 8, 2005 10:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is called "Feranheit" in Australia. I would like to say: It challenged something never 
 been done in the Adventure games before. But also it lost something a good Adventrue game should 
 have. First: Quests are too easy to solve. Most quests can be easily done without any thinking. 
 Second: The action scenes are quite amuzing. (This has been used in Dreamcast Game:"Shenmue" before. 
 ) but when you press eight direction buttons for five minutes without break off. Anyone will have 
 enough and feel boring.
  Last: The ending is very.... dissapointed and meaningless. The story suddenly end and You even don`t 
 know who the heck is that Indigo child. and Karla just fall in love with Lukas without any reason. 
 It doesn`t make any sense!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasperrussell
Rating: 3.9
Date: Dec 5, 2005 5:00 pm PT
Review:  When I was young, being good at a video game meant something. You couldn't just pick up a game 
 and do well straight away. You had to play over and over to get good, and you would be rewarded 
 by progressing further or achieving a higher score than your friends.
  The 'game' part of Fahrenheit is not challenging enough to be called a game. The only good bits 
 was working out the moving shelves in the police archive basement and the 2 bits where you play 
 as a kid in the army base. The simon says bits and the hypersports button pressing requires no 
 skill or practice to get through. If it wasn't for the occasional bit of walking, this game could 
 of been live action footage.
  This style of game is reminiscent of Dragon's Lair - the classic laser disc game. It required precise 
 timing of moves and you pretty much had to remember every move for every scene. It made it hard. 
 You had to work out what move you had to do and when based on what was happening. If a monster 
 was running at you and there was room to move to the left, then you had to move the joystick to 
 the left. In Fahrenheit, the coloured light overlays might as well be random as to the action. 
 And the fact that you have to watch this and not the action mean you don't even pay attention to 
 what's actually going on anyway.
  Like so many games nowadays, it's not a game, but 'an experience'. 
  The 'experience' is also 
 applicable to games where you can save at any point, so progress is never stopped until you've 
 finished it.
  Plus it's completely linear.
  Nice atmosphere and soundtrack - but overwise very unsatisfying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: project_monkey
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 5, 2005 4:52 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit  when I first heard about Fahrenheit, my initial reaction was something along 
 the lines of; It sounds like an incredible idea, bless em, but itll never happen. This wasnt 
 borne of some deep-seeded hatred for ambition (Red Faction, anyone?) , nor were they the words of 
 a cynic. The simple fact is, oh-so-many games have touted interactive movie! as their hook, and, 
 strangely, this is directly proportionate to the number of games that have been oh-so-disappointing.
 
  
  The problem is this  games that set out to be interactive movies usually do just that; the concept 
 of an interactive movie comes first, stories and gameplay come second. This is one of the deciding 
 factors that have made Fahrenheit the astounding accomplishment that it is. When playing the game, 
 I could almost feel the designers desire to tell a story as I sat wide-eyed in amazement at the 
 balls it must have taken to undertake such a project. Theres a certain innocence to the design 
 of the game  almost as if Cage and the team had never played a video game in their lives  yet 
 at the same time they seem to have an astute knowledge of game mechanics; of the concept of fun.
 
  
  As a media production student, I could spend all day ranting at how well QuanticDream have merged 
 the worlds of film and video game; such as the subtle yet impressively appropriate way the dynamic 
 cameras move in-game (Agathas hallway springs to mind) , or how the score reacts disturbingly 
 well to the players actions  this genuinely feels like a more supernatural episode of CSI or 
 24 folding out in front of you, your every move impacting upon the storyline  to the point where 
 the player is left yearning to know what if Id done this differently  but at the same time, 
 you feel so much like this is my storyline, and to repeat a chapter would somehow undermine the 
 individuality of the experience.
  
  I realise this is all a bit vague  and Im sorry, but youll have to forgive me. It would be unfair 
 to compare Fahrenheit to any other games in the adventure genre. Basic gameplay mechanics are as 
 follows; a Resident Evil 1-style movement system, QTE controls for the more tense moments in-game, 
 and the occasional bout of Track and Field-style button-bashing where your characters muscles are 
 required for a task. Just know that in between these sections (which are essentially just mini-games 
 based within the story) and the obvious finding of objects found in almost all adventure games 
 (even this manages to not become tedious or seem pointless  theres very little Its just a chair 
 in Fahrenheit) , it is here that Fahrenheit truly shines.
  
  There are arguments against the graphics (although to be honest this game isnt about realistic 
 explosions and physics engines) , which are more than made up for by the visual style of the piece 
 (this is one of the few times when a reviewer can feel proud to call a video game a piece of art) 
  grainy camera filters, excellent colours and Hollywood-worthy camera-work to name but a few examples. 
 An extremely enthralling story and expertly paced, Fahrenheit reminds us how great an adventure 
 thriller can be.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: whiteknight1111
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 5, 2005 11:02 am PT
Review:  fahrenheit is simply an amazing game, movie like game in where the plot follows different people 
 and different storys all heading towards a central goal.
  
  the controls are set up ok but this game is probably better played with a joypad as some of the 
 action sequences can be hard to pull off with the keyboard but with a few attemps you can get there. graphics 
 are on the good side and the sound and story kept me on the edge wanting to know what happens next, 
 me not being into games where you play as a characters asking questions and finding clues, this 
 was refreshing to play a story driven game that lets you make the choices rather than a game forcing 
 you do certain things.
  
  overall fahrenheit is a superb game that i will play again, and try differnt ways to finish it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: louiemaru
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 4, 2005 3:12 pm PT
Review:  This game (know as Fahrenheit in the UK) has to be one of the best games ever. This is because 
 of the sheer quality of the story, i really dont think i can manage putting this in words. I think 
 this could infact rival with the story of the well known MGS series ('the' best series ever) . The 
 fight scenes are just completely and utterly brilliant, especially when the three guards hold him 
 up, and he like runs up the wall n stuff. Tis just so amazingly well made! People who dont like 
 this game must be retarded, plain and simple. So, this game rocks your mums socks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spenta
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 3, 2005 11:57 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Borderline terrible. There are way too many rough edges for a game of this caliber. Think 
 Enter the Matrix after the graphics patch, but even that might be a bit too generous. When I go 
 from HL2 or CoD2 or Far Cry to this game I looks like Ive taken a step back in gaming graphics 
 at least 3 years. I certainly expect a better graphics engine from any titles released today.
 
  
  Sound: For trying to be an interactive move the sound was very uninspiring. No DTS controls infact 
 other then the basic volume controls there was little to no manipulation of sound control. Any 
 good soundcard is wasted on this game.
  
  Gameplay: What is usually touted as its greatest asset is truly the most dissapointing. There is 
 almost nothing you do in this game that has ANY effect on the actual outcome of the story. And 
 when you are doing something its often soemthing totaly rediculous and dumb. Take a scene where 
 you need to place 3 candles on a table and then light them. There are 3 seperate cutscene for each 
 candle you put on the table, 3 identical cut scenes. That might not be too bad but then there are 
 3 scenes each time you try to light the candles. So instead of just having a scene where you light 
 the candles you go up to each candle, pull out the matches, light the match, light the candle, 
 blow out the match and then put the matches away. then go over to the next candle and repeat the 
 same act... thats just dumb. And again other then making a choice that causes the game to end immediately (being 
 caught, or dying) there are no choices during the storyling that have any actual effect on how 
 the story is told or how it comes out. Being able to play 3 different characters is ok but its 
 also filled with holes. Take for example in the begining when you are inspecting the Diner. If 
 you go outside first with the girl youi can see the blood on the snow but there is no option to 
 investigate, what is clearly blood on the ground. However if you go outside with the male cop you 
 then have the option to investigate the blood. So am I to assume that somehow the trained more 
 experienced cop somehow missed the huge red spot ont he white snowy ground??!!
  
  Overall: Im not sure what this game is. Its not really an interactive movie IMO and its not much 
 of any other type of game Ive played either. Its definately a bargain bin game for a rainy day 
 when you cable modem is down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krisbl
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 2, 2005 8:35 am PT
Review:  Indigo Prophecy or Fahrenheit as it's called uses a whole new way of playing. Whatever you do with 
 your character, it has consequenses for your ongoing story. The game is about a man who wakes up 
 from his trance, on a bathroom in a coffeeshop and finds himself holding a knife and a dead body 
 on the floor. Instantly, you get sucked into the game. You control both this man, and also the 
 detective who later will investigate this murder.
  You controll what you want your character to do, and what you want the detectives to find. You 
 will also find a lovestory in here somewhere, believe it or not :)
  This creates a whole new gameplay, never seen before, and it works great. There is more than one 
 way to complete this game.. I would say it's closer to 100 ways.
  The graphics is not top notch, but the gameplay and the music sets the mood just right.
  The 
 depht of this game is incredible, buy it ! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carpetfeller
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 1, 2005 7:41 am PT
Review:  I have to say that I was a huge fan of adventure games back in their glory days but for many years 
 now all of them have failed to keep me interested. 3D graphics did somthing to these game that 
 for me made them less appealing. Mabey it was because the games looked more real but the stories 
 were so outlandish that I didn't care what happend. That was until this game, movies I enjoy and 
 understand. With this game I actually felt like I was participating in a movie and because I know 
 its a movie I don't have to necessarily believe the story just enjoy whats happening. The controls 
 of this game never gave me any trouble and were very easy to use. The one fault of the controls 
 were the button combination action sequences. I found these to be a little to easy and didn't make 
 me fell like I was controlling the action. I also felt like I was missing the incredible action 
 sequences because I was concentrating on what buttons I needed to press. As far as the story goes 
 I never found myself uninterested or board and I actually felt like my actions were driving the 
 story. Awesome game, wish it was a little longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zux2000
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 26, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  Fahrenheit (Indigo Prophecy) is one of the best games I have played! I got it at the launch and 
 it took me 3 days until I've finished the game. That's the only little thing I was disappointed 
 about... It was to short! But beside that, it's a great unusual game, it really has got it's own 
 style...
  
  I use to finish a game once then I don't wanna play it anymore, but this game can I play over and 
 over again. Because you can make so many different choises, and after that the game will turn out 
 to different directions! And on that way, it's funny to play it again, and always does something 
 else/different... Fahrenheit (the name here in europe) is very cool, awsome, fun and you name it. 
 The game starts in a toilet in a restaurant, where you kill a man with a knife. Then it all starts, 
 for example, you can wash your hands to take away the blood, hide the knife etc. And you fight's 
 trough the game to not be cut of the police, and here is one more cool thing, you also play as 
 the police. So you will do anything you can do to cut the killer and at the very same time you 
 are the killer and does whatever you can to not be cut of the police - Who you also play as. Sounds 
 complicated? It's not, it's just funny! - Play it, and you will understand...
  
  The gameplay, voices, the graphic, all the different things to choose to say and do in the game 
 - All this is great. But when it comes to the music it's totally perfect and more than just great! 
 The music couldn't been any better at all! The music is made by Angelo Badalamenti. (Most known 
 for the music from the TV serie's Twin Peaks.)
  
  I really hope for a follow-up to this game. No other games is like Fahrenheit, it totally has it's 
 own style! It's great!
  
  If you haven't already played this game: Buy it! You will NOT be disappointed... Trust me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowMP303
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 28, 2005 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Indigo Prophecy is a third person adventure game in which you play Lucas Kane, an average Joe IT 
 worker, who one night finds himself at the center of a mysterious murder in a bathroom diner. Kane 
 must cover his tracks, hide from police, and try to discover all the who, whats, and whys of the 
 murder he was forced to commit.
  
  Indigo Prophecy aspires to achieve a groundbreaking sense of "cinematic gameplay" by trying to 
 blur the line between movie and game through innovative gameplay and character development. While 
 it fails short of this lofty goal, Prophecy is a solid adventure experience through its unique 
 controls and, at times, compelling story.
  
  During action sequences, Phophecy employs two, 4 directional colored circles (reminesent of the 
 old Simon memory game) in a sort of follow the leader minigame. Depending on how well you can keep 
 up with what the screen tells you determinds if Lucas completes whatever he is trying to do, which 
 can range from playing the right note on his guitar to... well, some things a certain someone would 
 describe as "Whoa...."
  
  The story, however, is what is at the heart of Phophecy and can be discribed as both its greatest 
 strength, and later, its greatest weakness. The game does an excellent job in getting the player 
 involved in t he plot. Since you play both Lucas and the detectives investiagting the diner murder, 
 you feel the sense of urgency as you struggle to put all the puzzle pieces together of each side.
 
  
  Later in the game however, the story beings to fall apart as it moves of supernatural murder mystery 
 to sci-fi action adventure. Several improbable (and somewhat confusing) plot twist distract players 
 from the immersive atmosphere the game worked so hard for in the first half of the game. Also, 
 while the game promises multipule unique endings, some of these variations on dying, getting caught 
 by the police, and going insane, all resulting in game over. The game has 3 acual endings, but 
 they are essientially the same.
  
  All in all, Indigo Phophecy falls short of its goal, but having set such a high bar gives it plenty 
 of leway to fall. A refreshing break from the standard point and click adventure games, Indigo 
 Phophecy's intriguing plot and pretty solid gameplay make it more than deserving for you precious 
 gameplay hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SemperMalum2
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 28, 2005 3:38 pm PT
Review:  
  Indigo Prophecy (Fahrenheit) is not a game.
  
  Indigo Prophecy (Fahrenheit) is not a movie.
  
  There is no doubt in any person who had a chance 
 to experience this classic, innovative title that this is what the future for video games should 
 become; embrassing the cinema side of a video game while keeping the interaction side as well.
 
  
  The story starts off at a small diner in New York City. You are Lucas Kane. You watch as your body 
 drags across the rest room's floor only to stab a man to death. You snap out of the hypnosis state 
 to find yourself hunched over a dead body with a bloody knife in your hand. You remember there 
 is a police officer sitting at the bar seats of the diner. 
  
  What do you do? Do you pick up the knife and hide it? Do you drag the body into a stall? Do you 
 mop up the mess? Do you wash your hands? How about after that, when you leave the rest room? Do 
 you try to take off without paying your bill, or do you pay your bill before you leave? Do you 
 talk to everybody in the diner so that they would remember your face, or do you leave without saying 
 a single word? You get to decide that.
  
  The very first scene of the entire game is bloody brilliant, 'nd the experience only gets better 
 from that point on. The gameplay is great for what it was supposed to be... An interactive cinematic 
 experience. During certain action scenes, you get two "Simon Says" like dials that pops up. Depend 
 on how well you do, Lucas will move accordingly. If both dials point to the right, press the supporting 
 buttons. For certain sequences, you will need to press the left and right button for streneous 
 activities such as climbing a fench or hanging onto a helicopter (Yes, hanging onto a helicopter.) 
 There is a great tutorial that shows you exactly how to do everything such as dialogue which is 
 done with the mouse.
  
  The graphics are somewhat gritty, but it adds well to the overall tone of the game. The character 
 models look great, Lucas and Carla stand out well, while the rest fit what they are... Backstory 
 characters. The sound is great as well; the soundtrack fits well with every part of the game, every 
 part of the game sounds unique. The ending theme is played by Theory of a Deadman which is called 
 Santa Monica. This is important for several reasons; the song is -REALLY- addictive. It fits the 
 game perfectly, 'nd after playing this game, you -will- want to get that song while you stare at 
 the ending credits and go "WTF?"
  
  That leads into the ONLY faults of the game. Yes, there are faults with this brilliant game, that 
 was substantial enough to lower the rating quite a bit. There are two main faults. First off, the 
 camera does bug quite a bit. This isn't too big a issue, and it's something that you complain about 
 after you talk about the BIGGEST fault that this game has. It even deserves it's own paragraph.
 
  
  This game just AFTER the -best- fight sequence goes to complete hell. What do I mean? Well, they 
 throw you a complete random ending, a complete random build up to the final sequence, 'nd a complete 
 random plot twist. All of a sudden, there's another clan that's fighting for control. Hurray. This 
 game would have been almost perfect if it wasn't for that last scene. Unfortunately... From the 
 best fight sequence on the rooftop to the sloppy ending, it totally destroys almost every impression 
 of the game that you had at that point. Fortunately, though, the Santa Monica song helps bring 
 back some good ol' memories.
  
  All 'nd all, this game is a brilliant interactive cinema experience, that is plagued by only two 
 mistakes. And, yes, there are two version of this game. If you -really- want to see the sex scenes, 
 go ahead and get the european version, which totally adds -nothing- to the experience. Otherwise, 
 get this game, experience what may be the future of gaming (Hopefully, the cruddy endings don't 
 carry over!) and fulfill your prophecy as Lucas Kane. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcohenx
Rating: 6.1
Date: Nov 28, 2005 10:25 am PT
Review:  I just finished playing Indigo Prophecy and was disappointed. The initial description and demo 
 really caught my interest. I am a big fan of Atari games since the prehistoric days of M. U. L. E. 
 on the Atari 800 PC and matured to really appreciated games that can offer more than mindless destruction 
 in favor of an intelligent plot and story to tell. Unfortunately, my final perception is that this 
 game started with tremendous potential but was released prematurely to meet corporate deadlines. 
 I am genuinely puzzled by the unbelievably high ratings for this game by users on GameSpot (several 
 actually gave this a 10 out of 10; cmon guys, is this really a 10???) .
  
  You begin the game playing the role of Lucas Kane, an NYC IT technician for a banking firm who 
 savagely murders a stranger in the bathroom of a diner for no apparent reason. You spend the rest 
 of the game trying to piece together the motive behind the murder, uncovering a plot by secret 
 forces out to take over the world. 
  
  The game is played out in a series of chapters involving Q&A between characters, hunting for hidden 
 objects, and action sequences. The game is played almost entirely in the 3rd person by sending 
 commands to the characters to execute specific tasks, such as open a door, play a guitar, or ask 
 a question. There is a lot of freedom in terms of the order of events necessary to complete a chapter 
 so one can replay sections in a different order to see how this affects the outcome, but many chapters 
 have time limits to complete a set of directives so one has to think fast.
  
  The action sequences are unique. Rather than use the keyboard or controller to throw punches or 
 block attacks, there is a series of flashing lights corresponding to controller positions or keystrokes 
 that one must mimic in a very short amount of time. Entering the sequence incorrectly results in 
 a hit against the character or some other penalty. Hardcore gamers will likely find this format 
 boring for several reasons. Firstly, mastering the sequences is very easy, even on the highest 
 difficulty level. One is even given a Get Ready warning that an action sequence is coming. Gamers 
 who sharpened their controller skills on modern action titles like Mortal Kombat or Half-Life will 
 tear through almost all of the action sequences on the first attempt. Secondly, one must focus 
 acutely on watching the flashing lights. As a result one does not get to appreciate the action 
 actually taking place on the screen. More than once, I felt myself asking the question, Wait, 
 what did I just do there? because I was watching the lights instead of the action. Thirdly, given 
 the fact that this game comes from arcade pioneer Atari, I expected a more polished interface to 
 let one actually fight a character; instead, I get the feeling that I am directing someone else 
 playing the game.
  
  The story and plot development in the game is excellent in the beginning but later seems awkward 
 and rushed. Early on, the characters think and act much as real adults would. One note of caution, 
 the game is rated M for mature but it is definitely not for the violence or gore (note I said the 
 characters act as adults) . More importantly, depending on the actions of your characters, the mental 
 state will improve or decline. If the mental state drops too low the chapter will end. I am told 
 that in some cases you can induce a character to commit suicide due to depression. I was able to 
 land one character in an insane asylum. But by mid-game, characters are introduced without sufficient 
 explanation. This really lent to my impression that the game was released too early and if the 
 developers had more time they could have included more explanation behind the characters actions 
 and motivations. 
  
  The voice-acting is good but not exceptional and there are some sections, like when a character 
 asks himself, What am I, in a video game? That would be laughable if they werent so clichd. 
 The graphics are so-so and can be played on a modest system but on a high note the sets and scenes 
 are well rendered even if the characters seem a little wooden.
  
  Along the game, one can collect cards that contribute to Bonus Points. These bonus points can be 
 used outside the game to unlock special features such as art galleries, soundtracks, and goofy 
 additional movies but these are all just fluff.
  
  In the end, I was disappointed. A big name like Atari really should have released a better overall 
 product. Beginning gamers may appreciate the game for its simplicity but serious gamers would be 
 advised to steer clear of this one until it is available at bargain bin prices. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EatU4Lunch
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 28, 2005 6:03 am PT
Review:  Indigo Prophecy may very well become known as the game that brought back the Adventure genre. With 
 interesting characters, gripping plot and amazing presentation, it grips you and won't let go for 
 days.
  
  I will not bother describing the strong points of the game since plenty of others have already 
 done so. Instead I will focus on the flaws.
  
  The main problem with Indigo Prophecy is exactly the same as it was in Omikron if anyone remembers 
 that game that is.
  
  For the first 2/3rds of the game, everything makes sense, flows well, and then suddenly it's all 
 a mess. Characters begin to act nothing like you would expect, the plot takes some crazy twists 
 and turns and then suddenly it's all over. It really does feel like the developers simply ran out 
 of time/money and just figured, screw it, it's 3am, and I want to go to sleep, it's good enough.
 
  
  Still, the 2/3rds of the game that does feel finished is amazing and worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krizan99
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 27, 2005 10:26 am PT
Review:  Fantastic One Of the better games i had played! I can't play other games because im thinking of 
 it:) On the other hand i was to short!!! The end suprised me: ( I know there won't be another game 
 like that in next couple of years: ( Oh well, life goes on:)
  Gawrillo
  
  Fantastic One Of the better games i had played! I can't play other games because im thinking of 
 it:) On the other hand i was to short!!! The end suprised me: ( I know there won't be another game 
 like that in next couple of years: ( Oh well, life goes on:)
  Gawrillo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markbot
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 26, 2005 2:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is an example of why console games are inferior to PC games. It was enjoyable... but no 
 real PC game is a button masher. Gamers are perfectly capable of playing a game just for the story... sans 
 the button mashing.
  
  Despite the annoying childish immature button mashing.... this game was enjoyable.... although relatively 
 short..... maybe 12 hours.
  
  Although this is uses the graphics engine of of Quake 3 and similar level games... i thought the 
 graphics were very decent. I don't know why they don't make more adventure games based on FPS engines. 
 They should. The graphics r definitely good enough with the Doom 3 engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pert
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 26, 2005 10:04 am PT
Review:  When I picked up this game off the shelf with a friend I was like looks cool, something about a 
 cooky murder with a dark back story. Why not. So, I took it home and at first in the tutorial I 
 was like "Oh no are all the characters going to have a crazy bad french accent and almost shot 
 my self right there and then (obviously not really) , but then I actually started the games and 
 not one complaint came to mind really. I would have liked a bit more control during action sequences 
 but just watching them was fun on its own. I've always loved the Idea of normal guy with average 
 job becomes some really cool super hero type guy which is pretty much the definition of this game. 
 I say that everyone has to AT LEAST rent it, but if you like it enough (which you will) go buy 
 it and support it. Its that good!
  -Ryder Savage 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheTemplar
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 27, 2005 3:06 am PT
Review:  I'm not gonna write a long review of this game but I can tell you that from the moment I started 
 playing it to the moment I finished it I barely didn't move at all. It has an involving plotline 
 and characters which are really believable. The gameplay in itself is perhaps not all that great. 
 I played it with a PS2 controller for my PC and I recommend all others who want to experience this 
 game at its best to do the same (or play on a console) . Manipulating objects in the world is performed 
 by dragging the second analogue controller in a direction that would feel natural to you. There 
 are several movie-esque action sequences too that are played out through a dance-dance revolution 
 type game-play. This might not have been to bad if it weren't for the fact that this sub-game occupies 
 alot of your gaming time. There are some parts of the game where you, have to endure long marathon 
 sessions of this 'dancing' game. There is a scene mid-game which is extreme where you have to dodge 
 objects in a storm. This scene almost made me give up and I probably would have if I wasn't spellbound 
 by the story. Also these sub-games draw your attention away from the action, I found myself several 
 times just watching the directional arrows on-screen rather than the actual action.
  
  In the end, interesting game, should be played by all who love games because of its unique storytelling. 
 Graphics are ok but kind of seem like a cross platform product. The soundtrack of the game is really 
 good. I just wish they would have put more focus on character interaction and adventuring rather 
 than their silly action sub-game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 25, 2005 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Indigo Prophecy has had me intrigued since the demo was available. The demo gave me just a little 
 taste of what the game had to offer, and I was drooling for more in no time. When I heard that 
 my Xbox copy was lost in the mail, I was so disappointed, but I was lucky enough to receive a replacement 
 for the PS2.
  
  The most important thing to note about Indigo Prophecy is that it doesn't fall in a specific genre. 
 It's basically an interactive action movie with a non-linear storyline. You will play as the main 
 character, Lucas, but you're not limited to him. In fact, you must play all other three characters 
 to advance the plot: detectives Carla Valenti and Tyler Miles, and Lucas' brother, Markus. The 
 storyline is a very captivating plot that includes just the right doses of mystery, horror, action, 
 supernatural, suspense and (of course) romance.
  
  You start out as Lucas Kane, who until now was a normal guy. In a not so normal event (seriously 
 paranormal in fact) , Lucas finds himself possessed and unable to control himself as he repeatedly 
 stabs a man in a diner's bathroom. The adventure begins as Lucas tries to cover his tracks and 
 leave the diner in search of the truth.
  
  The freedom of choice is what makes this game so exceptional. Lucas is faced with a difficult choice 
 when a boy falls into the ice: save the boy and let the cops see him or leave and let the boy die. 
 When interrogating someone, Carla and Tyler will have several options, but you will want to pick 
 the right questions so you can find out more about the suspect... or not! And at times you will 
 have several characters at your disposal to play, at a given time. Most important, every decision 
 you make will influence the storyline later on.
  
  It is a bit strange to see the different events happening when you are controlling everyone. It's 
 especially weird because you are both the killer covering his tracks, and the detectives trying 
 to find him. But it makes for a very interesting gameplay experience where details are crucial. 
 One of the little things I found most curious was the way you put the suspect's picture together. 
 The waitress is supposed to describe it, but what happens is you have to make it look as close 
 to Lucas' appearance as possible and decide if the drawing looks like him or not. Well, you don't 
 have to, you can make a completely different face, but you get a likeness percentage score and 
 this will affect some actions later on. 
  
  Every action has a certain influence on a character's mood, and you will see it change frequently 
 throughout the game, so you will want to do all those little things that are available to keep 
 them "sane". So have a glass of water, a slice of pizza, wash your face, watch a little TV, even 
 peeing can add a little +5 to a character's mental health. If they get too depressed, the consequences 
 can be disastrous and they might end up committing suicide. Knowing me and my "dark" side, of course 
 I'm now playing through it again trying to kill everyone and getting all sorts of bad endings. 
 
  
  The action sequences are done by performing a series of movements with the analog sticks (Simon 
 Says style) or by using the left and right triggers. If you want to familiarize yourself with these 
 controls, I recommend playing the guitar first (slower controls) , then using the punching bag (faster 
 and more complicated moves) in Lucas' apartment.
  
  Controlling Carla's panic attacks, doing push-ups, swimming to safety, opening a stuck window and 
 several other actions will require some furious left trigger-right trigger tapping. From dodging 
 a flying kitchen cabinet, to playing a basketball, practicing at the shooting range, having a boxing 
 match, dancing or perform CPR, you will be using both analogs. Picking chat options, climbing a 
 fence, doing tricks with Carla's yo-yo or performing simple actions during the storyline requires 
 single or a series of right analog movements.
  
  Some of the analog action sequences are long and complicated, and this is where I find the game's 
 major flaw. While I was watching the colors and trying to match the moves, I was partly missing 
 what was going on in the background. I secretly wish there was an unlock function at the end to 
 watch the entire game as if it were a movie (without the color codes) , so I could just sit back 
 and enjoy it as a whole.
  
  There is also a collector's album in the game, which you access from the main menu. As your game 
 progresses, you will automatically unlock playable scenes which you can play as mini-games, including 
 some hilarious disco dancing and a very cool ice skating scene. Other things like soundtrack music, 
 some clips, behind the scenes footage and character art require bonus points to be unlocked. Bonus 
 points look a bit like playing cards, and you find them throughout the game in not so obvious places 
 (i. e. a kitchen cupboard or in a remote corner of a room where the camera angle makes it difficult 
 to see) . You also get 200 of them after beating the game.
  
  The graphics are a bit grainier than I expected and the textures look a bit fuzzy, but I really 
 liked the detail on the characters' faces, especially the eyes - they are very expressive and realistic. 
 Little details like leaving footprints in the snow, Lucas' hair turning white and visible breath 
 coming out of the characters in the cold outdoors weren't left out. Also impressive are the fighting 
 scenes, which seemed like something pulled out of the Matrix, perfectly choreographed. In fact, 
 all motion capture in the game is extremely well done. And then there are the split-screen scenes, 
 showing you important key elements of an event, which make the whole experience even more unique.
 
  
  Ultimately, Indigo Prophecy has a fantastic story, unique game controls, great music and excellent 
 voice acting, with a good amount of replay value because of the numerous free choice options. It's 
 the perfect game for those like me who live every bit of storyline as if they were there.
  
  I don't have enough words to say how pleased I am with this title. Lucas' epic adventure has 
 climbed to the top of my favorite-games-ever list. It was that "something different" that I've 
 been waiting for.
  
  It's certainly a revolutionary experience that no gamer should live without.
  
  This review 
 is part of Grrlgamer. com
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=indigoprophecy
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmilo_rws
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 26, 2005 7:54 pm PT
Review:  I've been tracking this game for a while. Its premise was that it would be a fresh experience for 
 the adventure gamer. And how right the hype was!
  Indigo Prophecy tries to innovate, and while it doesn't reinvent the whole genre, it's still has 
 some cool features worth to be mentioned.
  
  I'll start with Indigo Prophecy's innovative feature: gameplay. As I said, it's not groundbreaking, 
 but its little new details make it much more enjoyable. For example, most of the actions sequences 
 requiere you to press some buttons on your keyboard (or your gamepad, I used a keyboard) ala "Simon 
 Says" style. Sure, it can be childish at times, but it's nice to see how the button combinations 
 match the action sequences on the screen. It can even be an exciting and fun experience. In a few 
 words, it works, and it works well. 
  
  Next, the way how the player interacts with the gameworld. No longer you have to click, or double 
 click an item or NPC to interact with it. You must make a mouse gesture, representing the action 
 you want to execute. In conversations, you don't choose a line of dialogue, but you use a rather 
 simple mouste gesture to select an option represented most of the time by a single word, so you 
 don't get to know what your character will say until you select an option. There's also a timer 
 in conversations, so you must think quickly what option you'll choose.
  
  Also, like in a movie, you get to play with all of the three main characters, uncovering the plot 
 in (most of) its totality. Talking about the plot, it's catchy but it fails to deliver near the 
 game's final chapters. You play as Lucas Kane, an average Joe who has got into trouble, he has 
 killed a stranger in a restroom of a diner while he was possesed by someone. Now he must uncover 
 the truth before the cops arrest him. There are lots of plot twists in here, as well as short side-stories.
 
  As I said, you get to play as Kane and as the two cops that are in his trail.
  
  Let's talk about graphics. People say that graphics can make or break a game. This is not the case, 
 mainly because I. P manages to be an awesome game, even with its dated (not to say primitive) graphics. 
 Sure, the characters' animations are great (with the exception of Tyler walking) , but let's face 
 it: this game looks very, very old. Bland textures, basic geometry in objects, poorly detailed 
 characters, unsurprising special effects...
  
  But, graphics are not everything in a game. That leads us to the sound portion of this review. 
 The audio is incredibly well crafted in this game: the voice acting is one of the best I've ever 
 had the pleasure of listening to. Also the soundtrack is spectacular, not to mention the additional 
 "radio" tracks that are available too, including songs from Theory Of A Deadman. Santa Monica rocks!
 
  Sound effects are not quite great, but they deliver most of the time.
  
  There is not much value in this game. Most of the actions you decide to make don't have much importance, 
 they only vary your mental health. The main storyline has three endings, and you can easily play 
 through all of them at the game's final chapters (anyone who has played Deus Ex will know what 
 I mean) . There are some bonuses here and there, but they're not too great, although they help to 
 extend the game's life in your hard drive.
  
  Overall, Indigo Prophecy is a great game, it's the fresh air that adventure gamers needed since 
 Syberia was released. It is a fun, addictive and immersive game with a great storyline, amazing 
 soundtrack and... primitive graphics. But like I said, in these kinds of games graphics do not 
 matter that much, do they? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ibrahimbilal
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 25, 2005 1:32 am PT
Review:  wat a great game..... every feature has been efficiently and accurately processed. THe best part 
 of interest is that of the story deciding and the fun is that of situation creating.... where the 
 emotions of the character changes with how you direct the story.... graphics are realistic.... split 
 screens according to the situations are really helpful and interesting
  the dark side is about the controls.... camera work is smooth but not user friendly.... the controls 
 are of new kind and abit awkward.... it takes time to select suitable camera for moving your character 
 in easy way... 
  But overall, this game is worthplaying as this is a new addition to styles of roleplaying games. 
 must play to experience new gaming environment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cawscorp
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 24, 2005 11:53 am PT
Review:  This is one of the few games out there that entertains AND is intellectually stimulating. Yeah 
 it's not hack and slash. Go get one of those war games where you just shoot people if you want 
 that. This game draws you into a mysterious adventure right from the start. The atmosphere, the 
 soundtrack, the characters and the acting are all superb. Game movement is a little awkward at 
 first, but once you get the hang of it, you can lose yourself in the story. I wasn't thrilled with 
 some of the action sequences- you have to focus on the controls instead of being able to enjoy 
 what's unfolding on screen- that's the ONLY reason I'm not rating this a 10.
  I also enjoyed being able to play different characters and being able to play the scenes from different 
 perspectives. This game also soars past others in its class because of the ability to make different 
 choices that will affect your outcome. Many adventure games miss out on this aspect- it's one path 
 and one path only. A+ for creativity.... something that is sorely lacking in video games these days...
 
  Overall great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haplo699
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 24, 2005 6:12 am PT
Review:  Yep thats right interactive movie, a title that is always lopsided with the emphasis always having 
 been on movie. Typically these would consist of lots and lots of FMV with a simplistic interface 
 that may as well have been a customised media player. 
  
  This reviewers heart fell when I heard this promising serial killer game was an interactive movie. 
 I thought great, 3 hours of watching the computer play itself. Well Im a big man, I can admit 
 when I was wrong, I was wrong and how.
  
  Fahrenheit starts off with the lead character Lucas Kane regaining his senses in the mens room, 
 a deep concern in normal circumstances, but a downright unnerving one when theres a dead body 
 at your feet, a knife in your hand and blood all over you. This is the perfect scene for the game 
 to start with as it demonstrates exactly what it is all about, choice. Do you take your time, hide 
 the body and weapon, clean up as much as you can and stroll out or just panic run through the caf 
 covered in blood and hightail into the night? Do you take a cab and risk having cab records pulled? 
 This is just the start of an epic which sees Lucas struggling to understand what happened to him 
 all the while being hunted by the police. Now heres the kicker you dont just play Lucas, you 
 also play as the detectives hunting him. These being Carla Valenti, a driven career woman (and 
 a bit of a babe if I could retreat to my geek roots for a moment!) and Superfly clone Tyler Miles. 
 What makes it so interesting is that if you screw up as Lucas it makes it easier for Carla and 
 Tyler.
  
  The control system is a little different you move using the cursor keys in Resident Evil style, 
 but when you need to interact with something its not a simple button press. An icon appears at 
 the top of the screen with a pattern on it, you have to hold down the left mouse and trace the 
 pattern, each pattern is designed to be similar to the motions the character needs to make to perform 
 the action.
  
  Action scenes are a little different two dials consisting of four sections each appear on screen 
 and you have to repeat patterns with corresponding button presses of the cursor keys and key pad. 
 Sounds primitive and weird, I know, but it works. Perhaps why it works is because the pattern is 
 dictated by the action on screen, if you need to slide under a car the pattern throws a double 
 down at you. While youre not actually controlling the action, you somehow feel that you are.
 
  
  The storyline itself is movie quality and rife with twists and turns which I would consider sacrilege 
 to divulge here. The graphics for the most part are fine, were not talking Doom 3 but neither 
 are we talking Q-Bert. The models of Lucas and Carla are superb, some of the fringe characters 
 havent had as much time lavished upon them, Tyler hasnt either but none to the extent that they 
 look out of place.
  
  There are problems with it however, the Resident Evil control system is outdated and a little clunky 
 and towards the end of the game the characters, who up until that point have been cautious and 
 logical to the point of realistic, suddenly develop a devil may care attitude and leap head first 
 into things they dont understand.
  
  But none of those issues are significant enough to hurt the game much. I thoroughly enjoyed my 
 time in the world of Fahrenheit, it is short and will take most people under 10 hours to complete, 
 but there is a saving grace. Because the game is freeform as much as it can be, the plot alters 
 at certain decisions and youll want to go back and check out different scenarios, there are for 
 instance three endings.
  
  I believe Fahrenheit a game that has something for everyone in it and transcends the gender barrier 
 effortlessly. Personally I hope they make a second instalment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seph1R
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 22, 2005 1:01 pm PT
Review:  I waited quite long to get my hands on this game, and I didn't quite know what my expectations 
 should be. Adventuring in 3D seemes a bit repulsive to me (based on my prior experiences) , and 
 yet it was obvious to me that the classic point-n-click adventuring was dead, and that adventure 
 games need to somehow adapt to three dimensions or become extinct. I should also point out that 
 after playing the demo i was impressed, but where I'd be by judging games by their demos, I don't 
 know but I doubt I'd like it.
  So, yadda yadda, introduction done, let's move on to the game itself. I won't pshilosophise much 
 - I loved the game. Don't get me wrong, I *didn't* like it's controls. I *didn't* like it's camera. 
 I *didn't* like that it was a conversion from consoles and that it didn't have a normal save system. 
 I *didn't* like some irritating action parts. I *didn't* like some inconsistnecies in the story. 
 How then did I like the game? I frankly can't say. It has some kind of charm, it's got that "I-just-got-to-finish-this" 
 feeling.
  The graphics are not bad, but they're not that good either. You can plainly see that the engine 
 is not high-end, but at least it allowed me to play with anti-aliasing and anisotropic filtering 
 maximised on a mid-range machine (A64 3000+, GeForce 6600GT) . The main thing about graphics is 
 that while it' not spectacular, it also doesn't get in the way.
  Game's soundtrack is, well, extremly good. Not only is it atmospheric and does it follow what's 
 actually going on in the game (and seem quite "grand" on a few occasions) , but you can also play 
 a guitar, choose which songs to play on your own stereo, the music on the stereo being quite listenable. 
 Also, the voice-overs are *extremly* good, I think they employed proffesional actors, and the result 
 is, least to say, impressive.
  And now on to gameplay... Well, I can say with one-hundred percent certainty that there will be 
 people who will play this game for half an hour and then throw it away never to be seen again. 
 As I said before, it's far from perfect. But the weird thing is, the game elements somehow *fit*. 
 It has adventure parts, hiding-in-the-shadow parts, and pure arcade hit-this-button-fast parts, 
 and it all somehow fits. It has dreamlike trances, it has matrixesque figths, it has sport-minigames, 
 it has sex, it has it all. And I can't really say how, but it fits. The story is compelling, the 
 gameplay is mostly extremly fun, and I don't really believe when I say this - but it has some of 
 the best action parts I've ever seen in a game. And, although it's not 100% non-linear, it has 
 quite a replay value. Trust me on that.
  The conclusion would be that it's a very unique game, and there was a certain risk involving in 
 making and publishing it. But the developer team was enthusisatic and original and it payed out. 
 It keeps surprising you, and most of those surprises are quite good. So, despite certain technical 
 difficulties with controls and camera angles, and the fact that sometimes in the game you'll say 
 "what the heck?!?", it's definetly worth playing. If for nothing else, just for saying 'kudos' 
 to the brave developer team.
  (And let it be mentioned that it definetly has the hottest chick ever to appear in a computer game) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackie103
Rating: 1.3
Date: Nov 22, 2005 5:25 am PT
Review:  If the game controls could be modified somewhat Indigo Prophecy would be a great game. The keyboard 
 setup just does not get it. Its even harder to try and set it up on a advanced gaming controller 
 or a joystick. The controling idea of such a great game leaves just a little bit to be desired. 
 
  Myself I moreso enjoy the option of playing just one character, but to each their own. 
  For unknown reasons to this player this game seems to not be able to run 
  on a high end gaming 
 machine very well. I have had several crashs just in the training room. 
  The complexity of the game playing controls and the frequent crashs make me almost want to uninstall 
 it and go back to playing great games like Call of Duty etc. Out of curiousity and the overly high 
 price of this game I will see if I can find as much joy as I have in other Atari games.
  The graphiics seem great until I crash, which seems to be quite often.
  The audio portions are 
 great but............ Atari needs to revamp Indigo Prophecy a bit for my tastes and I imagine quite 
 a few other gamers have a few complaints as well. Nice try Atari, but no thank you. I guess a refund 
 is out of the question? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Dueler
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 20, 2005 4:12 pm PT
Review:  The only bad stuff about this game is the graphic, the moving controls, and... thats all!!! Everything 
 else is just superb!! Why can't there be more games like this?
  
  The graphics are dated (reminds me off early PS2) . The moving controls (i. e. walking) are a bit 
 screwy and even walking in the right direction was a chore.
  Don't even get me started one the gameplay time... grrrr...5-6 hours.... was looking for maybe 20!!! 
  .  But yes, this game did give me the sense of urgency and I had really felt the emotion that 
 was in the game. 
  
  Another thing about this game was the music... IT WAS JUST SOOOO AWESOME!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lambizkit
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 18, 2005 9:56 pm PT
Review:  Playing Indigo Prophecy
  
  
  
  I just got home from the store with a new copy of Indigo Prophecy in my hands. Honestly I didn't 
 know what to expect from this game. After reading the back of it I thought it sounded interesting 
 and so I made the purchase. After about 15 minutes into the game I knew I was going to enjoy this 
 one. 
  
  First the game allowed me to make my own choices and then, get this, adapted the story to my choice. 
 Now it didn't affect it in a grand manner but it put a smile on my face when the waitress had mentioned 
 that I ran out of the diner without paying my bill. I then tried it again and payed my bill and 
 her story changed. Very cool. Also you can have character get a drink when you think he is thirsty, 
 or use the bathroom, or play his guitar to mellow him out. The choice is up to you. There are numerous 
 things that you can do. 
  
  Second the game allows you to play both sides. That of the murderer and that of the detectives 
 on the case, now honestly not many games allow you to do that. I find it very intriguing to try 
 and cover my tracks as the murderer and then when I play the detectives try and catch him. 
  
  Third the story is excellent. The game feels like you are watching a movie and to tell you 
 the truth if they made a motion picture out of this I would be the first in line to watch it. Yes, 
 it's that good. But instead of just being a movie the game trys to be an interactive movie where 
 you make choices and feel part of the action and I must say it does a great job in that department. 
 For example you will get to choose what you want to say when you are speaking to people. The dialogue 
 choices will be presented at the top and while a bar counts down the time you must choose one of 
 them by moving the mouse in a certain direction. Now most of the time it really doesn't matter 
 what choices you make as you will get to choose all of them eventually but sometimes the flow of 
 the story can be altered depending on what you choose to say. Another way they get you involved 
 with the game is through the use of mini-games. When you are in a part of the story where the action 
 is heavy a simon-says type game will pop up. There will be two circles each with 4 sides of different 
 colors. Each side corresponds to a movement key on the keyboard. For these purposes you can set 
 up two sets of movement keys. When the color lights up on one of the circles you have to mimic 
 it by pushin the correct key. Now if you do this correctly then he dodges enemies, makes jumps 
 and the story flows smoothly. You are also given a certain amount of lives and if you fail the 
 mini-game then you will lose one of these and be given the chance to try it again. Since you are 
 given all of this control in the game it would make sense to have different outcomes based on what 
 you choose and the game delivers in this department with 3 different endings. So there is alot 
 of replayability. Once you have finished the game you can go back to any of the previous chapters 
 and redo it differently to see each on of the endings. Also throughout the game in hidden places 
 you will find bonus points which you can use to unlock a variety of objects at any time so once 
 again replayability is a big factor in this game if it interests you to earn all of the unlockables. 
 
  
  One of the other interesting things about this game and what makes it stand apart from most others 
 is it's mental health system. You have a bar that gauges your current mental health. Your character 
 can be anxious, tense, wrecked, or depressed. To increase your mental health you can do various 
 task like relaxing to some music, getting a drink of cold water, using the restroom and other numerous 
 task that one would associate with feeling good. Now depending on what mood you are in doesn't 
 affect your personality or the game much, unfortunately, but if you do happen to reach rock bottom 
 then it's game over for you. It's a good idea to have it relatively high as some parts in the game 
 can reduce it quite drastically.
  
  Fourth the sound in this game is excellent. The game ships with a killer soundtrack and each song 
 is tailored to the perfect moment within the game. For example when your at your apartment you 
 can practice some moves on your punching bag. Once you start punching and kicking it a hard rock 
 song kicks in to add flavor to the game. The voice acting is excellent also. Each voice portrayed 
 fits perfectly for each character and you get a feel for their personality. 
  
  So if you haven't picked this game up yet, I would recommend it. It could possible be the best 
 story written for the year if not ever. If you liked Shenmue, you will like this.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 13, 2005 10:12 pm PT
Review:  You sit in a bathroom stall, cutting your wrists with intricate patterns. You stare blankly at 
 the door of the stall like you are in another world. Someone comes into the bathroom. As they stand 
 their, you stumble out of the bathroom. You are aware of your actions in your subconsciousness, 
 but you cannot stop yourself. You are like a puppet for some person that you cannot see. You pull 
 out a knife and stab the man three times. All of the sudden you come back to your senses and have 
 to figure out what happened and what to do next.
  
  This is how you start off the game. I could tell you everything that I did next, but it may not 
 be the same. The options that you are presented in this game are what make it so good. You are 
 in a diner, and you are aware that there is a policeman in the lobby. At some point he will come 
 in. What do you do? Clean up the scene, but risk getting caught by taking the time to do it? Maybe 
 jump out a window? Run out of the diner without stopping for anyone or anything? Any of these are 
 plausible and doable. That is the thing. If an option is present, you can do it.
  
  And the clock is ever present. Events and people keep moving. Regardless of what you do or say. 
 This is the other dynamic that is so cool and more adventure games need to pick up on this style. 
 When a dialogue option appears, you have a finite time to answer with one of several options. Don't 
 answer in time and you lose those dialogue options. By this virtue, you feel very engaged to your 
 characters. Yes, you read that right, characters, as in more than one.
  
  When you play the game, you play as one of several protagonists. You see the game from several 
 different angles. It is slick and very well done. Sometimes, these paths intertwine and at other 
 times, they never cross. It is really quite well done and allows you to examine the same situations 
 from both sides of the coin.
  
  There are some battle sequences in the game, but are handled in a SIMON like fashion. Two circles 
 show up on the screen. One controlled by the arrow keys and one controlled by the numpad. When 
 a color is shown on the screen, click the corresponding direction on the correct pad. It is really 
 well done and works into the game quite nicely. Towards the end of the game, these come up more 
 often, so if this type of pattern recognition bothers you, you will want to think about that before 
 you purchase.
  
  Graphically, the game is good, but not great. The models are well done and the environments are 
 good, but they are not great. And they don't really have to be, because the graphics are not the 
 big highlight to an adventure game. There are no real clipping issues and no other anomalies that 
 I can think of in the game. The game takes place during a blizzard, so most of the landscapes are 
 covered in snow. But the internal sets are quite nice.
  
  Sound is super in this game. Ambient noise had me looking over my shoulder on several occasions 
 as I got chills from the sound. Music is fantastic and I am already looking for an import soundtrack. 
 It is diverse and very fitting. Character voiceovers are done with emotion and really carry a good 
 sense of the characters. When you hear Lucas Kane, you hear the burden of a killing that he does 
 not understand. It is quite well done by most. Some of the bit players ham it up a bit, but overall, 
 very good.
  
  The control scheme is also quite nice on the PC. The mouse and the arrowpad and numpad controled 
 most of the game options. And they are nice and responsive and give you a good sense of character 
 movement. Also, I 
  
  Now there are a few downers in the game. The SIMON sequences can take away from the action on the 
 screen because you are so focused on the color rings. The game is short in length. About eight 
 hours through the whole story. This misses some of the side plots, but it may be an issue for some. 
 For me, I thought the length was good and there is a lot of replay value. Also, there were a couple 
 of loose ends that bothered me a bit in the game. I was able to finish the game, but there were 
 a few lingering questions that would of been nice ot get answers to, including one huge one that 
 is plot related. There was also a bug with my Diamond Razer mouse. Clicking on the side buttons 
 would crash out the game. It was an issue of modifying my finger placement on the mouse, but it 
 is a problem that would be nice to have fixed.
  
  Not a flaw, but a heads up is the fact that this is a mature game. I played the European version 
 and it does contain some nudity and gruff language. I am not sure about the US version, but it 
 should be noted if you have younger people possible playing this game.
  
  Overall, the game is a fine example of what happens when someone is given a lot of ground to innovate. 
 The adventure game may have a golden revival if more games can pull of this kind of gameplay. Everything 
 is in place ot give you a great experience with a lot of replay value. You owe it to yourself to 
 play this game. Regardless of your game types. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danteslays
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 12, 2005 9:14 pm PT
Review:  This game (which constantly refers to itself as a movie) is.... well... OKAY. The story is filled 
 with plot holes. Like why does this guy become neo? The game play is fine for walking around. Only 
 reason i am giving this game a score that is higher than OKAY (5.0 in my books) is BEST FIRST LEVEL 
 EVER!! Cleaning up a murder scene then becoming the cops and finding what you left behind! After 
 that the plot seems like it is going to be wild and zany! when you find out the truth and get to 
 the end you are left with a bad taste in your mouth. First play on normal diffuculty 3 hours 41 
 minutes. Second go on hard 2 hours 31 minutes. Not trying to break any records, but its easy and 
 short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: latin_boi
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 12, 2005 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Indigo Prophecy is truely a one of a kind gaming experience. Instead of letting you explore the 
 world of the game with the occasional cutscene, Indigo Prophecy acts as one really long cutscene 
 that you take part in every single minute of every single hour you will play this game. Lucas Kane 
 finds himself in the restroom of a local diner, but underneath him, a man lies dead. He has no 
 recollection of what happened or how he killed the man. You are lead to assume that he was possesed 
 by someone, but you must figure all the secrets out throughout the game. He immediately realizes 
 that there is a cop in the restaurant and cleans up the mess, and hides the body. After this, he 
 flees the scene of the crime. At this moment, the game switches to two cops, the amazingly beautiful 
 Carla Valenti, and cool and witty Tyler Miles. At this moment, you have to "investigate your own 
 crime" in a sense. It may seem easy, but it will require a little thinking to do. You must switch 
 back and forth between cops in order to find the different clues and delve further into the mystery. 
 This game is really addictive, and despite it being short, you will more than likely play it more 
 than one time. Indigo Prophecy takes the idea of every choice having a consequence that was introduced 
 to us in Fable for the Xbox, and actually delivers on that. Everything you do can have a negative 
 or positive influence on your mental status. If the mental status reaches zero, the character will 
 commit suicide, and the game will end. Luckily though, you have to be trying to get your character 
 to get depressed because it's rather hard to get it low without it raising back up. However, this 
 makes how you complete each mission as each character come back to make or break you later in the 
 game. Speaking of characters, you do play as a diverse cast of characters, each one you will get 
 to know and love throughout the course of the game. Normally, you will start off as Lucas as he 
 investigates what happened at the diner, and how he killed that man. Afterwards, you will then 
 play as Carla and Tyler as they continue to solve the mystery of Lucas Kane. Throughout the game, 
 all three characters are really developed and you learn to love each and every one of them. When 
 you hear this, you may say "how dull... you don't really get into any action packed parts," but 
 you're definately wrong. Especially at the end when things start to build up towards the climax, 
 you will partake in some amazing action sequences using a unique simon says type of gameplay. This 
 adds a challenge to the game, and a very original sense of fun. The game does a great job of switching 
 from interactive cutscenes to the action packed ones, and it allows for a ton of satisfaction for 
 many gamers from many gaming backgrounds. I will say, for those of you looking for some good clean 
 family fun, this is not the game you're looking for. Not only is there violence and blood, but 
 there is a TON of nudity and sexual content. I will say, this makes the game's story a lot more 
 mature and appealing to an older crowd. Overall, Indigo Prophecy features a wonderfully written 
 story and an overall addictive and fun way to play it, and it's nothing but a joy to play. The 
 graphics of the game is overall disappointing. They are not bad, and the presentation is good, 
 but it could have looked a lot better. The character designs are blocky, and it's really unattractive 
 especially when you see half of the cast in their underwear or less. The coreography of the action 
 scenes is really good though, but up until then, the overall look of the game isn't really great. 
 The sound of the game is really great however. It features a ton of lisenced songs to accompany 
 a lot of the mysterious and action packed parts of the game. In addition to great music to help 
 establish the many fields and atmospheres of the game, the voice acting throughout the game is 
 pretty much flawless. This helps gives the character their each personality no matter how insignificant 
 they are. Sound effects are awesome and once again adds to the mysterious or action packed feels 
 of the game. The sound in the game is definately one of my favorite parts of the game. Overall, 
 Indigo Prophecy is a very great game on many different levels. Despite sub par graphics, the game 
 delivers unique, fun and addictive gameplay, and an overall amazing presentation. It may have a 
 short story, but there are plenty of choices you can explore to renew your experience and plenty 
 of extras that are fun to explore. This game should not be missed by anyone looking for a new, 
 enriching game experience. You'll be fully entertained by this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Melgo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 12, 2005 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Indigo Prophecy is a game that is hard to describe. Its one of the most ambitious projects to date. 
 Originaly intended as a episodic game, it finally arirved in as one complete package. Unfortunately, 
 it seems that this might've hurt the title in several key areas.
  
  The premise of the game is interesting enough and it immediately intrigues you,. A murder in a 
 small diner leads you into investigation of said incident through the perspective of both murdered 
 and investigators. This is definately intriguing and compels you to play past the introductory sequence. 
 Unforunately, the rest of the game doesnt quiet live up to its introduction. A few hours into the 
 game, the story starts dissolving into a hollywood inspired action movie. Perhaps this would have 
 come more naturaly if the game remained episodic, but in this state the change is very sudden and 
 unnatural. It suddenly seems as if the player has moved from a interactive Twin Peaks and towards 
 a Matrix style experience. It seems as if several key story points are missing and the whole game 
 starts to lose focus.
  
  Calling the game an interactive movie isnt far from the truth. You do spend the majority of the 
 game watching, rather than playing. However, these movie sequences require input from the player. 
 An interface similiar to that of the Dance Dance Revolution games gives the player commands that 
 must be accomplished. The success of these minigames results in a different outcome of that section 
 of the game, which eventually adds up to what ending you get. 
  
  Apart from these interactive sequences the game controls fairly well, using a series of mouse gestures 
 for the usual tasks such as examining and using items. Several stealth based sections are present 
 in the game, the control in these is not optimal, and generally suffers from the usual stealth 
 problems (in both control/execution, and camera work) .
  
  Sound design is very impressive, the games soundtrack fits the mood of the game perfectly, There 
 isnt much ambient music, however major pieces play throughout the various interactive movies. Despite 
 other peoples' complaints, I had no problems with any of the music, and it didnt feel out of place 
 either. Its clear however that its a matter of personal preference. The graphics are of reasonable 
 quality and character animation is generaly excellent with a animation bug here and there.
  
  Indigo Prophecy/Fahrenheit is an incredible experience, a breakthrough game. Although the initial 
 premise gets lost half way through the game and the ending feels forced and unnatural it is still 
 fun to play. It is a rather short game, under 10 hours first time through. However, the addition 
 of multiple difficulity modes and endings, as well as the amount of unlockable features gives enough 
 incentive for repeated play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArtursSalnikovs
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 12, 2005 9:44 am PT
Review:  Well.. since Mafia came out and i completed it.. there were no other games, that i can say i just 
 WANTED to play badly every day .. Fahrenheit has a signs of a perfect game. I just loved the atmosphere 
 all game long, and i was really thrown into the world of Lucas Cane. Story was perfect in 3/4 part 
 of the game. The only - that i have noticed in this game was the ending.. i mean, i was expecting 
 something more, something more realistic, cuz in the beginning i tought that this will be just 
 a crime adventure, with no Sci-Fi in it, you know what i mean, that Kane was only dreaming in the 
 beginning of the game.. and like in a movie he passed some kind of tragedy or sum like that and 
 became and were blacking out.. graphics were enjoyable and in the end i would like to say thank 
 you to all people that gave a touch to make this amazing game.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajbm5g
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 10, 2005 10:40 am PT
Review:  This is probably the only adventure game I finished, because I am not a big fan of the genre. I 
 sometimes download adventure game demos to see how the genre is progressing, and I happened to 
 download this one. After I finished the demo, I was surprised as to how open ended it was. So I 
 went out the next day and bought it. The game is rather fast in the action sequences, and the rest 
 usually go by quickly, so this isn't the traditional  
 adventure. My only problem is that the graphics are very outdated and downright sad at times.
 
  
  The gameplay is very straight forward. You need a dual analog controller to enjoy this game, or 
 else you may find it excruciatingly frustrating. You control the person using the left analog, 
 you use the buttons for the usual things. The triggers are used to control the camera as well as 
 context sensitive events. The right analog is used as context sensitive events, sometimes with 
 the left analog. It actually works better than most would think. The storyline is solid, although 
 all these black haired kids are popping up everywhere in movies and games. You get to play as various 
 characters throughout the game, although it doesn't matter who you pick, usually.
  
  The sound is amazing. The soundtrack is absolutely stunning, with some orchestral sequences and 
 some rock for the mood. The voice acting is done decently, which is a big thing with adventure 
 games. I would have liked to see some 5.1 support though. The graphics are just enough to make 
 you feel like a part of the game. They are mediocre at best. The effects are done decently enough. 
 But the textures and body physique are very poor by today's standards. If only they got the graphics 
 correct, this could've a much better game.
  
  Overall the game will appeal to all adventure veterans, and it will also be attractive to new adventure 
 gamers. There are very almost no glitches in the game. The sound is great. The gameplay is solid. 
 If only they would've worked on the graphics a bit more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diddyabc
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 10, 2005 10:31 am PT
Review:  Simply put, this game is a cinematic masterpiece. The action sequences are excellent. In these 
 sequences the player is given enough control of the character to remind them that they're playing 
 a game without compromising the cinematic integrity of the scene. On the other hand, the puzzle 
 solving is satisfyingly reminiscent of the old PC Adventure genre. One should realize that the 
 graphics in this game are not "top-of-the-line," but I believe that this was intentional so as 
 not to require a state-of-the-art machine in order to run the game. My verdict: if you're a PC 
 gamer, then buy the game; if you're a movie buff, then buy the game; if you do not fall into either 
 of these two categories, buy the game anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaDNqRa
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 9, 2005 4:07 am PT
Review:  Fahrenheit (aka Indigo Prophecy) is the GAME. I installed it, wondering whether the 10 points (revolution) 
 it received in my favourite games magazine, is deserved or not. Hell yeah, it is absolutely accurate! 
 
  In the beginning when I was a simply a witness of my OWN acts, it is such a horrible and brilliant 
 scene, the best opening I've ever experienced in a video-game, so I said to myself that this is 
 what I need.
  From the  through the little commandos-alike gameplay 
 in the military base, to the perfect cut-scenes, this game didn't disappoint me at all.
  Seems to me that it's the first time I really want to help my in-game personality, I understood 
 him, I even sympathised him! I was inside the game, in Lucas' adventure, simply swallowed by the 
 extremely realistic atmosphere and the fascinating history. 
  Talking about the old graphics is pointless, for me games are much more based on gameplay and atmosphere 
 rather than pixels and shaders. At the balance I cant miss the ingenious voice-acting, soundtrack 
 and cutscenes, they are breathtaking!
  You don't need reviews at all, just play this game, I hope you will enjoy it as much as I did! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: analogeist83
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 8, 2005 2:48 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about Indigo Prophecy, I wasn't very excited. Blah, blah, blah psychological 
 thriller with horror/sci fi elements. You'd think that Dean Koontz is a main game developer with 
 the way that the words "psychological" and "thriller" are being thrown around in industry hype 
 and previews nowadays. Things changed when I happened upon an interview with the director/developer 
 David Cage. What really struck me was the passion that he had invested in bringing this game to 
 fruition. Although I am pleased with the quality of game sequels that have hit stores recently, 
 I was looking for something fresh, and it seemed like this game could have potential. I was a bit 
 wary at first since it seemed to lean toward the "interactive video" category. Anyone who remembers 
 the early days of Sega CD (e. g. Sewer Shark and the like) can attest to the horrors that this particular 
 niche can bring to the world. However, from the moment I actually got into the gameplay, I could 
 tell that this was different. It took some getting used to, but the characters interact with their 
 environment in an organic way that helps the storyline of the "film" to progress. I enjoyed the 
 timing challenge of the analog stick gameplay, which is kind of like simon says on speed. It was 
 also enjoyable to have little side challenges like making Lucas play the guitar, or the basketball 
 challenge with Jeff. Another positive attribute of this game is its verisimilitude. In movies, 
 characters constantly drink coffee, alcohol, and water, but when do they take the time to pee with 
 all the running about they do? This game helps to answer that question. Mundane actions help to 
 immerse the player in the game, and also offer options for improving the character's mental state. 
 As for the story, I had no idea where the game was going to end up by the time I finished. I liked 
 being surprised by different twists and turns, but I could have done with a bit more explanation 
 in some areas of the plot. Overall, it was a risk to release a game like this into an action/adventure 
 oriented market. Despite some flaws, I hope to see more games with this degree of originality released 
 in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwells
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 8, 2005 11:22 am PT
Review:  The story-line and characters in Indigo Prophesy are interesting and likeable. There are three 
 main characters, two police types and one protagonist type. This would have been nice in a longer 
 game, but in a game as short as this one there was just not enough time to develop all of these 
 characters properly. In particular, I thought the male police character got short shrift in terms 
 of development and player empathy. The plot also seems to have large portions missing. For example, 
 one minute we are hunting for a possible serial murderer, and then in the next scene we are confronted 
 with an end of the world scenario. This sort of shocking and unexplained phenomena is not given 
 enough development time in the story or in the game. Furthermore, the characters dont seem to 
 care all that much about this big change. The same lack of proper development occurs even with 
 the personal relationships between the main characters of the game. We go from lets chase the 
 bad guy to lets sleep and fall in love with the bad guy with zero explanation of how such a 
 turnabout could have happened. And yet I believe that in both cases we could have gotten from point 
 A to point B with a little more story and game development. I liked the beginning, and the end, 
 but sort of feel like some of the middle chapters of this tale were forgotten somewhere. That being 
 said, this is still the best adventure/action game that I have played in a long time.
  
  The atmosphere of the game is helped greatly by the game mechanics. Whereas Leisure Suit Larry 
 got the whole game mechanics totally wrong, Indigo Prophesy takes the same ideas and does a credible 
 and enjoyable job. I never felt the mechanics annoying (except when they were supposed to be, and 
 even then in a clever enough way that I enjoyed being annoyed) . I liked the way the game interaction 
 worked, and how the story often played itself out in the background while the player is forced 
 to concentrate on the playing of the game. This gave the game a real feel, and helps draw the player 
 into the game. I also liked the timing mechanism when choosing a reply in dialog trees. This little 
 bit of action livened up the usual drudgery of working through those sorts of trees in standard 
 adventure games. I even liked that you could not go back and ask the same questions over and over 
 again to the same people. And I liked that sometimes you would ask the right things, and other 
 times you would not. This was a better mirror of real life than you have in standard adventure 
 games.
  
  All in all, Indigo Prophesy is the best game I have played all year. Even if it doesnt rank up 
 there with Gothic or Grim Fandango, the mere fact that I can mention those games in the same breath 
 with this one says a lot for this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ontain
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 7, 2005 8:02 am PT
Review:  This was a wonderful game that played like an interactive movie. The actual gameplay effects how 
 the movie progresses but the controls really get you feeling like the character. It's refreshing 
 to see this type of game is a time where you mostly see FPS with this type of story.
  
  The story is a little x-files combined with matrix. It's a mystery and a good one. You'll need 
 to place yourself in the shoes of different characters (from the killer to the detectives in charge 
 of getting him) but that doesn't take away from the imersive feel. in fact it helps you piece together 
 the clues to find what's really happening.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabis
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 6, 2005 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Not muchof a challenge even on hard difficulty. not great for replay value untill you forget the 
 story and someday pull it out of your closet and want to remember what the game was about. it was 
 fun and imaginative. it has three different endings but arent completly different from one another 
 at about the mid point in the game there was what seemed to be no walking having to talk to people 
 or to do a certain task, such as hiding evidence. At the end of the game depending on what you did 
 you can get a battle against a guy and then an epic battle against a guy you have been fighting 
 for pretty much the whole game wich was awsome, or you could do the epic battle first and then the 
 battle against the other guy wich was still ok but not quite as good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waleedessam
Rating: 5.7
Date: Nov 4, 2005 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Well, maybe i am growing old or something, but being a gamer for almost 17 years now (i am 23) 
 made me really sick of games that is all about clicking buttons fast. I know few people who can 
 finish games i finished on difficulty levels i usually play, and for me i prefer games that relies 
 on thinking, precises shooting, strategic thinking, fast reflexes, i don't really appreciate games 
 like indigo profecy where you have to click button fast as if i am a 10 yrs old playing a very 
 old video games or pin ball. To be honest the story is great, it is just so good that it made me 
 endure all the silly foolish childish gameplay just to know what will happen next. The game is 
 too short, finished in 2 days with about 4-5 hours playing a day. I just prefer old school adventure 
 games where you have to solve a puzzle or think, not just fast clicking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legumo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2005 4:42 am PT
Review:  I bought, played and finished (2 times) FAHRENHEIT (indigo Prophecy) and this is absolutely and 
 beyond any doubt, the best game ever made ... period!
  
  The controls are great, the sound is enchanting, the graphics are very good and the animations 
 are fantastic.... the story is to die for, this aint a joke.
  
  I am so amazed with this game that it became instantly the best game ever made for me, i grew with 
 MONKEY ISLAND, LARRY, KING QUEST, LOOM, etc back in the 80's / 90's and this game ranks with the 
 very best if not better,
  i always ranked MONKEY ISLAND 1 as the best adventure game in the universe, but i can clearly say 
 INDIGO PROPHECY is the very best of all.
  
  If you didn't yet understand, i am worshipping this game and will be until the day i die, unless 
 there'll be a sequel and it's better, or something comes along and it's better (i doubt) , then 
 till then...... INDIGO PROPHECY = the best.
  
  there's no equal to this game.
  
  i beg you....... BUY IT!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benwng
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 4, 2005 4:32 am PT
Review:  Indigo Prophecy is very unique being the first kind of game to give players a cinematic approach 
 of following an intriguing story line. The game is fairly easy and quick to pick up however the 
 first time round your likely to miss alot of the small hidden scenes which you would get to see 
 if you found all the clues. What ever option you chose the game only alters minutely and will follow 
 a central storyline. The action scene where you have to tap keys in the correct order is also fun 
 but it can be frustrating as if you don't do it fast enough and in the correct order then you will 
 simply not get to see any of the additional clips which add density to the storyline. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtochld11
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 2, 2005 6:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is like nothing I have ever played before. The story is incredibly deep and understandable. 
 Normally when you play a game with a deep story, you forget some characters and what is going on 
 if you dont play it for a while. But with this game that never happened. Every character is very 
 well defined and you can get a great sense of what they are going through. The first three hours 
 of the game I couldnt put my controller down. It has so many twists and turns and the adventure-esq 
 gameplay is cool. I liked going to crime scenes to find clues to figure stuff out. The fact that 
 you can take any path by picking a character to play is really original too. I also liked how there 
 are alternate endings based on how you play the game.
  There were only a couple weak points that bothered me; first the sequences that require you to 
 do the 'Simon Says' type gameplay get tired fast and can be quite difficult. Secondly, after I 
 loaded a game after I quit I would have no lives left; so whenever I had one of those 'simon says' 
 sequences, I had to do the whole thing perfectly without losing a life. There is also a point where 
 you control the dialog the same way, and if you do it right, you lose life and raise suspicion, 
 but if you do it wrong, you dont lose life or suspicion -- that seemed like a glitch to me. Some 
 of the childhood flashbacks seemed to take me out of the main story and I lost interest with them, 
 but I can see why they felt they were important. The game is short, but not too shore, and it has 
 a high replay value.
  Overall the strong points of this game are the story, adventure style gameplay and graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kokoko
Rating: 5.1
Date: Nov 2, 2005 3:50 pm PT
Review:  It started out interestingly but it turned to be boring and uninspired. Probably targeted to young 
 console players. You actually don't have any choice in the game. The story is linear and the only 
 choices you can make make a little difference, except for the last chapter. The whole game gives 
 the impression of watching a movie while having to press some key combinations to keep the movie 
 playing. As a movie, it is a bit interesting at the start, but very early in the game I got bored; 
 during the last chapters the story evolved in a really uninspired way. It is not an adventure, 
 there is just one riddle to solve (and this is frustrating as while searching you must also press 
 button combinations to avoid dying) , it is not an action game, it is nothing.. the mood meter -sims 
 like- is an interesting touch but I really didn't understand what it was there for... I really 
 don't recommend it, it 's just different, not good. The music was good though, especially the funky 
 and R&B tracks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikehet0915
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 1, 2005 6:48 pm PT
Review:  I must say that Fahrenheit (or Indigo Prophecy) is a great game. You may be slightly annoyed or 
 confused during the first 15-30 minutes, but give the game some time, it will grow on you. This 
 game probably has the best story of the year.
  Gameplay - I think it is possible to play this game with a mouse/keyboard, but I used a controller. 
 It feels like a console game. You may think that the whole "Simon Says" mini-game parts are slightly 
 stupid, but for some reason, I started to accept them towards the end of the game. The only major 
 complaint I have about this game is the camera, because I felt as though I kept running in the 
 wrong direction after the angle changed. This can get really annoying during parts which require 
 you to get/do something in a certain amount of time.
  Graphics - These graphics look like they are from a three year old game. After playing FEAR and 
 Quake 4, it was quite strange to see Hitman: Silent Assassin-like graphics. They aren't horrible, 
 but I fely that the makers could have done much better.
  Sound - Probably the best acting I've seen/heard in a game. The characters really seem to have 
 their own life and personality, which keeps you playing till the end. The music in the game is 
 perfect, I liked every song (including the ones that Lucas can play on the guitar) .
  Value - I would have given this a ten, since there are so many endings, but you can pretty much 
 play the last level differently 3 times and see all the main endings. The game is really short, 
 but you will remember the story/concept for a long time.
  Tilt - With a story like the one that this game has, it is very hard not to recommend it. It is 
 a very easy game that does not require a lot of past gaming experience. I believe that in this 
 case it is a good thing, since everyone is interested in playing a game with a great story. If 
 you have the urge to "play a movie", then this game should be the first one you turn to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CHAMPANERIA
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 1, 2005 6:44 pm PT
Review:  The creator of this game really knew what he wanted and everything since its so epic taking things 
 from matrix, some gameplay elements from shemue2 cutscenes were you intract during cutscenes to 
 do things differen't theres differen't endings and again theres moments that your never forget 
 since there so good... really do there be parts were something happens and your jaw will drop and 
 your just be WOW like omg that did not just happen and during all this cutscene action you have 
 to press buttons to keep up with whats going on its pretty amazing... you play a killer Lucas Kane 
 that trys to prove he didn't kill someone, you play 2 detactives a guy and girl that try to track 
 down this guy... so your covering up what you did in the starting... and busting your selff at the 
 same time its really sweet how things go down in this game again its EPIC...
  
  Gameplay: Its differen't in a good way... its a must play to experience and I swear chances are 
 your gonna love it...
  
  Graphics: Ok not the sharpest graphics but I will say its better then I thought so thats always 
 good... little touch ups everywere would of done this game better for example I notice little things 
 like the charaters didn't have fingure nails but still its looks great the game has its graphics 
 which fit it its a solid 8...
  
  Sound: From voice action to the music... to the amazing action music you take place in man does 
 it ever kick it up... couldn't be better its epic if anything its one of the best ever from music 
 choice to the voices and everything its great... I even got tracks from this game since they were 
 so great...
  
  Value: It's one of those games everyone should play... its differen't in a good way something that 
 maybe more games should do but no game will do it great as this game till it does then it will 
 only get a higher score but this is pretty close to just perfect how it all done...
  
  Reviewrs Tilt: Its differen't from your usall shooter, rpg, fighting or racing game its something 
 everyone should play and try its differen't even tho it took some unique stuff from the shemue 
 series it used it well how using up down left right during cutscenes to interact also tapping left 
 arrow and right arrow fast to run faster in cutscenes ect... its really neat and done good that 
 no other game could evendo this good... your love it... like everyones elses review they all seem 
 to...
  
  +epic parts not 1 not 2 many parts will make you drop dead just how good they are if you enjoy 
 matrix... your in for it.
  +story line is really good but near the last 30% of the game you might go WTF.
  -graphics arn't 
 strong but there not bad at all... inless graphics mean have to dey best then you won't like this 
 one I guess but your be missing out.
  +music great top notch.
  -playin as like 3+ differen't charaters in one game might take away from playing the main guy for 
 example I always just couldn't wait to play Lucas Kane again the main guy cuz the stuff that happened 
 to him was sweet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slurpionking
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2005 6:53 am PT
Review:  This game Is by far one of the best games i have played In a long time. Indigo Prophecy Is one of 
 those few games that comes along once In a while that jumps out and makes you think "now this how 
 games should be made" Indigo Prophecy does that extremely well. First off the graphics, the stuff 
 you will looking at for at least 10+ hours, the game completely delivers In this respect. The characters 
 are done very well and enviroments are some the best yet. Next up the sound department this cinematic 
 area will keep the game from getting to be too dramatic sometimes and will literally scare the 
 crap out of you at some points. Thirdly the gameplay department. For those of you out there who have 
 played the game series by Yu Suzuki called Shenmue you may recognize some of the gameplay elements 
 In IP which Is a wost welcome addition. Overall this game Is one of the best I have ever played. In 
 a gaming Industry where It seems all gamers are Interested In Is shooting hookers and stealing 
 cars Indigo Prophecy delivers with a good story that can't be missed. I would recommend this game 
 to anyone which Is why I give Indigo Prophecy for the Xbox a 10 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LonnieMitchell
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 25, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  This game is a new take on an older, but very much so underdeveloped concept. It takes off on the 
 shoulders of games such as the Tex Murphy series which were basically an interactive movie idea. 
 In fact, when starting a new game with Indigo Prophecy you don't select "New Game", you select 
 "New Movie". This game was one which from the Demo I was both interested, and afraid of what I 
 would find. The demo seemed so limited that I was concerned I would not find a game worth playing 
 once I got into it. However, the game has turned out to be quite interesting. It's more interactive 
 and less direct character control than most other games. However, it is worth checking out. The 
 story is intersting, and allows you to play from the view points of both the hunter and the hunted, 
 at least as far as the police/suspect relationship goes. You engage in a quest to discover things 
 which are beyond the characters ordinary imagination, and in the process you take on a few twists 
 and turns. I enjoyed the game, but I don't know that it's one I would personnaly buy. I rented 
 it yesterday for less than $10 and finished it today. It took under 10 hours to beat. I think it 
 is definitely worth the rent, but due to the lack of original replay value I would probably not 
 justify it's cost if purchased new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shonkisdead
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 30, 2005 4:32 am PT
Review:  The game is so unique in its gameplay that no one can ever even think about it until and unless 
 he/she plays it himself/herself ! The graphics are cool the music is mind blowing ! the thrill 
 wont let you leave your seat once you start playing and most of all you must be strong enough to 
 absorb sudden shocks given to you by the fascinating changing story ! you want to eanjoy ? this 
 is a super must game for you to play ! iam a gamer since 10 years now ... but i have to admit that 
 this game has unique parts no other game to date has ! so what do you think ? your going for it 
 right ? YOU WONT REGRET IF YOU GO FOR IT :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C0deZer0
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 29, 2005 5:09 pm PT
Review:  In a world where the normal game is the FPS or the RTS, there is the one gem that comes out and 
 is totally original. Indigo Prophecy is that original gem that has come out to bless us from the 
 constant frag fests that are FPS. Indigo Prophecy is a rare adventure game that has come out for 
 the PC and XBOX, and when Quantic Dream says it's cinematic, they aren't lying. In the game you 
 control 3 diff rent people, with three diffrent backgrounds. You will play as Carla Valenti and 
 Tyler Miles, both detectives and partners trying to solve a rather bizarre murder. Then you play 
 as Lucas Kane, just an average guy who has a nice cushy IT job at the local bank, just one problem... 
 He has committed a murder, the same murder that both Carla and Tyler are trying to solve. Lucas 
 has no idea why he has killed this man, and was not in control of himself, so Lucas is also trying 
 to find answers while doing his best to avoid capture from the police.
  
  When you start the game, you are playing as Lucas after murdering the poor sap we like to call 
 a victim. You now have choices to make, and here is where you are introduced to the first aspects 
 of the gameplay. You can take control of the character you currently have control of, and move 
 them around a crime scene, or an apartment, etc. You are able to investigate things by walking 
 to them and seeing a icon pop up at the top of the screen. In order to activate that item you will 
 have to use your mouse like for instance if you are climbing a fence, you will drag the mouse to 
 the left, then move it in a hook fashion upwards. A little awkward to get used to at first, but 
 it doesn't take long to get used to. The next portion of control comes to a simple mashing of the 
 left and right arrows... When there is something going on in the game where strength is needed 
 such as swimming, or getting out of the grip of something, you will have to mash those buttons 
 to bring a meter up to get your character out of their situation. Then there is the last item for 
 controlling your character, the rhythm game. When there are moments of extreme action, you will 
 be introduced to a control scheme on screen which looks like to mini versions of the game Simon. 
 Any time the colors light up, you will have to push the arrows represented by the colors on screen. 
 While you would think that this takes you from the action of the game and puts your focus on more 
 of what you are doing, it's not true. The Simon pads are right in the middle of the screen and 
 transparent, so you don't miss anything.
  
  The graphics in this game even though a little dated, still give you a presentation that makes 
 it feel like a movie. One nice feature of the game is the fact that it will cut to split screens 
 when something else in the game is happening, almost like the show 24. Like for instance, while 
 Lucas is trying to cover his tracks and hid the murder victim at the beginning of the game, if 
 you are taking too long, the screen will split to an officer in the Diner you are in getting up 
 and walking tward the bathroom. It really adds to the tension that mounts during the game.
  
  The sound in the game is phenomenal! The voice actors really hit the mark even though some 
 lines can get rather cheesy. The guy who plays Lucas really gives a rather impressive performance 
 that really makes Kane a believable character. music in the game is rather impressive as well. Simple 
 things from Carla and Tyler sparring in the gym to Lucas playing his guitar at his apartment really 
 has some nice tunes. The game mixes licensed music with scores made for the game very well. 
  
  After I had finished the game, I felt it necessary to go back and play it again. There are 
 so many choices you can make in it that does affect the plot, it is often times fun to go back 
 and see what will happen when you change your mind about something. Even though it doesn't change 
 the core plot much, it's still fun to see the outcome of something. Also going around and collecting 
 bonus cards will give you points outside of the game to unlock things such as photo galleries, 
 and some scenes from the game that can be fun to watch when you are bored. 
  
  All in all, Indigo Prophecy, even though is a game is really a lot better than a lot of movies 
 that have come out in recent days. You will actually care about the characters when you get close 
 to finishing the game, so it makes for an immerse game. If you are a gamer who wants a break from 
 the fast paced world of FPS, give this a try, you will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angry_machine
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 29, 2005 4:01 am PT
Review:  Great new concept, one of the best storyline.. felt it every second deep inside my heart-even while 
 i wasnt playin-i was thinking whats gonna happen next! The story line really hit me inside from 
 the starting till the end till the new executor's announcement-lucas's child!
  
  The characters gave me exact the feeling i was there.. the interactions were real good.
  
  Game 
 world is fantastic, real voice actings made me simply stare at them without a single break in my 
 attention! Pure sound and music!
  
  While i was playing the new concept of this game made me think i was really looking for somethin 
 different like this one.. i am sure this game brings a new concept after gta to the gamers!
  
  The camera controls was the only prob i had playing the stealth missions in army base... other 
 than that its ok!
  
  Thanks to atari for this amazing one..
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathtok
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 31, 2006 11:54 am PT
Review:  As an adventure game fan, things have been tough lately. The last installment of the Monkey Island 
 series to did not transisition to 3D well and the genre has been suffering from a lack of developers. 
 That being said, I was really excited when I read about this game.
  
  Indigo Prophecy did not disappointment. The game opens with you in a bathroom at a diner. There 
 is a dead body and you have no recollection of how you got there. Immediately your thrust into 
 some quick decisions as you realize that the police officer, who's been sitting at the counter 
 has to expel some of his late-night coffee.
  
  Decisions in this game are open-ended, often leaving you with a few ways out. Be creative. However, 
 the story with few variations will take the same path for everyone. During the cutscenes, Quantic 
 Dream kept you involved by inputting various button sequences. Like no other game before, I felt 
 like I was in control of a movie.
  
  Without spoiling it, I will say the story is compelling here. This is another game that begs for 
 a sequel and deserves one. I would recommended the European version, Fahrenheit to anyone that 
 can get it. The U. S. release had a few content cuts. Now, go and play this game! It is like nothing 
 I've played before and could very well re-invent the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dinamika
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 27, 2005 9:43 am PT
Review:  The term "cinematic gameplay" gets tossed around an awful lot these days. And it's often tossed 
 around by game makers who simply throw in a few letterboxed cutscenes and minimalist heads-up displays 
 and then call it a day. Developer Quantic Dream's Indigo Prophecy is a game that actually gives 
 cinematic gameplay some context, as well as some real heartfelt meaning. More movie with an interactive 
 progression than video game pretending to be a movie, Indigo Prophecy eschews practically any modern 
 gameplay convention in favor of a significantly more subtle mechanical interface. You take part 
 in every action in Indigo Prophecy -- from the biggest fight sequence, to the most minor of day-to-day 
 tasks -- and you do it all with simple movements of the analog sticks on your PC gamepad or with 
 some quick button presses that are more akin to a rhythm game than a typical third-person adventure. 
 But where Indigo Prophecy truly shines is in its story, which is a deep, captivating, and sometimes 
 disturbing tale of one average man's journey to solve a murder that he himself committed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jagr3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 24, 2005 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Fahrenheit AKA Indigo Prophecy is very hard to describe. It is a game that you really enjoy playing, 
 but when it's over you kind of feel cheated. The story is amazing. A series of murders committed 
 without any apparent motive by people who never knew their victims. First you get to player one 
 of these unlucky murderers, and then the two cops investigating the case. The killer Lucas Kane 
 tries to find out why he killed a total stranger, all the while evading the police and trying to 
 escape capture. The two detectives, Carla Valenti and Tyler Miles, search for clues that Kane tries 
 so desperately to hide.
  
  The gameplay is a combination of classical adventuring and a more modern action approach. However 
 there is no inventory, so no combos, no using of objects in other locations, no really advanced 
 puzzles. There are no really challenging problems in the game, most of are solved just by pressing 
 a key in the right location. The action part of the game is made up of subgames, most of which 
 show attractive moves while you try to press the right keys at the right time. If thing get to 
 hot for you and you can't follow, just hit all the possible keys as fast as you can. It works, 
 but it kind of feels like cheating.
  
  So know you're wondering what makes this game better than the last Leisure Suit Larry game. Well, 
 it's kind of a general feeling of greatness. The story of the game is way beyond your average game 
 story. The characters are lifelike, with a past and a personality, they have relationships and 
 a center. Lukas is marked by the events of his past, Carla lives for the job and Miles even gets 
 to choose between the love for his girlfriend or trying to do good as a cop. While they fight for 
 their lives or try to do their job, they also get to do the normal things that are not usually 
 present in games and go a long way to give live to the characters. The button mashing part of the 
 game is also above average. If you succeed in pressing the right keys you are rewarded by Matrix 
 style fights, daring escapes, a basketball game, and even uncover a few clues. The story does go 
 too fast in the last chapter, but the overall impression is amazing.
  
  So this is a very short game, half button mashing, half a very easy classic adventure game, with 
 a fantastic game world, story and characters. Great fun while you play but when it's over you may 
 be a little disappointed. A good game for someone who is a casual gamer or someone who does not 
 play a lot of adventure games. Hard core adventurers may be persuaded by the finer points of the 
 game, but some may not like it.
  
  Even though I think it's mostly glitter, I really had fun playing it. Worth a try.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabrielgao
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 24, 2005 8:01 am PT
Review:  Review em portugus do Brasil :
  
  Indigo Prophecy  um jogo que ate hoje no se existe um igual , ou seja , um jogo unico .
  
 
  O porque ? Simplesmente porque ele  leve , dramatico , bem feito , ou seja , simplesmente perfeito
 
  
  O unico defeito so os controles mas nada que um ajuste nas configuraes fassa ele ficar perfeito 
 .
  
  Um exemplo da cena do jogo :Voc matou uma pessoa e tem que limpar o sangue , lavar as mos 
 , esconder o corpo e ainda andar normalmente para no ficar suspeito "
  
  Compre esse jogo , juro por Deus que voc no se arrependera ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zyndrex90
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 23, 2005 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Tyhis is a good game, very peculiar, since you dont find many games like it. To describe the game 
 is kind of hard, but its like a KOTOR, without the huge battles and DND rules, making it all just 
 about character development. This game has so many options its amazing, its gameplay is fantastic.
 
  
  The game is fairly easy to learn, there isn't much to it. push buttons as they are displayed and 
 select what you want to do. The psicological state of mind is good too, but if there were more, 
 or even less actions depending on your state it would have been fantabuistic. Graphics are average, 
 and same thing with sound. The story thoroughout the game is very interesting, and you learn some 
 mythoplogy in it. The weakest point in the game would be the intereactions and the lack of focus 
 on the game, but other than that i give this one thumb up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyanyako
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 23, 2005 7:44 pm PT
Review:  At first, I wasn't too sure on whether to buy this game or not because I don't know whether it's 
 in first or third person. Well, I bought it anyway. And I don't have any regrets.
  
  The graphics and the sound are superb. Very well-mixed and it really puts you in the scene as if 
 you're the one there. The characters are so diverse and I just love them. The action sequences 
 are great too. And I really find the bonus materials very entertaining.
  
  Although there are a few things that I did not quite like. First is the mixing of different elements 
 (hey! no offense!) like at one point you're just concentrated on proving that you're innocent. 
 Then it comes to a point where it becomes more like the movie "Bless The Child." Only to find out 
 it's going to be like "The Day After Tomorrow." Not to mention that there are a few elements of 
 "The Matrix" and "Dragonball Z" there.
  
  Next is the length of the game. I find it short, and admittingly, I want more. :D
  
  Finally, 
 I wish there was a bit more variety other than having to move the mouse in the proper direction, 
 or having to press the right buttons at the right moment. Sometimes it does get boring to do them 
 again and again.
  
  Still, I really think that Fahrenheit is very entertaining, innovative, and it definitely is worth 
 your time. A big round of applause to David Cage and all the people working at Quantic Dream. As 
 David Cage said, "Interactivity is still at its infancy." And I think Quantic Dream is off at a 
 very good start.
  
  And, as I said, I've had no regrets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tartagliam
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 23, 2005 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Well, my third review. How did this one turn out? Let's hit the ratings:
  
  Gameplay (out of 10) :: 7
  Story (out of 10) :: 9
  Graphics (out of 5) :: 3
  Multiplayer 
 (out of 5) :: N/A
  
  Well, let me start out by saying that this game was pretty damn fun. Why you might ask? Because 
 the story was awesome and put together really well. The story was unique, and in a workd where 
 sooooo many stories are similar (even the same) this game rises above the rest. But then, why 9 
 out of 10 instead of 10 out of 10? Because of the premise. SUPPOSEDLY, your actions throughout 
 the game determine the ending, when in reality it is just a few key choices in the last 30 minutes 
 of the game that determine the ending. But much like Deus Ex, the story was original and very, 
 very creative.
  
  Now onto why this game kinda fell on it's face: the gameplay. Here, the controls kinda brought 
 the overall game down. For the PC, the controls sucked. You quickly have to get rid of the idea 
 of using the mouse the entire time and have to get used to button pushing to solve puzzles. The 
 game has "tap back and forth like a gerbil with a seizure" gameplay (where you hit 2 buttons interchangingly 
 really, really fast) , "do what Simon says or die" gameplay (where you have to press what button 
 it says) and "choose your dialogue wisely or kill yourself" gameplay (which can be taken literally) . 
 These constant puzzles, which determine every, and I mean every action in the game, get really 
 boring and even makes you think you have Carpal tunnel in the end.
  
  The graphics, albeit not the worst, were also not the best. The engine was an old one, but may 
 be good since it runs on almost any machine. Really, I have no beef with bad graphics as long as 
 the story is good, which in this case it is.
  
  Overall, this game was pretty good. And since it came out with a $40 tag, it made it even better. 
 
  
  End grade: A- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 23, 2005 2:15 pm PT
Review:  One had to applaud the game designers for making this game and it isn't at all a bad game. It tells 
 a story fairly well. It succeeds generally well with the voice-acting, The graphics aren't high-polygon 
 but they are indeed cinematic. There some nice attention to details in the graphics even if the 
 graphic engine is a little behind the times. The facial expressions are often dead-on realistic.
 
  
  However, like others, I got annoyed with the mini-games that have you clicking on keyboard keys 
 in a timed sequence. Really if you can stand that and you like adventure games, then this game 
 is worth trying. All others should check out the demo first before you buy.
  
  Because the game dares to be different and it almost succeeds, I have to give it a better score 
 than I might have otherwise.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: paterico
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 23, 2005 12:42 pm PT
Review:  It is the best games that i ever seen. It is the best games that i ever seen. It is the best games 
 that i ever seen. It is the best games that i ever seen. It is the best games that i ever seen. It 
 is the best games that i ever seen. It is the best games that i ever seen. It is the best games that 
 i ever seen. It is the best games that i ever seen. It is the best games that i ever seen. It is the 
 best games that i ever seen. It is the best games that i ever seen. It is the best games that i ever 
 seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zsciaeount
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 22, 2005 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Adventure gaming has been in desperate need of a revival in the United States since the glut of 
 Myst clones in the late 1990s that steered the genre into the ground. While we have seen some 
 decent adventures over the past few years, such as Runaway and The Longest Journey, Indigo Prophecy 
 just may be the kick in the pants adventure gamers have been asking for.
  
  Though its certainly not perfect, Indigo Prophecy manages to tell an extremely engrossing story 
 that is tightly woven into the gameplay itself, and in doing so creates one of the most hauntingly 
 cinematic game experiences in recent memory.
  
  It should be stated right off the bat that this review is actually based upon the UK import PC-DVD 
 version, which is actually entitled Fahrenheit. The title was most likely changed to avoid any 
 connotations of a certain Michael Moore film, but to be honest, it seems odd that a game that shows 
 temperatures in Celsius would be entitled Fahrenheit in the first place. But, the changes go beyond 
 mere nomenclature: in the wake of the Hot Coffee scandal, Atari decided to censor the US version, 
 removing some of the more suggestive (and sometimes graphic) scenes. Importing the UK version was 
 a gesture of protest for this reviewer, who believes that games that are made specifically for 
 adults (such as this one) should be permitted to include all the material that was intended by 
 the games creators. Certainly, a game that begins with the graphic slaughter of an innocent human 
 being cant be made any more adult by the inclusion of a PG-13 rated sex scene, but alas
  
  In any event, Fahrenheit is a rather unique gameplay experience, one which attempts to meld 
 gameplay and story together into one seamless experience that keeps you in the game. The story 
 begins on a cold a snowy night. An innocent man is relieving himself in the bathroom of a diner, 
 when without warning or provocation, he is viciously attacked and murdered by the games protagonist, 
 Lucas Kane.
  
  Before this fateful night, Lucas was just an ordinary guy living in New York, a mild-mannered IT 
 expert working for a large bank. But, a strange visitor with dubious motives transforms him into 
 an unwitting accessory in a brutal murder. While it would be inappropriate to say more, suffice 
 it to say that as you spend the rest of the game trying to evade the authorities and learn the 
 truth, the story will grow deeper and more complex.
  
  The story is made even more deep by the fact that you will play the game as multiple characters 
 whose lives are playing out simultaneously in the game world, and whose paths intersect multiple 
 times over the course of the story. Interestingly, while you are trying to steer Lucas away from 
 the police, you are also playing the role of the two detectives who are determined to find their 
 man. This decision really helps to ratchet up the intensity of the story, and combined with the 
 generally excellent dialogue, the game creates the illusion of a truly dynamic story. This is further 
 augmented by excellent cinematography and some of the best dialogue written for a serious adventure 
 game.
  
  The gameplay employs a sparse, but effective control system that manages to feel active without 
 becoming too obtrusive. Console players will use the dual analog controls; the PC defaults to a 
 mouse and keyboard control scheme, but this scheme is clunky at best. In order to enjoy Fahrenheit 
 completely, you will need a dual-analog gamepad with at least 10 buttons.
  
  Aside from guiding your character with the left analog stick, there are a number of different actions 
 you can perform using the motions of the right analog stick when you reach a hotspot. For instance, 
 while sitting at your desk, you can flick the stick left to check a drawer, down to use your computer, 
 and right to turn on your lamp. Most of the time, the directions make sense in that they correspond 
 with the location of the object, or when more complex circular movements mimic body motion; but 
 other times, these distinctions seem arbitrary. Nonetheless, the right analog controls are efficient 
 and novel.
  
  Some of the other action controls are a bit more obtrusive. Some sequences, mostly ones that involve 
 the character to exert steady strength, will require you to rapidly alternate the shoulder buttons 
 to build up a meter and keep it full. Other times, the shoulder buttons will be used to keep a 
 person breathing steadily or help them keep their balance. It is in this latter situation that 
 the tension in some scenes is palpably heightened.
  
  Perhaps the weakestand unfortunately, the most prevalentgameplay mechanic is the dual-analog 
 match game that is like Simon meets Dance Dance Revolution. These scenes require you to move the 
 analog sticks in time to the on-screen prompts. During conversations, fights, and chases, these 
 sequences are done time and time again. Unfortunately, they start to get very repetitive and very 
 tiresome, not to mention the fact that theyre so obtrusive that you really cant take time to 
 notice whats happening with the on-screen action. More streamlined Shenmue (or Resident Evil 4) 
 controls would have made these sequences much less distracting.
  
  Fahrenheit has been criticized by others for its graphics, with many calling them lackluster. I 
 disagree. Though it doesnt feature the most complex or ornate graphics ever seen, the graphics 
 have the details in all the right places. The character models are decent, but they express a great 
 deal of emotive capabilities which, combined with the excellent mo-cap animation, makes for a hauntingly 
 human experience. The multi-angle split screen shots also add to the ambience, as do the blistering 
 snow effects that are almost suffocating in their splendor. The graphics wont win awards, but 
 theyre just right for the game. The only complaint is that the PC has no support for widescreen 
 monitors.
  
  The sound is perhaps the games strongest asset. The voice work is uniformly superb, and the sounds 
 of the howling winds are enough to make your skin crawl. But, its the haunting score by Angelo 
 Badalamenti (of Twin Peaks fame) that really imparts a sense of hopeless desperation and painful 
 solitude to the protagonists quest. In short, its one of the best original scores since Appeals 
 1999 masterpiece Outcast.
  
  But, the same cannot be said for the licensed soundtrack. While its great to hear some classic 
 funk tunes, the manner in which theyre employed just strikes the wrong tone, namely in that they 
 are used as bed music when the black character is out and about, harkening back to the Blaxploitation 
 era of the early 1970s.
  
  Fahrenheit is not without other problems as well. Aside from the tedious DDR/Simon sequences, the 
 game suffers from some control problems when the camera switches angles. Sometimes the movement 
 scheme will shift with the camera, and sometimes it wont, requiring you to let off the left stick 
 and reconnoiter. Also, sometimes the dialogue choices, which are keyword-based, dont lead down 
 the path you may have imagined, which can sometimes profoundly affect the story later down the 
 road. Furthermore, the sneaking missions prove that some tasks are better left for Solid Snake.
 
  
  Perhaps the most troubling thing about Fahrenheit is that while it features a wholly engrossing 
 story, there are a few craters in the story. The game starts off by keeping everything tidy, even 
 at the expense of allowing the story to stagnate now and then, but later in the game, a huge leap 
 is made in the story, without ever even hinting at the involved characters development of their 
 new understanding of the games events. Also, there are repeated scenes early on featuring terrifying 
 visions of predatory bugs that are never really explained. All of this culminates in an ending 
 that seems rather abrupt. It just feels like the game is missing about 1/3 of its content.
  
  Fahrenheit is easy, so much so that the idea of extra lives in the game is somewhat laughable 
 in retrospect. Combine the ease with a relatively short length for an adventure, and you may find 
 that Fahrenheit ends way too soon. But, while the game is definitely flawed, Fahrenheit manages 
 to create some truly touching and captivating gameplay moments, and it does so in a novel way, 
 and therefore it is not hard to recommend to adventure fans.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: balnso
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 22, 2005 9:00 am PT
Review:  the ganeis really fantastic i really was dreaming of something like it thanks to everyone participate 
 in its development i hope we see more games like it or even better as i really consider this game 
 revolution in games world. when i first play it i was amazed of the number of options i have and 
 every option leads to different storyline and many differnent endings i think this game really 
 deserve to be played and i didnt regret that .i enjoyed palying it so much . it made me feels like 
 iam lucas kane one of the playable characters my thinking was as if i were him and i think no many 
 games affect one like that so i consider it revolutionary 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A-S_FM
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 21, 2005 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Films and games are probably best described as cousins who see each other occasionally, but don't 
 really like eachother, and generally try to avoid being seen in the same room together. But increasingly, 
 games are becoming more and more like films. Games like Half life and Metal Gear Solid have pushed 
 the bar in terms of cinematic experiences in games, but 'interactive films' have long been a dead 
 duck in the gaming industry. There's been a few attempts here and there but they've pretty much 
 all been flops. Until now. Fahrenheit is trying to change the way people view films and games alike. 
 Will it? No, of course not, but it's nevertheless a good step in an entirely unfamiliar direction.
 
  
  The game starts in a caf toilet with a random innocent man being violently murdered by another 
 random man (you) . You fall into some kind of weird trance and watch yourself kill this guy, not 
 in control of your actions. Some mere puppet. You 'awake' to find the man dead, the knife in your 
 hands. You have to act. Quickly. There's a cop outside eating, and nature's about to call. Hide 
 the body, clean the blood, get rid of the knife. Or don't - it's your call, and although there 
 are limits, you can do or not do a lot of things which alter the game in a significant way. It 
 would be a little pretentious to say no two games would ever be alike, or something like that, 
 but to be honest it's not far from the truth. I won't divulge anything about the central plot except 
 to say that while it's relatively straightforward compared with what you might find in a book or 
 a film, it carries the game well and is pretty interesting.
  
  There are two major elements to the gameplay, which I shall tentatively name freeform and traintrack 
 gameplay. The freeform sections see you exploring the impressively detailed (yet extremely limited) 
 environments, ranging from the caf to the murderer's apartment to the police station. Things like 
 this. Here you can interact with characters and the environment using a simple mouse or control 
 pad system where moving the mouse or analogue stick in a direction corresponding to a certain actions, 
 such as sit down, take a swig of wine, hide the mutilated corpse, usual things. The traintrack 
 moments are scripted scenes, such as an escape from the police that, while running along a traintrack 
 so to speak in that they are linear and you don't really have control, you do still have a sense 
 of being involved in the game as there is an interesting mechanic where two sets of lights flash 
 on the screen and you have to quickly press corresponding buttons on your keyboard or push the 
 analogue sticks in the right direction. Get it right and your character will do something good 
 like dodge a car, or you might be able to hear their thoughts during a conversation, get it wrong 
 and you might find yourself flat on your back. There is also a vigorous effort system in the game 
 which plays out in a similar way, you have to tap left and right on keyboard or joystick quickly 
 to perform whatever action you're doing, like for example hanging out of a building. It's all very 
 simple, but it makes the player involved directly in the action, and works pretty well.
  
  You control a few characters throughout the game, Lucas - the murderer, his brother - a priest, 
 and two cops who are trying to find him. This means you are both the cat and the mouse which I 
 found really interesting as you're literally competing with yourself as the plot goes on.
  
  Visually the game is solid at console standards - comparable to some of the best the consoles, 
 the PS2 at least, has to offer - it really is quite good looking, yet sorely lacking at pc standards, 
 it looks like something from 2 years ago - but it still looks fine on all machines. The ps2 version 
 suffers some dubious framerates at times, but it's not enough of an issue to complain about, in 
 no small part due to the fact that the gameplay itself is so slow paced, I suspect. The sound quality 
 is fine, but nothing special, the voice acting is solid and the score is pleasant enough but not 
 particularly memorable.
  
  The developers tried to add an emotional characterisation type thing to the proceedings, but frankly 
 it falls pretty flat on account of the script being so poorly worded, the characters so two dimensional. 
 I often found myself thinking, 'wow, this is terrible!'. There's also a lot of frankly annoying 
 attempts at humour regarding the characters 'not being in a video game' and such. It's cheap and 
 cheesy and doesn't belong in something trying to be as important as it thinks it is. David Cage 
 is also perhaps the most pretentious game developer since Hideo Kojima (except Hideo has earned 
 it, David Cage certainly hasn't) . And it really sours the experience at times.
  
  If Fahrenheit was a live action film, it would be regarded as a very, very bad film. The dialogue 
 is mostly cheesy and the plot is, well, just terrible. And as a game - in the purest sense of the 
 term, it's not very good either. The gameplay is almost pointlessly shallow, yet combining the 
 two in the way that they have, it creates something so much more than the sum of its parts, and 
 although it's not without its flaws, it has a lot of charm and is an enjoyable and unique game 
 which has earned the right to be experienced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cqdemal
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 11:27 pm PT
Review:  How do you review a game that doesn't actually have a lot of gameplay in it?
  
  Quantic Dream's latest title Indigo Prophecy (aka Fahrenheit in Europe) is that kind of game, if 
 you could call it that. In my opinion, the most vital aspect of video games is interactivity, and 
 an 'interactive drama' such as this obviously won't give gamers a lot of freedom in the game world.
 
  
  However, Indigo Prophecy should not be judged on the same standards as other games. This is because 
 this game is one of a kind: an interactive movie. Others may argue that full FMV games of the past 
 also count as interactive movies, but I disagree, as those titles are still very much 'gamey' and 
 only employ full motion video sequences to distract the players.
  
  Back to the topic at hand. Indigo Prophecy tells the story of Lucas Kane, a guy who just stabbed 
 a complete stranger to death in a New York diner amidst the worst blizzard ever recorded in history. 
 The twist is you not only get to control the hunted, but also the hunters: Inspectors Carla Valenti 
 and Tyler Miles of NYPD. What you do in one 'scene' decides what happens in the next. The game 
 offers a myriad of things to do in the environment, and also implements simple timed dialogue trees 
 for wordy scenes.
  
  Groundbreaking, eh?
  
  Unfortunately, the game's illusion of freedom and choices doesn't stand up to scrutiny. Most dialog 
 trees have no effect on the conversation; you only get to pick the order of the lines. Not every 
 object in the world can be manipulated, even though there are tons that can. The effects of your 
 actions can be felt, but barely, and often ultimately inconsequential. Plus, action sequences feature 
 Simon Says-style button-mashing minigames that feel ancient.
  
  Whoa, this must be a bad game.
  
  Wrong. As I said before, Indigo Prophecy doesn't deserve 
 to be judged as a game, but as an interactive movie. Thus, the 'gameplay' should be judged by its 
 effectiveness as a storytelling device. Indigo Prophecy passes this test with flying colors. The 
 minimalist gameplay gives way to total immersion in the story. Its illusion of freedom actually 
 fools players into thinking that their actions are really sending shockwaves throughout the game 
 world, even though everything's on rails.
  
  Of course, the story is top-notch. Well, at least the first 3/4 is. Indigo Prophecy is quite well-written, 
 and the pace, for the most part, is perfect. Unfortunately, director-writer David Cage had to throw 
 in some unnecessary nudity and silly Matrix-esque action sequences, and the late-game twists will 
 have you fuming as the more personal side of the game (the investigation, the relationships, the 
 suspense, etc.) gives way to a cliched we-must-save-the-world final stretch. Utterly ridiculous.
 
  
  The game's also lacking in terms of technology. While the voice acting and the music are among 
 the best ever in a game, the graphics are... on a different level. Characters look decent enough, 
 and the animations (motion-captured) are often flawless, but the environments are usually way below 
 par. Snowbound New York never looked this ugly.
  
  Another conflicting element of the game is its replay value. Since it works primarily as a movie, 
 there is not much replay value in it as most people wouldn't see a movie back-to-back-to-back... 
 You get the idea. However, Indigo Prophecy hooked me so badly in my first run-through that I immediately 
 threw myself back into the game for a second run right after the closing credits. It's still fun, 
 but when you see through the illusion of choices, it all comes down. The fact that all 3 endings 
 can be accessed just by changing outcomes of certain events in the final chapter also makes me 
 wonder why did the developers try so hard to create fake story choices throughout the game's 7-hour 
 story.
  
  That said, a movie that thrills me from start to finish deserves praise, and while movies are usually 
 just 2 hours long, Indigo Prophecy managed to be gripping and tense throughout its length. Overly 
 simple gameplay? Yeah. Ugly graphics? Right. No replay value? Almost. But play it anyway. This 
 is one of those games that open up a glimpse into the future of interactive entertainment.
  
  Oh well. Scratch that. This IS the future of interactive entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joewild
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 20, 2005 1:57 pm PT
Review:  I havn't played a game much like this before, so I found it a nice suprise to sit down and discover 
 a whole new experiance. Almost watching like a murder mistory on TV, see the game through multiple 
 views, as the game switches effortlessly between charicters. You decide the outcome, and your totally 
 in control. 
  
  Graphics not too bad, but main strong points are the gameplay and storyline.
  
  Nice, and original. 
 A must-buy for anyone looking for puzzles, with an added hint of action and horror. Not one to 
 get if your a total trigger happy freak though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paladin_basic
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 20, 2005 6:08 am PT
Review:  Indigo Prophecy was a game I hadn't heard about at all, but that I bought simply because a friend 
 of mine recommended it so highly, the words "Awesome storyline" especially caught my attention, 
 and indeed I. P. has a very engrosing storyline, one of the best I've seen in some time now!!
  
  In a nutshell, it's a story about a suspected serial killer and the man hunt behind it, but 
 the game itself is played from the viewpoint of both the killer and the police investigators, switching 
 between them as you complete each "level" (The game is split into many small levels or "sequences")
 
  
  There is even music from Theory of a Deadman, an up and coming group along the same lines as Nickelback, 
 and they're not bad at all!!
  
  Graphically, I've heard some say that the game isn't very impressive, but as an experienced gamer, 
 I'd say that the graphics were far better than in similar 3rd person games (I play the game using 
 a GeForce 6800 Ultra 256 Meg graphics card and it looks fine)
  
  The only down side is that some of the camera angles are terrible. You can adjust them to a certain 
 degree, but there are times when you're forced to look at your character from the strangest of 
 angles and it makes searching the environment awkward at times (It's played for the most part in 
 3rd person)
  
  To wrap the review up, I'd highly recommend the game, it's fun, it's engrossing, and it's well 
 worth spending your hard earned cash on 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ewwgurt
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2005 3:59 am PT
Review:  The story and concept seem a little vague and elusive at times. However, the game never the less 
 keeps you on your toes at all times. playing as all the characters is different in the sense that 
 you're constantly trying not to damn our poor posessed lead character. I thought the graphics were 
 quite nice, as the cutscene quality to gameplay greatly improved. The addition of the action reaction 
 sections where you try controlling a situation through partially syncronized keystrokes was a nice 
 break from the norm for me, as i prefer first person shooters. An overall great game experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 19, 2005 9:21 am PT
Review:  If youre like me, then you were pulled into the Adventure game genre because you liked the formula 
 of using your mind to solve puzzles and progress a great story. If youre like me, you quit the 
 genre because you got tired of recycled material, poorly designed illogical puzzles, annoying pixel 
 hunts, lame stories, and just downright boring gameplay. That is why Indigo Prophecy is such a 
 breath of fresh air. Its a great interactive story with some light puzzle and action elements. 
 Its too short and its not as open-ended as it purports to be, but it is still very entertaining 
 and it brings a lot of great new ideas to the table. This is my favorite adventure game since Sanitarium, 
 and that has been a long, long time. 
  
  What makes Indigo Prophecy so great is its story, and how it walks you through it, always gently 
 nudging you along the way but never grabbing you by the hair and dragging you through long, drawn-out 
 cut scenes. The game develops characters like a novel. Whats amazing is that it never gets boring 
 doing that. You will play as Lucas, strumming the guitar by himself or having an awkward encounter 
 with his ex girlfriend. You also play as Carla drinking a bottle of wine with her neighbor and 
 Tyler celebrating an anniversary with his girlfriend. You walk characters around their dwellings 
 and use your right analog stick to turn on the stereo or get a drink of milk out of the fridge. 
 You guide characters through conversations by choosing dialog options, and the game rewards or 
 penalizes you by changing your mood. These scenes help flesh out the characters and give the story 
 depth without acting as just a boring narrative. Its immersive, but never tedious. You truly sympathize 
 with Lucas and Carla as you flip back and forth between them and experience what the story has 
 to offer. Indigo Prophecy is one of those rare games that manages to stir your emotions and make 
 you feel sad for the characters or genuinely worried about their fate. 
  
  Indigo Prophecy joins the Thief series and Planescape: Torment in offering some of the creepiest 
 and most foreboding atmospheres of all time. Prophecy is a dark game that never quite leaves 
 you feeling happy or at ease. Even the ending isnt particulary cheery, as it leaves room for a 
 sequel. The games primary bad guy is excellent too. Hes one of the most charismatic villains 
 that I have ever seen in a game. 
  
  The game is very easy to pick up and play. The learning curve is nonexistent, and thats says a 
 lot for how well the interface is done. As you explore an environment, context-sensitive icons 
 at the top of the screen instruct you on how to move your right analog stick to interact with the 
 environment. You also use the analog stick to choose dialog options. You play action sequences 
 with a rhythm minigames or by button mashing. The game starts with a tutorial that is narrated 
 by one of the game developers, whose likeness is motion-captured on the screen for you. Its a 
 nice touch. 
  
  Indigo Prophecy is not the most advanced-looking game out there, but it still looks pretty good. 
 What it lacks in poly counts and hi-res textures, it makes up for with some terrific cinematics 
 and breath-taking motion capture sequences. Indigo Prophecy has some fighting sequences that were 
 clearly captured from martial arts experts. Overall, the presentation for this game is terrific. 
 The voice acting is pretty good on most of the characters and the games soundtrack enhances the 
 experience. There are about ten licensed songs in the game. There are also about five tracks from 
 an original score, which includes a rousing action theme that kicks in during the games most exciting 
 moments.
  
  Gameplay-wise, Indigo Prophecys uniqueness and simplicity also end up being its downfall in some 
 places. The rhythm mini-games that you play during action sequences seem like a copout. You will 
 get into fights and dodge traffic, but you will only do it by using your analog sticks to match 
 up with lights on the screen. Its a little bit like Dragons Lair  if you pass the sequence, 
 you see a positive result on screen, and if you fail, you see a negative result. Its kind of a 
 shallow and outdated formula. Its not as fun or as satisfying as controlling the character in 
 real time or fighting with a good fighting engine. The game relies more and more on these action 
 sequences, so by the end thats almost all that youre doing. The first half of the game feels 
 like an actual game, but the second half feels like an interactive movie. Its a darn good one, 
 but there will be times where you wish that there was more gameplay to it.
  
  Indigo Prophecy offers you lots of choices. Theoretically, every choice has a consequence. In practice, 
 however, these consequences are somewhat shallow, and the game follows the same generally linear 
 path regardless of what you do. However, the interactive storytelling in this game is still a big 
 step forward. For example, if you mop up the blood in the first scene, the cops wont notice it 
 there in later scenes. These types of details are nice touches. 
  
  Indigo Prophecy should take you no more than ten hours to finish. This is a bit of a disappointment, 
 since there was enough material here to make the story about 50% longer. The first 2/3 of the story 
 are paced somewhat slow, and the last 1/3 blows by like lightning. Lots of loose ends remain untied, 
 which keep the door wide open for a sequel. 
  
  Despite its gameplay flaws, Indigo Prophecy is an exciting and captivating adventure game with 
 a great story and great controls. More content, a better conclusion to the story, and less focus 
 on actiony minigames would have made it better. Those issues shouldnt keep you from playing this 
 game though. Its a breath of fresh air in a genre that badly needs one, and whether youre a die 
 hard adventure gamer or just a gamer looking for something different, youll probably like this 
 one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: freudlacan
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 18, 2005 3:01 pm PT
Review:  when your first play the tutorial you just think: this guy really thinks that by moving my mouse 
 im gonna feel that im opening a door?, but when you go deep into the game you discover that the 
 "Symon Says" interface is where you really ought the feel your in the game.
  
  The action sequences like "The storm" are the kind of stuff that your used to look in adventure 
 games cut scenes, but in this game for the first time you can feel that your there, doing those 
 fantastic "matrix" like moves.
  
  If you learn fast the "Symon Says" interface I assure you are going to get attached to this game, 
 cause youll like to make it "perfect", and maybe your gonna replay it a couple of times.
  
  Even if the designers could really make new paths to increase the re playability value, its 
 good like it is, and maybe they can improve it in the future.
  
  If you can afford this game, do it, its a good investment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacasgamespot
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 18, 2005 7:12 am PT
Review:  Ciekawa przygodwka jeli chodzi o realizacje. ledzimy akcje z perspektywy rnych 
 bohaterw co bardzo wzmaga emocje towarzyszce rozgrywce. Czsto dziki takim zabiegom 
 musimy si bardziej pieszy przy wykonywaniu pewnych czynnoci, a dodatkowo 
 wiemy co dzieje si w innych czciach lokacji w ktrej przebywamy. Rozgrywka nie 
 jest liniowa, czsto wykonujemy szereg czynnoci w dowolnej wybranej przez gracza kolejnoci. 
 Musimy pamita o wielu szczegach, a to eby idealnie uprztn 
 lady morderstwa, a innym razem poprostu zapaci rachunek w barze przed wyjciem. 
 Oprawa graficzna na bardzo wysokim poziomie, szczeglnie animacja postaci. Ich mimika i gestykulacja 
 dobrze oddaj klimat odgrywanej sceny. Cao utrzymana w klimacie delikatnej 
 grozy, gdzie bochaterowie majc swoje wasne problemy uwikani s mniej lub 
 bardziej w gwny wtek fabularny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-MASTER
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 17, 2005 3:47 pm PT
Review:  I'm not the type of person who like's adventure games, but this game is very special.
  It has a lot of element which makes you feel like you watching a thriller movie & even more...
 
  
  YOU FEEL LIKE YOU'RE PART OF THIS GAME !!!!!
  
  For example: you have a lot of parts in this game in which you have to do things quickly. If you 
 don't you lose & you have to start the checkpoint all over again...
  
  The soundtrack & the graphics give you a pure feelings of cinema.
  And the best thing in the 
 game is that you have so many ways to continue the story-line & no matter what you'll do it will 
 effect the conversetions & the story scence which will come later.
  And eventhough the game is not that long that's what gives him it's value.
  
  The only thing 
 I found bad in this game is the controls.
  It's recommanded to play with a gamepad.
  
  So that's all.
  I'll end up my review with 5 words...
  
  THIS GAME WORTH IT'S MONEY (and 
 even more) !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faceofear
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 17, 2005 1:00 pm PT
Review:  This game could be great as a role playing game or a standard adv. game. One thing I do not like 
 about several of the newer games is save points. I play games in the space between a myriad of 
 activities of the modern married parent. I know many can relate to this. I need to be able to save 
 a game when it is time to go. I also quit playing "simon" when I was a kid. My preference is shooters. 
 I play adventure games as a way to escape and unwind. I like to be able to retire to a dark room, 
 lean back in my great computer chair and kick my feet up with nothing but a mouse and some headphones 
 and solve some puzzles. I think you get the point. Cool game for the fighter croud I guess. Lame 
 review, but I needed to rant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_knight150
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 17, 2005 4:49 am PT
Review:  One of the funnest things in this game has to be it's intriging plot and charactor development. 
 Although graphically it's not a looker, it still has great gameplay and an excellent story line 
 to support it.
  First off, this is one of the greatest game's I've played that isn't all about shooting. Granted 
 it's more of an adventure, but I don't get around to play those often. Of course before I bought 
 the game I did my homework by looking at numerous reviews, but prior to that I knew it'd be an 
 awesome game. For anyone one that doesn't have a gamepad, get one cause I'm sure it'll make your 
 life a lot easier while playing. I don't actually know how it handles with a mouse and keyboard, 
 but I'm glad I didn't take a chance. The game is filled with events, especially the fight scenes, 
 which require some hand-eye coordination action, but depending on the current game difficulty it 
 shouldn't be that hard. I especially liked the Kane storyline, it has a ton of fight scenes and 
 interactive parts. The other portions of the game are led by detectives Carla Valenti and Taylor 
 Miles as they attempt to track down the killer from the beginning of the game. 
  It's kinda short, though it could appeart that way cause I have no life, especially during the 
 weekend. That's about my only complaint, so it's definitly worth a gander. Check it out by all 
 means, you'll really enjoy it (check into getting a gamepad if you don't have one already) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 16, 2005 6:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is simular to a choose your own adventure book. Just more in depth. You decide everything 
 that happens basicly. You play the game as a man who randomly kills another person and you try 
 to cover up the edvidence. Then you play as the cops who go through the murder scene where you 
 decided how to clean it up. 
  
  It has pretty fun action sequences like the CQC in "Shenmue" some of them dont seem to work on 
 higher difficulty levels though. The voice acting is good there were no subtitles though, (indigo 
 prophecy may have subtitles i played farenhieght) . 
  
  If your looking for something new and out of the box I suggest you rent the game. Once you beaten 
 it there isnt that much replay value, although you can decide different ways to play it out it's 
 pretty long to do it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BabySealClubber
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 16, 2005 7:08 am PT
Review:  Rarely do you hear much about cinematic games in this day of age, or in any day or age for that 
 matter. Occasionally you'll get a more storyline driven adventure game or a scary first person 
 shooter that gives your heart a workout. Yet, we haven't seen much for cinematic games in the past 
 decade, enter Indigo Prophecy. A cinematic game that lets you divert the plot points according 
 to your actions. This game is a somewhat unique experience and makes for interesting gameplay that 
 deviates from the status quo.
  
  However the story didn't seem to immerse me like I'd expect from a cinematic game. Yes, compared 
 to a typical game the storyline was very well done and interesting at times. Yet for something 
 thats very base is cinema, I didn't as much as I wanted. The plot seems eerie and interesting at 
 first, but eventually it will turn into a strange awkward tale filled with magical abilities and 
 unexplained plot points.
  
  As for the gameplay, well its a cinematic game so you can't expect much. You are able to control 
 up to four main characters in the game, one at a time. Minigames are played during actions sequences 
 that consist of you hitting arrow keys at the correct moments, I refuse to consider these anymore 
 than mini games. The minigames can be frustrating at times, especially when it consists of you 
 trying to hit two arrow keys at the correct moments. Some of these minigames are just inane, such 
 as trying to keep a claustrophobic person breathing correctly. Most of the minigames only require 
 you to understand what they're about and you'll be able to easily bypass them.
  
  When you're not playing these minigames you are in third-person view of your character. Camera 
 can be a pain with the third person view, but only just enough for you to notice it, you won't 
 be seething when trying to see something. This third person view consists of you walking your character 
 around and making them perform actions. Some of these actions are once again just inane, such as 
 getting someone ready for work in the morning. However alot of these free movement sequences can 
 be quite interesting, such as cleaning up the blood in a room before the cops get there.
  
  Graphics are a little dated but not enough for me to care atleast. Sound on the other hand is quite 
 well done. The music shows alot of work and the game even includes some songs from recent artists. 
 However these things are cosmetic and you'll pay little heed to them throughout the game.
  
  Overall a pretty good game, especially for a cinematic game. If you've never played a cinematic 
 game then this would be a good place to try it. Although you should definitely rent it first in 
 order to see if you like it. I do wish that the plot was stronger and that it drew you in more, 
 however for a video game the plot is very well done. Good but not great, this game was hard to 
 hate but I didn't love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tufak
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 15, 2005 10:43 am PT
Review:  Whassup with the adventure genre? Is it dead? No? So why am I so amazed with this game? It's revolutionary, 
 that's the word. I had enough playing so-called great actions with great graphics and weapons. 
 The matter was poor story and AI of a chicken. Adventures started to make a loop, too - discover 
 undiscovered, combine uncombinable. It was a matter of time for a revolutionary game to come. Authors 
 made a film-like, film-looking and, by the way, great adventure. Discover undiscovered, that's 
 adventure's motto, but mindless combining and looking for something has gone away. There are also 
 some action scenes so your fingers won't freeze. Many people don't like video-games because the 
 player kills - and in many ones without a reason. Except the beginning and the end there is no 
 way how to kill anyone.
  Now I'll explain you the story; your name is Lucas Kane (there are two more characters you'll play 
 with - Carla and Tyler, both of them are NY detectives) and you are a murderer. But you now you 
 weren't controlling yourself when commiting it - something forced you to do it. After the murder 
 you have to leave the crime scene - Doc's Dinner restaurant - and find out what really happenned. 
 It's not that simple how it looks, after the murder you have visions that something wants to kill 
 you - and if it will success, you'll find yourself with a knife in your eye.
  Game visuals are good, today's standard - that's because of Fahrenheit's port to PS2 and XBox. 
 But the characters' moves are just incredible. Quantic dream owns a Motion Capture studio and it 
 looks like they were sitting there very long. Lenght is not bad, too - about 15 hours for the first 
 time and then repeating the best chapters for a week :) . I'm very satisfied with my third game. 
 Fahrenheit / Indigo prophecy combines film-like storytelling with a bit of action and adventure. 
 Everything you do mirrors later and can change the rest of the game dramatically. There is no game 
 like this one on the world (yet) .
  There is a problem - action games (HL2) can have mods from fans. The adventure genre games can't 
 be longer because everything in them is unique. In an action game there are enemies and environment. 
 In this adventure game there is the main character, NPC (you can talk with them -  voices needed) , 
 special camera position (that needs an hour of sitting in front of a 3DMax and counting x, y, z) 
 and, of course, special story (not just enemies to shoot) and action sequences (there aren't many 
 people who have Motion Capture studio at home) , so mod-making is nearly impossible.
  I think you'll better buy Fahrenheit and play it. Believe me, you will be happy that you've made 
 the right decision. You'll stop breathing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mishtamesh
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 14, 2005 7:51 pm PT
Review:  The demo caught me by surprise, and had me think that this is a game of a new age. It is - especially 
 in the mind of its creator, who manage to get you all exited with the cinematic feel and effects, 
 even innovative for an actual movie with split screen and interesting choice of composition but 
 as you start letting yourself carried away there's also a feeling of a huge dissonance between 
 aspects of the game. you know ,when you meet a cool girl and you imagine her everything you'd ever 
 wished for, ignoring unimportant faults that eventually with time will overcome your fantasies. 
 same here. the unusual gameplay in which you use gestures with your controls seems unique and interesting 
 at first but then you understand that it's plane stupid to be challenged every time you want to 
 open a door, close a door, pick up, put down, sit down, stand up. this is it, that's the game. 
 this sets the difficulte most of the game until arrives a siqence of a "simon" like minigame, the 
 most annoying at times, that are so long so you will think: yeh, this game rocks, it's not about 
 making usless gestures at all.
  
  It is oviese that somebody invested a great deal of effort and money into this game, somebody tried 
 to realise his vision which is rare now days, but doing so he also tried to jump over his bellybutton 
 ,like they say where i'm from. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yinkang
Rating: 3.7
Date: Oct 14, 2005 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Grossly Overrated! The only thing superb is you get to play 3 characters. Game play is awful, esp. 
 the coloured 'simon says' so-called challenge, it take you away from the the action of the game. 
 So childish! Who created this game... Fisher Price?? Furthermore, some parts of 'simon says' has 
 no real bearing on the outcome of the game (e. g. boxing match and basketball game) . Graphics are 
 only OK, I have had better and I have played tons of adventure games! 
  
  One other thing, you can't save the game at your chosen point in the game, if you get arrested 
 or die, you have to start the chapter all over again. Lame!
  
  Save your money and buy another game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dynamo9093
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 13, 2005 9:25 pm PT
Review:  This is game is a classic for sure. The story is amazing and wouldnt have got a ten if not for the 
 cheesy graphics. They couldve made game better but it is VERY good the way it is. The story is similiar 
 to matrix :) orical, the one, yet is very different. Defentily worth the money and i had a GREAT 
 time playing it. also this game has got the best camera angles then anything u will play today. 
 u can do anythin with the angles from helicopter view to first person. another reason to buy this 
 great game. this game is different from the rest its like everything a game can be put in one . 
 I usually dont play these kinda games but after i saw this and my friend told me about it i went 
 out and bought it. one of the best things out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolf-5
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 13, 2005 1:07 pm PT
Review:  I started playing this game 6 days for the release date stated here on GameSpot, bought it at Best 
 Buy. Any ways, this games was a very welcome change from the other games. Actually livving the 
 little bits of the main characters lives was rather fun, especially when there are multiply ways 
 to handle a situation. Though XBox getts all the glory, I still point to the PC. Best graphics 
 and control, since I used my Xbox controller on my PC. Gamers should no better then to complain 
 about control on the PC when the game lets them use a controller... Must be your fault. 
  Bottom line is this game is deffinetly a must play. I was very impressed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p232
Rating: 7.1
Date: Oct 16, 2005 11:16 am PT
Review:  A god game, with a good story. But the meaning about this game, is that every choise may change 
 the story. But does it? I have played this game a while, and i can tell you that it acually don't 
 change the story, but it changes have fast you end the story. The story is the same, and the wrong 
 choise don't change the final story, exept that you may die faster. After a while you get really 
 sick of this game too, and i only came 30% before i was that sick that i diden't continued, and 
 deleted the game witout knowing have the story end, which acully dident matter for me longer.
 
  But if you really like the story, i think you will end the story - witout changing it
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LetItRegret
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 11, 2005 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Upon playing the demo of Indigo Prophecy I was amazed. I haven't seen a game like this for PS2, 
 either that or I just never payed attention. The story hooked me and didn't let me go until I was 
 done with it. The characters were interesting, humorous and you are able to connect with some.
 
  
  But even upon all that, and with 36 chapters, it is suprisingly short. 8 hours or so of non-stop 
 playing you'll be done and at the end it leaves you with a feeling of wanting more but with no 
 such luck at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rybry
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 11, 2005 4:24 am PT
Review:  This game got me hooked from the second i put it in, the first level dives you in to this huge 
 story involving you and a variety of other characters. The gameplay is very addicting an its a 
 new experiance for any gamer. You also have a sort of emotion bar that tells you how well of your 
 character is, in turms of depression. 
  Although the gameplay is stable, it lacks graphica quality, some tectures are streched way to much, 
 and at times characters can seem a little blocky. Also the sound has its problems. They have an 
 amazing score for the action sequences, but its horrible that they use it in every single one, 
 and theory of a dead man songs dont help thsi department out to much either.
  In the end the game holds itself together to make a movie like feel, the story keeps you glued, 
 there are some shaky and stupid relationship issues that should have been ironed out but other 
 then that its an excelent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edhc44
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 11, 2005 12:36 am PT
Review:  A bar restroom. A man is unexpectedly and brutally murdered by an average joe. Or is he?
  
  This joe in question is Lucas Kane and this is his story. Right after the somewhat shocking intro 
 cutscene, you take control over Lucas, who you'll soon find out, was posessed during the murder 
 and freaks out as soon as realise that he sliced someone he's never seem before to death. Right 
 from the get-go the player understands Indigo Prophecy feel. Get rid of evidences, rush out of 
 the bar and get home, only later to be inquired by a police office on your door, where all tasks 
 must be executed with diferent movements of the mouse, some trying to emulate the action itself 
 (for instance, when you mop the corpse's blood off the floor, you must slide the mouse up and down, 
 as if you were... well, mopping) . It's pretty different, that's for sure. And there's a good amount 
 of stuff to interact and actions to perform, so, in this case, not a bad thing at all.
  
  As far as gameplay goes, everyday tasks isn't the only thing diferent here. All the action scenes 
 are scripted, and you must quickly insert comands that correspond to colors flashing on the screen. 
 Those of you who played Shenmue, on the Dreamcast, think "QTE" and you'll get the gist of it. Even 
 though this kind of gameplay usually is a poor excuse for some depth, it just seems right within 
 Indigo Prophecy. Nothing could work as well as it does.
  
  Another nuance here is, while the "killer" is your main character, you'll also have control over 
 the detective duo in charge of unsolving the crime, Carla and Tyler. There aren't that many games 
 that up you on the tail of a murderer and this one even puts you in both ends. There's even a scene 
 that's quite reminiscent of Silence of the Lambs here.
  
  The producers wanted to emphazise the game's plot so much that Indigo Prophecy is almost purely 
 cinematic... little by little, you will find that Lucas has nothing of average, engaging a quest 
 where you fight unearthly forces while being hunted by the police, for they see you as a murderer, 
 after all. 
  
  The first half of the game drags a bit, although it isn't really a problem, it ends up putting 
 the player just in the right mood. But that's where lies the problem, mood for what? Don't get 
 me wrong, the second half of Indigo Prophecy WILL make you hold your breath (there are two particular 
 sequences that makes The Matrix look like Powerpuff Girls) , but once the misteries start to be 
 unveiled, it all comes to an end much too quickly. It leaves that sour "that's it?" taste into 
 the player's mouth.
  
  Even being sort, it can have a nice replay value if the player is willing to do and see everything 
 in the game. You'll take decisions that have some short-term relevance since, although it's a multiple-ending 
 game, only a few choices you make in the latter parts of the game actually will affect the closure 
 of the story. But throughout the whole game, decisions and actions you take can cause a "game over" 
 screen that is different depending on the context and part of the game that you messed up.
  
  Voice acting is pretty solid, although over-the-top in rare instances and the soundtrack holds 
 it together pretty well. There's music when there needs to be music and there's only appropriate 
 ambient sounds when the games wants to put some heavy mood. Also, there's a lot of licensed material 
 here too.
  
  At last and... well, at least, the Graphics. Not that the game is hideous or anything like that, 
 but it also doesn't add anything... it looks quite 2 years ago...
  
  Wrapping up, Indigo Prophecy has a solid gameplay, is pleasant to hear, breath-taking action sequences 
 and despite some minor problems, a killer storyline. It could've been a longer game, but just the 
 mood it puts you in makes the whole experience worthwhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShraZ_Zy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 10, 2005 11:22 pm PT
Review:  This is game got some really good potential. It was like a movie-like game. Very good acting voice, 
 graphics, and story! I thought the game would be short but it was way longer than I expected. Not 
 only is it longer but it also makes you want to replay it to see what the other consequences were.
 
  
  The graphics are good, good enough for the type of game. The controls are fine, most people brag 
 about it but I changed the keys the FPS style WADS and it works fine w/ the arrows.
  
  Awesome visual and camera style. Never seen it so beautifully done in a video game. This game sometimes 
 reminds me of STILL LIFE.
  
  Con: Abit too much repetition in the two circle game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huss2215
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 10, 2005 9:56 pm PT
Review:  An incredible game worth each and every single penny!! "Unbelivable, a type of game you've never 
 played before!" Before I begin just so everyone knows I played the PAL version Farienheit, so thats 
 what I am basing it on. The difficulty is just right but may depend on the setting you have it 
 on. If you play the tutorial you will learn everything 0-30min. Yup I would say it is a masterpiece. 
 Gameplay: Like I said a game that you may have never played before. You could say it is everything, 
  it is all of that. But what is the mear miss of the gameplay 
 is that parts of repatative "Simon" type action, meaning you press buttons according to what it 
 tells you to press instead of you actually living and doing the action. But still it's supposed 
 to be like a movie and it does a hell of a job making you feel it. Graphics are amazing, makes 
 you feel like your in a cold snowy climate of NYC! Amazing sound track and voice acting was done 
 real great. This game is worth buying, its very addicting and has a great story AND has PO*NAL!!! 
 Some great sex senes if you are interested. haha! What does this game not have, well as explained 
 in my gameplay section, other then that this game is awesome!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n0s2004
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 10, 2005 5:49 pm PT
Review:  This has been one of the best story featured in a game this year. If any adventure gamer is reading 
 my review just to know that if this game is worth buying then stop reading n get it now ! Others 
 may want to read on.
  
  The only bad thing about the PC version is the gameplay. The mouse n keyboard combo doesnt work 
 that well. You might have a better time playing with a dual analog joypad. But still the will to 
 play this game will even make it easier to play with the mouse n keyboard. This is the first n only 
 adventure game that i've ever played n what a way to start playing them with this gem. Even if anyone 
 hasn't played an adventure game before shouldn't miss this game, The sheer level of cinematic gameplay 
 will appeal to anyone.
  The action sequences will leave you drooling n even put the matrix to shame. Although we are just 
 pressing buttons it still feels like we are pulling off all those moves ourselves.
  
  This game is just that damn good, Freakin' recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deschain
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 10, 2005 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Indigo Prophecy (aka Fahrenheit in Europe) fulfills the promise of being a cinematic experience. 
 While the game is short and the ending could have been expanded upon, overall this is the kind 
 of innovative game that gaming in general and adventure games in particular have been lacking.
 
  
  The biggest change is the way you control the characters. While in some ways obviously designed 
 for consoles, the control scheme adapts fairly well to a keyboard mouse combination. If you are 
 used to using a WASD combination, you'll probably want to remap your left hand to these keys and 
 your right hand to the arrow keys. Other adjustments will likewise make gameplay easier, but the 
 game is not too difficult (I originally played on the "easy" setting but have since beaten the 
 game on the "hard" setting as well) .
  
  Another difference is that if you make wrong choices the game will end early (you can pickup from 
 a previous saved point to continue on) with an actual ending. This can range from Lucas being arrested 
 to going insane to a number of other possible endings. The only negative is that right choices 
 only moderately affect the progression of the game.
  
  What really makes Indigo Prophecy is the story. Unlike most games, you see the story from two different 
 angles, that of Lucas Kane, the "wrong place, wrong time" guy who becomes a murderer, and that 
 of Carla Valenti, the tenacious detective investigating the case. A couple of other characters 
 have some degree of playability, but the story really focuses on Lucas and Carla. 
  
  There are enough choices in the game to make it worth replaying at least a couple of times, and 
 because it is short you'll probably want to play more than once. Replaying can almost be required 
 since, depending on your dialog choices (and how good you are at the "Simon Says") , you may finish 
 the game with a less than satisfactory understanding of what has occurred. Be assured that most 
 questions are answered if the right questions are asked. Of particular importance is Lucas' first 
 meeting with Agatha, Carla's conversation at the practice range, and the conversation near the 
 end with Bogart. 
  
  This is truly a great, innovative game. I hope this is the sign of things too come and not just 
 another oddity like System Shock 2 or Deus Ex.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Unreal-
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 10, 2005 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Fahrenheit, or "Indigo Prophecy" is what some people will call a unique game. This is true, alhough 
 it's appearance is at first deceiving when you actually play the game.
  
  The game takes place in modern day New York, in January during an unusually heavy amount of snow 
 blizzards. The main character here is seemingly normal Lucas Kane, who is introduced to us through 
 a grusome murder in a New York diner one evening. At the beginning of the game you will see Lucas 
 in one of the diner's restroom cubicles cutting his arms before exiting the cubicle and murdering 
 an unsuspecting man. After this cut sequence you gain control of the character, which is when you 
 must decide on what to do. You will see in a split-screen a cop eating in the diner who eventually 
 gets up and makes his way to the bathroom. Should you hide the body in another cubicle and clean 
 the blood up? or should you just make a break for it out the door? This is the kind of thing you 
 can expect Fahrenheit to throw at you regularly through the course of the game.
  The decision making is simple, although you will often find that time is not on your side.
  
 
  During the course of the game you will also be introduced to a couple more controlable characters 
 which you can choose which to control at various points of the game. Although sadly choosing which 
 to play as doesn't seem to matter anyway since these are split into little chapters and it seems 
 they all need to be done anyway.
  
  Fahrenheit may seem like the regular adventure game, although it's the way that you use your controls 
 which makes it different. You will see icons at the top of your screen with a little blip beside 
 them which will move upwards, downwards, or left and right. When you are next to something which 
 is interactive these icons will appear, and to use them all you do is move the primary control 
 (control stick on consoles) in the direction the icons blip is moving in.
  
  This at first seems like a great way to control the game, and it works, although it's nothing impressive 
 even if it hasn't been done before. Some interactive items in the world will require different 
 movements, for example circular motions for mopping a bloody floor (hint hint) .
  
  Another gameplay element in the game are the "Simon Says" style sequences. These are regular points 
 in the game which happen at any time and can range from sequences which need to be completed successfully 
 to progress in the game, to ones which only slightly change the story.
  
  During these sequences the player will see two coloured circles which are divided into four parts 
 each, just like the Simon Says light games. Simply watch the sequence and follow it with your keys 
 or thumbsticks.
  
  The fact that Fahrenheit has no inventory makes it feel a little shallow. The game has no real 
 puzzles, only the afore-mentioned Simon Says sequences, simple decision making tasks and other 
 key pressing rythmic games. To put it short, the game is basically an on-rails movie brought along 
 by these mini-games. You can move your character of course, although the areas which you can move 
 them are very small.
  
  Fahrenheit's graphics are fair. They do the job and the characters look pretty good. There aren't 
 any special DirectX 9 things in here, and the game as a whole looks pretty standard. It actually 
 looks similar to the Hitman series in both art and technology.
  
  The characters in this game are probably the best point of it. This game has some very likable 
 people in it who have great voice acting and often show a decent sense of emotion. This is a good 
 thing for what seems to be the main focal point of Fahrenheit, the story as it really strenghtens 
 it.
  
  Fahrenheit could have been a much deeper game, although it does work, has great characters and 
 story, it's the actual gameplay which lets it down. Sadly it's an adults story which plays like 
 a childrens game. Becuase of this, it's definately best to rent this game out and play it, since 
 it's probably going to dissapoint a majority of people after they finish what is already a fairly 
 short game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason_Morris
Rating: 4.6
Date: Oct 10, 2005 12:39 pm PT
Review:  I'm reading about how this game is the great new hope for the adventure game, and I'm feeling like 
 I have played a different game. Sure, Fahrenheit (as it's called this side of the pond) , has some 
 highly commendable features, an impressive cinematic style, a superb music score by reknowned David 
 Lynch composer Angelo Badalamenti and some descent characterisation, but these are blotted out 
 by the negative.
  
  The first major gripe is the coloured button "copycat" game that occurs when you get to an action 
 stage of the game, rather than having to do anything even vaguely related to what your character 
 is doing at this point, you are made to copy coloured lights at the bottom of the screen. Not only 
 does this draw you away from the action, but it is extremely childish, much like a toy I had called 
 "Simon" in the 80s. When I was 8. Not good in a game that is supposedly "Mature"... The next big 
 niggle takes some time to dawn; that there are no real puzzles. Some adventure game. Some of the 
 things that are presented as "puzzles" are in fact incredibly contrived plot devices; you have 
 some champagne, let's find some glasses, they're in the cupboard. Myst eat your heart out... This 
 is, in fact, and sadly unsurprisngly, much more linear than we were led to beleive by the hype. 
 You are led through the plot by the nose, with only little things like having a shower having an 
 impact on other characters' reactions.
  
  To top it all off, the game comes to a very unsatisfactory close after a mere 6 hours of Gameplay, 
 with only a single stealth section providing anything vaguely like a challenge! 
  
  A new hope for the adventure game this is not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dar_
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 28, 2005 5:54 pm PT
Review:  In recent years, adventure games were less popular than many fans of the genre wished they would 
 be. The old school, point and click adventure games are simply not as popular as they once were. 
 Indigo Prophecy, or Fahrenheit if you prefer, gives a breath of fresh air to the genre, being an 
 adventure game itself, but not quite like every other adventure game out there. While Indigo has 
 similarities with the classic adventure games, it also has differences that actually manage to 
 make it more interesting. Indigo Prophecy maintains some basic concepts of adventure games, while 
 building a completely different, cinematic experience on top of that.
  
  One of such cinematic elements in Indigo Prophecy is the fact that the player gets to control different 
 characters at different points in the game, just like a movie might follow adventures of several 
 characters involved in the plot. The player starts out as Lucas Kane, an ordinary guy, working 
 as an IT manager in a bank in New York, who somehow finds himself killing a random man, in a bathroom 
 of a diner where he was eating. Lucas involuntarily stabs the man several times, and then drops 
 out of his trance, shocked at what he just did. Later on, when the body is discovered, the player 
 gets to control two cops that arrive at the scene to examine it.
  
  The decisions of each of the characters have impact on the storyline of the game. Lucas Kane can 
 either attempt to clean up the crime scene to leave as few traces of his presence as possible, 
 or he can just run out, panicking, and attract attention of two cops that were sitting in the diner. 
 That is one of the interesting concepts that Indigo introduces. In the game the player will rarely 
 get stuck somewhere, because he didnt combine two items in his inventory  instead, the player 
 will be given multiple paths out of any situation, and while some of them might just end the game 
 (for example, by getting our friend Kane arrested) , others will have an impact on what happens 
 later. Decision making is an important part of the game, and often the player will have to make 
 quick decisions when faced with difficult situations.
  
  Another interesting thing in Indigo Prophecy are the action sequences. Unlike most adventure games, 
 Indigo has multiple action sequences, many of which are very cinematic, and look as if they were 
 taken straight out of some popular action movie. While the player never directly controls the characters 
 during action sequences, like he would do in a FPS or a similar game, the player has to play a 
 reflex mini-game instead. By pressing the correct keys when instructed by the game, the player 
 can make the character either succeed or fail at the action that they are performing. For example, 
 there might be a car coming towards Lucas Kane, and the game might highlight one button to the 
 right, and one button to the left. If the player presses the two buttons in the allotted time, 
 Lucas Kane will manage to dodge the car and avoid getting killed. However, if player presses the 
 wrong keys, or presses them too late, Lucas will fail to dodge the car and will get run over. While 
 this system is rather simple, and doesnt give the satisfaction of directly controlling a character, 
 it is more flexible, and its still fun to see the action sequences on the screen while at the 
 same time making sure they play out the way they should.
  
  Besides action elements, there are also more conventional adventure game elements. In those, the 
 player controls the particular character from third person perspective, and interacts with the 
 environment in multiple ways. While the camera and movement controls make the game feel very much 
 like a console game, it isnt bothersome enough to make the game less enjoyable, and in fact, unlike 
 with some other games, its quite easy to use. While moving uses your usual, four-key controls, 
 performing actions is more interesting, as its done by mouse gestures. Whenever a character approaches 
 something that is interactive, an icon pops up at the top, along with another icon telling the 
 player which way to move the mouse to perform the said action. So, for example, in order to open 
 the door, the player might have to push the mouse forward while holding the left mouse button, 
 or pull it back, depending on which way the door opens. The mouse gestures arent too complicated, 
 and most often involve straight movement. The control scheme might seem kind of odd, perhaps another 
 thing that got ported from consoles, but it works without too many problems and is easy to get 
 used to. 
  
  The thing about Indigo Prophecy is that the game isnt enjoyable mainly because of the action sequences 
 or adventure game elements; one of the main reasons why the game is fun, if not the main reason 
 is the plot. Playing the game is like watching a good movie, and the interactive elements of it 
 are just enough to keep the player more entertained, so that he doesnt feel like he is playing 
 some sort of a non-interactive film. While Indigo Prophecy manages to maintain the plot interesting 
 throughout most of the game, it messes up towards the end of the game. Its not just that some 
 questions were left unanswered Its that it seems like some of them were never even asked. After 
 the end of the game the player is forced to fill out some of the plot himself, and not because 
 the game was mysterious, but because the game failed to provide some parts of the plot, and acted 
 like the player knew them. Besides the rushed feeling towards the end of the game, the story remains 
 fascinating throughout the game, and is probably one of the most interesting stories in any game 
 that came out recently. And not only is the story interesting, the atmosphere of the game also 
 contributes to it. The game feels very dark, and gloomy, and you can really start to identify with 
 Lucas Kane, who desperately tries to find out if hes going insane. 
  
  The graphics in Indigo Prophecy arent special. While they generally dont strike you as ugly, 
 they arent awesome either. Some textures appear to be quite low-res, but everything else looks 
 what you would expect it to look like  the graphics in the game are fairly standard. The animations, 
 on the other hand, tend to look quite well. A lot of motion capture was done for the game, and 
 some parts of it were literally played out by motion capture actors before being included in the 
 game. Due to that, scripted sequences tend to look very good, and especially action sequences, 
 which look very Hollywood-y.
  
  Audio in Indigo Prophecy is generally done well. Voice actors did a good job with the voice acting, 
 and the lines they say generally help contribute to the gloomy feel of the game. The music in the 
 game also helps set the mood of the game, or the particular scene, with few exceptions, when it 
 seems sort of out of place. But generally, the sounds of the game dont make you think of bunnies 
 and rainbows, but instead add to the dark feeling of the game.
  
  Indigo Prophecy is certainly a unique game. Besides that, its also simply a fun game. The game 
 is like a mix of a movie and an adventure game  and while such bizarre mixes sometimes make the 
 end result less enjoyable, in Indigo Prophecys case, they actually work.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VibratingDonkey
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 20, 2005 4:04 pm PT
Review:  David Cage was upset about how little developers had untapped the potential of videogame narratives 
 and decided to embark on a quest to fix that problem. Fahrenheit delivers, most of the time.
  
  Fahrenheit starts out with Lucas Kane eating at a diner, when he suddenly takes a knife and 
 goes to the restroom. He doesn't take his pants off, sits down on the toilet and... carves a weird 
 symbol into his forearms. As a man enters the restroom to urinate a bit Lucas exits the stall with 
 knife in hand, walks towards the man with ankward steps, like a puppet on a string and stabs him 
 three times in the chest. SNAP back to reality. Lucas comes to his senses and discovers what he's 
 done. From this point on it's up to YOU to decide. Do you panic and run away as fast as you can 
 or do you urinate a bit yourself, clean yourself up, pay your bill and act normal to not raise 
 any suspicion? This is one of the features of Fahrenheit. And though you're not free to do whatever 
 you want and every choice doesn't actually have a consequence, you do have choices and these choices 
 can affect other scenes in the story. Sometimes scenes are more complex sometimes less. Sometimes 
 I'm surprised they thought about a certain detail. Sometimes I'm a bit dissapointed they didn't.
 
  
  You move Lucas as usual by moving the left thumbstick. But mostly everything else about the control 
 system is not usual. You perform actions by standing near the object you wish to interact with 
 and move the right thumbstick in a movement corresponding with what the character does on screen. 
 For instance if you want to mop the floor you move it up and back to its neutral position. The 
 animation plays out as you move the stick, analog animations. You can play around with this if 
 you want to. Perhaps it's just me but I think it's fun to open a door a bit, then shut it, then 
 open, shut, open, shut, just because I can, or perhaps because I'm a psycho. Makes the character 
 appear like one anyway. Other actions that are part of the game consists of either QTE-scenes where 
 you need to push the sticks in the directions shown on screen. Doing this allows Quantic Dream 
 to make scripted scenes playable, kinda. Some of these scenes are really neato. And then there's 
 the TracknFielding where you mash the shoulderbuttons till they or your fingers break. This too 
 is an attempt to simulate the characters action. When they struggle with a physical task, so must 
 you is the idea. A tip is to use your thumbs instead of your index fingers. Much easier.
  
  This all would work pretty good if it weren't for one thing. The camera. In indoor scenes the camera 
 is fixed in certain cinematic angles. You can switch between different angles with the push of 
 a button, but the problem is... let's take an example:
  You're in a straight hallway. The camera is behind you. You walk forwards by pushing the stick 
 up. All of a sudden the camera changes to being in front of you. You continue to push up and the 
 character continues to walk forward. Stop, push up again and the character walks back the way he 
 came. This confuses you and makes the character run into a couple of walls. Can become a bit ankward, 
 especially during timebased sequences.
  
  The best part about this game is without a doubt the narrative and the characters. The game is 
 populated by deep, believable and likeable personalities. During the first parts of the game it's 
 really focused more on the characters and their development than the actual story. The story itself 
 isn't all that spectacular really, it's the way it is told. Using splitscreen cameras, motion captured 
 animations, great voiceacting, dialog, cinematic camerangles and different people's point of view. 
 In the beginning you of course want to know what's going on. But the explanation is a bit silly, 
 though expected and accaptable I guess. What really is silly though is the ending. Not at all as 
 fleshed out as the rest of the game it's sloppy, rushed and makes little sense, if at all. I wouldn't 
 have been surprised had a naked flying clone of Micheal Jackson appeared. That's how bizarre it 
 is. This is the only thing I can really complain about. (not the lack of MJ) And it's a shame cause 
 it could've been so much better. To David Cage I ask: WTF?, why? and how can a stiff be stiff? 
 To David Cage I give: my money and a *****slap. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
