-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Indiana Jones and the Infernal Machine
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/indianajonesandtheim/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  8, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.3
Critic Score: 7.4, 32 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 402 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Genre: Historic Action Adventure
Date:     Oct 31, 1999 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Quirky controls, repetitive puzzles, and a range of other annoying flaws keep this game from being 
 the major-league hit that Indiana Jones fans hoped it would be. 

 It's not often that a game perfectly captures the essence of both genres without compromise. In 
 the case of Infernal Machine, adventure fans will be left wanting, as the latest Indy game is almost 
 100 percent pure Tomb Raider-style action. It's true that the game has an interesting story, that 
 it creates several memorable gameplay sequences, and that it successfully captures the spirit of 
 Indiana Jones. But quirky controls, repetitive puzzles, and a range of other annoying flaws keep 
 it from being the major-league hit that Indiana Jones fans hoped it would be.  

 The game takes place in 1947, when World War II has ended and the Nazis are finished. But as the 
 Cold War begins, so does a new challenge for the esteemed archaeologist. It seems the Soviets have 
 uncovered a mystery in a dig site near the ancient city of Babylon. Recruited by his old friend 
 Sophia Hapgood, Indy sets off to discover the secret of these ruins before Volodnikov - his portly 
 Soviet rival - gets his hands on whatever it is. And so Indy will embark on an adventure that leads 
 him to Kazakstan, the Philippines, Mexico, and the Sudan. The game features 16 levels in all, including 
 one secret level.  

 Gameplay in Infernal Machine is similar to that of the Tomb Raider games, though Infernal Machine 
 also bears a strong resemblance to Bethesda's action-adventure Redguard. Between levels, Indy can 
 use the treasures he has found to purchase additional equipment and healing supplies, which is 
 a good idea and a welcome one for this type of game.  

 However, excluding that small innovation, Infernal Machine is mostly about jumping, climbing, and 
 swinging from Indy's whip. In fact, the game often puts too much emphasis on this sort of thing. 
 Nearly every puzzle of consequence requires extensive jumping or climbing. It's as if the developers 
 forgot that puzzles can be simpler and less agility-driven and still remain a challenge. Yet after 
 the first four or five levels of Infernal Machine, most of the puzzles become quite repetitive 
 - even predictable - and you may find yourself longing for a straightforward combination puzzle 
 or other thinking challenge rather than another sequence of blocks and ladders.  

 Even if you never tire of the sort of puzzle that requires numerous jumps and shimmies, you probably 
 won't appreciate the controls you'll have to work to overcome. Keyboard users should just forget 
 about it right now: The game is simply too jerky and unresponsive on the keyboard. A gamepad is 
 the best way to control Indy's moves, but even with a good pad you'll still run into some problems. 
 To begin with, there's often too much of a delay between actions. There is a pause as you climb 
 onto a ledge or ladder, or up out of water. This slows down your progress significantly and can 
 be deadly in certain areas, particularly in one adrenaline-pumping sequence involving a gargantuan 
 ice creature. A game that relies so heavily on quick-reflex challenges needs to react faster and 
 better to user input. One other major problem with the controls is that the game is far too picky 
 about the way you line up next to a button, door, or other interactive object. Far too often, you 
 have to line up just right or else nothing will happen. This is especially irksome during some 
 of the game's key puzzles, where you might think you've already tried a particular solution but 
 actually haven't because you weren't in quite the right place when you hit the action button. As 
 a result, you'll end up trying a hundred other possibilities before stumbling back onto the proper 
 solution.  

 However, Infernal Machine isn't all bad. The graphics, while not exactly cutting edge, are generally 
 quite good. Save for his enormous head, the in-game Indiana Jones actually resembles Harrison Ford, 
 and many of his mannerisms are captured well by the animations. The fact that he always pulls out 
 a fresh hat from somewhere after climbing out of the water is a nice touch. Unfortunately, many 
 of the other 3D models are not so good, but even their movements are fairly smooth and convincing. 

 Most of the levels are aesthetically well designed because of convincing architecture and wall decorations 
 that seem appropriate to each locale. Spiderwebs and other atmospheric touches are well placed. 
 Many of the outdoor levels have a blocky, artificial look, but the indoor scenery is impressive. 

 The game features just enough enemies without seeming excessive. Why you cannot shoot an attacking 
 wolf is peculiar (you can only frighten it off) , but the rest of the creatures and enemies will 
 make for impressive encounters. Not only will you meet a horde of Soviet troops on your journey, 
 but also plenty of spiders, scorpions, lizards, and snakes. There are also a few memorable boss 
 monsters to fight.  

 However, in terms of providing high-quality gameplay, the level design in Infernal Machine is not 
 quite what it should be. Most of the game's puzzles require a great deal of back-and-forth travel 
 across each level. This wouldn't be so bad if it didn't require numerous trips through areas filled 
 with extensive and tedious climbing and jumping. It also wouldn't be so bad if the game didn't 
 rely so heavily on frustratingly obscure puzzles that seem to be designed to make players retrace 
 their steps several times. Among other things, returning to the beach on Palawan Lagoon and the 
 seemingly never-ending plant puzzle in the Shambala Temple come across as backward, convoluted, 
 or both. Many of the puzzles in Infernal Machine simply have too many steps. Rarely, if ever, are 
 you presented with an obvious challenge that you just have to logically think your way through. 
 Fans of the Indiana Jones and the Fate of Atlantis adventure game will likely be disappointed by 
 this structure - not to mention the action-oriented gameplay - while even Tomb Raider veterans 
 may find many of the puzzle solutions disjointed, random, and too long.  

 Even so, the game can be great at times. Some of the extended action sequences, such as the inflatable 
 raft, mining car, and jeep scenes, are a lot of fun. The sound effects, though somewhat tinny, 
 add a lot of atmosphere to the game. Indy's comments are well timed and helpful, while some of 
 the other dialogue can be very funny. In fact, if not for the quirky controls, this would be a 
 good 3D action game - albeit one with some ill-conceived puzzles and obstacles.  

 In final analysis, Indiana Jones and the Infernal Machine is a decent 3D action game that suffers 
 from control problems and puzzles that quickly grow old and repetitive. Tomb Raider fans may enjoy 
 the look and feel of the game, and die-hard Indy fans should get a kick out of the archaeologist's 
 first 3D game, but anyone expecting a pure combination of action and adventure will likely be disappointed. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: wmcgee353
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 9:04 pm PT
Review:  This game came straight from the playbook of Tomb Raider, which I feel you can't go wrong with 
 that as it was ground breaking video game technology in 1996. There's a good variety of climates 
 and worlds: deserts, snow capped mountains, tropical islands, volcano pits, you name it this game 
 has it. I've never been a big fan of PC games because of using the keyboard, but for the moment 
 I'm XBOX 360-less. I thought I'd dust this one off and I'm actually very wrapped up in it. I got 
 to thinking about it and I've almost had this game 10 years! Not bad for being that old and holding 
 my attention.
  
  If you liked the Tomb Raider game style and like solving puzzles in the game you'd be well pleased 
 with this one aside from playing with a keyboard. If I had a joystick controller I would have given 
 this game a high 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Behold
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 10:35 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan of the Indiana Jones franchise since I was a kid. Yeah, I was incredibly afraid 
 of the Khali cultists in Temple of Doom , but I loved the fast-paced action and nearly campy jokes.
 
  
  Indiana Jones &amp; the Infernal Machine doesn't contain much of the dynamic action featured in 
 the films, forcing you more to utilize your little grey 'uns to get by. Of course, it does feature 
 action, although in a bit stale and stiff way.
  
  In Infernal Machine , Sophia Hapgood (from Indiana Jones &amp; the Fate of Atlantis ) unveils Soviet 
 Russia's new plans to Indy; something involving an ancient machine found in Iraq (or Iran, whatevz) . 
 Indy, of course, being the professional archaeologist that he is, decides to investigate and is 
 drawn into a plot bigger than he could have imagined (or not really, considering his canon earlier 
 exploits) ! The story is quite good, actually, Indy travelling from the desert ruins of Iraq to 
 ruined Japanese military bases to otherworldly realms, in search of the parts of the great Infernal 
 Machine. Despite not being completely original, the story, with classic Indy lines and happenings, 
 works very well.
  
  Everybody who knows me knows that grapics in a game has never mattered to me, and never will. The 
 graphics in Infernal Machine are a little less than what you could expect from a 1999 title, but 
 function very well indeed. The models are a bit crude, but the lipsynching's good. The textures 
 for all the locations look proper, and there is a huge variety of textures indeed. The graphics 
 work completely fine with me (I kinda dig those early 3D games anyway) .
  
  In the game, there is hardly ever any music playing, besides a few cues during important events 
 (quite well made they are too) , which leaves you with the surroundings to take in the Indy experience. 
 I kinda like quiet games at times, and with no music distracting you, figuring out the variety 
 of puzzles is easier. It actually benefits the game, not having music constantly playing. The sound 
 effects are so-and-so; some of the pistol shots sound completely strange (gotta love it!) but Indy's 
 footstep sounds always correspond with the type of flooring he is walking on, pretty believable, 
 which is good. There is of course CRACK noises whenever you utiliize Indy's trademark whip, and 
 the parts of the machine that are gained over time have outlandish, weird noises to them. The dialogue 
 between characters (and those gawdawful Soviets!) , an early example of its usage, is a bit crispy 
 in audio quality, but it gets the job done. The sound part works pretty good, in all relativity.
 
  
  Now, to the gameplay. You control Indy, and you can make him jump, swim, climb walls/ladders and 
 whatnot. Not having a dynamic game engine like current games, it feels a bit stiff, and it's very 
 important to learn how to jump well, as even the slightest miscalculation on the angle of the jump 
 will have you at the bottom of the next pungee pit fast. It's a bit old school, but, as the game's 
 puzzle-oriented theme, less eye candy leaves more to the brain (or something like that) . Whenever 
 those darn Soviets or some mountain lion should appear though, it's no more Mr. Nice Guy for Indy; 
 as Finlay would put it, it's time to fight! . However, beating the baddies in Machine is actually 
 pretty hard, as there is no first person view when having your gun out, and getting close to the 
 enemy is required to make the weapon auto-target it. So, you really need to act fast when you're 
 playing, or else you'll be dead meat fast. Fights are few and far between though, and mostly you'll 
 just be doing a few easy potshots at passing venomous spiders or snakes.
  
  To get through another contract-obligated quest, Indy (or rather, you) must solve a variety of 
 puzzles to advance further into the annals of archaeology history. These puzzles consist mainly 
 of pushing switches and timing, as well as pushing crates and finding a missing part to some machine, 
 all very basic stuff really. But some of them are really hard, and that's when it's good to have 
 the map/hint system in the game. Some of the game's levels are massive (even by today's standards!) 
 and you will have to be doing some backtracking to advance at times if you screw up.
  
  All in all, Indiana Jones &amp; the Infernal Machine is a great title, not to mention a classic 
 of its genre -- a sadly overlooked classic, featuring all the right Indy things (bar perhaps a 
 good fighting system) and great atmosphere. If you can pick this game up for a reasonable price, 
 do it, man! You could be disappointed of course, as everyone has their own taste, but this man 
 be likin' this game. And that's it for today's incredibly long review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  Here's a challenge for you: find a review of any of the Tomb Raider games that doesn't have the 
 words Indy or Indiana Jones in it somewhere. You can't, of course, because the premise of Tomb 
 Raider was so clearly inspired by the Indy movies that you might suspect the reason the game featured 
 a female lead was to avoid some sort of lawsuit (there were two other big reasons for it to be 
 a heroine, but the game's behind-the-back perspective meant you couldn't see 'em all the time) . With 
 Indiana Jones and the Infernal Machine, LucasArts has done a little borrowing of its own: you'd 
 have to be in a coma not to think of Ms. Croft as you watch Indy run, jump, climb, swim, shoot, 
 and swing his way through the game's 17 levels. But while this sure isn't the first game to take 
 its cue from Tomb Raider, it's definitely one of the best.
  
  One of the big reasons Infernal Machine stands out from the crowd of third-person action-adventures 
 is the storyline by Hal Barwood, whose previous credits include the great graphic adventure Indiana 
 Jones and the Fate of Atlantis. Set in 1947, Infernal Machine replaces those nasty Nazis Indy thwarted 
 so often in the past with Russian scientists, spurred on by the escalating Cold War to find the 
 ultimate weapon - and just like the Nazis, the Commies are focusing their search on the myths of 
 ancient history. This time it's the Tower of Babel, which head Russkie Dr. Gennadi Voloonikov theorizes 
 was actually a machine capable of unleashing the power of Marduk, a Babylonian god who resides 
 in another dimension called the Aetherium (and which some Biblical scholars identify as none other 
 than Satan himself) . As Indy, you've got to find the four missing parts needed to make the machine 
 work - and eventually square off against Marduk himself.
  
  Though some of the character graphics and animations are only middling to fair (Voloonikov looks 
 particularly cartoonish) , you'll probably spend so much time admiring the terrain and scenery graphics 
 that you won't care in the least bit. Whether you're moving through expansive external environments 
 or jumping and climbing inside awe-inspiring temples, the 3D visuals here are almost movie-like 
 in their quality.
  
  In a move designed to appeal to gamers more than to fans of the Indy flicks, LucasArts has supplemented 
 our hero's pistol and whip (which Indy can use to haul himself up to normally unreachable locations) 
 with an arsenal of more powerful weapons: You'll get to use a rifle, machine gun, hand grenades, 
 and even a bazooka. Despite the beefed-up weaponry, however, combat isn't the Infernal Machine's 
 strong suit. Even with an auto-aiming feature, Indy's sluggish turning movements make it tough 
 to kill soldiers and critters. Fortunately, LucasArts didn't try to hang Indy's fedora on run-and-gun 
 action. The heart and soul of Infernal Machine revolves around pulling off a variety of acrobatic 
 maneuvers and solving some decidedly difficult puzzles, many of which involve pulling levers and 
 pushing buttons to activate machinery.
  
  About the only weak points of Infernal Machine have nothing to do with gameplay, but instead with 
 mundane tasks like configuring keyboard assignments and loading saved games: the keyboard configuration 
 is a needlessly clunky affair that runs entirely separate from the game proper, and unless you 
 opted for the full install (890MB - the only other option is a meager 56MB install) , you can expect 
 some pretty serious waits as data loads from the CD-ROM. There are also a couple of bugs, including 
 a particularly nasty one that can keep you from leaving a level even after you've completed it. 
 Hopefully LucasArts will release a patch to take care of these problems.
  
  Longtime gamers who were hoping for a more traditional graphic adventure might be disappointed 
 that LucasArts went the action-adventure route with Infernal Machine, but in a year that's seen 
 plenty of high-quality action-adventures, Indiana Jones and the Infernal Machine stands up near 
 the head of the class. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GC-Ubernoob
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 4, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Indiana Jones and the Infernal Machine was a fun game to play through. The gameplay was solid exept 
 that the controls were kind of weird and unresponive at some points. The grahic for the time were 
 very well done Indy's character model looks very good. The sound was solid the puches, whip, and 
 gun shots all sounded real. The Puzzles however being long and repetitive were very annoying once 
 you got past the fourth level. The Story was very interesting to watch unravel. This game is hard 
 to find so if you have a copy take good care of it. Overall the only thing holding this game back 
 from being one of the most memorable experiances is the long puzzles and weird controls. If you 
 are an Indy fan or a Tomb Raider fan you may want to check it out for other people rent it first 
 on the N64 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ramana_Jala
Rating: 4.8
Date: Mar 14, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  I was really enjoying this game, but I reached a point where my controls would not make a required 
 jump, and I had to stop right there. I even tried different controllers to no avail. I really wanted 
 it to work, and I spent some time on it. The failure point was when Indy had to jump a large gap 
 of a broken wall.
  
  Apparently some people have been able to play it, so if that were the case, I would probably recommend 
 trying it. The graphics and general game-play were pretty decent up to the failure point. Of course, 
 I have no idea if it ended well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samcumber
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 10, 2007 7:33 am PT
Review:  This game has a good story line but the controls and graphics leave much to be desired, definitely 
 a good game for the right price (fairly cheap) . I personally like the story a lot. There are a 
 fair amount of levels as well so it does keep you going for some time. The bosses are always good 
 fun in finding ways to defeat them as they are not just the shoot and kill kind, although the graphics 
 don't do much for Harrison Ford lol. As this is an old game my overall impression is a good buy 
 but could be improved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_generation69
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 24, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  Indiana Jones fans look forward to each release of their favorite hero on the PC, and this game 
 is nicely done.
  
  ~GRAPHICS: ~
  Nice 3D build graphics make this game quite cool for all the archaeologist fans. While the outside 
 scenery is a little choppy, inside caves and other monuments, the detail is simply fantastic.
 
  
  ~SOUND:~
  There isn't much sound here, no fancy soundtracks or anything, but when the game wants to alert 
 you of something, it does it beautifully with an adequate sound effect. Very nice.
  
  ~GAMEPLAY~
  Although the Infernal Machine presents a solid storyline, the in game controls are 
 sloppy and difficult to control. Saving often is a must, as a little failure can lead to Game Over 
 quickly. Overall, IM presents itself as a solid game, but because of it's failures, doesn't make 
 it a totally enjoyable game. IJ fans will certainly be a little disappointed. Quite underrated, 
 though, as it's good qualities beat its bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: federico06
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jan 18, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Has too much fantasy and unrealistic movements
  Not a good appearance from my dear Indiana
  
  I really got angry watching that stupid end as the game has too much moments that are a really 
 crap.
  Unbelievable graphics and movements that made me feel that Jones was a quadriplegic paleontologist. 
 All the gameplay and history are the worst combination of adventure if I can say that... that I 
 have ever seen.
  How is it that instantly we fall in the water we die.
  I only loved the russian characters.
  
  But if you want to get the time passed, play this game. 
 Well I didn't do that.
  I used the Cd as a really good Frisbee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spex70
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 24, 2006 8:09 am PT
Review:  As an Indiana Jones fan i must say that this game is quite enjoyable. I love how the storyline 
 follows the classic Indy style. One of my favorite levels is V. I. Puddovkin, a level in which Indy 
 is captured by communists and taken by boat through the Atlantic ocean. My favorite thing to do 
 in that level is to search the entire boat for communists. Whenever i find one inside a room i 
 throw a grenade in with him. I watch the grenade explode as the door slowly closes on my victim. 
 (Laughs maniacly.) In concllusion i would have to say that this game is deffinately worth-while. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjhrules
Rating: 2.1
Date: Mar 11, 2006 7:36 am PT
Review:  After playing "Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade" and "Indiana Jones and the Fate of Atlantis" 
 I had high hopes for this game. Little did I know that this game is the most idiotic, pathetic 
 and saddest game ever released.
  
  In the earlier game, logic thinking was the key to success. In this game jumping from stone to 
 stone is the key. My only thought about this game is that Lucas Arts wants to get people used to 
 idiotic games because that is what the future holds. 
  
  So instead of amazing Indy and Monkey Island games will get "tomb raider games. This game must 
 have been very cheap to make but still it will sell much because of the earlier Indy games. Just 
 sad...
  
  Don't give Lucas Arts money for this game. Stay away for your own good!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyoe
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 19, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  I got this game back when I was a youngin and i had been a big indiana jones fan since i first 
 played the old one about atlantis as a child. When i got this game i still had windows 95 so i 
 couldnt play it but on one faithful day we got a new comp and by then my game (unplayed) had aquired 
 some dust so i installed it and for the first couple hours the game worked perfectly and i was 
 flooded with old memories of happyness as i killed the red menece. At first i was attacked by a 
 couple of small bugs but nothing too durastic. But then during one of the level (i forget which 
 one) something went horribly wrong the frame rate went crazy and the game turned into a slide show 
 with the same sentence of dialogue repeating itself over and over until the game went back to the 
 main menu then proceeded to crash my computer. I (being a young child with high hopes) decided 
 to try again restart my comp and such with the same results. I tried this over and over long into 
 the night until my mom forced my into my bed where i proceeded to cry myself to sleep, in the morning 
 i couldn't even face my own computer or the entire floor it was on. Many years later we got a new 
 video card and i thought it was worth giving it another shot, though it did make it past the part 
 of which it froze and crashed last time, it only proceeded to do the same thing at another part. 
 At this point i gave up and substituted the emporors tomb to this game and gave the infernal disk 
 to my friend who has probably yet to play it. This game only loses points because of what it did 
 to my childhood. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burnoutx1985
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2006 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Save the game often. Save when you find an item. Save when you've made a difficult jump. The game 
 does automatically save between levels, but you'll need to do it the rest of the time. Eventually 
 I found using chapter numbers to be the easiest to organise the saved games. There is a quick save 
 function, but you should have multiple saves for any chapter. There will be times when you'll need 
 to restore from a previous save because you've done something like jump in a pit and you needed 
 to start a machine *before* you jumped in the pit.
  
  Listen closely. The music lets you know when you have completed something, when you have found 
 a significant area, when you are in dangerous territory. Russians frequently yell at each other, 
 dangerous beasts make noises as they approach. Indiana will also tell you things, and he is always 
 right about them.
  
  Beware of traps. Indy will warn you about some, but there are a number of pressure plate traps 
 that he might not mention. You'll learn to recognise suspicious floor tiles. But floor tiles aren't 
 the only traps around, you'll just have to be careful.
  
  Save the game. If something seems too hard, like a very long jump, it's time to look around. There 
 may be an alternative path. There may be some object nearby that Indy can use the whip on. You 
 may not even need to go that direction at all.
  
  The treasures scattered throughout the game are hidden behind objects, at the dead end of a trail, 
 on ledges and in somewhat hard to get to spots. You trade in treasure to buy ammunition, medical 
 supplies and a map to a hidden level. Treasure never shows up on your map
  
  In the inventory, you have a lighter and a piece of chalk. These are extremely useful and valuable 
 items. Use the lighter in dark areas to find ledges, hidden corners and in caves. The chalk allows 
 Indy to mark where he has been. If you're not good at building a mental map of a location, this 
 can help a lo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: epross
Rating: 5.9
Date: Oct 19, 2004 8:12 pm PT
Review:  I picked this game up at Costco for $14.95 and I am sure glad that I didn't pay more. It was merely 
 ok. The controls were twitchy and not all the control combinations seemed to work at all times; 
 not to mention the delays after pressing a key and waiting for Indy to respond. I've played all 
 the Indiana Jones games so far (even the old DOS ones) and this one continues with the (and adds 
 many more) boring, repetitive puzzles in this genre. In addition, you spend a lot of time either 
 pixel hunting, adjusting Indy's position because he's not quite on the right spot to make that 
 jump/hit that switch; or revisting areas on the map because either the poor graphics or camera 
 angle didn't reveal yet another passage, items, or switch. Sometimes I found myself wandering around 
 wondering what to do next. Good thing Gamespot had a walkthrough to help guide me. I found that 
 many times I was trying to do EXACTLY what the walkthrough said, but because I didn't have Indy 
 positioned quite right (facing the right direction, two steps back, etc.) it wasn't working for 
 me. 
  Even though I found myself very frustrated by the game at times, I always wanted to see what the 
 next area would hold and what was at the end of the game. So I guess from that perspective the 
 game succeeding in keeping me interested, despite its flaws. I'm not sure how long it took me to 
 finish - 4 years from my first save game to end, but most of that time I played less that 10 minutes 
 a week (my purchase of the game conicided with the birth of my daugher - hence the subsequent decrease 
 in gaming time!) . Still if other upcoming Indy games are of this quality, buy them from the bargain 
 bin. Enjoyable, but they have their limits. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
