-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Indiana Jones and the Emperor's Tomb
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/indianajonesandtheet/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  1, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 7.8, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 666 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Developer: Double Helix Games
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Mar 25, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While Emperor's Tomb's control issues will take you a good hour or so to get comfortable with, the 
 puzzles and combat come together nicely and make for a pretty good action game. 

  When Tomb Raider first hit the scene back in 1996, it was easy to describe the game's premise as 
 an Indiana Jones movie with a female lead. Lara Croft spent the next several years cornering the 
 market on the video game version of action archeology, and even though the comparisons to Harrison 
 Ford's big-screen character never really stopped completely, it took LucasArts four years to strike 
 back with Indiana Jones and the Infernal Machine -- a flawed game for the PC and the Nintendo 64. 
 Now, LucasArts is giving its whip-cracking action hero another shot at the title with Indiana Jones 
 and the Emperor's Tomb, a game originally released for the Xbox earlier this year. While Emperor's 
 Tomb has a few control issues that will take some time to get used to, the game's fast pace definitely 
 makes for an interesting adventure.           Indiana Jones fans will likely appreciate the way 
 their favorite archeologist is represented in the game.    

  Emperor's Tomb takes place in 1935 and puts the rough-and-tough archeologist on a quest to recover 
 a Chinese artifact known as the heart of the dragon -- a black pearl with the power to control minds. 
 In keeping with the standard Indiana Jones theme, our good doctor isn't the only faction involved 
 in the quest, and along the way you'll encounter plenty of Nazi thugs and Chinese gang members, 
 all of whom want the pearl for their own evil plans. Though the plot contains a few twists and 
 double-crosses along the way, the game is very thin on storytelling, only breaking into a cutscene 
 to move you from one part of the world to another. Even the mission objectives aren't expressly 
 conveyed outside of the pause screen, though the linear nature of the level design doesn't often 
 force you to know exactly what you're after at any given time, anyway. While the game is pretty 
 straightforward, it does throw a lot of different levels at you, moving through various locales 
 along the way. You'll travel to Prague, Istanbul, Hong Kong, an island fortress, and more. Even 
 though you'll be moving along from place to place fairly quickly, it doesn't feel like a short 
 game, and players should be able to get a bit over 10 hours out of it. There isn't much replay 
 value to speak of, of course, though the game does contain three difficulty settings and a handful 
 of optional artifacts that are hidden throughout the game. The game uses a checkpoint-style save 
 system that automatically records your progress, but there are usually enough checkpoints in each 
 level to keep you from having to recover too much ground when you die.  

  The game combines the exploration and third-person maneuvering of Tomb Raider with a simplified 
 version of the combat system found in The Collective's last game, the well-received Xbox action 
 game Buffy the Vampire Slayer. Indy runs on a modified version of the Buffy engine, and you can 
 do most of the running- and jumping-related activities you'd expect from a third-person action 
 game. At first, the control feels a little too loose. The game uses a standard keyboard and mouse 
 control scheme, but the normal W, A, S, D movement scheme is a little too jerky for use in some 
 of the game's tighter spaces. It's easy to miss jumps if you're sloppy with the controls. You'll 
 often find yourself having to use Indy's bullwhip to swing from one platform to another. The game 
 always lets you know where, exactly, you'll need to do this by showing a whip icon on the screen 
 when you're in position. Similarly, you'll see a knife icon when it's time to hack through thick 
 vines, a switch icon when there's something for you to pull, and an explosion icon when you're 
 near a spot that requires you to plant explosives. When any of these icons are up, an inventory 
 button lets you quickly yank out the necessary item. While this helps make the game a lot easier 
 than it would be without them, at other times the occasionally unclear level design obscures some 
 things that you'd otherwise need to see for yourself in order to proceed.  

  While you'll spend most of your time in the game running around and climbing up and over platforms, 
 there is also quite a bit of combat to be found. While the combat isn't terribly deep, it can still 
 be incredibly satisfying. Indy's punches, kicks, and grabs are exaggerated like in an action movie, 
 giving you the impression that he's really beating the hell out of his foes. He's got a good variety 
 of dirty moves in his arsenal, and a combo system lets you string attacks together.  

  Your whip comes into play during combat, as well. Normally, you just whip people, but if you get 
 the distance between you and your target down right, you can whip weapons out of enemies' hands 
 or even wrap the whip around a foe's neck and drag him over to you, for a quick left to the face. 
 You can also find and use a variety of firearms and makeshift weapons like chairs, and the game 
 even has a grappling system, which lets you get in a few punches or shove people up against walls... or 
 over the edges of cliffs, where you'll hear them go screaming down to their doom.           While 
 the combat isn't terribly deep, it can still be incredibly satisfying.    

  While the Xbox version of the game was plagued with various graphical and technical problems, it's 
 worth noting that the PC version has been considerably cleaned up when compared to its console 
 cousin. You'll still see a few instances where Indy or his foes will clip through walls, but overall, 
 the game runs at a smooth frame rate and looks good and feels like a much more "finished" product 
 than its Xbox counterpart. The animation for the fighting is done nicely and helps make the combat 
 seem convincing. The game's textures are sharp, though they do occasionally become a little repetitive. 
 The game's music does a good job of conveying the Indiana Jones-like feel. The soundalike used 
 for Indiana Jones himself does a convincing enough job of sounding like Harrison Ford's take on 
 the character, but you probably won't ever mistake the stand-in for the real deal. Some of the 
 other voices don't fare so well. The standard enemy voices get repetitive, and some of the accents -- Mei 
 Ying's Chinese accent, for example -- sound pretty bad.  

  Indiana Jones fans will find a lot to like in the Emperor's Tomb. While the game's control issues 
 will take you a good hour or so to get comfortable with, the puzzles and combat come together nicely 
 and make for a pretty good action game. Experienced action players may find the game and its puzzles 
 to be a bit on the easy side, but there's definitely some fun to be had here, and Indiana Jones 
 fans will likely appreciate the way their favorite archeologist is represented in the game.    
  
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (33 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: BLaZiNg_SPEED
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 2:58 pm PT
Review:  An absolutely amazing game for a game that has been made in 2003!
  
  I have been playing this for the last 2 years or so and have found this really enjoyable to play. 
 Useto play it on my old XP machine and thanks God it also works on VISTA with no problems!
  
  You enter through a series of adventures in different countries, from Sri Lanka to Czech Republic 
 and then to Turkey. You see and have to fight your way through various vicious enemies and creatures 
 such as sharks.
  The graphics are amazingly good. The AI is so intelligent and it spots you easily so you gotto 
 be smart or you'll get shot dead.
  
  This is very similar to Uncharted Drakes Fortune because you climb and run around kill enemies 
 with various weopons and fights, incredible!
  I think the games slighlty better than th critic score especially for its time. I see many modern 
 latest games who you can't play any longer then a couple of hours. Some of latest games have terrible 
 gameplay. Where as this has amazing gameplay. plus the graphics are very good, not like Crysis 
 thats for sure :) But amazing nonetheless.
  
  The only side affect I've got with this game is that you cannot save the game whenever you want. 
 You are forced to complete the level, the levels arent all that too long so you won't have problems 
 with it. Sometimes a bit of a trouble with controlling Indiana in can be a bit disadvantaging. 
 But again if you compare the control system of this game with "Alone in The Dark" you'll see that 
 it is trillion times easier to control then the game in AITD. So again just cos its old doesn't 
 mean its gold! :D
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashbag
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 2, 2009 12:42 pm PT
Review:  The Good: - Great hand to hand combat system
  - Graphics are pretty good. They are colourful
  - Orchestral soundtrack and realistic sfx are 
 very good 
  - Typically interesting indy story
  - Well balanced difficulty level with a good learning curve
  - Excellent platforming and some 
 interesting (if simple) puzzles
  - At eleven hours the game is a reasonable length
  
  The Bad: - Weapons aren't very useful because of confusing auto aim - Controls can be clunky
 
  - No save game feature can cause frustration on the more challenging levels
  - Boss fights are much too easy 
  
  Indiana Jones and The Emperors Tomb is by no means perfect, 
 but it is a very entertaining game that offers enough thrills from start to finish to be worth 
 your money, especially now that it could be found in any bargain bin for under 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jobc12
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2008 7:38 am PT
Review:  The graphics are O. K. but the sound is good. Indiana Jones is just like the actor in the movie. 
 The puzzles are simple but good. The combos in the fights are superb. They are the best part. The 
 Sherican boomerang at the end kills ninja zombies and is great. The game is so fun and wlll done. 
 I don't know why it is given moderate reviews. I play a lot of games and this one is one of the 
 best. I would go so far as to say I like it better that Super Mario Galaxy and Super Smash Brothers 
 Brawl. If you kids play it, they will have great memories of fights with henchmen. My favorite 
 is when I was fighting a henchman and we both lost our shotguns. In the end, I threw him in a waterfall 
 and triumphed. That was a great moment.
  
  This game has no multiplayer but you don't miss it. Often on multiplayer games, the singleplayer 
 mode is the best anyway. The PC version of this game is the best by far. The X-Box and PS2 versions 
 have some glitches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lukemaneiro
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 12, 2007 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Indiana Jones and the Emperor's Tomb gives us a major improvement over its predecessor, The Infernal 
 Machine . With an unique fighting engine, where you're presented with all kinds of guns and the 
 deadly punching and kicking combos that Indiana Jones can use... Oh, and let's not forget about 
 all the environment objects you can use to fight against hostiles, such as chairs, bottles... anything 
 you have around might help.
  
  The game has 10 levels. At first, it will take you a lot of time to finish this game, since it's 
 filled with puzzles. Your enemies will also use environment objects, guns and punches to try to 
 kill you, showing a good AI for the date the game was released.
  
  All the places around the world you'll be on in this game are unique. Basically, they're absolutely 
 distinct from each other and are pretty detailed as well, giving us realistic graphics.
  
  The music... Indiana Jones music, basically! The original soundtrack will be found in this game. 
 Another good point for the fans.
  
  Gameplay is repetitive sometimes, but as you play the game more things and actions are added slowly, 
 making the levels different from each other.
  
  The sound effects are good. Not spectacular, but good.
  
  So, basically, if you're a Indiana 
 Jones fan... this game is a must buy, a classic. If you're not, you might as well enjoy all the 
 graphics, action and music packed into this game... Give it out a try. I did, and I liked it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raivis09
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 14, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  One time when i was 6 years old i went to my aunt and she had the game allready installed. I was 
 so impressed about the game..... some time before i was playing Enter The Matrix but the game wasnt 
 better : it had awfuller graphics and it was about 3 GB i was impressed about that but this one 
 is much better.... much levels cool stuff and so... too bad it doesnt have multiplayer but the game 
 is really addictive. The puzzles werent the best thing but the action was reaaaaaly fun. Fighting 
 the ''bad guys'', using the weapons and all that is just impressive. I reccomend it to all players 
 and everybody who loved the movies about Indiana Jones :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheedakakamana
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 7, 2007 12:37 am PT
Review:  This game is full of action adventure and the thriller play of game make player fully involved 
 in it. Players Have Very Little Reviews About It I Will Like To Give This Outclass Game 10 out of 
 10.
  This game is full of action adventure and the thriller play of game make player fully involved 
 in it. Players Have Very Little Reviews About It I Will Like To Give This Outclass Game 10 out of 
 10.
  This game is full of action adventure and the thriller play of game make player fully involved 
 in it. Players Have Very Little Reviews About It I Will Like To Give This Outclass Game 10 out of 
 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joneswe01
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 30, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  best action/puzzle games in a long time.
  
  You start off in a place called celeyon and you work your way from there across 10 different locations. 
 There are about 5 or 6 levels in each location that are each really long so at least it will take 
 you about a week to complete. There are also certain levels where you're guarenteed to die several 
 times which is sometimes very annoying but it's still really fun. You also have plenty of things 
 to do in each level so you can't just skip a section and hope to get away with it as you are more 
 than likely to miss something highly important. All these things make the game really realistic 
 (Despite the Magic) and makes you just wan't to keep playing. It's so addictive.
  
  If you're looking for a decent action game that will take you more than 10 minutes to complete 
 then Indiana Jones and the emperors tomb is the one for you. Check it out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamingprincess
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 31, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  i can be hard on a game. or a game can be hard on me. This time it was hard on me in a good way. 
 I dont enjoy anything thats to hard to get the moves down pat on. i Enjoy streight forward missions. 
 This game has it all. you have a great story line and wonderful pretty grafics. i bought it on 
 the word from a friend and was not dissapointed. Its a non-stop action game. you dont get to rest 
 for a second. You have to literally think on your feet, master a whip and your jumping abilities. 
 I loved laura Croft Legend. Action packed. in your quest you Must find your rewards. Some only 
 allow you to move forward, Dont find them your stuck. A host of creatures to kill and outsmart. 
 some seem immpossible to defeat but u must. plus they give you a time limit in order to do it. 
 find bridges that are invisable with out a certain reward. may twists and turns and always fantastic 
 graphics. its fun and fustrating at the same time. you Must Complete it. the end is as great as 
 the Beginning. I really recommend it for anyone that enjoys a Fun great action FPS. Oh and theres 
 a girl trying to impress indy also love is in bloom. cute. Dialoge is also sweet. Not Boring at 
 all. really try it youll like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zalzargahoughan
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 16, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: It is a combination of fist-fights, gun-fights, problem solving, and jumping puzzles. 
 The fist fights are very satisfying. Grabbing someone by the throat and then slamming them into 
 a wall; smacking somebody with a shovel, then over the head for a nice finishing move; grabbing 
 your opponents punch then kicking him and ending his sad life with an upper cut to break his neck; 
 whipping the gun out of their hands then again around their neck as you pull them back where their 
 face meets your fist. This stuff isn't too hard or especially deep, but it iis quite fun!
  The guns are handled in a way, as to make the ammo, very valuable. In other words, you will tend 
 to conserve your ammo for difficult battles and desperate situations. There is a fair amount of 
 weapons in the game, and they all sound fine and handle well. There is also a little bit of sword 
 fighting in the game, though this is not as cool, and is more forgettable, than it should of been. 
 There are also quite a few puzzles and miscellaneous battles. These tend to be kinda hard. But 
 they are fun, and you shouldnt get stuck on them for to long. The biggest downside to the gameplay 
 is that the controls take a long time to get used to and feel a little constricting.
  
  Graphics: They're okay. They actually look real good at times. The facial models look good, and 
 the characters animate well enough. but several clipping serious clipping issues, and other things 
 that just don't look right. Some of the cut scenes are downright ugly and rushed. Some of the enemies 
 are used dozens of times, so there is little variety with-in a level, but there is great variety 
 in the fact that nearly every level has its own set of Sound: Sound effect are good, but nothing 
 to right home about. As for the music, prepare to hear that good old Indiana Jones theme, which 
 isn't a bad thing, it just isn't original. The voice acting however, isn't so great. But at least 
 they got the most important guy right, Indiana Jones. The guy isn't Harrison Ford, but he does 
 a good enough job. It's just that they didn't cast the rest of the voice actors quite as well. 
 Still, they don't sound horrible, they just could have been better.
  
  Value: This is a fairly long game. It took me a good 15- 20 hours to beat it. But after I had, 
 I didn't feel much desire to go through it a second time. One of those games that you beat once 
 and set on the shelf or give to a friend. The tried to give the game some replayability by the 
 hidden artifacts and different difficulty settings but, for me at least, that wasn't enough to 
 justify a second play through.
  
  Conclusion: If You are an Indiana Jones fan and are looking to buy a game staring your favorite 
 archeologist, than I would recommend this game. There are some control issues that can be very 
 difficult to get used to. But if you can sludge through these first 30 minutes or so, you'll find 
 an enjoyable game that is very satisfying and at times quite challenging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Defender_502
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 10, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Indiana Jones and the Emperors Tomb on the PC could have been a great continuation of the Indiana 
 Jones film franchise. Unfortunately though, LucasArts made this particular game unnecessarily difficult. 
 This seemed to be a trend, as Indiana Jones' Greatest Adventures on the SNES was also difficult 
 without a purpose.
  
  Indiana Jones and the Emperors Tomb was one of those games in which the player must execute 
 a series of multiple jumps and swing from numerous chains with pinpoint accuracy in order to advance 
 through the levels. If Indy is only slightly off-center while jumping, or if the player doesnt 
 hit the keys just right when swinging between chains, Indy will l miss the mark, and fall back 
 to the beginning of the jumping/swinging stages. Couple this frustration with enemies with one-shot 
 kill capabilities, and Indiana Jones and the Emperors Tomb becomes infuriating. All the precision 
 jumping/swinging reminded me of the old-school NES games which were also unnecessarily difficult.
 
  
  I thought this would be a cool game, it featured Indiana Jones, and the player got to battle Nazi 
 hordes. Some aspects of the game were done well, the voice actor for Indiana Jones sounds close 
 enough to Harrison Ford, and the locales in which the player maneuvered Indy were all nicely rendered. 
 Indy of course came equipped with his trusty whip and revolver, though ammunition for the revolver 
 and all the firearms in general, was sorely limited. The fistfights were pretty cool, if lengthy. 
 Enough variety was built in that Indy wasnt relegated to one punch/one kick.
  
  The controls of this game were something else. LucasArts should have taken a page from Eidos Interactive, 
 and borrowed the controls from Lara Croft. Indy moves fairly well when in the open, but put him 
 against a wall or in a corner, and hell keep facing towards the wall when youre trying to move 
 him away from the wall. This is irritating when youre just trying to move him through the level, 
 and downright infuriating if youre in the middle of a battle. At least the firearms auto-aimed 
 themselves, which was a nice bone that LucasArts threw the player, especially due to the lack of 
 ammunition. The player was required to move Indy through the water in various stages, and the swim 
 controls were terrible to say the least.
  
  Fortunately a code was available for unlimited health/ammo, which really helps out, since falls 
 resulting from missing a jump or chain would often result in death. While it was cool to duke it 
 out with the Nazis and other enemies, using Indys fists to settle a problem was often time-consuming, 
 so having all the ammo necessary for the pistols and machine guns helped clear the enemies more 
 efficiently.
  
  What saved this game in the end was a good storyline, and the novelty of playing as Indiana Jones. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaganzone
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 6, 2006 11:25 pm PT
Review:  I got this game after 3 years of its release , as i was looking for some adventure game and it 
 is quite a good game.
  
  Graphics :- 9/10 ,graphics are sharp and crisp and even better then this years games
  
  Sound 
 :- 9/10 ,sound is also good, really make u feel the environment .Sound also conveys suspense and 
 surprises effectively
  
  Game Play :- 10/10 ,u have got many good weapons, combat system is quite satisfying. Only thing it 
 requires is practise for controlling, might take 30 to 45 min to get use to. Here u get good level 
 designing and some good puzzles. Indy can jump, climb ,swing, swim, shimmy, do side rolls, hand to hand 
 combat ,some combo (s) . There are twist in the story though it has got linear story.
  
  OVERALL :- 8.8/10Even after 3 years it is a good game and most likely to be appreciated by those 
 looking for good (deep and long) adventure and other Indiana jones fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: urluckyday
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 30, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  I came into this game a huge fan of all of the Indy games ever released for the PC. I couldn't 
 wait to start another adventure with the man of advenure himself.
  I first noticed the graphics. For today's standards, they were sub-par, but I got this game 3 years 
 after the release date, so I let it go. Besides, they were acceptable.
  Indy's voice has always been of great concern to me. I loved his voice actor in Fate of Atlantis 
 and Infernal Machine, but this time it was different. It was actually pretty good, but not quite 
 as good as the previous actor. All the sound effects were in place, and good to go.
  The gameplay was very different than previous Indy games, but that's not always a bad thing. While 
 I do enjoy solving puzzles with Indy, it is good to see a more combat based game, but don't worry, 
 there are still tons of little puzzles to solve.
  Overall, this is a great game that any adventure game fan or Indy fan should pick up. Hopefully, 
 they keep making more like this or Infernal Machine.
  
  Sorry if this review is a little short, but just go play this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doom_x107
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 2, 2006 11:58 pm PT
Review:  this game is great fun going around with cool weapons like the trusty pistol and the whip for swinging 
 around (and don't mistake it for a snake) .
  you can get shotguns and spearguns aswell as a whole bunch of other guns.
  there are heaps of 
 levels guess what there are 59 of them and there long!
  it is hard with the last level of them you have to vs a boss like the kraken even a giant crocodile!.
 
  there are different chapters and in which you get a peice of a speical artifact.
  there are three normal artifacts in each chapter and you can earn them by going through alot of 
 things like traps. 
  you can also swim and can get oxygen tanks for more air. you have to be careful for the sharks 
 and crocodiles.
  there are great puzzles and awesome levels and someone suvives the evil croc that just missed indy!
 
  great long game that would take ages to finish but it sure is possible good graghics and sound 
 there are lots of items able to be picked up like grenades and medikits.
  there are cool driving missions where you shoot on top of a car.
  there is a little bit of sam 
 fishers stealth kind of stuff but thats 3% of the game mates.
  there are very hard missions like having to kill the goddamn kraken!
  there are annoying missions 
 aswell when youre somewhere with the evil sharks that keep eating you and getting your weapons 
 sometimes.
  this game would be hard to make and the graphics are down because of how long the game is.
  you 
 can get machine guns like th KA-47 and the MP-40. there are also sniping and some parts are so 
 hard that the machine gets realy hot half way through it!
  as i said this is long and all the boss fights the last boss especialy because of the black dragon 
 ouch! the fire it breathes and how enormasly big its teeth are god this can get pretty scary sometimes!
 
  well so this is a fun G8+ game which is fun going around shooting and letting guys fall in water 
 and get eaten so this is awesome and fun but hard and long so you should get this game if you want 
 but you dont have to.
  
  written by doom_x107 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjhrules
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 11, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  After playing "Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade" and "Indiana Jones and the Fate of Atlantis" 
 I had high hopes for this game. But it proved to be just as disgusting as "the infernal machine"
 
  
  In the earlier game, logic thinking was the key to success. In this game thinking as little as 
 possible will bring you success .My only thought about this game is that Lucas Arts wants to get 
 people used to idiotic games because that is what the future holds. 
  
  So instead of amazing Indy and Monkey Island games will get **** like this. This game must have 
 been very cheap to make but still it will sell much because of the earlier Indy games. Just sad...
 
  
  Don't give Lucas Arts money for this game. Stay away for your own good!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahg2426
Rating: 3.1
Date: Feb 11, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  This game uses the Buffy engine and they didn't change any thing. If you put Buffy and this onto 
 two t. v. s right next to each other, you would see the exact same thing with a diferent coat of 
 paint. Both games use the exact same controler setup and have the same moves. Both games use a 
 and x for a three hit button mashing combo. In Buffy, you have a squirt gun full of holy water 
 that you can refill by using a fountain full of holy water, Indi can use a fountain full of water 
 yo refill his cantine. By the way, it's the exact same fountain, just a little smaller. The exact 
 same thing happens when you pick up a shovel in both games, it is the exact same shovel, and I 
 don't mean the shovels look alike, I mean it's the exact same shovel from head to toe. There just 
 takeing the name and puting a peice of crap together thinking that people will buy it. I mean the 
 stole the Buffy game, changed some collers and called it something new, the most obvious thing 
 is watching Indi shimmey across a wall or a poll, Then watch buffy do it, they didn't change any 
 thing about it, meaning it is exactly the same. Your just a different person shimmeying the exact 
 same way. Overall the gameplay is just stolen and boring, along with the story. Overall ahg gives 
 this discrace to Indiana Jones, a 0.1 percent out of 10. And the only reason i'm being that generous 
 is because it has to get some rating, I would give it a 0, but to do that it would have to not 
 be a game. Although this comes very close to doing just that. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yodax007
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 5, 2006 5:44 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome!! You have to buy it after you really get into the game, but it's worth it! 
 This is the first game I have played that has a REALLY good storyline and that doesn't screw up 
 on the gameplay. The fighting moves are seamless, and it isn't to hard to master. Gameplay: 9/10
 
  
  The graphics are also something to brag about. You can see the detail on the characters faces extremely 
 well, and all the enemies seem to have had equal time put into their appearance. Graphics: 10/10
 
  
  The scores of music on this game make it seem like a real Indiana Jones movie. The music changes 
 to a fast paced, ominous sounding beat when you are in trouble, and the sound effects are what 
 real people would do when a guy in a hat jumps down from a ledge and shoots you. Sound:10/10
  
  If you just download the demo, you are missing out on one of the best games ever. New gamers 
 should practice a little before buying this game, it can be a little tough sometimes. Value: 9/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CantTouchThis12
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 26, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game to play, especially for Indiana Jones fans. It's really fun and there are 
 a lot of twists and turns in the game. The levels are not hard, but like any Indiana Jones game, 
 you also have to use your brain to play the game :P.
  The game is very fun and the storyline is great, a classic Indiana Jones. I would say it is definitely 
 worth playing and don't hesitate buying it. I, personally this the gameplay is great and pretty 
 good for an Indiana Jones game. (gameplay = 9/10)
  This game has absolutely excellent graphics! You could actually see the characters' faces very 
 well and clear and all the objects are realistic-looking. This game's graphics are one of the best 
 reasons to buy and play this game (graphics = 10/10)
  The sound is also very great and all the voices are very clearly heard. You could clearly hear 
 any sound and the music shows when you are in trouble, or when you have succeeded in something. 
 Overall, the sound is excellent and I can't think of anything that can improve it for now. (sound 
 = 10/10)
  From what you read by now, you only heard good things about this game. Well, it has one flaw. You 
 can get bored of this game pretty easily, even before you finish it, because it can be very difficult. 
 For example, I got stuck on one level, and I quit for almost one month. Of course, you don't get 
 bored of it right away, but you will one day. (value = 7/10)
  I, personally think this game is great, even if it has some flaws. I recommend this game to anybody 
 who likes action/adventure games and who likes to think to get yourself out of trouble. I give 
 this game two thumbs up! (reviewer's tilt = 9/10)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: akkgfk
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 14, 2005 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Indiana Jones and the Emperor's Tomb is a lot of fun but can be very frustrating. It's your basic 
 3-D, running, jumping, shooting, puzzle-solving kind of game. But it's Indiana Jones, so hey - 
 it's cool!
  
  Story: You're Indy and you're trying to help out some guy and chick recover a relic but of course, 
 you get double-crossed. The story unfolds as you play. When you complete a certain part of the 
 game, you'll get to see different videos. The videos are rendered, not MPEGs so they match well 
 with the rest of the game.
  
  Graphics: Very good. Characters have a lot of detail (even Indy's scar on his chin can be seen) 
 and the animation is great. Make sure you have a decent video card and the latest driver installed 
 so you don't experience any disappointing crashes.
  
  Sound: Awesome. I normally turn off music in games, because it makes me completely insane. But 
 not in this game. The soundtrack smoothly matches what's going on in the game. The actor that does 
 the voice for Indy is very convincing, but the Chinese accents are pretty bad.
  
  Puzzles: Elementary. You won't need any hints to solve these. In fact they're so easy, they almost 
 don't need to be in the game.
  
  Gameplay: You'll enjoy using your whip, revolver and a bunch of other weapons. The fighting scenarios 
 are great, except for the fact that you have to shoot someone 3 times before they die. Movement 
 is relatively easy but as in most of these types of games, when you need to jump and swing around 
 the environment, the game is very unforgiving if you don't time your controls perfectly. There's 
 no savegame feature except for at the conclusion of each level. So if you're almost at the end 
 of the level after 20 minutes of painstaking play and you die, you have to start over at the beginning 
 of the level. This is most frustrating part of the game.
  
  Bottom Line: Definitely worth playing. Though it can be repetitive in some parts, it moves along 
 rather nicely. Though it's challenging, you can progress through the game quick enough to keep 
 you interested. It's difficulty doesn't start out simple and then become impossible. It's pretty 
 consistent which makes it more enjoyable.
  
  PROS: * Great video & sound effects
  * Awesome music
  * Holds your interest with constant progression
  * Seems like a real Indy 
 adventure
  
  CONS: * No save-game feature will make you angry
  * Game objectives sometimes aren't clear
  * Puzzles are too easy
  * No replay value 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharpie125
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2005 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Williams' famous piece sounds through your speakers. A resounding crack is heard after Indy finishes 
 through with a Nazi. This is Indiana Jones and the Emperor's Tomb.
  The three movies of our favourite whip swingin', revolver tootin' archaeologist with the fedora 
 is back. This time, Indy is exploring worlds and beating up enemies, looking for the mysterious 
 'Heart of the Dragon'.
  I personally loved this game. It's not perfect, I'd agree, but it entirely satisfies to the heart. 
 Some of the graphic work is a little shaky, but most of the game is another famous Jones adventure. 
 
  In my opinion, the combat was one of the best things in this game. After playing a few minutes 
 of hand-to-hand combat, I fell in love with it. Before playing The Emperor's Tomb, I had played 
 Bungie's Oni. I completely loved the whole notion of combining combat moves to get better sequences. 
 And when I found that the ET had the same thing, a gun wasn't good enough for me anymore. Using 
 a table leg as a baseball bat, or a even a shovel, as seen in the Last Crusade, Indy is able to 
 take down enemies in style.
  People have complained about camera issues during combat, and so on, but I actually liked it. When 
 the camera tracks movement and 'darts' away from Jones, half revolving, it gave me a feeling of 
 movie goodness. To survey the whole fight that plays before you. 
  Though it isn't a multiplayer game, it's great fun for a few guys to comment about and watch. My 
 friend and I had cracked a few jokes while playing ET about gameplay, and so on. 
  In conclusion, the Emperor's Tomb has a variety of logical puzzles, some memorable combat sequences, 
 and a pretty great adventure. Perfect for a Jones fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Horus92
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2005 1:57 pm PT
Review:  In Indiana Jones and the Emperors Tomb, the graphics are much better than the ones in the Infernal 
 Machine, (Indy's previous adventure) showing high detail and quality. The combat sequences in the 
 game are improved as well, since in the last game, Indy used mostly guns, while in this game he 
 does also, but we also see the true Indiana Jones' way fighting, with punches and combos. Although 
 simple, they are satisfying, as said correctly by the Gamespot review. The story, sadly, is much 
 better in the Infernal Machine, since this story is pretty simple, while the Infernal Machine's 
 is much complex and with a right twist in the story. The music in the game makes you feel great, 
 since you fight and jump and whip with the classical Indiana Jones music (The Raiders' March) As 
 I said before, it is a great game, and highly recommendable. I am waiting anxiously for the new 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthragar
Rating: 5.2
Date: Oct 28, 2005 1:53 pm PT
Review:  repetive game. and i own it cuz' my grandparents bought it 4 me. i can't sell it cuz the case is 
 messed up. its not full out crap but i beat it and i must say this. PLAY HITMAN: CONTRACTS INSTEAD. its 
 more fun and once u hit first-person it stays that way. SO PLAY AS AGENT 47 CUZ' THE INDY GAMES 
 SUCK RIGHT NOW AND I WANT A GOOD INDIANA JONES GAME. so u dont need this game just buy a hitman 
 game or red dead revolver instead. youll have a much better time trust me on this one. however renting 
 it might make you happy cuz u dont have to be stuck with it like me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: epross
Rating: 2.4
Date: Jan 25, 2005 4:28 am PT
Review:  I tried to play this game, but the controls are so badly laid out and conceived that it is going 
 to the bottom of my deepest closet. Too bad, it looked promising, but when you can't even get Indy 
 to run in a straight line -- what's the point? This is just a big waste of time.
  The graphics have lots of artifacts and are choppy even on high end machine.
  Combat is horrible, 
 just a click fest.
  Can only save autmatically at check points.
  Confusing and pointless level design. Too easy to get confuse, or maybe is it just that I can't 
 get Indy to go where I want to? Too much hunt for the pixel sweet spot to get something (anything!) 
 to happen
  Pointless (have I said that)
  Stupid
  Dumb
  Frustrating (that's probably the worst part of it)
  I'll consider revising my opinion if I can 
 ever get the controls working to my liking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toocooldragon
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 2, 2004 7:06 am PT
Review:  When I got this game I totally ignored the fact that this game is pure mediocre, I find trusting 
 people who played this game and reviewed them the hard way, its a good thing that the price was 
 pretty low. 
  There are just too many levels that doesn't need to be put on this game. From Ceylon to Prague 
 and then China, although the game offers 65 levels don't expect most of it in China. The Controls 
 are too hard, storyline is too lazy, and the cutscenes are just too ugly. 
  I don't think this game is even finished, I don't even feel like finishing the game because its 
 too repetive. at least the sound was pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BentSea
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 17, 2004 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Highs: You get to be Indiana Jones, the greatest adventurer of all time, you get to swing on the 
 bull whip pick up your hat after getting it knocked of in a brawl and kick but by punching Nazis 
 and kicking undead butt.
  
  Lows: Almost everything else.
  
  Best Played by: People with high tolerance for repetition, high thresholds of pain, and who hate 
 themselves.
  
  Indiana Jones has a long history of good things. He is who we all wish we could really be. James 
 Bond is too pretentious, I dont think anyone who plays as Laura Croft wants to be her, and Indy 
 is just perfect. A mix of adventurer and educated class, the professor with the daring to take 
 a gun and whip on an archeological dig with him. Its ironic that Indiana Jones and the Emperors 
 Tomb mimics so accurately the frustration a paleontologist must feel at doing the same thing day 
 in and day out, tediously repeating identical tasks over and over again throughout the duration 
 of their career. Its so easy to talk about the bad when its as frustrating as the bad in Emperors 
 Tomb, but there is a great deal that was done right in this game.
  
  Almost everything Indy does makes for fun gameplay. There is a moderate variety in the enemies, 
 though within a level they felt rather too similar for comfort. You really get to fight everything 
 that Indiana Jones is against, starting with poachers and looters, Nazis, funny Asians in elaborate 
 warrior getups, and finally some seriously troubled undead. Everyone can and should identify with 
 wanting to fight all of those things, especially undead, I personally am with Indy in my anti-undead 
 stance on the issue. Particularly when fighting with the style flair and broken jaw dealing fun 
 of the dual fisted love that is Indiana Jones.
  
  Fighting is wonderful, even though there are some odd inconsistencies. One of the most striking 
 was how the revolver and whip or a machete were less effective than if you could easily get right 
 up close and knock someone down with raw fists. There were some other things that seemed odd, but 
 nothing glaring, only minor clipping problems, etc. None of the glitches will bother anywhere near 
 enough to break you from the illusion that you are the behind kicking explorer.
  
  The combat system shames everything else about Emperors Tomb and deserves a good game to shine 
 in. Punches are thrown with weight, enemies rebound and the brawling ends up being really fun. 
 Beating people down while holding them in headlocks and slamming their heads into walls or breaking 
 bottles over their heads make for great entertainment and fun gameplay. You can never get enough 
 of breaking heads. Well, different heads. It really bites breaking the same ones over and over.
 
  
  Thats ultimately the meat of Indiana Jones and the Emperors Tombs problem, is the countless 
 repetition. There is a very limited save system that auto saves at the end of every level chunk, 
 each chunk being a minimum of about ten minutes and as many as about 20 for a skilled player. Well, 
 ten to twenty minutes of getting everything right after all the fudges you are guaranteed to make, 
 being human and all. Even on easy the save system is no more forgiving than any other level of 
 difficulty.
  
  All of Emperors Tombs other problems are relatively small but they only seem to compound on top 
 of the pain of the save system. There are artistic decisions and there are bad decisions, and creating 
 a feature of the game that punishes the people who buy it as harshly as that does is a bad decision. 
 The reload feature proves harsh and unforgiving and unavailable in a tight spot where you know 
 youre going to die without either quitting the game or getting yourself killed and watching the 
 camera rotate around your corpse a few times till it shows the option to start the level that just 
 killed you all over again.
  
  These painful features arent even taken into consideration of the level design. There are levels 
 of horrible frustration with a cut-scene and a little mood setting running another cut-scene and 
 then an extraordinarily long sequence that is unlike anything youve done the rest of the game. 
 You will, with a capitol w, die many, many times on this level. You will mess up and know that 
 there will be no avoiding death. The certainty of death is absolute. You will be forced to wait 
 till you die to restart the level, because its either that, or exiting to the menu, and going 
 through the painfully long, tedious, un-skipable menu system with all of its very pretty and tomb 
 like Indiana Jones flavored animations that were very cool the first time but will drive you insane 
 if you ever try to reload the game that way ever. Then you must skip the two cut-scenes again, 
 and not accidentally die in the thirty-second waste of time before the actual challenge begins.
 
  
  The other problems with the game proved equally irritating. Its still hard to condemn this game 
 completely though because a really fun game really does hide there under all of the pain and torment. 
 The style and flair of the Indiana Jones movie shines constantly during the segments of the game 
 where everything is fluid and well designed. That is the saddest thing about this game.
  
  Its just not right for such a quality experience to be bogged down beyond the point of having 
 irritating flaws and into the level of being useless as a game. Rent it, play it for five minutes 
 and then return it and you will always believe you have played a fun game that captures what makes 
 Indiana Jones cool. You will miss everything that makes this game painful and unpleasant. Under 
 no circumstances should you buy this game, there just is no way you will find enough good to outweigh 
 the bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronsia
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 4, 2003 6:00 pm PT
Review:  I like Indy, but I still can't understand why Lucasarts is not doing any more graphic adventure 
 about him. This action game is a game from the past. Technically is poor, controls are horrible 
 and the camera is one of the worst cameras I've seen in games. That issues make the game seem worst 
 than it really is, but there's also the "savegame" problem. This game should have been a good rival 
 to Lara Croft 2 or 3 years ago, but nowadays it's just another mediocre game. Yes, some may find 
 hours of entertainment. And yes, it's INDY. Because if that game was not an INDY game, nobody would 
 be writting about it. So, let's hope Lucasarts work better next time. Jedi Knight II is the only 
 one GAME they've done since Grim Fandango. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e_boulanger
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 30, 2003 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Since last year, I am afraid of buying new games. Not because I fear to buy crap, but because I 
 fear buying a game that would not run adequately on my old PC (I have a Dell Pentium III 500Mhz 
 but with a Radeon 9700 Pro) . I was quite impress when I played the demo of Indiana Jones that I 
 decided to buy it, and frankly, I am glad I did. Ok, let's talk about the good point:
  
  1. Very beautiful graphic. Runs in 1024 x 768 as fast as the 640 x 480 (thanks ATI and LucasArts) . 
 Nice texture and visual effect.
  2. Sounds is also impressive. From the ambient sounds to the voice acting.
  3. Character movement 
 beautifully rendered.
  4. Music is everything you would expect for an Indiana Jones Games/Movies.
  5. Very fun to play 
 Indy and beat the hell out of every bad guy.
  
  Now for the down side:
  1. On a PC with a gamepad pro, the character responds a little fast. When you are on the edge of 
 a cliff or when you are running, Indy may change its course because you press a little too hard 
 on the left of the gamepad. I guess I should buy a new gamepad.
  2. Load times are long (I mean long) .
  3. When you dies you begin from the start of the current 
 level/section (see Long load times) .
  4. Copy protection that force you to have the CD in your drive, even if you have to install the 
 1.2 Gb of the game on your HD. When are they going to learn that these copy protection are just 
 a pain. Recommend getting the crack to play with No CD (but buy the game, I think it's worth it) .
 
  
  Conclusion: good Action/Adventure game. If you are not sure, play the demo. It will give you a 
 good idea of what to expect.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcomm
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 25, 2003 7:51 am PT
Review:  I am thoroughly disappointed with Emporer's Tomb. Having played every Tomb Raider and all previous 
 Indy games, I was really looking forward to this one. The graphics are impressive and the locations 
 are cool. But there are so many problems with this game that I have a problem recommending it for 
 any but the absolute die-hard indy fans.
  
  First, the controls terrible. The PC is NOT a console, yet it plays like a console game. Note to 
 developer: Tomb Raider controls worked great on PC. Indy's controls? Not so much.
  
  Next, there are way too many times that the camera goes to Indy's back when he is up against a 
 wall. How are you supposed to see where the heck to do the critical jump? Oh, that's right. You 
 just plummet to your death and have to...
  
  Start the flippin' level over again! There is NO SAVE GAME, except for the auto-saves. Hellllloo.... 
 What WERE these people thinking? Repeat after me. The PC is NOT a console. The PC is NOT a console.
 
  
  Difficulty? Some of the levels are absurdly difficult. I am stuck on one of the last levels where 
 you are being chased by the bad guy driving a destructive vehicle. You have to time your whip swings 
 and jumps over crumbling pits or have to restart the level... again.. and again.. and again. You 
 get the point. Nonsense. If the controls were more like Lara's, this task would probably be easier. 
 But since it is the controls that hamper the gameplay, it's really not a question of skill. It's 
 about mastering faulty code. 
  
  After 40 or more attempts at this level, I have given up. The game has gone back in the box and 
 is sitting on my shelf. At this point, I don't care how the game ends. Thumbs down to The Collective 
 and LucasArts for such shoddy work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Milino
Rating: 4.3
Date: Apr 24, 2003 5:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is totally frustrating and irritating. If you want aggrevation buy this game. The controls 
 are extremly bad. Indy moves so fast you can hardly keep him under control. One micro movment of 
 the mouse & he's off a cliff to die. He can't swim either. He's all over the place. You can't get 
 the camera behind him when he is facing a wall, so do not get caught behind a door facing the wall 
 with some nazi beating the hell out of you, cause your going to lose. You cannot save your game 
 either. The save points are built in so if you die before you get to a save point you have to play 
 the whole thing over from the last save point & in some places watch the whole cut scene play over. 
 A simple thing like Run, Jump, Swing & Swing again should be easy if the controls were resonsive, 
 BUT THEY ARE'NT. The graphics are good & the sounds are good. This game could have been great but 
 the fatal flaus of the controls & no way to choose when to save, make this game totally frustrating. 
 Give me back Indy & the Infernal Machine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcadius
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 16, 2003 11:23 am PT
Review:  I've been a fan of Indy's since Raiders of the Lost Ark screened. And being a serious PC Gamer, 
 I own almost all Indiana Jones Games that Lucas Arts has published. And thus, based on previous 
 experiences and setting aside some serious camera flaws, this game is the best of them all and 
 a cool one to play as well. The sounds, for the people who have judged them harshly, come directly 
 from the movie descibed above. It was wonderful when I let go a few shots from my revolver, that 
 I remembered that bang, it was from my favorite Indiana Jones movie. So if you like Indiana Jones, 
 you are sure to enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ackbar
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 5, 2003 1:37 am PT
Review:  I don't know why these guys are complaining about the save fuction.
  the last thing to complain about is the save fuction its perfect, these guy just want to stand 
 up aigan at the same place as thay died.
  Graphics did much improved since infernal machine, control system is very difficult compared to 
 infernal machine but is still usable. Particularly the camera movement with the mouse you cant 
 seem to make the camera only view behind him it goes all the way around and is quite awkward.
 
  you better buy a controler along whit the game if you don't have one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RPGuy96
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 3, 2003 5:07 am PT
Review:  Not a bad game, but with a fatal flaw. Where is the save function? Must PC gamers be content with 
 ports from console systems? Save Early, Save Often is the watchword of the PC gamer. The inability 
 of the player to save the game at any point certainly creates artificial tension, but it also creates 
 real frustration. 
  This is an outstanding game in terms of graphics, sound, and gameplay. However, even the most interesting 
 level becomes boring, when the player is forced to replay it repeatedly, due to dieing late in 
 the section. If a level is especially challenging, it destroys any sense of accomplishment, and 
 turns the game into a chore. 
  When I buy a PC game, I want the features of a PC game. If Lucasarts had added a save function 
 to Indiana Jones and the Emperors Tomb, I would have had only the highest praise for the game. 
 As it is, Im already burnt out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrizzlyJim
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 1, 2003 9:28 pm PT
Review:  Looks like somebody rushed this game before it was ready... Unlike the Infernal Machine, there 
 are no saves, only auto saves. You get killed or make a mistake and you have to start all over 
 again. After awhile, that gets real old... Indy, on PC, moves way too fast and is difficult to 
 control at times. The music is good and the graphics are excellent. Indy's fighting abilities are 
 terrific. But, again, he moves way too fast! The controls are a little flawed... It's difficult 
 at times to make him swim and the camera angles really screw you up when he gets near a wall. Now, 
 if the designers only slowed him down and added the save feature as in Infernal Machine, you'd 
 see a lot higher ratings. I'm a bit disappointed with the game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andyivey
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 1, 2003 4:45 pm PT
Review:  By and large I agree with Gamespot's review of the game, but I feel more strongly that the lack 
 of a dynamic save system hurts this game. The controls can be a little loose sometimes too, but 
 not being able to save your progress immediately after completing some complicated jumping puzzles 
 makes for a lot of tedious rehash. Espeically when one bad control slip sends you plummeting to 
 your doom.
  
  Nevertheless, this is the best Indiana Jones game for any platform to date, but I still think they 
 can do better! If LucasArts patches the game to include a better save system, then I could easily 
 increase my review score. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
