-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Industry Giant II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/industrygiant2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 11, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.8
Critic Score: 7.4, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 157 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: JoWood Productions
Genre: Business Strategy
Date:     Aug 30, 2002 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Industry Giant II is ultimately a graphical front end for a clumsy and frustrating spreadsheet. 
 

 1997's Industry Giant was a grand, sprawling business game brought over from Austria by the now 
 defunct Interactive Magic. Now its sequel has landed on North American shores, courtesy of its 
 developer-turned-publisher JoWood, and the sequel has even more grandeur, breadth, and business, 
 though not in equal measure. In fact, Industry Giant II may be a bit too broad for its own good. 
           A mouse click brings up floating information screens.    

 In Industry Giant II, you make money by stringing together the elements of a long process that stretches 
 from harvesting raw materials all the way to selling finished goods from a retail outlet. You even 
 set up and manage transportation between each of the steps along the way. For instance, if you 
 want to sell cars, it's not enough to simply build an automobile factory and a car dealership. 
 Instead, you have to mine bauxite and ore, raise cattle for your leather seats, and use petroleum 
 to make rubber for your tires, among other things. You also have to build and manage the train 
 routes that carry the goods around and the warehouses where they're stored.   

  As you meet the demand for different goods in a city, the city grows and demand increases. You 
 can even spend your money building structures that encourage faster city growth. The sequel adds 
 a new feature: the accumulation of luxury points based on how well you're doing. As you accumulate 
 luxury points, which also serve as a means of keeping score in some scenarios, you can buy increasingly 
 lavish homes to place on the map. Random weather and economic events can shake things up from time 
 to time. In some scenarios, you'll have to compete against other businesses that will cut into 
 your market share by selling the same goods you are. As time passes (the game includes 80 years 
 of industrial technology, from 1900 to 1980) , new goods and industries are invented, expanding 
 your options.   

  The main appeal of Industry Giant II is the remarkable breadth of products: donuts, beer, purses, 
 steel, hair dryers, comic books, lawn mowers, tissues, calendars, accordions, toothbrushes (regular 
 or electric) , plastic patio furniture, telephones, jeans, eggs, barbecue grills, inflatable boats, 
 summer clothes, cotton, Christmas trees, lumber, and, of course, garden gnomes. Looking over the 
 products, you may notice (if you didn't already realize) that Industry Giant II wasn't developed 
 in the United States. Tennis shoes are sports shoes, harmonicas are mouth organs, wheelbarrows 
 are pushcarts, action figures are action heroes, sleds are sledges, and, unfortunately for American 
 sports fans, soccer balls are called footballs. Also, the most profitable items you can produce 
 with a printing press are board games, a popular industry in Germany, but a struggling niche market 
 in the United States.           New vehicles and products come along as time passes.    

 If you like business simulations, you'll probably find all this variety intriguing. Unfortunately, 
 each of these industries is handled so abstractly that you might as well be dealing in "thingamajigs," 
 "gewgaws," and "doodads." For instance, publishing a newspaper consists only of cutting down trees, 
 processing the lumber at a sawmill, using the grain wood to make paper at a paper mill, and then 
 making newspapers at a printing press before selling them at a bookstore. There are only the mechanics 
 of manufacturing with none of the important nuances of publishing, such as circulation or advertising. 
 In Industry Giant II, a newspaper is just a stack of pages, and the process of creating it is no 
 different from the process of making canned fruit, skateboards, or aluminum ladders.   

  Managing your business is awkward at best. Matching supply and demand requires a lot of counting, 
 clicking around and checking different buildings, and referring to reference screens. Because of 
 this, the gameplay consists of working out the details of your elaborate industrial infrastructure 
 while the game is paused. You can change settings for factory utilization and worker productivity 
 to manage the flow of goods, but there's no convenient way to know in advance how much or how little 
 of each product you need. When you add in the responsibility of setting up transportation routes 
 for individual vehicles and their cargo, the whole process becomes even more difficult.    

 
 Once everything is set up and running, there's not a lot to do until something goes wrong. As if 
 to keep you from getting bored, this happens fairly regularly in Industry Giant II, particularly 
 as your business empire expands. You can expect everything to grind to a halt because a factory 
 wasn't getting enough goods or because a warehouse was filled up with raw materials faster than 
 a factory could process them. Warehouse management is a key factor in managing your business, but 
 the process of taking control of your warehouses leaves a lot to be desired, even though JoWood 
 apparently promises to improve warehouse management in an upcoming expansion pack.           You're 
 in charge of transporting raw materials.    

 Industry Giant II requires a lot of micromanagement. And although one man's micromanagement might 
 be another man's deep gameplay, there are elements of Industry Giant II that would try even the 
 most meticulous accountant's patience. For instance, agricultural industries operate on a yearly 
 cycle, planting crops one month and then harvesting them later in the year. But unless you manually 
 turn each farm off during the fallow seasons, you'll pay full salaries and maintenance costs. Vehicle 
 routes are easy to set up, but when you have a breakdown, there's no way to tell what goods were 
 being carried and where they were going. There is no printed reference for the different vehicles 
 available, the goods required for various industries, or their profitability. Some of this can 
 be found on JoWood's Web site, but this sort of game demands more-thorough documentation than JoWood 
 has provided. Industry Giant II plays like a great big puzzle in which you can't tell whether the 
 pieces fit until after you've placed them.   

  The campaign consists of a series of scenarios with gradually increasing difficulty levels. Alternately, 
 you can play an "endless game," which is essentially a single-scenario skirmish game with your 
 choice of starting conditions, goals, and opponents. Industry Giant II doesn't model competition 
 very well. You can opt to share railroad tracks with another player, or you can buy his or her 
 company if you have enough cash. But otherwise, the only interaction with other players is the 
 reduced demand if you happen to be selling the same products in the same city, which doesn't make 
 for a very exciting multiplayer game.           Shiny new cars wait to be sold.    

 To its credit, Industry Giant II looks and sounds good. Because of the large icons that represent 
 every product, it's easy to tell at a glance what goods are stockpiled in a warehouse or being 
 carried on a train. If your factory is making engines, a large picture of an engine hovers over 
 it. If your farm is producing wool, a large ball of yarn floats over it. The interface is limited 
 to a tiny strip along the bottom of the screen, which apparently let JoWood focus more on the game's 
 graphics engine. A mouse click brings up floating displays for building structures, managing vehicles, 
 and tracking sales. The game's graphics themselves have a lot of charm and detail, from cars zipping 
 around on the road to the undulating surf along the beach. At the game's closest zoom level, the 
 graphics get a bit pixelated, but they still hold up. Zooming in and looking around will reveal 
 little surprises like zeppelins, dolphins, and geese. The sound is a tasteful collection of ambient 
 noises, including city traffic, twittering birds, and church bells, depending on where you're looking. 
   

  But games like this are really based on how gratifying it is to set up a business and watch it 
 run and grow, and all the cute little killer whales and hang gliders and fireworks displays can't 
 make up for the fact that Industry Giant II is ultimately a graphical front end for a clumsy and 
 frustrating spreadsheet.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: smartsurf
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 25, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is by far the most all inclusive tycoon game in the genre.
  
  Want to try your hand at being a farmer; a automobile tycoon; furniture mfg; oil company; toy industry 
 etc. etc. and etc. There are nearly 100 different industries to choose from and a fully dynamic 
 global and local economic engine that works on the simplicity of supply and demand, as well as 
 a particular county of your city's taste.
  
  In one city, one grocery store will have a high demand for fish and another will hate fish and 
 have no demand. You set the prices for low demand products by putting them on sale to attract customers, 
 but this is not where the fun begins.
  
  The fun begins in setting up your transportation network, laying roads for trucks, rail for trains, 
 as well as cargo ships, helicopters and airports, but make sure you don't go hog wild with all 
 of these goodies or your transportation costs will be more than the products retail selling price 
 and bankruptcy will be assured.
  
  You not only have to transport raw materials to your factories to create finished goods, but you 
 must transport your finished goods to your retail outlets where the money is actually made in the 
 sale of your products. Every other cost is production and transportation, all of which are red 
 ink.
  
  You can also set the prices of your finished goods in your retail outlets to either increase or 
 decrease demand, which can take a strain off of your production chain trying to keep up for high 
 demand products which can cause gridlock at the trains station, truck depot and God forbid, the 
 airports, where your airplanes will be either sitting on the runway costing you a fortune, or worse, 
 circling the airport waiting for one of the grid locked planes to take off. of course planes do 
 not have unlimited fuel and will eventually fall out of the sky costing you a pretty penny to replace.
 
  
  It is a sad testament to the gaming industry reviewers who give this game such a low rating (calling 
 it a spreadsheet with graphics) when nothing could be further from the truth. It is truly an extremely 
 well written, entertaining and fun game with 1000% replay value, as their are so many different 
 products you can bring to market, and you'll never play a game where you will even have 25% of 
 all the different products available, being manufactured and transported - the brain has it's limits 
 and even Donald Trump and Rockefeller could not micromanage a tenth of the industries in IG2 at 
 the same time.
  
  Bottom Line: If you like strategy games and tycoon games, this one is a must have. If you have 
 a 6800 or better NVIDIA card you'll need a patch made by one of the JoWood community for it to 
 work.
  
  I could go on for another ten paragraphs of all the features, but I believe what I have written 
 gives you an idea of the diverse fun-factor and replayability of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lhetre
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 9, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  Industry Giant 2 concentrates on the production of goods and their dispatching towards your own 
 stores. Selling goods in stores is the only way of making money, and you will spend your time painstakingly 
 organizing your different production places to answer the growing demand of cities. No stock options 
 here. 
  Organizing transportation is excessively easy, but waiting for the harvest to set the industry 
 in motion demands planning. Impassable mountains, deep rivers, large sees, scattered resources, 
 every map offers a different challenge. The missions are well balanced and varied, and there are 
 plenty of custom made maps on the net.
  In 2008 the Gold version, the original game plus the only add-on, is still a classic. Nevertheless 
 the game wasn't able to deal with the nVidia 6/7/8 series. Many Ati cards doesn't work either. 
 Sadly JoWood never put out a patch to solve the problem, so if you happen to have a nVidia go on 
 the JoWood forums and find the fix (some 700Mb to download !) made by a terribly kind player.
 
  This is a terribly engrossing game for business games fans, if only JoWood didn't forget its customers, 
 it would have been perfect.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hakanveli
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  i played more games. but ig2 + addon best games in this title. i'm playing now. it's classic. i 
 recommend for all strategy lovers. the game is no hard. but needed the clear and speed working 
 mind. i preffer transport giant still. 
  game description from offical site:
  "Industry Giant II - This brand-new business simulation starts in America at the dawn of the 20th 
 century. Trade and economy range from the humble beginnings of industrial mass production to the 
 age of information technology. The player, as in the predecessor IndustryGiant, again takes over 
 the super-entrepreneur's role. The game objective is to establish a powerful business company. 
 To do so, you will have to manage every aspect of the production cycle: Acquire resources, process 
 raw materials into marketable products, manage logistics and sales. Of course, Industry Giant 2 
 offers significantly more features than its predecessor." 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostDEFENDER
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2008 4:56 pm PT
Review:  This is a fun game, that incorperates the process of mining, agriculture, manufacturing, and transportation, 
 all into one!
  
  The single player mode: 
  Your goal: Ultimate domination of the US industries. Your plan: Inslave the entire human race, 
 and force them to plant and sell Christmas trees. The game's plan: To start you off with a set 
 amount of money, and train you in the ways of a salesman.
  
  This game has a certain ring to it. It allows you to create and sell everything from Fruit to Cars. 
 Some of these are Doughnuts, Garden Gnomes, Beer, Wine, Dolls, Plastic Cars, Action Figures, Toilet 
 Paper, Comic Books, Lawn Mowers, Power Tools, Detergents, Jeans, Nylon Clothes, and as mentioned 
 before, Christmas Trees.
  
  This game is played as a RTS style game, and has sevral different maps, with small citys, average 
 citys, and of course, large citys. There are deposites of many different materials, including quartz 
 sand, used to make glass, petroleum, used to make plastic and rubber, iron, used to make steel, 
 among other things, and copper, used to make wire. You have farms to make fruit, beef, milk, wool, 
 wheat, cotton, and alligator skins. You can ship things via trucks, trains, and planes. Different 
 objects sell better in different seasons. Christmas trees, for a great example, sell mostly during 
 winter. Indoor toys also sell better in the rainy seasons. Some rainy years fail to yield large 
 amounts of crops, and some sunny years also fail you crops. Some years plastics are in, some years 
 they're not. It's all about the market.
  
  The idea is simple. The work is not. For example, to create a car, one must mine copper wire. Then 
 they should transport it to a warehouse with a nearby electrical factory. You should then create 
 an oil drilling derrik, that mines petroleum. Turn that into plastic. Transport it to where to 
 the copper wire is being held. Then instruct the factory to create the item "Electrical Components", 
 using the wire and plastic. At the same time, you should be mining iron, and tuning it into steel. 
 Turn the steel into a "car body". Get more steel, and more electrical components, and use them 
 to make an "engine". Mine more petroleum, and turn it into "rubber". More steel. Take the rubber 
 and the steel, and make "tires". 
  Now take the Engine, Electrical Components, Car body, and Tires to a Car Factory. 
  
  Congratulations. 
 You have made your first car. 
  
  Now ship it (most convieniently by airplaine, you have to have to build two airports plus airplaines 
 to do this.) to a warehouse with a car dealer ship nearby to sell it. Oh, and did I mention you 
 can make sports cars, too? plus half of the work for twice the price.
  
  This is the basic idea of this game. Don't worry, though. Most products are much easier to sell 
 that this. Take fruit, for example. All you have to do is build a farm or two. when harvesting 
 time comes, truck the fruit over to a store in the city, and wait for it to sell. You sell things 
 like fruit first, and slowly work your way up to cars.
  
  Unfortunetly, the campaign mode is annoying. It won't give you much time to enjoy the game. It's 
 full of turnover rates, company value, and profit deadlines.
  
  The Single Player mode gets a score of 8/10.
  
  The multiplayer Mode: 
  
  I don't even 
 want to go there. But I figure I should. Take the single player mode, and stick four other players 
 in there. What do you get? A mess. A big, sloppy mess. Imagine that you just got all of the materials 
 to manufacture cars. Except the copper wire. You can't mine copper, because one or all of your 
 opponents have used up all the copper, or built mines over all of it. Then you get mad about it, 
 and build 5,000 trucks mindlessly going back and forth on the roads your opponents do most of their 
 shipping on, so their products won't sell. If someone get's mad and they quit, it screws up the 
 whole game. The whole system makes for an unpleasent environment.
  
  It would be better if it was a team game, and everyone tried to work together to help the economy.
 
  
  The multiplayer mode gets a score of 3/10.
  
  The Sound/Music: 
  
  The sound effects for this game are very few. The sounds that are there, however, are high quality, 
 and sound quite realistic. The music will repeat itself, but it lasts for a long time. It's very 
 memorable, while being creative. It may get old after a while, but after not hearing it for some 
 time, it's welcome back to you computer.
  
  Some more sound effects would be nice.
  
  The Sound/Music gets a score of 7/10.
  
  The graphics:
  
  The graphics are nicly done, 
 but there aren't that many buildings, etc. That's pretty much all there is to them.
  
  The graphics get a score of 7/10
  
  Summary:
  
  This is the kind of game that you'll feel 
 like playing by yourself. It doesn't get old quickly, and has it's own Weather System and Economy. 
 It has some downfalls, but no real problems. This game is also void of glitches, as far as I can 
 tell. This is also an educational game. You'll learn about when the electric toothbrush was released. 
 Along trains and planes. You'll find out who released which models, and when. if they were a success, 
 or a failure. (If a failure, you'll find out on your own once they all shut down at the same time.) 
 It's a game that takes practice, and work, but once the work is finished, it feels very rewarding.
 
  
  Alter 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kellerwe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 15, 2006 11:28 pm PT
Review:  Industry Giant II will definitely not be everyone's cup of tea as they say, but for those players 
 out there that like to sit for hours strategizing and planning their own dream fanancial empires, 
 this game does offer quite a lot of appeal in my opinion.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  While GameSpot's original review equated this game to a fancy interface for a very big spreadsheet, 
 I have to disagree:
  
  The economic model underlying the game is actually quite complex, with variances in supply and 
 demand, economic growth (and stagnation) per town or city on the map as well as ongoing changes 
 in demand for individual products over time.
  
  As time goes on for example, certain products become out-dated and the demand for such products 
 will then start showing significant declines in all towns and cities on a map for example. If the 
 player only realizes this when it starts happening, it's usually too late to start implementing 
 superceding products.
  
  This forces the player to really understand basic economic supply and demand issues on a town-by-town 
 basis, as well as to do some extensive forward planning in terms of product selection, manufacturing 
 and distribution thereof.
  
  This is another area where the game is actually quite extensive, in the sense that access to raw 
 materials for manufacturing purposes, etc. can become rather difficult on certain maps and the 
 transport costs associated with bringing raw materials to product factories may start out-weighing 
 the benefits of actually manufacturing such products in the first place, often leading to failed 
 products manufactured at huge capital investment and ultimately leading to a failing economic empire.
 
  
  Then there are some fairly interesting product transport issues that come in play, be it via road, 
 rail, water or even air transport (during later stages of the game) where the player needs a basic 
 understanding of costs associated with each product, it's destination and how long it will take 
 to get there to meet current (and future) levels of demand.
  
  In summary, while the user interface for the game may be somewhat weak in certain areas, the sheer 
 complexity and number of game aspects that need to be addressed as time goes on makes for some 
 very gripping gameplay if you are into this sort of thing.
  
  There's no shooting of stuff here - it's economic empire building pure and simple.
  
  Graphics:
 
  
  The graphics are actually quite good based on the fact that a game of this nature doesn't really 
 rely that much on fancy 3D rendered graphics, purely as a result of the underlying nature of the 
 game. Other titles such as Capitalism II for example, also come to mind.
  
  So compared to something like Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion or Company of Heroes this is really chalk 
 and cheese, but then again the underlying game doesn't need the latter to be enjoyed.
  
  An interesting point is that this game seems to actually have trouble running on machines with 
 later variants of graphics cards based on NVidia 6600 and later chipsets for some reason - hence 
 the reason for this very, very late review I am writing for this game:
  
  I recently upgraded my wife's PC from a GeForce 5200 based graphics card (on which Industry Giant 
 II actually ran perfectly) , to a GeForce 6800 based graphics card. Immediately I found problems 
 with Industry Giant II and a visit to the JoWood web site confirmed my suspicions in this regard.
 
  
  Sound:
  
  Nothing special here, but once again, a game of this nature doesn't really rely on this kind of 
 thing anyway.
  
  Value:
  
  I suspect that almost three years after it's release, this one will be quite a regular item in 
 your local Bargain Bin by now, and if you like this kind of sit back and admire your own empire 
 kind of game, then the value as far as I am concerned is actually excellent.
  
  Who Should Buy It:
  
  This game is purely for folks out there that enjoy games like Capitalism 
 II and Patrician III if you can still find it anywhere.
  
  Who Shouldn't Bother:
  
  Anyone else - period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ngjy22
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 25, 2006 1:53 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Lots to improve
  Sound: Good
  Graphics: Good (For 2002)
  
  Everything is OK, except for the most important, the gameplay. They still have a lot to improve 
 on the gameplay, maybe its name "Industry Giant", make it have to improve. 'Industry' can have 
 a lot of different types, for example (not likely to be example) , in the real world, of course 
 we can set up a business, but what you want to produce or service, like transportation industry, 
 Real Estate Industry, Manufacture and retail industry etc. This can be compared with 'Capitalism 
 2', a very big difference. Maybe the old time 1900s do not have stock market and do not live in 
 apartments... but this may be possible when the time reach 1970s. The warehouse is good, with big 
 picture of you product and no. of boxes in it, you can just look at it instantly.
  Another thing is, the transportation of the goods and material. Luckily in the real world does 
 not have a lot of terminals, normally truck terminals should be outside (still within the area) 
 or at any corner of any factories, but this is different, a big terminal and a warehouse on the 
 ground. Factories have their own warehouse too, why is there a need to build a warehouse, factories 
 can store some goods in their own warehouse but there is also a limit too. The AIs do not really 
 care about the material, they just build their buildings over the material, then I do not have 
 a chance to get more material or just have no space to build the mine! I can agree that material 
 will finish, but wood will not finish fast, wood from trees, trees will grow and reproduce, why 
 wood will not reproduce in this game? If you like a game that it always need you to sit back and 
 relax, this is a good choice. I can agree with Gamespot's review, you have to sit back and have 
 a cup of beverage until the roads are jammed by your trucks, too many trucks on the road and makes 
 everything slow down, too much different types of goods in your warehouse and waste some goods 
 arriving or all the same type of goods fill up the entire warehouse and not accepting others arriving. 
 The trucks are loading and waiting for more goods, sometimes the terminal is full and trucks arriving 
 have to stop and wait outside the terminal and if too many trucks arriving at the same time, they 
 may block the others vehicle that are only passing by the terminal.
  
  The expansion have improve some and added more features!
  
  The add-on to Industry Giant II 
 covers the time period from 1980 to 2020. Industry Giant II fans can look forward to products like 
 cell phones and computers; the more nostalgic among the players get additional products like jewellery 
 industry and coffeehouses available from 1900 on.
  
  Many new means of transportation will challenge the player like high-speed trains and helicopters 
 with dedicated heliports. These combine the advantages of trucks (small stations) and planes (high 
 speed) .
  
  The newly implemented overseas ports will give you a new strategic approach by importing and exporting 
 goods, expanding your field of action beyond the borders of the map.
  
  Control of storage space was much improved. Now you can link factories and railway stations to 
 certain storage places to influence the flow of goods directly. Inside the storage space, management 
 is much easier now since you can control every single unit of storage place individually, which 
 leads to a better use of capacity.
  
  But another thing, the expansion does not have a stock market although the years are same as now.
 
  
  I recommend that if you are willing to buy Industry Giant 2, don't buy individually, you can straight 
 away buy the Gold Edition.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: praxis22
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 20, 2005 4:17 pm PT
Review:  I like this game, it's big, it's got an "endless" mode, which addresses one of my big issues with 
 all such "God" games, in that once you've beaten it, the level ends. With this game, you can just 
 set up a big map, and then tweak and tune to your hearts content. I'll admit it's not for everyone, 
 the idea of doing a pop rush to create soldiers as opposed to a steel mill or bottle factory is 
 probably more compelling to those that quick victory and bragging rights. But Like I said, I have 
 "issues" with any kind of rush, I like to take my time and take in the scenery :) It is a very 
 complex game, I rate it as hard, as if you dont actually plan, and lay in too much supply too soon 
 it can really screw you up. It's a game of quiet contemplation, market research, and much use of 
 the pause button. You cannot play this game real time, there is simply far too much detail and 
 too much going on at any one time, (after 30-40 mins of play) for you to succeed or even cope with 
 the pace once your ecconomy starts to get some kind of momentum. It's a game to play alone, that 
 encourages deep thought and experimentation, a great sandbox in which to while away the hours.
 
  
  Why the review now, after so much time? My GFX card is on the way out so I've had to replace my 
 Radeon 9700Pro with a Radeon 7000 (64Mb) while I await spares, so I'm looking through my collection 
 looking for games that run well on a low spec card. 
  
  Like I said, it's not for everyone, but for a pretty face on a complex spreadsheet it does rather 
 well for itself. Free on a good many cover discs of late, seek it out. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
