-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: IndyCar Series
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/indycarseries/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  5, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 6.9, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 36 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Genre: Formula One Racing
Date:     Sep 23, 2003
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you're new to this particular subgenre of virtual racing, you will find that IndyCar Series delivers 
 enough action and challenge to keep you driving for some time to come. 

  PC road racing lost its driving force when Papyrus Design Group opted out following this year's 
 typically excellent NASCAR Racing Season 2003. One of the publishers swimming in Papyrus' wake 
 is Codemasters, with their British-designed IndyCar Series. While, at times, quite pleasing and 
 certainly not a bad game, IndyCar suffers from two problems. Firstly, it seems incomplete -- as if 
 the developer simply ran out of the time it needed to put the final critical pieces of the puzzle 
 together. Secondly, although it is clearly intended to engage a studied racing simulation audience, 
 IndyCar Series is not in the same frighteningly realistic realm of recent Papyrus and Electronic 
 Arts road racing games. If you're new to this particular subgenre of virtual racing, you will find 
 that IndyCar Series delivers enough action and challenge to keep you driving for some time to come. 
 If you're an experienced racing simulation nut, you may be somewhat less enthusiastic.  

          All dressed up and ready to rumble, a flock of IndyCars crest a hill and head straight 
 for the cameraman.     

  We'll get into the details in a moment, but let's first define just what it is that this game is 
 simulating. Like Papyrus' late, great IndyCar Racing II, Codemasters' IndyCar Series strives to 
 re-create the upper echelon of North American open-wheeled competition. However, that upper echelon 
 isn't nearly the same now as it was back in 1995 when Papyrus had its last kick at the IndyCar 
 can. Back then, IndyCars competed at a wide variety of venues -- from ovals and superspeed tri-ovals 
 to purpose-built permanent road courses and temporary through-the-city-streets tracks. This variety 
 made for a superb and superbly versatile computer game, especially when paired with Papyrus' experience 
 and expertise.  

  Yet not long after IndyCar Racing II arrived on retail shelves, there was a falling out in the 
 real-life IndyCar ranks. What followed was a long and protracted conflict that hasn't even ended 
 now, but suffice it to say that IndyCar split into two distinct factions. One of the two blocs -- now 
 known as CART -- furthered its expansion into other countries and continues to this day to be a truly 
 multidisciplined series, incorporating an assortment of track types from around the globe. The 
 other group, the Indy Racing League, retained the rights to the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, the 
 Indy 500 event, and the IndyCar moniker. Its flagship series, the IndyCar Series, debuted in 1996 
 with a laughably small five-race season but has grown substantially ever since.  

  However, one of IndyCar's biggest potential downfalls is its track diversity. Or, rather, the lack 
 thereof. Unlike CART, IndyCar eschews road courses and street circuits in favor of an oval-only 
 approach. Even more than NASCAR, which is infamous for its sea of ovals but in reality offers several 
 nonoval events, IndyCar is the current epitome of the "drive fast, turn left" mentality. Unfortunately, 
 that's part of the problem with this game.  

  To wit, any racing game that deals with round and round ovals has a potential for being a might 
 dull. Such was not the case with the Papyrus IndyCar series because Papyrus had constructed such 
 a dynamic and realistic car model and such superbly distinctive and reactive circuits that no two 
 tracks felt the same. Furthermore, the Papyrus game was able to spice things up by including all 
 the nonovals that were featured in the real-life series at the time. Conversely, IndyCar Series 
 is pure oval. That would be fine if the game's physics modeling and reactivity were sophisticated 
 enough to make the overall experience feel appreciably different from circuit to circuit, but it 
 isn't.  

  That's not to say developer Brain in a Jar didn't build unique and, at least, semi-authentic facilities. 
 Indeed it did. In fact, most of its tracks are impressively representative of their real-life counterparts. 
 Some are big, wide, and fully conducive to extremely high top-end speeds, while others are short, 
 confining, and filled with wild gear shifts and braking. Some are heavily banked, and others, like 
 the nearly rectangular Indianapolis course, are fearsome due to their lack of banking. This sort 
 of thing nicely mimics the real world.  

  However, Brain in the Jar's cars, and their reactions to the driving surface, are simply not dynamic 
 enough. Unlike IndyCar Racing (or Papyrus' NASCAR Racing series or EA's current F1 series) , IndyCar 
 Series doesn't do enough to convince you that you're sitting in a real, twitchy, dangerous racing 
 machine. When you blast too fast into a turn, you don't feel the tires jumping and breaking away 
 from the pavement. Instead, the game slowly drifts you up the track and (usually) into the wall. 
 Granted, you  will  feel wheelspin and a loss of adhesion at certain times -- like when you gun it 
 too fast from a standing start, for example. In the most critical areas -- the turns -- the car remains 
 rooted to the pavement, as if on rails, until it begins to inexplicably shift up toward the wall. 
 Why the game allows you to drive so "hot" into a turn and so quickly through most of it before 
 throwing you off your line near the end remains a mystery.  

  Unfortunately, another downside to IndyCar Series is that you don't feel like you have a 675 horsepower 
 monster ready to spin your tires or throw you sideways if you do something foolish. Although you 
 can do donuts from a standing start and shoot sideways if you accelerate too quickly in first and/or 
 second gear, you don't quite sense that a momentary lapse of concentration might spell the end 
 of your day. Racers who've come to IndyCar Series from an arcade racing background may find these 
 quirks quite a bit less damning than sim veterans, but they  are  quirks nonetheless.  

          In IndyCar Series, getting airborne is easy but not recommended.     

  There are other 
 reasons, apart from inadequate physics modeling, that keep IndyCar Series an average game. For 
 example, manual car control is not permitted on pit lane. This is nothing short of pure annoyance 
 for anyone who knows what they're doing out there. Yet the most critical, and surely the most infuriating, 
 blunder is a complete and total lack of rearview mirrors. That's right. Either Brain in a Jar had 
 its "brains in a jar," or it was compelled by a fast-approaching deadline to preclude rearview 
 mirrors from a game that otherwise threatens to be a simulation. Though you can check the action 
 behind you, via a quick "look behind" control, there is simply no excuse for not placing rearview 
 mirrors in a game that pits you side-by-side with other intelligent but hell-bent drivers at 230mph. 

  Furthermore, whenever you do bang tires or other equipment with another driver or wall, you'll 
 find the game's damage modeling to be curiously allocated and exhibited. IndyCar Series crashes 
 are always accompanied by a liberal spray of featureless 2D polygons, bouncing hither and thither. 
 These polygons seem to have no real purpose other than esthetics. Indeed, even in easy mode, where 
 there is no damage, the very same polygons dance about the screen even after a gentle nudge against 
 the wall. In pro mode, damage plays a far more prominent role. Here, you can be forced into the 
 pits for repair or knocked clean out of the race by what would seem to be unrealistically light 
 contact. On a more authentic note, if you do something foolhardy, such as drive backward into the 
 pack, you're instantly out of the race.     

  Interestingly, in the scant few seconds between such a collision and your far-too-quick banishment 
 from the track, the game goes to great lengths to display the incidental effects of the impact. 
 Thick black smoke belches from the affected cars, as well as brief glimpses of fire. Dislodged 
 nose cones and wings bounce across the track, and another sprinkling of those dancing 2D polygons 
 will make their reappearances. The general impression is very good and is filled with the necessary 
 fire and brimstone. Yet, if you get a moment to check your car after the "accident," you'll see 
 that your tires are still attached. The suspension may be bent, but the tires are still there. 
 In fact, the majority of your chassis will look virtually untouched.  

          Where there's smoke, there's fire. And where there's fire, there's a serious mess.     
 

  Otherwise, IndyCar Series graphics are quite serviceable. The cars themselves are nicely rendered, 
 with adequately detailed bodies, rotating tires, active suspensions, reflective surfaces, and appropriate 
 real-life sponsor logos and decorations. The exposed engines are not particularly beautiful or 
 intricate, but that can be forgiven in the grand scheme of things. In the cockpit, you'll find 
 a turning steering wheel, animated driver's hand and arms, and, of course, a lack of rearview mirrors. 
 You'll also find a lack of gauges or dials of any sort, apart from a series of tiny LEDs on your 
 steering wheel that warn you against over-revving your motor. With the exception of that single 
 gauge, the cockpit is a blank, black vacuum. The important information you should find therein 
 is instead displayed at the bottom right of the screen. In the bottom left you'll see a tire temperature 
 indicator, and in the top right you'll see the current race standings.  

  Outside your car, IndyCar Series is by no means unattractive. Brain in a Jar's depiction of translucent, 
 billowing tire smoke and inky engine smoke is dead on. Environmental effects are basic but passable, 
 with real-time shadows under the cars, permanent skid marks, and attractively illuminated evening 
 races being some of the highlights. The track surfaces differ realistically from venue to venue 
 and are meticulously detailed to more effectively convey a sense of speed. In fact, the developer 
 has even added a little artificial blurring, which comes into play as your speed increases. Ultimately, 
 the game's sensation of speed is superb, as is its pit stop sequence, which is replete with an 
 intelligently animated crew that performs their respective jobs.  

  You'll want to watch your exploits later via the IndyCar Series replay suite, where you can smoothly 
 move from vehicle to vehicle and summon up a wide variety of camera positions to get a better view 
 of that big crash or that split-second victory. It's a very good replay suite, actually, providing 
 oodles of impressive TV-style perspectives. However, it won't allow you to save a replay for future 
 viewing.  

  Off the track, the game features a number of welcome perks. Its selection of user options is top-notch, 
 allowing you to tailor all important parameters to your liking. If you want to run a 10-lap race, 
 a half-distance, or full-distance event, you can do it. If you want to apply one of a variety of 
 helpful driver's aids, you can do that too. Strangely, in order to change your control configuration 
 scheme, the program takes you temporarily to the Windows desktop, where a complex and unintuitive 
 routine awaits. Most players should get the hang of it after a little indoctrination. The game's 
 garage facility, though very useful and impressively complex, will take a bit longer to master. 

  One of the most interesting options is one that adapts the AI to your level of competence. Too 
 many racing games have come to market with what has often been termed as an automatic catch-up 
 feature, which allows either the human driver or the artificially intelligent competitors to unrealistically 
 make up lost ground after a crash or whenever a specific lead margin has been detected. Perhaps 
 suitable for some arcade games, automatic catch-up is reviled in most simulation circles. Brain 
 in a Jar has seemingly provided the perfect solution, though AI drivers do tend to hang around 
 even when adaptive AI is switched off.  

  Of course, no racing game that seeks to re-create a given series would be complete without a full 
 complement of licensed drivers and circuits. IndyCar Series delivers here, too, by offering all 
 the key IndyCar teams and 14 of its tracks. The game allows you to jump into quickie one-off races, 
 or you can campaign through a full season of events. Sadly, it won't permit custom season construction. 
 One of the highlights is its Indianapolis 500 option, which allows you to head off to Indy for 
 a full weekend of fun and frivolity, including the anxiety-ridden "Bump Day" where you may just 
 find yourself on the bubble as the slowest qualifier, waiting to potentially be bumped from the 
 race by a faster driver. Unfortunately, the game does not support multiplayer human versus human 
 competition.  

  Certainly one of the finest accoutrements is a little something called "masterclass." Here, you're 
 taken on a surprisingly lengthy and stunningly comprehensive, multifaceted tutorial of virtually 
 everything pertinent to the real-life IndyCar series, as well as to the game itself. Narrated by 
 series driver and one-time Indy 500 winner Eddie Cheever Jr., masterclass instructs effectively 
 and even offers interactive skill-testing scenarios. This is a wonderful component and should not 
 be taken lightly.  

          An attentive and fully animated IndyCar Series pit crew goes to work on the team car.  
    

  IndyCar Series audio is fair. Engine notes are believable and tuned to the current viewer perspective, 
 of which there are several. Brake squeal is accurate and informative. Collision effects are not 
 nearly dramatic enough, and may sometimes be nonexistent. The spotter/crew chief is a tad late 
 every now and then but generally offers lots of timely and useful information.  

  Ultimately, IndyCar Series is a decent game with lots of likeable perks but a few too many foibles 
 to be heartily recommended. However, this is the only way you're going to experience IndyCar on 
 your computer these days. If you can handle the rough edges and aren't a hardened simulation connoisseur, 
 you may want to take this one for a spin.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
