-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Infernal
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/diaboliquelicensetosin/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 It looks pretty.
 ummm, it doesn't crash.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Dull, repetitive gameplay; makes the act of shooting a chore.
 wastes its interesting setting and premise.
 short single-player campaign, no multiplayer, little replayability.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 18, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.9
Critic Score: 6.1, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 932 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Metropolis Soft.
Genre: Fantasy Shooter
Date:     May 9, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Infernal embraces style over substance, resulting in a dull and repetitive shooting experience. 
 

  In traditional Christian theology, souls stuck between heaven and hell are caught in purgatory, 
 which is an apt description of where Infernal belongs. This third-person shooter portrays the conflict 
 between heaven and hell as being waged on Earth via corporate proxies. You'll play as a former 
 heavenly agent who's kicked out of heaven and caught between both sides. However, the gameplay 
 in Infernal hardly aspires to greatness, nor is it a complete disaster. Instead, this supernatural 
 action game just muddles along.  

          It looks pretty, but that's about all this shooter has going for it.     

  You play 
 as Ryan Lennox, a fallen angel sipping drinks in a bar with a friend when suddenly shock troops 
 from Everlight, the heavenly corporation, try to kill him. With nowhere else to turn, Lennox teams 
 up with hell's corporation for some revenge. In return, he is blessed (or cursed) with infernal 
 powers that allow him to teleport around, levitate objects, fire powerful magical blasts, and see 
 the invisible. That's in addition to his regular arsenal of weapons, ranging from pistols to assault 
 rifles, as well as exotic equipment, such as welder guns and heavy energy beams. With these powers 
 and weapons, Lennox has to storm Everlight's facilities to uncover its plan to mind control humanity 
 while letting people still think they have free will. That touches on an interesting theological 
 and philosophical question, but that's about as far as the game goes in that direction. In Infernal, 
 it's might that makes right, which is all you'll have to worry about.  

  However, it doesn't matter how edgy the characters are or how cool the story is if the act of actually 
 shooting a gun or blowing away enemies isn't a lot of fun, which is Infernal's major problem. When 
 you get down to it, combat -- the heart of the game -- is dull and repetitive. You repeatedly battle 
 the same lame foes in a process that involves storming into a room, blasting them all repeatedly, 
 and then draining the bodies of their souls to restore your health. Draining souls also strips 
 your foes of their weapons and ammunition. The whole process takes about five seconds for each 
 body and absolutely kills the pace of the game because you'll spend as much time draining souls 
 as you do fighting. Then, you'll proceed to the next room to repeat the process. Even though there's 
 a cover mechanic, it's more annoying than useful, and you don't really need to bother with it because 
 there's not much tactical thinking required in the game. The enemies themselves are lackluster, 
 spouting the same tired dialogue while rushing blithely to their fates and displaying little intelligence. 
 Meanwhile, the same annoying heavy metal riff plays whenever a battle starts up, so you're basically 
 sick of it by the end of the first level.  

           Draining souls is fun at first but gets really tired after the hundredth time.     

 
  Unfortunately, there are four more levels to follow, and the gameplay doesn't really improve throughout 
 the course of those levels. Yes, the enemies get a bit tougher, and there are the requisite boss 
 fights, but the dullness of the combat experience remains the same. That's a pity because there's 
 clearly potential here. The visuals are very slick and glossy. There's also an advanced physics 
 system that lets you knock over objects, although it has very little impact on the overall game. 
 The environments are pretty standard, linear shooter environments. You'll follow a tight path that 
 weaves through a monastery, a refinery, a metal works, and an aircraft carrier. You also have to 
 hunt for key cards or figure out a small puzzle to proceed, which is all fairly standard for the 
 shooter genre.  

  The single-player campaign will take between six and eight hours to play through, and that's about 
 it because there is no multiplayer component to the game. So once you've played through Infernal, 
 you'll probably never want to play through it again. It's not that it's a mess of a game, but it's 
 not a very compelling game either. In the end, Infernal's issue is that it has got lots of style 
 but very little substance.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (62 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 10:02 pm PT
Review:  In Christian teachings, souls that pass after death will depending on the lives lead, would take 
 you to hell, heaven, or the middle ground purgatory. This is essentially where the story of Infernal 
 beings. This third person shooter throws you into a battle between heaven and hell being waged 
 on Earth. 
  
  You play as Ryan Lennox, a fallen-angel that was booted out of heaven. Spending time at a bar, 
 Lennox' good time is spoiled when a rather large group of troops attack him. With no where else 
 to turn, Lennox places his faith into Hell's corporation for some vengeance. In return, he is given 
 Infernal powers, that allow him to teleport, levitate objects, fire magical blasts, as well as 
 the ability to see the invisible. 
  
  The original plot although is certainly a good one, is not explained thoroughly. To worsen matters, 
 the combat can often become tedious. Storming into a room, killing the same enemies and then consuming 
 their souls to gain ammunition, health and mana are the extent of action. It's not terrible by 
 any stretch, but rinse and repeat method is a strong quality. 
  
  As you progress through the short length story, the enemies get tougher, and there are boss fights 
 that follow. In short, it's a disappointing campaign that is made more-so by the obvious potential 
 that was never met. The graphics in the end, are the games strongest point. Vivid, slick and glossy, 
 the pretty visuals are impressive indeed. There is also some advanced physics that can be seen 
 by knocked over objects. 
  
  In definition, Infernal is not a bad game. The games pretty visuals are cool storyline make it 
 a memorable game to behold. However, the shady combat, highly un-replayable single-player campaign, 
 and lack of multiplayer seriously damages what could have been a great game.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  so.. INFERNAL is a Great Game i mean
  its very fun, to kill and use INFERNAL POWERS
  the game holds a great graphics and visual effects
  it makes the game be so cool and nice to 
 look at
  also the gameplay is easy 3th person, and its like every other third person view games like GTA... 
 no.. its more like GEARS OF WAR, so anyway the game got also great sound effect of shooting and 
 powers sounds and what can i more say about that amazing game.. ah i forgot the one problem in 
 the game.. "to short" the game is to short and this is kind a sucks, this game is so awesome that 
 it should be at least more long i finished this game in 2 days, and thats the problem.. if it was 
 longer the game was way better so thats it i guess.. anyway the game is worth playing and i hope 
 there will be INFERNAL II
  
  * the game has pretty smooth Frame Rate
  * the game doesnt have bugs and glitches 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrickstat
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 8, 2008 6:47 am PT
Review:  the game today is very cheep, almost free really, i payed 10 buks for it brand new from a pc store. 
 
  the game is not 6 hours like some people have been saying it is, it is around the 10 - 12 hour 
 mark.
  the graphics are really good and do not demand too much from a pc. i have a q9300 cpu 4 gigs of 
 ram and 2 8800gts512 cards in sli and i have everything on full highest settings and i get 100% 
 perfect gameplay, no shuder or even slight bad frame rate. 100% perfect, the game did not crash 
 even once.
  the game play alot of people critisize that it repetitive, what game isent? the fights are really 
 fun and you really get alot of satisfaction killing the enemy enemy. grenades do most damage. sniper 
 rifle is powerful but you do not get to use it much. most fight are close range machine guners.
 
  the boss fights are really fun!!! the fantastic graphics also make it fun and it also has some 
 physics in the game with barrels and boxes exploding when you shoot them.
  for the low price of this game, i wanted to rate it a 10 but i can rate it a 10, just because of 
 its cheep price .. because its not 10, but an 8 for price vs value. this game is fun fun fun and 
 you will enjoy it alot. the powers of hell are super fun, everything about the game is fun. so 
 for 10 buks get it for 10 hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cis278
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is not all that bad. I really don't understand what critics are looking for today in some 
 games. Infernal has good graphics. It pushes my machine with a dual core Opteron 180 2 gigs of ram, 
 and 2900pro card. I have all the settings turned up and I'm playing at a resolution of 800x600. 
 The game looks great.
  
  Boss fights are cool, yeah the game gets tedious after a while from just shooting enemy's, but thats 
 when I know I need a break and need to come back to reality and deal with my life. Game has plenty 
 of hours of mindless fun, some puzzle and an a typical story line. 
  
  You can get the game for dirt cheap, and for some o these games they make and you pay fifty bucks 
 and get through the game in 2-3 sittings. Infernal will give you way more than that and for its 
 price it should get a 10 rating alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natasha8384
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  Let's start this brief review with the question: Why is it so popular among the US game reviewers 
 to slam down smaller Central and East European game developers? Or, in other words why not apply 
 the same criteria to game companies like Microsoft, Ubisoft, EA, etc.? I think there are some issues 
 of self-censorship when it comes down to critically reviewing games coming out of powerful publishing 
 houses often accompanied with hordes of lawyers behind them and loads of ad campaign cash while 
 small developers are subject to potshots by critics who suddenly can't find positives but actively 
 search for every possible negative. So ... 5.9/10 you say? Hmmm ... lets see ... a badly ported 
 Resident Evil 4 (for PC) scored 7.8/10 with no mouse support (which should be automatically a consumer 
 class-action lawsuit or at least an automatic "1/10") , a very buggy port of PC version of Gears 
 of War scored 9/10, and a perfectly executed and "made for PC" Infernal scored 5.9/10. Weird stuff 
 indeed.
  
  So lets compare Gears of War (PC) that's otherwise an excellent game on XBOX with Infernal in terms 
 of a PC third person shooter game:
  
  1. Gameplay: both games feature fairly linear gameplay with some puzzles along the way (puzzles 
 are better in Infernal) . Firefights are excellently done in both games, but maybe somewhat more 
 exciting in GoW (PC) . NPCs' AI is also very well done in both games.
  
  2. Multiplayer: GoW (PC) clear advantage since Infernal is a singleplayer-only game, tho you have 
 to be lucky to find someone on line to play GoW (PC) co-op with.
  
  3. Graphics: Almost impossible to determine which one is better in this respect. Both games come 
 with excellent graphics and visuals. I'd say that Infernal features better graphics in general 
 except human or humanoid models which are better in GoW (PC) .
  
  4. Sound: sound is very good in both games and as far as music goes you have a clash of the game 
 music composer giants between Kevin Riepl (GoW, UT 3, UT 2004, City of Villains, etc.) vs. Adam 
 Skorupa (Infernal, Painkiller, Painkiller Overdose, The Witcher, etc.) . High quality stuff in both 
 cases.
  
  5. Movement: clearly Infernal is superior in this respect since it includes jump, standard crouch, 
 and a better "take cover" (similar to R6 Vegas) mechanics.
  
  6. Weapons: in respect to the number of weapons, Infernal clearly wins. Aim mode is better in GoW 
 (PC) since Infernal doesn't have any aim/zoom mode except on the sniper. Tho, the reticule is better 
 in Infernal since in GoW it's a bit too large (most likely a remnant of dealing with the imprecision 
 of Xbox controllers) . Weapons in GoW feel better when fired than in Infernal.
  
  7. Difficulty: the games are about the same difficulty.
  
  8. Technical Problems, CTD, Bugs: 
 GoW -- full of them, including CTDs, no startup after install, loosing its own saved checkpoints, 
 stuttering, problems with LIVE accounts and its software. Infernal -- none (or close to none) .
 
  
  9. Smoothness of Play (frame rates) : No matter what you think about Infernal as a game, it's the 
 best optimized game of 2007. High quality graphics running with ease at a high frame rate with 
 no frame rate drops. This should be somewhat of concern to Epic that a small Polish company can 
 have such a superior performance on their custom game engine (Nitrous) topped with PhysX (for those 
 who have PhysX card) that beats the hell out of Epic's famous Unreal 3 engine with the same or 
 higher quality of visuals. GoW (PC) is nowhere near this type of frame rates or smoothness, even 
 in the game sections where there are no sudden frame rate drops or stuttering.
  
  10. Ported to PC: GoW is obviously an Xbox port. Infernal was developed for PC.
  
  11. Manual 
 Saves: GoW (PC) -- no manual saves, no quick save, only arbitrary checkpoint saves that are frequently 
 lost (so you need to replay large section of the game over and again) ; Infernal -- 10 slots for 
 manual saves, quick save.
  
  So, why is it that mostly US game critics have problem with this game? The first reason may be 
 that the Euro edition was out before North American release, and European distributor/publisher 
 (Playlogic) did much better of a job than Eidos did with the North American distribution in introducing, 
 creating hype and popularizing the title. (In retrospect, Eidos put the money on the wrong horse, 
 Kane & Lynch, instead of fully backing Infernal) . The reviewers' scores reflect that since German 
 publications rated the game above 8 with German PC Games rating it 8.7/10 (or 87/100) . But no matter 
 what happened within the secrecy of critics' offices, this game is a much better product than a 
 "5.9". On the other hand maybe so called "AAA" games that come with large ad campaigns are always 
 overrated by 1 to 3 points so more realistic scoring is called for here ... more courage from game 
 critics to say: "hey, this is a lousy port job and I'm not going to be the tool of pushing it on 
 my readers." Oh, well.
  
  Anyways, if you have any inclination towards third person shooters, Infernal is probably the third 
 person shooter of the year on the PC platform. My strong preference is FPS games, but this one 
 plays and feels very similar to GoW (PC) or El Matador ... meaning, it plays almost like an FPS 
 game. Metropolis (the developer) did a fantastic job on many aspects of this game from great graphics, 
 to the best optimization I've seen in 2007. The game has its weaknesses (lip-synching for example 
 sucks in many parts) , but overall this is a very good game.
  
  Score: 8.2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detoam13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 11:01 pm PT
Review:  ... it proved that some games are really made for people to think. Sarcasm here. I do like this 
 game greatly. I am not a fan of 3rd person games, but this one rocks. Some of the things in this 
 game reminded me of why I hated Splinter cell. Those guys can really borrow some things from this 
 game. It took me a while to get used to the transporter thing. Which is weird cause I am the guy 
 who beat Quake 4, Far cry and many others on hardest levels in record times and without cheating.
 
  What I am saying Is that this game is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ekerim
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 29, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  It could have been a fun FPS because the the core of the story seems fun, who doesn't want to be 
 the Bad Boy with a capital B ? I tried it on the hardest difficulty level and expected a bit of 
 resistance, but it all felt like a shooting gallery. The attackers had no AI controlling them, 
 just running straight forward and stopping in the middle of a corridor when they see you, just 
 in the right place for a head shot. The graphics are nice, no more, no less. Sound is also ok. 
 The banter between the devil and the anti-hero is just pathetic.
  What always gets on my nerves with games is when the creator tries to hold the players back by 
 limiting the powers of the character without any reason and they definitely do it in this game.
 
  I didn't even bother to play through the first assignment before I threw out the game, that is 
 how bad I thought it was. Waste of my time and money : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gleb_31
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 25, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  The game is quite good. I liked the music, storyline, graphics is also on high level. I don't know 
 what, but something is missing there. The game is a bit boring in some way, repeating. Maybe there 
 are no dynamical things, if you understand. When you play you have a feeling that you've seen something 
 like this before. I didn't like the voice of the girl. It's really crappy made. She is not an actress, 
 there is no life in such sounding. Although the girl sucks, the guy makes an impression of the 
 hero. I think that's it, pretty regular game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kambosa
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 22, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Infernal is a game of mixed reactions. As you begin the game, A cut scene of the fallen angel (the 
 character you play with) sitting with a girl talking. You feel as you watch that scene that you 
 are watching a bad cheap Chinese movie. Then you begin to play .... killing some soldiers attacking 
 you, not bad game-play , but boring.
  
  The graphics are not that expected from a 2007 game .. but not bad as well. The environments are 
 good to look at ... the characters are detailed but their faces look weired and their mouths don't 
 move with the words as they should do (not synchronised) . Their is a blurry feel to the game that 
 is annoying.
  
  Having superpowers as working to the devil is not bad. Actually it breaks the boring feel to the 
 gameplay a bit ... but after a while itself becomes a bit repetitive.
  
  In the end to sum this game up ... If you like third person games and have nothing better to do 
 buy this game, cause it is not that good of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xterra2
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 8, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Graficos mesmo mto bons, em nvidia devem ser melhores pela M. Sdw2..
  fixe! Tipo um gajo agarra num video de um first person em dx10 e instalas este jogo e depois de 
 rolar mto bem num pc mediocre, vai ver se nao tens o dx10 instalado no pc! lol! os graficos surprendem! 
 A joggabilidade &eacute; media alta e entretido com efeitos porreiros! Cool! O meu pc &eacute; 
 portatil tenho um processador 2dual core t5200 e nvidia 7300 512mb dedicados e 1G de ram, n&atilde; o 
 jogo com os graficos ao maximo mas mesmo num nivel m&eacute; dio impreciona, e &eacute; mesmo fluido... 
 Vale a pena o download suas mulas! lol!
  abraxos tugas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steel_Rain777
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 6, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  Upon looking at Infernal you'll notice some great looking visuals and above average gameplay, but 
 the game fails on delivering a solid and unique experience
  
  Technically the game looks great. Some of the slickest visuals and animations for an action title. 
 Plus the game runs pretty stable with max settings (given your computer can handle it) . The action 
 in the game can get repetitive at times, but can still be quite fun if taken in short doses. A 
 definate time-killer, but there are better action games out there, that have more depth and a better 
 plot.
  
  All-in-all I would recommend this game only for Die-hard fans of all-action no-story type of games. 
 I was able to pick this up on Ebay for less than $15 so I'm not too disappointed, but right now 
 it goes for about $40 everywhere else which is not worth it by any means. If you can, however, 
 find it for around half the price of retail than pick this bad boy up, cause it plays better as 
 a budget-title 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soutzouk
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 21, 2007 6:27 am PT
Review:  infernal is a mediocre game but if you want to listen to some hardcore music while killing tech-monks 
 , then have a look at it. collecting souls every 30 secs spoils almost every fast pacing experience 
 you could get from this game. any way, the grafx are fancy but nothing special. last but not least 
 , the action is fully scripted and stealth does not exist.
  strangely enough , i kind of enjoyed playing this but , as soon as it was over , i completely forgot 
 what it was all about. as for the rest , typical world destruction blah blah blah scenario , not 
 many weapons there and the character can do a bunch of amazing and diabolic things but when it 
 comes to jumping over 1 meter down the hill , he just dies! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gowthamspa
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 20, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  This game has nice graphics. Other than that its nothing new. Just another reqular shooter. The 
 ammo and health system sucks. We have to suck the soul of the dead body for life and ammo. When 
 there is a heavy fight, I either ran out of ammo or health. While searching the dead bodies, we 
 get hit more.
  
  The best thing about the game is the graphics. Hero's evil mana to fire with extra kick is a cool 
 feature. The AI of the enemy are just average. Its easy to take them out. Just shoot at them and 
 hide behind structures, wait for them to come look for you. They don't flank you more often. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WillieFarrell
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 20, 2007 7:22 am PT
Review:  I found my self totally dissagreeing with mostly every other review out there with this game. i 
 thought the graphics first of all were amazing! even on my nvidia gforce 7600 they stunned me! 
 the game was soo well put together it works fantastic on all computers! this game offers a different 
 view on fps. with all the creative strange powers you gain through out the game. also the controls 
 were sooo simple and easy to catch a hold of. i picked it up and couldent put it down it was such 
 a fun game and totally under rated! Thankyou for checking out my review i hope this has been helpful 
 to you and have a good day! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayzinator
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 18, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  im a big fan of shooters and i admit when i first started playing Infernal my immediate thought 
 was 'Wow!'. But a short time after i realised i would never be saying it again and i totally regretted 
 it.
  The game consists of a simple (to be honest) boring gameplay engine that is maybe bearable throughout 
 the first mission but after that the whole game just shows the white flag by simply repeating everything 
 it does.
  The one major note i can say about the game that does not change throughtout it is the graphics. 
 They are very neat and extremely well detailed but in my opinion it wasnt for this the game would 
 go from mediocre to nothing. As for the sound one of the first things i ended up doing was turning 
 the music volume right down as the heavy metal is so annoying it bascially cracked me up but the 
 SFX are decent enough just the average shooter. My big big advice is DO NOT buy this game unless 
 your some guy who gets a kick outta graphics because it IS NOT worth it AT ALL. It may be worth 
 downloading and giving a go but i still would think twice about that too. Overall Infernal was 
 a hopeful rather rushed game that if given the time maybe could have been something... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: canelasr
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jun 18, 2007 4:16 am PT
Review:  Superb graphic engine:
  Great visuals, great graphics, great physics... no doubt the best feature in this game. There's 
 a great movement fluence (just watch the way how enemy soldiers die!!!) . There are many worked 
 details. The variety of enemys is also nice to see.
  
  Characters:
  Love it. Ryan Lennox and Lucius Black character build up is over the top. Especialy Lennox, that 
 doesn't miss a chance to demonstrate his lighten up personality.
  
  Weak story:
  However, the story is somewhat weak. It isn't enough to keep the player hooked up on the game with 
 anxiety to know what's gonna happen next. There's a lack of substance, and the follow-up between 
 chapters almost doesn't exist.
  
  With a better story, it could be among the best.
  A score of 6.6, somewhat disapointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackjackstc
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 14, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  The graphic is really amazing and I consider it to be the best I've ever seen. However, shooting 
 is so easy and it's funny to say that the character is hardly to die, even playing in Difficult 
 Level. The hardest is the last level when you have to confront with a giant with just little health 
 support and ammo. If you have a strong gaming pc, you can enjoy the wonderful graphic by increasing 
 to highest resolution, effects, and details. By doing that, you will be attracted and become addict 
 to the game. It's also a good chance to show off your strong gaming pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XanderKage
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 14, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  Infernal is one off the games you really want to be good, but it misses on so many sides, it just 
 isn't...
  The Good stuff:
  Presentation is awesome, one of the coolest looking games I've ever played. Awesome graphics. Lots 
 of cool features, from infernal powers to the way the character jumps.... (yeah, I really dig the 
 way he jumps) . Nice story with a cool concept behind it. Heaven and Hell incorporated. Brilliant.
 
  The Bad stuff:
  All the cool features are so heavily recycled, they become tedious. Infernal powers feel not complete, 
 like something missing to make them seriously awesome, especially teleportation. Straight-forward 
 run-and-gun action becomes boring. It's really really really short, and with no multiplayer has 
 virtually no replay value.
  All in all, the game feels like a Christmas gift from your grandma - it's all pretty and wrapped 
 in expensive paper, but when you open it, it's just a sweater. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OracleXIII
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jun 11, 2007 2:50 am PT
Review:  The first thing that came to my mind when I saw Infernal in the store was 'can I even run it?'. 
 The recommended system configuration is brutal: 4 Ghz on the processor, 256 MB on the video card, 
 which should be a GeForce. After checking with the System Requirements Lab I was like 'meh, won't 
 work too good'. But then I decided to give it a shot, because it's a really cheap game, and the 
 cover and trailers looked really promising. Just to get this out of the way, the system requrements 
 that are placed on the box are a joke. This game runs perfectly with a very stable framerate at 
 maximum detail levels and 1280x1024 resolution on my Core Duo 2.4 Ghz and 2 Gigs of RAM. And the 
 Labs said I'm not even close to recommended. Oh well.
  Ok, Infernal is a third person shooter about a guy called Lennox who is an angel assassin that 
 got fired. And yes, as you might expect, the devil wants him to join the hell corporation. He does 
 agree and that's pretty much the whole story. Throughout the game you'll just doing what the devil 
 tells you via satellite phone. The graphics and sound in this game are really spectacular. They 
 are pretty much what makes the game worth the time spent. Graphics are smooth and bright, especially 
 the character models look great. There may be a couple of goofs in the backgrounds, but aside from 
 that the graphics really are a pleasure to watch. The music is also very good. It's not playing 
 all the time, just some heavy sounding metal guitars kick in when you shoot somebody, but they 
 are really cool guitars, not like in the old games, where it was just one sampled riff on loop. 
 And did I say shooting somebody? Well, that brings us to the most important thing in every game: 
 gameplay.
  After seeing how good it looks and hearing how good it sounds, your heard is getting smashed into 
 a concrete wall by the gameplay. And I do not mean that in the good way, unfortunately. The gameplay 
 is just simply boring. You run straight forward and shoot people. That's all there is to it. This 
 is the sad part, that this game is almost completely ruined by the gameplay. You run and shoot 
 a pistol. Everybody seem to die after a couple of shots and then you have to eat their souls to 
 restore health and gain items. May sound cool, but its really a pace killer. You get a couple of 
 guns to shoot, nothing that special, and a couple of devilish powers to use, which are probably 
 the most interesting part of the gameplay. Sometime you'll have to destroy a turret with a hell 
 shot, sometimes you'll have to teleport through the lasers... neato. Basically this game is a great 
 idea that somebody just didn't have the love for to make it be great. The graphics and sounds are 
 cool, I admit, but that's a bit too little to make the game worth the time and money. I mean, there 
 must be something more to a girl than just her good looks and nice voice to make her desireable, 
 right? Same with games. The game does not really carry any value with it, it's just another game 
 that could have been good. And it's a shame, because it was such a great idea. I say don't bother 
 getting this unless you really have the $$ to spare and are bored out of your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dtkt15
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 8, 2007 6:18 am PT
Review:  I was pleasantly surprised by this game. It is not as bad as some reviewers make it out to be. 
 Game-play may be somewhat generic but it is nevertheless solid for a third person shooter. Avid 
 FPS players may find this game boring and repetitive but for a casual gamer like me, it is entertaining. 
 The game mostly involves running and gunning so to speak, interspersed with some simple puzzle 
 solving (boss battles where you have to figure out patterns and weaknesses of the foe) . What's 
 cool is your character attains infernal powers such as teleportation that brings some variety into 
 game-play. However, the infernal powers are primarily used for unlocking doors: ( The flack this 
 game is receiving with regards to the disruption of pace because of the need to absorb souls , 
 in my opinion is really unfounded. It really doesn't disrupt the pace of game-play too much and 
 besides gives you a breather before engaging the next batch of enemies. I think it brings in some 
 elements of strategy as well. You really do not have to absorb every single soul. It is up to your 
 style of game-play. If you are a really cautious player then you would probably absorb every soul 
 to get as much ammunition as possible. However, if you are a really gung-ho sort of person, occasionally 
 absorbing some souls will suffice so as to maintain health and sufficient ammunition.
  
  The cut scenes are also cool. The character models are nice. The environments are pretty detailed. 
 I love the Ryan Lennox character. Too bad the story isn't really fully developed. I have to say 
 one of the best things about this game is its graphics. I could run the game at max settings 1024 
 x 768 on my Pentium 4 3.0 GHz 128 MB NVidia Geforce 6600GT 1GB RAM system and everything looks 
 awesome. It is great that a developer takes the time to optimize the graphics so that players don't 
 have to own a ridiculously expensive system to enjoy great graphics. As for sound, sound effects 
 are good. The voice acting is okay. The background music is pretty atmospheric. Suffice to say 
 I like the music enough to have downloaded the music pack from gamespot. The only thing that was 
 kind of distracting is the repetitious enemy comments. Even-though you have progressed well into 
 a level, you can still hear the same comments like hold your positions, don't let the enemy through 
 or something to that effect, repeated throughout the level.
  
  Overall, I enjoyed playing this game very much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Visi0naries
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 8, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  WHAT'S RIGHT - lmao
  WHAT'S WRONG - lusterless action; boring and cliche storyline; depleted potential for powers; dreadful 
 enemy A. I.; textures and environments poorly done; voice acting is laughable; no multiplayer; zero 
 replayability
  
  Working for the dark side isn't all that bad according to Infernal. In the conflict between good 
 and evil, being on the evil side can offer something fresh and tempting. Not very many people enlist 
 for evil, but perhaps Infernal wants to change that. Ironically, a decent definition of Infernal 
 is extremely evil and cruel . How is it ironic you say? Playing this game is extremely evil and 
 cruel. Having simple access to this game is extremely evil and cruel. While the box art looks like 
 the game can be nothing but just senseless fun, I would agree to this statement if you took out 
 the fun part, as Infernal is anything but fun, and only calling it senseless is sufficient enough.
 
  
  Infernal has you guiding Ryan Lennox, a hell-bent man once an acquaintance for Everlight (the good 
 guys) , but now working for the likes of evil after Everlight booted him out . Mr. Lennox is then 
 offered a deal by Satan himself, and with that, Lennox gains hellish powers that will accompany 
 him. Everlight wants to get rid of Lennox once and for all, but Lennox decides he won't be going 
 down without a fight, and swears revenge on Everlight and everything associated with it. If anything, 
 the good versus evil storyline has been done many times before and there is no need to go through 
 another storyline like that. Usually, you control the forces of good, but in Infernal, it's the 
 bad side that you're on. That still doesn't help the cliche storyline of good and evil, and in 
 the end the story is just a bore.
  
  Alongside your powers are your guns. Infernal consists more of shooting rather than using your 
 powers. As far as your arsenal is concerned, you have the usual Assault Rifle, Dual Pistols and 
 Sniper Rifle, along with different types of weapons such as the Melter, Flamethrower and a Heavy 
 Beam Gun. Sadly, more than half the weapons available are either inaccurate or weak. Whether it 
 is to spice up the challenge is beyond me, but even the weapons that are supposed to be powerful, 
 such as the Assault Rifle, completely suck and are otherwise useless. Later on in the game you 
 do get at least some more weapons with potential. Surprisingly, out of all the weapons in the game, 
 there is no shotgun or anything similar to it. It would of been a decent idea considering the action 
 in the game, but then again, the people at Metropolis would of most likely made it too inaccurate 
 or too weak.
  
  After killing your enemies, you're not finished. You have the ability to search their bodies and 
 devour their souls. Devouring souls will net you health, weapons and ammo. Unfortunately, there 
 is a process to this which proves to be blatantly annoying. The effect of it is okay, but it's 
 not okay if you have to keep using it every time you want health or ammo, and that is exactly what 
 you have to go through. All of this rolls up into one big chore that you have to constantly continue 
 doing, and you have no other choice but to do so if you plan to get anywhere further. You also 
 receive items alongside health and ammo, and with these items, usually keycards, you can continue 
 on. Sure, it may have worked with DOOM back in the day, but as for the present, searching for keycard 
 after keycard is tedious in the best sense of the word.
  
  The A. I. happens to be a mix of terrible and tantalization. At times, the enemy will pinpoint where 
 you are exactly, and will begin firing as soon as you leave your position. Even with the added 
 stealth aspects in the game, they are completely otiose as they know where you are. Despite using 
 your weak weapons, the enemy doesn't tend to resist your attack and just opts to die. There is 
 no need to flank as you can handle the enemy in any position. As you progress through the game, 
 enemies will only be more durable and will come in larger numbers, and that's just about it. Boss 
 fights are incredibly boring, simply because they are just regular enemies with a lot more health. 
 All you need to do is shoot, retreat and regain your mana, then continue on. I like to think of 
 boss fights being exciting and enthralling, but Infernal's boss fights shut me up real good.
  
  Infernal believes that it has strong action to go along with a fun experience. This is where 
 the experiment goes horribly wrong. No, it is not a fast-paced game because when you have to devour 
 souls to gain health and ammo, which takes several seconds for each body, that effaces the fast-paced 
 action. You are left with a few moments of lame action, followed by a few minutes of devouring 
 the souls to gain what you need. All this comes up to pointless action, and also a blatant lie 
 from Metropolis who went on to claim that Infernal was a quick paced action game. With that, here 
 is my response: Try again.
  
  Infernal may look like good eye candy, but if you rip it apart to the bone, we have a different 
 observation. The physics are weak, especially for this type of game. Bodies fall sloppily, and 
 the destruction of different objects all perform in the same fashion. Throughout the game, you'll 
 be running through the same looking corridors with the same looking textures. Not only that, but 
 even the textures are poorly done and look completely awful. Ryan Lennox himself looks misplaced, 
 and everybody else look no different. Your enemies for the most part look the same. Just like the 
 corridors, the environments don't have anything going for it, so don't expect much flavor that 
 hasn't already been seen. However, I can say one good thing about the graphics. The sight of Ryan 
 devouring a soul looks cool, but I can go right back on the offensive, since that sight gets old 
 quick when you keep doing it.
  
  The audio that you get out of Infernal is pathetic at best. The worst part of it all? While the 
 music and sound effects are all equally bad, the voice acting digs its own grave into the abyss 
 of atrociousness. Whoever voiced Ryan Lennox seemed like a bored fellow with a boring voice. Add 
 that to the cheesy and repetitive lines and you have yourself a disgusting result. When a fight 
 breaks out, you begin to hear some crappy attempt at rock that becomes irritating as you progress. 
 Enemies yell at you, using the same lines, and that becomes irritating as well. Sound effects become 
 dull and soon enough the game just rehashes them instead of creating new ones. It's hard to go 
 beyond laziness, but Infernal's audio proves me wrong yet again.
  
  Infernal does not have any multiplayer, which could of alleviated the already terrible game a bit. 
 Multiplayer could have worked with Infernal if tweaked right, but we can only speculate. It will 
 take you roughly 5 to 7 hours to complete the game, and I can guarantee you that there will be 
 nothing more to do once you're done. Only five levels are available from beginning to end, which 
 isn't a lot to begin with. The powers available will have their novelty worn off after beating 
 the game, and quite simply, you really aren't able to do anything else but replay the game. Anyone 
 with a right of mind wouldn't bother replaying the game, as it's an accomplished mess. Heck, it 
 may be hard to get through the game the first time through. ===========================================================
 
  Infernal wants you to believe that it is fast-paced, non-stop action, but there are many instances 
 where that statement can be adjusted to something more fitting. Like stated earlier, the game is 
 not senseless fun, but just overall senseless. Infernal is hammered with dull action, a cliche 
 storyline, tedious progression, and a lot of other significant things. Metropolis doesn't even 
 attempt to increase the longevity of the game, despite the fact there isn't any longevity to begin 
 with. It's nearly inconceivable to find anything passable among the trash that rages throughout 
 the repetitive adventure. All this wraps up into one giant ball of failure. If you're looking for 
 something that's worth your time, don't bother with this junk. It'll only make things much worse 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreeke12
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 6, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  omg this game is worse then any shooter do not!!! buy it and i play al lot of shooters but this 
 is the worst of all of them if you buy it anyway thats just your problem don't expect much of it 
 especially the graphix but the story isn't so bad, anyway just dont buy it, if jou like shooters 
 (no fantasy ) buy call of duty or of you like the fantasy buy halo. The weapons are nice but the 
 oppenents always have cooler weapons : ( ther are cheats if you press esc then type ifuammo you 
 have infinite ammo if you type ifgplasma you'll get a plasma gun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackcro55
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 6, 2007 6:55 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed Infernal including the pretty original Boss levels (you do not need to figure out the 
 exact combo of jumping, spinning, sticking your tongue out while using weapon x every 12.2 seconds 
 while the Boss monster has it's left arm around behind it's back and it's right eye open) . Add 
 in a fairly straight forward series of puzzles and goals for each level, the game plays like a 
 straight story with little complexity. But boy does it look great.
  
  Your opponents also move pretty well including using their holy powers to make it hard for you 
 to hit them. But you've got some neat and simple moves that are fun to play: diving and rolling 
 turns you temporarily invisible. So changing sides of the door that you are hiding on really work: 
 the enemy will come in and attack the side you were on and turn and look surprised when you shoot 
 them from behind. Not many games keep track of that sort of thing. You can also get very creative 
 with some of your powers: use the telekenises to preposition explosive oildrums well ahead so that 
 when an enemy does attack (zone triggered attack patterns) , you just detonate the drums and watch 
 the bodies fly.
  
  Some gripes include the fact that when you hide against an object and peak around the corner, the 
 enemy seem to be able to hit you very easily: so much for hiding. Then there is the fact that you 
 will occasionally auto hide against a surface when you just tried to walk around it and bumped 
 the corner. That leads to the occasional path finding where you'll get hung up on corners of the 
 floor (huh?) or some other edge. The only way out of that is to dive and roll. Bad guy speech is 
 also quite boring. How many guys do you have to kill before their squad leader stops saying: hold 
 the line he cannot break through (despite that you've progressed through the entire building?) . 
 Also your cute but mostly not very helpful counter agent doesn't seem to complain when you suck 
 souls from dead bodies right in front of her: definitely a missed opportunity.
  
  Overall I liked playing the game: sneaking through a monestary basement with dust motes floating 
 in the air, destroying boxes etc, in a huge foundry, train yards, cramped interior of an aircraft. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CYSYKO
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jun 6, 2007 6:45 am PT
Review:  playing infernal is like playing solitare. you can only do it when you've exhausted every other 
 option and your about to put two in your skull from boredom. i would say the sole purpose of infernal 
 is to rescue you from boredom, but solitare does a much better job at it. The graphics are the 
 only saving grace if there is one. the particle effects are rather nice and the lighting is some 
 areas is a plus. character models arent so bad either. Gameplay is where this game fails. If your 
 going to put a cover mechanic in your game, make sure it F***ing works first! its pretty much useless 
 to use this because as soon as you peek from around the corner you get shot. If you just move to 
 the edge of cover, you get shot. oh, and you can only take cover on certain objects. like walls, 
 and... walls. on boxes, crates, ledges, none of that. just a wall. another idea, lets have the main 
 character absorb bodies after their all dead to piss everbody off. not to mention this is tedious, 
 its god damn boring. im not playing the game to be more bored than i was before. if i wanted to 
 watch someone absorb something, i'd watch the japanese anime or something. The sound really isnt 
 the best either. sure the gunfire sounds ok and ambient noise is existent, but the voice acting 
 sucks! you could find better voice acting in a barn! their lips arent in synch with the voices 
 either, which doesnt suprise me of course. Value? this game has no value. it should be worth the 
 same as a pack of smokes This game, is a waste of time. the few hours i spent on this game were 
 by far, the worst of my life. if i were forced to play this game again, i would be forced to end 
 my life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devvy01
Rating: 5.7
Date: May 30, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  When I first got this, thought its about time evil had its way and good got its a__e kicked, but 
 using evil methods. Nope, pull out your guns and throwing stars and here we go again. Another god 
 DAMN 3rd person shooter. Now some of the evil tricks are good but only when you've got enough Mana 
 .. yawn .... so you've got to go around and search the bodies of dead people (but wait that takes 
 4-5 secs) oh and if you look with a secret sight, you might find a top up anyway.
  
  Graphics are great quality as the fighting starts off in the club and does continue for awhile 
 but shooting and searching, oh and unlock doors (yawn another 4-5 secs) and its time to uninstall 
 this thing.
  
  Had some potential from the hype, unlike S. T. A. L. K. E. R which was hyped forever and got about 5 
 hours of gameplay before deleted that one as well.
  
  Maybe just bias towards space sims and racing games, but there's no enough action in this one for 
 me..
  
  Live Long &amp; Prosper 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bagman34
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 29, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Infernal is one of those games that falls into a gaming void that most people avoid. This game 
 is not an A game, it's probably a B or a C game, but it doesn't try to be much more than it has 
 to and that is what makes it worth playing. There isn't a lot of plot, and there isn't much character 
 development, but there is plenty of shooting and lots of weapons. If you like a game that is simple 
 yet fun, then you should probably give this game a shot, especially since there isn't much else 
 out right now. Let's break the game down into it's parts and see what makes it worth playing. The 
 graphics in Infernal are very nice. Not necessarily the best on the market, but you can tell that 
 some polish went into the game to make it look good and the environments are very immersive. The 
 animations and effects are quite good and with the use of the Ageia Physx graphics engine, everything 
 reacts to you with some realism. Objects move in the wind, fall over when you bump them, and bodies 
 fall and move when they die. When a game is nice to look at then it usually becomes more fun to 
 play. The AI in the game is worthy enough. The enemies you encounter don't just run straight at 
 you, but instead they use cover, shoot blindly, and try and flank you. This makes your job that 
 much more interesting. The game is not terribly difficult at the medium setting, but you can always 
 crank it up if you want more of a challenge. Not every situation requires lots of shooting either, 
 some worthy boss fights are involved as well. The sound in the game is good with the gunfire especially 
 realistic making the act of shooting seem more real. The guns kick and buck as well making it feel 
 very solid and realistic when firing. There are plenty of sound effects that round out the game 
 nicely, once again not complicated, but just what was necessary to make the game worth playing. 
 This game is downloadable from Gamespot or Steam making it easy to acquire. You might not want 
 to pay the full $40 price tag for the game. There isn't any multilayer and not much reason to play 
 twice, but there was enough game that I didn't feel I was riped off. I'm sure the price will drop 
 in the near future making this a worthy game to pick up if your bored and need something to fill 
 in some time. Overall this game doesn't do anything amazing or new, but it's is far from boring 
 and delivers where it is necessary to make this a fun play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 28, 2007 4:09 am PT
Review:  I bought Infernal over Steam because the story sounded great, I downloaded the game, played it, 
 but it was REPETIVE AS... I don't know, theres not alot of varity in the game, if it did had some 
 diffrent levels and enemy's, or some new conceps every now and then, this game would be alot better.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  Great, you'll have use of the regular arsenal of weapons including pistols and assault rifles, 
 also some other unique weapons like some super-ray guns and this gun that fires needles, you'll 
 also be this person whose a angel hired by the devil, you'll have some nifty powers with you're 
 characters, including draining souls, have fun with changing gravity for items and such.
  
  Graphics:
  No complaints here, you can tell of some screenshots this is a good looking game.
 
  
  Story:
  You'll play Ryan, this ex-angel whose been hired by the devil to take revenge on certain people, 
 to do this, you'll have a arsenal of super powers you'll be using oftenly, the game lasts a few 
 good hours and is a good timewaster for the first time, but the story gets very repetive.
  
  AI:
  Run'n shoot AI, typical for a FPS game.
  
  Is it a good shooter:
  Its a good shooter,. 
 but it needs some tuning and it could be a great game to expierence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TedBob
Rating: 6.4
Date: May 27, 2007 6:28 am PT
Review:  I don't want to sit here and totaly bash the game, but I'm not even half way through it yet and 
 I'm bored silly with the game. It has a great idea for the story, but geeze, repetitive is not 
 enough to classify this game. Perhapse I'm jumping to conclusions before I actualy finish the game. 
 This is the first review I've done on a game that I haven't finished before doing so. On the good 
 side of it, there is the storyline. The idea of being an Ex-angel hired by the devil is kind of 
 neat. The idea of heaven and hell having their own security forces seems a bit far fetched but 
 what the heck? It's game. The graphics are good so thats a plus. Controlls are easy to learn. I 
 suppose if you go into the game without expecting too much, you'll be happy with it. It will never 
 make game of the year, but it has it's moments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dadlefish
Rating: 9
Date: May 27, 2007 6:02 am PT
Review:  This game deserves much more than its 5.9 given by GameSpot.
  First, the game looks terrific. It's graphics are very well done, its animation is very good, and 
 the environment really conveys the feeling.
  Being the bad guy is a refreshing thing as well :-) The twists of this game are coming as innovative 
 and delighting ideas. The game is stable, very slick and I haven't experienced any technical difficulties 
 with it. It's not very demanding even though it's very beautiful, and loading times are very good 
 as well.
  
  This is not a game that will leave you shocked, but it's pure fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Imigrant71
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 26, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game. The gameplay is fun and got me hooked withing the first 5mins. The 
 PhysX engine helps and the story is somewhat unique. I enjoyed the Infernal powers: teleporting 
 behind the enemies and wacking them with the pistol (single shot in the head) is cool!
  
  The modern setting is nice, even though not so revolutionary! If you played games like Painkiller 
 and the like, INFERNAL is for you. A good old PC shooter, don't expect more.
  
  Too bad it doesn't offer MP modes... and whatever happened to the X360 and PS3 Versions? I really 
 hope they'll revamp the game, add and improve the features (INFERNAL Powers: I want the jetpack!) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lostmen
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 24, 2007 9:55 pm PT
Review:  The game are quit impressive when we talk about the graphs. I can&acute; t lie that it will be a 
 repetitive gameplay, but for an Action Type Fan it is a full dishes... With games like Crysis and 
 stuff, with shader model 4.0, about to showing up and take the hole stage, GPUs like mine and lot 
 of others gamers with limited shader 2.0, can hope to still playing nice looking games like this 
 one.
  The sound kicks some asses too (you can see that just on the first screen) , and that is no much 
 sign of bugs or crashes...
  
  Well, i&acute; m not saying that Infernal is The Game Of 2007, but, IT IS worth playing and deserve 
 a lit more than 5.9
  
  (My Gpu = Ati Radeon x800 Gto) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MazdaMan626
Rating: 10
Date: May 23, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  I Read the Reviews on this game and Thought it looks good but Bad reviews. Decided to try it out 
 anyway and now I find myself playing it every night and sort of addicted to this game. Im a major 
 game player and on top of my 360 and the butload of games I have for it, its basically chillin 
 and Im focusing all my attention on this game. Check it out you wont be dissapointed, It does become 
 repetitive at times but to be honest it doesnt bother me that much between the taking the souls 
 and shooting up some bad guys, its really a great game, Reviewers that play the game and then give 
 there opinion really need to play the game first atleast for the first couple of missions to see 
 whats its full potential is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raziel2646
Rating: 10
Date: May 23, 2007 6:46 am PT
Review:  Everything is f***in' great. Believe meeverything graphics, game-play, story, everything... (the 
 story isn't as great as the other parts but it's just fine) I don't know how to say that in English, 
 but it's really amazing, wonderful. And you really should try playing Infernal at least once. I 
 just don't understand the 5.9 part! it's really a shame. why gamespot acts like this. 5.9 for a 
 great video game like this??? I really don't get it! But it could be better if it had something 
 like bullet-time or some slow motion effects. I really enjoyed it. Really, really, really ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 14, 2007 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Ok so it doesnt have the latest and greatest graphics, and it doesnt have some famous actors, and 
 its nothing new to the genre. But... this game is just plain fun to play. At no point did I get 
 stuck for an hour and have to refer to some walkthrough. And at no point did I say to myself is 
 this it? 
  
  It starts off a bit slow but as you gain your powers they become very useful and well thought out. 
 Eat level is just different enough than the last to keep you into the game. Character AI - Not 
 to shabby... they dont just run blindly into fire and they can also hear your footsteps so watch 
 out. You can run through a room with your guns blazing, or take your time and pick em off one by 
 one.
  
  Bosses- Tough but not so tough that I became frusterated and again had to refer to a guide or call 
 a friend. They bosses made you think but werent impossible to figure out.
  
  The storyline was so-so but I give them props on the main character creation. He reminded me of 
 what Laura Croft would be if she were a guy ;)
  
  Game Length - I would also give them props for not coming out with a game that can be finished 
 in 10 hours... I havent kept track of my time playing, but again, that is the best part about this 
 game. I am actually at the final level and I stopped playing because I want to finish it over the 
 holiday weekend when I can enjoy the final level.
  
  All in all... well worth the ride 
::::::

::::::
UserName: project_nero
Rating: 6
Date: May 21, 2007 8:23 am PT
Review:  At first this game is pretty good, presented with a (maybe) new system The soul sucking , when 
 I initially play this game I was overwhelmingly bored though the graphics were good thats all this 
 game has to offer, not to mention the almost ever present loading screens. Unlike other 3rd person 
 shooters that enables you to instantaneously quick save without being redirected to a loading screen 
 Infernal just keeps on doing this every time you save not to mention the lack of multi player functions 
 just keeps on adding to the faults this game carries. My suggestion, RENT IT FIRST before buying, 
 and this review is my own comment about the game try playing the game we might have different POV's. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mes4ever00
Rating: 4.9
Date: May 21, 2007 8:20 am PT
Review:  This game is a good looking 3rd person shooter. But right from the get go you could see that the 
 animation was junk. The intro movie was horrible... the starting was fun jumping behind walls popping 
 out shooting every one. good times. But that is basically it. plan on doing that for th next 6-8 
 hours. if you don't die. The chapters in this game a pretty long. if you get to the end and didn't 
 freaking save plan on doing that dam chapter over again. = pain in the A** they didn't put in more 
 save points or pain to hit F5 ever couple min. you do get some cool powers but not a lot of opportunity's 
 to use them. So if you get this game for free in a Bundle from you Video card i still think most 
 people would feel ripped off 
::::::

::::::
UserName: runarjenssen
Rating: 4.6
Date: May 20, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  Infernal is one big lie. Out of the box, the game makes you believe that you're going to be on 
 the only cool side of the two in the war between good and evil. In other games, you're always the 
 good-guy one-man army who has to take on a big, evil empire or ugly green aliens/zombies to save 
 the world.
  
  Infernal, initially, dares to be different. Here, you're the bad-guy. You go around and kill good-guys. 
 COOL! you might think. But no. This game is just like EVERY other mediocre game out there. You 
 go around killing the same brain-dead guys, with the same lame weapons you've seen in a million 
 games before. Uh, no. Make that a billion games. You're evil . Exactly. Evil . It's just a word. 
 They've exchanged the old Good -word with a new Evil -word, but in the process of changing the 
 words, they forgot to change the GAME itself from the masses. It's just like every other. The story 
 is so dull that you'll find it in any James Bond Movie (well, except for the word evil ) - only 
 the Bond-movies have a deeper story (can you believe that?) .
  
  Infernal has got flashy (but dull) graphics, and the sound isn't the worst (just mediocre enough) . 
 When the technical stuff is the only thing good this game has to offer, then it's obvious that 
 it's not worth your money.
  
  I would have given this a 5.0, since it's so mediocre - but since the developer has been so bold 
 to try to fool us into thinking that this game sticks out from the crowd, I give it 4.6. It's a 
 waste of your money. Don't buy it. Don't give them an excuse to make more crappy games like this 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stif42
Rating: 5.4
Date: May 19, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first thing is that the graphics are nice but this is the only good thing in this game.
  
  When you try the demo, you fall in a never ending repetitive gameplay. Kill, drain, kill, drain, 
 again and again.
  
  When you try the full game, OMG !!!! What a big change !!! You kill, drain, kill, drain...
  
 
  This game could have been a great thing but in fact it's just a boring game with a nice look. 
 In the other way we got Lost planet who is really impressive and really fun, even if the gameplay 
 isn't original. So I suggest you to keep your money for the incoming Capcom game :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZippyDSMLee
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 10, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  This is a B or C class game based on fun which makes it worth while, the 3rd person view makes aiming 
 tricky, grenade projectorary and fire from cover need tweaking to polish the gameplay.
  
  And AIM mode would make aiming allot more fun, higher rate of grenade drops would also add to the 
 fun.
  
  The Dialog is some of the worst I have seen outside of dubbed imported games BUT its that hooky/qurkiy 
 so bad its good kind of dialog and adds a ton of charm to the game.
  
  This game might lack polish but tis fun and more of a mindless shooter than a 3rd person shooter 
 I could go over balancing issues and unique hellfire shots to each weapon, but this is a review 
 not a beging for them to change the game post.
  
  In final this is a fun lil game that dose what a game is supposed to do keep you interested and 
 gives you stuff to shoot and dead pan dialog thats so bad its funny, I enjoy this more than HL2 
 that talks to big brother while you play, wont let me play offline has horribly caped weapons a 
 crappy ending and a gimmicky physics gun, if they were more lacks on level design I would have gave 
 them a 5.
  --------------------------------------------------
  I finished the game again a few days ago using teleporting as a main way to fight, found a lot of 
 invis walls its a bit more linear than I first thought so I am docking ti a point on that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 19, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to Infernal; I mean REALLY looking forward to Infernal. The story 
 seemed to have a good base, and graphically it looked superb.
  And in many respects I was not disappointed.
  The game played well. There were a few graphical 
 hitches but, forgetting them, the game looked stunning. The main character had a decent back story 
 and seemed well rounded. Overall the game play was okay.
  
  But now for the reasons behind my low score:
  PSI Ops was a much better game. There was nothing 
 new in Infernal that PSI Ops didnt have, and do better.
  The controls were hit and miss. They would be slow when you needed to move quickly (Thank God for 
 F5) . You would find yourself stuck back against a crate when it was the last thing you would want 
 to do. This may work for console games, but for PC, IMHO, more controllable movements are the norm.
 
  It is far too easy. Some of the puzzles could be a challenge for an attempt or two, but it would 
 only take a few minutes to work out the solution, even to so called Bosses. Where did all the 
 time go? This game offers 4-5 hours game play. If you want a short game, then for Petes sake, 
 play Max Payne 2. Nuff said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lestat14
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 18, 2007 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Infernal, i thought was very enjoyable. it has some flaws to it but is entertaining nonetheless. 
 the shooting is action packed and the differing abilities are fun to play with. some slight flaws 
 to the game are things such as you can take a severe beating from the bad guys without breaking 
 much of a sweat, but a small fall will kill you immediately. this was the only thing that really 
 bugged me. but overall i found the game fun to play and action packed. The graphics were great 
 to look at and the physics realistic. it was quite entertaining to watch a monk fly through the 
 air after taking a direct hit from one of your infernally infused shots. the soundtrack played 
 well with the game, staying mellow when little was ging on and picking up once you entered combat. 
 The story behind the game is somewhat unique, or at least unique to me in the respect that such 
 a thing has a modern day setting between corporations that specialize in wet works. most games 
 of this theme that i have encountered have always been based in the dark ages and stay there. i 
 do enjoy such themed games but this was a nice change. overall this game was enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakeater2999
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 17, 2007 11:26 pm PT
Review:  Infernal is great game for 3rd person shooters fan
  
  STORY: Your name is Ryan Leneox. First you work for EhenLights (good ones) but you have become a threat 
 to so you join Black from Abyss (bad ones) and from here the fun starts with devilish powers.
  
  Graphics: The biggest highlight of this game is it's graphics. They look amazing and don't kill 
 your PC even my old card 6600 could run fine.
  
  Sound: Music in game also good changes with the situation. In firefigths nice fast music. The bad 
 thing is voice acting ,Ryan feels ok and the lips moves in weird ways.
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay is just amazing with the devilish powers it makes much more better. AI is also 
 good they use alot of cover but sometimes they act a little dumb. There are some nice guns in pistols, dual 
 pistols, flame thrower, rocket launcher but on shotgun : ( i don't know why didn't put it but it would 
 be a hell of fun to kill enemies with a shotgun.
  
  Overall: Overall it's a great game with a nice, great gameplay and devilish powers, a few bad ends 
 but they don't the fun playing this game.
  
  P. S. Forgot about the lack of multiplayer which reduces it's value 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hydrofirex
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 17, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  The graphics in this game are flat out some of the best in the industry right now. The game play 
 was fun and fast paced. Though the plot was a little 2D with a script that was at times cheesy, 
 the voice acting was actually phenom (lol) . Cheers to Lenox and Dr Claw - they absolutely saved 
 the script from really pulling the game down (a lot) . Innovative puzzles are scattered throughout 
 this progressively more challenging 3rd person (well-implemented at that) shooter. This breaks 
 up the monotony of hack and slash action game play and gives an opportunity for the neat looking 
 special powers. I especially loved teleporting dead bodies to me so I could 'eat their souls.' 
 The power system in this game shines! Weapons are diverse and interesting. Boss's present not just 
 a threat to be killed, but a challenge to over-come.
  
  I honestly thought this game was going to suck when I first picked it up, but the graphics compelled 
 me. It was worth it! Not only is every level amazingly detailed (so much so that it's hard to take 
 it all in. In the midst of game play it's actually easy to not realize how much detail is really 
 around you) , but the plot wasn't at all the worst I've ever played. The end of the game is a little 
 disappointing though. After a huge, but satisfy, boss battle you pretty much get the classic THE 
 END . Still, the journey was worth it - and while I'm on the subject; the journey was just long 
 enough for the level of content. Some might say the game is short, but for the level of game design 
 and graphics it's a reasonable length. Which isn't to say it couldn't be longer, but without fleshing 
 out the game-play/power system more things would have just gotten unplayable. There is SO much 
 potential with the concept and the implementation and I really do hope to see a sequel to this 
 game - well, only if they do take the time to add to the game play, the skills, and especially 
 the powers and what you can do with them vis-a-vis the environment and your enemies. Even just 
 a step to a crude customization aspect where you can pump hacking, or combat, or sneaking, or damage 
 dealing, or other powers... again, there is potential here.
  
  Worth playing, not a lot of replay value in my mind though. I took it on Hard in the first try 
 with very little that slowed me down. Game ran smooth as butter for me running at 1680*1050 with 
 all the settings at max on a Core 2 Duo and an X1900. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shootMasterxy
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 17, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  I have read few reviews and i don't agree with some things.40-200 h of gameplay-ridiculous! Infernal 
 is fun, good looking (i play it on very high set. on Athlon 64 4000+, radeon X1600 1GB RAM-runs great!) good 
 story, weapons, combat but it is toooo SHORT! At least they could develop 2 or 3 missions more. It's 
 not superb, not great but it's good enough! First impression was awesome but it dissapear when you 
 get view of game duration and replayability is pretty low. This game developing few years so we 
 all here expected a better (longer) game, but it's still ok.8-10 hours and bye-bye! P. S.
  
  I am from Europe and we have this game here for 3 months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hanygalal
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 15, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  A game that needs to be played! I downloaded the demo, and it was great the graphics are impressive, 
 especially the flames! Wow do they look good! But if u like the original 3rd person shooters u 
 will like this for sure! Becuase it sucks u into the storyline! The main character, LENNUX is like 
 a devilish ryan reynolds in my opinion. You also get a wide variety of cool weapons like a flame 
 thrower and shuricans. Plus you get to live on the bad side with the Devil which i think is kinda 
 cool because i mean your usually on the good side but ur not in this game! Oh no especially when 
 you see some powers you can use, like Teleportation, and Telekinesis ( which you aquire gloves for) . 
 Also regaining health by feeding on peoples souls! Awesome right! A must buy in my opinion! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutta27
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 14, 2007 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Well i am currently playing infernal and am about 2hrs into the game and he is what i think so 
 far.
  
  STORY:
  
  You play as Ryan Lennox, a renegade angel who has been cast out of heaven and had is powers taken 
 away, when in heaven he was one of their best soldiers in the fight against evil. As the game starts 
 you are recruited by Hell to realign the balance of good an evil as Good has taken out all of Hell's 
 Angels (no pun intended) . So Ryan with his new infernal powers takes the fight to heaven. the stories 
 basis is pretty good although not great i feel that allot more could deb done to make it better. 
 The voice acting is also very poor.
  
  5/10 Ok but should have had more work put into
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  This game is a 3rd person shooter the lends most of its controls from 1st 
 person, i think this works very well and is very smooth. The game is fun to play but not great 
 can be a little tedious in parts and not much variety in game play it seems to be run and gun and 
 thats it, The infernal powers bring a little fun into the game play and also a little strategy, 
 and i mean a little as you cannot use you powers in highly lit places or places of worship. When 
 you enter theses places you lose all your manna so cannot cast your powers so you have to figure 
 out when and where is the best place to use it before you lose all the manna stored up by going 
 into a church. You Store up manna pretty simply by killing, this is also how you get ammo and health 
 (extracting it from dead monk) . Therein lies another problem i have with the game all the bad guys 
 are the same, act the same look the same so it feels like you are fighting the same person over 
 and over again. The wepons are your basic assault rifle, pistol, smg you know like in every game 
 but there is also what i have seen so far a throwing star which is pretty original and quite cool. 
 Another thing that is cool is that you can use your infernal power to give your weapon a little 
 extra juice if you right click instead of left click to shoot you weapon and infernal power becomes 
 one for a 1hit kill. Cut scenes now this is where the game annoys me, there are too many little 
 cut scenes that are unnecessary or could have been done in game.
  
  7/10 Good but a little tedious in places
  
  GRAPHICS AND SOUND
  
  The Game looks great 
 and i was happy too see that it also runs on low end systems and actually looks pretty good on 
 those too.
  The game sounds great too very eerie in places the sound really pulls you into the game play.
 
  
  Graphics 9/10 Sound 8/10
  
  Overall
  7/10
  
  So i feel a good game but not quite there to be a great but it will probably keep me occupied till 
 halo 3 or paper Mario (not out in uk yet) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jasonavs1
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 14, 2007 9:54 am PT
Review:  If your looking for a next version of Sierra's FEAR... unfortunately this is not even close. I thought 
 that the combat and environmental aspects were great but I felt that it could have been pushed 
 towards a more enveloping plot. As a FPS were there is a constant amount of cool gun-play (realistic 
 damage) , and the basic AI seemed a little interesting. I guess I'm more towards the whole story...
 
  
  It might be showing my age I guess....
  
  I am using a a X1600 (AGP not PCI-Express) with a Pentium4 3.6 gig and a gig ram so I guess the 
 performance was adequate but not overly demanding.
  I admit.. I was entertained enough to want to play more but after a few levels I got tired of the 
 routine. I'd recommend this game after the price drops to the 19.00 level.... but not before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karl319
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 18, 2009 5:41 am PT
Review:  Infernal is a relatively unknown game to the common gaming populace. Although it's been in development 
 for a fair while.
  
  So lets get right to it... First of, Infernal is no more than it is meant to be, it's nothing revolutionary, 
 yet it's nothing horrid. It does what it's meant to do exceedingly well. And that is to be a third 
 person action shooter.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Infernal is 3rd person, for the main part of the game. Standard controls apply as such. It's pretty 
 straightforward, aim, shoot, duck, jump, cover and so forth, a load of guns and all that.
  
  The game has 3 settings of difficulty, all of which are good at being what they say, easy is 
 "too easy" , medium is "just right" and hard is "this is getting old fast".
  
  The A. I. for the most part is iffy, they do dodge and jump from you, they shoot from behind cover, 
 lean over corners and fire blindly and try to get around you. But at times they're pretty damn 
 stupid, they run right at you and chase you, letting us use the old old old tactic of camping behind 
 a corner shooting people that come through the door. Tho this has, for me, been a bit of a rare 
 issue, it's still there.
  
  You can take cover behind pillars, walls, items and lean out from them to pop shots, which is pretty 
 fun, a bit buggy tho, since it can be hard to get into the position to lean from, and then to get 
 out of it to respond to new threats.
  
  Theres a fair amount of guns in the game from pistols to dual pistols, throwing stars, smg's, assault 
 rifles, rocket launchers, grenades and so forth. Tho ammo, is, rather ... rare at most times, so 
 you can't just spray and pray, gotta try aim a bit. Else you'll have to resort to the games rather 
 limited punch-melee attacks, which will most likely end up in your death.
  
  The game also gives the player "powers" in the course of the game from teleporting from A to B, 
 to telekinesis, lifting objects and making them teleport to another spot on the map, or you can 
 use it on humans as well.
  Also there are simpler powers which are essential to some of the boss fights, such as shooting 
 flames from your hand.
  
  Now that's a small problem in the game, the first boss-es can be a biiiiit hard to guess on what 
 to do, since the game doesn't give you much hints on what to do. I for one didn't know I had to 
 use my special power to shoot the first boss... and kept shooting with regular ammo which I wasn't 
 supposed to do.
  
  But most fights give you hints.
  
  And one last feature is the way you re-gain health and search bodies, by holding the action key 
 for a few seconds and draining the corpses. Tho it gets repetitive fast, it's sadly the only way 
 to get your ammo and health + mana.
  
  All in all the gameplay albeit pretty straightforward is, satisfying.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The 
 graphics can look plain super at times, yet at times they can look "alright". At first glance it 
 can seem like it's using the unreal3 engine but when you look closely, you'll notice the lack of 
 actual dx9 features in most parts. The character models however look great, lots of bumpmapping.
 
  
  The game also has physics, ragdolls and regular prop physics, they do their job just fine, tho 
 the ragdolls at times can spazz around a little bit.
  
  But the game is pretty low-ender friendly, you wont need a godly machine to run it at pretty high 
 settings with a steady framerate. The animations when people talk are a bit lifeless tho, they're 
 a bit old-fashioned... and lack the lip-synch features of modern games like Oblivion and Half-Life 
 2. All in all it looks just fine.
  
  Sound:
  
  Ach, a bit of a downside, well, a major downside in the game is the voice-acting which is pretttttttty 
 damn amateur... they don't really fit the characters, and they sound like they're joking around 
 more than voiceacting.
  
  Tho the story itself isn't too engaging either, and the voiceacting doesn't make up for it either... 
 guns and other sounds are good tho, and the mostly short soundtrack isn't bad either.
  
  Value:
  
  Hey, being a "bad guy" for a change, even tho it doesn't feel like it, is fun right?
 
  And we haven't had a good action game for the PC in a while, right?
  
  Tilt:
  
  9 of 10.
  
  All in all, a solid game and it does what it's meant to do the way it's supposed 
 to be. Worth a look at if you can excuse a few shortcomings, and no multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabriel92
Rating: 8
Date: May 13, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  such a good game to play when u have nothing to do nothing special at lest from the demo but its 
 worth taking a look. FOOR ALL U RESIDENT EVIL FANS OUT THER GIVE THIS GAME A LOOK. itsa  
  ffffffffffffffffffffffffffff fffffffffffff 
 fffffffffffffffff fffffffffff ffffffffffffff ffffffffffffff ffffffffffffff ffffffffffffff ffffffffffffff 
 ffffffffffffff fffffffffffffffff ffffffffffffffff ffffffffffffffffffff ffffffffffff f ff f f ff 
 ff ff f f f ff f f f ff f f f f ff ff f f f ff sef asef a df df df ad fad fa df adf adf adf d f 
 dasf df ad fad f adsf ad fa df asdf adf a df sadf adsf df d fdasf d f adf ad fad fd f daf adf adf 
 ad df sd f sd dsf dsa fads fd f dsa da dfasf asdf dsaf ds f 
::::::

::::::
UserName: screamingknife
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 13, 2007 7:42 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  Amazing graphics, Resident Evil point of view, devour people's souls.
  
  The Bad:
  The storyline is sort of cheesy, falls from short distances kill you, some puzzles 
 are just too simple.
  
  Gameplay:
  The third-person view reminded me a little of Resident Evil, and the cover system is like that 
 of Rainbow Six: Vegas. A couple problems are that he climbs up ladders very slowly and if you fall 
 from a short distance, you die. Also, to get more ammo during a firefight, you have to actually 
 walk up to the corpses of the dead and feed from them, which brings you into your enemies' line 
 of fire.
  
  Graphics:
  What can I say? They're amazing. Some textures could use a little work, but I think they're only 
 sharpened if you have a PhsyX card.
  
  Sound:
  Decent voice acting, could use a little work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: valeron1988
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 12, 2007 1:58 am PT
Review:  cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool vcool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: BunaJ
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 11, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. You are a fallen angel. Lucifer, or the devil asks you to join his ranks, 
 as the name implies, you do. The first thing you will notice, is the amazing graphics. They are 
 one of the best on the pc. I especially like the muzzle flashes. However, some of the character 
 models do not look good. Sound is good, but nothing unbelievable. The gameplay is different than 
 most games. It is third person, but fairly tactcle. Your health does not recharge, but rather you 
 take it from you dead foes. The weapons feel extremely good. I would have been fine if you kept 
 the pistil the whole game. You character also looks very cool. The fire effects on you characters 
 are nice as well. I will be honest, I did not expect to like this game. But, for some reason I 
 downloaded the demo. I fell in love right away. If you like action, or shooting games, I highly 
 recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: depakjan
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 11, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  The best graphics a game can offer u............ it's juzt amazing ....... everything is detailed 
 and FLAMES are great.... u can absolutely Feel the flames... HOT and Blazing......... there is 
 no performance issue in this game and also there is not even a single crash for the whole time........ 
 there r two bugs i found out , one is the character gets stuck at one place and u have to struggle 
 to move ... anyway u can move after a while....... the other thing is voice acting can still be 
 better........ in total this is the best game... action packed with some puzzles..... keeps u engaged 
 all the time.... this game is recommended for every action loving guys.......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ckyman24
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 11, 2007 6:33 am PT
Review:  I downloaded the demo, and it was great the graphics are impressive, especially the flames! Wow 
 do they look good! But if u like the original 3rd person shooters u will like this for sure! Becuase 
 it sucks u into the storyline! The main character, LENNUX is like a devilish ryan reynolds in my 
 opinion. You also get a wide variety of cool weapons like a flame thrower and shuricans. Plus you 
 get to live on the bad side with the Devil which i think is kinda cool because i mean your usually 
 on the good side but ur not in this game! Oh no especially when you see some powers you can use, 
 like Teleportation, and Telekinesis ( which you aquire gloves for) . Also regaining health by feeding 
 on peoples souls! Awesome right! A must buy in my opinion! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyire
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 10, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  In Infernal you play as Ryan, a former EtherLight agent (consider him some sort of fallen angel) 
 that gets a call from a man in the Abyss agency (yeah, hell basically) , Lucis Black offers him 
 power and invites him to come work for him in the Abyss agency, ofcourse you accept and gets quickly 
 throwned into action as Blacks right hand and brute.
  
  The gameplay is rather fast paced and a lot of fun if you get a hang of it. It's actually a very 
 simple line up as you play form a 3rd person perspective and blast your way from mission to mission, 
 and your quiet often forced to hit the dirt and takecover in the game, it's all done rather smoothley 
 as you just press upp against an object to push your back against it. From cover you can shoot 
 around corners by just sticking out your weapon and firing of a couple rounds, ofcourse this lower 
 your accuracy but it is nonetheless helpful in some situations. But when it comes to the real tricky 
 fights your special Abyss powers are the most helpful way out. For example you can use the teleport 
 ability to make a quick jump from your hideout to right behind your enemies, this is very useful 
 and alot of fun for the most :P.
  
  The graphics aren't exactly top-notch but they are still good to look at and the game deserves 
 a little extra star for that since it runs so nice on even older computers. I have already tried 
 it on my now three year old laptop and it ran almost flawless, and I didn't have to go below meduim 
 for it either, however I didn't play the whole game on my laptop since I have a high-end computer, 
 so their might be some problems later on that I don't know of with low-end computers.
  
  Sounds were mostly good except for some of the voice acting (and lip movements for that part) . 
 The only really fitting voice were those of Ryan and Black, the others mostly just passed right 
 below average. The soundtrack on the other hand was real nice, it functioned more than naturally 
 to every situation in the game.
  
  However, the lack of a multiplayer for this game lowers it's total value as it only lasts for so 
 long. I would suggest that their could have been a rather nice multiplayter part for this game 
 if they had tried to make one, the Abyss vs EtherLight in TDM. Oh, well you can't get everything.
 
  
  So besides the lack of a multiplayer and some other small issues, this is one game for the shelf, 
 it's something that you should play just for the experince of it all... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 9, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Story: You were an angel? Now you work for the Devil? Something like that.
  
  Graphics: Pretty
  
  Audio: Voiceovers aren't as bad as you may expect but still less than average
 
  
  Missions: Press buttons, Kill bad guys, Bosses, escape, etc.
  
  Features: Psychics puzzles are cool along with you Psi powers, not the most original, can get annoying
 
  
  Multiplayer: None
  
  Requirements: Average
  
  Weapons: Nothing special other than your powerups with your hellish secondary fires
  
  The 
 Good: Makes you think, Psychics and graphics, Polished in most ways
  
  The Bad: Voice Acting is meh, Gets repeatitive
  
  The Ugly: Tediousness.
  
  Replay Ability: 
 Short
  
  The Bottom Line: It is a nice looking shooter that pulls from previous Psi games but does it better. 
 Wait until the price drops or check out the demo before you buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrandArchitect
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 9, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  Good game play and nice special abilities like teleporting and eating souls for heath and goods. 
 But graphically lacking with many visible brush gaps (ie look at the base of the cliff walls on 
 the first part of mission one before you get to the second floor and see light bleed thought the 
 cracks) . The locations on the other hand look wonderful and rich. Animation was sub par namely 
 the faces of characters, The main character looks rather stiff in some actions. The weapons felt 
 good and lethal but throwing grenades was cumbersome and so I rarely used them. Melee was the only 
 bad part about this game as many attacks seemed to pass through smoke after the first landed, and 
 being force into melee if the enemy got too close was annoying.
  
  Part for the visuals having a few problems the game was fun and enjoyable till the end, just a 
 little short IMHO, so I give it 3 out of 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casper008
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 9, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  Graphics nice and pretty, not the best but pretty. Game runs pretty smooth.
  I did play it on easy and the guys do take alot of shots unless you aim for the head (bang instant 
 kill) . I did not find to much ammo for the good weapons around so i downloaded an infinite ammo 
 trainer (i know it's cheating alittle but what the heck lol. their is plenty of the regular ammo 
 about. I think it was 5 levels in total but they are kind of long. The body searching does get 
 alittle repetitive but you need to search in order to find some security card keys to open doors. 
 I believe their were only 3 guys with keys in the entire game. But it's like sucking souls like 
 the game, soul reaver game pretty cool. You get teleportation and teleknises, teleportation is 
 cool but when you have to teleport to 2 or 3 spots at the same time holy cow, not to bad but takes 
 alittle time and you must do this within a few seconds or the doors you just unlock will close. 
 overall to to bad. weapons nice variety and the infernal weapon mode is cool but you don't need 
 to use it as much to progress in the game of course excluding the bossess.
  
  No real secrets in the game, i blew up and shot to hell just about everything.
  went back after 
 i finished a level to replay that same level again but nothing, oh well.
  
  Some levels are pretty linear so don't worry about getting lost. bosses some are a challenge but 
 what the heck you need some kind of a challenge in a game. Last boss i thought i was done but behold 
 part 2.
  
  Overall i did have fun with this game finished it but no replay value, gameplay and graphics gave 
 it 9 tilt more like 2 but i did give it a 4. which drop my rating down to a 6.9. Good game to play 
 1 time and then uninstall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdas_sbl
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 9, 2007 12:32 am PT
Review:  The game starts inside a remarkably decorated bar, the floor lights and glimmer from windows of 
 which was something unprecedented-it was extraordinary. My 6600GT could handle the game well, but 
 all guys on lesser chips beware- Infernal does take some processing!
  The main character Ryan Lennox-a fallen angel recruited by the Devil to restore the balance between 
 good and evil, looks something in between James-Bond and Robin-Hood. There are loads of powers 
 and weapons which he gains as the game progresses- Plasma Gun, Lasers, AK-57, rotary-blades, etc. 
 There are also some spendid visuals as he pulls out the souls from fallen enemies and throws fiersome 
 blows of power (something u'll find in sci-fi movies like Covenant) to stun his enemies.
  
  There is also a girl (who looks like FBI-cop turned lover) who tries to save her and reunites eventually. 
 The games focusses mainly on supernatural elements although there are real-world instances which'll 
 keep you attached to it. If you've liked Oblivion, you'll find this game very appealing , specially 
 while looking for hidden objectives!
  I haven't completed the game yet; when I do, there'll be more of it. Happy Gaming!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: head_hunter986
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 22, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Infernal a game of angelic and demonic powers, the essence of the game is solving puzzles and blowing 
 the pants of your enemies with a range of different weapons, awsome physics, when you shoot your 
 enemy they recoil and crumple superbly. Infernal puts you in the shoes of an ex angel operative 
 who is now being hunted by his former employees, after escaping a attempt of his life you encounter 
 a darker presence who gives you the opportunity to work for the darker side of life. Powers like 
 soul eating and teleportation are acquired and you can use these powers to your advantage and kill 
 enemies in ways which they will never see coming like teleport behind them and shoot some 9mm rounds 
 into the back their head.
  Accompanied by stunning graphics and sound this game makes you feel as though you are in the game 
 and gives you great joy. Only problem with the game at its first release there are a number of 
 glitches which include the models of characters melting a little but this only occurs rarely, hopefully 
 a patch will be released to fix these problems, that being said these rare glitches do not take 
 away any enjoyment out of the game.
  
  This is a superb game not to be missed by fans of shooters, definitely buy this game and play it, 
 it has lots of replay value and is constantly unpredictable giving great gameplay.
  This game has everything a good shooter needs.
  9.9/10*** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeus_gb
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 4, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  I read the preview on Infernal and I thought wow this looks like it's going to great game. For 
 the most part I was right, it's a pure action game, nothing more and nothing less.
  
  The graphics in the game are quite impressive and they don't kill your PC at higher resolutions 
 like most newer games do. The sound effects is quite good as well, quite similar to Max Payne come 
 to think of it. The music in the game is of the rock persuasion which is always a good thing in 
 an action game. The only thing that slightly lets the sound department down is the rather dull 
 voice acting by some of the characters. Ryan is the only character that has half decent voice acting.
 
  
  The AI is OK for the most part but it can be stupid at times. They don't seem to flank you or work 
 as a team so far as i've noticed but they will duck behind cover and use the games cover fire feature 
 to lay down fire while being relatively safe.
  
  The weapons are of the standard affair of pistols, machine guns, rocket launcher, flamethrower 
 etc. Surprisingly there's no shotgun, which I find throughly strange. The daemonic powers are quite 
 good and well implemented. You get powers such as teleport, life force drain and a couple of others. 
 The powers aren't anything new by any means but the game does fit nicely around the powers.
  
  There are a few things that let the game down.
  First of all the whole falling from a relatively 
 small height kills you instantly thing, which is just plain not in keeping with the game. Ryan 
 (the main character) has powerful daemonic powers so why would a short fall kill him?!?!?!?
  Second would be when you reload the weapon without using the left over ammo you lose it. Why?!?!?!?
 
  Thirdly no shotgun. What decent third person action game doesn't have a shotgun?!?!?!? Overall 
 the game is a great pure action game with a few puzzles thrown in and it doesn't pretend to be 
 anything else. If you like your action pure then this is the game for you but if your wanting a 
 game like PSI OPS then you may want to look else where because this isn't it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BJonesUK
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 2, 2007 11:44 am PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to Infernal; I mean REALLY looking forward to Infernal. The story 
 seemed to have a good base, and graphically it looked superb.
  And in many respects I was not disappointed.
  The game played well. There were a few graphical 
 hitches but, forgetting them, the game looked stunning. The main character had a decent back story 
 and seemed well rounded. Overall the game play was okay.
  
  But now for the reasons behind my low score:
  PSI Ops was a much better game. There was nothing 
 new in Infernal that PSI Ops didnt have, and do better.
  The controls were hit and miss. They would be slow when you needed to move quickly (Thank God for 
 F5) . You would find yourself stuck back against a crate when it was the last thing you would want 
 to do. This may work for console games, but for PC, IMHO, more controllable movements are the norm.
 
  It is far too easy. Some of the puzzles could be a challenge for an attempt or two, but it would 
 only take a few minutes to work out the solution, even to so called Bosses. Where did all the 
 time go? This game offers 4-5 hours game play. If you want a short game, then for Petes sake, 
 play Max Payne 2. Nuff said. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
