-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Insaniquarium Deluxe
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/insaniquariumdeluxe/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fast-clicking action.
 Lots of interesting bonuses and equipment.
 Screensaver mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Aliens are lame.
 Free version isn't that much worse.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 25, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.9
Critic Score: 9.0, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 347 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Value Software
Developer: Flying Bear
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Apr 25, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Insaniquarium Deluxe is an addictive game... But the "deluxe" part of the package isn't worth $20. 
 

  Insaniquarium Deluxe provides a fast-clicking experience that's several orders of magnitude crazier 
 than your typical real-life aquarium. You have to click around your fish tank constantly to keep 
 your various aquatic friends fed, healthy, and happy. As they swim around, they'll discharge different 
 types of valuables you can pick up and reinvest into new fish, better food, and other goods. In 
 a foolish non-sequitur, an evil alien will occasionally warp into the tank, and it'll gobble up 
 your fish unless you click it to death quickly with your mouse. Insaniquarium Deluxe has some cool 
 features -- like 28 bonus "pets" that help you maintain your tank, and the ability to turn collectible 
 fish into screensavers -- but the online Java version of the game maintains most of the addictive 
 flavor, and it doesn't cost $20. If you're already a big Insaniquarium fan, Deluxe may be worth 
 a look, though.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: nathan6694
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Insaniquarium is a great game i like never play pc games and this is the one game i have been wanting 
 i could just never find
  but then it came with bejewled twist
  so u have to feed fish and take care of them and fight bosses
  after u win each round u get a 
 new dude which is cool
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  why do these 
 reviews have to be so long well check me out on youtube
  nathan6694
  i make video game collection slideshows and a lot of south park if u like south park u should check 
 out my videos.
  thanks
  nathan6694
  a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p r s t u v w x y z 
  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 
            
 
            
::::::

::::::
UserName: smadiso1
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 19, 2007 7:02 am PT
Review:  My wife found Insaniquarium Deluxe on Yahoo about two years ago and was hooked immediately. When 
 she introduced me to it I wasn't too into it at first. But after a few days of feeding fish, blasting 
 aliens and building up an aquarium of my own it did start to grow on me. Here's some of my reactions 
 to what the game offers.
  Gameplay: 6
  There are four modes to this game: Story, Time, Survival and Virtual. The story mode plays the 
 game through four tanks with four stages each which get more difficult as the game progresses. 
 Time gives you ten minutes to collect as much cash as you can. Survival gives you the chance to 
 try to clear a tank as fast as possible as alien attacks become harder and prices continually increase. 
 These three stages follow the same basic gameplay: feed your fish to get them to grow and reach 
 maturation stages that produce more money, buy special fish to get more money, protect your fish 
 from invading aliens and eventually unlock various pets that can help you along the way. That's 
 all there is to it. The virtual mode gives you the chance to buy unique fish and use your collected 
 pets to produce a personalized aquarium. You can use this aquarium as a screen saver and continously 
 earn shells your fish drop to buy more interesting fish and bonus aquarium items. In the end, it 
 all sums up to this: just keep clicking until your hand seizes up. Graphics: 7
  While graphics are basic they really do look good. The colors schemes on characters and the backgrounds 
 really look great so your eyes will never have trouble taking in the sights.
  Sound: 6
  Sounds do get repetitive though there are some funny ones here and there. The music gets annoying 
 on some stages though I have to admit the setting created on stage three is really nice and fits 
 the background well.
  Value: 9
  I rank the value so high for one reason only: replay. Granted once you clear out the story mode, 
 set an insanely quick score on time trial and survival and eventually unlock all the fish you want 
 for your aquarium it might get a bit boring. However, I always find myself coming back just to 
 see what other fish I might have missed in the aquarium or to see if just maybe I can shed one 
 second off that great time. It's also a good game to keep around for young kids for gamers who 
 are just starting a family. The simpilicty of the design makes it easy for young kids to pick up 
 quickly. Even my toddler enjoys just watching the fish swim back and forth each day. To a hardcore 
 gamer this won't be worth much. To those who are wanting something to keep back for future kids 
 you may want to do just that with this one.
  Tilt: 8
  All around this is just a fun little game. Yes there are better looking, better playing, better 
 sounding, better etc... games out there. But for just general fun and a quick way to get it this 
 game does a great job of delivering. Plus it has fart sounds and what game isn't fun when it has 
 that? If you can find a copy of this consider picking it up just to play with on a casual basis. 
 And your kids will likely thank you for it too later on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azurewraith92
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jun 19, 2007 11:13 pm PT
Review:  Insaniquarium Deluxe is an arcade-style fish tank simulator with a twist. Essentially, you must 
 feed your fish to help them grow. Once they get bigger, they'll start dropping coins. You collect 
 these coins for cash to buy new fish, food upgrades, or egg pieces. To beat a level, you must purchase 
 3 egg pieces. The egg then hatches into a helper that aids you in some way, such has helping to 
 feed your fish or giving you extra cash.
  
  The major twist is that every so often, an alien (or multiple aliens) will appear in your tank 
 and try to eat your fish. You must kill the aliens and protect your fish. If all your fish die, 
 its game over.
  
  The game starts out really fun actually. There's something really addictive about raising and protecting 
 your fish, and its exciting to unlock new helpers for your tank. The game also implements various 
 twists in each tank as you progress through the tank, such as carnivores that drop lots of cash 
 but need to eat baby guppies to survive or potions that you can drop in your tank which improve 
 fully grown fish but instantly kill smaller ones. There's also a fair variety in the aliens that 
 attack your tank.
  
  The main adventure mode takes about 3 hours to finish. This is really the bulk of the game, so 
 its kind of disappointing that it's so short. You can play it over to gain points to unlock 4 more 
 bonus helpers, or try one of the 3 other modes: time trial, challenge or virtual tank.
  
  TIme trial is pretty self-explanatory. Challenge mode forces you to complete a level with ever 
 inflating prices on the items and enemies that continuously get more challenging. Both of these 
 modes give you points that you can spend on bonus helpers or in the virtual tank. The virtual tank 
 allows you to buy and feed fish for your tank, which you can set as a screen saver. Some people 
 may find this interesting, as depending on which day of the year you play, there's different items 
 in the shop. Overall though, threre's really not much to see here.
  
  Insaniquarium Deluxe is a really fun game at first, but its over too soon, and there's little to 
 keep your attention after beating the main game once. Retailing at 20 bucks, Insaniquarium just 
 doesn't offer much bang for your buck and you'll likely end up feeling cheated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew919
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 27, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  This game was very great. The interactivity (clicking that eel pet and walter the penguin) and 
 the story board was great! I hope this becomes a best seller. I just dont like when you need lots 
 of coins to buy a egg then the money goes away. Not too much sound but theres the secret sound 
 effects.
  Graphics were 2d and has deatail and more so id say its very good . I only got angie (pet) . I love 
 this game and its creativity. The only bad thing is that they made a nose and a elephent as a pet 
 in the game. Im creeped out enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PETIKPO93
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 20, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Insaniquarium Deluxe, highly addictive game, incorporates many factors like fishes, aliens, and 
 sea money denominated shells. In this cool game, you have to feed your fishes in order to keep 
 them alive, sometimes with vegetarian food, sometimes with fishes, and sometimes with stars. In 
 the game, there are 28 pets what will help you through the different game modes, 2 of them, unlocked 
 until finish the adventure, 1 of them when you finish the adventure mode. You can use the game 
 as a screensaver, winning shells, the sea money, when you aren't doing nothing *laugh*. The cheats 
 in this game aren't so useful, only changes the background, the appearance of the fishes and some 
 sounds; but there's a cheat , used to give shells to the other users. In order to use this, you'll 
 have to finish the first tank. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AuburnAttack21
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2006 2:45 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to money, alien fighting, and just plain fun, this is the game for you. You can also 
 say that you have pets to your friends! One of the best parts is if you have a lot of fish the 
 whole screen is filled with coins and diamonds! However, the real best part is your own Virtual 
 Tank, the pinnacle of pet owning. Just remember that if you take care of your fish, mind the aliens, 
 and collect everything possible, you can have a lot of fun in this game! But remember that you 
 have to mind them often. If you do that, everything else is plain fun! I think this is one of the 
 best games Real Arcade can offer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gtdriver
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 23, 2006 12:51 am PT
Review:  Insaniquarium, made py PopCap Games, lets you control your own fish tank. All this happens by feeding 
 your fish, buying new fish and items, grow them up, collect money and egg pieces. You need feeding 
 when your fishes turn yellow. You can buy new guppys, upgrade your food quality (what makes them 
 grow up faster) food quantity (normally there can be only 1 food on the screen at the same time, 
 but you can make the number higher) buy new fishes, and finally, better weapons and egg pieces! 
 When you feed your fish, they get bigger and level up. When they are at bigger than normal level, 
 they do drop coins. Level 2 fishes drop silver coins and Level 3 gold, but if you give a level 
 3 fish a star potion, it grows to level 4 and starts to drop stars! You collect the coins by clicking 
 them. Weapons? Really! Sometimes some kind of Alien transforms to your tank , and you need a gun 
 to shoot it down ^-^. Some kinds of alien are kinda crazy and stupid. But where do you need egg 
 pieces? After you have bought the extra type of fish, you can buy egg pieces. After three egg pieces 
 are bought, you get a new pet and the level is completed. Pets are really different. Momma fish 
 makes new guppys free, and Itchy the Swordfish helps you with those aliens. Remember: This game 
 is really, really addictive!!
  
  At PopCap. com you can play a free online version of Insaniquarium, but its nothing if compared 
 to Deluxe Version. You can play Deluxe 60 minutes free, but after that you have to pay 20 dollars 
 to play Deluxe forever!
  
  IQ Deluxe has actually nothing bad on it, if the shareware price isn't counted. Download Deluxe 
 and give it a try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ernice
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 3, 2006 11:09 pm PT
Review:  i picked up this game only because i was pretty bored at home and wanted a game to fill the void.
 
  but surprisingly, it not only helped me to past that short span of time, but it ate up the next 
 few hours of my time for the following few days
  such is the pull of the game. 
  its premise is simple, grow your tank, feed your fish, and well, protect them from aliens. haha. 
 upgrade your weapons and food stock and survive for as long as the time permits.
  sounds silly does it not ? but once you start, believe me, you will find it really entertaining. 
 and not only that, its fun for the whole family. i'm sure your girlfriend would enjoy it too, and 
 your younger siblings, maybe even older ones too. parents.. ok, perhaps not for them. haha
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: graham19900
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 29, 2006 3:30 am PT
Review:  Insaniqaurium is extremely fun for the goal of the game (look after fish, just like a real fish 
 tank) only you need to fight off monsters or feed the monster fish food until it explodes of over 
 eating. In the game you get to choose from a wide range of pets but you only get to use three in 
 the tank at once, these pets will help you to look after your fish by hiding them when the monster 
 comes, feeding them, bringing them back to life when their floating to the bottom of the tank and 
 fighting the monster with you.
  
  To kill monsters you click on them as your cursor turns into a gun once the monster appears unless 
 it is the monster that you have to feed in which case buying better food and more will help to 
 feed it too much faster or if you do need to shoot it you can upgrade your gun and shoot on the 
 opposite angle of which direction you want the monster to go.
  
  To get to the next tank and unlock more pets you need to buy a whole egg, the egg comes in pieces 
 (about 3-4) . When you have finished the "story" mode you can play challenge mode where the price 
 of everything goes up rapidly and the monsters get stronger until you buy the entire egg at which 
 time you will go through to the bonus round where you have to try catch as many shells as possible 
 by clicking on them and if you click on the same type you get combo bonus and the shells are worth 
 more each time. The purpose of the shells is that you can buy different tanks, special pets and 
 different potions etc. The only way to get shells is when you buy an egg, the bonus round and if 
 you go into the virtual tank, where the special fish are, these special fish whiile getting bigger 
 drop shells that are worth more as they grow.
  
  Overall this game provides hours of entertainment for all ages and is extremely good for its size 
 and get be downloaded for free (trial) from www. pogo. com or can be brought for approximately $10 
 using credit/debit card. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xtreme_Man1ak
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 28, 2006 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Not only is this game insanely fun to play to try and unlock everything from the back stories to 
 the secret 6 characters that you have to buy with shells, but it keeps my niece busy for hours 
 on end, and that's all I really ask for
  
  the shiny colors, the intense clicking gameplay, its one of those guilty pleasure classics that 
 you play for ten minutes before you go to school each day and even sometimes longer if you really 
 wanna just relax
  
  overall, i recommend it, i mean hey, why spend 60 bux on a next gen game when this one is right 
 down your weekly allowance budget alley for the same amount of fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wormri
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2006 9:52 pm PT
Review:  "what a nonesense! fish who drop coins? what an idiotic game!" you may say, but although it is 
 such an idiotic idea, it does the magic.
  insaniquarium has good graphics, and nice music which can make youf feel in a giant Aquarium with 
 crazy fish, the gameplay is ver very cute, you feed fish so they'll grow and give you money, and 
 then buy more fish. upgrade foods, multiply the numbers of foods you can throw, buy cool fish and 
 even fight alien. so if you have spare time try this game would you?
  oh i need to fill that box... well.... the money comes in coins and different shapes, it is dropped 
 by fish and sometimes fish pets, the game is also revoulutionery in the category of date.. yes.. 
 you may find it in other game but this one's very cool... the shop and fish in virtual tank (where 
 fish can't die) is changing every day and you must check it if you want to belive.
  
  any way- you like virtual pets? buy... (or download XD) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madmenno
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 2, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  A nice and simple concept. Simple to play and very addictive to people who just like to play simple 
 games like tetris or pong.
  
  Prepare for a click frenzy and realy get a pause when your hand hurts Feed your fishes, defend 
 them from enemy's and pick up money to buy new/better food and weapons.
  
  The cartoony look fits the game but inn my opinion they didn't spet enough time on the graphics, 
 but hey, i never bought a game becaus it has nice graphics.
  
  Anyway a must for the simpel gamer who just wants to spent some time in his lunchbreak. A gamer 
 that realy expects a good game that will last months and months should stay away from this title. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bypedd
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 11, 2005 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Insaniquarium is what it is: A small, level-based game playable on a coffee break. Instead of starting 
 from scratch each time, however (as one often does with many coffee break games) , the game keeps 
 track of your progress in the adventure mode. This leads to a mildly challenging, but incredibly 
 absorbing game. Definitely the most fun I've had in 10 minute increments in a while.
  
  The gameplay is simple: Keep your fish alive by feeding them, and every so often they'll drop coins 
 (with greater value the bigger they get) . Catch the coins by clicking on them, and the money goes 
 into your bank. With that money, you can buy more baby fish, more nutritious food (increasing the 
 time between feedings) , and other tank power ups. Fish die through starvation (after turning a 
 sickly green for a few seconds) , or through alien attack - and here we see the "insani-" prefix 
 in the title coming to light. 
  
  Every so often, an alien will pop out of nowhere and attack your fish. Your mouse then turns into 
 your weapon and you must shoot the alien until it dies. Like everything else, your weapon, too, 
 is upgradeable. If at any point all your fish are dead, you lose the level. (Fortunately, your 
 pets can never die - although they can't really save your tank if nothing else is left, will they?) 
 The goal of each level is to buy three pieces of egg shell to form a full egg. The only way to 
 obtain enough money is to grow fish and collect the money from them. 
  
  In the more advanced levels, the gameplay changes a bit: Carnivorous fish, living off of your tiny 
 baby guppies, drop gems - worth 10 times the gold coins. So now your innocent aquarium is transformed 
 into a fish-eat-fish dystopia. And it doesn't stop there - giant carnivorous fish eat the smaller 
 ones, and they drop treasure chests (again, worth 10 times the gems) . 
  
  At the end of each level (after you've bought the egg pieces) , you are rewarded with a new special 
 pet. The powers of these pets range from protecting your fish from harm by alien to popping out 
 babies every so often to slowing down the drop of coins. The catch is that you can only have three 
 pets in your tank for each level. This leads to some of the more interesting strategic choices: 
 Do you rely on the coin drops from the fish? Then you should include the turtle, who slows down 
 drop rates, and the jellyfish, who picks up coins for you. Is twitch-gaming not your thing? Protect 
 your fish using an angler, who ushers baby guppies away from aliens, and then employ the lobster, 
 who helps fight the attackers.
  
  The strategic aspect of the game was particularly rewarding in the first 10 or so stages. After 
 a little while, the pets rewarded don't have new powers, but just improved power - they catch coins 
 faster, or they defend guppies better. It's around this time that the monotony sets in. With all 
 of these options - guppies or carnivorous fish or guppy-birthing mommas - the game would soon turn 
 into a complicated affair. To prevent this, in each level you're only given at most three fish 
 options. In the beginning, you just buy guppies and feed them, collecting the coins. As you continue, 
 it is clear once the higher-cost fish reveal themselves (you don't see the carnivorous fish option 
 until a few minutes in so that your babies have grown and you have regained the money to buy more 
 fish) , how you're supposed to get the money. It is possible, although unbelievably tedious, to 
 stubbornly stick to guppy coin drops until you've amassed enough to buy the egg shell parts. Not 
 very much fun.
  
  And this is part of its downfall: Insaniquarium turns into a strictly scalable game. Everything 
 - the weapon prices, the egg cost - cost more at each level. And everything that earns you money 
 - the guppy, then the carnivorous fish both small and large - costs more than you can afford right 
 away, but pays off more than what you buy right away. So you have to do it every time - buy the 
 guppies, feed them for 3 or 4 minutes, and collect the coins. Then buy the fish-eaters, let them 
 eat baby guppies that you have to buy for them, collect the gems. Then buy the large fish-eaters, 
 collect their treasure chests, and buy for them the small fish-eaters to eat. Upgrade your weapon 
 if you want insurance - the more big fish you lose to aliens, the farther back in the process you 
 have to go.
  
  Ultimately, Insaniquarium was way more fun than I expected. But, as one would expect a huge burst 
 of entertainment to do, it trickled out until it was a test of mouse-clicking ability and patience 
 in the last several stages. Perhaps if I actually limited myself to playing during coffee breaks, 
 the fun would last much longer. But, truthfully, it was too addicting to put down. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
