-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Inside the Park Baseball
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/insidetheparkbaseball/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 21, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.0, 6.8 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 15 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Out Of The Park Developments
Genre: Baseball Management
Date:     Dec 19, 2003
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The appeal of portraying a rookie with big-league dreams and the solid stat-generation of the OOTP 
 engine make Inside the Park Baseball captivating for a few virtual seasons. 

  The first thing you need to know about Inside the Park Baseball is that it is unlike every other 
 text-based sports sim on the market. Markus Heinsohn, designer of the award-winning Out of the 
 Park Baseball (OOTP) series, has turned the genre on its head. Instead of managing a team, you 
 control the career of a single player who's aiming to become a big-league phenom. Stats and role-playing 
 go hand in hand here. As with most new ideas in gaming, this one isn't fully realized. But the 
 appeal of portraying a rookie with big-league dreams and the solid stat-generation of the OOTP 
 engine make the experience captivating for a few virtual seasons.  

          Ballplayers are created just like characters in traditional fantasy RPGs. You even allocate 
 skill points to characteristics like strength and constitution.     

  Most of the game is based on role-playing. While Inside the Park looks and sounds like a typical 
 sports management sim, with elementary graphics bearing more numbers than pictures and almost no 
 sound, it feels like a fantasy role-player. You choose a name, allocate points to stats that have 
 been ripped right out of Dungeons &amp; Dragons (strength, constitution, and so on) , pick a position, 
 and even select a personality type that subs for class. Here, though, you select from options like 
 the Gary Sheffield-like self promoter and the Nomar Garciaparra-styled team captain rather than 
 the fighter and the cleric. Finally, you divvy up skill points among abilities, like contact hitting, 
 home run power, gap power, and fielding, and await a phone call on draft day.  

  Most will find the character creation pretty simplistic. This especially holds true for experienced 
 role-playing gamers, since there are no skills to select. All you do is move numbers around in 
 preselected categories. Want to be the next Babe Ruth? Allocate points to the power skill. Want 
 to be the next Rickey Henderson? Move points to contact hitting and running speed. This results 
 in cookie-cutter big leaguers, not individuals. Having the freedom to customize ballplayers by 
 picking abilities -- for instance, perhaps a pitcher could select from a number of skills, like move 
 to first and clutch performance, or a contact hitter could select his "hot" hitting zones -- would 
 have added a lot to replayability. As it is, you're stuck with just three or four types of players, 
 and this can get boring after a few games.  

          Follow all aspects of your player's career, including tracking every single at bat from 
 A-ball to The Show.     

  Gameplay after the draft is also straightforward, thanks in part to a menu screen that puts all 
 options on a screen that shows a ballpark and the surrounding neighborhood. Just click on a building -- home, 
 the local bar, a fitness center, the stadium, and so on -- to access the tools needed to build your 
 career. Contrary to the name of the game, most of the game actually takes place  outside  of the 
 ballpark. Your career hinges on developing a good training regimen and buying the bats, batting 
 gloves, gloves, shoes, and instruction manuals needed to perform well on the field. The former 
 makes sense, as any prospect has to spend a lot of time performing bench presses and participating 
 in batting practice, but the latter clearly has more to do with D&amp; D than dugouts.  

  Equipment is handled in the same manner that weapons and magic items are handled in a fantasy RPG. 
 The only difference is that you have to purchase everything with contract money, since there are 
 no orc lairs piled up with cool shoes, nor are there arcane tomes on the art of the screwball. 
 For instance, bats come in plain-Jane $10,000 varieties and $6.2 million models, like the +10 power 
 hitting/+14 gap hitting Magic Sticks XP II, which is essentially a wooden vorpal sword.     
 

  This kills any pretensions Inside the Park has toward being true to baseball. The "magic" equipment 
 isn't even particularly well implemented, due to limited selection and a huge gap that divides 
 common equipment from the killer stuff. There are just 12 bats in the store, for example, and only 
 three are affordable when you're in the minors. Once you get beyond the trio of basic models, which 
 retail for no more than $13,000 each, the sticker price rockets to more than a million. So forget 
 about choosing lumber until you reach the majors. All equipment types aren't quite so unbalanced, 
 although this problem  is  still an issue with the rest of your gear.  

          Great deals on rare equipment, which can boost your skills, can be found on the Bbay auction 
 Web site.     

  Other options are gimmicky yet entertaining. Setting up the training regimen noted above is a simple 
 matter of filling a schedule with exercises that build strength and flexibility. Targets are provided 
 so you can maximize workouts without damaging your fitness level and getting into trouble on the 
 field. In about five minutes, you can set up a program that serves your player well for most of 
 his career.  

  Adjacent buildings offer more goodies. The local sports bar provides you with the opportunities 
 to get into a fight or to pick up a babe who might "boost your mood" for the next day's game. Over 
 at the Internet caf, you can browse equipment listings on the Bbay auction Web site. You 
 might find a bargain or something rare that isn't sold at the sports store, like the amazing Teddy 
 Ballgame bat (+13 contact, +14 power, +12 gap) , which is an instrument that might get you into 
 the Hall of Fame alongside Ted Williams. You can visit the front office to negotiate a contract 
 extension after making it to the majors, or you can go home to muse over your statistics. Just 
 don't get too upset with these numbers or your position in the batting order, because there aren't 
 any options to place demands on a team or to simply walk out.  

  And that's about it. Oh, yeah, the baseball. As with the sister OOTP series, the schedule can be 
 simmed by the day, week, month, or season, or you can follow every at bat in every game. The presentation 
 is very similar to that of OOTP 5. Overall team stat-generation seems right on the money, which 
 isn't surprising, since the game uses the same engine as the impressively accurate OOTP 5. The 
 big difference is that you can directly control just a single player. However, this might not be 
 a good idea. Even though you can direct each at bat with instructions like "swing for the fences," 
 "pull the ball," and "just put it in play," manual control seems to murder your performance. Numbers 
 drastically improve when you let the game go on autopilot. In fact, you can go from struggling 
 at the Mendoza Line (batting around .200) in May to hitting .330 with power, which can launch you 
 to AAA, by the end of August.  

          The coaching staff probably wouldn't approve, but you can boost your morale by picking 
 up a floozy for the night at the sports bar.     

  Or not. While at times it's easy to take a player from A-ball to the Major Leagues within a season -- and 
 from there to a legendary career -- other times your fortune seems to be completely random. You can 
 have a fantastic rookie year and be swapped for an also-ran the day the season ends. Similarly, 
 you can be sent to the minors in the middle of a hitting streak. Slumps and streaks seem emphasized 
 to the point of numerical manic-depression. Overall rating is determined by the value of your rookie 
 card, and it bounces around too. Some games, it isn't a challenge to boost your card into the $1,000 
 stratosphere, which is occupied by the likes of Mickey Mantle. On other occasions, however, it 
 stays below $100 even if you've compiled an impressive career. All of which would be fine if you 
 could put your finger on the reasons for success and failure, but usually you can't.  

  Needless to say, Inside the Park Baseball isn't geared for hardcore stat-heads. The game also bears 
 all the hallmarks of being the first release in a series (and even the first release in a new genre) , 
 since sim times are fairly slow and so much of the sports role-playing concept remains a work in 
 progress. Still, looking at the framework and taking into account the way that designer Heinsohn 
 turned the mundane, original OOTP into the Cadillac of baseball management sims, it's clear that 
 the game has a lot of promise. And at just $19.99 on the Inside the Park Web site, it's a good 
 value. It just isn't quite ready for the big leagues yet.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
