-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Instinct
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/instinct/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Some spooky music at times.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Confusing storytelling due to time-shifting cutscenes and Russian dialogue.
 Dumb AI and positioning makes it seem like enemies want you to kill them.
 Repetitive, dull level design.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 10, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2
Critic Score: 4.5, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 3.3, 197 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Wild Hare Entertainment
Developer: Digital Spray
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     Aug 22, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Terrible AI and indecipherable dialogue are just two of the many problems afflicting this zombie 
 shooter. 

  Instinct is a Resident Evil rip-off with a first-person perspective that's a good 10 years too 
 late for the party. This creation of the aptly named Russian developer Digital Spray Studios has 
 more problems than just copying the story and bad guys from a game with a best-before date that 
 expired in the 1990s. Everything here is ineptly made and annoying, from the dumb zombie foes to 
 the terrible level design. Throw in big performance problems that regularly turn battles into slideshows 
 and you've got yet another atrocity good for a trifecta of crap.  

  The storyline appears to be a garden-variety zombie caper, with you guiding three Russian commandos 
 on a search-and-destroy mission to a secret facility in North Korea. You start off facing run-of-the-mill 
 soldiers, but immediately run into what looks to be the undead as soon as you enter the base. Or 
 so it seems. The plot continually bounces back and forth in time, with cutscenes filling in the 
 backstory only after you've completed missions. While this style of storytelling might work well 
 in the hands of a competent storyteller, it's just confusing here. You start off watching a clip 
 of a drunken Russian soldier taking out a TV a la Elvis and then plunge right into the invasion 
 of some kind of military base. If not for the blurbs on the box cover and in the manual, you wouldn't 
 have a clue what's going on until wrapping up at least three levels.  

           Meet one of the least scary zombies in gaming history. Tracksuits might be pretty frightening 
 to fashionistas, but not to anybody else.      

  Another big problem is the developer's decision to leave all of the dialogue in the original Russian. 
 While it's sweet of Digital Spray to save us from what would no doubt have been mangled English 
 dubbed by family and friends of the development team, not being able to understand anything said 
 by your comrades in the middle of firefights isn't a great alternative. Bringing up a separate 
 journal screen with subtitled dialogue is the only way to figure out what your pals are saying, 
 and this is tantamount to suicide since the action continues in the background while you're trying 
 to read. By the time you've gotten an idea of what you're supposed to be doing, the zombies on 
 your heels will usually have caught up to you and started busily pounding on your skull. Not fun. 

  But this handicap is one of the few things that makes combat in Instinct remotely challenging. 
 Enemy soldiers are total morons who frequently take cover behind explosive barrels. These barrels 
 can typically be found adjacent to all soldiers, so it's a lot easier to just target them whenever 
 spotted and then rely on the ensuing ka-boom to take out any bad guys in the neighborhood. Shooting 
 soldiers directly isn't nearly as effective or as satisfying, as they absorb a ridiculous number 
 of rounds before eating the pavement and show absolutely no signs of being shot even while you're 
 riddling them with bullets. Not surprisingly, the zombies are pretty stupid, too, although at least 
 they have the excuse of being the victims of a mind-destroying experiment gone horribly wrong. 
 Regardless, they pretty much line up to be gunned down. They pose a threat only when they attack 
 in large numbers, and even then you can still blast them to bits without much of a hassle as long 
 as you've got a little room to fall back whenever you need to reload a weapon.  

  More difficulty is provided by the level design, although that's largely because of the typically 
 terrible layout. Most of the rooms and corridors all look the same, making it easy to get turned 
 around. Getting lost is an impossibility due to the small size of the levels, at least, although 
 you'll sure get bored looking at the same grey metal walls, gas tanks, and explosive barrels over 
 and over again. It's also hard to figure out what you're supposed to do in spots. Levers are never 
 highlighted, so you can readily miss a switch that needs to be pulled to open a door. Sometimes 
 zombie attacks are only triggered by entering a certain part of a level. You can wander around 
 for ages looking for a door that doesn't exist only to eventually get attacked out of nowhere by 
 finally walking into the right place.  

  Visuals are noteworthy solely for what have to be the least scary zombies in gaming history. Many 
 of them are clad in tracksuits, so at times it seems like you're being attacked by packs of old-school 
 rappers. Few details have been incorporated in the zombie models, either. Their bodies are blurry 
 and their faces are pale blobs distinguished by rolled-up eyes and bulging veins only visible in 
 extreme close-ups. Digital Spray has tried to give the game something of a unique look through 
 a comic-book display mode, although all this does is outline everything with thin white lines that 
 obscure much of the scenery. Both the regular and comic-book graphics have serious performance 
 issues, as well. The frame rate tends to plummet when a fair number of enemies are onscreen, particularly 
 in wide-open settings. And little hitches and flat-out long freezes are common when simply turning 
 around during battles.  

           It's awfully polite of those enemy soldiers to position themselves so close to explosive 
 barrels.      

  But at least bits of the audio can be effective, particularly the music. Even though the score 
 lapses into dreary, driving techno typical of yesterday's shooters when in the middle of firefights, 
 the atmospheric music played when creeping around in the dark on zombie levels is truly spine-tingling. 
 Toss in some squelching footfalls when you walk through gore, the satisfying boom of your shotgun, 
 and the efficient rat-a-tat-tat of your automatic weapons and you've got a pretty decent-sounding 
 shooter.  

  Still, the many flaws in Instinct outweigh a few creepy tunes and shotgun blasts. All of the above 
 details should be more than enough to scare you off, but if you need further evidence, please take 
 note that saves take really long to load, there are no multiplayer modes, and that the game is 
 copy-protected by Starforce.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: NecroCroco
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 18, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Believe me, I really liked this game at first...
  I've just expected this shooter to be hours of mindless fun. Nothing more and nothing less. And 
 I'm really into such trashy 'bad attitude' games. - You know what I mean. 
  If I could've finished it at all, (and I think this is the least thing I could've request) my rating 
 would be: 6.5-7.0
  
  ... But as I got deeper into it, I've experienced nothing but technical issues. I couldn't even 
 finish it, due to these God damn flaws. After the Vivarium stage (White's perspective) incl. the 
 following cutscenes, the game 'drops' . I mean it doesn't crash at this point, the problem is of 
 different nature: ALL I GET TO SEE IS SORT OF A FLASHING RED SCREEN... (!?!?!?!) To load previously 
 saved games didn't solve the problem. And I couldn't find a patch on the net. I mean, what the 
 heck were they thinking? Who could've used a run of the mill game, that you can't even finish?! 
 One should sue the developers for releasing such broken garbage. 'Nuff said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raistlin1977
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  
  I love zombie games. Perhaps that is why i can play such an obviously flawed lackluster game such 
 as instinct and still enjoy it. This game has many repetitive environments with a late 90s ,early 
 2000 look to it. Yes the graphics are outdated. I ran all settings high with my 8800 GT with 60-70s 
 FPS. Obviously low budget but hey i also like low budget b horror zombie movies so thats fine by 
 me. Beware, this game does have starforce or something similar though as i couldnt play without installing 
 a copyright protection thing. Fortunately, i havent experienced any of the nightmare experiences 
 ive heard of with starforce.
  
  It is lame that you find the enemy commandos often hide behind or near stand or crouch near explosive 
 barrels. What kind of special forces would do that? I also am not happy with the fact that most of 
 the corpses disappear. Hell even old doom had permanent corpses all over the floor. I also noticed 
 id see shadows of the corpses that would show up underneath the floor on the floor below. The blood 
 is pretty good but without the corpses nothing special. Unfortunately they dropped the ball making 
 a zombie game without severed limbs, torsos, and exploding heads.
  
  The zombies are very derivative of repetative look alikes, with very little sign of decay. I understand 
 they are all recently infected but i still wish theyd look a lil more hideous. The ragdoll effects 
 are nice and its very satisfying using the 12 gauge launching a zombie several feet back. Some of 
 the zombies are laughable ,wearing track suits and red adidas s. Not to say they are all that bad 
 however. Sometimes id find myself longing for the option to run ,which sadly just isnt there, so 
 often backtracking can be slow and tedious. Their are zombies with shotguns, axes, shovels some slow 
 moving ,some fast moving, and even some running. I also have encountered giant rats on a few occasions, always 
 in groups of three for the most part. I found that the zombies would pose very little threat and 
 i remained relatively unscathed by them.
  
  The story can be very difficult to follow and the journal isnt that much help. The game will have 
 you playing 3 different characters whose experiences coincide and happen simultaneous. So although 
 the game is very linear, it does have its unique way of laying out things. Their are no real cutscenes, just 
 a comic strip like series of images often straying far from the matter at hand with ridiculous 
 side stories that are of no importance whatsoever. Very simplistic and amateur and boring to watch.
 
  
  Available weapons include  riot shotgun, AK47, VSK 94 sniper rifle, m4 
 Carbine, G36, explosive crossbow, grenades, sulfuric acid, and mounted gatling gun. I found a serious 
 overabundance of ammo so i never really felt the need to prioritize or conserve. This was definitely 
 a turn off. Playing on normal their was far too many medkits, but on hard it was more reasonable 
 as far as that goes.
  
  All in all this game is very low budget, outdated, and well, sloppily done. I did enjoy it however 
 and am happy i purchased it. It may not be crysis or stalker but if youre like me and must absolutely 
 play just about every first person shooter or horror/zombie themes then for the price have a go 
 at it. I respect the developers for their effort and thought a rating of 2 wasnt totaly appropriate 
 however, i see the need for harsh reviews as it keeps the benchmark high for computer games ,thus 
 assuring healthy progression overtime and weeds out stagnant games that muddy the waters and hold 
 the technology and dreams back. If you really really really like zombie games then i hope you enjoy 
 instinct as its a worthy effort.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 4
  Graphics: 3
  Sounds: 4
  Value: 6
  Tilt (story) : 9
  Actual score: 5.8
  
  If I tell you and go and play a zombie infested game you probably straitjacket me; if I add 
 that this game is also made by the Russian team Digital Spray youll probably lock your doors, 
 pull down the blinds, run an anti-virus check on your PC and hide in the basement fearing the next 
 Cold War; if I add that all of the dialogues are in Russian and its from the same creators 
 who made You Are Empty I really dont want to know what you are capable of. 
 Well, this is what Instinct is all about  Zombies, Russians, plague, busted graphics, Cold 
 War themes (which is pretty much over) and just as an added bonus North Korea.
  
  The story of Instinct flows in the form of a comic strip that concentrates on the three main characters 
 which you will have the opportunity to play them all; Arrow (the convert ops) , White (her lover 
 and the grunt of the pack) and Eighth (middle-of-the-range soldier) . They were ordered to retrieve 
 a certain professor in the underground facility which is located in the province of Ryanggang (or 
 Yanggang if you are South Korean) . To those who interested in current affairs beyond your backyard 
 this will ring a bell as the game dates September 8th, 2004  approximately 11 hours before 
 the explosion and decreases as you progress further into the game.
  
  The game cleverly explains the timeline in perfect fashion as when you play all three characters, 
 each one of them will have an impact with each other so expect the same dialogues to appear when 
 playing the other characters. Speaking of which, each character has a slightly different playing 
 style (e. g. Eighth uses the conventional military weapons whilst Arrow uses the sniper gun and 
 grenades and sadly White has absolutely no melee attack) and each character's game play will feel 
 different (e. g. Arrow is more of a distant attacker and has landmines to worry about whilst White 
 has to worry about overhead turrets and so forth) ; yet eventually they all merge into one predictable 
 soldier which I thought is a total lost opportunity. I was hoping more of Arrow using a stealthy 
 approach with plenty of hacking, White using heavy weapons and Eighth your typical run-of-the-mill 
 soldier.
  
  On the surface, Instinct feels like your typical shooter; that is collect items, open doors and 
 shoot anything that moves in addition to the concept of zombies and plagues is pretty much an overused 
 premise. However if you have patience all is not what it seems as when the story unfolds there 
 are some slight twists throughout which entices you to conclude the game (and wondering what caused 
 the explosion in the first place) . The entire dialogues are in Russian and the translation 
 is in the form of a journal entry (press j) . Naturally this increases the atmosphere 
 as it feels like a real global conflict than just having English people speaking Russian; yet the 
 Russians voice acting does need a little improvement as yours truly can understand a little 
 Russian and these actors do sound a little bored.
  
  The engine that powers this game is definitely behind the eight ball. All the environments are 
 bearly acceptable however its outdated considering the release date is 2007. If the game 
 was released in the late 90s then it would be a different story. That said, the game is highly 
 optimised aiming to suit a large range of PCs (e. g. lighting affects, vsync, decays and so forth) 
 yet regardless of what has been selected the game still requires a very powerful PC to run it and 
 looking somewhat reasonable (ironically enough) . There is also a rather unique option that you 
 can view the entire game in a form of a cartoon effect however please dont do this as its 
 certainly painful to make out and repulsive. In addition theres clipping issues where broken 
 crate pieces seems to float, enemies merging into walls, guns glued 
 to walls and even when you get hacked, slashed or shot at the character doesnt flinch a 
 bit therefore you have absolutely no idea how you are feeling besides your health bar; a shame 
 considering what this game could offer.
  
  The quality of sounds is equally dull and uninteresting; weak discharge from the weapons, monotonous 
 moans from the zombies, explosions, tumbling canisters and basically everything else is just simply 
 dreary however some of the environmental sounds are quite impressive like the electrical sparks 
 and the humming of the generators as when you approach them it produces that high screeching buzz. 
 Yet the voice acting is equally wearisome but at times there are sparks of life propel into those 
 actors when the heat is on. On the flipside I felt the musical scores is something 
 to take notice as in reality merges quite well with the game and at times have that industrial 
 beat to those faster paced action.
  
  The length of the game is pretty average as far as a FPS goes. Under medium settings it really 
 shouldnt take no more than the ten hours mark and if you are willing can play the game again 
 considering the inter-locking story you can take into account what you've maybe missed. The manual 
 itself is quite nice however I wished they added more history of the 2004 Korean explosion story 
 similar to what Stalker done with their Chernobyl story. 
  
  Instinct can be summarise as a lost opportunity than a broken game. There are many elements that 
 it can definitely improve on especially the gaming engine however sometimes one can tolerate a 
 poor engine in favour of the overall experience. Instinct undoubtedly created a lifeless atmosphere 
 but in a good way as the whole concept is based on the nuclear blast in Korea and the conspiracy 
 that surrounds it. Im glad that Digital Spray kept the dialogues in Russian and (poorly 
 spoken) Korean in addition to that Pulp Fiction storytelling style (Im aware 
 that Pulp Fiction wasnt the first movie that used that interlinking storytelling 
 model however its something that a good number of people relates to) as after 
 all the settings is not in a Western country but in Korea with Russian influences. To those who 
 have some kind of cultural experience and actually left your own backyard will appreciate 
 the attempts made to create a zombie infested world but to those who hasnt 
 seen the world prepare for a culture shock of your life; on second thoughts melt into your sofa 
 and stick to watching international news. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofhell2
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 25, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  Positive
  - Music isn't so bad at first
  
  Negative
  - Horrible dialogues
  - Ai is dumb as a stump
  - Repetitive
  - Hideous graphics
  - Annoying story and storytelling
 
  
  There's nothing to say about this game, only that the game is a waste of time. Not for those who 
 don't have anything to do. Fortunately I am exchanging some games with a friend and review them 
 when I can. This is the first I borrowed and I knew the game was bad but checking bad games is 
 becoming my new hobby. There isn't a reason for doing this, I just have to opportunity to play 
 them free, and that's all.
  
  Instinct is a terrible, awful game in storytelling. You will often hear foreign dialogues and you 
 won't have a clue of what they are saying. That makes the story too hard to follow. Level design 
 is poor and dull, sometimes confusing since basically all of the room look all the same and also 
 bland. Music is the best thing in the game, best, I mean better than the other things in the game. 
 It's not great, but not annoying either. But you'll be sick of the game's mediocre music by the 
 end of it. There is no kind of multiplayer in the game, and if there was it would probably be bad. 
 Multiplayer isn't needed in a game like Instinct, mostly by looking at the game's score. AI is 
 dumb and a stump. I kinda like this phrase. Artificial Intelligence is idiotic, dreadful. Game 
 gets repetitive after a while. Graphics are ugly, hideous are the best way to describe them. Frame 
 rate isn't always stable. 
  
  There's isn't anything special about Instinct. No multiplayer makes even the game worth less playing. 
 Nothing else, bad graphics, AI problems, storytelling are among Instinct's big problems. This is 
 not worth renting or buying, not even for a loan not worth. But if you happen to get it for free, 
 you won't even play this game for 1 hour, trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natasha8384
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 9:49 pm PT
Review:  The game uses very similar (not to say identical) install and play technique as seen in the developer's 
 other title: "You Are Empty". Both games are not worth mentioning from the gameplay perspective 
 since they don't offer much and even what they offer is a way below any quality standards. So far, 
 the developer, Digital Spray has not shown much talent nor basic mastery of simple game design. 
 However, these are subjective things and some people may find either of these games OK or even 
 fun (hey, I had fun with some games that were rated very low too :) ) .
  
  But make sure you understand two things before installing this game:
  
  1. both games come 
 with StarForce copy protection software -- if you don't know what StarForce is just google it; 
 and 
  
  2. "Instinct" also installs two hidden non-plug&play drivers called: Instinct Environment Driver 
 (pe3ae5eb) and Instinct Synchronization Driver (ps6ae5eb) . Their function is not known to me but 
 they do not uninstall when you uninstall the game. It could be that they are a customized part 
 of StarForce. These two hidden drivers are also noted in the Windows Registry, both of them are 
 listed in:
  HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE -  SYSTEM -  CurrentControlSet -  Services
  
  So far it seems that one of the ways of removing them is to simply run a system restore session. 
 Anywho ... the games are most likely not worth anybody's time from the quality or fun perspective, 
 but if you do want to play it just have a good restore point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kristjanp07
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 3, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Buying this game is as good as throwing your money in toilet and taking a crap all over it. Its 
 really hard to describe how bad the game really is. Lets put it this way, id rather play Big Rigs 
 then this piece of .... I want the 20 minutes of my life and the money back that i waisted on this 
 game, plus the psychiatrist bills from mental agony caused by this game. the graphics are bad, 
 the sounds are horrible and the story is the worst ever. the only good aspect of the game is, that 
 u can shoot zombies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junkchaser
Rating: 1.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 12:20 am PT
Review:  What the hell is this? If you want to have all bad things and all the clich&eacute; situations 
 in one FPS this game is something for you!
  
  I don't get the developers, spending their valuable time on a game like this? What were they thinking? 
 Beating games like upcoming Crysis ? This game is an insult to the FPS gaming industry!! Don't 
 buy it don't even try to play it... It's wasting your time from the first moment on.
  
  The graphics are really bad, the music is well boring and guess what the gameplay is clich&eacute; 
 and boring. Wait for some better games to come and save your money on this one! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
