-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Insurrection: Campaigns for Starcraft
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/insurrectioncampaignsfs/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 26, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.8
Critic Score: 4.8, 5.2 Review (s)
User Score: 5.2, 194 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Aztech New Media
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Jul 31, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Insurrection is nowhere near the original product in terms of quality. 

 Starcraft: Insurrection is a hasty and unprofessional single- and multiplayer supplement for the 
 popular real-time strategy game, designed to prey on those who cannot wait for the forthcoming 
 official add-on, Brood War. Although authorized by Blizzard, Insurrection is nowhere near the original 
 product in terms of quality. While it boasts three all-new single-player campaigns across 30 missions 
 along with over a hundred multiplayer maps, none of these is particularly well crafted, and many 
 are altogether poor.  

 The Insurrection campaign takes place simultaneously with the original Terran campaign and describes 
 a three-way fight for power on the backwater planet Brontes IV. Each species, Terran, Protoss, 
 and Zerg, gets its own campaign. These are designed to be played in the order of the original three, 
 although you can play any mission in any order. Each campaign attempts to introduce new heroes 
 into the Starcraft mythos; you get everything from the too-cool-for-you Terran lieutenant Jack 
 Frost to the powerful Protoss Archon Aedus/Xerxes. However, each of these uses recycled graphics 
 and speech acknowledgements from the original game, demanding some serious suspension of disbelief 
 on your behalf. Furthermore, these characters' voices are only mediocre attempts to keep with the 
 quality of voice acting from the original game. To add insult to injury, the voices for returning 
 characters like the Zerg Overmind and the Terran cyborg assistant are impersonated. Worse still, 
 the new speech in Insurrection is too quiet, demanding you crank the volume to hear what the new 
 characters are bantering about, then turn it back down when they finally shut up.  

 Sometimes they don't shut up. Insurrection's attempt to weave an interesting story is a little too 
 heavy-handed; mission briefings drag on far longer than they should as the various characters try 
 and fail to draw you into the plot as they argue amongst themselves. The original Starcraft campaign 
 briefings were often worth listening to more than once, thanks to the engrossing story and the 
 superb voice acting. In contrast, you'll find yourself skipping over these in Insurrection.  

 
 As is always the case with add-on packs, the campaign missions in Insurrection are much more difficult 
 than the original game. Some of the missions are pretty good and capitalize on the original campaign's 
 occasional shortcomings; namely, Insurrection will often pit you against more than one enemy, which 
 inherently makes for more interesting conflicts. In most cases, though, the Insurrection missions 
 are frustrating. Some border on the impossible; Aztech's web site admits that one Terran mission 
 in particular is in fact the "wrong version" that was included unintentionally, and offers a better 
 balanced variation for download. At other times, the missions severely limit the kinds of technology 
 you can use during battle even as the enemy suffers no such handicaps. Occasionally, you'll begin 
 a mission only to face attack from several directions at once, demanding you slow the game down 
 to micromanage the situation. Still more missions restrict the resources or real estate available 
 to you, demanding that you make do with less than ideal, or downright unfair, conditions. Rarely 
 will you encounter a good, clean fight or a satisfying victory, all in the name of heightened challenge. 
 Sadly, even as the missions themselves aren't always much fun, the story too is not interesting 
 enough to drive the campaign forward.  

 Meanwhile, of the hundred-some-odd multiplayer maps supplied with Insurrection, but a handful are 
 enjoyable. Most are mazelike wastes of time that cater toward very specific types of play, thereby 
 eliminating the potential for strategic subtlety. Some of the maps are fine, but perfectly boring. 
 Other maps are just silly; one starts a lucky player on high ground and his opponents on opposite 
 sides below. A Terran player with a few siege tanks poised in such a position can crush his enemies 
 without much difficulty. One of the bigger maps included doesn't even work (although again Aztech's 
 site offers a downloadable solution) . Starcraft includes plenty of well-made multiplayer maps out 
 of the box, and Blizzard has done well to release an original map each week. Still more fan-made 
 maps are available free for download on the Internet. Do you really need the half-baked Insurrection 
 maps with so many already available for free?  

 And unless you're perfectly starved for single-player action, then you can live without the campaign, 
 too. Insurrection's production quality is nowhere near the original's. You'll know that right away 
 when you realize there's no front end to the game. You access the campaign exactly how you would 
 any fan-made scenario. And with several high-quality fan-made campaigns already available for free 
 on the Internet, there remains little reason to own this add-on; rather, there remains only the 
 question as to why Blizzard authorized such a lackluster product in the first place.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: pinpointmc
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 12, 2009 2:14 pm PT
Review:  This joke of an "expansion addon" is the reason the developer, Aztech New Media (once an incredibly 
 mediocre bargain developer) is no longer in existence. Even for 1998, Insurrection has incredibly 
 poor production values. The story starts out somewhat decent but eventually progresses into a fundamentally 
 pointless ending. The voicing didn't help either. Most of the single player missions were hopelessly 
 rigged leading me to believe that the only replay value could be restarting a round from ridiculous 
 rigged gameplay (even for Starcraft standards.) This is garbage not that you'll find this piece 
 of crap anymore. As usual, the multiplayer maps are mostly ill-conceived and very imbalanced. This 
 is a no go even if you manage to find an illegal copy. This is literally a brief taint to outstanding 
 game series which begs the question of why Blizzard even allowed outside project such as this to 
 be published. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WinWalter
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 22, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  The unbelievable success of Starcraft would obviously invite many things to the table. Toys, comics 
 and legions upon legions of fans are just a few things to name but there is one more thing that 
 people neglect to talk about, probably for shame upon mentioning it. This is, third party addons.
 
  
  I am not saying that people can't take the original product and modify to some degree of success. 
 Anyone looking at Counter-Strike based on the Half-life game would realize that third party ingenuity, 
 can at times, bring a breath of fresh air and even possibly improve the original product. Though 
 there were high hopes for anything labeled with the prestigious "Starcraft" name, Aztech could 
 not match the original product in anyway shape or form.
  
  For starters, the game doesn't actually expand anything in any real sense. There are no new units, 
 or any remotely as captivating as the game it is based on. Instead, the game comes with 30 new 
 single player missions and a few dozen multiplayer maps, many that were probably created in less 
 than three minutes for each. 
  
  The single player mission in Starcraft, and also Brood Wars, were genuinely captivating with their 
 unique characters and the dilemmas they encountered as they fought to live another against the 
 other factions. In Insurrection, the story line is more of a side bar in the Starcraft universe 
 in the system of Brontes IV. You will not see any of the original characters, which is fine, except 
 for the fact that the cast of goons they put together sound like they're permanently constipated 
 and it's really hard to care about these guys. In fact, all of the 'Heroes' you will use throughout 
 the thirty missions are unbelievably just normal units. The guys at Aztech obviously weren't given 
 the code to actually create new units so they just put in the same unit and change the name. In 
 fact, for the case of the dropship, there is no hero dropship so they just disable you from building 
 other dropships but it doesn't say Morgan. No, it says dropship and they really takes you out of 
 the game. Not only that, but they could not change the voices of the units so only at triggered 
 points in the game, do they speak and then they are back to their original unit voice. So disappointing!
 
  
  At least, in the campaign briefings, they did an 'okay' job at trying to put together a somewhat 
 coherent story in the universe of Starcraft but so many times, briefings are too long and they 
 yap and yap and yap to the point that you don't even care anymore. The story is okay but in the 
 end suffers from implementation and poor mission structure.
  
  What's worse with the single player campaign is that it is completely filled to the brim with flaws 
 and bugs. You can not even beat the first mission because they inserted incorrect map triggers! 
 Yup, that's right! You can not even beat the first mission because whoever put it together doesn't 
 even know how to put the map triggers in right so it crashes! There's actually two more levels 
 with the same problem! Now, you could go to the website and download the correct maps but those 
 were taken down in early 2001 so since then, you're stuck with buggy maps you can't even play through. 
 This doesn't mean you can't beat the campaign because the maps are custom made so you could just 
 start playing off at mission 2 or 3 or 10 if you wanted to but it kinda defeats the purpose.
  
  Multiplayer maps are just as horrid, believe or not! Many of them are completely foolish in 
 their design. It was like, there was no consideration for balance or fair play. Some maps have 
 some players starting farther away from the minerals while some players get them closer. How is 
 that fair? Who rationalized to themselves, that would be a fun and fair map to play with friends 
 or people over the Internet? There's even a few maps where some players start on higher elevation! 
 The list goes on with maladies of the maps in both single and multiplayer.
  
  Everything this "game" has to offer is basically a collection of a poor campaign, which wasn't 
 tested at all, multiplayer maps with no polish nor refinement and a big thirty dollar price tag. 
 Starcraft: Insurrection is a monumental failure in every way. Even for five dollars, this would 
 not have been worth it. After seeing so many great multiplayer maps for free on the Internet and 
 even better single player campaigns like the Antioch Chronicles, it really shows you that there 
 is no need for a product like this. It doesn't play well and when it does play, it sucks! Stay 
 away from this game. I promise you will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: living420
Rating: 3.4
Date: Dec 3, 2005 3:46 pm PT
Review:  This "expansion" for Starcraft came out slightly before brood war did. It added several campaigns 
 and attempted to improve on near perfection. To me this game was a complete waist of the $15 (Canadian) 
 i spent on it. It offered no innovation and simply took advantage of the campaign editor available 
 to all who own the original Starcraft. It seems odd that a game that costs money can fail to come 
 close to the quality of free maps available on the games costless online service. This game contained 
 poorly built maps, uninspired voice acting and a pointless plot. Even if you need new maps desperatly 
 this game is not for you. Building your own maps would be a better solution. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
