-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: International Cricket Captain III
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/internationalcricketcaptain2007/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Up-to-date statistics on players.
 Easy learning curve for sport simulation fans.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Leaves you wanting more action.
 Punishes players for not directly playing matches.
 Poor animation and character models.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug  3, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.5, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 54 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Empire Interactive
Genre: Cricket
Date:     Jul 06, 2007 (EU)

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
International Cricket Captain III continues much in the same vein as the last entry in the series, 
 with incremental changes to player statistics to ensure it remains more cricket simulator than 
 sports action game. 

  Created by self-confessed statistic nuts, for statistic-nut cricket enthusiasts, International 
 Cricket Captain III (ICC3) gives you the chance to steer your team to victory across several different 
 cricket modes and teams. Players act as the manager of a cricket side, managing a budget and ultimately 
 trying to build the best cricket club they can. ICC3 certainly has its merits as a sports management 
 sim, although some irritations with the gameplay and a hideous graphics engine hamper the experience 
 quite a bit.  

  There are five gameplay modes available, with the first being a full game mode. This mode lets 
 you control a county cricket side, with a view to moving into captaining an international cricket 
 team. The next mode, county &amp; international, lets you captain both a county and international 
 team of your choice. Here you can help train new talent, and with a keen eye and hard work, turn 
 a virtual unknown into a cricketing legend. If you fancy yourself more of a big hitter and want 
 to manage only proven players, there's the international career mode, which lets you take control 
 of a side of your choice. The campaign sees you playing all the major cricketing nations, and also 
 covers World Cup matches. The match series mode lets you set up your own custom One Day International 
 (ODI) matches and tests, pitting your team against the strengths and weaknesses of some other nation. 
 The last -- which is the one that would best suit newcomers looking to wrap their mind around the 
 sim-management gameplay style -- is World Cup. Here you get the chance to relive three classic World 
 Cup matches from 1999, 2003, and 2007, all of which were dominated by Australian teams.  

           The ball-tracker mode gives you a visual representation of your line and length, letting 
 you adjust it easily.      

  You don't actively control your batsmen, bowlers, or fielders on the grass in ICC3, instead taking 
 control of their play style via sliders that let you raise or lower stats like aggressiveness when 
 batting, and ball line and pitch when bowling. When at the crease, you'll also need to adjust aggression 
 by taking into consideration your players' comfort levels and form in previous matches. The chance 
 of even your top-order batsmen being bowled or caught on single digits is high if you're swinging 
 at wild bowling by ramping it too fast without getting your eye in. That said, playing a defensive, 
 over-controlled game will see your team throw away the chance at runs, with maiden overs zipping 
 by. Bowling is much the same as batting; give the batsman a couple of scoring shots, then fire 
 down a pitched-up screamer and try to force them to play back on their stumps. Variation is the 
 aim of the game, and while you don't have to contend with focus, your bowlers can only bowl so 
 many overs before their stamina depletes. Resting a bowler is usually a worthwhile tactic, and 
 saving one of your sprightly quicks for the tail can get you some decent bowling figures without 
 conceding runs.  

  As is the case with most sports management sims, this is a game heavily rooted in and primarily 
 focused on statistics and strategies. If that floats your boat, then this title has some redeeming 
 features, graphical mediocrity put aside. ICC3 features updated stats from CricketArchive for the 
 entire roster (accurate to the start of this year) , allowing you to plot players' season and career 
 form. The 2007 version of the game also includes a new ball-tracker tab, giving you a visual heads-up 
 on the swing and pitch of all your deliveries for the over, and allowing you to correct the line 
 to suit the conditions.  

  We came across a couple of odd niggles with the game in our play, specifically with the odd, questionable 
 LBW decision with the ball pitching outside the line and swinging back. Likewise, you're able to 
 set various field placements for your bowlers from a set list, but even a fairly tight field is 
 often broken by what looks like only moderately hit shots. By far our biggest concern with the 
 game, graphics aside, is the penalty for not playing matches. While you can train your team and 
 then compete against various others, each game comes with the option to either skip or play the 
 match. Skipping will take you to the next menu with an outright verdict and score, while playing 
 the match gives you the option to swap bowlers in and out, change their line and length, and bat 
 until you reach their posted target or set your enemy a score to chase. The big problem here is 
 that you're penalized by skipping matches; a large message appears before each skip, warning that 
 by not playing, your team will not perform at its peak. Given that this is, after all, a simulation 
 management title, we were disappointed by the penalty the game imposes on players who choose to 
 not go the last step and control individual players on the field. Training and maintaining the 
 health of your players is paramount to success, and to be put at a severe disadvantage after putting 
 in all the pre-game training if you opt not to take the field is a low blow to the player.  

  ICC3 includes Internet play, giving players the chance to put their custom teams head-to-head 
 against other online contenders. It's also the only way to play with someone else because there's 
 no two-player mode in the career. Here you'll be able to take to the field and show off the young 
 talent you've put through your rigorous offline training. The service had problems: We couldn't 
 even connect on our first few attempts. When we finally did get on, we were told we needed a saved 
 game with an established county team to be able to play. The error messages pushed us to the official 
 ICC forums, where we didn't find any answers to our online-play woes.  

           Relive classic matches, including 2007 World Cup games.      

  While obviously not 
 a requirement of a simulation title such as this, the graphics in ICC3 are severely underwhelming, 
 even for a game of this sort. Playing the game in windowed mode makes the character models and 
 environments appear sharper and the animations slightly more natural; full screen, on the other 
 hand, leaves a lot to be desired. The animations are jerky, texture corruption and artifacting 
 is rampant, and unfortunately, the highest-resolution textures in the game appear to be the Taito 
 Legends house-ads dotted around the boundaries of the ovals you're playing on. Character models 
 are all identical, with only the team uniform, skin tone, and hair differentiating them. The lack 
 of articulation in the mitten-handed models of the umpires means they can't even convincingly give 
 you the finger (index) when you're out. Like the 2006 version, in-game audio commentary is provided 
 by former cricketer Jonathan 'Aggers' Agnew. There's a reasonable amount of variety in the audio 
 if you choose to play the matches, although you'll get over the recycling of clips pretty quickly 
 if you're playing long test matches.  

  International Cricket Captain 3 is a reasonable effort, and as a sports simulator, it has all the 
 fundamental components for a good game. The learning curve is about on par with other titles in 
 the genre, although the poor graphics and a few issues with the design of the gameplay tend to 
 hamper what is an otherwise decent effort at a team micromanagement title. Sim aficionados should 
 be right at home with the menu systems, player trading, and training, while the field controls 
 are laid out well and easy to adjust. Previous owners of the series may find this version to be 
 more of the same -- either providing them with updated stats for what they love, or disappointing 
 those wanting something a bit more.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: m_a_r_ch1989
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  Well, this was finally one good game in this series. Though, I had been playing this series from 
 cricket capatin 2001 but this was the which surprised me most. The new 3d engine was great work 
 which this series was missing previously. The ball tracker was excellent work in my views. also 
 the updated tournaments and squads were as good as always which is the best part of this series. 
 The one disappointing thing was that it did not provide facility to see the teams previous match 
 results unlike previous versions and also it also dont allow you to save the squad for later use 
 which I feel was good thing unlukilly was removed from this version. Hope this series will continue 
 such great work in improving the game and the one thing which I feel this series should start is 
 the facility to apply cheats or just provide different patches. I have one patch which allows infinite 
 coaching but if any one have any other patch then please provide it to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 16, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  I've always enjoyed cricket. More so playing it rather than watching it on the TV. As matter of 
 fact I was still rolling the arm over just a couple of years ago in my mid 30's. There's never 
 been a great deal of cricket games on the computer. Graham Gooch Cricket (following by Shane Warne's, 
 Brian Lara's and Ricky Ponting's) , EA's mediocre efforts and good ol' fashioned Stick Cricket for 
 free on the internet. However, the International Cricket Captain series offered a management take 
 on the game, and on the whole has always provided a more complete (both in terms of tactics and 
 realism) representation of the game.
  
  International Cricket Captain 3 is the umpteenth update of the series. The bottom line is the core 
 of the game remains - a solid match engine where you can change the game with tactical choices. 
 The international and club teams come with their correct squads, test series and the World Cup 
 are produced and the new players generate accurately that allows the game to continue with realism. 
 For this alone, ICC 3 is worth your money if you are a cricket nut. But man, the new 3D highlights 
 are very ordinary indeed.
  
  Graphically, the game was taken a bit of a backward step. The basic interface hasn't changed - 
 with the menus easy to navigate, directions clearly understandable and scoreboards, run charts, 
 worms and statistics clearly laid out. But gone are the grounds from around the world that were 
 displayed as the backdrop to all of this and it is replaced with the slowly scrolling 3D fields. 
 And then there are the highlights. Please! Take them away! Whilst the move from 2D to 3D sounds 
 like a good one, it fails miserably. Players look the same, they move like molasses (whilst the 
 ball has reached the fence the second it hits the bat) and the cardboard cut-out crowd is basic. 
 In 2D the simplistic nature of the highlights is understandable - and more importantly, it is realistic. 
 That's all gone out of the window with this new engine, that should be discarded completely or 
 undergo a major reconstruction for the next incarnation. And sorry, but Australia is green and 
 gold, not cyan and blue. Get it right.
  
  The sounds remain simple, with the standard cricket sounds of ball of bat and stumps, the 'Howzat' 
 and the cheer of the crowd and the continued competent commentary of Jonathon Agnew. The same title 
 music that appeared in the first game back in 1998 remains in place!
  
  I've already moaned about the highlights replay, but it does impact on the gameplay as well. It 
 is actually quite offputting and old-timers will be reaching for the 'no highlights' option rather 
 quickly. However, the match engine still operates very soundly, churning out over after over and 
 result after result of consistently realistic cricket results. Player, club and national stats 
 remain detailed and update through the game and you always feel you have a sense of control over 
 each match. As captain you choose you team (and organise training) , choose to bat or bowl (if you 
 win the toss) and then choose a number of factors involved with batting, bowling and fielding.
 
  
  Batting mainly involves choosing the aggression level of the batsmen and whether to keep the strike 
 (used if a top order batsman is batting with the tail) . Bowling involves choosing line, length 
 and aggression and fielding is simply choosing from five preset fields or making your own (a long 
 but ultimately productive task - and they can be saved) . And the game rolls on, over after over 
 as the match progresses. The pitch does deteriorate which requires changed tactics as the longer 
 version of the game progresses.
  
  The AI is also consistent through the game. The 'Easy' level remains a bit of a cruise (though 
 it's not as easy as it was) and 'Normal' level continues to be a challenging game of cricket. The 
 computer changes fields regularly, bowlers even more regularly and knows when to direct batters 
 to chase the attack or close up shop for a draw - something it now does much more effectively. 
 A five match Test Series between stronger nations are an absorbing struggle, and if you can excuse 
 the poor quality of the highlights, the presentation of the game and the atmosphere it brings is 
 genuinely exciting.
  
  The game continues season after season, with the real crickets retiring and new cricketers entering 
 the game. This doesn't change the realism of the game as the statistics remain sensible.
  
  I've played quite a few seasons of this latest incarnation. The World Cup with the Aussies was 
 a no-brainer, but future test series against India and Pakistan were hard work. I also managed 
 rock bottom Somerset in the English County, which was hard work in the first year, but after recruiting 
 some old professionals (Warnie is still there) , I was able to get them in the top league. Form 
 and training plays its part, tactics plays its part and the toss can also be a big influence in 
 the result of the game. Just like real cricket, really.
  
  I paid $AUD40 for ICC3. I was thinking of buying ICC2005 for half that and considering it keeps 
 the much less offensive 2D highlights engine, it may have been a better buy. However, this version 
 includes bang-up-to-date statistics and the first competition you'll play in the International 
 segment is the World Cup of 2007, so that's not too bad. It's the first version I have purchased 
 since 2002, so I'm happy with the value.
  
  Ultimately, this is an 'update' for those who are already a familiar with the game - with new statistics 
 and updated tours and rosters. If you can get past the horrible highlights (and there is an option 
 for no highlights) , it's more of the same - which means a good deal of quality sporting management. 
 However, if you are new to the series, consider purchasing last year's version, because the graphics 
 of this one really could put you ff quickly. Get it for stats, not the look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romanthony
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 25, 2007 6:04 pm PT
Review:  The ICC series has proved itself even among the EA cricket series and the ever impressive Brian 
 Lara/Ricky Pointing cricket series, that it is the best cricket game out there. I have been a faithful 
 to the series since 2000 and as much as it updates it database, the game always seem to be missing 
 an element to the game. ICC 3 as it is called has given us the much needed improvement it needed. 
 The graphics. Although the graphics looks like a brushed up version of Brian Lara '99, the game 
 now looks a little more presentable and acceptable. The audio is still the same and we hope the 
 do more with it in the next series also give more stadiums and improve on the batting game play 
 aspect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Green140870
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 13, 2007 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Having bought the original International Cricket Captain back in 1999 and again purchasing ICC2002 
 I realised that the development of the game would be limited with each new release. The difference 
 between the two titles was negligible and therefore I resolved to resist the temptation to buy 
 any of the sequels. But when I saw the graphical changes made to ICC3 I thought it was time to 
 succumb.
  
  The match engine is much slicker and together with the improved graphics it makes it much more 
 enjoyable watching games over and over. I found myself gradually reducing the highlights to none 
 on the old version after a couple of seasons but with this version I have played 4 seasons straight 
 watching the key highlights in each game. You actually get a feeling that the players are real 
 characters as you get to see the shots in all their glory. In addition the one day games now play 
 out extremely realistically with a number of games going down to the wire with realistic scores. 
 The first class game definitely needs a bit of tweaking as I've noticed that all fast or medium 
 bowlers averages gradually climb and the scores tend to be on the high side. However this really 
 is a minor point as it does not detract from the enjoyment of each match.
  
  On the down side there have been very few changes to the other areas of the game in eight years 
 and that is disappointing. I think the developers need to take a look at the most successful football 
 management game of all time FM2007 and realise that people do like stats particularly cricket fans!!. 
 The career records show the overall averages but it would be great to know where and when high 
 scores were achieved, the ability to go further back than one year to see the development of a 
 player and more records to beat - fastest fifty, century etc. It wouldn't be a big deal but for 
 the fact that this is a game that is supposed to have developed over eight years.
  
  The ability to manage any nation has been added and the international fixtures are all up to date 
 as is the database although there are just a few minor errors concerning players abilities, allrounders 
 as batsmen, bowlers as batsmen etc. Again this really is a minor point as the enjoyment is in signing 
 new players and developing them albeit very limited in what you can actually do, still the old 
 coaching and physio as in the original version.
  
  All this said if you are a cricket fan this is an absolute must, I guarantee many sleepless nights 
 where you submit to just one more game.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trezco
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 13, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  I like Cricket, so thus I bought International Cricket Captain 2006 (I know it's 3 not 2006) , I 
 heavily enjoyed it since I understand cricket statistics.. and again, to enjoy this game, you really 
 do have to like cricket and understand statistics. In ICC 3 its even better since they have improved 
 the graphic immensely and redone the sound. Now to start off;
  
  Graphics: Very good, much improved on ICC 2006, the screenshots on the back and on Gamespot make 
 it seem very bad - But trust me, they are better than the screenshots give credit for.
  
  Sound: Very much improved also, much better sound when the stumps get hit, also sound when the 
 bowler actually bowls now. So Overall this is an excellent improvement.
  
  Gameplay: Although the graphics and sounds have changed, it still is the same game. Simply put 
 this is a Management AND Captaincy game (when playing a match) , allowing you to change fields, 
 bowler's lengths, over or around the wickets, etc. When batting you can change the aggressiveness 
 accordingly, depending on how quickly you need to score. Although if you're batsman is not settled 
 yet, putting him on full aggressiveness is likely to end up with his unfortunate dimise on the 
 pitch. You get to choose from 4 game options, either: Full Game, International Only, Historical 
 Series and International and County.
  
  Full Game:- You start out playing as a county of your choice, and if your county is successful, 
 you could be chosen to play for a country (England, India, Australia etc.) , you get to decide which 
 country you can play for in the full game now, which is a nice improvement.
  
  International Only:- Forget the County, just go straight into the international arena. In this 
 version you cannot play as a county.
  
  International and County:- This one is where you can't be bothered to earn the right to play as 
 a Country, you start off playing as a Country AND a county.
  
  Historical Series:- Making you play an historical series, which are usually famous with old players.
 
  
  Overall I think this is an excellent game with immense improvements! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
