-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Interstate '82
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/interstate82/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 30, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.2
Critic Score: 6.2, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 93 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Oct 31, 1999
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Where Interstate '76 was cohesive and involving, Interstate '82 feels unfocused and generic. 
 

 Interstate '82 is the sequel to Activision's MechWarrior-in-a-muscle-car game, Interstate '76. It 
 takes place in 1982. Groove Champion, the hero of the original game, is missing, and it's up to 
 his sister Skye and his old partner Taurus to find out what happened. Taurus has since traded in 
 his vigilante lifestyle and his Afro for a more modern Miami Vice look. The rest of the cast shows 
 off most early-to-mid-'80s fashion statements, from Mohawks to silk scarves. However, Interstate 
 '82 simply doesn't stand up to the original because of its simplified gameplay, weak single-player 
 opponents, and unreliable multiplayer mode.  

 The best feature in Interstate '82 is its story. The story is told through prerendered cutscenes 
 and occasional mid-mission CB radio chatter. The voice work is really quite excellent throughout 
 the game, from the villain that sounds like he's doing an impression of someone doing an impression 
 of Christopher Walken to the hilarious overdubbed swear-substitutes, which give the entire game 
 a B-movie-on-cable feel from beginning to end. In addition to the outstanding voice acting, the 
 game also has some pretty good music, including three Devo tracks. The rest of the soundtrack is 
 typical '80s new wave and fits pretty well.  

 The most notable new gameplay addition is the ability to leave your car and get into other cars. 
 This opens up a whole world of possibilities because now you're never left waiting to die in an 
 ammo-depleted, heavily damaged vehicle, and can simply hop out and look for a new ride. Of course, 
 you're an easy target once you're on foot, and your pistol isn't very effective against a heavily 
 armored car. A few missions also have switches and things that you must get out of your car to 
 manipulate. In addition, unlike in the original, you'll be able to change cars several times throughout 
 the course of the story mode, since you'll continue to the next mission with whatever car you used 
 to finish the last mission. Each car has a different configuration of empty slots that let you 
 add additional armor and weapons. Naturally, larger cars can accommodate larger weapons, like turreted 
 machine guns and different types of "karpoons."  

 Interstate '82 comes with its own player-matching service, which connects you to a chat lobby and 
 displays a list of available multiplayer games. It's easy to get into a game, but actually playing 
 an Internet-based multiplayer game is a different story. Even if you've got a good ping to the 
 server, you can expect plenty of choppy gameplay, delayed deaths, and all sorts of other problems. As 
 a result, you'll want to stick to LAN play whenever possible. It's a shame, because the game has 
 a few fun multiplayer modes, including the standard free-for-all, a capture-the-flag variant called 
 capture the trout, and hot potato, in which you pass a bomb back and forth between cars until one 
 player gets stuck with it and explodes. You can pick from any of the game's cars for multiplayer 
 play, and you can arm and protect it in any way you see fit. Also, you can load the cars' paint 
 jobs into your favorite graphics editor and customize their appearances. The custom paint jobs 
 are sent to other players in multiplayer games, so you'll be able to share your detailing skills 
 with others.  

 As far as the single-player mode is concerned, Interstate '82 has problems with enemy cars' artificial 
 intelligence. Even on the hardest of the three difficulty settings, you can defeat most enemy cars 
 by simply backing up in a straight line and gunning them down as they give chase. Granted, if you're 
 supposed to be defending something, this tactic isn't as effective, but the AI's generally poor 
 aim and its willingness to sit in your sights and take heavy fire make the single-player game easier 
 than it should be. At least Interstate '82 controls pretty well, which makes it fairly easy for 
 you to drive, target enemies, and select different weapons at the same time.  

 Interstate '82 looks fairly good but a little dated compared to other recent games that require 
 3D hardware. There's a fair amount of pop-up on the horizon and it isn't masked at all, so one 
 second you'll be staring at the background texture, and suddenly a large wall will fade in. Although 
 the game generally moves well, you never really get a good sense of speed in any of the available 
 camera views, and the graphics aren't exactly dazzling anyway. The plain-looking in-car view is 
 particularly ugly - it would have been nice to at least see your car's dashboard in the first-person 
 perspective.  

 Such problems seem even worse when compared with the original game. Where Interstate '76 was cohesive 
 and involving, Interstate '82 feels unfocused and generic - it's more than a mission pack, but 
 less than a full-fledged sequel. If you're only interested in the continuing story, then it's definitely 
 worthwhile. But if you're after a complete game, then you're better off with the original.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 29, 2007 6:39 am PT
Review:  Maybe it's because it had a very tough act to follow. Perhaps it was all the hoopla generated by 
 eager fans dying to get their hands on the sequel to one of their favorite games. Or it could be 
 that we gamers have grown so accustomed to mind-blowing 3D graphics that anything less than state-of-the-art 
 will satisfy.
  
  Whatever the reason, one thing's for certain: Interstate '82 never grabs you by the throat and 
 pulls you completely into its alternate universe of high-speed automotive combat the way Interstate 
 '76 did. That doesn't mean it fails on all counts; stick with it long enough, and you'll find some 
 pretty gratifying drivin' and shootin' action, along with a wacky plot chock-full of references 
 to 1980s culture and politics. Unfortunately, it's a safe bet that a lot of gamers - especially 
 ones who expected all the same gameplay elements they loved in Interstate '76 - might give up before 
 they reach that point.
  
  Things get off to a rocky start in, of all the places, the intro sequence. It's not at all a case 
 of hammy voice-acting or poor writing; indeed, the entire sequence is tense and gripping, and the 
 acting's just fine. The problem is how it looks: dark, grainy images with almost no sense of detail, 
 and background textures that seem to swirl and bleed together. Jeez, this is a non-interactive 
 segment - can't it look better than what we'd have seen four years ago?
  
  Well, at least the quality's good enough that you know what's going on: Groove Champion, hero of 
 Interstate '76, is trying to reach his sister Skye on the phone when two goons (one's got a Mohawk, 
 so you know it's 1982!) burst in with guns pulled. Groove manages to dive out the window of his 
 ratty trailer in the desert and make it to his ride, but before he can pull away he skids out of 
 control and wham! - all we know is that our man Swinger is definitely not all right.
  
  You play as Taurus, the smooth- talking soul brother who handled your training in Interstate '76. 
 You have to team up with Skye to find what's happened to her brother and who's responsible. Just 
 as in a Bond flick, you'll have to drive and fight your way not only through a steady stream of 
 regular bad guys, but also a series of successively tougher head honchos - and of course there's 
 a lot more on the line than the lives of Taurus, Skye, Groove, and Skeeter the mechanic (yep, he's 
 back too) .
  
  The plot ultimately ties in covert international intrigue, Contras, and Ronald Reagan himself. 
 It unfolds to the beat of an original DEVO soundtrack unearthed from the band's stashes. The ambience 
 is certainly apparent, but '80s schtick isn't enough to warrant an all-new game.
  
  The big letdown as far as I-82 goes is in how the designers chose to streamline the original's 
 wealth of options. In an effort to make I-82 more accessible, much of the nitty-gritty of specification 
 and weapon loadout has been removed in favor of generic customizations. While this definitely allows 
 you to move through the setup sections fast and get right to the fighting, it weakens both the 
 fighting and the overall game by denying fans of the original the fun of car customization.
  
  Beyond that, I-82 just seems to emphasize the goofy more than the gritty, and loses a lot of 
 its predecessor's punch in the process. The Las Vegas levels are intended as show-stopping set 
 pieces, but the only reason they stop the show is to make you shake your head in disapproval at 
 the oddball scenery. Some of the underground sewer levels and the fantastic Area 51 level show 
 off some wonderful design, but too much of the game is spent blasting through areas that seem intent 
 on making you moan with their cuteness. All in all, Interstate '82 just made me nostalgic for the 
 original. Maybe it's just further proof that the eighties were a disappointment. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
