-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: International Cricket Captain 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/internationalcricketcaptain4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Up-to-date statistics on players.
 Dynamic field placement.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Leaves you wanting more action.
 Punishes players for not directly playing matches.
 Poor animation and character models.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 15, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 5.3, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 6.0, 36 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Empire Interactive
Genre: Sports
Date:     Jun 27, 2008 (EU)

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The 2008 edition of ICC breaks little new ground, but if you simply must have the latest season's 
 statistics and rosters, there's still a competent sim management game for devoted cricket fans. 
 

  International Cricket Captain 2008 for the PC builds on the changes introduced in last year's version 
 of the game, including the new 3D engine, but ultimately this year's edition is little more than 
 an incremental statistical update. Although these revisions will represent a lot of value to the 
 hardcore statistic fans, the overall experience is still hampered by a slight identity crisis and 
 serves only to cheapen a sport loved by so many.  

           Hawk-Eye tells you where your line and length are taking you, which is useful for those 
 borderline LBW calls.      

  As a brief recap for those unfamiliar with the series, International Cricket Captain is a sporting-team 
 supervision sim that puts you in the role of coach to both English domestic-county cricket and 
 international side management. In it, you'll manage all aspects of the team, including their fitness, 
 physio, and training on and off the field. The full game mode lets you take control of a county 
 team with the ultimate goal of producing a side worthy of a national captain nomination. County 
 and international mode makes a return this year, and sees you picking both a domestic and international 
 team to manage with the goal of finishing at the top of the boards. Managing two teams presents 
 its own challenges, and in addition to the matches themselves, you'll need to cope with player 
 shuffling within your ranks as your players are called up to fulfill obligations to national teams. 
 Not surprisingly, the players with the best stats and form are called up, which puts performance 
 dents in your team that you'll need to work around by keeping a working substitution bench. Given 
 that you're dealing with county players, this gameplay mode also gives you the chance to use your 
 talent-scouting eye to pick out and mould in your image the up-and-coming players before they get 
 big. With a little careful management and training, you may have the next Shane Warne or Ricky 
 Ponting on your hands. If managing household-name talent is more your thing, then the International 
 Career mode will let you get straight into the big leagues to take your choice of team to glory. 

  One fundamental issue raises its head again in the 2008 edition of ICC. The game straddles the 
 line between giving players the chance to play as cricket captain and as a team manager, and the 
 two don't always overlap. The on-field direction of who will bowl and bat, when they'll do it, 
 and how the fieldsmen will be placed is all captain territory. On the other hand, between matches 
 you'll need to manage player training and fitness by spending your allocated number of skill points. 
 ICC '08 has added new coaching options, and whereas previously all you could do was assign generic 
 bowling or batting training to players, you're now able to designate work in specific areas such 
 as improving aggressive or defensive skills. Each player profile includes information on his preferred 
 play style, so over time and with a guiding hand you can help correct players' shortcomings. Like 
 ICC III last year, though you can play it as a pure management game, you'll still be penalised 
 for skipping playing matches; you won't be able to set advanced tactics such as aggression, player 
 rotations, or night watchmen if you lose several wickets cheaply. Thankfully, you can choose the 
 highlight coverage and limit it accordingly to every ball, runs and wickets, fours and wickets, 
 chances, and wickets only to speed things up.  

  Considering that this is a management rather than an action game, you'll spend most of your time 
 navigating menus and pages of numbers to select players and manage what they're doing. Unfortunately, 
 when you do venture into the 3D engine for matches, it's a rather lacklustre experience. Two video 
 options are offered: windowed and full-screen mode. The smaller of the two is easier on the eyes 
 simply because the models are scaled down, but full-screen mode is embarrassing. Granted, this 
 is not a game that prides itself on its graphical prowess, but the abundance of low-resolution 
 textures repeated ad nauseam is enough to make you wince. There appears to have been no visual 
 upgrade since last year, and like ICC III, the game has what appears to be a single character model 
 that is shared across both teams as well as the umpires. The model varies only by hair colour, 
 outfit, and occasionally facial hair. House ads for ICC's developer Xplosiv and distributor Empire 
 Interactive pepper the boundary. Character animations are uneven, with shots such as on-drives 
 appearing fluid and natural, whereas running between wickets and diving in the outfield appear 
 jerky and inconsistent. Players often dive and appear to stop the ball, but then the camera continues 
 to pan around the ground while the commentary and umpire signal four runs. Clipping errors are 
 still par for the course here, and it's not uncommon to see bats pass through the legs of players. 
 Interestingly, though umpires can now signal sixes using clearly articulated single fingers, LBW 
 dismissals are still indicated using a whole hand and come off somewhere between a friendly wave 
 and a salute to the Fuhrer.  

  Given that this is a mostly hands-off cricket experience and that you'll never actually control 
 the swing of a bat or choose which delivery will be bowled, you'll need to rely on the in-game 
 Hawk-Eye bowling graphs to gauge how you're doing. The bowling and batting systems have received 
 a slight visual tweak from last year, with slider bars now reoriented from a vertical to a horizontal 
 position, but functionally they work the same way. Sliding to the right boosts your aggression 
 and makes you more likely to score runs and potentially lose your wicket depending on your comfort 
 at the crease. Moving the bar left plays more defensive shots and is useful for fresh players after 
 the fall of a wicket. Your ability to change the line and length of your bowling has been brought 
 out of the respective minimenus and is now faster to adjust on the fly. One of the biggest changes 
 here is that, when you're bowling and choosing an aggressive approach, your field will automatically 
 reposition. You're still able to manually change where fielders stand from five presets or by creating 
 a custom field, but it's a nice feature for anyone who rapidly changes between bowling styles. 

           Manage your team off the field by evaluating their fitness and form.      

  Jonathan "Aggers" Agnew makes a return to the commentary seat in the 2008 version, but the small 
 selection of audio samples -- a large percentage of which appears to be recycled from last year's 
 game -- quickly grow stale and often simply don't fit the onscreen action. At one point, Aggers chimed 
 in on an absolutely plum LBW dismissal with "Nine times out of 10 the batsmen would have survived, 
 but you've got to go." Likewise, a ball that was clearly swinging down the offside of a right-handed 
 batsman was met with the suggestion that he was lucky to survive the attempt. Ambient crowd audio 
 consists of polite applause whenever anything happens.  

  Although it has received a slight interface overhaul and some minor gameplay tweaks, some of the 
 inherent shortcomings of the International Cricket Captain series remain. Inconsistent character 
 animations, lacklustre visuals, and the penalty for skipping matches hamper what is at its core 
 a competent sports-management simulation.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Donners22
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 21, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  For a game which has been around for well over a decade, it is astonishing how little the ICC series 
 has progressed. There have been a few recent innovations, such as 3D graphics (though the jerky, 
 late-90s quality adds little) to 20/20 (which consists of pumping aggression to maximum and little 
 else) and the ability to manage any international side (though still no domestic side outside of 
 England) . 
  
  Most recently, this version introduces new training options. You can now focus on very specific 
 areas, such as defensive bowling, certain types of batting, etc. Unfortunately, since you never 
 see any attributes, only the stats and a few traits, it's really hard to see what impact these 
 have.
  
  Really, the new features have added little, and the core game still has the same old problems. 
 Spin bowling is very much favoured, and a part-time spinner can quickly carve through most sides. 
 Batting scores tend to be very high, and it's not uncommon for most of the all-time batting records 
 to be broken within a few seasons. Quality fast bowlers are rarely produced, and the ones that 
 are generally demand massive wages after a couple of mediocre seasons.
  
  The database is also a problem. Rugby player Andrew Johns, who played a 20/20 exhibition match, 
 is in the database as an Australian domestic regular. Mitchell Johnston becomes a quality all-rounder, 
 thanks to a few not-out scores in Tests (which really brings into question the underlying attributes 
 versus the statistics in determining performance) . Moises Henriques is a specialist bowler. There 
 is no official editor, and it is little surprise given the lack of improvement. If not for updated 
 stats, there would be no reason for players to buy another version.
  
  It is, admittedly, the best cricket management game around, simply because the only other option 
 is the dreadful Cricket Coach. At its heart, ICC is actually a pretty decent game - it's just endlessly 
 frustrating that it's been the same pretty decent game all along. It has never really developed, 
 and every time it starts to get enjoyable, one of its many quirks creeps in and ruins it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
