-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: International Cricket Captain 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/internationalcricketcaptain2006/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Updated stats give old hands a fresh challenge.
 Lets you build your team over several years.
 Online league lets you challenge the world.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Bad graphics and audio.
 Too similar to previous versions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  6, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.3
Critic Score: 5.6, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 58 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Empire Interactive
Genre: Cricket
Date:     Jun 16, 2006 (EU)

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Use your inspired captaincy to achieve glory on the county cricket circuit or in the international 
 arena, but don't expect any big improvements over previous versions of International Cricket Captain. 
 

  Last year's nail-biting Ashes series, in which several crucial games came down to the wire, did 
 wonders for cricket's public image. With Freddie Flintoff and friends now national heroes, the 
 team behind the International Cricket Captain series has released this new version, which is updated 
 for the 2006 season and endorsed by star batsman Kevin Pietersen. As before, ICC does a good job 
 of re-creating the challenge of leading your favourite cricket team to glory, but the game remains 
 disappointingly similar to previous versions.  

          When choosing a team, examine your players' batting and bowling statistics and their form. 
     

  In the full version of ICC 2006, you can captain any English county side and earn the right to 
 lead England, or take on both roles straight away. Alternatively, you can avoid the county circuit 
 and jump straight to the international arena with any of the 10 test-playing nations. The final 
 option is to revisit cricket's past with four historic clashes involving England and either Pakistan 
 or Sri Lanka -- who are both touring England during summer 2006.  

  Once you've made your choice, you're soon put into the action. In the full game you get to bolster 
 your squad with some new signings, but at the beginning you only get the choice of some pretty 
 raw youth talent. In the international arena, however, you get to pick from every qualified player. 

  After assigning your players some coaching, you are quickly into the season with your opening fixture, 
 and your first task is picking your team. You can base your decisions on current form, long-term 
 performance, and the conditions. If it's a cloudy day, for example, then it makes sense to play 
 a bowler who can swing the ball, while spinners should profit on a turning surface, especially 
 towards the end of a four- or five-day game.  

  All batsmen have their own individual style of play, ranging from the very defensive to the very 
 attacking. They may prefer to face spin or pace bowling or spin, or may favour hitting on the offside 
 or legside of the wicket. Some are specialist openers, and it pays to bear this in mind when setting 
 your batting order.  

  As the batting side, your influence is pretty limited. You get to dictate an aggression level for 
 each batsman at the crease, then click 'next ball' or 'next over' to see the results. If this merely 
 yields a boring succession of dot balls then you might choose to crank the level up, especially 
 if you're chasing a target. If your players suffer a string of edged changes, or keep playing and 
 missing, then you can calm things down. It's more likely, though, that reckless aggression will 
 lead to the swift fall of a wicket. You get much more input when it's your turn to field, and a 
 well-balanced attack should help you succeed in all conditions. The process is simple -- select a 
 bowler, decide which stump to aim at, where to pitch the ball, and whether to go over or round 
 the wicket.  

          Set your field wisely and bowl a good line and length, and the umpire may reward you with 
 a wicket.     

  Because bowlers can suffer fatigue quickly, you need to juggle them around to keep creating chances 
 and stop the opposition from capitalising on tired deliveries. You also need to keep thinking about 
 your fielding positions. The game will automatically arrange the fielders depending where the bowler 
 is aiming and how aggressive you want to be. This can then be tweaked, so if a batsman keeps hitting 
 fours through the same part of the field you can put a fielder in the way.  

  Visually the game is disappointing, especially if you've played previous versions of ICC and hoped 
 to see improvements. There are small differences in the way that the players move; for example, 
 fast bowlers are slightly quicker, while spinners saunter in slowly. Players can be differentiated 
 by hair and skin colour, but otherwise you may as well be looking at a low-budget cartoon. The 
 audio is also rather basic, with just a few crowd noises, the clunk of leather on willow, and commentary 
 from the BBC's Jonathan Agnew -- many of whose remarks are unchanged from earlier versions of ICC. 

  You can argue that better graphics and audio wouldn't improve the most important aspect of the 
 game, the management of your team. Without them, ICC2006 is little more than a database update 
 on previous versions. But, at heart, this is still an engaging and challenging game that has the 
 potential to keep cricket fans interested for weeks.  

  You certainly get plenty of matches in a season. At the county level, there are four competitions; 
 the two-division championship, two one-day competitions, and the Twenty20 'thrashathon'. In the 
 longer games, strategy comes to the fore as you attempt to emerge victorious over four days. In 
 the one-dayers, you find a test of nerve as you push your batsmen's aggression up and cross your 
 fingers. Twenty20 games are a riot -- because there are so few overs that you throw all caution the 
 wind when batting, and as the fielding side it's vital to save every run you can.  

  One handy feature is the ability to skip a game, which is useful if you've given up any chance 
 of winning a particular competition. Your team won't perform at top ability without your leadership, 
 but they still have a chance of winning, and it can save a lot of time. The players are also well 
 created in style, if not in appearance. Leading bat swingers like Flintoff and Pietersen will thrive 
 when instructed to chase runs, and it's good to see upcoming stars like Monty Panesar and Ed Joyce 
 performing well. Squad training allows you to keep players in good form or develop the skills of 
 younger cricketers, and when playing at home you can get the pitch prepared to suit batsman, seam 
 bowlers, or spinners.  

  At the end of a county season, you're assigned your budget for next year. This is based on your 
 performance in the various competitions, so if you're promoted or enjoy a good run in the cups, 
 then you're rewarded with the chance to improve your squad. After haggling with existing players 
 whose contracts have run out, you can spend your remaining income on buying new players. This includes 
 a wide range of international players, which can be the best chance of introducing world-class 
 talent to your team.  

  One interesting aspect of the game is that you don't get to see a player's raw attributes, as you 
 can in many other sports games. Instead, you have to assess them based on their averages (over 
 this season, last season, or over their whole career) , and recent performances, an aspect designed 
 to replicate the challenges faced by real-live cricket selectors.  

  Your total budget depends on how well you performed in the previous season, although larger counties 
 automatically enjoy a larger income. As well as salaries, you can spend money on coaching, youth 
 training, and physiotherapy. This means you can balance your resources between strengthening your 
 team, improving your players, keeping them fit, and improving your chances of finding bright young 
 talent. Once you've built up your team, you can play against other human players online, with a 
 league system that uses a ladder-based points system, so you can challenge opponents of roughly 
 similar ability.  

          The commentary lets you know what just happened without having to view each ball.     

 
  As a cricketing-management game, ICC2006 occupies a unique niche. But when compared to other games, 
 such as Football Manager 2006, it does appear light on micromanagement options. Stadium improvements, 
 closer links with the youth team, or more complex training methods would all add more depth.  

 
  If you're into cricket and you've not experienced the ICC series before, then this could be the 
 time to try it. But if you already own an earlier version, you might want to consider whether it's 
 worth splashing out on an updated player database, the latest international fixture lists, some 
 rule tweaks, and a picture of Kevin Pietersen.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Romanthony
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 3, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  I have been a faithful to the ICC series since 2000. I love what the game brings. The stats are 
 always up to date. The gameplay is always great and strategy is never the same. But the series 
 lack improvement. The audio has been the same for the past 7 years. 7 YEARS, nothing greater nothing 
 less. I heard the '07 edition will be in 3-D. So let's hope for the best.
  I hope in the '07 edition, there will be more commentary and more commentators. Also, pictures 
 of the cricketers will be great. The 2000 edition had it and a much better presentation when you 
 are on tour. Also when you win tournaments such as the world cup you should feek like you really 
 won. You get an unsatisfied feeling when you win the tri-nations tournement and the world cup. 
 Also they should include the champions tornement. How could they leave out of the greatest tournements. 
 Also, a 20-20 tournement would be great to include. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trezco
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 2, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Now, first of all to make things clear; to like this game you have to (as a rule) love the game 
 cricket, and after that like statistical things such as player averages, world records, highest 
 wicket partnerships.. etc. Now, if you have seen screenshots and the back cover and so, you will 
 think this game is now that good, but, this game is very good, in the sense it keeps you preoccupied 
 for a length of time.
  
  Good Things: &gt; Very good statistical values
  
  &gt; Player Averages, records etc. are extremely precise.
  
  &gt; The game screen is very detailed, 
 and they threw in some good looking shots on the playing screen.
  
  &gt; On startup the game doesn't have any ad's (or like things which helped in the making) .
  
 
  &gt; The Full Game is very good, with real and accurate tournaments.
  
  &gt; Good Youth Team/Oversea's player tables. Budget values etc.
  
  &gt; It takes up little 
 memory on your computer.
  
  Bad Things: &gt; The Graphics aren't great.. but still not that bad.
  
  &gt; The LBW is a little 
 weird. It can be a plumb decision yet be given not out, and vice versa, it works at random.
  
  Overall this game offers a lot of fun. I hope this guide has been helpful.
  
  Have a good 
 day!
  
  ~ Trezco 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Muhammadsaad44
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 9, 2006 1:41 am PT
Review:  The best management game ICC 2006 continues it demand for getting more and more but the most hatred 
 part of the series is lack of ambition 
  POSITIVES
  1-New update structure which seems very good when u actually sees that minors of the game are actually 
 changes in each worldcup
  2-Update database (not require a big brag)
  3-Improve wicket keeper generations (now they can bat!! )
  4-Halting generations ofsuper good 
 youth bowler which balances opener batting ability
  5-Power plays (not a big deal)
  6-Bowlers batting ability increases so now they can have batting averages in mid 20s in both form 
 of the game
  NEGATIVES
  1-No worldcup qualifications round for minors they just given a chance randomly
  2-Allrounder 
 bowling ability should be increase because after 10 years or so in the game no allrounder be able 
 to play more than 10 test matches
  3-Still no ICC champions trophy
  4-lots of database errors
  5-Being able to captain any domestic country in the world is a dream 
 which looks like always remain a dream
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jul 6, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first I have to admit up front that this game isn't broken, and DOES simulate many of the technical 
 aspects of running a cricket team. That said, it does so in a PROUNDLY graphically and sonically 
 uninspiring fashion. It's almost as if Empire Interactive tried to make a pen and paper game and 
 decided to make it graphic at the last minute. In this day and age, even the most spartan sim deserves 
 better than this.
  
  That said, it really does deserves Gamespot's 8 for gameplay. For anyone who bashes this game because 
 it's cricket, step away for a moment. Cricket is a complex game, with VERY complex stats, seasons, 
 and team interactions, and ICC '06 captures this very well (in a VERY raw sense) . If you love cricket, 
 an always wanted to experience running a team, this is pretty close. If you wanted to see it represented 
 on screen in a manner that more than just "we held this score card up to a camera and scanned it 
 into the game"... you're sc***ed.
  
  I just have to add however, that I wonder WHY this game was made. I firmly believe that this would 
 be a great project for a cricket enthusiat's website, but an actual GAME? That only makes sense 
 if the developers intended to make use of the graphical power of a PC, and recorded sounds and 
 speech. They did not, in an almost staggering way they did not, so I am left baffled. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
