-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Interstate '76
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/interstate76/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  1, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.9
Critic Score: 7.3, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 419 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Genre: Car Combat
Date:     Feb 28, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Interstate '76 is an incredible gaming experience and offers countless hours of enjoyment for those 
 who are willing to face up to its challenge. 

 Autmotive combat games have historically relied on action elements to deliver their visceral thrills. 
 Games like GameTek's Quarantine and the soon-to-be-released Carmageddon from Sales Curve have followed 
 the precedent set by first-person shooters - make it fast and make it violent. Interstate '76 presents 
 automotive combat as a Pinto of a different color. Combining a great premise with an excellent 
 physics engine, this may be the most realistically exciting vehicular violence since Steve McQueen 
 blazed through the streets of San Francisco as Frank Bullitt.  

 The game is set in the American southwest, in an alternate 1976 where the fuel shortage is out of 
 control. Vigilantes cruise the tarmac, trying to protect the last gas stations from destruction 
 by power hungry oil companies. The player assumes the role of Groove Champion - a tow-headed ex-racer 
 with one helluva mustache - who becomes a vigilante to avenge his sister's death. Under the tutelage 
 of Taurus - who drives a big sedan, sports a magnificent polygonal 'fro, and acts exactly like 
 Jim Kelly from Enter the Dragon - Groove must single-handedly thwart Antonio Malochio, the dastardly 
 villain behind the terrorist attacks.  

 The premise is clever, but mostly it just sets the stage for the cosmetic elements - souped-up muscle 
 cars laden with firepower and a soundtrack thick with slap-bass and wah-peddled guitars. The soundtrack 
 is brilliant - recalling alternately the theme from Starsky and Hutch and the danger music from 
 Charlie's Angels (though Groove looks more like a man who would have Black Sabbath blaring from 
 his ride) . In fact, the whole package sounds and looks authentic. The environments and vehicles, 
 even on the lowest detail settings, are strikingly realistic. And the dialogue is, for the most 
 part, great - with the one exception being the protagonist's comments during combat, which sound 
 strangely out of place and get a bit repetitive.  

 Beneath all of this eye and ear candy lies a finely-tuned automobile simulation. The superb suspension 
 models, and the way your car handles off-road and under the strain of varying damage types, are 
 frightening realistic (especially with the aid of Thrustmaster's Formula T2 or a similar steering 
 wheel-pedal combo) . Ramming an enemy car and then jamming into reverse and blasting away while 
 he struggles for control is truly exhilarating, and using the handbrake to spin 180 and take out 
 some chump behind you is enough to make you cry in your tranny fluid.   

 The game can be played in a straightforward, 17 mission campaign (labeled "The Trip") , or a series 
 of individual scenarios. The missions themselves are great and really diverse: some follow a straightforward, 
 "kill 'em all" directive; some require you to race opponents (usually followed by killing everyone 
 you were racing against) ; and others simply require you to drive, under heavy opposition, from 
 point A to point B with your vehicle in some semblance of shape. The missions evolve organically, 
 with your goals sometimes changing dramatically in mid-course due to some unforeseen event. The 
 maps are enormous, and you can drive for what seems like miles off the main course and still see 
 buildings and other cars driving on the roads.   

 The Trip campaign suffers the game's only notable flaws. The first is that you only have access 
 to one car (Groove's Picard Pirannah) , with the last mission providing the only exception. There 
 are dozens of vehicles in the game (all of which can be driven in the individual mission or in 
 multiplayer skirmishes) , and it would have been great to try different cars in different settings. 
 The second major problem is the wildly fluctuating difficulty levels. Some missions will be easily 
 completed in one try; others will require days upon days of unsuccessful attempts. Not that the 
 challenge is insurmountable, but it seems somewhat misguided for Activision not to have included 
 difficulty levels - or at least some options to make the game easier (there are built-in cheats, 
 but you are not allowed to progress to the next mission if they are activated) .  

 Interstate '76 is an incredible gaming experience and offers countless hours of enjoyment for those 
 who are willing to face up to its challenge. Less hardy gamers will undoubtedly spend a few dozen 
 frustrated hours behind the wheel, but the rewards are well worth the effort.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 12, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  1997 was a long time ago in gaming years and this was a standout game for that time. It one of 
 the first major releases to support DirectX when most gamers were using 3dfx cards at the time.
 
  
  In any case, the graphics were intentionally stylized to look blocky. The graphic effect worked 
 rather well and there were some nicely-made cutscenes using the game engine to push the story-line 
 along (most games would simply play a cutscene from a movie file in those days) . The arcade-style 
 car handling was perfect. The game would draw these almost endless landscapes to drive around in. 
 The car combat was VERY satisfying.
  
  There were some semi-sequels but they werent that great -- one on the PS1 if I recall (it had UFO's 
 in it of all things) and the other on PC several years after this one came out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Spielmann
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 7, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  There is little to say that hasn't been said already about this game. It was a wonderful and unappreciated 
 example of good game design. Its playability was miles ahead of its time, and I wish they made 
 games like this today. One of the few auto-combat games that feels truly inspired.
  
  The missions, the weapons, the physics, the endless roads... this game was too big for its time, 
 it was graphically demanding and it had an amazing soundtrack, really there is little more to say 
 than: This game is a masterpiece, it was so damn stylish (it is, still) that I am shocked they 
 haven't re-made it for one of the new portable systems. It would just be amazing to play this on 
 a PSP or a DS. Get it if you still can. It rocks. Needless to say more. Only the box, its lettering, 
 its logo... is enough reason to grab it. But then... inside, is a wonderful game that still surprises 
 me today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 1, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
  &middot; This was the first time I ever saw a game let you do a first-person driveby. I got the 
 demo with a PC Gamer magazine. A few friends of mine were over and we were playing the mess out 
 of this and Theme Hospital. Then, before I knew it, I hit a key on the keyboard, my guy had a nice 
 silver gun hanging out of the window, ready to take out bad dudes. The best thing about doing a 
 driveby, was shooting a car, watching it roll and hearing the horn blare. It planted the graphic 
 violence, which was a nice treat.
  &middot; If I'm not mistaken, this game got awards for their soundtrack. Amazing disco music. Besides 
 just the music, I love the voice acting. It was so fun to use radios and talk to your monkey friends.
 
  &middot; The multiplayer in this game is much like any other car combat, but you can design your 
 own destructive vehicle. Either a school bus with land mines and machine guns or a Snoop Dogg mobile 
 with oil spills and rockets. Design is everything.
  
  :Bad Idea:
  &middot; The graphics weren't that bad back then, but they weren't amazing, like some of the games 
 back then. Still, for it's time, the maps are massive.
  &middot; Shooting up a school bus. The children!! .
  
  :Overall:
  &middot; Interstate '76 
 is a great classic of the late 90s. It has afros, awesome car combat, huge maps, and some great 
 multiplayer. This is a must own for those who feel the need to bust some jive turkey heads. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamie_vv
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 9, 2006 12:14 am PT
Review:  I remember playing this game when I was younger but now I tried installing it on my windows XP 
 but I couldn't get it working so i bought my friends win 98 computer. It was sort of smooth but 
 lagged if more than 3 enemies were close by. The campaign was a challenge and great how you could 
 collect the parts from other cars wreckage after most levels. On multi player against computer 
 players is good after you find the ultimate car configuration. The gravity for your car when you 
 go off a jump/ledge is cool too. I highly recommend this game if you have a windows 98 or 95 and 
 love those old classics! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Speedfreak_R
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 24, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  I remember it clearly: we had a brandnew PC with a 166 MHz Pentium MMX processor and a friend of 
 mine came to me with a game he got. But his PC was too slow and so we started to play it at my 
 place. And man, we didnt stop! 
  
  Interstate 76 tells the story about a man who lost his sister in a shootout. Seeking revenge he 
 joins with her former partner to go after the man who did this. In the game youll meet some of 
 the crooks who work for him and with each mission youll get a step closer. 
  
  The gameplay is in fact somewhat like a free racegame with weapons on your car. Youll have the 
 choice in what angle you want de camera to be. I suggest you set it to the top-down view for a 
 better view of everything around you. Between the missions youll have the opportunity to modify 
 your weapons and other things like tires and engines. 
  
  With a small exception of the landscape, I must say that the game has great graphics. The music 
 is superb and gives you a great taste of the music of the 70s. The SFX are also great and sound 
 very realistic. 
  
  In short, it may be a little out dated, but it was one of my favorite PC games. Maybe just because 
 it was my first
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jadeki
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 29, 2005 10:05 pm PT
Review:  This game was truly ground braking in its day and if you have a PC that can play it, give it a 
 go. The soundtrack was amazing and something I ripped to CD to play on my normal interstate commute. 
 The studio musicians that played for this game put together a fine set of 70's funk that would 
 make any collection complete. 
  
  The online play (even via dial-up ISP connection) was both tolerable and fun when everyone played 
 fair. There were (are) numerous cheats for the game that allowed some players to dominate, but 
 this was back in the day before there were mediating organizations like MS. 
  
  The campaign/story mode was fascinating if you can deal with the stereotypes and un-PC nature of 
 the typical 70's movie. 
  
  Overall, a more fun than you can have with many of todays 'auto-shooters.' I'll rank it based on 
 fun (back then) , graphics (compared to today) , sound (back then) , and value (today) . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 16, 2005 10:06 pm PT
Review:  The Seventies are the time of Disco and Rock. Of big muscle cars that sucked down gas faster than 
 a martini at happy hour. But alot of those things changed the day the Oil Embargo started. Gas 
 became very expensive. Long lines ensued. But it was all overted in the end and gas got back to 
 normal. Interstate 76 takes the gas crisis scenario and spins a What If? type storyline. What if 
 the oil embargo did not end? And so starts the great story that is Interstate 76.
  
  In Interstate 76, you play Groove Champion, a former racer that is trying to find out what happened 
 to his sister Jade. Groove is helped in this pursuit by Taurus, the computer equivelant of Black 
 Belt Jones (Jim Kelly) . The game centers around an Autoduel like story where you roll down the 
 roads taking out people loyal to the cartels that are trying to destroy or take over independantly 
 owned gas stations. The story allows for some great muscle cars with big ass guns strapped to them. 
 The story is quite detailed and felt fresh throughout. The unique Seventies setting help immensly 
 in the immersion factor. I really felt like I was in the same time frame while playing the game. 
 If a game is going to be remade, this should be the one to do. Better graphics in today's environment 
 would be just the thing that this game needs. 
  
  The graphics for its time were stunning. The problem is that on my 3DFX card, I got all kinds of 
 graphical glitching. Graphics would turn into the Matrix code at the beginning of each mission. 
 And I would have to press the Escape key to pause the game and then press it again to get the graphics 
 corrected. Also, there was a lot of clipping in the game. I felt that this was stuff that should 
 of been worked out before the game was released.
  
  The sounds in the game are great. The game oozed that Seventies soulful vibe. Ambient music was 
 perfect and the dialogue was top notch. The weapon sounds were good but not as good as the voice 
 overs. I really liked the Taurus voice over and wanted to see another story that focused on him 
 in the Seventies as well (not Interstate 81, which was not good) .
  
  The gameplay was really good and the missions were unique and made you want to play more into the 
 story. I do have to agree with Gamespot in that some of the missions were overly hard. I had a 
 hell of a time getting past the race mission in the dream sequence. It took a week to get past 
 it. The multiplayer is fun, but not really usable due to a lot of lag.
  
  Overall, the game is good, but the graphics and the way you have to repeat missions is a killer. 
 But the story line and unique setting and missions make this a game worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warp_2567
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2005 6:25 am PT
Review:  Int. 76 is truly the most fun game I've ever played in my life!!! The story mode is awesome and 
 challenging. The weapons you can mount on your vehicle are so fun to use. From rockets to turrets, 
 landmines to flamethrowers, this game offers so many weapons to hone in your skills and dominate 
 everyone else on the highway. There's also skirmish mode, where you can pick a level and add in 
 bots for some more fun.
  
  Sometimes, though, I get mad at this game because its hard and it gets frustrating.
  
  The 
 graphics are cool. I like it.
  
  The gameplay is addicting! That's all I have to say for that.
  
  The sound is terrific. The 
 voice acting is sweet and the explosions and gunshots sound cool.
  
  The replay value is good. It got a 9 just because of the skirmish mode.
  
  A really really 
 good old school game to get. ITS FUN!!!!!
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
