-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Interstellar Trader 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/interstellartrader2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  4, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.8
Critic Score: 2.9, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 3.2, 18 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Shrapnel Games
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Mar 21, 2003

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's unclear why you would play Interstellar Trader 2, unless you absolutely hate losing at any 
 game and love to procrastinate. 

  Once upon a time, computer graphical limitations led us to imagine that asterisks were stars, and 
 real galactic emperors might actually have to make decisions based on keyboard choices A through 
 D. Playing Interstellar Trader 2 may make you feel as though you're playing one of these old text-based 
 trading games. The problem is that Shrapnel Games' new space strategy game also has the functionality 
 of an old text-based game. While there are graphics, they actually make the game seem less like 
 a game and more like an exercise in clicking on things for no good reason. While the latter might 
 be a rather cynical description for all computer games, Interstellar Trader 2 takes this idea to 
 its logical endpoint where you're actively reminded that by playing it, you're accomplishing absolutely 
 nothing whatsoever.  

          Interstellar Trader 2 has various random events, but they don't really improve the game. 
    Although you're nominally an "interstellar trader," the planets you visit are neatly lined up 
 in two rows on one screen that you can't view until you leave the planet you're on. To compensate 
 for the lack of an accessible map view, the game simply makes the map irrelevant by making every 
 planet essentially equidistant from every other one. Because fuel is never a concern, you don't 
 have to worry about where you are, if you even unexpectedly happen to remember the name of the 
 planet, which is just a random combination of vowels and consonants. The game never really creates 
 the illusion that you're plying actual interstellar trade lanes. Instead, you get the very real 
 feeling that you're clicking on a spreadsheet and that there isn't much of a "game" involved at 
 all. It isn't supposed to be a serious trading simulation, and the game's many tongue-in-cheek 
 touches (like the silly commodity names and random events like the galactic casino) keep the tone 
 lighthearted. Unfortunately, there's nothing funny enough in Interstellar Trader 2 to distract 
 you from the game's many fundamental shortcomings.  

  Good games make you try to figure out what course of action will lead to the best result. Interstellar 
 Trader 2 makes you try to figure out which good result will be the product of the least clicking. 
 Most of the game takes place in the city screen, which is a representation of all the different 
 places on that planet you can visit, or to be more precise, a representation of all the boxes on 
 your screen that you can click on. But some places can be clicked on only once per visit to that 
 planet.  

  One of these places is the trade center, where you buy and sell the commodities that are at the 
 heart of your chosen virtual profession of interstellar trader. Once you exit the trade center, 
 even if you made no transactions while you were there, it becomes closed. There is something called 
 the "galactic bank" where you can deposit your money prior to leaving a planet so that it cannot 
 be stolen by space pirates. Unfortunately, you cannot make payments directly with money in the 
 bank; you must first withdraw it from your account. You can see where this is going.  

  Every time you visit a planet, you end up first going to the bank and withdrawing all of your money. 
 Then you go to the upgrade center, because that's the only place you can increase your cargo space, 
 and it, like the trade center, closes after one visit, and you need to have the extra cargo space 
 before you buy your goods or you'll have nowhere to put them. Then you go to the trade center, 
 sell whatever goods you were carrying, buy more goods to fill up your hold, click on all the other 
 boxes in the city screen (like the prime minister, who may randomly give you some benefit) , fill 
 up on passengers and gas, and then leave the system. Except your last visit needs to be to the 
 bank, where you then redeposit all your money (except for one credit -- the game won't let you have 
 a balance of zero for some reason) . If you forget this and get jumped by pirates (there are four 
 pirate clans, which makes no difference at all, by the way) , then that's tough luck for you. You 
 should have been more strategic and clicked on "galactic bank" before you left. To minimize clicking, 
 you may find yourself just jetting around with all your money in your pocket and taking the risk 
 of having it stolen. In fact, clicking can drive strategy to such an extent that a viable option 
 is to spend the first part of the game building a huge fleet so that you don't ever have to stop 
 at the bank in the first place.  

  There are a lot of things you can choose to pay attention to, like the stock market, but this just 
 adds more unnecessary clicking. Because of the aforementioned lack of distance between planets, 
 all you really need to do is find a planet where there is a shortage of goods and a planet where 
 there is a surplus of goods. Then you just buy at the latter and sell at the former. In a good 
 strategy game, you would have to balance this one-way traffic against the possibility of two-way 
 buying and selling on planets with less one-sided economies. No such tension exists here. In fact, 
 the one-way method cuts down on clicking since you're not buying at the place where you're selling 
 (which would just mean more clicks, anyway) . Once the economy shifts, you simply find a new set 
 of planets, so there's not much strategy there.  

  Interstellar Trader 2 does a lot of strange things. For example, you can sometimes lose money due 
 to random events or spend money that you don't "have" in the sense that your cash is all in the 
 galactic bank. (The game will allow you to fill up on fuel for your ship even if all your money 
 is stashed away, although it will not let you do the same with buying other things.) In these cases, 
 instead of deducting the money from your bank account, the game automatically takes out a loan 
 for you, which you then have to go and pay off if you don't want to pay the interest. You carry 
 out this transaction by, you guessed it, more pointless clicking.  

  Even if there were serious strategic choices to be made, the game preemptively makes them irrelevant 
 by failing to include a time limit. Because the victory conditions simply consist of amassing cash, 
 and even with bad luck you'll make money most turns, eventually everybody wins. While this is great 
 for kids and nonviolent workshops about the power of non-competitive kindness, it doesn't really 
 work as a strategy game. It does, however, achieve the essential modern game goal of being open-ended. 

  The game's ephemeral nature is perhaps best encapsulated in -- of all things -- the save system. There 
 is no way to save the game while playing. If you save, the game automatically quits. There is only 
 room for one saved game,  which is erased every time you load it , so if for some reason you just 
 voluntarily quit the game without saving, your game is gone forever. This also applies to involuntarily 
 quitting the game without saving, such as when the game or your system crashes. In fact, we were 
 never actually able to complete a game with the 5 million- or 10 million-credit victory condition, 
 because the game always crashed first. On the other hand, it's possible that the crashes are actually 
 purposely built in as the time limit.  

  While playing the game, you can sort of make out the rationale for some of the design decisions. 
 The different pirate clans, for example, are supposed to steal different things from you: Some 
 will take inventory, some will take money, and some will just fight you to damage your ships. Since 
 there is no way a pirate should ever take money from you unless you failed to make the difficult 
 strategic decision to click on "galactic bank" before you left the planet, those pirates are out 
 of luck. When you encounter the pirates who steal your inventory, you may imagine that you're supposed 
 to make a decision as to whether or not you should defend yourself based on how valuable your inventory 
 is, but since the cost of defending yourself (via various stratagems such as using extra weapons 
 or using the "suicide volley," which there is almost never a reason not to use) is so low, there 
 isn't much of a choice to make here, either.  

          There isn't much to the game's planet-to-planet trading.    One of the game's major failings 
 is that it doesn't develop any atmosphere. You can choose the type of ship you start with at the 
 beginning of the game, but you never see a graphic depiction of it again, and the weapons you equip 
 it with or upgrades you make to it are just text, so that even though after a hundred or so turns 
 you might have a substantially more powerful and capable ship, there isn't much of a payoff. Furthermore, 
 this lack of payoff extends to the game mechanics, because while you can choose to start as a trader 
 or a passenger carrier or even a pirate, the game fails to present opportunities unique to each 
 of these play styles. Carrying passengers is much less profitable than carrying cargo, so you'll 
 eventually find yourself upgrading your luxury liner's cargo hold and hauling fruit. Playing as 
 a pirate is simply bizarre, since while you can theoretically make money by defeating pirates who 
 attack you, you can never initiate combat yourself and are thus reduced to role-playing some sort 
 of passive-aggressive pirate who refuses to attack anyone unless he is directly attacked first. 
 The game also fails to handle the mid- and endgames well because it doesn't scale well to the amounts 
 of money available later on in games with high-credit victory conditions. There often aren't enough 
 passengers and cargo to fill up heavily upgraded ships later in the game, and share limits prevent 
 you from investing much of your money in the stock market. Thus, you'll often find yourself sitting 
 on millions of credits making a few percentage points of interest in your savings account. It's 
 the community bank vision of intergalactic commerce.  

  Interstellar Trader isn't really even suitable as a quick-break game for taking breaks from whatever 
 you're supposed to be doing, because unlike the best of such games, there's really no challenge 
 to overcome that would make you feel that false sense of accomplishment that temporarily replaces 
 the real sense of accomplishment you'd experience if you just stopped procrastinating and got back 
 to work. All you do is slowly amass more and more money by performing rote operations (like the 
 forced order of galactic bank, trade center, and then eventually galactic bank) and watching your 
 cash slowly accrue until you hit whatever amount you set as your victory condition at the start 
 of the game. It's unclear why you would play this game, unless you absolutely hate losing at any 
 game and love to procrastinate. For $20, those might be the only two reasons to buy it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
