-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Iron Storm
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/ironstorm/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 29, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.2, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 358 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive
Developer: 4X Studios
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date:     Oct 25, 2002
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Its story doesn't make a whole lot of sense, and it's sometimes frustratingly difficult, but Iron 
 Storm is a reasonably successful action game, which is what counts. 

 Have you ever wondered what the 1960s would have been like had World War I never ended? Probably 
 not. Yet here's Iron Storm, a first- and third-person shooter that attempts to answer the question 
 no one asked. Its story doesn't make a whole lot of sense, and it's sometimes frustratingly difficult, 
 but Iron Storm is a reasonably successful action game, which is what counts.           The graphics 
 engine does a good job on large outdoor scenes.    

  The game takes place in Germany during 1964, which is apparently the 50th year of the ongoing first 
 World War. And even if you're not interested in WWI, you'll feel right at home with the game, because 
 the advanced technology and modern fantasy weapons available to you give the whole undertaking 
 an atmosphere not too different from that of any other generic shooter. The only real references 
 to the Great War are the occasional mustard gas grenade and the fact that about a third of the 
 game's levels are set in trenches -- somewhat improbably, since much of the equipment on display 
 in the game (such as portable communication devices, modern tanks, and advanced artillery) are 
 all technical innovations that made trench warfare obsolete. You might as well just pretend it's 
 a slightly off-kilter World War II game or a bizarre version of the Vietnam War fought against 
 Germans in Western Europe.   

  Iron Storm's gameplay is a cross between a straightforward shooter and an adventure game. Though 
 there's a lot of gunplay, the game also has a fair number of puzzles to solve. In fact, the game's 
 six levels are for the most part nonlinear, often requiring you to visit certain sections repeatedly 
 and sometimes offering multiple ways for you to complete your objectives. The puzzles are generally 
 environmental and often involve figuring out what needs to manipulated or blown up in order to 
 proceed. Your goals -- given to you via earpiece radio by an operative back at home base -- are often 
 a little too sketchy, though computer terminals scattered around the levels provide some useful 
 hints. The puzzle elements aren't overwhelmingly difficult, but they do slow the game down for 
 anyone expecting an uninterrupted shooting spree. We did encounter a specific scripting bug on 
 one level in which a door that should have opened didn't, forcing us to reload a saved game from 
 the previous level and replay a large section of the game. If you run into the same problem, you 
 may even become uncertain about whether an obstacle is a puzzle or just a bug later in the game, 
 so it's a good idea to save early and save often, rather than rely on the game's quick-save feature. 
   

  Occasionally, Iron Storm requires you to use stealth. Some of these episodes are frustrating mainly 
 because the game doesn't really have a stealth interface. Unlike in most games that require some 
 stealth, there isn't any real incremental feedback built into the system. You basically go prone, 
 crawl around, and hope for the best. One section in which you have to sneak through a prison camp 
 is a maddening exercise in trial and error.   

  Though the game's stealth and puzzle elements are occasionally frustrating, Iron Storm's fighting 
 is well done. The game has good enemy AI. Opponents utilize cover and know how to both throw and 
 run away from grenades. They still sometimes exhibit traditional AI lapses, such as running in 
 place after getting trapped on some piece of the environment and failing to react as their companions 
 are mowed down, but for the most part, they're competent enough and pack enough of a wallop to 
 be a real threat. The implementation of enemy snipers is handled really well. There are a lot of 
 them (especially in the game's best level, which takes place in a half-destroyed city) , and they're 
 deadly, but they're not perfect shots. Since you can go prone and switch into a third-person perspective 
 that gives you a much more panoramic view of your surroundings, sniper battles turn into an interesting 
 cat-and-mouse game of finding and utilizing cover rather than an irritating exercise in saving 
 and reloading.   

  Trenches aren't the most exciting environments, and unfortunately, Iron Storm's first two levels 
 take place in them. The designers at 4X Studios deserve some credit for making them interesting 
 at all. On the other hand, they might have simply decided not to use trenches to begin with. Luckily, 
 after the trenches the levels get more interesting, both visually and in terms of gameplay. 4X 
 Studios' custom engine powers the game's graphics, and it does a good job with both interiors and 
 large outdoor areas. It's also capable of producing some attractive special effects, including 
 one impressive scene in which the sky above a bombed-out street clouds over and then begins to 
 pour rain. The game's character models aren't quite as good. They look fine in still screenshots, 
 but they're stiffly animated and they often move in a floaty, unrealistic manner, almost as if 
 they're filled with helium.           Trenches aren't the most exciting environments for a shooter. 
    

  Iron Storm has four multiplayer modes. Along with the standard deathmatch, team deathmatch, and 
 capture the flag modes, there's something called isolation case, which is basically capture the 
 flag, but with only one flag. There's nothing wrong with Iron Storm's multiplayer features, but 
 there's also absolutely nothing that sets them apart from the same features in pretty much every 
 other shooter. There's also virtually nobody playing it at this point. Using the built-in server 
 browser, we were never able to find more than three active servers.   

  Iron Storm's combination of challenging combat and puzzle elements set it apart from most run-and-gun 
 shooters. It could have used quite a bit more polish, and it would have be more appealing as a 
 budget-priced game, but for the 10 or 12 hours it takes to finish it, Iron Storm offers solid, 
 if somewhat undistinguished, entertainment.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: grantcorp
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 11:44 am PT
Review:  Yeah, you all heard of this game's big selling point; the year is 1964, the first world war is 
 still going on, yet here you are in the thick of it, running around with a laser guided sniper 
 rifle in trenches rendered obsolete almost 100 years ago.
  
  The developers obviously worked hard on the art direction and concepts for this game and the grittiness 
 of the ruined battlefield and its inhabitants are the main attractions. The ambience of gatling 
 guns, gas masks, bombstrapped dogs and sniper duels is quickly ruined though, by the inclusion 
 of vicious helicopters, automated gun turrets and advanced submachineguns. At one point in the 
 game you are taken captive in an underground research facility where you learn that experiments 
 are being carried out on the prisoners. All of a sudden it felt like Castle Wolfenstein and I was 
 more or less expecting to be jumped by zombies while venturing deeper into the installation.
  
  The gunnery and weapons work well for the most part, although the weapons do feel a bit underpowered 
 and i never really got to terms with the inventory set-up. The default hotkeys are way off, and 
 I kept ending up with the wrong weapon in my hands a bit too often.
  
  All of these flaws can be forgiven if a game remains entertaining to play, and as you've guessed 
 already, Iron Storm finds itself seriously lacking in this department. Part of this can be attributed 
 to the tough odds. Not because the opponents are particularily smart but because you are pitted 
 against well placed snipers, ambushers warping in behind you as you pick up supplies and worst 
 of all, indestructible enemies. Yes, for some reason, suddenly the grunts you have been taking 
 down throughout the campaign become invincible. This is the ill placed cue that it is time for 
 a stealth mission, or that you need to go some place else to flick a switch. Particularily frustrating 
 is the part where you need to sneak into a prison camp where I spent a good hour trying to take 
 out an enemy helicopter which was onto my heels, only to realize it was impossible to destroy.
 
  
  The ending really takes the cake. Except for the token FPS "oh noes"-double cross that everyone 
 saw coming a mile away the more disturbing part is that not only do you not get an opportunity 
 to deal with said traitor, you also fail to accomplish neither of your two main objectives. These 
 are instead carried out by NPCs arriving from nowhere, ultimately rendering your crawl through 
 the rest of the agonizing levels completely unnecessary. At that point though, I was so fed up 
 with the game that I had resorted to cheat codes anyway. The last level with its backtracking through 
 a maze of locked doors and levers to flip got tiring really fast.
  
  Overall, the game does offer some enjoyment, particularily through the early levels, but due to 
 its difficulty and the frequent lapses in the action where I found myself scratching my chin wondering 
 where to go next, I can not really recommend this game to anyone but the most masoschistic players 
 out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Torq95
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 27, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Iron Storm is a game you really want!
  It's set in 1964, the 50th year of World War I, so it's set in an alternate history where two factions 
 fight each other for one thing: peace. But who's gonna win? The Russo-Mongolian Empire, or the 
 United States of Western Europe? Basically you'll find out, but once you hit near the end, you 
 find out that another faction has joined the war, and is apparently using continued profits for 
 themselves that has to do with the war but will be jeopardized by peace. You'll find out later 
 when you hit the final level.
  The game has siege tactics of WWI (trench warfare, mustard gas) with weapons of WWII (mortars, 
 tanks) and has been mixed together with some modern warfare technology (unmanned robot-turrets, 
 helicopters, spy satellites, wireless communications, etc.) . If this occured in real life, all 
 of these would end up with a few dire results.
  Now onto the story. World War I has begun in August 1914, but instead of ending in November 1918, 
 it continued on and this time, you aren't fighting against Germans, instead you fight against Russians, 
 in March 1964. Iron Storm has its own selection of fictional weaponry, such as the assault rifle, 
 flak cannon, and even the Consortium gun (guess what "Consortium" belongs to) which appears to 
 be some sort of submachine gun with a fast rate of fire and has a 50-round clip. And each weapon 
 has their own name (machine pistol's named "Heckler & Koch MP6," and assault rifle's named "MG-36a," 
 even though none of these bear relationship to the real-life counterparts) .
  There are some bugs and problems with the game. One particular bug is a sound problem with sounds 
 like like either loud static or an audio anomaly. Another is more annoying. Yet the game's difficulty 
 is really hard. You can't take enough damage before dying, and medkits are rare. You can't recharge 
 your health, so you'll have to break red crates containing them, or in rare cases, you'll find 
 them hanging on racks or laying on the ground. Enemies also will charge at you, so make sure you 
 snipe unsuspicious enemies with the sniper rifle and mow down charging enemies with your assault 
 rifle or machine pistol if you have any of them. There are also dogs which either blow up or bite 
 you. They bite hard, so kill them quickly. Also keep an eye out for the enemy turrets, they chew 
 through your health quickly so destroy them with grenades or rockets.
  That said, Iron Storm is a good game. The developers should work on the difficulty a bit more, 
 because on easy mode I get pinned down by a sniper on the church tower and I can't see him because 
 of the fog! Well, if you're a pro, at least get through this in at least 10 hours or less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saamsuun
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2008 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Grim, dry and highly enjoyable, with imaginative levels. A private little game that you walk away 
 from feeling like you were in an odd space. People had fun making this and it shows. The story 
 line is forgettable, as in i don't even remember it. I wasn't looking for a storyline anyway really. 
 You know those games that you actually feel like you remember you were there? Like maybe deus ex? 
 Sort of like that in an odd sort of way. Something nostalgic and magical about it, oddly enough. 
 Don't expect much, and you'll have a great time. 
  Oh and the best level with a dog sequence i have ever played. These things smell you, run fast, 
 and get right pissed. Collectibles were worth looking for, the sniper rifle was great. And the 
 last thing to mention that a lot of games lack severely, was the sense of space. Non tangible space 
 - not wide open sandbox level space - just a real unclaustrophobic feeling of space and being present 
 within it. I played it 4 years ago. Good memories. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splintercell_75
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 16, 2007 2:45 am PT
Review:  Okay this game got me thinking. I actually bought it the first time and through sheer frustration 
 uninstalled it from my machine due to the fact that I could not finish the final level. However 
 I recently bought it on sale again with the thought of finishing the game and after some trial 
 and error and different implemented techniques I did conquer IRONSTORM. Now the plot of this game 
 is that a battle has been raging from 1914 onwards and because the war effort is tied up with the 
 stock market the goal of some is to keep the war alive making it a profitable venture. You play 
 the main character sent out by your army to stop the emperor from creating some sinister weapon 
 that will doom humanity. That set aside the game play shifts between first person and third person. 
 I actually played the whole thing in first person because third person is a bit to cumbersome to 
 employ. The game rewards head shots so those who are accurate will have a blast. However don't 
 expect it to be too easy. On normal difficulty the game is still quite challenging and you really 
 need to find cover if you are to survive. The last level will get you thinking. If you think that 
 a run and gun method will work you are sadly mistaken. This level is frustrating as it is brilliant. 
 You need to deal with two tanks, an attack helicopter, a gas valve, electrified fence just to get 
 into the emperors bunker and after that put a bullet in his head. There is a twist here but I won't 
 spoil it. The variety of weapons is good ranging from a pistol to rocket launchers, to grenade 
 launchers. My favorite weapon was the sniper rifle and the assault rifle with scope. Later on you 
 get to pick up a sub machine gun with a scope!
  If one is to succeed in this game you will need to curb your desire to kill every enemy and adopt 
 a stealthier approach. Sometimes crawling is the only way to progress through the level, that or 
 shoot and retreat to some cover. There is one level in the game where all you have is a knife to 
 survive until you get your weapons back but that is towards the end of the level, so a lot of hiding 
 and striking at the opportune time is the only way to go. All in all Take 2 Interactive and 4X 
 Studio have done a great job. This is no walk in the park and when you do finally complete the 
 game you will feel as you did overcome the odds and beat the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 13, 2006 1:20 pm PT
Review:  The backdrop of World War II provides video gamers with a rich source of diverse operational theaters, 
 the potential for a deep emotional investment, and a massive arsenal of amazing gizmos, so its 
 no wonder that many FPS titles are framed within the European and, to a lesser extent, Pacific 
 and North African conflicts. The American experience in Vietnam  with its harrowing guerrilla 
 incursions and questionable REMF-directed purpose  is also fodder for many emotionally compelling 
 and pyrotechnically dazzling war stories. After that, there are no other international rivalries 
 vying for third place as historical FPS favorites. The ludicrously wasteful war of attrition known 
 by most of our great-grandparents as The War to End All Wars is conspicuously absent, even though 
 its emerging technologies  trench-busting tanks, rickety aeroplanes, hulking blimps, and lurking 
 U-Boats  would surely contribute to an exciting experience.
  
  Iron Storm still stands as the only approximation of a day in the life of a trench dweller. The 
 game is actually set in the 60s, but along a divergent timeline that assumes that the obsolete 
 and costly tactics of WWI continued on for fifty years. As the story goes, death dealing is commoditized 
 to such an extent that a cessation of hostilities represents a dear and undesirable cost to a number 
 of investors in arms manufacturing enterprises on either front. Iron Storm does a competent job 
 of incorporating the corrupted rah-rah ideals of a group of leaders who likely have no real idea 
 of just why theyre fighting into the storyline as brief (and often hint-laden) news broadcasts 
 from the opposition. Ive always enjoyed the use of piecemeal exposition through hidden or passive 
 artifacts -- like Doom 3s PDA entries or FEARs voicemail messages  and each of Iron Storms 
 updates were of just the right length and level of detail.
  
  Once the player successfully survives such WWI-era throwbacks as a thoroughly blasted no mans 
 land, gas attacks, and numerous fixed-placement machine guns, there are still plenty of deadly 
 anachronisms like assault helicopters and exploding dogs (I was warned about by the latter by the 
 expository newsreels, but I was still surprised out of my mind when the first pup detonated at 
 my feet) . Later levels are incredibly difficult  those KSK heavy cannons are almost always a one-hit 
 kill  but overall I was never once bored. I must admit that the stealth-oriented levels in the 
 enemys bunker/lab and, especially, the armored train were screamingly frustrating, at first. With 
 a bit of practice, however, I was able to navigate both areas without raising many alarms.
  
  4X Studios did a remarkable job of designing Iron Storms heavy, bulky weapons, machinery, 
 and electronics equipment from 1914 forward through the perspective of a culture trapped in the 
 gears of an unending war. The train was especially interesting as a huge traveling bunker, as were 
 the cobbled streets and shattered buildings of a town frozen in time. Iron Storm doesnt present 
 a true-to-life enactment of the first major war of the Twentieth Century, but instead builds a 
 completely new world around the wearying dread and ghastly carnage of that conflicts protracted 
 stalemate. Iron Storms engine and gameplay are still robust enough to entertain FPS fans four 
 years after its release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orgando
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 3, 2006 10:48 am PT
Review:  All I came here to say is, this game is so freakin' hard that I have to stop playing after about 
 30mins and relax with a nice game of DOOM 3 or maybe a multiplayer match in F. E. A. R.. Gameplay 
 is decent with a nice variety of levels. Graphics are neatly polished for a $10 game. The sound 
 is quite satisfying (especially gun shots) . The value is great because this game is only ten bucks. 
 There are a couple of problems though. For one thing, when you shoot someone the unrealistic look 
 as they slide back 10 feet and then drop dead is a bit wierd. The game is so hard that I really 
 can't beat the third level, it is that hard. It is not because I suck though. The facial animations 
 leave a lot to be desired and the box boasts cinematic cutscenes with a real epic feel, yeah maybe 
 not. In the end the game doesn't fill your need for FPS action, but it shouldn't dissapoint you 
 either. I give Iron Storm a 7.2/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isaac_ska
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 2, 2006 2:06 am PT
Review:  This is a good game to test your tolerance and persistance... It gets very frustrating at some 
 levels.... You really cannot cheat in this game much.... so, if you're up to the challenge of testing 
 your limits, then you will definitely find this a treat... It is very realistic, since you do not 
 play as a Superhero here... where you get shot a few dozen times and still are able to recuperate 
 and play. In IronStorm it is different, one shot to your head and you are dead meat baby....
  That's how the game is built... So, if you think you are a Hero... Prove it by completing this 
 game without the help of any kind of cheats or walkthroughs.... Are you up to the challenge?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stupidjason
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 31, 2006 12:39 am PT
Review:  Dont listen to the horrible reviews for this game Iron Storm is a fantastic romp in a fictional 
 story. Although the Graphics are not top notch nor is the gameplay overly fantastic but if anything 
 I consider it a test to your skill at any FPS.
  TIM! Ive never thrown my mouse in anger sooo many times until I played this game, but dont take 
 that as its frustrating the gameplay is very fast paced and the save system is easy to work with. 
 In all the game is great but it doest excel at anything. Well worth the $10 bucks it should be 
 now ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edubuccaneer
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 13, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Iron Storm is a breath of fresh air over an extremely dried out genre. Story-wise, that is. 
  
  The game makes an allusion to another dimension, where the first World War never ended, and 
 the present time is set in 1964, fifty years after the beginning of the war. The interesting fact 
 is that most technology for nowadays is present, the leap made by the need from both sides in weapon 
 development.
  
  You are a soldier in the allied side, fighting a maniacal baron's army in a battle that many people 
 long forgot the meaning or the reason for it. You'll get sniper rifles, assault guns and pistols. 
 The catch here is that you'll only be able to take one weapon for each kind. The game was a first 
 in this: you can take a pistol and the rifle, but not the rifle and the rocket launcher, for example. 
 That makes you take dramatical decisions over which guns to carry.
  
  You'll come across very intelligent oponents in the battlefield. Snipers are ruthless, so in covered 
 areas you'll be crouched down and avoiding fire all of the time. This makes a real satisfying feeling 
 when you take one down. Enemies can and will ambush you, even using dogs as decoys and most suprisingly, 
 as kamikaze units. If you like animals, you'll be mad at this game, because they strap explosives 
 onto a dog and let it wild...
  
  Anyways, other than the extreme difficulty, the game makes you think, since you won't be able to 
 go out with full guns blazing. Tanks will get you, mustard gas armed soldiers will gas you, so 
 you'll need strategy and stealth to get by.
  
  Iron Storm doesn't reinvent the genre, don't take me wrongly about this. It doesn't try to be inventive 
 or anything, it just works as a very good game made in the well-stablished molds set by others 
 in the FPS business. But sometimes not going off the path is a good thing and works.
  
  Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChickenMcBastrd
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 27, 2006 7:02 pm PT
Review:  As featured on loadedinc. com (2005 EU release) ...
  
  The First World War, WWI, the Great War. Its known by many names, was one of the bloodiest conflicts 
 in the history of the human race, and led to a revolution in fighting tactics that have been used 
 by the worlds militaries since. After years of trench warfare and machine-gun massacres, the revolution 
 of the tank and allied blockades brought Austria-Hungary, Germany, and the Ottoman Empire to its 
 knees. But what would have happened if WWI never ended? Thats the universe that World War Zero 
 explores. Unfortunately, this European port of the original 2002 game doesnt bring in anything 
 new and is as basic and rudimentary a shooter as they come.
  
  A coalition of Allied forces have banded together to defeat a determined  
 whoever else they decided to throw in foe. Its the 1960s, WWI never ended, and armies have been 
 put on the stock exchange in a random cheap shot at our capitalist/consumerist culture. In the 
 middle of this is you, a covert operative with a penchant for solving basic puzzles and massacring 
 progressively harder enemies along the way. Its not that its a bad idea, its just that its 
 something weve seen before. Developer Reef made no effort to add any original content to this 
 release, which comes a full three years after we saw it over in the U. S.
  
  The game attempts, early on, to mimic the WWI-style of fighting, with heavy action in fortified 
 bunkers and trenches. As you sprint from trench to trench youll have enemies leap out from behind 
 corners and appear from above. Its laughably easy, and a bit contradictory considering the games 
 inclusion of tanks and air strikes, the very thing that made WWI-fighting tactics and trenches 
 obsolete. There are sporadic machinegun and rocket-turret emplacements but will only come in handy 
 to eliminate the three or four troops that are triggered as a result manning them. 
  
  The puzzles are very basic and will vary from locating switches to open certain gates to finding 
 a grate to blow up in order to access the next part of the level. Those trite obstacles are all 
 that break up the rest of the game, which boils down to mowing down troops, reloading, and repeating. 
 Occasionally youll get some help from conveniently-placed explosive barrels and theres an odd 
 tank thrown in the middle of a couple levels but those wont present much of a challenge either. 
 The only difficulty youll encounter is knowing where to go next. There are times in the game where 
 its not completely obvious on what the objective is. Youll be doing a lot of searching and backtracking 
 on certain levels until you find the right ledge or oddly-placed window to jump out of.
  
  Levels are laid out linearly with a few exceptions which offer a separate branch to the same destination. 
 Some hidden areas will give you access to turrets which can be used to eliminate unsuspecting enemies. 
 There are plenty of dead-end paths that contain various powerups, med kits, and can contain certain 
 side-missions, not that completing them will help you along at all. In fact, its entirely possible 
 to get to the end of certain levels without completing the main objective. Youre penalized with 
 a deduction of mission points, which seem to be an artificial number included for the sake of 
 having points. You wont be forced to restart and the points dont seem to buy anything in terms 
 of extras, so it all seems like a giant waste of time.
  
  Another waste is the inclusion of the user-interface menus. A lot of the options arent adjustable 
 and the game will run at a fixed 640x480 resolution without being able to increase the anti-aliasing 
 or change your anisotropy settings. If something cant be changed, then whats the point in having 
 at all? The developer couldve at least axed the menus that werent being used like they did the 
 multiplayer. The act of cutting online play from the game is a big disappointment considering the 
 games weapons lend themselves to fast-paced multiplayer games.
  
  You start with a basic pistol and sub-machine gun. As you progress, youll gain access to some 
 nifty guns and gadgets. Sniper rifles offer a powerful shot with precise accuracy and excellent 
 magnification and the games Auto-RPG makes armored threats and sentry-guns seem like childs play. 
 Theres also a flamethrower, a powerful semi-automatic rifle with good zoom, a minigun, and a few 
 different grenade types. All told there are fourteen different weapons and each one is fairly powerful. 
 There are a few issues, such as explosive shots taking out a single enemy in a group without any 
 regard given to splash damage, but other than that they are very satisfying. Nothing will bring 
 a smile to your face faster than decimating an entire platoon of reinforcements with a single volley 
 from your minigun.
  
  You may miss the first time, however, because while the AI is relatively outdated, its still got 
 a few tricks in its bag. Enemies will surprise you from around corners and duck back behind cover. 
 If you kill some of their comrades theyll run away to regroup. Throw a grenade and theres a good 
 chance an enemy will seek cover. The majority of your enemies will just charge head-first into 
 the receiving end of your bullets but a few smart ones remind you that its called artificial intelligence. 
 
  
  If anything is for certain, its that World War Zero wont win any prizes for its beauty. The graphics 
 are straight out of the 2002 version and may come as a visual-shock to those of you familiar with 
 more recent graphical heavyweights as Battlefield 2 and Doom 3. Its sort of like browsing Playboy 
 or Page3 and then glancing over your shoulder to see Joan Collins disrobed and spread out on your 
 bedyour eyes will want to kill you. Textures are poor, and individual soldiers are rendered quite 
 poorly. Enemies may warp through doors and as you walk around certain levels youll encounter some 
 flickering, where walls disappear if you view them at certain angles.
  
  The sound isnt much better. Your communications officer, in contact with you throughout the game, 
 is barely audible. Weapon effects can vary from fulfilling thuds of rocket shells to the annoying 
 screeching of the minigun. Your footsteps will occasionally register, but most of the time youll 
 be running in complete silence. This works to your advantage as you can pick out which direction 
 enemy steps are coming but in the end is just another gripe to add to the long list.
  
  Even at 19.99, World War Zero is still too expensive to consider. Its gameplay and graphics are 
 severely outdated and essential elements like multiplayer and graphical options have been cut. 
 Anyone who has played a more-recent shooter will see no reason to buy this. The concept is original 
 however, and could offer FPS-newbies good training in rudimentary shooter gameplay.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Medpilot
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 27, 2006 9:24 am PT
Review:  Iron Storm is the example of lack of innovation. It is a shooter genre that nobody took the time 
 to make any different than the bazillion other shooters out there. It's like when a band plays 
 a cover of an already popular song... It's still the same song sung by a different guy. In the 
 plot, the places that are different just make it difficult to follow.
  I also found it had a few technical difficulties with my machine, but in the end I didn't care. 
 If you are looking for more of the same old cheap junk shooter, this is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MeltFlame
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 5, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Iron Storm was a great game for its time. It's premise is that WWI never ended and has continued 
 on into the 60's. The sides have completely turned and it's the Russian-Mongal Army against the 
 Western Powers. The entire war runs on the stock market and looks like there won't be an end to 
 it anytime soon. However, the Russians are working on heavy-water experiments, which could allow 
 them to develop amazing weapons. That's where you come in. You're mission is to infiltrate past 
 the enemy lines and find and steal the weapon/plans. It has good gameplay, good sounds, good premise, 
 and a decent plot. It's downsides would be its character details, which could have been improved 
 upon. The game moves along much like Half Life in that you don't have missions. The only deviation 
 from that is when it moves you from area to area. The game is very challenging. The enemy AI is 
 smart for the time period in which the game was made. They will run from grenades and throw them 
 efficiently at you. The enemy's weapons hurt when they hit and health packs are spread apart, though 
 far from non-existant. The game offers some interesting puzzles. In one scene you have to find 
 a way to destroy the tanks. A video monitor nearby shows the status on the said tank and how it 
 is impenetrable to damage, except for one flaw which is to blow it up with a mine. Then you have 
 to run past the tank to the mine and plant them in the tanks path. The most memerable missions 
 takes place in a hidden bunker. You're taken prisoner and have to escape which leads to a huge 
 stealth run, and then a train ride that is all stealth. One interesting aspect in the game ist 
 he use of snipers. The snipers are always well concealed. You won't find them jumping around in 
 a pink jumpsuit with a bullseye on them, and they shoot realisticly. They hurt when they hit, a 
 torso shot will do the least damage of taking half your health away and their headshots are instant 
 death. The game isn't perfect though. Enemies will clip through doors, the game causes (At least 
 on my computer) the computer to restart randomly or the game just exits for no reason and it is 
 sometimes abnormally hard. But all in all the game is excellent and one that should be played because 
 of the aspect of it being WWI in the 60's. I'd advise this game even though it's horribly outdated 
 for its intense gameplay and fun settings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharkluver3152
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 17, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Iron Storm is a game that is about what the world would be like if WW1 never ended. The bad thing 
 about this game is that the AI arn't geniuses and there are very few autosaves and some of them 
 are in horrible places. For example i was playing the game and i had low health, i went up to a 
 door and it autosaved, next thing i know 3 guys with machine guns come out and shoot me and i died, 
 now i'm stuck on this part but i don't want to delete my profile otherwise i have to start the 
 game all over again. Cool things in the game are that you can switch from 1st to 3rd person mode, 
 and in first person mose when you look down you can see your legs unlike in other games. Multiplayer 
 is fun and there aren't many cheaters, only problem is there may be a glitch that when you jump 
 you fall through the floor and die. Ironstorm is has a better multiplayer than a single player. 
 Buy this game in wal-mart if it is $11.31 (tax included) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 25, 2005 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Forget whether the game makes sense or not, if one was to question whether everything made sense, 
 there would be no games, among other things. You have to give the game credit for exploring WWI 
 warfare, and that's illustrated through many of the trench levels. This is a game for those who 
 love to snipe, a significant amount of this game is spent on figuring who is sniping at you and 
 how to sniper-countersniper. Think of the movie "Enemy at the Gates", and you'll have an idea of 
 how complex some of the sniping scenes occur. The game has a nice plot twist at the end, and it 
 certainly leaves room for a sequel, should the developers pursue it. I played this game on the 
 "Hard" difficulty and didn't find out until midway in the game that you can actually switch to 
 1st person mode instead of 3rd person. Playing in 3rd person on Hard was frustrating, don't make 
 the same mistake I did unless you love loading your last saved spot over and over again. Enemies 
 get headshots or neckshots almost all the time, and your aim in 3rd person is tricky to control. 
 Mine was almost always off of where I wanted it to be, and somehow my bullets seemed less effective 
 compared to 1st person mode. It's nice how the main character that you play, James, can only carry 
 a certain number of weapons and you can see where everything is placed on his body in 3rd person. 
 Here are some final thoughts. I wouldn't play this again in under the "Hard" setting again, it 
 will take a significant amount of effort. The multiplayer for this game is heavenly. Picture trenches 
 where players can move undetected and church towers where snipers can have a field day. All in 
 all, this is worth every penny from the bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chris3274
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 25, 2005 1:57 am PT
Review:  This game is a hard bugger to complete but I did it. I had to get a few walk-throughs to get past 
 a few stumpers. The storyline is good and stays pretty straight forward. Towards the end it get 
 kinda predicable. You figure out who the back stabber is before you actually see it. Graphics are 
 good for a budget game, better then most out there. Sound is alright depending upon which weapon 
 you are shooting. The standard assault rifle is quite weak but the sniper rifle is a killer. The 
 best thing about the sniper rifle is it's zoom feature. The scope can zoom in 5X's until it get's 
 to it's max zoom. I have yet to see any sniper rifle in another FPS game have that many zoom options. 
 Three is about the most I've seen in other FPS games. I didn't use much of the third person view 
 mode is single player but it's good in multi-player to be in that view mode. There were some moments 
 in the game that got very dark and depressing. Which set's the mood right for a 50 year war. On 
 the last level of the game. It didn't end at the point that I thought that it would end. All and 
 all it's a pretty good game. I lent my copy to a friend and never got it back. Which is okay anyways 
 because it just would have been collecting dust if I still had it. Which tell you about how good 
 the replay value is after beating it. There's not much activity for the multi-player realm of the 
 game. You'll be lucky to find any active servers for this game. Oh one more thing. Watch out for 
 those exploding dogs, they can be a real bi#%h if you know what I mean. I hated those dogs. I think 
 that they were the first suicide bombers in history, way before Al-Qaeda ever thought of the idea. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ufopuller
Rating: 6.6
Date: Aug 18, 2005 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Ironstorm found the author frustrated. The graphics and sound are just so-so. It took quite a while 
 to figure out who the gamer was and what the object of the mission and/or game was. Many times 
 being short of health and ammo it took a while before it was evident where health and even ammo 
 could be.
  
  The mission on the train was the most interesting and quite novel. Battling ones way from the end 
 of a wide train (wider than ideally practical) to the engine was a new scenario to FPS game-play. 
 As far as frustration goes, there is a sequence, near the end, the author assumes, where the player 
 has to immerge from a bunker while being barraged by a tank continuously firing. Needless to say 
 the author spent two days trying to get past the tank. Cheats were limited and would not help. 
 Friends from GS were no help. Being resourceful, the author found a walk-thru, but even that advice 
 would not get the player past the tank. At this point, the game was deleted and the author moved 
 on to the next game on the shelf. As a FPS genre for years, with an open mind, the author would 
 gladly try the game again to see how it ends.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 28, 2005 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Iron Storm is a FPS that sets you in a world where World War I never ended. Does that sound exciting? 
 Of course not, but atleast that gives you some since of what you are doing. As in World War I, 
 most of your battles will be fought in trenches, mainly the enemies'. 
  
  It just so happens the Germans decided to build trenches not to stop the advance of enemy troops, 
 but to stop the lone player from defeating them (aparently they've seen the games and movies today 
 and prepared accordingly, since everyone knows that one man is much more of a challenge than a 
 whole army) . The trenches are obviously made to chalange the player since they have no since of 
 realism what-so-ever, and quickly become quite boring. 
  
  While the game would seem linear because of the trenches, it actually is surprisingly open. Most 
 of your objectives can be solved numerous ways if you look. The game also includes a few puzzles, 
 which really are just blowing something up in order to get by. Unfortunantly most of the time you 
 won't realize it is a puzzle and will be running around searching for a door or somesuch. Your 
 goals are often given with little advice and help, so it will be up to you to find out what you 
 are supposed to be doing. This does get a bit frustrating since most of the stuff isn't obvious 
 at all. 
  
  You can use stealth, and many times you'll want to, but there's no real way to do it. You can crawl 
 around, but the game never tells you how well you are hidden. Sometimes you are required to use 
 stealth to get past something, which results in a long trial and error excercise that will truly 
 test your patience. 
  
  Luckily, the enemy AI is pretty well done and makes fighting pretty enjoyable. Enemies will run 
 away from your grenades, and throw their own for example. It's not amazing like a few other games 
 of its kind, but it will give you a few enjoyable battles. The battles are pretty entertaining, 
 but nothing amazing. 
  
  All in all, Iron Storm is a decent FPS that, if you have nothing else you want from the bargain 
 bin, may provide a few hours of enjoyment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Element_TAW
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jun 6, 2004 10:19 pm PT
Review:  The first time I played this game, it shipped with a game defect that made it impossible to pass 
 a certain point in the 2nd level. With the refination of the game, this has been eliminated, and 
 thus I can play it. The game is a straight-forward shooter, with tricky tactical elements involved. 
 The gameplay quickly becomes repeatative and boring. The story, which is supposed to be a big part 
 of the game, is not very well done. Basic, topical elements are covered, and then the game just 
 drops you off with little knowledge of the world around you. The things the game does bother to 
 explain are not explained very well, and just leave you frustrated that the attempt to tell the 
 story was even made at all. It has a moderate difficulty level (on the lowest setting) and easily 
 frustrates with it's odd mission objectives that you are left to figure out on your own. All in 
 all, I would recommend this game only if you are extremely bored and short on cash (I got it the 
 second time for only 10 dollars at Wal-Mart - the first time I bought it, it had errors, as mentioned 
 above) . 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
