-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Jack Keane
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/jackkeane/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Charming, cartoonish plot and visuals.
 Sensible puzzles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 A little too derivative of traditional adventures in spots.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 18, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.2, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 160 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: Deck 13
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Apr 15, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Jack Keane is a colorful and cartoonish adventure through the 19th century British Empire. 

 
  Deck 13 Interactive is proving that 2006's Ankh was no fluke. The German developer's follow-up, 
 Jack Keane, is every bit as colorful and cheerful as that romp through a Disney-fied ancient Egypt. 
 It was also one of those rare adventures that worked for kids and adults. The two games are actually 
 very similar in just about every way, with the same cutesy humor and lighthearted derring-do shifted 
 a few millennia forward in time. A reliance on obscure, overly traditional puzzles spoils the party 
 somewhat, but these old-fashioned conundrums aren't going to trouble your noggin too much.  

            Eerie settings and abandoned treasure are just part of the scenery on the forbidding 
 (yet still goofy) Tooth Island.      

  An out-there nautical adventure powers the plot. You play as Jack Keane, a Han Solo-like British 
 rogue tasked with taking a secret agent for her majesty's secret service to a rather ominous-sounding 
 destination in the Indian Ocean called Tooth Island. It seems that a madman named Doctor T is threatening 
 to destroy tea plants in the region, which naturally drives the Brits to the point of madness wondering 
 what they'll drink with their crumpets. The setting is the 19th century, when the sun never set 
 on the British Empire, so get ready for lots of fops, pith helmets, and outrageous moustaches. 
 Resemblances to LucasArts' classic Monkey Island games are entirely intentional, with Jack taking 
 part in a screwball escapade that gets progressively zanier as you unravel the mystery of Doctor 
 T's fiendish plot. If you've played any of those great old Lucas point-and-clickers, you'll feel 
 right at home by the time you encounter the crazed scientist's superapes and cannibal plants.  
 

  At times, the storyline may be a little too broad and a touch too childish. It certainly lacks 
 the adult edge of those old LucasArts games. Humor is kind of hit and miss, which probably won't 
 come as much of a surprise given how hard it is to make people laugh while playing games. There 
 are some nice touches here, however, including a funny Victorian variation on the distinctly modern 
 Nigerian banking scam, a great Star Wars joke or two, a Clouseau-like British secret agent, and 
 Flintstones-styled technology, such as monkey-powered electricity.  

  Visuals are over the top in a classic Saturday morning cartoon fashion, with lots of deep chins, 
 pop eyes, and exaggerated architecture, so the cornball plot is at least nicely complemented. Voice 
 acting is equally flamboyant, with many thick accents on display. Oddly enough, though, the list 
 of characters with outrageous accents doesn't include Jack Keane himself, who's voiced by an American 
 despite supposedly being a born-and-bred Londoner. That's rather odd, especially given how just 
 about everyone else in the game speaks with ridiculous English and Indian accents straight out 
 of old Monty Python sketches.  

           What would an adventure be without a femme fatale to complicate everything?      

 
  Puzzles are straight-up old school. Jack Keane is loaded with traditional point-and-click challenges 
 that can be a bit obscure at times. But, at least, they stay within the bounds of reason and gradually 
 ramp up in difficulty. By the time they get fairly tough, you should be thinking in adventure-game 
 logic. At any rate, there are real-world solutions to just about every problem. Need to feed a 
 plant some fish? Go angling with a readily available chain of sausages. Path blocked by vines? 
 Whip out Jack's trusty jackknife. Need to fix up the broken taillight on an elephant taxi? Just 
 take grandma's best jam, a broken-hearted wannabe pirate, a red sock, and -- OK, so not everything 
 is entirely sane. Still, there is more common sense here than in most old-time adventure games. 
 Even the more outlandish puzzle solutions can be readily figured out with some careful observation 
 and experimentation.  

  You'd have to be pretty hard-hearted not to enjoy Jack Keane. It may be a little too cutesy in 
 some spots and the puzzles may be a bit too obtuse or conventional in others, but the sheer sense 
 of cartoon adventure that permeates every frame drives the game over these potholes.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: TheFragcat
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2008 1:57 am PT
Review:  Jack Keane is a point & click - adventure game, guaranteed to make you smile.
  The game itself is very simple to play making it fun for anyone who plays.
  
  You play as Jack 
 Keane, a young captain of a sailing ship looking for an adventure. As you guide Jack through the 
 thirteen chapters you will meet all kinds of wacky characters on your way. The main aim of the 
 game is to battle your way through puzzles, man eating plants and flying monkeys to defeat your 
 evil nemesis, Dr. T.
  The puzzles themself are moderately easy & some of them can get frustrating, but overall they're 
 well balanced throughout the game. Alot of the time, the puzzles require you to collect objects 
 & combine them with other ojbects to make equipment. If you're struggling you can simply press 
 the "x" key & this will highlight the location of objects that could come in handy for you to progress.
 
  
  The game does have it's downfalls, it can get very frustrating when trying to find a certain object 
 just to progress. When you move around, the screen can also become annoying, the camera angles 
 could be better. The game itself isn't the best of looking, some people may find it too cartoon-ish 
 & bland but it certainly suits this game down to the ground.
  
  The best thing about Jack Keane is the storyline & wacky plot.
  Everytime you complete a chapter, 
 you'll find yourself watching a complete crazy & wonderful storyline being played out. Be prepared 
 to laugh. The interactions with other characters also works well, everytime you speak to a character 
 you'll be given a choice of sentences to say, so you can be arrogant & rude, or just plain nice. 
 It's up to you.
  
  Jack Keane is not to be taken seriously & it's definatly one to play on a rainy day. Even though 
 the gameplay isn't very long it's still alot of fun.
  
  With a game that contains an Evil Doctor, Man Eating Plants & Evil Monkeys, this is one you don't 
 want to miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: picklessmulan
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 7:19 am PT
Review:  Jack Keane is an classic point and click adventure game. 
  
  The Game is about saving the British empire from the evil doctor T. Its starts like an easy task 
 for Jack to sail the British agent to the mysterious Tooth island and end with an fascinating advneture. 
 After the ships wreck at the island Jack is trapped and gets deeper and deeper mixed in the task 
 to help to stop the Doctor T from breaking the Empire. There are many funny characters under the 
 game like maeteating plants and an army of trained monkeys. you also meets bandits and a beutiful 
 woman called Amanda. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are Very good with nice looking characters. Not just Jack Keane. The game 
 is cartonish and nice looking. Some details are hard to see sometimes and things can easily be 
 missed instead of uppicked. There are an function where you push X so you will se everythin you 
 can interactive with. 
  
  Sound: The sound is good. Soem of the voices arwe at there best but some are bad. Why is Jack speaking 
 american when he is from England? The best voices comes from the indian-english inhabitans of the 
 island. The Doctor and his Housekeeper are funny to with superb voice acting. The music is Ok.
 
  
  Control: The control is not so good and it makes th game frustrating an times. That what keeps 
 the game from higher ratings. You have to click a lot to get from Point A to Point B and its vry 
 hard to pick up stuff becuse the ppointer must be exactly on objects and that can be hard when 
 they are 1mm. Sometimes it can take up to 10 minutes just to pick up an object. if thats not frustrating 
 what is?
  
  Value: The Value is Good. The story is about 15-20 hours. And you are quite happy and pleased when 
 the end is there. 
  
  Tilt: The game are at times very funny to at times be very frustrating. The story is good but a 
 little childish at times. The puzzels are logical. The Loading times in the game was very long 
 and that was annyoing to. From starting the game in windows to you actually started palying it 
 can take 2-3 minutes. 
  
  + The graphics, The Voice acting
  
  - The Control, The loading times 
  
  Graphics 8
  Sound 7
  Control 5
  Value 7
  Tilt 
 6
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: asestar
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 8:26 am PT
Review:  Adventure games are all about immersion and the sense that you are there solving the puzzles or 
 figuring out what to do next. In that respect, this game is a mixed bag. 
  
  Graphics are the first impression for a game. And this game is ok, but nothing outstanding. For 
 once, the colors are just too bright and in-your-face. I dont mind the cartoonish artstyle but 
 making the trees in jungle bright lime and water bright blue only gets you that far. Also you cant 
 enable/force anti-aliasing on this game for some obscure reason and jaggies ruin the whole feel. 
 (7/10)
  
  Audio effects are better. Music is charming and voice acting is generally passable. You do get 
 impression that some voice actors are taking more interest in the job at hand than others. (7/10)
 
  
  Interface... thats were things start going wrong, badly. While the walking, running, selecting 
 inventory items and so on work as they should, you do get the feeling of being horribly our of 
 control. You cant tell what part is walkable and what isnt untill you click on it and wait for 
 your character to either go there or just stand around looking silly. There is supposed to be an 
 option to highlight interact able items (pressing X key) but it is far too inaccurate and incomplete. 
 (5/10)
  
  Gameplay wise the game is really bad. Story is quite bad and its very hard to keep u motivated. 
 Puzzles are often very stupid and usually involve get x, mix with y, use on Z. They can be so illogical 
 and hard to figure out (figure out what game developer expect you to do that is) that you just 
 feel insulted. Same goes for most of path finding. I still dont understand why a 6 feet tall man 
 need an elephant to cross a road blocked by a single fallen palm tree. 
  
  My biggest complain about this game is loading times. Just unacceptable for something with such 
 basic 3d graphics. It takes roughly 1 minute from windows desktop goes black to you get to menu 
 screen. Thats if you skip the movies. Throw in added 45-50second every time you go to a new area 
 that needs loading. 
  By comparison games like Hellgate London, Lineage2, Unreal3 and GRID take under 15 second to get 
 to main menu and around 10-15second to load a level on my system.
  
  This is one adventure game that i cant be bothered to play. It just didnt keep me motivated after 
 a few days, in no short thanks to the horrid loading times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShraZ_Zy
Rating: 8
Date: May 26, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  This game has a nice little story and you are a ship's captain named Jack Keane. This game reminds 
 me a lot of old school adventure games such as Runaway, Space Quest, Kyrandia, Broken Sword , Leisure 
 Suit Larry, etc... where you need to combine stuff in your inventory and apply it to objects in 
 the game. You also need to pay special attention so you don't miss an object or a road that you 
 do not see at first. I had to look at the walkthrough because I didn't know I could enter a 'hidden' 
 area. The graphics in the background are good but the characters could use a little bit more detail. 
 The voice also could use a little bit more of a funny tone. 
  Overall if you want to play a little fun adventure game that is actually long, you should get this 
 game. They do tend to talk a lot in the game but you can click it through :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JRIXM8
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  You start your adventure as an unsuccessful captain who is trying to find the "bad" guy and prove 
 that he is planning to destroy all the tea plantations! When you first start the game, the very 
 first video you see, brings some memories from lucas arts "the curse of monkey island". It's true 
 that, "Jack Keane", looks like lucas arts adventures but if you play that game you'll see that 
 this isn't bad at all!
  
  The graphics section of the game, is very beautiful with very nice sceneries! On the other hand, 
 your system has to be strong enough for you to fully enjoy the game. 
  
  The sounds create a good sensation of the atmosphere of the game. When you are in the jungle you 
 listen to the sounds of birds, water, leaves, air etc. The voices of the characters, are professionally 
 made! They represent exactly every character. (The same "voice acting" team, have work for the 
 game "Runaway")
  
  The gameplay is the classic point 'n click and you almost never have to "hunt a pixel". The duration 
 is a looot of pleasant hours! You never get bored thanks to the many things to do and the humor 
 of the dialogs! Additionally, beside the control of "Jack Keane", you'll take under your instructions 
 "Amanda" and that makes that part of the game very interesting!
  
  Overall, "Jack Keane" will give you some very nice "adventure playing" hours and you 'll ask for 
 more!!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
