-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Jack the Ripper
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/jacktheripper/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 30, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.2
Critic Score: 5.8, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 115 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: The Adventure Company
Developer: Galilea Multimedia
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Jan 29, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Jack the Ripper turns the usual gaming trend on its head: The developers spent a lot of time creating 
 an engaging story but hardly put any gameplay into the game. 

  A lot of the time, Jack the Ripper is a game that doesn't feel much like a game. While it's technically 
 a point-and-click adventure, it offers little in the way of substantial gameplay, with just a few 
 very simple puzzles and no real action. Jack the Ripper is really more of an interactive story, 
 where you move the linear plot along by repeatedly visiting a handful of small locations and talking 
 to the same few people over and over. Sadly, major bugs can get in the way of progressing through 
 the game's gripping story, and then to add insult to injury, the game finishes with a totally unsatisfying 
 ending.  

          This singer is one of the more sympathetic characters you'll meet.     

  In Jack the 
 Ripper, you play as a young reporter who's covering a series of brutal murders in the slums of 
 New York City in 1901. Most people believe the gruesome deeds are the work of Jack the Ripper, 
 who's supposedly fled to the US and resumed his serial killing. The real Jack the Ripper killings 
 have gripped people's imaginations for over a century while exposing the dark underbelly of Victorian 
 England. In this game, you'll have to explore the seedy side of New York, acquiring tips from vagrants 
 and prostitutes, getting tangled up with Chinese opium dealers, and cutting deals with shady underworld 
 figures.  

  This detective story is filled with clichd characters: the newspaper boss who wants a sensationalistic 
 scoop above all else, a police chief who seems to be stonewalling you, a hooker with a heart of 
 gold, and so on. Fortunately, the writing rises well above average gaming fare and manages to make 
 the most of these clichs. The characters you encounter feel reasonably nuanced and seem to 
 have their own motivations and fears. If the dialogue at times sounds a bit too modern, it still 
 brings the characters to life, whether the brash madam of a brothel, an Irish-American singer who 
 makes a meager living in a cabaret, or your pal at the newspaper who helps you out from time to 
 time. You can really start to care about these characters -- or at least find them interesting.  
 

  You'll work through clever plot twists and intriguing leads that will keep you guessing all the 
 while. The game makes the murders personal, too: When the killer gets wind of your newspaper stories 
 about the murders, he develops a special interest in creeping you out when he's not butchering 
 prostitutes. On top of that, you get to know some of the potential victims and will start wondering 
 if one of them is next in line. Sadly, the story suffers from a serious plot hole and some very 
 awkward and unexpected transitions from day to night as the tale progresses. Far worse, the ending 
 is about as unsatisfying as you can imagine. We won't spoil it for you, but suffice it to say, 
 you'll likely feel really cheated.  

          The seedy side of New York, 1901.     

  On top of that, there's really not much to do in Jack the Ripper. You mainly just talk to the same 
 group of characters (choosing from three conversation topics at most) , occasionally receive an 
 inventory item like a key, and visit about a dozen little locales. Usually the only decisions you 
 make are where to go next and whom to talk to next, and usually that's clear from the context. 
 Outside of manipulating a few objects, like a telegraph machine, you'll encounter only a few puzzles 
 in the whole game, and they're mostly very simple. If you run into difficulty, it's probably just 
 from overlooking a few small but vital objects. At least the puzzles are directly relevant to the 
 story and sometimes let you compare and analyze some of the evidence yourself, which is a fun touch. 

  You play Jack the Ripper from a first-person perspective, viewing the world with a 360-degree rotating 
 camera. To move or interact with things, you use a straightforward point-and-click interface with 
 a context-sensitive cursor. It's simple to learn, though prone to quirks and bugs: Sometimes the 
 movement cursor won't appear when you can move to an area or will appear when you can't. In fact, 
 the game as a whole could have used a lot more quality testing: Sometimes characters will repeat 
 the same dialogue over and over, events will reoccur in exactly the same way whenever you reenter 
 a building, animations won't start, or characters will totally freeze up. Twice, major bugs prevented 
 us from proceeding; we had to restart from saved games and work forward again to bypass them.  
 

  The game's camera system is also a little screwy: When you move the mouse just a bit, the screen 
 will often compress and expand ever so slightly, as if it were made of jelly. It's disconcerting, 
 though it doesn't affect the gameplay. The visuals themselves look pretty impressive. It's true 
 that the character models are very blocky, the animations stiff or unrealistic, and the lip-synching 
 prone to disjunctions with the dialogue. But the gameworld itself is finely detailed, with period 
 posters and signs, antique slot machines, a gaudy brothel lined with bric-a-brac and racy paintings, 
 and other memorable touches. The backgrounds tend to look pretty blurry, though, and you'll find 
 one big artistic failing common to most adventure games: Areas that should be filled with people 
 are mostly deserted. Jack the Ripper on the loose or not, you'd expect New York's streets to be 
 bustling in the daytime and not to look like deserted wastelands. For that matter, the few people 
 you do see are usually in the exact same position day after day.  

          One of your back-alley contacts.     

  Jack the Ripper's audio likewise falls well 
 short of excellence but still works fine overall. The ambient sounds are a bit too sparse, and 
 some voice-over accents sound dubious at best. Still, many of the voice-over actors bring their 
 characters to life by really acting instead of just reading their lines, as in so many games. The 
 catchy music is another highlight: You'll get to hear your Irish singer friend perform a number 
 of her cabaret tunes for admiring crowds. They range from foot-stomping folksy numbers to melancholy 
 songs that suit the mood of the game well.  

  Jack the Ripper is an ironic game, to say the least. It turns the usual gaming trend on its head: 
 The developers spent a lot of time creating a really engaging story, but they hardly put any substantial 
 gameplay into the game. Even by the standards of adventure games, there's little to do here. Nonetheless, 
 it would be easy to recommend this game to fans of mystery stories, but then there are all the 
 bugs to deal with and the grossly disappointing ending that makes you feel like you've wasted your 
 time. Jack the Ripper has a great premise -- but poor execution.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: William6058
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  Pros: Interesting storyline
  Cons: Too many major bugs, and boring gameplay.
  
  This is one of the games that first of all, shouldn't play. It has, like Gamespot said, very little 
 gameplay into it as it is just a point and click adventure. The procedure is this. Go to the place 
 where you're supposed to go, and talk to the people over there or do something else. Plus, major 
 bugs and instability makes this unable to play.
  
  When I first bought the game, I was excited to just open it and play it. And after 5 minutes, I 
 sit there drooling and keep clicking the left mouse button. This takes very little interest in 
 the keyboard, except for showing the map.
  
  The bugs in this game makes you get stuck in some point. You can't open up the map, can't get to 
 the door cause that FREAKING MOUSE WONT RESPOND...... And yes, all other things are pretty much 
 straightfoward....
  
  So, if you're thinking of buying this, think again. It's just $19.99 down to the trash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 2, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: In Jack the Ripper, you play as a young reporter who's covering a series of brutal murders 
 in the slums of New York City in 1901. Most people believe the gruesome deeds are the work of Jack 
 the Ripper, who's supposedly fled to the US and resumed his serial killing. The real Jack the Ripper 
 killings have gripped people's imaginations for over a century while exposing the dark underbelly 
 of Victorian England. In this game, you'll have to explore the seedy side of New York, acquiring 
 tips from vagrants and prostitutes, getting tangled up with Chinese opium dealers, and cutting 
 deals with shady underworld figures. Though out the game you there will be clever plot twists that 
 will keep you guessing and The game makes the murders personal, too: When the killer gets wind 
 of your newspaper stories about the murders, he develops a special interest in creeping you out 
 when he's not butchering prostitutes. You will even get to know some of the Prostitues and wonder 
 who will be killed next. All in all there is not really much you can do in this game, and go around 
 picking things up and investigating things in first person view with a 360- Degree camera. Graphics: 
 The grapics are not but out not outstanding either. The chacters are well done and so are the desighs 
 on the buildings and the lighting is good to, it really gives you the creeps and make you think 
 your going to get jumped or something.
  
  Sound: The Voice acting is only ok some of the characters could have some more work done to them 
 like Jack The Ripper himself. The sound effects are pretty creepy to listen to though.
  
  Value: There is not really much replay value to this game, You won't really want to play this again 
 because the story is not all that great.
  
  In the end the Jack The Ripper Idea was great but if the company spent some more time and had better 
 Ideas this would of been a great game to play. So sadly I have to give this game between a 6 and 
 a 7.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boxthirteen
Rating: 5.6
Date: Nov 16, 2005 9:09 pm PT
Review:  This game should have been better. It has a lot going for it from the outset  a compelling (and 
 almost true) story line, characters with character who you come to really care about (even as you 
 suspect some of them) , and a nice, creepy atmosphere. What hurts its rating are two major flaws: 
 surprisingly little gameplay (keep moving, puzzle fans  nothing to see here) featuring repeated 
 visits to a relatively small number of locations/people and the ending. As your reporter/protagonist 
 closes in on a New York serial killer who seems also to be Londons Jack The Ripper, the game nicely 
 builds real tension and anticipation of the chase and, presumably, the capture. Put as delicately 
 (and spoiler-free) as I can, the game actually delivers precious little of either.
  
  Kudos, in addition to the plot, go to the voice actors and the whole concept of having a game character 
 perform a full-length song in the middle of the game. What are the odds of anybody doing that again?!?!?! 
 Nitpicks, in addition to the major one regarding the games ending, for some sloppy translation 
 and spelling (The PinkertEn Detective Agency? Reporters who write chronicles instead of stories?) 
 and a major fact-checking gaffe. Obtaining tickets to a World Series game figures into advancing 
 the plot early on, which would be fine except that 1) the story is set in November and the first 
 and only time a World Series game was played in November was 2001 when the postseason was delayed 
 by the 9/11 attacks and 2) the story is set in 1901two years BEFORE the first World Series was 
 played. And why exactly does the newspapers sports reporter have to bribe co-workers to get tickets 
 for him? Cant he go ask somebody with the ballclub?
  
  You can undoubtedly find this game at a greatly reduced price  I paid less than $10 for it  and 
 it offers enough satisfaction to justify adding it to your collection. Just dont invest too much 
 money or time in it and don't expect a great sense of accomplishment at the end of your 10-12 hours 
 of play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: careroevil
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 17, 2004 10:25 am PT
Review:  Jack the Ripper is an entertaining game, if nothing else. Reviews Ive seen are critical of its 
 lack of gameplay. I suppose that depends on how one defines gameplay. There arent any pulse 
 pounding life or death confrontations, but the sense of urgency that the story line builds is just 
 as rewarding. The best way to describe this is probably as follows: If you like reading and have 
 the imagination which allows you to be drawn into s story, then you wont have any trouble with 
 Jacks gameplay.
  
  I found the twisting and turning in the story to be quite clever, particularly since some of the 
 names and indeed the very premise are all part of Jack the Rippers lore. Some of the names were 
 altered, but they are still recognizable.
  
  I suppose what this game boils down to is that if you get drawn into the story and the sleuthing, 
 then youll be able to get past the (many) technical drawbacks. I found it astounding that no patches 
 were or are available for the frequent screen-freezing that occurssometimes at crucial momentsthroughout 
 the game. I also agree that the human figures are somewhat primitively boxy. The best advice I 
 would give is to save a lot and be prepared to do some replaying.
  
  In summary, Jack the Ripper is (to my taste) more entertaining than most shoot-em-up games, and 
 at least on par with many so-called adventure games. I rated it a 7.3. 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
