-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Jade Empire: Special Edition
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/jadeempire/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Complex story and characters rank among BioWare's best.
 Pretty graphics and superb voice acting bring the gameworld to life.
 Alignment system is well designed and adds replay value.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Simplistic combat is unexceptional and unfulfilling.
 Limited character-customization options make leveling up unexciting.
 Only a scant few additions over the Xbox version.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 22, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 8.1, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 1,546 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Games
Developer: BioWare
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date:     Feb 26, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The PC version of Jade Empire retains the great story and setting of the Xbox original, but the 
 streamlined combat and core design haven't aged as gracefully. 

  PC gamers have been waiting patiently for almost two years for BioWare's Asian-themed role-playing 
 game to make it to their platform of choice. And in many ways, it was worth the delay for anyone 
 who hasn't already played the Xbox version. Jade Empire: Special Edition features a terrific story 
 that, like most great tales, is as engaging now as it was when it was first told. It's set in a 
 marvelous mythological land of monstrous demons and martial arts that's inhabited by hysterical 
 and heartbreaking characters, each with his or her own fascinating story. If you cherish strong 
 narratives in games and have appreciated the developer's previous efforts, this one won't disappoint 
 you.  

          I'll take door number one, Monty.     

  Still, two years is a lot of time for the cracks to start showing, and even with the added benefit 
 of slightly improved artificial intelligence and a couple of new fighting styles, the shadow of 
 other role-playing and adventure games looms more heavily over the simple combat and scant leveling 
 options. Enemies do exhibit better defensive behavior this time around, but battles retain their 
 general simplicity. You still collect amulet gems and have a large variety of combat styles to 
 upgrade, but without an actual inventory to manage or gear to collect, Jade Empire feels less fulfilling 
 next to more full-fledged RPGs. With both the combat and the customization options left underdeveloped, 
 it doesn't matter whether you look at the game as an RPG or an action adventure; either way, there 
 is some noticeable missed potential.  

  Yet Jade Empire: Special Edition is a very good game with a lot to offer those who haven't glimpsed 
 the beauty of its world. From start to finish, the enhanced graphics rarely fail to impress, thanks 
 to lush landscapes and unusual and fascinating character designs. Your journey takes you from a 
 martial arts school, to spirit-infested ruins, to the blue-tinged afterlife itself, and it's easy 
 to get swept up in the artistry of such fantastical places. Blocky character models and washed-out 
 textures may occasionally catch your eye, and you wouldn't use Jade Empire to test the limits of 
 your fancy graphics card. Still, the game is colorful and full of life, and it runs amazingly well, 
 without the occasional frame rate hiccups and long load times of the Xbox version.  

  While the visuals enrich the game with a storybook glow, the audio design truly brings it to life. 
 The combat effects are satisfactory, if not particularly noteworthy, but the voice acting is mostly 
 superb, capturing the essence of each character. What makes it more impressive is that there is 
 simply so much of it, and none of it is difficult to listen to. The Eastern-hued symphonic soundtrack 
 fits the visuals nicely and is both beautiful and understated.  

  The detailed production values will pull you in, but it's the impressive number of choices that 
 will keep you engaged. You'll be faced with a lot of decisions that push you in the direction of 
 either the "open palm" or the "closed fist," rough equivalents of good and evil paths. These choices 
 are found within the dialogue, most of which is lengthy and all of which is written with finesse. 
 For instance, at one point you are faced with the option of poisoning an upcoming martial arts 
 opponent before your fight begins, which earns you some coin but is a less honorable approach. 
 On the other hand, you can tip off the intended victim to the plot, retain your honor, and earn 
 a new combat style in the process. Or perhaps you refuse to do the dirty deed, but don't say a 
 word. Whenever you are faced with such a choice, your decision will affect your alignment, which 
 in turn affects elements of the story and other factors, such as which fighting styles you get 
 to learn. Most -- if not all -- of Jade Empire's replay value is in finding out just what happens if 
 you follow one path or another.  

          This little girl isn't everything she seems. Do the flaming red eyes give it away?     
 

  Battles aren't nearly as dynamic as the dialogue, although on the surface, the fighting sounds 
 appealing enough. You'll gather a number of fighting styles along the way that you can map to the 
 number keys, and you can activate any of the 10 you've assigned during combat, which is an improvement 
 over the Xbox version's maximum of four. Styles include martial arts styles like Legendary Strike; 
 weapons styles like Dual Swords (learned from the aforementioned potential poison victim) ; magic 
 styles like Ice Shard; transformation abilities, such as the endlessly useful Jade Golem; and support 
 styles like Storm Dragon, another helpful skill. The PC edition features two new styles, Iron Palm 
 and Viper; however, though they're fitting additions to the existing styles, they bring nothing 
 new to the table, and you get to use only one of them depending on your alignment. It's also perfectly 
 possible that you may not earn either one, since you have to read the correct scrolls to unlock 
 them.     

  The choices sound interesting, but once you get used to the different types of enemies, it usually 
 boils down to the same rote clicking. Each style has main and alternate attacks, as well as a power 
 attack. You can also activate focus mode, which is essentially like bullet time. The majority of 
 your attacks will use up one of your two sources of strength, chi or focus. On paper this sounds 
 fine, but in practice, you merely lock on to an enemy and slash or punch him a few times, and he 
 dies. If it's a larger enemy, maybe you'll use Toad Demon to poison him or Paralyzing Palm to stop 
 him in his tracks and then slash him up without too much interference. Most encounters -- even many 
 boss fights -- really are this simple. To help alleviate this carryover problem from the Xbox version, 
 enemies in this translation block attacks noticeably more often, and there is an unlockable mode 
 of difficulty available for players looking for a greater challenge. But the added level of difficulty 
 it imparts doesn't make the combat more interesting. That's not to say it isn't enjoyable at a 
 basic level, but it's relatively mundane.  

          The combat can be dull -- but it sure looks cool.     

  If you're a keyboard jockey worried 
 about how combat will control on the PC, you'll be pleasantly surprised to find that it works smoothly 
 with a keyboard and mouse. When you enter combat, you will automatically lock on to the nearest 
 enemy, and your movement will center around that enemy until you kill him, choose another enemy, 
 or disengage from targeted combat completely. It's a console-centric system, but it doesn't feel 
 out of place on the PC, and the camera is good about repositioning itself behind you when you leap 
 over an enemy or tumble to the side. You attack with the mouse buttons and move in a mostly traditional 
 manner with the WASD keys. Switching styles can be somewhat of a pain in the midst of combat if 
 you need to activate one mapped to a higher number key, but as a rule, the controls work perfectly 
 fine. If you prefer to use a gamepad, however, Jade Empire also supports that option, and it functions 
 much as it did with the Xbox original.  

  You may initially find yourself fumbling in the menus looking for an inventory screen, but you 
 won't find one -- at least, not the kind you're looking for. Your character has no kind of armor, 
 and if you purchase a weapon, it always replaces the one you were using before it. Instead, you'll 
 search for gems to insert into the amulet you wear, which offer buffs to your health, chi, intuition, 
 and more. Aside from quest-specific items that automatically enter your inventory when you discover 
 them, these are the only things you will ever collect that you have any semblance of control over. 
 As you level up, you will earn points you can spend on your health, chi, and focus, as well as 
 skill points to spend on whichever fighting styles you prefer. However, leveling up doesn't bring 
 with it the excitement you may be used to with other RPGs, simply because gaining a level doesn't 
 open anything up to you that you don't already have.  

          You star in a play as a woman playing a man playing a woman. It's like Victor/Victoria, 
 with you as Julie Andrews.     

  Jade Empire: Special Edition overcomes these nitpicks with plenty of small details and surprises. 
 You'll build a little collection of companions throughout the game, and you can choose which one 
 to have at your side at any given point. While they are only a minor help during combat, each one 
 brings a unique perspective, and several offer a sorely needed flash of humor and attitude. Some 
 side quests, such as one in which you memorize some lines for acting in a play, are well designed 
 and add some variety to the dialogue and combat. There's also a top-down arcade shooter minigame 
 to play whenever you take an airship to another city. It's just a little throwaway entertainment, 
 but it's fine as a change of pace.  

  Whether or not you should play Jade Empire: Special Edition entirely depends on whether you've 
 already played it on the Xbox. If you have, the few additions and enhancements aren't worth another 
 purchase since they don't add anything truly noteworthy, and unlike the Xbox-to-PC conversion of 
 Fable, which extended that game by several hours, the PC and Xbox iterations of Jade Empire take 
 the same 20 hours to complete. But if you missed it the first time around, the great story and 
 fleshed-out setting make it well worth a look.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (82 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: JoReph
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 15, 2009 5:45 pm PT
Review:  This is a good fun game to play. I liked how it has all that Asian folklore mixed in to a good 
 story. This was'nt a bad game, but I just want to point out that this probably isnt the best work 
 from Bioware. But none the less it is still a good game, especially at buying at amazon for only 
 10$ :D.
  
  Gamplay- The gameplay at first is fun and its neat using different fighting styles, but over time 
 it gets kinda repeatitve, clicking the left mouse button lol. One thing that kinda bothered me 
 with this game is that you can't buy any armor, or make your character look different. I know that 
 isnt a big deal, but I love it when games put that much freedom on letting you choose what you 
 want your character to look like. 
  
  Music- Great.
  
  Graphics- Not bad, but nothing great.
  
  Story- This is the games main strength and grows on 
 you. As you progress in the game the story becomes more epic and has several twists, just like 
 all the other Bioware games :D
  
  Overall, its kind of a simple Action/RPG, but its still worth checking out for a low price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The__MCP
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 4, 2009 2:35 am PT
Review:  I'm a fan of most Bioware RPGs all the way back to Baldur's Gate. Baldur's Gate 2 and Star Wars 
 KOTOR 1 are still two of my favorite RPGs of all-time. It was with much anticipation that I purchased 
 Jade Empire. What's not to like? A Bioware RPG with a kung-fu mystical theme. I thought this game 
 was going to knock my socks off. Sadly, it did no such thing.
  
  If you played KOTOR, this game is really not much different. Very similar action formula. Same 
 good/evil meter based on you dialogue choices. Similar quest system. When I look back, KOTOR wasn't 
 exactly a difficult game, but maybe my love for Star Wars masked some of its simplicity, because 
 the ease of Jade Empire bored me to tears.
  
  Maybe it was because I read so much about how Bioware was spending years on the Jade Empire combat 
 system, but in reality, it's a simply two or three button click fest. One button for attacks, one 
 button for blocks, and one button for heavy attacks that will break the block of your opponent. 
 Sure, there are several different styles. Some are ranged magic attacks, some are Bruce Lee-esque 
 combat moves, and some are just raw barbarian attacks, but in the end, it gets boring... fast! 
 It doesn't help that the inventory and skill system is streamlined so that even one of Jeff Foxworthy's 
 5th graders could quickly understand it. You basically have one amulet with gems that you can swap 
 in and out, much like the materia system in Final Fantasy 7. You can upgrade your combat styles, 
 but you're basically just increasing the damage with each notch. And the attributes are 3 basic 
 stats that reflect your spirit power, your mind power, and your physical power. It takes about 
 30 seconds to learn how to play, and if you REALLY want to just skip to the end, some styles are 
 overpowered compared to others and you can quickly fight your way through the game without dying.
 
  
  The story is boring. It starts out fun, but becomes a yawn fest. I found myself picking dialogue 
 options that I knew would resort in the least amount of labor, not because I was immersed in thee 
 story and wanted to role-play my hero as a noble kung-fu master or deviant shaman. The side quests 
 are for the most part lame, with a few mind games and logic puzzles inserted here and there to 
 add variety. I think I already know the fate of my character and his sensei but frankly, I'm too 
 bored to finish the game to find out what happens. 
  
  I can see this game as appealing to some people, but to me it's a dud. It's definitely a game handled 
 with care but the stories and dumbed down skill and fighting system just make it a tedious and 
 mundane gameplay experience, rather than a thrilling journey. Better luck with your next original 
 RPG Bioware. (Dragon Age) And memo to RPG developers (this includes you Bethesda with your Fallout 
 3 a clone of Oblivion) : I know you need to save money and use the same engines but please make 
 your next games feel JUST a little bit different than the game before if it's not a sequel. Otherwise, 
 my next RPG will just be a product by an entirely new developer because once you mastered KOTOR, 
 Jade Empire, and even Mass Effect, were a walk in the park. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathmatt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 7:16 am PT
Review:  Having been a big fan of Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, this game was right up my alley. 
 A quality experience that draws you deep into a riveting story with a great twist at the end. I 
 loved the graphics and turned them all way up. I first played it when it came out, but only about 
 10 hours worth. I had to start from the beginning this time but it was great to get into it again. 
 This time round I chose Furious Ming and focused of the sword. The overall engine plays well and 
 if you're also playing Mass Effect, you will see very clearly where the game design and technology 
 for Mass Effect was last year. The game length was also just about right. My wife certainly watched 
 a lot of the story while I played and the story threads are more than sufficient to give you many 
 hours digging. Well done design team and I can't wait for a Jade Empire Two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _HAV0C_
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 13, 2008 3:41 am PT
Review:  
  In jade empire, you are a martial arts student who's master was kidnapped by the warrior-servants 
 of the evil emperor. You set out on a journey through the empire to find and save you master, and 
 along the way you will form you party of ten-twelve members, engage in numerous side plots and 
 learn anywhere from twenty to thirty fighting styles, which include hand-to-hand combat, melee 
 weapons, ranged weapons, magic styles and morphs of several powerful demons and spirits. 
  
  Game's story starts off slowly. Very, very slowly. However, once you are done with place called 
 Tien's landing you will travel to "Imperial City", and from there game play gets much, much better, 
 faster and more entertaining. As a bonus, if you have beaten the game once you can start a new 
 game with your old character, which will have all styles, abilities and it's level; this will save 
 you from experiencing the boredom of early game play the second time you play through the game. 
 There is a wide variety of different fighting styles, where every one is unique. You can "equip" 
 up to ten fighting styles, which proves useful in boss fights. Each fighting style can be upgraded. 
 Majority of the styles is well  balanced against your enemies. 
  
  Despite well-made fighting system, game severely lacks some essential RPG elements, such, for example, 
 as collecting/upgrading items. There are only two kinds of items you can find: ether some kind 
 of gem for your amulet or some money. That's it. 
  
  Game's graphics are 'okay', not great. While delivering a tolerable visual, game just doesn't feel 
 'alive', it doesn't look realistic enough. But that's not the biggest weakness of the game. Most 
 obvious weakness is the lack of depth and personality of every single character, even the protagonist. 
 Out of 12 members of your party you will get SOME info on two, maybe three of them, the others 
 are just kind of there and play no essential role in the storyline OR sidequests, meaning they 
 serve no real purpose (take for example that weird looking guy who tosses you bottles of alcohol 
 while you fight; probably the most useless party member of the game) . 
  
  Over all, some might enjoy Jade Empire, while others, after playing through it will be unsure whether 
 it was worth their time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 20, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  The games I appreciate require me to think, which is why I prefer games over movies. I get bored 
 if I'm not planning something, solving some puzzle, *thinking*. Jade Empire requires none of that. 
 It's another boring, predictable movie that for some reason requires you to move it along. 
  
  I'll start with the positives. It's not medieval fantasy. Now to the negatives.
  
  Even 
 Diablo and its 'clones', mostly referred to as mindless hack and slash fests, require more thought 
 than JE. In these you at least plan out your character's skills, and attributes generally have 
 a profound effect on your character. You at least have to put a second thought into what gear to 
 use. Jade Empire? Stats merely increase health / mana / focus, which you can just buy some techniques 
 that improve anyways. They also increase your conversation stats, but *all* of them increase some 
 conversation stat. It all seems rather pointless to care about what conversation style you're best 
 at when every one of them can accomplish the same damn thing.
  
  Upon leveling you also get 10 points to distribute to your different styles, which you can use 
 to increase the style's speed / damage / magic damage. You gain styles as you play through the 
 movie... I mean story. You only miss out on a couple through choices (evil characters get this 
 style and good characters get that style! Yay choices!)
  
  Now companions. A perfect opportunity to allow even more THINKING AND PLANNING by allowing you 
 to develop your companions. But that entertainment is for other games. In Jade Empire, companions 
 are just... there. They don't level, they don't have any interesting abilities, the one you can 
 use in battle rarely has any affect over it. In all honesty there's not much point to them other 
 than for story purposes. In that aspect you're in for a treat! You'll meet such lovable and original 
 characters such as the drunk and dumb warrior, or the dashing and witty thief, or the reserved 
 gaurdian with a terrible seceret, and lets not forget the princess who hates being cooped up (which 
 does remind me of the one other positive JE offers: hot asians) .
  
  All I'll say on combat is Quake III satisfies my twitch cravings, give me something else, thank 
 you.
  
  But it all means nothing. Thousands will scream it's "one of the greatest RPGs ever!", or that 
 "Bioware has done it again!" and I'll continue to see more movie games instead of... games. It 
 leaves me discouraged over what will become of the 'spiritual successor' to my most favorite game, 
 Baldur's Gate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kueiyen
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 14, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  I don't own a X-box and I had been dreaming and hoping that this game would come to pc. Lucky, 
 my dream came true. However, the game is very disappointing, and is far from what i expected. I 
 am a fan of KOTOR series, however, I always hope the KOTOR can be a bit more action intensive intsead 
 of dice roll chance system. Hence, I was very please by the game's trailer when it demonstrate 
 its action based rpg... when character leap into air and perform stylized kong-fu...... but thing 
 is not what it seem to be. 
  
  The kong-fu animation is cool, but it is not that action based, not freaking mouse clicker game 
 like fable, or gothic. It is not like stylize action like devil may cry. It is still follow the 
 same system like KOTOR that action is command based, however, it is different from KOtor that commend 
 is process in real time, instead being freeze to giving command.
  
  The game contains no inventory for potion or weapons, armors,
  when obtain a new weapn, old one 
 is replaced... (hey, who say i didn't need it) . You don't get to wear any new fancy armor, just 
 the same old cloth from beginning to the end. 
  Meanwhile, there is no potion to heal your wounds. your survival rely solely on your physic. You 
 basically heal by using your chi (so call mana) energy. if you run out of mana, and is seriously 
 wounds, there is no other way to keep you alive becasue there is no potion for restoring you mana. 
 The only way to restore mana is to find site specific mana fountain.
  
  Well, I like the overall design, but I find the overall theme rather too steretypical in term of 
 people's name, and characteristic depiction. 
  
  The game use only singular map, and has no backtracking if you want to visit places you been. When 
 the story progress, it, just push you to new area while erase route to go back.
  
  
  
  And the worst part is that it is difficult to level you as much as you wish, becasue there is very 
 limited enemy that once you killed them, there won't be anyone left in the area. (even restarting 
 the game) . I feel rather loney to wonder around without enemies. 
  
  The graphic is good but a bit date. I don't think the graphic matter much in this game. I feel 
 it could been a great game, but I feel the developer didn't spend enough effort to make this game 
 more complete as a solid RPG.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Since it was develop by the team who work the KOTOR, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigadam94
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  In the beginning it looks like a simple 'hack and slash' RPG, but after a few minutes you realise: 
 this isn't a simple game..
  The story is amazing. You can see some great twists, but I don't want to tell you spoilers.. The 
 fighting system is simple but fun, and it doesn't get boring.
  You can switch your 'battle-styles' with the numbers, and you control the character with WASD. 
 
  You can choose: Dark Side (Closed Fist) or Light Side (Open Palm) . Later you will gain side-specific 
 battlestyles, so don't stay 'Neutral' I say...
  You will travel around many different locations: Forests, Villages, Towns, Arenas, Secret Bases... 
 But sadly the graphics isn't very good..
  And the second big problem: the game is pretty short..
  
  Anyways, I think every casual / hardcore 
 player should try this nice game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyatt4ever
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 11:51 pm PT
Review:  I would like to preface this by saying: I love Bioware. I have grown up playing their games. I 
 started with the original Baldur's Gate and eagerly await Dragon Age and Mass Effect 2. This game 
 was beneath them. 
  
  I remember the original hype for this game. How the main character would operate from his personal 
 stronghold, a hub for quests and NPCs. However, the protagonist could assign his followers to accomplish 
 side quests in his stead. Warriors such as Black Whirlwind would fail at more delicate missions 
 requiring diplomacy but excel at anything that required bashing in skulls. This would free up the 
 game to exploring the fantastic world Bioware had crafted. One which would not directly reflect 
 any country, but be an amalgamation of concepts and ideas. What we got was a tent and a fire. 
 
  
  Jade Empire suffers from glaring omissions. While games will often change during development, the 
 sense that the product was rushed out the door permeates this game. 
  
  Perhaps the scope of the game was too much. In any case, I could not shake the eerie feeling that 
 most of the game's locations had been cut to make the deadline. For example, the town blacksmith 
 describes in detail a mining area which is overrun with the spirits of the dead. Naturally, I assumed 
 I would venture there. However, you indirectly solve the problem by restoring the natural balance. 
 The remaining content is only 2 permanent cities and one town that becomes unavailable. 
  
  This brings up a certain irony. Whenever you travel between the two areas, you are brought to a 
 map which you use to select your destination. However, there are only two points on this entire 
 map. 
  
  Still, the game should be judged on its merits alone not on the content that is missing. The game's 
 new morality system is the same as the old one from KOTOR. Taking the Closed Fist route boils down 
 to being a greedy bastard who kills people for fun, while Open Palm masters would have given Mother 
 Teresa a run for her money. The game features some of the most obvious references to China. Whether 
 it be the Emperor's betrayal of his people's trust or a dam which threatens his people, Jade Empire 
 crams its message down your throat.
  
  The story is ridiculous. The entire story hinges on suspending your disbelief at some of the worst 
 plot twists since Lady in the Water. Since the protagonist masters several different styles over 
 the course of their journey, the twist doesn't even function within the game's internal logic. 
 Did I mention that you beat death in this game?
  
  Then again, the characters do not follow the game's internal logic. You have a mad scientist who 
 was being chased for causing massive and widespread destruction. Yet his only significant contribution 
 is a flyer that you'll use to travel between the two cities in the game. You even have the requisite 
 princess, Silk Fox, who escapes from the palace to dress up as a ninja. Apparently, it is easy 
 to break in and out of the Imperial palace.
  
  Despite a large roster, your teammates are utterly useless. No matter their background, their combat 
 ability is pathetic. For all his purported skill, Black Whirlwind cannot handle one enemy. Did 
 I mention that the ally AI will always target the enemy that you are not? This means your allies 
 do not even serve as decent meat shields. In fact, the best use of your allies is to have them 
 meditate on the battlefield. Meditate. In the middle of a battle. They become immune and will boost 
 a given stat for the duration. 
  
  This brings up the most pressing issue: Balance. Combat boils down to dodging and counterattacking 
 until one purchases Storm Dragon. This style allows you to stun any organic being, 95% of the enemies 
 in the game.
  Keeping several opponents permanently stunned is actually surprisingly easy. In fact, the final 
 boss can be killed with this method quite easily without a single scratch on your being. 
  
  Overall, I would recommend you spend your money elsewhere. The game does have fun quests, but 
 with games such as Mass Effect available, I would leave this one to fade into obscurity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zero2infinity
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 11, 2008 11:55 pm PT
Review:  Another RPG game which is somewhat similar to Fable: The Lost Chapters. Fighting styles used in 
 this game is highly entertaining. You get to know nearly most of the ancient martial art techniques. 
 You have a list of people to choose from to start with. Each of them has different skills. 
  
  Most importantly the graphics are stunning. You get to see and experience mythological places. 
 The storyline is exciting as well. And it is told to us using gameplay and a lot of cutscenes.
 
  
  There are some significant negative factors about this game. Mainly it is really short. You don't 
 really get sufficient time to reach the highest level in different fighting styles and personal 
 attributes. And I feel that it is demanding us to replay the game. (But it is highly re-playable) . 
 And leveling up is not so much fun. And there are a lot of ingame movies (or cutscenes) which makes 
 you feel as if you're watching the game rather than playing it.
  
  But I would still recommend this game to people who played and loved KOTOR and Fable: The Lost 
 Chapters. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 6, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  After recently playing Mass Effect PC, I decided to pick up BioWare's other action RPG, Jade Empire, 
 which was released in 2005 for Xbox and ported to the PC in 2007. While it doesn't have that special 
 spark that made Star Wars KOTOR and Mass Effect masterpieces, Jade Empire is still great in its 
 own right. Jade Empire takes place in an Asian-fantasy land full of fantastic creatures. Most of 
 the inspiration is from Chinese mythology and BioWare really took the time to research and make 
 you really feel part of the world that they've created. You play as a student who is forced to 
 rescue his Master and discover the corruption at the seat of the Jade Empire, but it wouldn't be 
 a BioWare game if the story wasn't filled with twists and turns. It's very well-written like their 
 other games due to the large amount of dialogue and every character has a story to tell. The graphics 
 aren't up to snuff now; they were quite advanced in 2005 and still looked good in 2007 due to higher 
 resolutions but after CryEngine 2 and Unreal Engine 3.0, it looks really dated but this is due 
 to the age of the game, not the game's fault. Sound is again the best feature with large amounts 
 of spoken dialogue delivered excellently by the voice actors. The music is also great and it plays 
 with an Asian flavor to them. The one disappointing factor would be some the RPG elements. They're 
 way too streamlined. For one thing, you only have 3 statistics to worry about and there's no true 
 inventory, so your appearance throughout the game will stay the same no matter what. You also can't 
 level up your followers. The combat is pretty good, where you'll gain a variety of fighting styles 
 drawn from kung-fu movies and weapon styles. You can also transform into a variety of demons to 
 dish out extra damage. The camera works well but it will get wonky in some rare instances. The 
 interface has been tweaked for the PC and you can switch styles with a press of a button. As for 
 the PC version, you get a few extras packaged in such as a poster and an Art Book and exclusive 
 fighting styles and demons. Overall, it doesn't reach the level that BioWare's games usually strive 
 for but it is worth playing and great in its own right due to the story and setting. BioWare fan's 
 should pick it up if they haven't played it, I managed to get a new copy at the LOW price of $9.97! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninja_nick118
Rating: 5
Date: May 26, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Okay i did not want to have to give this game a bad review as i believed it would be everything 
 i could have hoped for. I enjoyed playing the KOTOR series on xbox but found that this game did 
 not live up to the standards of KOTOR. I have only played a couple of hours and have stopped somewhere 
 in tien's landing which is at the start of the game where you venture into a ghost filled forrest.
 
  
  The general role playing style is stripped down, no character customization apart from choosing 
 fast, strong, balanced and magical, male and female. The leveling up is limited and so is the fighting 
 styles. It feels like this game should have been made before kotor. 
  
  Okay moving on to the combat system, well what can i say, stick to turn based sytstems of combat, 
 it would add more to the leveling and cutimization as well as removing the rubbish one they made. 
 If they are going to make it action as well as RPG, then they should make it well, its frustraiting 
 and unfulfilling, you just select a style and mash the left mouse button, and then power attack 
 and then dodge, rinse and repeat. This is to simple, but the problem is when you get ganged up 
 on, or you dont land the techniques and you end up getting killed, it makes the fighting seem pointless 
 and this is why i put the game down and will not play it again.
  
  The story, although i have only seen but a fraction of, seems to be very impressive, it runs along 
 ancient chinese mythology and some fantasy made up by the genious writers at bioware. I am a fan 
 of anything orient and martial arts, so its a shame i could not enjoy this further.
  
  The graphics and visuals are nice, but there is little interaction and the linier style of gameplay 
 means that you are forced to follow out a set path almost entirley with little or no freedom. The 
 good and the bad influences you make are pretty basic and not as enjoyable as in KOTOR, although 
 i havent seen them panning out to the end i can assume they are not very satisfying, as in the 
 end the game falls short in two many places.
  
  To conclude i would like to say this is a good RPG with huge potential and a seemingly good storyline 
 that has the ability to suck you in, but with the stripped down and linear feel and the frustrating 
 combat system, i personally cannot fully recommend this to anyone seeking an epic captivating adventuring 
 RPG.
  
  -Nick- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: owen_2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  This is my third review of Jade Empire and each time I am confronted by the fact that I can't make 
 up my mind about how good it is. 
  
  Jade's Empire claim to fame is it's distinct style which shows that quality that I find in other 
 remarkable games like Max Payne 2 or Bloodlines. Music, design, dialogues are closely integrated 
 and support each other. Those who like movies Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon will feel at home 
 and with this statement the game's developers might be charged with accusation of being copycats. 
 But then who isn't?
  
  One example of this integrated style is the way in which combat has it's own drumbeat oriented 
 Asian music once it commences and when the combat ends the hero closes the action with a sort of 
 ritual gesture while at the same time the music abruptly ends with a distinct short series of beats 
 on the drum.
  
  Another example is the way in which sound and music weave into each other. At some points there 
 are some sad and at the same time dangerous locations (a drowned village or graveyard) in which 
 the sound of the wind is weaved with a sad pan flute music theme. 
  
  Be assured that with this style there is also certainly substance. While the story is of course 
 not epic literature, it is not a plain story of good versus bad. There is a streak of betrayal 
 and double dealing and things are not always as the appear. The story makes at least at one point 
 a remarkable twist. In addition the story in general offers an explanation why people behave the 
 way they do so it is not like this guy is bad because he is.
  
  One interesting feature is that there are choices to be made by the hero between two ways of morality. 
 The one in which one helps its fellow beings regardless, but creates the problem that this makes 
 those in need depended, the other way is to make the beings strong so they can help themselves. 
 Alas while the theory is refreshing and tries to free itself of Christian morality with it's good 
 and bad option, in practice the game has problems to flesh out this way of thinking. In fact most 
 of the time it is just that: a plain good versus evil option.
  
  The weakest bit of the game lies in the combination of character development, equipment and combat. 
 
  While there are enough factors available to make the process complex in practice much of the options 
 are a given or only marginal influence performance. For example you can buy skills to increase 
 performance. This sounds nice but since you in general have enough money to buy them all, there 
 are no though decisions to make. Only once in the game the cost of available skills exceeds available 
 money in such a way that you can only buy one of three. In all other cases you just buy whatever 
 is offered and useful. This is next to the fact that but few skills actually greatly improve performance. 
 
  The same can be said about characteristics. There are three of and at each new level you can put 
 in some extra points. But the real effect is only noticeable over time as with each level a certain 
 percentage is increased, a factor which the player has marginal influence on.
  
  The meat of the game is the combat styles, which break down into four types; hand to hand, magic, 
 weapon and polymorph. But while this seems to offer a wide set of options, styles pose a problem 
 in that they are only made available gradually throughout the game and you have no clue in how 
 effective a style is both in power and against which creatures which means you have to do much 
 trial and error to find out. 
  
  A missed point is that there are no more effective options to choose from in the game and because 
 of this the replay value is lower than could have been. It is a question why the designers put 
 in a special difficulty level that only is available if you have gone through the game once. The 
 game hardly entice enough to do that.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tkgilli
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  This is one of the most enjoyable RPG's since KOTOR and KOTOR II. It has everything. Action, humor 
 and an engrossing story to tell.
  
  As far as action, I loved experimenting with the different styles. Combat was great. You had to 
 use the best syle to combat different types of enemies.
  
  I loved the characters in this game. I was laughing out loud at times at the comments of Whirlwind, 
 Henpecked Hou, and Kang. They were bawdy without crossing the line into vulgarity. It is so great 
 to play a game where there is an engrossing story and clever dialogue instead of using the f word 
 to substitute for good writing. Kudos.
  
  I thoroughly enjoyed the minigames with the flyers as well. I found them somewhat challenging, 
 but not so challenging I got frustrated.
  
  The graphics, while not the most cuting edge out there, were still lush and beautiful. This game 
 has it all. I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Lucifer
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  if you have nothing to do for a couple of days, then this game is going to keep occupied for a 
 while. it's got good variety of characters, different fighting styles and different attitudes! 
 almost no one around you tells you the truth, you get to choose to side with evil-and be really 
 bad guy and destroy anyone who stands in your way-or side with good guys-and be a hero, helping 
 people and such. what makes my head explode in this game is the too many conversations feature!!! 
 every person you meet on your journey just keep speeking, some you can skip, and some you can't. 
 so, those of you who isn't patient enough to listen, will miss the plot and find himself/herself 
 thrown in fights, or even fighting arenas!!
  the game also has many great features, which balances any other problem, like marvellous atmosphere, 
 great enemies and lots of kung fu action, is sure to make your day with this addictive game. the 
 pc version has some annoying glitches, crashes and bugs! but it is still amuzing to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blurrypixel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  
  What's to like:
  - Very challenging
  - Many styles of fighting (+ magic)
  - Good role play choices (good or evil)
  - Good graphics for an RPG
  - Good animations
  - 
 Good Ending
  - Great story
  - Great audio (voice overs and environmental)
  
  What you may not like:
  - Tough at times
  - Controls take some time to get used to
  - Unsatisfying 
 romance conclusion
  
  
  Story - Rich
  Strongest element of this game is its rich story that doesn't skip on the history details to support 
 the current events.
  
  If you have played some KOEI games (Romance of the three kingdoms or dynasty warriors) you will 
 find yourself trying to relate to it. 
  
  
  Game - I've always wanted to play a Martial Arts RPG and this one actually delivers. 
  
  First, 
 you choose the gender and the type of fighter you aspire to be. That already is very cool. You 
 will be able to shape your character as he/she levels up. The initial style mostly gives you combat 
 styles for free.
  
  During your journey, you will meet people that may, if you play your cards right, offer you to 
 teach you new styles. In the end, you get to possess most of the styles available. So don't sweat 
 too much about it.
  
  Styles are very important because not all styles are efficient against all types of enemies. So 
 it is not wise to spend all you skill points in 1 style until you have the other styles covered.
 
  
  The game is already challenging enough as it is with the proper styles used against the right enemies.
 
  
  Companions in this game is much like Never Winter Nights 1 where you can only have 1 follower in 
 your group. You don't directly control the follower but he or she will provide you different types 
 of bonuses (healing, more damage, etc.) and distraction while you mow down your enemies.
  
  Conclusion - a charming game
  The story is so rich and the possibilities are so wide that you 
 really feel *there* and re-living that chinese history and some of its mythologies.
  
  Immediately after finishing the game, I restarted a new game to see what I missed the first time 
 around, shows how good it was.
  
  Overall a 8.7/10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason4774
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 27, 2008 9:40 pm PT
Review:  This review is going to be a bit shorter than most of my previous reviews.
  
  First, what I liked...
  
  The story, which is wonderful, interwoven, and rich with atmosphere 
 and depth. Bioware had exceled in this in the past, and Jade is no exception to this.
  
  The characters! Probably the one area where Bioware games shine above all others. Their characters 
 remain interesting, engaging, sympathetic, relatable. Voice acting helps here, as well as the writers 
 ability to flesh out the characters as the story goes along.
  
  The graphics, which suit the story and add to the immersion.
  
  Now, what I didn't...
  
 
  The combat. It was kinda dull, one note, and not nearly as inspired as the story. Also, line of 
 sight issues galore pop up at all to critical moments. Since a good portion of the game is spent 
 fighting, it kind of detracts from the momentum of the story.
  
  The flow. While the story is great, how it flows, partially because of combat, and partially because 
 of uneven pacing, there doesn't seem to be the same sense of urgency that Bioware's best games 
 have delivered, that make you wnt to keep moving through the combat and interactions with anticipation 
 of what will happen next. Some portions just feel slow, and some portions just feel repetitive, 
 with similar combat scenerios popping up constantly.
  
  With all that covered, the one thing that really works in this game's favor is that common trait 
 to all Bioware games. It creates a world that is rich with lore, myth, wonder, and sometimes, even 
 true awe. Bioware's greatest strength in gaming, has been creating a world (or sometimes a universe) 
 that seemed genuinely imaginative, inspired, well conceived, and most importantly, without contradiction. 
 They cover all their bases, double check the plot, and make sure that the story and atmosphere 
 work smoothly together to create a universe that never snaps you out of their spell, where little 
 can be second guessed and nothing seems contradicted or left undone.
  
  Their games feel complete. And Jade, while not without it's faults, is a complete game, and provides 
 an experience that is just as fulfilling, if not quite as ambitious, as the best of their games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Captain_Griffen
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2007 5:21 am PT
Review:  This could quite easily have been a painful and shallow immitation of the culture it is trying 
 to portray, but instead we are given a powerful display of how to do an RPG, all in BioWare's distinctive 
 and well loved style. Think KoTOR, only with a combat system that is enjoyable.
  
  Some of the styles may seem to be pushing the boundaries of realism, but don't doubt that they 
 are based in real martial arts tradition. It is obvious that BioWare have carried out extensive 
 research, and the result is an authenticity that shines through, with just the right amount of 
 bending to achieve a brilliant game.
  
  The story is excellent, with some brilliant plot twists - predictable, but not expected. Nothing 
 pulled out of the ether, but instead a cunning plot worthy of a film. This is supported by a cast 
 of compelling characters, with some convincing voice acting (something apparently low in supply) .
 
  
  There is the usual mix of deep characters, and those that will have you falling around laughing, 
 but even those have a certain depth to them, and associated story arcs. Don't go neglecting your 
 party - they are one of the highlights of this game.
  
  For those of you who remember the abject boredom of the combat system in KoTOR, be happy to note 
 that the combat system here is an enjoyable rock-paper-scissor system in the form of power attack 
 - block - fast attack, with some furious dodging going on inbetween.
  
  Unfortunately, the enjoyment is somewhat marred by the imbalanced nature of the styles, which becomes 
 more noticable towards the end, where the difficulty suddenly picks up for the fights leading up 
 to the end.
  
  The game tries to get away from the stale good-bad system of KoTOR by using a hard-soft approach 
 (goju in Japanese) . At times it manages it spectacularly, but at others it seems their creativity 
 waned and they plumped for the old good-bad approach, which is a shame.
  
  The main quest is somewhat short, probably around 15 hours, so be sure to do the side quests, which 
 can be very enjoyable. However, rest assured that with various styles and character interaction 
 choices, there is plenty of replayability here.
  
  Immersive, enjoyable, interactive, and very memorable, though marred by a few moments of cliche, 
 it is an excellent game, and a must for any RPG fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  If I used word fabulous, I'd say this game were faboulous because I have used the words amazing, 
 incredible, brilliant and such too many times in my reviews.
  
  This game is fun and it is definetely worth playing. If you take time playing it like I do and 
 find out every aspect of it you will get into the game and live in its world, at least until you 
 realise you're hungry. 
  
  Very magical, not too linear and has quite a few surprises that nobody could expect even in the 
 storyline. The storyline is a worn out story of deception, conspiracy and so on blah blah blah 
 but even this is done so nicely that while you are preoccupied with the game's brilliance you don't 
 expect the gameplay to develop the way that it does. 
  
  I cannot give it anything below 9 as I have absolutely loved it, enjoyed it and it got me hooked 
 into this type of games. It does not deserve 10 because I feel it could be better, but bearing 
 in mind the games that come out, there isn''t really too much to improve on, hence the small difference 
 between 9 and 10. For instance, the flight itself could have really been better. It is interesting 
 as it reminds of the old skool arcade games but it just shows that no time was really invested 
 in this aspect of it. I was thinking of even giving it 9.5 but such small details really should 
 be improved. I know it costs money, but you gotta invest if you want to make legends. 
  
  
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 
 - Excellent and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing if you have nothing else to play
  6 - worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely 
 anything else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 as if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10) .
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life.
  
  Best Wishes to everyone,
  
  Zak 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevokenevo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 5:52 am PT
Review:  It could be just because im going back to this game a few years after it originally came out on 
 the xbox...
  The stroyline is great. It starts with direction and gradually develops characters in an appropriate 
 way. A large quantity of mysticism and speculation surrounds the opening 30 minutes of the game, 
 enough that makes you want to keep going.
  Character leveling up is standard/straightforward and allows character progression to be relatively 
 painless. This helps as keeps the fast pace of the game. 
  For the time the graphics were brilliant and do obviously seem dated now (2007) but not so much 
 that it puts you off playing the game.
  The only issues i have with this game are the controls. The best setup is for a control pad, thats 
 why it came out on the xbox first!
  The keyboard obviously has enough keys, but navigating the required ones during a battle can be 
 hit and miss occasionally. Remapping the controls yourself can aid this problem but not fully solve 
 it.
  The only other niggle i can think of that makes this game not quite an 8 is the lack of fluidity 
 to some aspects of movement/combat. Running is amazing. Still the best running and rolling and 
 strafing stances i have seen on any game to date! However its the transition between these actions 
 which slows the game and shows its age. 
  For instance, whilst running theres nothing more satisfying than doing a diving roll down some 
 stairs or into a room. This however is spoilt by the fact you have to tap W twice to do a roll. 
 Your character therefore has a momentary jerky pose just before rolling that spoils the fluid motion.
 
  
  There are other similar extremely minor issues similar to this one, however they are hardly worth 
 talking about. The game is fun, exciting and combat is satifying to the point of trying to get 
 every enemy to explode into a fountain of blood is like a challenge.
  If they ever make a second one, i'll get it without hesitation.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  'Bioware has been known for making some great games and just over a year ago, they released Jade 
 Empire, a brand new intellectual property, on the Xbox. A year later, Jade Empire has come to the 
 PC in the form of a special edition. The game offers up a great story that is full of twists and 
 turns, but you will feel the game is a bit too easy towards the end.
  
  'Jade Empire puts you in the shoes of a character that is training with her master to become an 
 expert fighter. The character is chosen by you in the very beginning of the game, and you have 
 several different males and females to choose from. Upon finishing your initial training in the 
 game, your village falls under attack by the Lotus Assassins. The Lotus Assassins work for the 
 Emperor of the land, and they are tasked with capturing your master, Master Li. From that point, 
 you set out to find the location of your master while trying to figure out why spirits continue 
 to come back from the dead to haunt and harass the living.
  
  'Story is focus number one when playing any Bioware game, and Jade Empire has this facet of the 
 game wrapped up quite nicely. The story takes you on an epic journey while never losing you at 
 any point. It is well paced and gives you some nice twists and turns along the way. But it is more 
 than that. The story immerses you, and brings you into the world. You never feel a sense of disinterest 
 or boredom, because there are always little items coming up that add to the main plot. Some of 
 this has to do with using a setting similar to some of the old Chinese dynasties that you have 
 read about in your history classes (I am sure everyone has had some history classes) .
  
  'Dialogue is another thing that separates Jade Empire from the competition. There are thousands 
 of lines of dialogue that help define your character and the relationships they will have with 
 either your teammates or NPC characters in general. All the dialogue is feels as if it could be 
 part of any top notch screenplay. The writing keeps the flow going, and it does so with consistency 
 and grace.
  
  'Combat mechanics are simplified quite a bit from earlier games from Bioware. No longer to you 
 have multiple battle options for your teammates. You just tell them to attack or defend. Also, 
 you only have one character traveling with you at a time, which is one less from the Knights of 
 the Old Republic series Once you engage a battle and have decided whether you compatriot will attack 
 or defend, you use your styles of combat to defeat the enemy. There are numerous styles that you 
 pick up during the game that help you fight the enemy. And each style will depend on how you have 
 leveled your enemy. You can focus on hand to hand styles like Legendary Strike, weapon skills like 
 Crimson Tears, or supernatural styles like Spirit Thief. Each skill for the most part is well balanced 
 and because there are so many that you can find, it lets you choose the styles that work best for 
 your style of play.
  
  'Jade Empire is a feast for the eyes on the PC. Allowing for higher resolutions and polished character 
 models, give you one of the nicest looking ports from the console world. Character models have 
 a lot of facial detail that emote what they are thinking. Several times, I was able to get a feel 
 for the characters state of mind just from watching their facial expressions or body language. 
 There is some repetitiveness with the crowd and NPC outfits, but it does not stick out. Backgrounds 
 are nice, but simple at times. Some of this may be due to the memory limitations of the original 
 Xbox, but I would have hoped for some upgraded background visuals. Each area does have a style 
 about it and give them a unique feel. 'Character voice overs really stand out and put you in the 
 game, just adding to the aforementioned immersion. The empathy and emotion shows the character 
 actors cared about what they were reading. They convey the buredon of the character that you are 
 playing and give meaning and purpose to your mission. This goes from your teammates all the way 
 down to the smallest NPC. Background music is solid, it disappears from time to time. With a game 
 of this caliber, I expect better from the music department. Ambient sounds are present and add 
 to the locations that you are in. You hear water dripping as you walk through caves, or tree leaves 
 bustling as you walk through a field. 'The game does so much right but has a couple of flaws that 
 keep it from greatness. First off is that the game become rather easy towards the end. Nearing 
 the completion of the game, you get a couple of powers that just give you the power to walk all 
 over you enemies. It is a problem that has been in other Bioware titles, and I hope it is something 
 they fix in their upcoming games. There were also some minor graphical glitches coming off of loading 
 a game or saving a game. And I would love to know what happened to the score in the middle of the 
 game. It just seemed to disappear or get too quiet.
  
  'Jade Empire for the PC, provides the gamer with a top notch story that is head and shoulders above 
 what is out there right now. You will keep wanting to play as the story unfolds. It grabs you and 
 keeps you going, but becoming too powerful at the end takes away from that to some degree. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 2:55 am PT
Review:  Thank you sales people for telling me to get this game! It was totally worth it!
  
  The game takes place in an Asian setting. You start off in Tien Landing and work your way through 
 mission after mission until you reach the Empire Palace. You are in search of your kidnapped master. 
 You don't only have a main story to follow, but you have hundreds of quests to complete in between. 
 Little things like, get a lady a hubby, open the dam and kill all the spirits. These quests do 
 make the game a little long, but it does not take away from the game. It actually adds a lot of 
 back story. You have a choice of characters that you can take through the game. Not only will you 
 have your own character, but you will have supporting characters that can either stand and fight, 
 or you can use their abilities to help you win the fight. Abilities like regenerating Chi. The 
 game is visually a feast for the eyes. The surroundings are magnificent and the people are well 
 designed and animated. Bad things about the game is the reading. OMW I hate games where i need 
 to read!! But that is part of the game and it was okay. I can bare it. :-)
  
  There is also some issues with the graphics where when you load you suddenly find yourself looking 
 at the floor. But those are easily fixed by reloading the last save point. This is an awesome game! 
 All that enjoy fighting, upgrades and mystical beasts should have this in their collection. I am 
 glad I do! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluwave
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  While, I do love the occasional medieval europe themed game, its really have been overdone of late. 
 What, Jade Empire brings is a great RPG in a ancient eastern environment. Its a action RPG thats 
 allows you take on the role of 1 of 7 different characters. Throughout most of the game you will 
 be aided by one of many companions, all which you will meet along the way in the game.
  
  The cool thing, is that you can choose which companions you want to use at a given time through 
 a control panel. The combat system is excellent as well, while not having many options in actual 
 gear, you have many choices in fighting styles, which is a refreshing twist on the genre and a 
 feature I enjoyed.
  
  The main story is top notch and has many twists. Some of it being predictable, but it usually is 
 in these games. The story is still much better than in most fantasy movies. What is also nice, 
 is that there are several side quests you can play during the main quest. Each quest (including 
 the main) has a option to follow the way of the open palm (good) or the closed fist (evil) which 
 is also a nice feature. Following each path will lead you to a different ending in the game as 
 well as different outcomes on the side quests.
  
  My only problem with this game, is that I occasionally had a graphic bug where I wouldn't be able 
 to see my character and the view turned overhead. Other than that small issue, the game was excellent 
 and I highly recommend it to anyone looking for a game set in a asian setting.
  
  PS: You'll find the game for about $30, a great bargain compared to other RPGs out right now. Go 
 get it! ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lostantix
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 3:11 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Jade Empire's gameplay does not differ from the action RPG's we have come to expect from 
 Bioware. Disappointing is actually how watered down the gameplay seems to be, especially considering 
 it's a Bioware RPG. The combat system is very simplistic and quite repetitive after a while. You 
 can fight in different styles, but even this novelty wears down after a while. You'll only find 
 yourself using 2-4 styles by the end of the game out of the many styles there are to choose from. 
 The character development was a big flop as well. As I said before, I expected more from a Bioware 
 RPG. Instead, you must put points in one of three attributes: Body, Focus, or Mind. It is even 
 more disappointing to find out though, that these attributes are nothing special and focusing on 
 one does not give you specialties and only serves to make your character weaker. The idea of a 
 balanced character is fine (and Im not saying it doesnt work for Jade Empire) , but being a BIoware 
 RPG, it was just too simple for my tastes. You can also put skill points towards the mastering 
 of a certain style. These just boost the effectiveness of your attacks. Like most Bioware RPGs, 
 you also have alignment. The interesting thing is that you seem to be rewarded more for being Good, 
 over Evil. Maybe its just me, but getting a few hundred XP and 1000 Silver sounds better than 
 a few XP and a small amount of Silver. The story is the high point of this game. The story is just 
 fantastic. It makes all the flaws of the game seem like nothing. The only problem I had with the 
 story was how obvious they made the twists right before they happen (like a change in the tone 
 of a characters voice to indicate theyre about to do something evil) . I felt as if the game was 
 just the right length, meaning it didnt feel like it dragged on or was too short. Your accompanying 
 NPCs are highlights of the game as well. Their personalities are well done, and you hate half 
 of them as much as you like the other half (at least thats how I felt. Who else didnt like the 
 Chubby Bastard or The Bald  I loved the setting, as Asian culture 
 really fascinates me. You dont really have an inventory, which is quite strange for an RPG. The 
 only things you can sell are Gems which can be found in excess throughout the game. Of course there 
 are weapons and a couple of other things you can acquire, but I consider these plot items or power-ups. 
 They arent stuff you can move around, drop or sell.
  
  Graphics &amp; Sound: I personally dont mind how your character can clip through drone people 
 who are characters (that you cannot interact with) placed in the cities or town just for ambiance. 
 But, some people may find this a nuisance. Id rather just go through them, than have to go around. 
 The graphics are very well done, and the environments are really detailed. No gripes here. I have 
 the same opinion with the sound, especially considering the music. Its simply wonderful.
  
  Replay Value: After beating the game, Jade Empire, gives you to opportunity to go through the 
 game on master difficulty. You can also try to find the few mini-games you might have missed. Or 
 you can try the alternative alignment path. Unfortunately, there is not much replay value for Jade 
 Empire, and I must credit this towards the lack of complex character development.
  
  Overall, Jade Empire is a good starter RPG. Its a good game for those who have yet to try RPGs 
 and want to know the general experience and atmosphere first. For RPG gamers, Jade Empire still 
 isnt a game you should pass up. It might fall short of a few of your expectations, but overall 
 its a solid RPG which will provide many hours of fun.
  
  Note: I totally preferred the Princess over Dawn Star. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastpunk
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  My confidence in Bioware was a bit shaken after playing Neverwinter Nights. I expected more from 
 the main campaign but they failed to deliver "the goods". The good thing is I picked up Jade Empire 
 and despite some doubtful initial impressions it restored some of my faith in Bioware. Why? Well, 
 Jade Empire manages to tell a really good story (possibly Bioware's best) and also manages to transmit 
 that special feeling chinese wuxia movies have (like Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon or Hero) .
  
  I will not go into much detail about the story but I will say that it has all the usual Bioware 
 traits (like major plot twists and romances) . It all comes down to your character questing for 
 more information about his past and reestablishing the great balance of life (you know, life-death, 
 ying-yang, good-evil, divine-human) ; there's a lot of soul traffic going on in this game so it's 
 pretty complicated. That should be enough info without giving away too much. Bioware also managed 
 to create a nice set of NPCs to accompany you. Each of them has his/her own, unique personality 
 and you are bound to find one that you like. The NPCs are certainly one of the game's strong points. 
 About the setting: some will like it, some will not. I personally like chinese culture so for me 
 it was fascinating. It's all about preferences here, not much else to be said.
  
  Of course, a good story is told mainly through dialogs and Jade Empire manages to deliver that 
 too. Those who have played KotOR will feel right at home with the dialog system... and those who 
 didn't will become comfortable with it pretty soon because it's accessible and thanks to the good 
 voice acting, also easy to get into.
  
  I wanted to put the ruleset into the flaws category but decided against it since it's friendly 
 for newcomers. Bioware employed a very simple rule system that lets you put points into your attributes 
 (body, mind and spirit) and into your fighting styles (you start off with a few but learn many 
 more along the way) at every level up. Also, the game doesn't have an inventory system, just some 
 slots where you put gems that enhance your powers. This might be off-putting for a role-playing 
 gamer but it makes Jade Empire a good starting point for those who are new to the genre.
  
  Now for the flaws: the game is very linear. Very linear! You don't have much of a choice on how 
 to play your character: you are either good or bad, just like in KotOR. You will have a few morally 
 difficult situation but they are rare. Simply put, Jade Empire isn't too solid on role-playing. 
 Also, the environments feel a bit cumbersome in some places and are generally linear. The good 
 thing is they actually look great. I'd also like to mention combat: it's real-time but it doesn't 
 feel particularly satisfying. Still, the many styles of combat sort of redeem it because certain 
 styles will not apply to certain enemies, requiring you to change the approach a bit. It's nothing 
 special and it would have been even better with a little tweaking (specially regarding difficulty) 
 but this will do too.
  
  So overall, Jade Empire offers you a nice escape from your usual gaming routines: if you like hardcore 
 action then here's a little depth and story, if you like heavy stat-based, turn-based games here's 
 something more simple and relaxing. It's particularly friendly for casual gamers and gamers who 
 are looking to begin playing RPGs. It also delivers a good story and a great setting so I'd advise 
 you to give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lauri14
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 29, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Foreword: I know it may be a bit late to write this review, as Jade Empire already has a few of 
 years on it's back, but maybe there are a couple of curious gamers out there who want to try out 
 the Special Edition (2007) and don't know what to expect.
  This review definitely recommends Jade Empire Special Edition and tries to explain why.
  
  
 No bs +/- :
  + Memorable characters, well made. Companions are interesting and add replay value.
  + Everyone 
 has a voice, great acting. Fight-sounds are flawless.
  + Beautiful graphics, that don't take much time to load.
  + Alignment system, that adds replay 
 value. Interesting view on good and evil.
  + Combat is simple. Great movements and different martial-arts, but only movement keys and mouse 
 clicks for the player.
  + Great story! Still great when beating the game the second or third time.
  
  - Leveling up 
 might as well not be there.
  - Otherwise quite scarce character-customization options.
  - Short. More side-quests would not have hurt, the game's 7 chapters come to an end damn quickly.
 
  
  Special Edition features include: character - Monk Zeng; greater resolutions; new effects and better 
 textures; iron palm and viper martial styles; rhino demons;
  improved AI; Jade Master difficulty; new map interface; keyboard- and hot-key support.
  
  At 
 the beginning you have a choice of premade characters or premade characters with a different name 
 and slight customizations:
  The male playable characters are Furious Ming (fast, tattooed) , Lu the Prodigy (balanced, stocky) , 
 Monk Zeng (magic, dressed as a Buddhist monk) , and Tiger Shen (strong, heavy-set) .
  The female characters are Radiant Jen Zi (fast, diminutive) , Scholar Ling (magic, contemplative) , 
 and Wu the Lotus Blossom (balanced, wide-eyed) .
  (I chose Wu the for the female character, because she's damn sexy and Ming for male, because I 
 needed someone evil-looking.)
  Which reminds me - sexiness is wide-spread in the Jade Empire.
  
  The game starts in the village 
 of Two Rivers, where you, a student, learn martial arts under Master Li. One day the village is 
 attacked by
  pirates, Master Li reveals himself to be a lot more than a martial arts master in a small fishing 
 village. The player is introduced to the main problem:
  souls cannot enter the underworld, the natural order of things is broken and must be fixed. Soon 
 after that the village is destroyed, Master Li kidnapped and the player must
  take off to meet his/her destiny. After about 10 (for first-timers) hours of adventuring, questing 
 and a pleasant amount of arena battles, the player will infiltrate an organisation of assasins 
 and will confront the evil emperor Sun Hai, betrayal soon follows...
  
  The player can choose to be male or female. Gender gives the game a bit of replay value, since 
 the romance options are different: as a woman
  you can hook up with either a male rogue, one female or two females, playing as a male character 
 only allows you to hook up with one female or the male rogue.
  I guess it's a really gay friendly game, not really something you see often.
  The party following 
 you will get more and more colorful towards the endgame, all party members may not have a special 
 quest-like thing for you, but can then either be romanced
  or can offer you some humorous tales of themselves. (Especially the shaved bear )
  
  Jade Empire 
 presents a somewhat new angle to the alignment system, as the player can follow either the way 
 of the closed fist (mostly evil, but not necessarily) or
  the way of the open palm (good) . A corpulent person in the beginning of the game will be happy 
 to explain these philosophies in depth to the player:
  basically the way of the closed fist maintains, that strength is the greatest virtue and the weak 
 should fend for themselves or die, the way of the open palm
  says, that compassion should be shown to the weak, that the weak should be helped, to do good and 
 teach them to help themselves next time...
  
  //Personal ramblings:
  (This brings to mind Kreia, an old woman from KOTOR2, who explains that the charity and good-doing 
 may always not be the right thing and in the end all
  the good deed has done is wrought more pain, nevertheless this way of thinking won't really manifest 
 in Jade Empire and if you do the good thing, it's always
  the right thing to do.)
  //
  
  The graphics are preprocessed and look beautiful, nothing movie-like, but gorgeous nonetheless. 
 The loading screens, or bars,
  are frequent, but easily tolerated if you are in posession of at least a mediocre PC.
  
  The 
 game is pretty open ended, sadly the big decisions feel kind of all piled up in the endgame, with 
 the small acts of good or evil you did before having little effect on anything. With almost every 
 quest, there's an evil way and a good way, lots of freedom.
  
  The story is great. I think most of the players who play it once, play it twice or even a third 
 time, maybe just to check out a Special Edition feature: the Jade Master
  difficulty level, which is... difficult, the 300% damage inflicted by enemies and the 25% damage 
 inflicted by you should give you a clue..
  I only tried master and jade master difficulty levels, the first being easy enough for anyone and 
 the second one not so recommended for the casual player,
  the other modes - discover them yourself.
  
  The game is pretty open ended, sadly the big decisions 
 feel kind of all piled up in the endgame, with the small acts of good or evil you did before having 
 little effect on anything. With almost every quest, there's an evil way and a good way, lots of 
 freedom. I can't say it's really very negative or game-ruining.
  
  Now the (really) negative things about this game.
  
  This game is criminally short. There are 
 two small towns and one big city in the game, one becomes unavailable shorty after the beginning. 
 For the size in gigabytes I would have hoped for at least 60 hours of game-play the first time. 
 Sadly 23 hours was the maximum I could
  squeeze out from this pretty little rock and I did 99% of the things possible without using any 
 guides...
  
  The player character ends the game with level 23 or less, unless grinding at some infinite spawn 
 points, but that is besides the point, the point is - the levels you gain are pointless. Each level 
 grants you 3 stat points (mind/body/spirit) . One of your stats will be well over 100 and the other 
 two at about 50-70,
  if you decide to specialize in one of them. The only visible equipment a player can find are weapons, 
 which are useless to all except one - a blunderbuss you get in mid-game.
  Other usable equipment include small gems, that you can put in your special amulet, the gems offer 
 bonuses ranging from minor to fight-winning effects.
  So basically what you can choose about you character is: alignment, sex and weapon, the three stats 
 you can change and the persuasion skills affected by them mean little, as a persuasion check never 
 disallows the player to start (or complete) any quest. Or make any changes to the outcome of the 
 game for that matter..
  
  Combat system comments:
  A thing much whined about in Jade Empire, yes, it is simplistic, you use normal attacks to shred 
 and an occasional power attack to break blocks. I agree, that it's not as challenging as for example 
 - the Jedi Knight games, but frankly, it really doesn't matter in an RPG. I get my kick from doing 
 stuff and seeing the
  consequences, not spending hundreds of hours and quick-saves to beat one single boss. I get my 
 fingers trained in a good online FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talus057
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 25, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  This game blew my mind. I always put off playing it because I didn't think it was as good as it 
 really was. Don't make that mistake! If you haven't played this yet then I highly suggest you get 
 your hands on a copy.
  
  They took the engine from KotoR 1 and 2 and put some shiny new graphics on it. They seemed to have 
 redone all the code, one would think, because this game runs like liquid gold. I haven't seen a 
 game run this nicely in a very long time and it serves as a beacon to all you others out there 
 who say it's the PC power and not the code. You were wrong! Its the game programming that determines 
 the power behind the game itself, not how much RAM you have -- though more RAM certainly wouldn't 
 hurt (I have a gig, personally) . Even though it loads so quickly, the graphics are absolutely astounding! 
 I'm not saying it's a brooding Balor Demon, like Gothic or TES, but the graphics are definitely 
 in an excellent catagory.
  
  There are quite a few characters to start off at. You have choices to make in the dialogue throughout 
 the game that change the course of the game as well as how other characters, both friendly and 
 otherwise, interact with you. You will play this game 3 times at least in order to see all there 
 is to see. Then you will start playing again just because it's so fun to play.
  
  I really cant say enough good about this game. Please, go pick it up. I have a strong feeling that 
 this engine Bioware is using was probably meant for KotoR2 before they gave Bioware the boot for 
 taking too long . Geez, I bet they feel stupid for doing that now!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saint_spyro
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 24, 2007 9:54 am PT
Review:  Overall this is a brilliant game. Perhaps I am a Bioware fan. Compared to its previous works such 
 as KOTOR and KOTOR2, JE definitely has improved its gameplay and interface. Nonetheless, there 
 is still alittle glitches here and there, for example you can't change the stance when you are 
 travelling because when you entered combat, the stance will be the last stance you used when you 
 were in combat.
  
  Character grooming is also not very in depth. Kind of makes me feel that Bioware simply rushed 
 out this game to satisfy the urge of D&amp; D gamers. Compared to KOTOR or KOTOR2, or even NWN series, 
 I feel that there is a lack of progress for the NPC. Seriously I was expecting a little more about 
 exploring the backgrounds or seeing the influence of me on my followers. But unfortunately it is 
 not in the game. I guess the best part to the game is the fast loading time and the improved movie 
 clips as well as the graphics between major fights or key events. Hopefully, the next game that 
 Bioware make can have more in depth storyline and let us influence our followers more. If it can 
 be open ended, I guess that will definitely add to the replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oozubek_TR
Rating: 5.1
Date: Jul 18, 2007 1:22 am PT
Review:  If a proper Hack &amp; Slash is a must for you to enjoy a RPG then leave this piece on the shelf 
 and restart Diablo 2 again as this piece of game has one of the worst combat systems.
  
  the lovely graphics and story only keeps you playing for another 2-3 hours and then you start to 
 feel that you are losing time with beating the crappy creatures, which insults your IQ and combat 
 abilities.
  
  ah NPC's!! they die on the first occasion and leave you alone to deal with all the other monsters.. 
 This game is a solo game where you have some karate action.. that's it.
  
  I do not want to write more and spend more time on this game.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Idiom
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 15, 2007 5:10 am PT
Review:  The Jade Empire is a fairly shallow action adventure with somewhat hack 'n slash combat mechanics. 
 The plot is just enough to pull you though the game but its thin and you won't feel at all compelled 
 to replay the game once finished.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are pretty average DX9, most of the environments are well done but theres 
 nothing that stands out, it all works fine but its just plain. you get to choose a character at 
 the beginning of the game and your stuck with the appearance of that character for the whole game, 
 no different armour or clothes like you would expect in a RPG so make sure you pick a character 
 you like the look of.
  
  Gameplay: As mentioned above the most important difference between the characters you can choose 
 from is purely asthetic, you can take any character and play any style without any difference. 
 This definitely isn't an RPG, there is no inventory and combat is rather plain. The combat consists 
 of fantastical martial arts styles of which there is a large variety, you only really get enough 
 experiance points to specialize in about 4 though. The styles come in a few varieties, they can 
 be either open Palm or Closed Fist i. e. good or Evil and they can be offensive or defensive, use 
 a weapon, magic or just your fists. They can also emphasize one of your stats i. e. chi (mana) strength, 
 speed, and focus. Each style works in the same way, there is a standard attack, a power attack 
 and a chi enhanced attack which just uses a small amount of chi with each hit and causes a little 
 extra damage, you can use your focus ability which is basically a bullet time effect. plus you 
 can block and also the are combos i. e. if you complete a power attack in a defensive style you 
 have a certain amount of time to complete a power attack in a corresponding offensive style for 
 a special effect and a guaranteed power-up drop if your attack kills. For the most part it just 
 works out as button bashing the standard attack though.
  
  Sound: The voice acting in Jade Empire is pretty good and there is bucket loads of it, you have 
 upto about 9 companions thoughout the game and each of them as different things to say in each 
 of the games quests although you can only have one companion with you at a time.
  
  Conclusion: the game promises a lot, the idea of a martial arts based action adventure with dozens 
 of combat styles sounds really attractive, it just hasn't been pulled off. The combat is too plain 
 and the plot too thin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadibm
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 15, 2007 4:22 am PT
Review:  The Story is OK, though the discussions and talks makes you feel as if you spend more time reading 
 then actually playing the game
  
  The fights are almost too easy and too much alike even with the top villains
  It took me around 
 9 Hrs the first time and less then 3 the second time completing every quest in the game
  
  The followers are not that much helpful and they are too many for too little of help -Not that 
 you need their help anyway-
  
  Audio effects are typical and not innovative, though the graphics and the environments are not 
 bad at all
  
  In total the game is just Ok to pass the time considering that you can actually choose your actions 
 in the game and try out couple of the Hero characters when choosing at the beginning ,but there 
 are no emotions while playing whatsoever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naval
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 10, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Jade empire is by all means a very enjoyable RPG. It's biggest problem lies in it's simplistic 
 combat which is just a repeat a few button. Even If , combat is not a big par of an RPG but the 
 here the combat becomes frustrating enough to take out much fun from the game. What I felt while 
 playing the game was that bioware tried to create a different combat system but they also didn't 
 want to put much emphasis on combat, which resulted in a half baked system which was neither here 
 nor there
  Ignoring the combat, the rest of the game was quite enjoyable - good caharacters, great story, 
 nice roleplaying etc ... basically what you want from a RPG.
  Hopefully bioware removes the problems present with this game and present us with the perfect game 
 in the form of Dragon Age :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 10, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Bioware has come a long way since their first RPG Baldur's Gate was released back in the late 90s. 
 Some of their work has been exceptional since (Knights of the Old Republic) , and some of it... 
 not so much (Neverwinter Nights' campaign) . Jade Empire is caught in the middle.
  
  Jade Empire takes place in a setting that is clearly inspired by Asian mythology, mostly Chinese 
 mythology. You are a (unsurprisingly) special child, who has been training under a Master known 
 only as Li for all twenty years of his or her life. After you become aware of your somewhat interesting 
 heritage, things are set in motion that culminate in an epic adventure. How cliche. Regardless, 
 the story in Jade Empire is told very well, and takes a few twists and turns along the way. You 
 also get to choose what your character says most of the time like in past Bioware releases. You 
 don't always get a choice, and often your dialog choices do not amount to anything, but it's still 
 a nice feature.
  
  Jade Empire is very different from Bioware's past work. Instead of utilizing a semi-turn based 
 battle system, Jade Empire is entirely real time. You can select from a variety of fighting styles 
 (you only start out with one) , and then you attack enemies by moving up to enemies and whacking 
 them repeatedly, it's simple enough. Since Jade Empire is an RPG, you also have to keep your stats 
 in mind. Leveling is done the same way it is done in most Western RPGs, once you get enough experience 
 you put some points into stats and skills. In Jade Empire you also don't have to worry about upgrading 
 equipment. If you want better weapons, put more points into your favorite fighting styles, because 
 that's the only equipment upgrade you get. There is a gem system that allows you to add some bonuses 
 to some base stats, but nothing significant.
  
  Graphically, Jade Empire is a fairly beautiful game. There is a great host of wondrous environments, 
 though they are very linear. Some of the minor character models are poorly done, but the important 
 characters are excellent. Most enemies are also very well designed with fluid animations.
  
  The audio is exceptional. The voice work is mostly top of the line (with the occasional bad 
 extra) . The music is fairly popular among the fans, composed by Jack Wall (Who also composed the 
 award winning Myst III: Exile and Myst IV: Revelation scores) it's a symphonic score that catches 
 the Chinese Mythology settling very well.
  
  Jade Empire is a bit simplistic, and seems to cater to people looking for fast action. There's 
 no real tactical combat, and you don't really need to use the currency for anything (In fact, I 
 never used my Silver at all) since there's no armor or weapons to upgrade. It's an RPG that places 
 emphasis on fast paced action and story telling, and it both excels and suffers because of this. 
 I still recommend it to any RPG fan to try out for themselves, it's not as exceptional as Bioware's 
 earlier releases, but it's still worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ckay2005
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 23, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  If you are looking for a wonderful change of pace and a game that will hold your attention for 
 more than 2 hours then this one will do well. It appears the software writers actually cared if 
 after 2 hours of game play there was still some story line and new stuff too do. The newest game 
 seem to be good for about 2 hours then its all a repeat. Maybe the only reason I rate is so high 
 is the last several months of games have been a total bogg of hurry up and get it out nitemares. 
 But this one was steady with no probelms. Enjoy!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_being
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 22, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Originally released for the Xbox in 2005, Jade Empire finally, after two years, makes its way to 
 the PC, and the waiting was worth it. Though a bit out of date, the game is still able to produce 
 great thrills, a wide cast of characters and a memorable storyline that keeps getting better and 
 better as the game moves on.
  
  Jade Empire is an RPG based in an oriental fantasy world, where spirits, gods and demons rule the 
 fates of men. One promising martial arts student is sent by his master to rediscover himself and 
 learn about his destiny. This seemingly simple quest quickly turns into a mission of save the entire 
 empire for a power crazed tyrant.
  The main story is maybe a bit of a clich&eacute;, but the game storyline will take some major twists 
 and turn before the end, and there are much, much more sub-stories to uncover and solve.
  Along the game the main character will be joined by what the game refers to as followers. Each 
 of these followers has a unique ability that can help the player along the way. You can only have 
 one follower traveling with you at the time, but you can pretty much switch them on the fly, while 
 not engaged in combat.
  Another cool feature is the alignment meter which monitors your characters inclement towards 
 one of two philosophies: the One palm philosophy teaches towards harmony with all living things 
 (the good philosophy) , while the Closed fist philosophy encourages towards self empowerment 
 (the bad philosophy) .
  
  I mentioned before the main problem of the game- the graphics. For a game that was first released 
 in 2005, the graphics are not up to date with a lot of 2007 games, and there are a few visual bugs 
 here and there, like walking through objects and the occasional missing floor and walls. The most 
 annoying glitch happens usually after you enter a new area in the game- the camera suddenly falls 
 down and gives you a thorough look of the floor, and nothing else. This glitch is rare and can 
 be easily fixed by reloading a previously saved game; a bit of a nuisance, but nothing too major.
 
  Apart from said setbacks, the graphics of the game are quite decent, making for an enjoyable 
 journey through a verity of beautiful and authentic environments.
  
  The best quality about Jade Empire is its replay value. Every quest and side-quest in the game 
 can be solved in a verity of ways, depending on the alignment of the main character and how much 
 work is the player willing to put into said quest. Adding the different rewards, items, followers, 
 weapons and fighting styles the player can collect throughout the game, you are looking at a solid 
 20 hours (at least) of gameplay.
  
  All in all, Jade Empire provides the player with a worthwhile experience. Even those who do not 
 usually play RPGs will probably enjoy this game for its compelling story and characters complemented 
 with some decent visuals and great gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenji_02
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 20, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Quick review
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  This game was extremely well programed and constructed. The voice acting will draw you into this 
 game and make you really feel connected with it's characters. The plot is ever-changing but still 
 straight forward. You never know what will happen next really!
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Game play quick 
 summery
  The mini-game is an old arcade style flying game. So that's a fun thing between missions. The next 
 thing on game play I'
  d say is amazing is the many different combat styles. So you can really select HOW you wish to 
 fight. Also, through out the world you will find scrolls with tidbits of the back story and side 
 story's that you will just love to read!
  
  Graphics quick summery
  they could of given you more option when it came to how your character looks, but that doesn't 
 really matter. The facial expressions and crisp environments will make you squee. The graphics 
 are a little dated in comparison to modern games for the pc (it's not oblivion) but it's very pretty!
 
  
  Sound quick summery
  the voice acting is the best part of this game, it all sounds so wonderful! You can really tell 
 the emotions of the actors, how they really feel as the characters they play. I have yet to find 
 a character who has a sloppy voice over.
  
  Value
  you should by this. Even for 30 bucks it's a very fun game. I've spent more money on games that 
 have entertained me far less, for the price. This is a god-send! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TenchuRocks
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Jade Empire is very detailed about the Ancient Chinese World if all of the Myths and ledgends were 
 true. You start out as student at Two Rivers school. You get to pick between a staff and a sword. After 
 you pick you must fight bandits and Ghosts. your master leads you into a cave underneath the school 
 where you meet a blue spirit who tells you that you are the last spirit monk. so when you return 
 a close friend is missing. your Friend has been kidnapped by a corrupted student. So you search for 
 them in the swamp and youll have to play it to figure out the rest.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexyfunkmaster
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 19, 2007 1:04 pm PT
Review:  ima keep this short (like the game) . the game is fun with a good story and a like 2 and a half 
 sec lerrning curve. but its short i beat it on jade master in 15 hours took me 3 days sence i got 
 the game. also you dont have that much freedom over the quest like kotor. and this version is just 
 a bit glichy unlike the x boooox verson (loved it on x boooooox) . also whats the point of money 
 if every thing you need to beat this dissapointingly easy game is given to you (over the couse of 
 the game i dident spend a dime exepedt in a quest at the beging) now its fun and sir roderic von 
 fanderbottem the amazing basterd ( thats his name) is the coolest peson ever so it gets a 8.5 on 
 my scale not to grate not to bad its A OK!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knux15
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 23, 2007 5:54 am PT
Review:  Gameplay was a major factor for me, even though I've only played about half way through it still 
 has a nice interface, clean and crisp gameplay, and an intriguing story of how a lone student can 
 defeat the evil empire and reclaim her people before spirits go mad.
  
  Usually I write reviews that detail the entirety of detail in the game but it is really hard to 
 explain all of the mechanics without having the person play for themselves. It does use a modified 
 version of the KOTOR game engine that was used by Lucas Arts, beautiful cut scenes that really 
 bring FMV back into games again and some classic arcade style minigames for legacy sake.
  
  Voice acting was great, sound is beautiful and unlike the Screenshots on Gamespot, the graphics 
 are pretty good. And yes to answer the question, there is indeed mist and realistic shadow shaders 
 in this version. Game is awesome and is great with updates on Steam...
  
  ***UPDATE***
  
  Finished playing the game and it does lack in the ending. It is not truly like any other RPG's 
 and is relatively short. Found out that from the time I wrote this review to the end of the game, 
 I only had ONE hour left! That was it. Totaly gameplay time was 16 hours but does have a DARK storyline 
 and a few bonuses for after you beat the game. Has a replay value of like maybe 3 plays total.
 
  
  Original Rating: 8.7 New Rating: 8:5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgridlock
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 3, 2007 1:31 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8/10
  Ive always loved Biowares games, and was more than a little disappointed when I heard that Jade 
 Empire would be an XBox exclusive. How would I get to play this intriguing game? No matter, turns 
 out that my XBox-owning friend bought a copy and provided me with appropriate means to play this 
 thing to death. To death, I tell you. Others may not have been so fortunate, which is why a PC 
 version is so welcome. Better late than never. It also gives me an excuse to play it through for 
 the nth time. Anyway, Jade Empire is a fantastic action-RPG set in magical ancient China, and I 
 must say that the real strong points of the game are the setting, the story and the heaps of thoughtfully-scripted 
 dialogue. Its probably one of the best-written games Ive ever played, with a well-implemented 
 morality slider that actually works as you guide your character through a suitably twisty plot. 
 Its a bit more action-orientated that previous Bioware outings, requiring quick thinking and quick 
 fingers. The combat is fun and slick, but does get a bit dull, even with a multitude of styles 
 to spice things up. As far as the XBox to PC conversion goes, for the most part its done very 
 well. There are a few features that scream console, but nothing that poses any sort of problem. 
 The mouse and keyboard control scheme is nicely thought out, and finally: we have a console conversion 
 of an action game that doesnt require three hands to play. There are also a couple of additions 
 such as extra items and styles, and a whole new Jade Master mode for those who find the main game 
 a touch too easy (like me) .
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  Its a gorgeous game, very colourful with great attention to detail and plenty of soft lighting 
 to bring out that magical Eastern touch. Lush, magical, definite eye candy. But at its core, Jade 
 Empire is three years old. And it does show. There are a few more rough edges than contemporary 
 PC releases, a few more blocky models and a few more flat textures.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  The voice work on this game is, for the most part, beyond superb. Every line of dialogue has a 
 vocal, and none of it had me skipping through it. The characters brought a smile to my face on 
 multiple occasions, especially a great turn by comedy master John Cleese as a pompous European 
 adventurer. The soundtrack is not surprisingly Eastern themed and goes well with the visuals; never 
 overstated but fitting in nicely.
  
  Value: 8/10
  The main storyline is just about long enough and theres enough side-quests to keep you going for 
 a while on the first couple of playthroughs, and theres always the choice to play as an Open Palm 
 (goody) or Closed Fist (baddy) . But after waiting so long for a PC port, I would have liked more 
 extra content than the few bits and pieces we did get.
  
  Tilt: 9/10
  Superb.
  
  Pros:
  Marvellously well scripted action-RPG, with great story, setting and dialogue and decent 
 doses of humour, drama and romance (including tasteful same-sex romances, something that should 
 have been in games like this a long time ago) .
  
  Cons:
  Theres not a great deal that cant be found in the original XBox release, which is a shame considering 
 PC owners have had to wait a number of years for the conversion. Also the combat can be a bit repetitive 
 and dull, especially when fighting endless waves of foes.
  
  Conclusion:
  If youve already had your fill of the XBox version, theres little here to justify plonking down 
 your cash unless you are a particularly huge fan. But for everyone else: most highly recommended. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vecuf
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 31, 2007 6:30 am PT
Review:  I was initially impressed by the story and the richness of Jade Empire world. The game abounds 
 in characters and characters interactions. You can talk with a lot of interesting enough peoples 
 because the game has a huge amount of spoken dialogs, pity that all these dialogs are in a very 
 few occasions memorable, although the voice acting is just simply great. The Jade Empire world 
 is also beautiful enough, despite some very ugly graphical issues like the very old textures. The 
 story of the game is interesting enough until a certain point (until the arena fights) , after that, 
 it doesn't manage to keep the player's interest alive. It is really a bad thing that a good story 
 is diluted almost in every game in order to reach 20 or 40 hours of playing time. I would rather 
 prefer a game with 10 - 15 hours of quality playing time, like TLJ Dreamfall for example.
  
  The fight system in Jade Empire is looking great, although it doesn't offer any kind of challenge. 
 It is the same dull method of diluting the playing time.
  
  Anyway, this a good game and it probably worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 31, 2007 6:27 am PT
Review:  Jade Empire is considerably less ambitious than Biowares previous efforts. The game lacks a good 
 character development system, its presentation is badly outdated, and exploration is virtually 
 nonexistent. Furthermore, interaction with the games NPCs is disappointingly formulaic  so much 
 so that if you didnt know that Bioware developed it, you could easily tell after five minutes 
 of playing it. Likewise, the games morality system doesnt provide much interesting choice beyond 
 the nice response, mean response formula that has been in Bioware games for almost a decade.
 
  
  Yet despite these major shortcomings, Jade Empire is worth your time if have any interest in RPGs 
 or the China-esque setting. None of the individual elements of the game stand out as excellent, 
 but the package is far better than the sum of the parts. The most important parts are done well. 
 The fighting system is very cinematic and enjoyable, albeit imperfect, and you wont find anything 
 else remotely like it on the PC. The dialog is well-written and it manages to capture the feel 
 of a good Hong Kong film without coming across as cheesy or corny. Most of all, the new setting 
 is very well fleshed out, and its a great change of pace from the traditional fantasy material 
 that dominates the RPG market.
  
  Its impossible to review this game without talking about Biowares other great games, especially 
 Knights of the Old Republic. Jade Empire borrows heavily from those other games, often to a fault. 
 It basically boils down to a cross between Kotor and Kung Fu. At its heart, it is a dialog-heavy 
 beat-em-up. It has the tried-and-true patterns of previous Bioware titles, but with a healthy dose 
 of pop culture Chinese lore.
  
  Jade Empire was built for a nearly six year old piece of hardware using the same engine as Knights 
 of the Old Republic, and it shows. The game areas are small and mostly bare, with few items to 
 interact with and little exploration to do. The games look has not aged well, especially considering 
 all of the superb-looking games that have come out in the past few years. Low polygon counts dominate 
 every setting, and this problem sticks out especially during conversations. Characters are quite 
 blocky and their hands and figures look like concrete blobs. The lighting is very well done, but 
 it lacks some of the better features available today, like HDR. Textures are flat and there is 
 no in-game anti-aliasing available either.
  
  The saving grace for Jade Empires appearance is that the art direction is excellent, so much that 
 the game is still moderately pleasing to the eye, despite its outdated look. The style matches 
 the setting perfectly, and every area has at least one impressive set piece. The highlight of the 
 games presentation is the combat, which is full of beautiful and convincing motion-captured animations. 
 Your character is endowed with a huge library of moves and styles, all of which are complemented 
 by dazzling spells, punches, turns, wind-ups, and poses. The game is similar to the Prince of Persia 
 games, where the animations are so much fun to watch that making your character perform lots of 
 cool moves on the screen is part of the fun.
  
  Impressive-looking combat is important, because it is a substantial part of the game. When you 
 are not clicking through huge dialog trees, you are usually fighting somebody. There is a large 
 variety of styles in the game, but the role playing system favors using just three or four most 
 of the time. Each style has a basic attack and a very slow power attack which you can use to break 
 a block. The game allows for a wide range of tactics, but you will probably find one or two to 
 favor.
  
  Combat is generally regarded as one of the games major weaknesses. I found it to be more challenging 
 and more enjoyable than I expected, but indeed flawed. In some cases, combat is far too easy. Its 
 so easy sometimes that it is best described as broken. Namely, combat against single human opponents 
 is outrageously easy in almost every case. Whether its a boss battle or just a fight against a 
 single henchman, these battles can usually be won by just hammering away at the primary attack 
 button and then occasionally maneuvering away when the opponent blocks a punch. Many side quests 
 and points in the story should end up with climactic battles against important opponents, but these 
 moments fall flat because the enemy puts up almost no fight. Better boss AI and a wider variety 
 of enemy tactics would have gone a long way to making the game more exciting and more dramatic.
 
  
  The combat shines much more when it gets bigger in scale and more complicated. Some of the better 
 battles involve fighting four or more opponents at once, sometimes with one of them a boss or a 
 tough demon. You may have to switch styles a couple of times during the fight and cleverly position 
 yourself to avoid getting ganged up on by the group. I encountered at least a few fights that forced 
 me to reload the game a few times and try different methods. Ultimately, combat is an asset to 
 Jade Empire, especially when you consider that theres nothing else to compare it to. The visual 
 style and harder encounters more than make up for the easier ones.
  
  The other major element of the gameplay is interacting with Jade Empires epic cast of characters. 
 Jade Empire has only two major hubs and they are smaller in area than Biowares previous games, 
 but they much more densely packed with unique NPCs that have tasks for you and meaningful things 
 to say. One thing that you cannot say about Jade Empire is that it is short on dialog. I dont 
 know the total lines count, but it could be more than Kotor. Even relatively insignificant NPCs 
 can have a three minute conversation with you. All of it is very well-written, well acted, and 
 well worth listening to (thank God, there are no fake Chinese accents in this game) . If you engage 
 in all of the conversation that the game has to offer, you can easily spend over 25 hours playing 
 it. If there is a drawback to it though, its that dialog choices generally fall back onto the 
 worn out convention of nice response or mean response that has been part of Bioware RPGs for 
 a long time now. NPCs will ask you for help and you can generally respond yes, no, or yes 
 give me some money! There are variations, but the pattern is fairly consistent..
  
  These choices line up with Jade Empires simple morality system. The system allows you to follow 
 the path of The Open Palm or The Closed Fist, but they might as well be labeled Good or Evil 
 or Dark Side vs. Light Side, because that is basically what they are. Kotors system of earning 
 Light or Dark side points with each action seems almost copied and pasted into Jade Empire. The 
 game seems to be trying to explore grayer shades of morality, or different ways of looking at what 
 constitutes a good deed, but it altogether fails in this aim. Quests can almost always be completed 
 in multiple ways, but they usually just involve being nice and helpful or being mean and greedy. 
 Rarely does the game deviate from this formula, and this is one of its greatest drawbacks. Having 
 choices in quests is an asset for the game, but the formulaic morality system gives the game a 
 tired feel if you have played Kotor, Neverwinter Nights, and Baldurs Gate 2.
  
  Jade Empire also lifts Kotors party system, but it strips away most of what makes it good -- namely, 
 the ability to level of your companions and control them in combat. As with many other party-based 
 RPGs, there is a gaggle of characters that join you along the way. However, only one of them can 
 accompany you at a time, and you cannot control his or her actions in combat. You can only control 
 whether that character is in combat or support mode, neither of which make much of a difference.
 
  
  Whatever innovation Jade Empire lacks in its party or morality systems though, it makes up for 
 with its colorful and unique setting. Jade Empire has its own history, background, heroes, supersititions, 
 and lore, and Jeremy Soule tops it off with his best soundtrack in years. You can spend hours and 
 hours talking with NPCs or reading scrolls about this background material and the events that 
 have led up to the events in the game. At one point in the game, you can participate in a play 
 that glorifies the empires history. You can also change a few lines so that the play mocks the 
 emperor. At another point, you can argue East vs West philosophy with an arrogant Westerner. It 
 ultimately has little effect upon the game, but it is these details that make Jade Empire the best 
 new game setting since Arcanum.
  
  One major criticism that has been leveled at Jade Empire is that it is short. It is, indeed, short, 
 if you dont like dialog. It is possible to complete the game in less than 15 hours if you skip 
 through the 10-15 hours of chatter. I was satisfied though, with the amount of content in the game. 
 The length is appropriate  it wraps up the story without overstaying its welcome, and also without 
 leaving you unsatisfied. Jade Empire is a good value, as long as you dont mind half of the value 
 being tied up in conversations.
  
  Jade Empire is not Biowares best game, but there is a lot of potential for this series. The fun 
 (but flawed) combat system, the unique setting, the style, the interesting and well-written characters 
  they are all there. This package, however, is not up to Kotor and Baldurs Gate 2 standards. If 
 youre looking more for a true role playing epic than a dialog-driven beat-em-up, then this may 
 not be the game for you. However, if the gameplay and subject matter sound interesting, you owe 
 it to yourself to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silph01
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 25, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw it, I knew I had to buy it. What could you not want from first sight? All gaming 
 fans are attracted to shiny, heavy boxes, leaving our wondering as to what is inside only to the 
 imagination. I bought it as soon as I had the cash, and wow, was it worth it.
  
  I was on somewhat a gaming hiatus since Sudeki, which I found, very fortunately behind some The 
 Incredibles games, late December 2006. No games seemed to interest me anymore until Jade Empire. 
 What more is there to want than an oriental-based RPG set with mystical magic and physical strength? 
 The game provides it all, along with a Choose your own destiny  be either good or evil (Or according 
 to this game, follow the open palm or the closed fist) Style of gameplay, which makes you curious 
 as to whether there will be different storylines and different endings.
  
  
  
  GAMEPLAY:
 
  
  Simpler is sometimes better, honestly, as the controls do not require a Spiderman of the keyboard 
 to work with. You can choose either WASD or the arrow keys, which in my opinion is diverse so 
 that both left-handed and right-handed players are able to use both the mouse and the keyboard 
 comfortably. Hotkey assignment gives the game a much easier battle format so you dont have to 
 pause every five seconds, but that is the norm these days anyways, what with Every good RPG making 
 use of hotkeys. Once youre done figuring out the keys, youre ready to play the game. You are 
 the protagonist actually one of six protagonists (even though they follow the same storyline, 
 but each character is fitted with different techniques and enhancements.) You are a student in 
 a small school in some village that only plays the starting role of what your journey manifests 
 itself into. You meet people along the way that gives you quite a large party at the end of it 
 all, and since only one person can accompany you at any time; its always the nerve-racking choice 
 of who to go with you. Luckily they are all equally powerful and usually they are all available, 
 except for a few specific parts in the story. Now you have the keys set, your party members and 
 youve chosen who to follow you now youre ready for the story itself! The game itself is seven 
 chapters long, each one beginning at a new threshold on your journey. In each chapter there are 
 specific main quests as well as tons of side quests that in turn breed dozens more, for your enjoyment 
 as you watch your character grow both in level, and also in the way you were destined for (the 
 open palm OR the closed fist) . Few quests will only be accessible if you choose one of the ways, 
 as you will need to follow one path to complete some of the small quests, and the other path for 
 some of the other quests. As a whole, it will be almost impossible to complete every single quest.
 
  
  On the whole, the game is somewhat free-form as, while exploring some cities, you wont have an 
 actual direction and can explore anything, although there is not a world map, and your main direction 
 is the one the story dictates, but it still offers quite a bit of freedom to do quests and everything 
 else.
  
  The game is also filled with plenty GASP moments and twists in the story. The final twist, which 
 occurs near the end of the game, is actually the most unexpected one, if you have followed the 
 way of the open palm.
  
  
  
  GRAPHICS:
 
  
  I just wish I had something better than a GeForce FX5200 for this game. The graphics, although, 
 are astounding. They make use of the shading and contrast to give a great feeling to the game  
 a feeling of action and liveliness, so youll never feel youre all alone in the game.
  
  
  
  SOUND:
 
  
  It surely shows that a lot of effort has been made with the sound. The ambient background music 
 of the various areas creates a great atmosphere as to what is going to be done in that place. Every 
 single talk able character has his or her own voice as well as original dialogue. While some of 
 the made-up language seems very corny, and the exact same sounds are used for completely different 
 scripts, its only a minor flaw in the brilliance that is oral distribution. Too bad your own character 
 has no voice (except in battle when he/she says a few taunts or whatnot) because I hate it when 
 the main character can never speak for himself *looks at Pokemon* .
  
  
  
  VALUE:
 
  
  Value for money? Definitely. Youll spend at least more than ten hours on this game which is pretty 
 good for gaming, I believe. Also you might want to replay the game and choose the alternate path 
 to what you already took.
  Then you get the box! It has a rulebook, a promotional poster and a brilliant concept art book 
 that shows you the true power of a Wacom Tablet.
  
  
  
  CLOSING WORDS:
 
  
  If youre looking for some gaming inspiration, or just dont feel like loading a dark, eerie game 
 that leaves you with a feeling of emptiness, then get this game, turn it on, enjoy the fun and 
 marvel at the details. DETAILS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kanoko
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 24, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, trust me one of the best RPG's on the pc. The graphics are great and the 
 new introduction into asian/oriental culture is new and an extreme welcome, since there are not 
 many asian themed games. Very easy to get into and spells, and other different ways to persuade 
 with good or evil was fun. Though, after I finished the entire game I had absolutely no desire 
 to play this game again, and i think either a different path completely or a multiplayer aspect 
 would have been better for the game. Though this is still a great game and you should defiantly 
 look into it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woozienebunu
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 1, 2007 1:04 am PT
Review:  Jade Empire has earned it's glory on Xbox and now it came to our blessed PC's. I have waited long 
 enough but it was worth the while.
  
  THE GAME
  
  The game starts easily in a school near a town when Master Li trains you. You get used to the control 
 and see the Biostyle in creating RPG's. The game is pretty easy and it keeps you along with the 
 action. The gameplay is excellent because it is RPG like. You can choose between two Ways (Open Palm 
 and Closed Fist, first for me) . This depends on your actions. Be respectful with the others and you 
 will follow the Open Palm. Rough them around and.. the outcome is clear. The quests are quite different 
 and you will be put in front of choices (Close the Dam, Don't Close The Dam) . The combat is implemented 
 in a good way. Many combat styles and the moves wind out good (10 to artistic impression) . You have 
 characters which base on different skills (speed, power, magic) but you CAN customise them (not the 
 look though) . The story is good, the situations turn, your compnions are tied to places and it really 
 keeps you up with what happens.
  
  THE GRAPHICS
  The graphic engine is quite old but it has some nice effects and it doesn't leave you with ugly 
 graphics and so but after all time passed&amp; it could have been better.
  
  THE SOUND
  The sound is excellent though those actors who recorded seem quite bored of what they're doing. The 
 clahing steel and punches sound very well.
  
  THE GRAND FINALE
  As it was normal to be, in the end you save the world and you make the people happy (if you follow 
 the Open Palm... if not, I don't know)
  It's a game you can't miss and truly the best RPG (Mass Effect for PC=when?) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swoosie
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 27, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  I -- a die-hard Bioware RPG fan -- was decidedly ehhh when I heard about this console RPG port 
 coming out on the PC. Still, I gave it a shot, trusting Bioware's reputation, and a major gap in 
 my life for another engrossing RPG. I have been rewarded -- Jade Empire on the PC is a deep, VERY 
 original, immersive RPG. As an action-RPG, it's far more in-depth into the RPG-style character 
 development &amp; story than Titan Quest , or Dungeon Siege . That said, it's certainly not Oblivion 
 . It fits squarely in the middle. The story is really quite engrossing, and the NPCs are classic 
 Bioware -- they all have distinctive personalities and traits. You can quest and fight with one 
 NPC at a time, choosing from any you've met along the way at any time. Your buddy doesn't really 
 have any affect on the game, other than providing dialog points and someone to distract enemies 
 (but they don't seem to be significant in affecting the outcome of battles -- they don't kill baddies) . 
 Also, you do not control the stats or leveling of your cohorts, unlike in Knights of The Old Republic. 
 The action elements vary. The RPG-style combat is fun and somewhat tactical, but not pausable like 
 it was in KOTOR. You can choose the difficulty level, though, so if you find it overwhelming, you 
 can easily make combat stupidly simple. They have some minigames within the context of the RPG, 
 and those are fairly pathetic, but thankfully, skippable. As for character development, you don't 
 have a traditional inventory , so this game won't satisfy people that enjoy the goodie grabbing 
 in some RPGs. Still, character development is rich, as you select from many fighting styles and 
 attributes for those styles.
  In short, if you like KOTOR, buy this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kippesd
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 24, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying I believe if you are new to the Bioware RPG experience then Jade Empire 
 can be an enjoyable experience. For the rest of us though I'm afraid the shock and awe will wear 
 off rather quickly.
  
  Jade Empire has the typical role-playing conventions of choosing a character, choosing which particular 
 combat styles you would like to have to start the game (don't fret here too much though, you will 
 be picking up a rather expansive selection of added skills as the game progresses) , and choosing 
 between which three basic attributes of body, mind and focus to put your starting points into. 
 From here, the game does a good job of introducing you to the dialog interface and the combat interface 
 - which is really a precursor to what the remaining 99% of the game will entail..
  
  Jade Dragon has a rather impressive story as far as scope; unfortunately most of the good stuff 
 (read: quests) are rather bland and un-fulfilling. There are several impressive twists in the story, 
 but again, up until the final battle I did not feel like I was the last savior of Earth.
  
  The graphics are adequate, the world feels rather sparse as far as detail goes. You can tell that 
 the graphics engine is an updated version of the same once they used in KOTR and KOTR2, which is 
 nice, but starting to feel dated.. I think that's pretty much how it goes for games primarily developed 
 for the console (in this case the X-Box) and then later brought to the PC. I've yet to play one 
 where I couldn't immediately tell. The sound, on the contrary, is excellent and is always appropriate 
 for the given situation.
  
  The fighting can be fast and furious, but never on a difficulty level of a Ninja Gaiden Black. 
 One caveat we the PC crowd get is the addition of two new styles, the Iron Palm and Viper. Your 
 character will only be able to use one depending on whether you go the way of the Open Palm or 
 Closed Fist (translation: Lawful Good vs. Chaotic Neutral) but again, there is nothing really special 
 about these styles to make you feel like you are the savior of the world.
  
  The quests are not very memorable, it would of been nicer if they would have chosen Asian actors 
 to do the voice-over to add to the immersion. There are a couple that are enjoyable (one where 
 you get to be an actor in a play and you can choose whether to sabotage it or not) but mostly you'll 
 find yourself going from point A to point B.
  
  This is a decent sub $30 game but for people like me who have been spoiled by the sheer brilliance 
 of just about everything Bioware has done I'm afraid you'll have to wait for their next endeavor. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaanus147
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 24, 2007 6:20 am PT
Review:  Jade Empire is a great game for the PC. The only thing what is really bad about this game is that 
 it was released so late for the PC. Jade Empire has a superb story what you can't find in any game. 
 You have great choices in the story what in the end will mater who you finish the game. There isn't 
 only good or evil, white or black there also is a gray zone. The choice thing has only on flaw. 
 In the end of the game you can make so big choices for good or evil, that it doesn't matter how 
 you play between. But you get a lot of great response from the NPCs when you are good, evil or 
 neutral. Gameplay of the game is pretty solid. The combat system is a little boring. When you start 
 it seems quite cool but when you further go through the game it gets so repeating. The graphics 
 engine is a bit outdated but it still looks pretty. The game is great and very enjoyable. But it's 
 to short for the hardcore player. At least it has a lot of replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kayden
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 23, 2007 6:19 am PT
Review:  I played through the xbox version along time ago and I loved it but it so damn long to load every 
 map I felt like I was waisting way and all I wanted to do was finish it because of that fact. I 
 know I missed a lot by doing that and I always wanted to go back but I didn't want the load times 
 so when it came out for the pc I was ecstatic and though the graphics are a little dated and not 
 much of the core game play hasn't changed I still enjoy this title again. The pc load times are 
 over in a blink of an eye for me and I am looking forward to going through this again (w/my 360 
 controller) and delving deeper into the world that is Jade Empire. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Klee99
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 21, 2007 1:04 pm PT
Review:  This is an impressive game that will draw you in, make you lose track of time, and have you thinking 
 about it long after its over. The visual style of Jade Empire is particularly strong. This world 
 has a richer color palette than many fantasy realms. The orange glow of sunsets, the warm reds 
 of lanterns, and varied greens of grasslands all make you feel like youre inside a beautiful painting. 
 The characters are interesting visually and personally. Good voice acting is essential in a game 
 like this because the movements of and facial expressions of the 3D actors are very limited. The 
 voice work is excellent. Every characters personality is shaped by the dialogue. The music creates 
 the perfect atmosphere for most areas. The combat is fun and fast-paced. You have a lot of options 
 for attack and defence although fighting occasionally gets repetitive when you are facing opponents 
 like ghosts that are immune to many of your attacks. Area attacks are particularly enjoyable. Its 
 great fun to set everyone on fire or paralyze three people at once. The fights with the Big Boss 
 characters arent really any more difficult than the other fights, however and some of them seemed 
 much too easy. I couldnt believe how quickly I killed the Emperor. You can change the level of 
 difficulty at any time though. The story is immersive although very linear. As with so many RPGs, 
 you feel like you are being pushed down a particular path without much choice involved. Although 
 you have the option of being good or evil, this doesnt really change the story too much. A truly 
 interesting game might have a whole different set of characters and settings appear if you choose 
 to be evil instead of good. The lack of a full item inventory is a bit disappointing since one 
 of the main attractions of RPGs is picking up lots of cool items. Even the ability to change your 
 clothes is a fun feature that Jade Empire lacks. The scale of the game might seem disappointing 
 when compared with other games. It doesnt last as long as Knights of the Old Republic. You can 
 probably play through the whole game in a week. There arent very many places to travel to in the 
 Jade Empire. It sort of pointless to have a World Map when there are really only two places you 
 can go. The Imperial City should feel much larger than the town of Tiens Landing, but it doesnt. 
 The palace seems awfully small too. When compared with a game like GTA: San Andreas, this world 
 seems very small indeed. Wouldnt it be better if the city had dozens of different neighborhoods, 
 if the countryside was a wide open space that you could explore? Wouldnt it feel more like a true 
 empire if there were lots more cities? Imagine a huge empire map where you could travel anywhere: 
 mountains, plains, rivers, and vast forests. Dont say it cant be done, because it has been done 
 in other games. Many games are starting to combine an open-ended world with a set of linear missions. 
 Something I liked about KOTOR was that you could play the missions in a different order. Theres 
 only a limited ability to do that in Jade Empire. What Im saying to the developers is Give us 
 more choice. Despite my complaints, its still a good game and I do recommend it to everyone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 20, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Jade Empire Special Edition is a very enjoyable action rpg game from Bioware and 2K games . After 
 you done selecting your character you find you are from Jade Empire's (a imaginary chinese place) 
 Martial Art School .You are a orphan but your mission is too find about your past .The storyline 
 and the music of the game rocks. You can enhance your skill points as you progress in the game more 
 , buy stuffs ,earn points and money and level up .You get different types of powerful allies / 
 followers to help you in your quests as you progress. You can easily choose easily from them. The 
 games mission are very interesting added with side quests .Lots of action is there in the game 
 and yes , they are fun. You get lots of different combats (martial arts , magic , sword fight etc) 
 to deal with opponnents .In some level you get old chineses fighter plane too to fly and defeat 
 other flying fighters (AWESOME) . You get variety of opponents to fight too like evil bandits , 
 ghosts , monsters etc . The games cutscenes are very beautiful and dramatic . The voiceacting is 
 sometimes done in chinese but its subtitles are shown in english tho. The voiceacting by characters 
 are neatly done .The graphics / Visuals in the games is very colourful and very pleasant to the 
 eyes .The game world has been constructed very beautifully . AI is okay. Soundquality in the game 
 is quite decent .The game is originally a X Box game but the P. C version controls are user freindly 
 with Keyboard and mouse ,tho sometimes for some combats you need some practice. After you done completing 
 the full game with every side quests done too, you get to unlock mini-games and play them. I recommend 
 this game to everyone and its a must play game for all ages . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheShadowDawn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 14, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  I bought Jade Empire on the very simple basis that it was made by Bioware, who I continue to worship 
 because I remember Baldur's Gate 2 and Knights of the Old Republic. In fact, having failed to read 
 up on Jade Empire at all, I more or less expected it to be KOTOR with martial arts instead of lightsabers. 
 This, of course, is very far from the truth.
  
  But I was pleasantly surprised nonetheless.
  
  Jade Empire, it must be said, is a very basic 
 game. There are a few minigames, there are a few sidequests that you can get better rewards from 
 if you do a bit of digging around and investigating, but for the most part, it comes down to two 
 things: taking to people, and beating them up. Luckily, it does both of these quite well.
  
  The basic mechanics of Jade Empire are very easy to pick up. While there are different types 
 of combat styles - martial, weapon, support, magic and transformation - they are all oriented around 
 the same basic mechanics, and once you know how to fight using one style, it's a relatively quick 
 process to pick up how to use a new one.
  
  Combat strategy is also fairly basic: the basic triad is blocking foils fast attacks, which outpace 
 power attacks, which can break through blocking. A few other abilities fill out the strategic depth 
 of Jade Empire: the ability to use chi strikes to amplify the effects of styles, the various immunities 
 to certain styles that monsters have, the ability to launch area attacks or harmonic combos (precision-timed 
 kills which grant you health/chi or focus orbs) and the ability to go into 'focus mode (bullet 
 time?) in order to launch lightning attacks.
  
  While you may be tempted to feel that such a basic level of strategy will get old quickly... well, 
 surprisingly, it doesn't. The basic encounters vary on a frequent enough basis that you can't always 
 rely on the same mechanical tactics. Bosses will put you on your toes and make you extra careful 
 not to get hit... in some boss fights, you'll be dodging so fast and so often that you might cause 
 any spectators you might have to go into epileptic fits.
  
  Combat also feels good - it's surprising kinetic, and when you swing a sword in a circle, you'll 
 feel that enemies behave logically as a result, being pushed back as a group, or thrown away when 
 you perform an area attack.
  
  The talking side of things is Jade Empire's story - which is, in usual Bioware form, simple but 
 well presented. It provides a great break from bashing enemies heads in and banishing ghosts, and 
 the involvement of your companions makes you feel that your quest is actually useful and not merely 
 a generic quest to save the world. Several romance options are available (whether you play a male 
 or female PC) which are actually composed of more bad humour than emotional development, but are 
 quite satisfying to explore nonetheless.
  
  Graphically, Jade Empire shows its roots in the KOTOR game engine, and despite the game's heavily 
 stylised graphics (including the bizarre fascination with plastic-wrap lighting reflection - even 
 when there are no visible light sources!) it really looks organic and convincing. Jade Empire is 
 one of those colourful games, where the environments really look fun, exotic, or immersive - not 
 simply a drab stage upon to crack skulls.
  
  Jade Empire's music is similarly stereotypical and stylised, but equally convincing and appropriate.
 
  
  I have heard some critique of the controls and bugginess, but have yet to encounter any such problems 
 myself and am now on my second run through. The game's console origins are quite clear with the 
 controls - you may want to fiddle around a bit to get comfortable with them. And one piece of advice 
 if you find yourself getting overwhelmed, map the Combat Pause button somewhere useful, and you 
 can then pause during combat to switch styles or take stock of your situation.
  
  All in all, I heartily recommend Jade Empire to anyone who liked KOTOR or previous Bioware efforts 
 - or, indeed, anyone who prefers lighter fare to complex RPG's and likes something fast paced but 
 still possessing story development and interesting companions along the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mezzanne
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 9, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  There've often been problems with games ported to the PC, and unfortunately Jade Empire is no exception.
 
  
  The gameplay suffers the most. This is clearly a game created for a console... there's no inventory, 
 and leveling up is very simple and somewhat unfulfilling. This is all OK, but the weak point of 
 the game is the combat - it's crap. You can learn a lot of styles but they all amout to one thing 
 - constant clicking. It gets old really quickly and it's a real pain sometimes. There's no problem 
 with control though, it's just the system itself that's flawed.
  
  The graphics? It's an older game, so they aren't so great. But the locations are exotic and interesting, 
 and the graphics are used beautifully to full effect here... the graphics may be without bells 
 and whistles, but the game looks very good.
  
  Music is apt and enjoyable, voice acting is good, but most importantly, the storyline is fantastic... I 
 don't think it's as good as that of KOTOR, but it does come close, and is defenitely memorable, 
 as are the characters.
  
  This game goes mirror Knights of the Old Republic in many ways, and I don't think it surpasses 
 it in many ways - however, it's still a great game in it's own right, it's a flawed jem... but 
 what a gem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geldonyetich
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 8, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Jade Empire: Special Edition is the PC port of the XBox game released in 2005. There have been a 
 few enhancements (such as additional characters to play and more martial styles) but there have 
 also been some omissions (such as the removal of the Monkey Paw style) . I also ran into a nasty 
 technical glitch that XBox owners would not have to tolerate. Thus, I think it is best enjoyed 
 by either those who have never played the XBox version or those who loved it enough for a second 
 play through at high resolution. Without getting into spoilers, Jade Empire revolves around the 
 story of a young monk (you) who discovers their destiny revolves around saving the world. On the 
 way, you'll have the opportunity to romance a select few companions (both genders are supported) 
 and be involved in various sidequests through menu driven dialogues. The only real thing that sets 
 this clique plot apart is Bioware-quality scripts (which itself may seem clique if you've played 
 a lot of Bioware games) and a distinct Eastern flavor to things.
  
  Jade Empire may not be what you might expect of a role playing game. Sure, you move through a beautiful 
 game world speaking to people, performing quests, and being frequently engaged in combat, but the 
 similarities end there. You have no inventory of weapons and armor, instead you have essence gems 
 which are equipped to boost certain stats. Character progression is relegated to boosting three 
 main stats which govern a few substats and choosing which martial styles to specialize in. You 
 can wield weapons, but they're treated as a learned style and not as an inventory object. Combat 
 is a highly action-based martial arts extravaganza. I would call this a light role-playing game, 
 but then again, since when was roleplay supposed to be about balancing spreadsheets?
  
  Perhaps the most conflicting to RPG aspect is the combat. It plays out somewhat like rock, paper, 
 scissors at its core: Normal attacks interrupt strong attacks. Blocking nullifies normal attacks. 
 Strong attacks break blocks. You switch between up to 10 styles on the fly, and each has three 
 moves: normal, strong, and area of effect attacks. There's five kinds of styles: Martial styles 
 are your basic damage doers. Weapon styles are more potent martial attacks that eat focus points 
 but are ineffective against certain targets. Support styles usually debuff the target or restore 
 your stats. Magic styles usually do long range magical attacks. Finally, Transformation styles 
 burn a bunch of chi but transform you into powerful demon. Rounding out the combat is the addition 
 of Focus (which burns Focus Points for slow motion) and Chi (which can be spent to enhance your 
 attacks) and certain cross-style combinations which cause your foes to explode messily but leave 
 behind powerups. Once mastered, combat is fairly easy and rarely will you end up reloading. The 
 PC version includes an unlockable Master -level difficulty, but I suspect it's just a less forgiving 
 version of the combat you've already mastered.
  
  It's important to note that Jade Empire is not an entirely open-ended game like Fable. Loose comparisons 
 can be drawn to the general blend of action and roleplaying gameplay, but Fable was painstakingly 
 designed to give the player considerably more freedom. Despite the ability to go back to earlier 
 locations, Jade Empire is a fairly linear game. This is not to discount Jade Empire. This game 
 does tell a compelling story and possesses a good atmosphere and even a few embedded mini-games. 
 I really can't do justice in my writing about just how good the art direction was in this game, 
 and my score reflects this. It may seem a little pixelated here and there, but rare is the game 
 that has comparably good artistic detail.
  
  That said, it's a travesty to see this otherwise solid game flawed by a few major technical glitches. 
 The main glitch that bothered me is encountered by a few people (including myself) on a wide range 
 of even up-to-date systems. The essence of the glitch is a nasty frame rate leak in combat. The 
 first few combats after first booting up the game go well, but subsequent combats drop severely 
 in frame rate when certain events such as a power attack are executing. Changing the refresh rate 
 or resolution in-game will reset performance to it's boot up levels, but it's only a temporary 
 fix and having to do this every few battles may prove damage some monitors. Take2 technical support 
 was unable to provide a resolution to this. Another issue is a certain part of the plot where a 
 cutscene is often caught in an endless loop, preventing further progression. I hope there is a 
 patch released which resolves these issues, and I'll happily revise my Reviewer's Tilt score if 
 this comes to pass. In the meanwhile, let the buyer beware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdhibberd
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 1, 2007 1:05 am PT
Review:  It won't be winning any awards, unlike it's older sibling KOTOR, but it's not bad. First, the bad 
 news. The main plotline of the game itself is short. I finished it off in under 20 hours, and that 
 was with a good portion of the subplots. As far as gameplay, the normal setting was simple. Only 
 a few of the bosses ever caused any problem. I used Tiger Claw form the entire time, unless things 
 got too hairy. Then switching to Toad Demon or Jade Golem would take care of it. Your basic button 
 mashing combat. Character custimization is fairly limited. You have 7 (I think) characters to pick 
 from. Now the good news. The story is good. It even manages to have a few surprises. And, based 
 on your choices, the story will change somewhat. This means that there's an incentive to replay 
 it at least once or twice. The voice acting is top notch. This isn't like Oblivion where they spent 
 the entire voice budget on a big name, then had 3 other people try to voice an entire world. Every 
 character has a unique voice, and there's even a few that you'll probably recognize. You could 
 easily be watching a movie.
  
  The graphics aren't bad, but they're not great either. Personally, I play games where I can put 
 myself into the character's shoes, so mediocre gameplay doesn't bother me much, if the story is 
 good enough to suck me in. This one was. All in all, it could have been better, but It was still 
 good. If you haven't played KOTOR, and you can only afford one, buy KOTOR (unless you really hate 
 Star Wars, and then even still get KOTOR) . If you're not in any rush to buy a new game, go ahead 
 and wait for a few months until the price drops. But if you have to have something now, and you 
 like these kinds of games, definately you should get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodreaverSlut
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 31, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Jade Empire has been out for Xbox quite a while now and has recently been translated to the PC.
 
  
  The good thing about this game is definatly the story. It takes a short while to get really into 
 the story. The characters in the story are all well designed and the alignement system is pretty 
 good and allows you to experience a different sort of story, while doing the same story.
  
  Problem with jade empire on the PC is the fact that the combat is VERY repetative and gets old 
 REALLY fast. Good thing there is a good story, cause that will be the thing that keeps you motivated 
 to play this game. Reason why the combat is so bad, is that it relies on target selecting while 
 using mainly melee attacks, which makes absolutely no sence. Sure there is you free-look mode while 
 fighting, but that is even worse then with target locking on.
  The way you develop your character might seem interresting at start, but is rather shallow. You 
 get to learn different sort of martial styles, but they have only 3 different stats to improve 
 which only feature 5 levels for each stat.
  
  The graphics are ok. Sure it's nothing new or amazing, but it looks fine. Almost any system should 
 be able to run this without many problems.
  
  The game has a few bugs in it and at first, the game might be a little too easy. Especially if 
 you focus on one art at the start of the game, you get stronger then most enemies real fast.
  
  The game has good replay value because you can experience it in different ways, like being 
 good or evil (open palm or closed fist) . I rate it a 7.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aiat_gamer
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 31, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  when you think bioware, you immediatly think knight of the old republic,
  and you should, it was one of the best rpg games of all time, with familiar starwars setting, and 
 a new approach to it, with its brilliant EVIL and GOOD sides, and being able to TALK evil (or good!) , one 
 would agree it was a whole new thing. now it comes jade empire, with sort of deja vu feel, nice setting 
 and story, but it doesnt seem enough.
  
  i wont bother with story, as you can read about it every where, the reall talk is about the game 
 itself.
  the thing that strikes you first, is the combat style, it will be clear that changing from a traditionl 
 turn base form to reall time is not good at all, is simply isnt fun, sure, you have different styles 
 to choose from, and you have main a secondary (and more powerfull, bu slower) attack, but lack of combos, makes 
 them feel a bit dry, all you need to do is press the attack button until your foe is dead, and occasionally 
 use block or evade. you dont actually need to switch styles either, the main style is enough on its 
 own. there is another bad thing about fighting, because you cant walk fast during a fight, closing 
 on an enemy will be a chore, because chances are you`ll get caught up in his combo, using the evade 
 doesnt help much either.
  ok, so the combat isnt that good, what else? well, the task of doing quests isnt good either, side quests 
 arent fun for most parts, and they are just too easy to get in to, and before you know it, your done.
 
  another problem is this: there is just too much dialog during quests, you walk, you fights, and then 
 you do a lot of talking, what worse is that most of dialog isnt interesting, and it doesnt say anything 
 much or new.
  the story it self isnt that good, it all happens too fast, and some parts doesnt make much sense, for 
 example, after saving a fellow student and flying an a FLYER (the word for plane in game, talk about 
 originality!) for the second time, you find out that it wont make to the imperial city, but rather 
 in a village close to it, why? it was flying fine before you ask? well, just becuase developers wanted 
 you to do stuff before going to imperial city, and didnt want to tire their mind coming with a simple 
 cause (like the flyer getting shot) , unfortunatly, these moment are too common in this game.
  
  the graphics are not impressing at all, i know this a two year old game, but i have a hard time 
 believing this game was any HI TECH back then.
  somethings have been done to improve it, but they arent enought, the charecter models are good when 
 they are still, but when moving, they look a bit stiff. i can think of handfull of games from that 
 year and earlier that look better nowadays (fable comes to mind)
  
  the sound is average at best, with generic voice acting and a good (if forgetable) music.
  
  overall, you 
 might enjoy this game, if you are a big rpg fan, and graphic and combat arent that important to you. but 
 there are far better rpgs out there, for instance KOTOR 1 and 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ontain
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 19, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  The player select from several character with there own starting stats and talents. You go about 
 the story speaking to any one you can to learn out about yourself, the mission or the other goals 
 of the game.
  
  Gameplay (8/10)
  Like many other bioware games then gameplay deals with a lot of dialog. Your selection of dialog 
 influences if you to follow either the Way of the Open Palm, or the Way of the Fist. It's essentially 
 the same as Light and Dark for Jedi. The combat requires little thought. there's pretty much just 
 a basic attack, a power attack and an area attack. There are also a lot of different styles. You'll 
 end up only really concentrating on a few (4) styles since you only get a few points to put into 
 them per level. There are combos that you can pull off but they aren't really required. In fact 
 I played through most of the game not using them. It's going to be the story that really keeps 
 you going in this game.
  
  Graphics (8/10)
  The character models don't look very good. You can tell that the didn't have enough polygons. The 
 environment is wonderful though. The art style really stands out. The colors are a big change from 
 most games we see these days.
  
  Sound (9/10)
  The music is good and fitting for the setting. The voice acting was good as well.
  
  Value 
 (8.5/10)
  This game didn't seem as long as KOTOR and unlike KOTOR I don't see myself replaying this game 
 but it did provide about 20-30 hours of good storytelling and decent gameplay.
  
  Tilt (8.5/10)
  I liked this game. It's not going to be as memorable as KOTOR but few games are. 
 If you like games with strong storytelling then this is a game you should check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gagoko2001
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 27, 2007 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Played this on the X-Box 2 years ago and loved it. Played it again on the PC and still love it!!!! 
 One my most memorable game experiences. The graphics and environment are beautiful and very detailed 
 and a nice change of scenery from the usual tolkien setting. The graphics are updated and improved 
 from the Xbox version.
  
  The battle system is fun and engaging compared to the old rehashed dnd engine of NWN and KoTOR. 
 Don't get me wrong I love KoTOR but the battles weren't so engaging given that you can win almost 
 any fight without having to do anything and letting AI fight for you. The PC version allows players 
 to hot key 10 fighting styles (instead of the Xbox's 4 styles) for rapid style switching and combos. 
 New enemies are added into the (Rhino Demon) as well as two new fighting styles (Iron Palm and 
 Viper) . Although I am disappointed that they didn't take the time to add back in the Monkey Fist 
 style that was left out of the Xbox game. The AI has also been tweaked an improved and should provide 
 more of a challenge and generally everything has been rebalanced.
  
  The moral system between good (open palm) and evil (closed fist) also yield more consequences to 
 the story and game play (as opposed to NWN2 were almost every choice you made had absolutely no 
 consequence at all) . Still though, this game lacks a neutral path for players who wish to take 
 that road.
  
  The characters are memorable and conversations are witty. The story may start out making by giving 
 out obvious clues and making you believe that you already know what to expect of the story, but 
 believe me you will not see the twist coming!!! My only gripe though is that the game is too short 
 (16-20 hours) , but it does offer a lot of replay value especially now with the Jade Master difficulty 
 mode exclusive to the PC version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x_freelancer_x
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 27, 2007 12:03 am PT
Review:  I was impressed by the story of the game, the gameplay is not that much difficult once you get 
 the hang of it, and the graphics are not that good considering its an rpg, but the story itself 
 kept me in front of the pc few nights in a row till i finished it. It is definitely a great title 
 especially if you are a kung-fu fan like me and if the graphics are not the first thing you look 
 in a game. My advice is to play it a bit because it might get a bit boring at the beginning till 
 you find out whats going on but after that... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceteo012
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 26, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  I still remember being pretty pissed off when I heard that JE was going to be an Xbox exclusive. 
 Finally, I now have a chance to play it on my PC. If I have to wait that long for Mass Effect to 
 be ported...... (Com'on Bioware, where's the love???)
  
  Gameplay: While the action does become a bit repetitive after some time, I generally forgave that 
 cos the story is excellent. There are plenty of twists and turns that make you sit up an go Why 
 did'nt I notice that? . The fights for most parts is generally very easy and well paced. I did 
 have some bugs where I got stuck in furniture and fittings, but it is rare and usually solved with 
 a Quickload. And I could'nt believe it when I encountered the same sex romance between my char 
 &amp; the NPCs. No many developers will have allowed that and i tip my hat off to Bioware.
  
  Graphics &amp; Sound: I generally forgave the graphics cos its a 2 yaer game. There are some 
 obvious flaws but hey, graphics dnt make the game and the general environment and fighting animations 
 look good anyway. The sound is excellent however, with terrific voice acting and background music 
 that really immerse you into the game.
  
  Value: For its price, you can get around 60+ hours of gameplay playing with male/female chars and 
 Open Palm/Closed Fist style. Seems like good value to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irate_Hobbit
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Alot of talk is about if you played this on Xbox, there is no reason to play it again on PC. Well, 
 that didn't hold true for me. I'd have to say if you enjoyed the game very much, its worthy of 
 being played again when it looks better and has some added features. This is just a great story 
 and great characters. Although the fighting system can seem lame if you just mash 1 button and 
 never switch styles. What you get out of the fighting system is up to you. Features added to graphics 
 are higher res and widescreen, soft shadows, AA, frame buffer effects and the option to turn bloom 
 off. At high res with 4xAA and all the effects on it doesn't look like an Xbox game, but doesn't 
 look like the hottest game ever either. The sound does not support EAX. The MS 360 controller sync's 
 up easily with a button layout the same as if you were playing on the original Xbox. Although the 
 keyboard allows you to map more than 4 styles. The controller only allows 4 for each direction 
 of d-pad. But you can use the keyboard at the same time to have more styles ready. The new game 
 content is minor in terms of items, styles, and levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akullatraxas
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  I think that everyone heard about Baldur's Gate, Neverwinter Nights or Star Wars Knights of the 
 Old Republic. These are ones of the best rpg-s and behind them is only one name: Bioware. So, when 
 I saw that Jade Empire, another rpg from these people, appeared only from xbox ,in 2005 , I was very 
 sad because I knew that must be a good game. But now, after a lots of time, Jade Empire had come 
 back for pc gamers with a new name and a lots of new content. At least, that 's what Bioware said. But 
 it is true??? Does it deserve the waiting for Jade Empire Special Edition??? First of all, I must 
 say that the storyline is great. It's very complex, interesting, with a lots of npc-s, ones of them 
 with their own stories.
  You begin the game as a student of martial arts in Two Rivers, a little town in Jade Empire. You 
 know nothing about you ,only that you are more special for your master than others and your destiny 
 will be great. In the moment when your Master Lee has decided to tell you the truth about you, about 
 him the town is attacked and from this point the story begun. A very immersing
  story, but I prefer to let you discover it... You can choose male or female from four classes : 
 magic, fast, balanced and strong ( only male) . Each character is different from others because of three 
 attributes, each of them increasing the properties of your character: body --&gt; health, spirit -- &gt; chi 
 and mind -- &gt; focus. The chi is used for elemental attacks, for healing yourself and for increasing 
 the damage of your attacks. The focus consumes when you use your weapons or if you want to move 
 and attack very quickly. It's something like slow-motion or bullet time if you want. But those three 
 attributes influence three skills, too: intimidation, intuition and charm who help you in conversations 
 with other npc-s. From the beginning you have two styles of martial arts and once you advanced in 
 the game you learn others more powerful. There are summoning styles in which you can transform in 
 different beasts or demons ( horse demon , jade gollem etc ) , elemental styles who use chi like 
 flame or earth style , support styles who do damage only when you use chi to boost their power 
 and have different abilities like slowing, paralyzing or shocking the opponent. In these moments 
 you can initiate a harmonic combo ( like a fatality ) using a powerful strike of an attack style. Attack 
 styles are the most used and are very beautiful realized ( iron palm , legendary strike , viper 
 ) , the motions of your character being superb . The person who likes kung fu should be very pleased 
 by the game because she has what to see. Some attack styles include weapons like one sword or two 
 or axes but all styles have three types of attack: normal, powerful and area. As you can see , you 
 have a lots of styles , so you have also a lots of ways to kill the enemies. But some of them are 
 immune to some styles , so be careful. When you kill enemies and complete quests ( there are many 
 ) you gain experience and reach higher levels. In this moments , you can increase your attributes 
 and some characteristics of your martial style like speed, duration or chi damage. So , for those 
 who like dungeon and dragons universe, with a lots of variables, skills, attributes and other things 
 ,avoid jade empire because it isn't so complex. The game's sound track is absolutely superb. It 
 contains very beautiful songs with Chinese and Japanese influence. It makes you to stop advancing 
 and listen the game's sound track wich is perfect. The feeling, the atmosphere , the locations ,the 
 visual aspect of the game.... All of them are so good, so perfect ... they make the game world to 
 be so immersing, so beautiful even if the graphic engine isn't so next-gen like others of the year 
 2007. So, finally, what can I say??? The game has some bugs , some low textures ( the faces of some 
 npc-s ) but these things are completely disappearing because of feeling, storyline, atmosphere 
 , points in wich the game is shinning. I think that Jade Empire Special Edition is another superb 
 game, another good rpg made by Bioware who waits all of you to play it. So good job Bioware!!!! 
 And you ??? What you waiting for???? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nevryn
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 22, 2007 1:29 am PT
Review:  This game is definately worth playing for all RPG action fans. The storyline is up to par with 
 Bioware's history of good storylines, though it is a tad short for what I have come to expect (approx. 
 20hrs) . It has some nice plot twists that leave you saying, I should have seen that , which is 
 something I find much more entertaining than just random unforseen plot twists. It is an action 
 RPG so combat is a major part of the game. I DO NOT advise playing without a controller. Most of 
 the combat involves lots of dodging and back attacks, so a keyboard and mouse tend to be unwieldy. 
 The game is fairly stable, with only a few bugs and the music is excellent. The only gripe I have 
 is the character creation and advancement is very weak for a Bioware game, with only a few options 
 that have very little impact on your actual character. Despite this shortcoming, I definately enjoyed 
 the game, and consider it worth the time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: opuliski2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 19, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  In usual case in roleplaying games the fighter and the mage just slaughters orks in somecinda cool 
 middle-earth view. Jade Empire makes a chance and brings something new to this genre.
  
  Jade Empire makes a diffrence in that it isn't many hundred times seen west fantasy **** The incidents 
 of story places to the ancient China or thats what i think :D . The map of the game is pretty good 
 with its great empire. The map is full of all cinda interesting creatures and i specialy loved 
 demons 
::::::

::::::
UserName: necbone
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 19, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  This game should have been dope. All the people who ported this dumb-downed kungfu mod of Knights 
 of the Old Republic should be ashamed, thot bioware was better than this. Wasn't that what this 
 game was? KOTOR with kungfu and no lightsabers. I played the whole game thinking it would get better, 
 but it really didnt. The game lacks in combat complexity; it's basically a hack n slash with a 
 couple twists (click click click) ; however, at times, it did look pretty when I was clicking, PARALYZING 
 PALM FOOL!!!
  
  My main issue with this game was that it was sub-par to PC rpgs, yea, console people are alittle 
 slow, so they might not understand, but this game was like for kids or something.... I need better 
 key binding, complex combat (skills, fighting, skill tree, strategy, team control) , original story, 
 a key bind button for MAP!!!!!!! why can't I hit M to open my map?!?!?
  
  I wouldnt suggest this game to anyone unless they're like 10-13.... this game was total fail, it 
 made me feel stupid after playing..... this game cannot compete with dark messiah, nwn2, kotor1 
 and kotor2, oblivion; well, it can compete, but it will lose.....
  
  Very mad.... a couple extra months and this game should have owned... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnyb47
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 18, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Using and expanding on the already patented Bioware RPG formula, Jade Empire manages to hold its 
 own when taken as a whole, and is sure to steal away 30 hours out of your life, at least once, 
 yet not more than twice, in all probability. Once the initial excitement the game's novelty provides 
 is gone, closer scrutiny brings up a number of flaws that sadly build up over time.
  
  Much of the hype around this game is connected to the solid storytelling and well-rounded characters 
 it lets you uncover, which in most part holds true, especially when talking about your companions. 
 However, there's an uneasy balance stricken between the Asian theme and the need to cater to a 
 Western audience, which becomes immediately obvious as you progress through the first chapter, 
 and then further along the storyline. It's as if the writers intended to give a lite version of 
 an Eastern tale by throwing in a number of Japanese storytelling cliches in an otherwise standard 
 Western RPG narrative. Definitely not along the lines of Final Fantasy, it's safe to say that story-wise, 
 Jade Empire is an American's rather shallow view of what an extreme orient legend might look like.
 
  
  With this said, the actual narrative is not at all bad, even if trying to be something different 
 than it truly is. There are a lot of layered plots, of which, of course, the main story arc stands 
 out, and even manages to hold a good number of surprises, well rationed throughout the game. Unfortunately, 
 the numerous hints that it drops early on with respect to upcoming insights, give outright answers 
 instead of subtly raising questions that should serve as comebacks later, so a whole lot of the 
 game's revelations will feel anti-climatic to any half-brained mortal.
  
  On the gameplay side, your actions in Jade Empire will be divided between running around, talking 
 to people, looting and the occasional reading of an in-game scroll or book on one hand, and combat 
 on the other. To its credit, the adventure part of the game does not feel boring, or overly tedious, 
 and doesn't involve too much backtracking. On the down side, the moral choices that are central 
 to the main character's development as well as in some measure to the story's unfolding, seem to 
 be purposefully dumbed down, hurtingly obvious and almost suspect in their lack of producing side 
 effects.
  
  Combat in Jade Empire is definitely varied on paper  there is a plethora of choices to be made 
 regarding the various fighting styles to be adopted. Divided into martial, support, weapon, magic 
 (ranged) and transformation styles, they somewhat gracefully intertwine to complement one another 
 through combos, normal, power and area attacks, in order to help you readily dispose of your foes. 
 Each of these styles, as expected, have their ups and downs, with different timing, speed, reach 
 and damage, which should lead to a host of fighting tactics to be learned and made use of. In practice, 
 all of this translates to a click-fest ala Diablo 2, with the occasional style switching, dodging 
 and possibly blocking. Apart from becoming way too easy after a while, as adversaries have the 
 habit of not counterattacking if you're constantly pounding them and showing a reluctance to advance 
 towards you at a steady pace while you are fighting their brethren, this combat scheme feels more 
 often than not as some sort of chore to be done in order to advance the game.
  
  The graphics are the lowest point of the game, feeling dated all-round, without doubt due to the 
 delay of porting the game to the PC. There's basically no improvement over the Star Wars: Knights 
 of the Old Republic engine, game which at times would actually manage to impress more than Jade 
 Empire. To draw a comparison, the textures in Jade Empire often feel more bland (especially in 
 the Imperial City) , and there are significantly less pixel shader effects used. On top of that, 
 during some in-game cinematics, the animation is rather broken, or the lip movements of characters 
 are inexistent. The FMV cinematics are, on the other hand, above any critic  their only mishap 
 arguably being their use of the same blocky models as the rest of the game. Arguably , because 
 this way they manage to not break the immersion of the game by presenting the story in a different 
 format, as they frequently flow smoothly from exactly the point where the in-game engine cuts off.
 
  
  The sound and especially the voice work contributes a lot to the cinematic feel of the game, as 
 actors provide a well-stylized, believable performance, practically holding together the most important 
 parts of the game. Audio effects do an acceptable job of relaying the surrounding atmosphere, though 
 they fail at giving the impression of a crowded Imperial City due to their minimalist nature outside 
 of combat. Music in Jade Empire does, to a certain extent, fill in the blanks left by sound effects, 
 but you will in time come to ignore it altogether, as it's not really all that inspiring.
  
  All these aspects mentioned, Jade Empire holds enough incentives for at least one play-through 
 of the game, and possibly even a second on the newly-unlocked Jade Master difficulty level, to 
 find out how things turn out when making different choices. The game actually has three different 
 endings, but oddly, one of them contradicts all that the main character has stood and strived for, 
 and does not justify such a sudden change of heart at the very end of the game. After two play-throughs, 
 however, you will have explored every nook and cranny of the game, as well as sifted through the 
 possible dialogue options influencing your path through the game, so there won't be all that much 
 to come back to, except for the 2D side-scroller shoot 'em up mini-games that get unlocked with 
 each aerial mission.
  
  On the technical side, Jade Empire is mostly stable, having crashed to desktop only twice in 30 
 hours of gameplay, and checkpoint autosaves and the handiness of the quicksave button help alleviate 
 any pains associated to these crashes. In spite of this stability, there are quite a few graphics 
 glitches apparent in the game, at least on nVidia cards, such as flickering fog, or graphics driver 
 notifications regarding the lowering of card performance in order to avoid potential hardware damage 
 (on a GeForce 6600GT) .
  
  Overall, Jade Empire manages to leave a fine impression of a polished game that stands in its own 
 right among the better half of PC and console RPGs in recent memory, even if it falls short of 
 excellence due to a number of unwise story and design decisions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oni
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 18, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Jade Empire is a beautiful new role playing game for the PC from Bioware. This game is actually 
 a port from the original Xbox that came out in 2005.
  
  As a fan of Bioware I virtually played all their games. Ive never really been disappointed by 
 any of their offerings, until recently. Things have started to become a tad shaky with recent Bioware 
 games. Never Winter Nights 2 was a disappointment and in many ways so was Jade Empire. The most 
 evident thing about Jade Empire is that it feels too much like Knights of the Old Republic. From 
 the moment I started to play the game a sense of deja-vu overwhelmed me. I got that eerie sense 
 that I had done this all before, for the only thing that has changed is the games time period 
 and the setting.
  
  The presentation, from how the characters are introduced to the way conversations play out are 
 all very similar to that of the KOTOR games. If you are new to Bioware games, this wont affect 
 the player at all. The epic story line is mysterious but at times just seemed too conventional 
 as well as predictable. The story line does explore many different aspects of human emotions ranging 
 from life, love, hope and betrayal. Just like both KOTOR games you have a few choices. You can 
 follow the light path, the dark path or you can stay in the neutral Grey area. The dialogue 
 choices give you many options to explore. This gives added replay value, but if youre like me 
 and have done it all before it just seems like a chore playing through again.
  
  Jade Empires beautiful orchestral track keeps up the high standard set by previous Bioware games. 
 I loved the mystical feel and the obvious Asian influence. Im tempted to go to the Bioware Store 
 and purchase the Jade Empire Original Soundtrack. The voice acting and script is top notch, featuring 
 actors from KOTOR. The sound effects are also of a high standard that help bring the story to life. 
 The graphics are beautiful and it looks sensational on my wide screen flat panel at its native 
 resolution of 1680x1050. I could not really tell the game had been an Xbox port. So I applaud Bioware 
 for at least doing this right. The art design is superb. Taking many influences from ancient Asian 
 cultures, the games world comes alive with its fantastic art direction.
  
  I somewhat enjoyed the game play and combat system. Through out the game you learn many different 
 martial art styles from kung-fu to melee sword fighting. Even though the game provides excellent 
 Mouse + Keyboard controls, I opted to use my Xbox360 game pad for PC. Using the Xbox360 game pad 
 there is no need to configure it. Because the game controls were originally intended for a console, 
 so using the game pad seems more natural then using the keyboard. The combat system is truly simple 
 and easy to pick up. Before you know it youll be a true martial arts master. While this sounds 
 delightful, the combat system is where Jade Empire is truly lacking.
  
  While you do have the option of using different techniques throughout the game, you really only 
 need to depend on 1 or maybe 2 different styles. I would have really liked to have seen these different 
 martial arts styles play a bigger role. Every battle was just the same Wash and repeat tactic. 
 I just jump over the enemy attack, jump + attack, jump + attack until theyre defeated. It becomes 
 ridiculously easy while utilizing Jades Bullet Time feature called Focus.
  
  Jade Empire is a truly great idea for a game. The only problem is that Ive already played it  
 twice. Jade deserved better then being just another KOTOR, it deserves its own, fresh game play 
 mechanics and combat system. I do hope there is another Jade game to come. I dont hope that its 
 just another Bioware game with a different coat of paint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tidusleonart321
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 18, 2007 12:02 am PT
Review:  I play this game when it just come out for PC. man it disappointed me so bad because i compare 
 this one to the previous game of Bioware: Star Wars : Knights of Old Republic. The missing inventory 
 such as clothes, weapons, potion make the game play go down. because that is such an important 
 part for RPG game. i mean original RpG game. If i can choose to wear clothes or using potion during 
 the battle that should be good for me. But the fighting styles is really impressive. I have video 
 card FX 7900 512mb and 2gb Ram so the game run with the smooth and fight is really good in this 
 game. By anyway, I like this and hope this gonna change something for the next version .ha ha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonOtaku7
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 17, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Evening!
  
  Once again I'm here to shed light on a game and or try to explain stuff about it to get you a better 
 idea what to expect.
  
  Jade Empire: Special Edition is the PC port of the Xbox original, with only minimal diffirences.
 
  I beat the game in 2 days (17 hours total) , and while it wasn't boring, it wasn't exciting either. 
 The music pulled me close to that, but the experience itself failed. However, I still consider 
 this game to be one of those special gems that you run-through once, remember, and then put away. 
 Here's why.
  
  JADE EMPIRE
  Version : PC My playing fime (First run) : 17:35:22 (Normal Mode, STRENGTH char, good path)
  
 Number of times stuck : 0
  Number of times game BSOD-ed, froze, or otherwise abrnormally ended : 0
  Recommended for : Casual 
 gamers, KOTOR engine lovers, experience-seekers. Rent over buy.
  
  Graphics : Superb! The game runs very very well on my 3GhZ Athlon AMD 64 (2GhZ actual speed) processor 
 and oldish 9600 XT 128 MB ati card. I haven't noticed any or many fps drops at all ! Exceptions 
 include my virusbuster updating itself. 9.7 out of ten ! (bonus info :LIPSYNC! )
  
  Sounds : Your run of the mill sounds. However, the voice acting is really, really good! They don't 
 just zombie-speak, they put oomph into what they are saying. A character that is angry is likely 
 to speak on an angry tone, one that has just lost a child will of course, sound mournful. That 
 helps convey the idea of a breathing, moving world ! 7.6 out of ten!
  
  Controls : Simplicy is all I can say. Standard WASD movement, plus a few buttons here and there. 
 Five out of ten - nothing special here.
  
  Replay Value : There aren't any really major choices, but the alignment system beckons you for 
 a second playthrough. If that's not enough, you can pick character types and genders when you begin 
 a new game. Every one looks diffirent and picks diffirent martial styles to begin with. The one 
 that looks like an ogre, for instance, has slow, but brutal moves o_o. The Bruce Lee copy uses 
 rapid strikes and so on. I'd give this a seven out of ten, because they tried.
  
  Experience : This is truly unique. You do feel moved somehow when you play the game, which is good. 
 However, it never seems to even accidentally break a boundary that would amke it truly, TRULY exciting. 
 You won't be bored, for sure, but you woN't be uber-thrilled either. Seven out of ten, because 
 they tried. And I HAVE seen far, FAR worse (Diablo 2!)
  
  BAD stuff : Bugs. People report a lot of bugs, but to be honest, I have yet to come across more 
 than 2. Well, 3.. but the third I'm not sure is a bug. First being that after cutscenes, the camera 
 points straight down at the ground. Save and reload to fix that (This happened to me once in 17 
 hours of playing btw) .
  Second is the dialog bug . Between spoken dialogues, there is a 1-3 second pause before the next 
 batch of voices start playing. Simply left click after you read the subtitles to keep going. The 
 third is weird. If you die after the amulet is complete, you will have roughly half your HP left 
 and there doesn't seem to be any specific way to get your lost HP back ! Not sure if that's a bug 
 though..
  
  Engine. The engine is a rape and refurbis of KOTOR's engine. Don't beleive me?
  Who made this? Bio-ware. 
 Who made KOTOR? Bio-ware.
  Okay, more proof... escape is the options and character menu here. First tab, character, second 
 is skills, third is the amulet controls... but even the tabs are similar to KOTOR's options.
  Character's awkward movements during cutscenes and the random unintelligible speech speeches during 
 certain people's convos. Just like in KOTOR 2 with aliens that BW didn't get arsed to properly 
 voice -_-. The game DOES look wonderful, but I do wish they fixed those annoying KOTOR rapes.
  
  Unforgiving. Even on medium, the game tends to be hard if you play normally and not abuse certain.. err, 
 openings. Between battles, you can only restore your stats and thus are very vulnerable in-between. 
 Still, it is very beatable if you know what you are doing - but it will be a hard task doing so.
 
  
  
  Overall : This game is a must try once experience. It is enticing and yet evil, since it tends 
 to grip at your attention once it has you. Think of it as a drug, in game form ;-P. I definately 
 suggest atleast renting the game. I spent a good 17 hours on it and I did most of the quests avalaible 
 as well, so it's not like you'll have trouble beating the game even with time constraints. The 
 voice acting is fantastic, matches the overall feel of what's going on very well. Thus, if you 
 are looking for a treasured, but slowly forgettable experience, try this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 16, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  When I heard about this game when it originally came out I wished I had an xbox to play it on.. 
 I actually think it was one of the few games that I would of gotten an xbox over playstation 2.. 
 I had played the other bioware rpgs the knights of the old republic games and had alot of fun with 
 them.. So now I had a chance to finally play it when it came out on PC and it still holds up well.. 
 This game is based on chinese mythology but not in any historical point, just created by the developers. 
 The game is very creative with its characters and backstory to. You can definatley see the similarites 
 in parts of this game with knights of the old republic.. Both have tons of interesting and well 
 written dialouge, both have a dark path and a light path to follow and have alot of characters 
 to add to your group. The graphics on this game while not cutting edge are very pleasing to the 
 eye and in some spots are beautiful. The sound effects music and voice acting are all mostly very 
 well done.. cept for the ogres voice.. eh couldnt stand that one.. lol The gameplay does fall a 
 little short on this game by that it is a very easy game once you know what your doing.. Most of 
 the combat is somewhat unbalanced and almost all enemies you fight can be easily killed. Some people 
 might be turned off by the amount of time you spend talking to characters but it didnt bother me 
 much. Most of this game is very linear to without many different directions to choose from but 
 i think it made the game flow better. Overall if you like other bioware games you should like this 
 one and even if you havent played them this game is worth trying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andruxandd
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 15, 2007 4:38 am PT
Review:  Great game, the music is awesome and fits the game and the story is super-great, like you are in 
 a movie and play with super-hero. My heart beat always when a challenge is come to start and music 
 is very great as well. From to many time never found and play a game like this, make me concentrate 
 to play non-stop. Jade empire is more then a game, more then a combat , is a adventure who give 
 me a great satisfaction, a atmospheric game with more susrprises and more exciting. First time 
 when play Jade Empire i be amazed at what was great effects and such a storyline game. This game 
 will remain in my heart as one of the greatest games ever made and played by me... and yes, i play 
 more, more... much more, all genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yurik
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 14, 2007 11:21 pm PT
Review:  Rewind four years to 2003. Youre BioWare, and not only are you already famous for the Baldurs 
 Gate series of role-playing games (RPGs) for PC, but you have also just cranked out the Xbox and 
 PC versions of Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic. In addition to featuring some of the most 
 cleverly concealed D&amp; D-based combat gameplay, KOTOR also happens to be easily the best use 
 of the Star Wars license in years  including the recently released canonical films themselves!
 
  
  If youre BioWare at the end of 03, you must be feeling on top of the world. So, what do you do 
 now, other than go to Disneyland? Do you milk the KOTOR franchise for all its worth, or do you 
 develop and all-new engine and develop an all-new kind of RPG thats going to make the Star Wars 
 efforts archaic by comparison?
  
  The answer, of course, is somewhere in between. A sequel was quickly released with the same engine, 
 but by Obsidian and not BioWare. Meanwhile, BioWares next effort was to be Jade Empire, an martial-arts 
 action RPG that, by the looks of things, could be a huge departure from KOTOR. Set in a fantasy 
 universe obviously based on ancient China, Jade Empire is deliciously unconstrained by the charming 
 but now-staid restraints of the Star Wars license. Not forced by convention to feature vacuum-cleaner-resembling 
 robots that have bad feelings about this or sense disturbances in the Force, Jade lets loose 
 within its wholly original universe and even makes use of its Mature rating.
  
  The plot in Jade Empire is clever, but they way it is told is simply superlative  and, I submit, 
 better than in KOTOR, which is no mean feat. The story starts predictably enough; you are an elite 
 student in an obscure martial arts school, and you are compelled to travel the world in search 
 of your teacher Master Li when he is violently kidnapped by unknown evil forces. The trip ends 
 equally predictably  with a series of epic confrontations. What lies in between is much interaction 
 with simply some of the best characters, major or minor, Ive dealt with in any RPG, American or 
 Japanese. Jade Empire is a serious game, but it also features some of the most natural and funny, 
 yet remarkably literate, dialogue in any video game to date. Even most non-player characters (NPCs) 
 strewn about the various towns have well-defined personalities and back stories that make speaking 
 with them continuously engaging.
  
  Suffice it to say that if you are a PC gamer looking for an excellent story-driven RPG, this is 
 your game. As Jade Empire is finally ported from its Xbox version (much like both Star Wars RPGs 
 before it) , you now have a chance to experience one of the finest stories in years. Other than 
 the story, though, is this really a huge departure from Knights of the Old Republic, and, if so, 
 is it fun to play? Read on.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  At the beginning of the game, you will be presented with a character creation screen. Visually, 
 you may only use one of a handful of predefined characters, each assigned a general trait like 
 fast or strong or magic user; each character has a unique and impressive look to him or her 
  especially, dare I say, the females. Both male and female characters are available, and this 
 affects many dialogue and story choices in the game. Pick a character, apply some (simplistic) 
 initial stat customizations, and you will be dropped straight into a fight after clicking OK. Your 
 adventure begins here.
  
  For a role-playing game, there just isnt that much to the gameplay in Jade Empire, though there 
 is certainly a surplus of story. It is an action role-playing game, so it has a very pronounced 
 real-time, real-space feel to it. This makes a lot of sense for a game centered on martial arts. 
 The basic attack and the power attack are triggered by the two mouse buttons, respectively; the 
 basic attack can be blocked by pressing space (gamepads are also supported) . These three actions 
 are a slightly more timing-based version of rock-paper-scissors. Damage can also be easily avoided 
 by making acrobatic leaps through the air. There is a bit more to the hand-to-hand fighting engine, 
 but, ultimately, it amounts to left-clicking a great deal and jumping all over the combat area 
 to avoid being hit. While a bit repetitive, its certainly twitchy enough to make it a more actively 
 involving experience than the typical turn-based or hack-and-slash RPG.
  
  To round out the combat a bit, Jade Empire adds the requisite style (ability) , follower (party) , 
 and amulet (equipment) systems. None of these is groundbreaking or particularly interesting. The 
 player can fight in only one style at any given time. The close-combat styles allow for direct 
 damage, status damaging attacks (such as poisoning or slowing the opponent) , wielding weapons, 
 or draining enemies of energy to refill ones own Focus or Chi gauges. Focus and/or Chi are expended 
 for anything other than basic martial attacks.
  
  Jade Empires stripped down party system allows for exactly one follower to accompany the main 
 character. As you progress through the game, you will gain these helpful companions whose abilities 
 are as varied as their personalities. For instance, Henpecked Hous attack consists of throwing 
 wine bottles onto the battleground, where you can pick them up in order to enable the powerful 
 Drunken Master martial style. Meanwhile, Moon Flower is a little girl that turns into a powerful 
 demon that does mega damage. Regardless of the character, I found the followers are far more effective 
 at support (by enhancing abilities or refilling Focus or Chi) than at actual fighting. At any rate, 
 followers are entirely autonomous and cannot be controlled (beyond picking attack or support mode) 
 or leveled up.
  
  Fast-paced as it may be, the fighting in Empire is not exactly cerebral, so the D&amp; D or Final 
 Fantasy geeks (guilty of the latter!) wont find stat nirvana here. That said, at least its original. 
 By contrast, everything having to do with dialogue or quests is lifted directly from KOTOR. Replace 
 the Sith with the Way of the Closed Fist, the Jedi with Way of the Open Palm, streamline the 
 dialogue options a bit, surgically excise and burn KOTORs tumor-like outgrowth of quest-related 
 bugs, and youve got the derivative but solid story engine of Jade Empire. Its a good thing BioWare 
 has perfected this aspect of its gameplay, because city exploration, quest management, and talking 
 occupy by far more time than combat. The dialogue is as brief or as involved as you want it to 
 be; the quest journal is crystal-clear in its organization; and the quests are plot-pertinent yet 
 numerous. Personally, I had a blast with this games quests and dialogue portions just as I did 
 with KOTORs  sure, its more of the same, but its improved even further, and its not like any 
 other game does it nearly as well.
  
  SOUND
  
  As game production values go, most people  me included  put much more stock into the visuals 
 than the sounds. In this game, however, Id say the two are equally important. After all, well 
 over half your time playing the game will have you watching characters speak  not the most filling 
 visual feast, that  in lengthy dialogue exchanges. This is precisely where Jade Empire shines 
 like no other game. As in the two Star Wars before it, these folks have put together a completely 
 ridiculous amount of voice work. Nevertheless, not only are the actors performances uniformly 
 excellent, the script work is also simply second to none. The serious stuff is serious  but never 
 cheesy  while the funny stuff is funny. Really funny. Hint: Watch for the John Cleese extended 
 cameo in the middle of the game.
  
  I could nit-pick the sound work if I really wanted to. Sure, the score is competent but not exactly 
 memorable, and there are far too many different non-player characters  all voiced  for the cast 
 to handle individually. You know what, though? That is nit-picking. The voice work here is simply 
 too much a home run to not give Jade Empire an excellent score.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Just as Jade Empire tries to squeeze a great deal of incident and plot progression into each locale 
 in the game  and there arent many of those  so does it try to make each environment as memorable 
 as possible. It succeeds stylistically, but not technically. The outdoor areas in Jade are quite 
 beautiful. In fact, the postcard-pretty initial village of Two Rivers is only the tip of the proverbial 
 iceberg, as some of the later areas push the envelope considerably in terms of sheer beauty. The 
 town of Tiens Landing, for example, while described as a backwater location, is still almost surreally 
 stunning as its bathed in soft sunlight at perpetual dusk and backed by tall mountains. Even the 
 glummer areas, like the dark forest at Tien Landings doorstep, are somehow effective as they can 
 suddenly lead into places of truly seductive beauty. Whats more, all this seems quite fitting 
 to the games theme. No, China isnt the only place that has beautiful sunsets or tall trees, but 
 this game nicely exploits similar images of the Orient that have already been ingrained in us through 
 films like Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon.
  
  The game also has a visual style of its own when it comes to characters. The lighting gives the 
 characters  especially the main character  a very original look as if softly glowing from within. 
 Sounds strange, I know, but its really quite a neat effect  one that Ill take over the plastic 
 shine of F. E. A. R. Unfortunately, the games camera is permanently locked behind the player character, 
 making it impossible to look at the characters front during exploration and combat. This is a 
 strange oversight, as the two Star Wars games had no such problem.
  
  Unfortunately, Jade Empires Xbox origins place limitations on the games engine that ultimately 
 make the visuals a missed opportunity on PC. No, Im not necessarily looking for the latest buzzwords 
 like HDR and normal mapping. Tomb Raider: Legend, for example, does an admirable job visually even 
 without its next-gen bells and whistles enabled, and it does so by making use of its limited techniques 
 in the most immersive way possible. Jade does not do this. Skies, while beautiful, dont animate, 
 and weather conditions  while impressively drawn  are also totally static. Trying not to sound 
 like a techno-snob, Ill note that the body animations are distractingly wooden (why dont RPGs 
 use motion-capture?) , and most of the areas just lack visual pop. Jade Empire has some emotion-dependent 
 facial animation magic, but this always looks rather subdued and quite unnatural. We didnt complain 
 about things like that just a few years ago, but the bar has been raised by Titan Quest and Oblivion 
 since then. Stylistically impressive as it is  far more original and beautiful than KOTOR, in 
 fact  Jade Empire nevertheless does look like a high-resolution version of an extremely beautiful 
 last-generation console game.
  
  The good news is it runs like a dream most of the time, only hitching a bit each time a particularly 
 populated fight begins, which can be easily dismissed in an RPG. The game visually scores with 
 me just for that reason alone.
  
  VALUE / OVERALL
  
  By role-playing game standards, Jade Empire is not long, though its not insultingly short, either. 
 The Jade Empire may be a vast place, but your travels will only take you through a handful of locations 
 within the fictional nation. Though each location is explored in much detail, the game does still 
 feel abbreviated as compared to epics like Oblivion or even more linear RPGs like Final Fantasy 
 X. I did every quest I could find and topped out at 33 hours. In terms of gameplay, theres not 
 much pull for added replays of this title, given that most, if not all, side quests can be easily 
 done in the first pass, and the character customization options are not really at all varied. Therefore, 
 even if you feel like replaying the game to see a different ending, you may enjoy the different 
 dialogue and quest events, but the combat and exploration will remain largely the same. Moreover, 
 the branching points for the multiple endings are near the finale, so a strategic save/reload will 
 eliminate the need for whole replays.
  
  The final score for Jade Empire: Special Edition probably isnt a huge surprise to those familiar 
 with the two-year-old Xbox game. It was well-rated but a major disappointment as a follow-up to 
 BioWares critical hit Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic. Now, things are not much different 
 for this PC version. Knights was a great RPG (with a not-so-great sequel by Obsidian) , and Jade 
 Empire is quite similar to it, but with the bugs gone and an even more compelling story. That said, 
 the only other risk Jade takes over its PC predecessors  its original action/role-playing combat 
 engine  is not much of a draw. On the strength of its technical graphics and gameplay, Jade does 
 not deserve much more than a 7.5. However, its poignant sense of style and amazing story presentation 
 should make it a hit with PC gamers that have longed for an excellent story-based RPG ever since 
 BioWares last PC effort. Just dont expect a truly open-ended  or particularly involved  experience.
 
  
  (Side note: At E3, I was told that Jade Empire features a morally ambiguous storyline. Perhaps, 
 but this is another BioWare RPG that tantalizingly offers that good or evil is a point of view 
 and that selflessly helping others is not always the right solution for the worlds problems. At 
 least, thats what were told at the games outset. It then proceeds to make the Closed Fist quest 
 choices unbearably jerk-like and contrarian (Ill just kill you, etc.) , while the Light Side 
 path is paved with grateful people and nice rewards. In other words, this title talks the moral 
 ambiguity talk, but doesnt really walk the walk. Moral gray areas are yet again promised by BioWare 
 for their upcoming sci-fi Xbox 360 system seller Mass Effect; lets hope they actually push the 
 envelope this time.) Pros/cons:
  
  + An original universe full of magic, swords, animal demons, and kung-fu.
  + Huge, dramatic, 
 and often funny script with dead-on voice-overs.
  + Stylistically beautiful character designs and environments.
  + Good frame rates.
   Action 
 combat is simplistic, clicking-heavy, and unsatisfying.
   Characters move unnaturally; could use a few more polygons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tjshadyluvr
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 14, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  This game was great. Yeah it has a lot of dialog but it is relevant to the situation. I already 
 beat the game in the closed fist and going again for open palm, also to get some stuff i missed 
 in the beginning. Its very addicting, graphics are amazing. All I can say that could have been 
 better would be more combos on the attacks. Its also nice that you can have some one by your side 
 to help you on your path. I also liked how they give you the option to use a controller. There 
 is always something for you to do. You never get bored in your progress to the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flashtek
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 12, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  This is a beautiful, great story and graphics. The only draw back to the game is play time. From 
 start to finish and doing the side missions it took 23 hours to beat. Solid RPG reminds me of SWKOTOR. 
 Good expandability with martial art skills and styles. The weapons selection could have had more 
 choices and upgrades. This could have been a much larger world with either tougher side quests 
 and or a longer story. But the biggest iss was the camera angles, it could have been like NWN rather 
 than the static 3rd person view. I will not sway you from not buying this game because it is fun, 
 hopefully they add to it and soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 10, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Jade empire came out on the xbox a few years ago and was great. Jade empire special edition adds 
 many new features and fighting styles. If you have played KOTOR ( made by same company) you will 
 enjoy this game becasue they are very similiar. You can pick from 6 our so charcters to begin your 
 journey thro the Jade Empire which has been corrupted buy ghosts and a terrbiel goverment run by 
 a corrupt emperor and assasins. You gain level as you progress and learn new fighting styles. You 
 can buy new weapons and and gems. Gems are buffs that make your charcter stronger in magic, strength 
 our Mind. Graphics are very nice and a medium strength computer can run them on high with very little 
 lag. Sounds is good there is a varition of chinese music and voice acting is high quality. The game 
 is 39.99 and comes with the PC-DVD a cool poster and a art book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: szabig
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 10, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  The game is ok I have already beat it after 11 hours gameplay so dont expect too much . It is actually 
 a preety nice fighting game with frustraingly boring dialogs and boring characters but the fighting 
 part is preety fun if you manage to survive the dialogs.-Its an RPG but i would say its an action 
 advanture just beatn up everybody. The cool thing is that you get to fight with all kind of bosses 
 although i killed zhe final boss in like 30seconds LOL!
  I would recommend not to buy it since you finish it once then you can throw it out of your window 
 xd.
  HAVE FUN!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 7, 2007 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Jade Empire: Special Edition is the PC Version of the award winning Xbox game that came out in 
 2005. The new version includes much better graphics, more options in game, and a few cool extras 
 inside the box. GAMEPLAY
  
  JE plays like Kotor with a very kung fu and epic style instead of lightsabers and a galaxy like 
 Star Wars. The story is not your run-of-the-mill plot because of crazy twists that players dont 
 expect and if you watch the cinemas you can really get into the game. Combat is fairly simple with 
 a few keys configured to buttons like quick attack, power attack, and a Chi Charge for extra damage. 
 The simple ness of the combat system does help but after the first few hours it just feels like 
 button mashing instead of challenging fighting combat. If you explore in JE and find some nice 
 secrets you will be rewarded will special skills and technique that can really help you character. 
 Speaking of your character, skills and leveling is nicely formatted but customization of looks 
 and gear is very limited with your avatar looking mostly the same throughout the whole game. Companions 
 in the game are in a way more useful than in KoTOR due to their extra skills in support such as 
 health regeneration or more powerful attacks with a certain companion present.
  
  SOUND
  
  Voice acting in the game is very believable but some of the action and fighting sounds arent 
 anything to marvel at.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Jade Empire looks a whole lot better compared to its XBOX Version but some settings like Soft Shadows 
 and Frame Buffer Effects can make your frames per second chug at times such as pretty cut scenes 
 and explosive combat events.
  
  VALUE
  
  Jade Empire is a nice upgrade from the Xbox version but you may want to wait until the prices go 
 down to purchase and get your money out of the 15-20 hours of gameplay.
  
  IN THE END
  
  Jade Empire is a great KOTOR like RPG that expands on BioWares reputation and is worth picking 
 up with an enticing story and intense gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thunder350
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 5, 2007 10:58 pm PT
Review:  Its a good game, graphics are good. Some small bugs in the game, but noting bad. The game from 
 beginning to end will be noting then you reading through very bad dialog and choosing a action 
 you want. And then running around on petty task. The story line however is great, and you can choose 
 how the game plays out from beginning to end much like Star Wars: Knights Of The Old Republic. 
 But when battles start all you do is click your mouse until your enemy is dead. This all replays 
 itself over and over until the end of the game. The music and Voices in the game is great. And 
 the in-game movies are of good quality. I would recommend this to anyone who wants something to 
 do in their free time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redangelus
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 5, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Jade Empire is probably the best game i played in the last couple of months. It follows on the 
 foot steps of K. O. T. O. R being similar in may ways (good and evil actions, game play, party) but 
 brings some new elements like fighting stiles that are original in a way. The fighting is not that 
 fun beeing linear and pretty easy. The quest are well done, both main and secondary but the game 
 is very short ... for fanatic gamers (like me ) less than 11 hours of play. The small games are 
 fun but not that well done. At some points tha game tends to get boring but after a while in regains 
 the it's fun. There are various types of characters but they only differ by the starting fight 
 style and the dominant attribute. The story is very good and has original elements. The game holds 
 secrets (fighting styles, techniques, secret items) that make it even more interesting but you lose 
 interest in secrets after a while. A good game that could have used a little more attention on 
 some elements but a good game overall. A game filled with great and original elements, worth playing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghost4life_2007
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 3, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  Jade Empire - Special Edition is a game that's worth at least giving it a try, even if you're not 
 that fond of the genre. The game has some excellent graphics, and no one can say otherwise; I mean 
 c'mon, let's admit, you can't say the graphs aren't at least pleasant. It's quite better than any 
 other game of the genre at the moment, and believe me, I am an RPG fan, and I'm testing every RPG 
 game that appears, even if it doesn't look interesting; as I said before....... every game is worth 
 giving it a try. Jade Empire, I think, has an extremely well made storyline. It is intriguing and 
 keeps the player focused to see what happens next. The gameplay is enjoyable , not the greatest 
 you'll ever see, but you can't ask for miracles. The controls are quite simple, easy to use, and 
 makes it easier to play the game. The numerous fighting styles and customizations are a fun factor. 
 It's simply enjoying to play. The sound is !!! AWESOME!!!. Excellent voices, effects and environmental 
 sounds. You simply can't get any better. The system requirements are very good. Little to give, 
 a lot to receive. If you play it regularly, it can grow on you; it can be addictive. You can reach 
 a stage when you can't let it go, and it's better not to get that far. Perfect for spending you 
 time, having fun and explore. Probably a sequel to this will become a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grey-flood
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 2, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Overview
  
  Jade Empire is based in a mythical setting inspired by ancient China, and allows the player to 
 progress through an adventure based on traditional martial arts. As the character (who can be either 
 male or female) progresses through the game, he is able to discover and develop new fighting styles 
 (either martial arts, weapon styles, magic styles, support styles or transformation styles) . During 
 combat the player can switch between styles by hitting a pre-assigned direction on the D-Pad. Combat 
 is not turn-based, but gives the player the ability to control how and when his character dodges 
 or attacks.
  
  The traditional RPG stats do not feature in this game; instead, they are replaced with just three: 
 Body, Mind, and Spirit. These primary stats control the secondary stats of Health, Focus, and Chi 
 (respectively) , and the conversation skills of Charm, Intuition, and Intimidation. Focus is used 
 by fighting with weapon styles (such as a longsword or a staff) or by choosing focus mode , which 
 slows the movements of other characters, allowing the player to attack at high speeds. Chi is a 
 character's spirit energy. The player can use it to heal himself, to charge up a powerful chi strike 
 to deal large damage, or to use it as mana when casting spells or transformations. Health, focus, 
 and chi can be replenished by collecting power-ups left by defeated enemies in combat or by using 
 Focus Shrines and Spirit Founts found in the game world. Additionally, certain party members have 
 the ability to add their power to yoursrefilling your stats while they remain out of harm's way.
 
  
  Certain aspects of Jade Empire's gameplay engine, dialogue and quest systems are handled in a way 
 that is very similar to BioWare's Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic games for the Xbox and 
 PC. Players can speak to NPCs in the game's towns (and other areas) , asking questions for information 
 to learn more about the world, the storyline, and other characters. Many of these NPCs will offer 
 the player side quests that can be completed for experience points and items. These quests often 
 have more than one method of completion depending on whether the player chooses to follow a High 
 path (in the game referred to as The Way of the Open Palm) or a Low path (The Way of the Closed 
 Fist) . The player can respond to questions or take courses of action that are consistent with the 
 philosophy he or she follows; different actions will affect a character's alignment and his ability 
 to cast certain spells or equip certain items.
  
  There is also a vertical-scrolling airplane shooter included in Jade Empire as a mini-game, which 
 is triggered by certain events in the storyline. In the mini-game, only the chi and focus bars 
 are active. Chi is replenished by shooting enemies, and is used for special attacks specific to 
 the mini-game. The yellow focus spheres will upgrade your primary cannon up to three times.
  
  Jade Empire also features the constructed language Tho Fan developed by Wolf Wikeley, a Ph. D. 
 candidate in linguistics at the University of Alberta.
  Philosophies
  
  Much of the game places a certain amount of emphasis on the two major philosophies in the world 
 of the Jade Empire, the Way of the Open Palm and the Way of the Closed Fist. While these can easily 
 be equated to a Light Path and Dark Path , one who follows the Way of the Open Palm is not necessarily 
 good, and one who follows the Way of the Closed Fist is not necessarily evil. Context plays a huge 
 part in the way these philosophies act out, so it is indeed a hard task to generalise what either 
 path means all the time.
  
  The Way of the Open Palm basically states that the key to maintaining the universe is by being 
 in harmony with nature, one's surroundings, and one's station in life. As an effect of being in 
 nature with one's surroundings, one is expected to actively assist in lessening the chaos in the 
 area, through the assistance of lessening burdens. While this seems Peaceful , the Way of the Open 
 Palm is strict in another form: one should not act outside their station and purpose in life. This 
 in turn, can lead to the low path of the Way of the Open Palm.
  
  Looking at the aforementioned example, in the case of a person with a gambling debt, an evil follower 
 of the Way of the Open Palm, judging that the debtor attempted to act outside of his station and 
 thus violated the harmony of the universe, may give the debtor the money - in the form of a gamble 
 the Open Palm follower rigged so the debtor would win. While this seems to have helped out the 
 debtor, it has in fact perpetuated the debtor's gambling problem, only dooming the person to wind 
 up in the same situation again - perhaps even worse next time. The debtor is thus unable to act 
 above his situation, whilst the short-term effects around him contribute to harmony.
  
  On the other hand, the Way of the Closed Fist follows the philosophy that the purpose of life is 
 to follow the ways of serving oneself - to face one's challenges head on, challenge one's station 
 in life, and work to become self-reliant. The emphasis of the Way of the Closed Fist is combat, 
 turmoil, and constantly challenging oneself, which is why many of those who are evil tend to be 
 considered to follow the Way of the Closed Fist, in that they bring about chaos in the universe. 
 However, such people can no more be classed as true followers of the Way of the Closed Fist than 
 common thieves can be classed as revolutionaries.
  
  Using the same example as shown before, a good follower of the Way of the Closed Fist would indeed 
 inform the debtor's collectors where the debtor is hiding, but from the point of view of the follower, 
 this is hardly a betrayal. Following the beliefs of the Closed Fist, it would be meaningless for 
 the debtor to get out of the situation through someone else's help - instead, forcing him into 
 a position wherein he is forced to deal with his problems directly allows him to grow, and thus 
 become stronger than he would have been otherwise.
  
  The more extreme variant of this, usually used by the ones who use the Way of the Closed Fist to 
 justify slaughter, would be to kill the debtor oneself, then take the money the debtor had. The 
 claim therein would be along the lines of if the debtor was not strong enough to survive me, he 
 didn't deserve to live. However, this is not truly following the Way of the Closed Fist, rather 
 simply contributing to chaos for one's own benefit.
  
  Many solutions that are resolved using the philosophy of the Way of the Closed Fist could be considered 
 to have much in common with Social Darwinism where Darwin's theory of Survival of the Fittest is 
 applied to humans. For example, you come across a slave and her slave master. A follower of the 
 Way of the Closed Fist would make the slave fight for her freedom against the slave master so the 
 strongest person wins.
  Plot
  Spoiler warning: Plot and/or ending details follow.
  
  Introduction
  
  The game casts you as a martial arts student under the tutelage of Master Li, 
 head of the Two Rivers martial arts school. The name of this student is determined by your choice 
 of character at the beginning of the game. The sex of the character the player chooses affects 
 the romance options, (see the 'Romance' section below) but the storyline remains the same. The 
 player can decide to follow the path of the Open Palm or Closed Fist as the game progresses, but 
 no matter which path is chosen throughout the game the player may choose from the Open Palm or 
 Closed Fist ending at the game's conclusion.
  
  Chapter 1: Two Rivers
  
  The student's training is rudely interrupted as the town of Two Rivers comes under attack from 
 an aggressor in a strange ship, who summons ghosts to attack the student. The attacker is defeated 
 by Master Li who comes to the students' rescue, and reveals that the attacker was a member of the 
 Lotus Assassins, a mysterious cult serving the Emperor of the Jade Empire. Gao the Lesser, a rival 
 of the student, issues a challenge for a duel and loses. He is expelled from the school after he 
 attempts to use explicitly forbidden magic on the student. Master Li explains that the student 
 is the last of an order of Spirit Monks. He, a brother of the Emperor and leader of the army, had 
 ordered an attack on Dirge, where the Spirt Monks' temple existed, in order to end the drought. 
 He claimed to have opposed the act and to have saved the student and the Dragon's Amulet.
  
  He sends the student down to a cave beneath the school where he finds part of a Spirit Monk 
 amulet and has a vision of the Water Dragon, the entity whose death at the hands of the Emperor 
 ended the decade-long Long Drought but left spirits roaming the land. Dawn Star, one of the students 
 at the school and a friend of the player, is kidnapped by Gao The Lesser. The student rescues her 
 but returns to find the village in flames, and Master Li kidnapped. The student, Dawn Star, and 
 Sagacious Zu, a man whom they had met in the swamps around the village, head off in a borrowed 
 flying machine towards the Imperial City, where Master Li has been taken.
  
  Chapter 2: Tien's Landing
  
  The party crash-lands their machine in Tien's Landing, and set 
 out to find you a new flyer and a wind map that will show them the way to the Imperial City. The 
 flyer, the Magnificent Dragonfly, is taken from the base of Gao the Greater, the father of the 
 dead student of the first chapter. Gao the Greater is working with Grand Inquisitor Jia's elite 
 subordinate, Inquisitor Lim, and is distressed to hear of his son's death. The player tracks down 
 and kills him, and recruits Sky, a rogue, and Kang The Mad, Gao's personal engineer.
  
  The party goes to a recently drained area near Tien's Landing, which flooded when the dam was first 
 constructed. The Lotus Assassins opened the dam in order to search the ruins of the old Tien's 
 Landing, covered by the flood. The student fights Chai Ka, a demon bound in the body of a little 
 girl, and learns that Chai Kai was sent to protect the student and that the Lotus Assassins already 
 have the amulet. The player then can close the dam or destroy the controls, keeping it open forever.
 
  
  The student then heads to the Great Southern Forest, under the ownership of Lord Yun, and has the 
 option of helping the Forest Shadow defeat a demon known as the Mother, or helping the Mother's 
 cannibalistic demons destroy the Forest Shadow. In either event, the player can convince Lord Yun 
 that the forest is recovering, and get his wind map. Inquisitor Lim will ambushes the player at 
 this point; the player kills him and recovers a piece of the amulet.
  
  Chapter 3: Imperial City
  
  The party lands in Imperial City and meet up with Silk Fox, who 
 is revealed to be Princess Lian the Heavenly Lily, daughter of the Emperor. She is unconvinced 
 that her father is behind the sickness the plagues the land, and believes that Death's Hand, the 
 black armor-clad head of the Lotus Assassins, is responsible. After joining either the Executioners 
 or the Inquisitors, the student's party infiltrates the Lotus Assassin's training ground to recover 
 the last part of the Spirit Monk amulet. Sagacious Zu reveals that he was one of the Lotus Assassins 
 who killed Master Li's family. During their quest, the party helps Master Gang assassinate his 
 superior, Master Shin, making it look like an accident, and puts a corrupted Spirit Shard into 
 a Jade Golem, causing it to go out of control. The golems go out of control, damaging the underground 
 complex. The party kills Master Gang. They also find Grand Inquisitor Jia, who reveals that the 
 Emperor knew about what Death's Hand and the Lotus Assassins were doing, and ordered them to do 
 it. The player kills her, but Death's Hand arrives. Sagacious Zu sacrifices himself to save the 
 student, burying Death's Hand in rubble.
  
  Chapter 4: Imperial Palace
  
  The party fights their way to the Emperor's throne-room where Silk Fox learns of what her father 
 has done. He is aware that the Water Dragon's death is stopping the dead from reaching the underworld 
 but is mad with power. The Emperor knocks down all the people in the throne room with a blast of 
 magic and summons guards to attack the student, who defeats them. The student battles the Emperor, 
 who is able to alternate fighting styles and damage immunities. The student kills the Emperor, 
 but Master Li gets up, takes the Jade Heart for himself, and kills the student.
  
  Chapter 5: Spirit Monk Temple
  
  The student wakes up in the underworld as a spirit. The Water 
 Dragon reveals that Sun Li had planned this all along, as he wished for the Water Dragon's power 
 and needed the amulet and to defeat Emperor Sun Hai. The student meets up with the spirit of Abbot 
 Song, who tells him what truly happened at Dirge. He reveals that Sun Li wore Death's Hand's armor 
 and killed the abbot when he tried to stop him and his brothers. The brothers defiled the fountains 
 with human blood, weakening the Water Dragon, and Emperor Sun Hai killed Sun Kin when he and Sun 
 Li attempted to oppose him. Abbot Song then reveals that one of his order attempted to escape with 
 the student, but Sun Li, who had escaped from Sun Hai, killed the student's guardian and assumed 
 his identity. The player and Abbot Song make their way through Dirge and learn that an evil being 
 has taken control after the fall of the temple. The student reaches the place where the Water Dragon 
 was slain, and defeats aspects of his darker emotions. The student then returns to life, and the 
 rest of the party, who learns about this through Dawn Star, flies to Dirge to reunite with their 
 friend.
  
  Chapter 6: Defending the Temple
  
  While the student was dead, Sun Li realized that action would have to be taken against him, and 
 retrieved Death's Hand from the rubble of the Lotus Assassin headquarters. He then sends the Imperial 
 Army against Dirge. Sky pretends to betray the group, and lures Death's Hand out so that the student 
 can defeat him in single combat. However, this is not enough to defeat him; Death's Hand rises 
 again, but the student uses the force of his will to expel Sun Li's influence. The player may then 
 release Death's Hand, use him as a slave, or convince him to seek redemption.
  
  Chapter 7: Back to the Palace
  
  The party flies back to the palace to confront the Emperor. 
 As they make their way through the palace they discover that the Emperor had stopped the drought 
 by cutting open the Water Dragon's corpse and letting the water that flows from it feed the Empire. 
 The student chooses either to destroy the Water Dragon's body, thus freeing her spirit and allowing 
 the dead to find the underworld, or defiling the water to weaken the Dragon and claim her power 
 after defeating the Emperor.
  
  The student reaches Emperor Sun Li, who first sends Constructs of Bull and Elephant demons, the 
 most powerful in the game, after the player and his companion. Sun Li then encases the student 
 in stone and attempts to defeat the player with the force of his own doubt. However, if the student's 
 companions survived, they will reduce the number of enemies that must be fought in each of the 
 two stages. Sagacious Zu appears and helps free the student from his mind.
  
  Emperor Sun Li offers to help his student live in legend forever, if he dies without fighting. 
 If the player makes this decision, the student is remembered as a hero for knowing his place, as 
 Sun Li looks on and laughs. If the player does not, Sun Li attacks, and the student defeats him.
 
  Endings
  Spoiler warning: Plot and/or ending details follow.
  
  If the student chooses to free the Water Dragon's spirit, then the end sequence shows the people 
 of the Jade Empire cheering the student and their party. If the student chooses to enslave the 
 Water Dragon, the end sequence shows the Lotus Assassins kneeling at the feet of the student. After 
 this end sequence, there are short text summaries detailing the fate of any characters who survived 
 the adventure. These vary depending upon whether or not the student chose to enslave or free the 
 Water Dragon, and also what romance options the student pursued.
  
  Dawn Star: She either settles down with the student, settles down on her own, rules the empire 
 with the student, or if the student talked her into a Closed Fist philosophy and abandoned her, 
 wanders the Jade Empire alone.
  
  Silk Fox: If the student does not romance Silk Fox, she will become Empress of the Jade Empire. 
 If the student does romance Silk Fox and the student is male, the student and Silk Fox will rule 
 the empire fairly, or with an iron fist. If the student is female, Silk Fox will either rule the 
 empire fairly with her 'companion', or will again rule with an iron fist, both the student and 
 Silk Fox dressing up in the Silk Fox costume to silence dissenters.
  
  Sky: Sky will use the Guild for good purposes, or serve as the student's consort or as the new 
 Death's Hand. If the student is female and romances with Sky, they leave the imperial city and 
 live on the outskirts of Tien's Landing.
  
  Black Whirlwind: Black Whirlwind will roam the empire cutting off heads, eventually making his 
 way around the world.
  
  Henpecked Hou: After a series of mishaps, he starts a delivery business, which he immediately uses 
 as a method of escaping his overbearing wife.
  
  Chai Ka: Chai Ka will either return to the heavens, freeing the girl whose body he inhabits to 
 live her life. Or the girl will end up wandering the empire as a raving lunatic.
  
  Ya Zhen: Ya Zhen will either serve the student until he or she passes away resulting in him moving 
 to bigger plans or serve the student forever and loyally.
  
  Death's Hand: Death's Hand will either become more evil, mutating so badly that his armor cannot 
 hold his demonic form, or he will spend the rest of his days wandering the empire as a crusader 
 for good, in order to make up for his past misdeeds.
  
  Kang the Mad: Kang will continue to invent machines until an explosion appears to take his life, 
 although strange machines continue to appear every now and then. Or as Lord Lao, Kang's lack of 
 danger affects his imagination in building machines, so as a radical solution, Kang starts arming 
 the mobs that are after him.
  
  A third, alternate ending is available if the Student agrees to the terms of surrender presented 
 by the main antagonist in the final confrontation. The ending sequence features a statue of the 
 Student being praised assumedly years later by a class of children with a skin condition similar 
 to that of the Lotus Assassins. One child asks what life was like before the protagonist's honored 
 sacrifice and is quickly shushed by his teacher as a Jade Golem readies an axe to quell such questioning. 
 The sequence ends with the main antagonist laughing evilly.
  Romance
  Spoiler warning: Plot and/or ending details follow.
  
  Jade Empire gives the player-character 
 the option to form a romantic relationship with a number of the non-player characters, including 
 characters of the same sex. Successfully romancing a character results in them standing outside 
 your tent on the eve of the battle against the golems, whereupon, unless you choose to reject them, 
 your character and the NPC will lean in to kiss (although if the character is of the same sex, 
 the camera will pan away before the actual kiss itself) . Male characters can romance Dawn Star, 
 Silk Fox or Sky. Female characters can romance Sky or Silk Fox. Male characters can also romance 
 both Dawn Star and Silk Fox at the same time. If this is the case, the cutscene and dialog at the 
 tent implies that Dawn Star and Silk Fox spent some time together in their grief and lead you off 
 for a menage-a-trois.
  
  When you romance a certain character, you are also given the opportunity to influence his or her 
 way of thinking. For example, the normally calm and collected Dawn Star can be persuaded to stand 
 up for herself and become an altogether less mellow person, effectively following the path of the 
 Closed Fist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddost
Rating: 5.2
Date: Mar 2, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  This game sports some nice graphics, even on a lower end system. But thats all I can say for it. 
 There is absolutely no freedom of movement in this game whatsoever. Every step you make is scripted 
 and guided and the constant cutting in of lengthy cut-scenes become unbearable after a while.
 
  When you first start the game the story seems interesting enough. But the limited choices in character 
 and the very limited choices of modification to stats and skills make this a very simplistic RPG.
 
  The choices you can make while in conversations which determine good or evil are also very tried 
 and true. The combat system is the most annoying part of the game. Every combat usually starts 
 with a cut-scene. When the combat starts you are locked in the play area and even worse: you are 
 locked into your opponent. You can kinda strafe a little left and right and do a few backflips 
 but thats it. On almost every occasion the companion would be fighting a single enemy, while my 
 character got ganged up on by 2 or more foes. The fight-style combos dont really work smoothly. 
 A lot of times I found myself trying to free my character from being stuck between a tree or rock 
 and the enemy, while the camera kept blocking my view.
  This would have been a very nice action-RPG, if it was more customizable, had a better combat system 
 and way more freedom of movement instead of being guided along on rails. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
