-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Jagged Alliance 2: Wildfire
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/jaggedalliance2wildfire/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 22, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 6.8, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 236 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: I-Deal Games
Genre: Modern Turn-Based...
Date:     Mar 4, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Fans of squad-level tactical strategy who are looking for a serious challenge -- and can forgive the 
 game's appearance -- will find that Wildfire offers as much depth and excitement as Jagged Alliance 
 2. 

  Jagged Alliance 2: Wildfire is the direct result of efforts made by many highly devoted fans to 
 add a number of enhancements to the gameplay of their favorite title. I-Deal Games has revisited 
 the 1999 strategy game from Sir-Tech and has added exceptionally thick foliage, many realistically 
 modeled new weapons, and improved enemy intelligence. The new game also offers a much, much tougher 
 challenge than that of the original Jagged Alliance 2-- perhaps too much for most players. Fortunately, 
 Wildfire also includes the full version of Jagged Alliance 2, so those who missed out on the less-punishing 
 original game can pick it up cheaply, while hardcore fans can play through the new Wildfire campaign 
 or use the included source code to create their own modifications.  

          Being outnumbered, out of ammo, and out of action points is a desperate -- and surprisingly 
 common -- situation in Wildfire.     

  The Jagged Alliance games were created by Canadian developer Sir-Tech, and the series garnered 
 a loyal fan following with its combination of personality, humor, and exciting tactical strategy. 
 In the original Jagged Alliance 2, you played as a mercenary who hired a team of other mercenaries 
 from a diverse pool of highly skilled (and some not-so-skilled) soldiers of fortune. Then you took 
 on a despot who had seized control of a third-world country. Jagged Alliance 2 was primarily a 
 turn-based game in which your mercenaries used "action points" to move, sneak around, plant bombs, 
 pick locks, scale buildings, throw grenades, attack at close range, and fire on enemies while slowly 
 inching toward the nation's capital. You later obtained more money to hire and recruit a larger 
 army with better weapons. The original game's turn-based battles were challenging and surprisingly 
 tense, since they did an excellent job of modeling what it would be like to command a small infantry 
 squad in jungle and urban battles, as well as in stealth and night-ops missions.  

  Wildfire's primary campaign reprises that of the original Jagged Alliance 2, but it adds more weapons, 
 more and tougher enemies, and higher cover. Jagged Alliance veterans may be shocked the first time 
 they fight against even the earliest enemies, who originally carried light pistols and went down 
 with a few hits but now wear body armor and carry shotguns. Wildfire's maps also have much denser 
 cover in the form of high grass, more bushes, and more trees. While the added cover can definitely 
 be useful when inching up toward an enemy position, it seems to have an overall effect of putting 
 you at a disadvantage. This is because the game's isometric 2D graphics don't do a good job of 
 layering scenery, so if your view is obscured by a tall tree or building with bushes surrounding 
 it, it's difficult to tell whether you're actually under cover nearby. Similarly, the higher cover 
 provides many more places for your enemies to hide, and to "interrupt" your turn as your own team 
 of mercenaries carefully advances. Whereas in the original Jagged Alliance 2 it was possible -- with 
 a great deal of care and more than a little cowardice -- to get your mercenaries through some missions 
 unscathed, in Wildfire it's basically guaranteed that your mercenaries will take hits.  

  Hardcore fans will also appreciate the added realism, in the form of more-realistic enemy intelligence 
 and more-realistic weapon and armor modeling. Not only are there more enemies to fight, but they're 
 much more cautious and will retreat back into cover if wounded. Moreover, if they outnumber you, 
 they'll aggressively seek to flank you. In both the original game and in Wildfire, you control 
 your team in real time -- until a battle starts, at which point the game becomes turn-based. In Wildfire, 
 wandering enemies are actually free to move during your real-time phase, so you can and will be 
 attacked while on the move. At best, this added challenge often makes Wildfire's battles even more 
 tense and thrilling than the already exciting skirmishes of Jagged Alliance 2. At worst, this challenge 
 can be extremely frustrating, especially if a group of hidden enemies attacks you from out of nowhere 
 and puts one or more of your team members out of commission.  

  The expansion also includes a great many real-world weapons that both your team and your enemies 
 will use, in addition to more-realistic armor modeling. For instance, poking away at an armored 
 enemy using single-shot fire from a medium submachine gun will injure him, but it won't kill him 
 outright. Ultimately, the new weapon and armor modeling do make the game's battles seem more realistic, 
 but unless you're a military hardware buff, it's doubtful that you'll be able to notice great differences 
 between the firing patterns of a Ruger Mini-14 rifle and a Ruger Mini-30 rifle, for example.  

 
  Wildfire's additional realism and difficulty are probably its greatest strengths, but they may 
 be the game's greatest weaknesses too. The new, more-realistic weapons, armor, and enemy intelligence 
 and the increased difficulty will likely appeal only to hardcore fans and may prove simply too 
 tough for other players. Then again, the new additions will certainly be enjoyed by hardcore fans 
 of the series that are looking for a new challenge.  

          You may find it hard to get past Wildfire's dated graphics and music, though Bobby 'Steroid' 
 Gontarski's quips are always good for a laugh.     

  If you're not already a fan of the Jagged Alliance series, you may also have trouble with the game's 
 presentation. Wildfire's only new visual additions are its new weapons (which appear as small icons 
 in your mercenaries' inventories) and higher cover (which comes in the form of high grass, trees, 
 bushes, and buildings) , and much of this looks bland and unremarkable. This is because nothing 
 else has changed about Wildfire's graphics or sound since Jagged Alliance 2. Everything else, from 
 the low-resolution 2D graphics to all the interface menus, has remained exactly the same as it 
 was in a game that already looked dated back in 1999. Furthermore, Wildfire recycles all of the 
 sound and voice samples from the original game. There are no new mercenaries or characters in Wildfire, 
 so if you've played the original game and are familiar with its subdued musical score and mouthy 
 mercenaries, then you can expect to see and hear nothing new. However, the game's mercenary characters 
 remain as interesting and as funny as ever, and different mercenaries still have particular histories 
 with others that may cause them to get along with -- or feud with -- their fellows.  

  Wildfire's campaign is based on that of the original Jagged Alliance 2, and both campaigns offer 
 a considerable amount of playtime. However, Wildfire's tougher campaign will definitely require 
 even more time and effort. Despite the lack of any kind of multiplayer options, the game comes 
 bundled with the original Jagged Alliance 2 at a modest price point of $20. It also comes with 
 the original game's source code for those hardcore hobbyists who enjoy creating modifications, 
 though the code is provided as actual raw code and not as an easy-to-use editor. This basically 
 means that you'll need programming expertise and more than a little spare time to be able to use 
 it. It seems odd that publisher Strategy First didn't also bundle in the Unfinished Business expansion 
 pack from 2000 (which appears in the publisher's previous Jagged Alliance 2 Gold bundle) , but Wildfire 
 still has a lot to offer. More-casual players may have trouble getting past the game's dated presentation 
 and punishing difficulty. However, fans of squad-level tactical strategy and small-arms battles 
 who are looking for a serious challenge -- and can forgive the game's appearance -- will find that 
 Wildfire offers as much depth and excitement as Jagged Alliance 2.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: nicoliani
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 23, 2006 9:49 am PT
Review:  Just pick up this game, so by now it like 7 years old as it haven't been much changed since Jagged 
 Alliance back in 1999. The idea for the game is right, there is some efforts for making the game 
 interested and getting the right touch for it. But it could been made better and more interesting. 
 As I find it like to geeky in some way with allot of touch of old school games in the 80's.
  If you have a old computer that won't handle all the newest games around this game should definitely 
 come to a try out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ion_flux
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 20, 2005 12:07 am PT
Review:  I need to preface this review by saying that I am a huge JA2 fan. Of all the games I've played 
 JA2 is one that I continue to come back to, even though the graphics are several generations out 
 of date, the voice acting is corny, and the combat can be repetitive. It is still one of the best 
 implementations of tactical, turn-based strategy with RPG elements that I know of. 
  
  That having been said, JA2: Wildfire is ... irritating. 
  
  The difficulty settings should 
 be re-labeled to read "annoying" at the lowest, to "infuriating" at the highest. It's very common 
 to have your "CIA handler" to start whining about your lack of progress, even before you can get 
 your team members healed up after a fight. Talk about feeling underappreciated. On top of that, 
 the abilities of your opponents are sometimes set so high that reloading saved games becomes part 
 of a necessary strategy. Which means poor design, in other words.
  
  However, if the difficulty settings were the only problems, I wouldn't complain so much. The real 
 problem is bugs. This game is really, really buggy. Crashes to desktop due to corrupted maps forced 
 me to restart the game from the beginning several times. Now that the developer, Ideal Games, is 
 no longer working on the project, no patches are forthcoming.
  
  So there you have it. A great game turned into an annoying bugfest. You are far better off with 
 any of the excellent fan produced projects such as Deidranna Lives or Urban Chaos. If you love 
 turn-based strategy and JA2, stay away from this game. It will only make you angry.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Igniferroque
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 24, 2004 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Such potential lost. As much as I was looking forward to a harder version of Jagged Alliance 2, 
 Wildfire is not playable. Every other attempt to save results in a lockup, in some cases requiring 
 to power-cycle my computer. If you look at ideal-games. com, you'll see that they severed their 
 relationship with Strategy First due to non-payment. Given that Strategy First has just filed for 
 bankruptcy, it is unlikely the developers will get their money and therefore it is unlikely that 
 they will provide a patch. The game looks great, but it is too frustrating to play. Save yourself 
 the agony and hope they release it through another publisher or online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaincat
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 23, 2004 12:46 am PT
Review:  When I got the game I was surprised to find that it was the same story as before, with new things 
 added. It's fun with the increased difficulty but the graphics are really outdated now. The biggest 
 problem I have with the game is lack of polish. The graphics engine doesn't phase out buildings 
 when your mercs are inside of them sometimes. I also have a huge problem with the game freezing 
 or crashing. I am currently trying to take over the last secter of Drassen (the mine) and I can't 
 do it because it's crashing or freezing nearly constantly. The game has literally crashed about 
 20 times on this one mission and a lot of the time it's so bad that I have to reboot even though 
 I'm running XP Pro. Pray for a patch... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxTiffyGurlxX
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 14, 2004 4:24 am PT
Review:  A absolute must for anyone who likes turnbased - and a great new  
 of the original JA2.
  Slightly dated graphics, mood-catching music, superb gameplay and tactics...
  
  Forget all 
 about stupid AI-enemies...... these are mean, lean, and will try to sneak up on you, behind you, 
 and would dig holes and bite you in the heels if the game allowed it...... Huge improvement over 
 the original, which was not bad either AI-wise.
  All locations have been rebuilt and rearranged - the enemies are serious this time !
  New weaponry 
 - armor - techstuff......
  
  As a comparsion:
  In the old JA2, normal level gameplay, Sci-Fi- setting, with some stubbornness and good tactics, 
 one could have 75% of the map under control after week 1 - all cities except Meduna included....
 
  At the end of week 1 I am now struggling hard to take town 3...... and I have no idea if I am going 
 to be able to hold on to it once I get the enemy kicked out.
  
  After having played JA2 almost to the point of getting fed up, I am happy to have played this for 
 days now - enjoying it as much as I ever did before, and with some experience under the belt I 
 heartily recommend this to fans of the genre.
  
  Go get this at once ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomahawk22
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 11, 2004 11:36 am PT
Review:  So far so good. This is a revision of the original, so not quite like replaying JA2 but close. 
 The maps have better layouts and much smarter enemies. It's simply much more realistic and thus 
 more fun. You can take a hit or two with body armor but that's it, you walk out into a courtyard 
 and the rooftop snipers will kill you. I've had to adjust my tactics and play more "shoot 'n scoot". 
 The weapons are more realistic -- grenades are more powerful and useful. You can also shoot locks 
 off doors. 
  I haven't gotten into the new plot changes but the map, weapon and enemy changes alone make this 
 game worthwhile to the JA2 fan. And if you liked X-Com you shoulda bought JA2 a long time ago!! 
 If you liked the original this is worth it, though very hard. I recommend giving yourself the code 
 for extra money, scavenging for ammo clips while working a full-time job is too hard! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
