-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Jagged Alliance 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/jaggedalliance2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 23, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 8.5, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 798 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: TalonSoft
Developer: Sirtech
Genre: Modern Turn-Based...
Date:     Jun 30, 1999 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Even with its problems, its excellent combat system and sense of style make Jagged Alliance 2 very 
 easy to recommend. 

 Like X-COM: UFO Defense before it, the original Jagged Alliance was a complex turn-based strategy 
 game that gained a loyal following almost entirely through positive word of mouth. Yet while X-COM 
 had you commanding squads of marines against alien invaders, Jagged Alliance, as its name suggests, 
 put you in charge of a bunch of ragtag mercenaries, many of whom had their own agendas and wouldn't 
 always follow orders. Sirtech followed up with Jagged Alliance: Deadly Games, a pseudo-sequel that 
 included more single-player missions (though no real campaign) and multiplayer options, but it 
 was disappointing when compared with the excellent original. Now, after months in publisher limbo, 
 Jagged Alliance 2 is finally here. And, for the most part, it's excellent.  

 As in the first game, you have been hired to liberate a small country from the machinations of a 
 tyrannical ruler. To do this, you must use your small initial funds to build a team of mercenaries 
 whom you send to the country in question. You must recapture it zone by zone and in the process 
 find a means of earning money to hire more mercs and buy better equipment. The hiring/buying process 
 is all done through a well-implemented in-game version of e-mail and the World Wide Web, letting 
 you hire trained killers and purchase heavy explosives much like you'd buy more common products 
 at any online retailer.  

 Much like the original, the dozens of unique mercenaries of Jagged Alliance 2 are the highlight 
 of the game. Each merc has significant strengths and weaknesses. The stronger and more numerous 
 the strengths, the more money the merc costs (though you can get discounts for paying them for 
 a week or two up front) . The mercs each have distinct personalities, and much of the fun in the 
 game comes from hearing what they have to say in certain situations. While the Schwarzenegger-esque 
 Steroid may cry out "My skin is punctured and leaking!" after receiving a nasty wound, the tough-as-nails 
 Shadow will only worry that his blood is leaving a trail. The mercs also respond to one another, 
 and many will balk if you hire someone they particularly dislike, and some may be less inclined 
 to work for you if members of your team get killed.  

 Fans of the original will be glad to know that most of the original mercs are back, and some of 
 those that seem strangely absent from the roster make appearances in some form or another over 
 the course of the game.  

 Thankfully, guiding your mercs in action is as much fun as listening to them. The turn-based combat 
 system in Jagged Alliance 2 is excellent, including some welcome improvements over the first game. 
 Each turn, your mercs are allocated a certain number of action points, which can be used to perform 
 any action, such as moving, bandaging, using a weapon, or opening a door. When aiming at an enemy, 
 not only can you target the head, torso, or legs, but you can also allocate more points to each 
 shot, making your merc aim more precisely. When moving, mercs can crawl, crouch, or stand, and 
 a new stealth mode lets them move almost silently, though more slowly. Mercs can also climb onto 
 rooftops, making for some excellent sniping opportunities. Another significant improvement is that 
 the game switches to real time when there are no enemies in sight, letting you reposition your 
 team quickly for the next firefight.  

 Gunshots are simulated precisely, even to the extent that bullets will sometimes ricochet or penetrate 
 obstacles and still cause damage to the intended target, albeit much less than usual. And while 
 your mercs' ability to absorb damage may be a bit unrealistic (how many point-blank head shots 
 can one person really stand?) , it certainly makes the game more playable.  

 Jagged Alliance 2 deviates from the original in its campaign structure. While the map is still divided 
 into zones, you no longer simply move and fight on a zone-by-zone basis. Towns are your primary 
 targets, and you must take and hold these while training a militia to protect them while you are 
 away. Zones between towns contain wandering troops of enemies, and you have the option of retreating, 
 fighting, or having the computer resolve the combat situation for you when you encounter resistance 
 (though the latter almost always leads to unnecessary loss of life) . Your team can also find and 
 employ vehicles, from hummers to helicopters, expediting travel between zones.  

 And no longer will you have to halt your attack simply because night has fallen - you can now engage 
 in combat during day or night, though you must make sure your team gets plenty of rest. The map 
 is full of strange and unexpected encounters and at times resembles Interplay's role-playing game 
 Fallout more than X-COM. You'll even encounter nonplayer characters to converse with, and often 
 they'll ask you to undertake missions from escorting them to safety, to rescuing their imprisoned 
 comrades.  

 Visually, Jagged Alliance 2 resembles Fallout as well, with smoothly animated 2D sprites and similarly 
 barren landscapes. Oftentimes the scenery becomes repetitive, although things liven up as you press 
 into the wealthier regions of Arulco. There is a wide variety of character animations, and these 
 are excellent, though the most common death animation (drop to knees, drop to ground) occurs too 
 frequently. Sonically speaking, though, Jagged Alliance 2 is nearly perfect. The mercenaries' voices 
 are excellent (and if you find any particular merc annoying, you can mute him individually) , and 
 the soundtrack is suitably dramatic.  

 Its many strengths make Jagged Alliance 2's occasional but noticeable weaknesses especially frustrating. 
 The most notable problem is the manner in which line of sight is implemented in combat: The game 
 uses a realistic line-of-sight system, with elevation and objects serving to affect your mercenaries 
 and their targets. Unfortunately, there is no tangible way to determine the visible range for a 
 mercenary. The isometric view tends to make some terrain objects almost invisible (it's difficult, 
 for instance, to see each individual trunk in a cluster of trees) , so you may think a merc is protected 
 by cover when, in truth, he is in plain view. Predictably enough, your enemies do not suffer this 
 human handicap and seem to know just where to stand for maximum protection. There are any number 
 of ways the developers could have made this information apparent (through a fog of war or something 
 akin to Commandos' sweeping sight indicator, for example) , and its lack is a notable oversight. 

 The addition of more role-playing elements is welcome, but many of these features seem underdeveloped. 
 When speaking with NPCs, for example, you simply choose your attitude toward them (friendly, direct, 
 or threatening) . Different people will respond to different attitudes, but it's difficult to really 
 guess how to act with whom. Moreover, you only get one chance, so once they decide the conversation 
 is over, the conversation is over. You never can be certain whether they held some valuable information 
 you couldn't extract or whether they just had nothing important to say.  

 Jagged Alliance 2 also retains one of its predecessor's biggest faults: The endgame is ridiculously 
 difficult. The original contained a final combat zone that was far more challenging than any that 
 preceded it. The sequel is no different, save for the fact that instead of a single zone, its ending 
 is made up of five such areas. Jagged Alliance 2 does include three difficulty settings, but you 
 cannot change difficulty in mid-game, which means you may become hopelessly stuck toward the end. 

 Beyond just the difficulty level, Jagged Alliance 2 lets you set other key variables as well. You 
 can toggle the science fiction elements off (a choice that only affects a small subplot of the 
 game) , and you can choose either "normal guns" or "tons of guns," the latter adding a selection 
 of Warsaw Pact weapons and two additional ammo types.  

 Add to these options the wide variety of mercs, the numerous nonplayer character conversations, 
 and the random nature of encounters, and it's quite likely that you'll eagerly play through Jagged 
 Alliance 2 several times, provided you can get through the grueling endgame. Even with its problems, 
 its excellent combat system and sense of style make Jagged Alliance 2 very easy to recommend.  
   
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (20 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Meat_Bag
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 5:01 am PT
Review:  Even tough this game was released all the way back in 1999, I managed to get my hands on it just 
 recently. In these modern times of blockbuster games such as Gears Of War and Assassin's Creed, 
 it's really difficult to imagine anyone being excited about an old school game such as this. 2D 
 graphics, low resolution, no special effects at all... you might think that this ages old, modest 
 game that came quietly almost 10 years ago would lose all the charms it had back in the old days. 
 Not so! First of all, this is a game for mature audience. Plain and simple. It's deep, complex, 
 insanely difficult at times and extremely gruesome and bloody. Besides, 12 year old kids won't 
 even pay any attention to it, since they don't really give a damn about old-school games with outdated 
 graphics. But as for the more mature audience, this game will suck you in so hard you won't be 
 able to leave it easily. But be warned! I didn't rate this as "Mixed reactions" for nothing. To 
 be perfectly honest, I installed and uninstalled this game for about five times after I got it. 
 Why? Well, as I said, this is extremely difficult game. Especially in the beginning, while you're 
 still learning the ropes. I had to restart this game a few times after I realized how badly I messed 
 up, and it wasn't very pleasant.
  
  Let me give you a little bit of insight about that. Essentially, in it's essence, this game is 
 a tactical turn-based strategy game with a lot of RPG elements and management involved. You play 
 as a rugged mercenary who receives an e-mail from a banished prince of a fictional banana republic 
 called Arulco. Enrico, the good and honorable prince, has been banished and cast aside by his evil 
 wife Deidranna, a stone cold b**** who eats babies for breakfast. So now he's begging for your 
 help, like any other guy who gets his butt kicked by an ugly woman. He offers you a lot of money 
 if you help him get rid of his wife and liberate the poor people of Arulco from her evil tyranny 
 (man, those two clearly have issues with one another... talk about being married!) . And so, like 
 any good mercenary ought to, you take the job for money and money alone. And a few good kicks. 
 Clearly, your character enjoys killing people more than Darth Vader. 
  
  Anyway, this is where the game starts. You create your character, hire a few average mercenaries 
 and off you go. At first you'll be equipped with simple pistols and handguns, and it's up to you 
 to scrap all the equipment you can get, until you earn more money and get access to more advanced 
 weapons and equipment. The game itself takes place in real time, but as soon as the combat starts 
 the game jumps into turn-based mode. In real time you can talk to people, explore new areas, travel, 
 take side quests, etc., etc. It's like a good RPG. While in turn-based mode, you just shoot and 
 shoot until all your enemies are dead. And here we come to the first issues - communicating with 
 other characters. You can click on whatever NPC character you want to talk to, but you can never 
 actually choose what to say, you only sit and wait for a conversation to end. And hope you learn 
 something important from it. Really, there's no way you can tell just who the heck is important 
 enough for you to talk to, and who's just bugging you with useless gibberish. Next, we have the 
 issue of difficult learning curve. And that's the main reason why I was so frustrated with this 
 game at first. Really, a phrase "read the f***ing manual" is something that shouldn't be taken 
 lightly in this game. In the beginning, I didn't even know where to get more guns, ammo, equipment, 
 or even that I could've created my own character from the beginning.
  
  But, as soon as I learned the ropes, that's when the fun started... for a while. Very soon, I was 
 stunned by the insane number of enemies the game throws at me. Especially at the beginning, when 
 you still don't have the advantage of superior equipment to deal with all that. It seems that the 
 evil dictator has an unlimited supply of men and guns at her disposal, since she's sending them 
 wave after wave at your newly conquered towns and mines. I mean, really... you'd think that after 
 losing about a few dozen men to my 3 or 4 commandos, they'd decide to cut their losses and pull 
 back, maybe fortify their remaining towns and brace for an impending attack. Or get more men, wait 
 for a week or two to prepare and then attack again with better-trained men and better equipment. 
 A thing that would be, you know... strategic. But nooo, they simply send more and more men for 
 you to butcher. They also seem to be able to move pretty fast while traveling on foot, since there 
 is rarely a day when there are no bad guys on your territory. That alone is enough to drive you 
 insane sometimes, since your enemies are really smart and always seem to find perfect cover.
  
  That being said, that's about the worst thing about this game. Very soon you'll get your hands 
 on more equipment and money, and you'll be able to train militia to defend the key strategic locations. 
 You get money by conquering mines, of course, which is essential to your war effort. But beware, 
 the enemy needs money as well, so they'll often send their soldiers to recapture them. So, you 
 took control over a few mines, you got some money, it's time to build up your army... All the management 
 in this game is done by your in-game laptop. Your laptop is your lifeline, since you purchase weapons, 
 hire mercs, receive e-mails and update your journal on it. You have to plan ahead and think carefully 
 on what to buy and who to hire, if you're planning to survive. Tough, eh?
  
  As for your army? Well, they're all mercenaries, of course, big bad mercenaries. They don't give 
 a damn about anyone or anything, they just want the money. Like you, really... However, in this 
 game they are portrayed so well, you just have to love them. They're loud-mouthed, rude, sarcastic 
 and often sadistic. Dark humor is present throughout this game all the way to the end, and if you're 
 a person who likes that, expect a few good laughs with your mercs and their comments on the situation 
 around you. But then again, what can you expect? It's really hard to give a crap about the people 
 you're here to protect, since all the Arulco civilians are nothing but a bunch of spineless cowards, 
 just waiting for you to come and solve all of their problems. Despite the fact that there are tons 
 of weapons lying all around them, none of them even tought about picking up a gun and standing 
 up for themself. You'd think that the arrival of foreign mercenaries would inspire people, fire 
 up the rebellion against the dictator they all allegedly hate. But nooooo-o-o-o, my friend, they're 
 just sitting on their butts while you and your men do all the work. No wonder their country is 
 in such messed-up state. You even have to train and finance their militia yourself. So yes, you 
 probably won't even care about them. Like any other mercenary, you'll simply enjoy killing people 
 for money, not giving a damn about the civilians, or this backwater country.
  
  Well, the combat itself is awesome enough, since your enemies are extremely smart, and use cover 
 wisely. I actually played the Gold version of this game, with 1.13 patch, which provided some really 
 cool features, like the ability to see good cover spots with a simple press of a button. After 
 you kill a person, he or she will simply drop down on the ground in a pool of blood, with a death 
 moan so real it'll send chills down your spine. Really, the combat in this game is so gruesome, 
 there's blood everywhere, not to mention the scenes when you blow somebody's head off at point 
 blank range, or nail him to the wall with a machine gun. Even after you kill your enemies and leave 
 the area, their corpses will still be there when you return, only now you'll see them decomposing, 
 vultures picking them, entrails lying all around... makes you wanna puke. But hey, war isn't pretty. 
 It's gruesome. Deal with it!
  
  All in all, what to say? This game is a classic after all, and if you give it a chance, it will 
 suck you in so hard you won't be able to leave it easily. But because of it's extreme difficulty 
 and steep learning curve, as well as some minor issues, it simply cannot score more then 8.5. Sad... 
 If, by any chance, you are an adult who read about this game in the magazines as a child (as I 
 did) , you won't be disappointed. This truly is a game you simply must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BillyAngst
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 27, 2008 1:32 am PT
Review:  i'm a fan of tactics anything. but squad based tactics are so rare that we can still referenece 
 laser squad among the last 10 releases of squad based anything. does jagged alliance 2 have issues? 
 sure. do they matter? hell no. it's all about personality. and of course gameplay. the introduction 
 of realtime during exploration of a map (with enemies) was revolutionary, and sadly ignored by 
 everyone publishing an x-com clone since JA2. We're, what, seven, eight years later and no one 
 has published a game in this genre trhat has smoked what the Currie's did so long ago. Do yourself 
 a favour and track this game down if you've never played it. If i had to pick only five games i 
 could every play over the course of my life, this would be one of them (oddly enough, most of those 
 game would be sequels, cause I'd take star control II, Baldur's Gate II, Doom II, and think long 
 and hard about the last one......) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benjiskhan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  I'm not going to write a review about Jagged Alliance 2... if you don't know the game, go and get 
 it RIGHT NOW. If you know it, and would like to have a better experience with it, visit The Bear's 
 Pit JA Community (I won't put the url since GameSpot may not like 'advertising' on their reviews... 
 just google it)
  
  There you can update your game, and fix most of the game's bug issues that were a pain in the ass 
 before (there's still a few bugs here and there, so be sure to save often) .
  
  But the best thing you'll find in The Bear's Pit is the new inventory system... it changes the 
 game completely, adding LBE gear to the mix (LBE stands for Load Bearing Equipment) . Now, in order 
 to load your mercs with all he or she's going to need, you'll need to get them an LBE vest (not 
 any vest... a Russian vest might be better for a machinegun-man, while a Honk-Kong Police vest 
 will suit your grenadier better) , get them holsters, utility pouches, etc... there's even a knife 
 slot so know each one of your mercs will be able to stab Deidranna to death.
  
  If you think this will make the game easier, think again. The weight limit is still there, so you'll 
 have to think about what to carry. You'll actually be able to carry less equipment than with the 
 old inventory system... the thing is, now you can carry a bigger variety of things, so you won't 
 have to be dropping thins here and there... and if you really need to carry a big load of things, 
 you can take a backpack... just be sure to drop it before battle, since it will make you very slow 
 and you won't even be able to climb onto second floors.
  
  Wether you're a hardcore JA2 player, or have never played, please, try this. You won't regret it.
 
  
  
  (Note: There's an online play feature in development in The Bear's Pit too!! I haven't tried it 
 yet, but I bet it rocks!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: James009
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2008 9:51 am PT
Review:  While the dated graphics may immediately turn off the modern gamer DO NOT GIVE UP ON THIS GAME! 
 Jagged Alliance 2 is unlike any other game. It combines RPG elements with tactical TBS and some 
 strategic RTS.
  
  You start with a budget and a pool of a large number of mercenaries preparing to engage in covert 
 warfare on the island of Arulco. The story is this, an evil dictator has de-throned the rightful 
 monarch (Monarchy: A political system of hereditary rule, not like an Elven King) and he has hired 
 you and your men to take back his country.
  
  This is when the game gets good. You begin with the option of creating a custom mercenary and then 
 assembling a team of soldiers, medics, and mechanics. Your team is created by hiring people from 
 a mercenary pool. Each individual is unique and offers something different in terms of experience 
 and skills, this is the heart of the RPG game in Jagged. As you play with these characters you 
 will see them improve their skills and attributes and offer you more bang for the buck. You can 
 also spend time training your men when there is no action, which takes more time.
  
  Your objective is to conquer all of the cities in Arulco and free the people from the "Queen's" 
 evil tyranny. As you take control of more territory you'll see greater income in your budget which 
 you can spend on soldiers, weapons, armor, and equipment. Additionally, you sometimes unlock new 
 storyline elements bringing new objectives or new people.
  
  The game takes some time to beat just because of the island's size and scale, its not something 
 you beat in one day. Secondly, replayability is high because of the uniqueness of all the characters.
 
  
  My only dislike is that the game limits you to 20 mercenaries total. While it is reasonable to 
 maintain a small mercenary feel it rather hampers the game because there are far more then 20 mercenaries 
 total to recruit from and it sucks to miss out on characters because they are all so unique and 
 have something to offer.
  
  Lastly, you can find some excellent modifications for the game which almost act as a uber-patch 
 or expansion pack. Try: http://ja2v113. schtuff. com/features
  
  Conclusion? Jagged Alliance 2 is an addictive and excellent game that everyone who calls themselves 
 a game needs to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macmert
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  This game is THE turn based strategy game after the UFO series (I mean the original series not 
 the crap like aftermath and stuff) this game is just excellent , the combat system is not frustrating 
 and when you are not in a fire fight the game turns to real time, the characters are just awesome, 
 for example Fidel would never turn away from a fire fight so retreat is not an option for him, 
 which means he wont listen to your orders to retreat or run back hehehehe... Some characters would 
 sometimes fire as burst fire, some would not work with some certain people hehehe...
  
  The game is just a great blend of RPG and turn based strategy, give it a try you wont regret it 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_blue
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 6:57 am PT
Review:  Jagged Alliance 2 from Sir Tech and strategy first is a strategy game that incorporates fun turn 
 based battles with real time strategy in the form of movement over land managing mercs etc with 
 some RPG elements to make a fantastic game thats withstood the test of time!
  
  Its set in present day in a fictional country of Arulco which has been taking over by a merciless 
 dictator and a dissatisfied expat has given you a mercenary money to aid the resistance and take 
 back the island city by city.
  
  Initially you start the game with having your laptop set up and connected to the internet with 
 several options at the side of the screen, look at emails (you'll get notified emails regarding 
 progress if its too slow doing well etc, increase in mercenary fees, mercenary deaths and shipment 
 info) create a mercenary from 'I. M. P' by answering various psychological questions the result of 
 which is sent to you in a email describing why the character youve created has those specific stats/skills 
 , if you answer saying you wanted to be Bruce lee for example you're character will most likely 
 be a martial arts expert and have benefits for unarmed combat.
  
  Also you can hire mercenaries (initially only) from A. I. M which has the better selection of mercenaries 
 but also the more expensive ones, you can examine mug shots and extra details and contact them 
 to be hired with various contracts ranging from a few days to a couple of weeks.
  
  It should be noted that the mercenaries have their own personality, voice and dont always get on 
 with other mercenaries and will occasionally speak about their fellows in their squad.
  Also depending on how well you're managing your mercenaries they may refuse to extend their contracts 
 and you may not even be able to hire new mercenaries until you improve your progress - for example 
 I lost two mercenaries taking Drassen Airport and I couldnt hire anyone else until i had taken 
 more of the city and improved my standing.
  
  Eventually though you'll be able to hire some pretty shoddy mercenaries from a rival mercenary 
 business called M. E. R. C which have low cost paid by the day mercenaries, usually I would have them 
 as a garrison continually training militia.
  
  Also by the laptop internet you can access bobbys guns and order ammo etc which will be updated 
 as you progress throughout the game, however you need somewhere for the deliveries and the rebels 
 on arulco dont have a airport which leads me onto the gameplay
  
  As I mentioned earlier the battles are done in turn based mode quite similar to say Fallout series, 
 you're characters depending on stats will have some action points (AP's) and AP's are expending 
 by moving, changing position , throwing things, passing items, reloading and attacking whether it 
 be by unarmed combat or firing weapons in either single shot mode, aimed shots or burst fire.
 
  Its a very tactical game you can crawl to reduce the chance of being spotted but move much more 
 slowly and cost more AP's to face in a different direction, but being more difficult to shot at 
 is a balanced trade off in some situations.
  Also you can crouch again reduces the chance of being seen and potential to be hit but you move 
 a little bit slower than standing upright, but if your standing upright and round a corner into 
 a enemy with a colt commando dont expect your merc to dodge any bullets.
  
  Furthermore positioning your mercenaries is critical to the game, you have to utilise cover otherwise 
 you'll be in the open exposed and shot to pieces even if you have a high level merc they are not 
 one man killing machines as seen in some RPG's they can be brought down by a lowly redshirt with 
 a pistol if shot maybe 3,4 or sometimes 5 times.
  By careful positioning you can block line of sight for some enemies and can say go from prone to 
 crouch and fire a shot before retuning to prone to stop a counter shot by the enemy next turn, 
 offcourse this requires the mercenary to have at least 2 spare AP's after getting up and firing 
 to return to prone.
  
  Also you should bunch up all your characters in one place because if an enemy throws a few grenades 
 you'll end up with a neat pile of dead mercenaries, more so you can have mercenaries jump on roofs 
 and try to take out the enemy that way, but cover even in the form of buildings is never guaranteed, 
 all walls are destructible if there's explosives involved ,so theres quite a bit to mindful of 
 in combat and this is just where to place your mercenaries.
  
  Each mercenary has a limited number of Health Points, when theyre hit and being hit in various 
 parts of the body will result in different types of wounds, for example a leg shot may reduce dexterity 
 and cause a merc to collapse and miss a turn, a headshot might diminish perception and cause collapse 
 etc, but when theyre are shot theyre HP bar which is red will loose some health points but the 
 ones which were lost will now be represented in a yellow bar - this yellow bar represents theyre 
 full health capacity but since theyve been shot theyre also bleeding to death , so you'll need 
 a character with a good degree of medical knowledge to heal them up with either first aid kit or 
 medical kit, if you do so this yellow bar will return to a lighter shade of red but the merc isnt 
 fully healed theyre still badly wounded but youve stopped the blood loss but they'll move sluggishly, 
 the merc will need further treatment after a sector is secured to fully heal up, which means you'll 
 want to take care of your mercenaries during combat.
  
  When a merc is hit in burst fire mode full on theyre 99% gonna die, likewise the enemy will aswell, 
 but when a enemy is hit and nearly dead but not quite they'll pass out and bleed to death again 
 unless you can stop the blood loss, many fights in the game will have you're mercs ending up nearly 
 dead and requiring immediate medical attention so theres quite abit of suspense to the game.
  
  For each kill , shot ,use of skill etc you're merc will gain experience or points to increase 
 that specific skill they used - say a really good shot will earn your merc a point in marksmanship 
 making them more accurate, once they have enough exp they'll level up and have general increases 
 to stats etc, however as they get better mercenaries fees will increase to reflect this.
  
  To get money the player must take sectors of towns which include mines to have a stable source 
 of income to further the cause of the resistance (or do you want to take over the island?)
  
  Next on gameplay theres the more real time but pausable strategic layer where you can assign 
 mercs into squads, access laptop internet, move mercs, train them etc as you send a squad of up 
 to 6 mercs off to a town they may spot something of interest in a sector and you can choose to 
 enter it, the point of interest may be a bunch of farmers which can offer you a minor side quest 
 - one funny one being giving a female merc a a bride. But more likely as you are moving a squad 
 to a specific target they'll be ambushed by wild beats or bump into an enemy patrol at which point 
 you can choose to auto resolve the encounter, retreat to another sector or fight them in turn based 
 combat, - initially the combat will be real time but as soon as an enemy is spotted it goes into 
 the turn based glorious mode.
  
  After a sector is cleared it goes back into real time and you can heal up/loot etc and then skiddadle 
 onto the original path you intended, eventually you'll also need to rest your characters, then 
 when you reach a city sector you wish to take (most cities are 3 to 4 sectors big some even larger 
 like Grumm and Meduna) you can wait for a night attack (very difficult in the beginning without 
 night goggles) or for a day light attack and position your mercs where you can and proceed, at 
 the start it'll be real time as mentioned then when an enemy is spotted turn based mode, you have 
 a variety of tactics at your disposal, frontal attack, snipe, lure round corners and kill, maybe 
 split up you're squads and attack from different directions, you can even have multiple squads 
 all attack the same sector at once to achieve numerical superiority.
  
  Each sector has alot enemies, in the beginning they'l be armed much as your own mercs, with pistols 
 which means close quarter fights are going to occur, eventually though you'll be outclassed by 
 them as they start wielding shotguns submachine guns and assault rifles accurate at twice the range 
 as pistols so you'll be in for a struggle but eventually you'll loot these fine weapons for yourself 
 and they'll become available for purchase on bobby rays via laptop internet - which leads back 
 to the question from earlier, if you can order items how do you get them for your mercs with no 
 airport? well you take over Drassen City from the queen dictator and you can have them delivered 
 safely for your mercenaries to use.
  
  It should also be noted that once youve taken over a sector you can acquire side quests in RPG 
 fashion by talking to the locals who will have a task for you - escort missions, rescue missions 
 , find a specific person etc each with their own rewards. Also by talking to ach character with 
 some meaningful dialog there will appear a box with their face , they have their own voice the 
 lip-synching is top notch and a few varieties of dialog you can be friendly, direct threatening 
 make deals etc its hardly as sophisticated as RPG's but this is mainly a turn based strategy game 
 and I was surprised to see a good RPG element implemented into the game.
  
  Speaking of RPG elements, this game also has more choice and consequence for your actions than 
 some RPG's made this day! quite amazing, you can actually kill the rebel leader and try take over 
 the island yourself, you can choose not to do certain quests, you are free to attack whatever sectors 
 you want theres no linear path and quite frankly, its great having the freedom like that but also 
 a purpose to the course of the game.
  
  As you progress through the game you'll take over sectors but you'll want to keep them protected 
 as you move your mercenaries out, to do this you can leave a mercenary and train militia continuously 
 for money, depending on leadership skill of mercenary eventually a group of militia will be trained 
 , green coats at first for well, green troops then blue for veterans, you'll want to keep a sector 
 protected because the arulco army will occasionally launch attacks to retake sectors and you dont 
 want to see all your hard work undone just because you were too hasty and moved off all your mercenaries 
 from a town do you?
  
  As you can tell by the indepth analysis of the gameplay, its a very fun game certainly one of the 
 classics and I cant help but feel also should have been more successful. (at least theirs going 
 to be a jagged alliance 3 with turn based combat)
  
  Now onto the graphics, well they're not exactly pretty, even on release the graphics were distinctly 
 average and now they are what id still consider average but very basic with poor character sprites 
 themselves. The characters have slightly different sizes depending on physiques but they're undetailed 
 and a little blurry, buildings look basic with oddly thin walls , terrain looks fine in my view 
 still and the animations throughout are pretty dam good, the graphics do not detract from the game.
 
  Speaking of the animations the merc and character faces in dialog and taskbar at the bottom are 
 very good and nicely detailed and theres a few death animations which are gory and reminiscent 
 of fallout series critical shots, shooting someone in the head with a shotgun might make their 
 head explode, shooting someone close range with a pistol or assault rifle might make the enemy 
 fly backwards with a gaping hole in their chest but most often they'll collapse forward and a pool 
 of blood form - o yea this game is quite gory too.
  
  Sound wise, the music is pretty decent theres a few ambient style tracks which dont get in the 
 way then the more action packed ones for fighting in enemy sectors - once a sector is cleared it'll 
 change back again to the more peaceful ambient style tracks, theres a couple of tracks which may 
 stick in your mind but overall id say its quite good fitting for the game but not exceptional.
 
  Voiceovers are done very well and can also inject a little humour into hte game - everyone's favourite 
 idiot Elliott for example as he tries to placate his queen even with the bad news of towns being 
 taken over.
  
  The complaints I have with the game, well its very difficult at times and battles can take hours 
 to resolve but luckily you can save in mind battle, also the character sprites look basic, some 
 of the music is merely ok not great and memorable and there's still a few bugs in the game such 
 as turns not getting completed etc and there's doesn't quite feel like there's enough weapons and 
 items in the game or some of the ones in the game are too similar more choice would be great and 
 there's no multiplayer.
  
  Overall a great game, a classic to be sure and Im so glad I managed to buy this game even though 
 its quite old.
  
  Pros:
  .Excellent turn based combat blended with RPG moments and realtime management.
  .Interesting 
 setting
  .Choice and Consequence gameplay
  .RPG elements
  .Challenging game
  .Will last quite a while too
  
  Neutral:
  .Music is ok nothing fantastic, a few good tracks 
 both action packed and ambient but some are just unremarkable.
  
  Cons:
  .At times it feels too difficult
  .Graphically it can be considered to be downright poor
  .No 
 multiplayer mode
  .Still abit buggy 
  .could do with a few more weapons especially more assault rifles
  .sometimes the combat sectors 
 feel like they take wayyy to long so you really have to be patient.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dupreez
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 9, 2007 3:59 am PT
Review:  I am yet to see Gameplay, Value and addictiveness that this game possesses.
  I have finished Jagged Alliance 2 four times. Trough bugs that made my PC crash in the middle of 
 a 2 hour battle where you cant even save. After a mild outrage, I would restart my PC and just 
 load from the sector before and start the battle over again. Thats the kind of Power that this 
 game possesses.
  
  If you want to see a 10 year old game, that is still very much alive, go to Bearpit Forums on ja 
 galaxy.
  
  Who knows maybe you will Find yourself hooked like you never thought you could be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: respektive
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 24, 2007 5:50 am PT
Review:  - a Hollywood-handbook story
  You are the last hope of Enrico Chivaldori the leader of a small country named Arulco. His evil 
 wife Deidranna took his throne and enslaved the population. There is a small resistance, but they 
 are far too weak to face Deidranna. You and your mercenaries must rid the country from this evil 
 woman.
  - turn based squad action
  Create your alter ego (or don't) and hire some of the best mercenaries on this planet.
  - RPG-like 
 skill gains
  As you progress, your skills (and those of your mates) enhance enabling you to finally challenge 
 Deidranna.
  - lots of realistic weaponry
  One of my favorites is the Steyr Aug with attached scope, self-made barrel extension and improved 
 trigger repetition. You see - JA2 features state of the art weaponry and the possibility to attach 
 some nice enhancers.
  
  If you enjoy turn based strategy - like Chess :P or Incubation or JA1 or The Battle For Wesnoth 
 or Heroes of Might and Magic or Civilization or Colonization or Panzer General - just get this 
 awesome game (btw: it's budget) .
  
  PS: This game is old now, so be forgiving! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Logeth
Rating: 9
Date: May 1, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Watched my buddy play this when I was younger and it seemed really fun. So when I found this along 
 with two other games in a take-three-pay-for-two old games corner, I figured it might be worth 
 it. And it was.
  
  This is a great blend of strategy and action. It starts off pretty easy, but don't think this game 
 is a walk in the park! You'll have to be at full alert if you want all of your team members through 
 alive. And once they're dead, there's no return! They're dead forever, no 1-ups, so it pays off 
 to get your best strategic thinking out!
  
  The game design is simply great. You are a commander of sorts sitting on your butt and commanding 
 a team of mercenaries in a rebellion against a dictator queen. There's a control panel with an 
 overview map of the Arulco country. From there you can command your mercenaries around the world 
 to do your bidding. But don't think they'll do the dirty work for you! If you want the best results, 
 you'll have to get right into the action and guide their every move in turn-based combat. When 
 you're not fighting, though, you can have them practice skills or train militia, or a bunch of 
 other stuff. Or you can surf the internet. Yeah, really! Not the real internet, though, just a 
 select few in-game sites where you can hire mercenaries, order weapons and equipment, arrange funerals 
 or get your mercs insured. However, in order to get that gear you ordered, you'll need the airport 
 under your control! All those details make the game feel more alive!
  
  There is a **** of NPCs in the game to interact with, some might even join you if they feel like 
 it. Others may be mercs hired by the enemy, or just plain old useless villagers. All of them have 
 their own animated face and voice, making them so much more personal than just a blob walking about 
 and spitting out some text when you click on them. The same goes for your mercs, all of them have 
 their own voice, animated face, style and set of skills. Some of them are actually friends and 
 enemies ! You figure out what happens if you put two mercs who don't like each other in the same 
 squad.
  
  In order to get money for your operations, you'll need to take control of the mines in Arulco, 
 granting you a steady income as long as you hold the mines. However, how much money you get depends 
 on the people's belief in you. Sit around for a month and the loyalty will drop, leaving you with 
 less money. Then you'll have to go kill some enemy soldiers or liberate a town or two to get the 
 loyalty up again. But if you get too straightforward there's a greater risk of your mercs getting 
 killed. You'll have to balance attack and rest if you want to be successful. And of course, if 
 you leave your towns and mines unguarded, be assured the enemy will retake them before you even 
 realize what happened.
  
  There is also a helicopter pilot to be found. He'll fly you around arulco for a fee, and if you 
 want full freedom, you'll need to take control of the enemy SAM sites, or he'll take ten times 
 the fee for flying through unsecured airspace. Another detail that makes the game feel more alive.
 
  
  Well, simply put, this is a pretty great game. Sure, it's pretty old now, but hey, who said old 
 games can't be good? At least give it a try, you owe it that much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 15, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Although I did enjoy what I played of the game it took too much time to play.. I guess the game 
 is just not my style.. and should have expected a Fallout type gameplay. I guess my mindset was 
 just a bit off with this game.. which kinda expresses what I felt about it.. I bought this game 
 via Steam without even playing it before. I guess you have to play the game upon release to know 
 how revolutionary the game was. Plus games released during that period did look a far better.. 
 If the game was released in the late to mid 90s I could understand the lack of 3D card required 
 graphics. Heck BG2 didn't need one.. but BG didn't need one in order to look good . The sound is 
 okay.. the value is just great.. lots of replay value in this game .. but my taste was a bit off 
 so I have to give it a good ranking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentat76
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 21, 2006 5:37 am PT
Review:  The sequel of the well known ancestor jagged Alliance, has surely perfected the game in every aspect 
 of this uber-super game.
  
  You never say, why didnt they think about that or If that feature was added to the game it would 
 have been better as the game offers you everything comprehensiely leaving nothing out can you desire. 
 It is completely a fascinating game which offers more than you can ask for.
  
  Tons of guns, bombs, characters with their very own personality (which everyone admires with this 
 game) Lots of options, moves, abilities including characters can throw clips to eachother in some 
 distance, can merge items to create various tools or bombs, can climb roofs for better line of 
 fire, can jumpin or out from windows, interact with each other, as well as fire mortars and set 
 detonators on heavily fortified positions... and this is the least they can do!!
  
  Hire mercs from your ingame Laptop computer (Which i was very surprised to see Sir-tech OS on my 
 screen) Superb musics and sound effects, increadible amount of accessories to use including gas 
 masks, sun goggles, Night vision goggles, armor piercing ammo, mine sweepers, kevlar armors and 
 helmets and much more. Best one is you can order such items from in-game internet site Gun's and 
 butter Obtain a junk van to carry your mercs, destroy sam sites around to be able to carry them 
 with a copter. Capture enemy ruled towns to gain control of silver mines and as your income flourishes, 
 hire additional and more proffesional mercs. train militia to teach them to protect themselves 
 and townsfolk as well as your bloody obtained mines.
  
  It is extremely hard to describe each and every aspect of the game as that is a very well created 
 game, thanx to developers from here for such a masterpiece , even that is a long game to reach 
 to its end, due to its very high relayability value, you will always keep the discs not far from 
 your computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neverness
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 26, 2006 6:57 am PT
Review:  JA2
  
  In many ways, Jagged Alliance 2 is the paradigm of what squad-based tactical games should be. The 
 game not only does a superb job of combat but adds an additional strategic layer with a main story 
 and numerous side stories. The game is nearing the decade old mark, so it is certainly not the 
 prettiest, but the gameplay more than makes up for the fact that almost everybody in the game wears 
 wife-beaters. Sometimes art does imitate life.
  
  The game begins with the fictional country of Arulco having suffered a coup and the former ruler 
 enlists you to retake the country from his evil wife (maybe that explains all the wife-beater clothes) . 
 Fortunately, you have contact with AIM, an international mercenary organization, to provide the 
 needed muscle for such an undertaking.
  
  You begin the game looking at your characters laptop and going to AIMs homepage where you peruse 
 the mercs files and contact them via webcam to work out contract details. The mercs are easily 
 the biggest sell of the game as they all have very distinct personalities, abilities, and surprisingly 
 large amounts of spoken dialogue. The mercenaries are also much improved from the original game 
 (wherein many mercs just plain sucked ability-wise) and you have the option to create your own 
 mercenary which is quite interesting. You take a personality test to determine your mercs skills 
 and assign your ability points, choose a face and voice and you are on your way. Other websites 
 you can visit include Bobby-Rays which is an arms and equipment dealer, a second-rate merc recruitment 
 website run by an alum of the original game who offers fairly lousy mercs at cheap rates, and some 
 others that are not entirely useful but add nice atmosphere to the game.
  
  The game begins with your mercs dropping into the rebels city, which just got attacked by the 
 enemy army, and making contact with the rebellion. You also fight some weak enemies to give you 
 a taste of battle. It is here within the battles that the game really shines.
  
  Your characters can walk, move silently, run, crouch, go prone, and even climb on top of buildings. 
 Finding and using cover is extremely important as your mercs can get pretty shot up if they arent 
 crouching behind walls, lying down behind a tree, or otherwise trying to make themselves harder 
 to hit. The enemy also uses cover pretty effectively and will actively flank you and even throw 
 grenades to force you to move your mercs. The game also implements day/night cycles and it is much 
 easier to sneak up on enemies at 3 am with mercs who are trained in night ops. There is even a 
 melee combat aspect (that you dont get to use very often) and mercs can be skilled in martial 
 arts, brawling, and use weapons such as knives, brass knuckles, and crowbars. I do miss insane 
 Reuben from the first game who came armed with the weed-whacker he used to kill his family and 
 the chainsaw  but you cant win them all I reckon.
  
  Your main goal in the game is to take the capital city and kill the evil monarch. To do this, you 
 pretty much need to take all the other cities on the map which you can garrison with militia to 
 prevent them from being retaken. Most cities have a mine that will provide you with daily income 
 so you can pay your mercs and buy equipment. There are also many side-missions in the cities and 
 the countryside that are usually fairly easy to accomplish, but add a lot of fun to the game. In 
 one city, a characters sister has been kidnapped and taken to a whorehouse and you have to rescue 
 her via stealth. In another, some tourists ended up in Arulco by accident and you have to escort 
 them back to the airport. You run across a secret laboratory, find POW prison camps, a group of 
 inbred hillbillies, bloodcat lairs, enemy SAM sites, and much more. While the graphics, as stated 
 before, do appear dated there is a large variety of weapons and equipment you can find and purchase. 
 Initially, you will be using mostly pistols and small SMGs but later you can find much deadlier 
 toys such as the .50 cal sniper rifle, mortars, assault rifles, mustard gas grenades, C4 explosives, 
 night-vision goggles, spectra vests, fully-automatic shotguns, and dozens more items. The sheer 
 amount of things to find and do more than makes up for the dated look.
  
  Jagged Alliance 2 is a game that you can finish and replay again and again. Even years after its 
 release, it still has a very large fan base who are constantly making new modules. Granted, you 
 need the Unfinished Business expansion to enjoy and create these modules so keep that in mind should 
 you choose to seek out those mods. JA2 is now fairly easy to find via digital download or from 
 online dealers. Remember to get patch 1.06 to avoid bugs.
  
  If you are a fan of strategy games, you do not want to pass this game up. On the lowest difficulty, 
 it should still prove a decent challenge to most gamers whereas the highest difficulty is insane 
 and suicidal. Some modern PCs will require tweaking to run this, but it is worth your time to figure 
 out how to get the software and hardware talking to each other. Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daggersquad
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 20, 2006 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Jagged Alliance 2 in many respects reminded of the fallout series, but I found JA2 to be for more 
 entertaining and thrilling.
  
  I have always been a fan of modern RPGs with guns and tactics, and JA2 pretty much blew me away. 
 From sneaking through the brush, to sniping enemy snipers, to ambushing a squad of militants, all 
 interweave to create the unique atmosphere.
  
  As the story goes, you lead a group of mercenaries (elite and not so elite) through the countryside 
 of Alruco capturing cities for resources until you finally take of the dictator herself. Almost 
 all options at your disposal: Silenced weapons (that ACTUALLY work) , Heavy weapons, Rebel Militia, 
 and of course a long list of varied mercenaries that you can utilize.
  
  I was most impressed with the little additions to the game, such as the ability to upgrade weapons 
 with attachments, body camoflage, etc.
  The firefights are extremely satisfying and when you have finally captured an enemy city you get 
 to see a little vignette of the Dictator tossing in anger. Splendid.
  
  I found the beginning of the game fairly difficult, but as you progress a little bit and acquire 
 some better weapons the game became very easy.
  
  Overall, if you love universal strategy on a grand scale you'll likely enjoy Jagged Alliance 2. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrZeb
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 11, 2006 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Some games I just can't help myself... I MUST write a review!
  
  JA2 Is one such game. I've played it through probably 5 or 6 times just because it's such an open-ended 
 game with so many different characters, side-quests, weapons, secrets and choices... I played it 
 for MONTHS!
  
  Graphics: 
  Ok, even by 2002's standard the graphics were not amazing or anything. Just simple isometric 2d 
 graphics with simple animations...
  
  Sound: 
  In terms of action it was nothing spectacular either... Gun-noise and Explosion-noises + the music 
 is pretty simple. 
  The voice-acting on the other hand is superb IMO! The voice-actors must have had a really good 
 time making all the stupid and funny comments that this game contains. They're just all so unique 
 and great that this is most likely one of the highlights of this game. It makes every person under 
 your command feel believable as individuals and really makes you grow fond of them. BIG + for sound 
 score.
  
  Gameplay: 
  YES! JA2's greatest achievment for sure! The game starts beutifully with an intro where you recieve 
 a large amount of cash for undertaking mercenary operations in a small country called Arulco. Arulco 
 is governed by an evil female dictator called Deidranna. So your task is clear, remove the ****
 
  But the beuty of this game is how you're then free to accomplish this task precisely as you see 
 fit! The game is composed of 2 layers, the map of Arulco for moving large distances, and the battle-maps 
 where you're free to move each of your mercenaries and interact with it's citizens and objects!
 
  You also have a laptop where you keep track of money, e-mails, online-shopping (weapons, flowers?) 
 recruitment, insurances... the list goes on. 
  
  As you progress through the game, take over towns, SAM-sites and complete side-quests you'll get 
 access to vehicles (Jeeps, helicopters... Icecream trucks?) , weapon upgrades, gadgets and more.
 
  
  There are day and night cycles so you can do covert night-ops, you train militia in towns (that 
 gains experience) , the RPG element let's you train your mercenaries in what ever you'd like them 
 to improve on. 
  
  Phew! There's just so much going for this games gameplay that I find it really hard to explain 
 it all. JA 2's strenght lies in all the details and incredible free decisions. You really feel 
 like you're waging guerilla warfare with kick-ass mercenaries, and doing it YOUR way!
  
  Value:
  This is THE best RPG/TACTICS game ever made in my honest opinion. So if you like the 
 genre I recommend it with all my gamer-heart! Even now, so many years since release, I still recommend 
 it. 
  JA2's an excellent example of how games dont need great graphics or sound to be GREAT!
  
  If 
 you've by chance missed out on this great title... Then maybe there's still time for you to repent 
 your sin. Check all the dusty shelves in your nearest game-store, get your copy of JA2 and prepare 
 yourself for the coolest bunch of mercenaries ever! IVAN RULEZ!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chriss1987
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Jagged Alliance 2 is one of the first game if have played on the pc, I was addicted after 1 day 
 of playing, could not stop playing. I have played it for 3 years, every single mode and with add-ons 
 and modifications.
  For the time it came the game had nice graphics, and the game-play is aw-some. 
  
  The storyline 
 is about a evil queen who owns a country and you will be hired and need to free the country. There 
 are allot of dialogues you can have with people and there is allot change in the terrain. So this 
 game is good for a lot of weeks entertainment.
  
  I recommend this game to all rpg/action lovers, it is unbelievable.
  
  Chris. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maagi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 23, 2005 3:59 pm PT
Review:  It's amazing how there is no game rivaling the greatness of Jagged Alliance 2. Silent Storm and 
 it's add-on, Sentinels, gave a very good try but still was left behind by Jagged Alliance. What 
 exactly is the force that has kept me coming back over and over again to this game?
  
  I'm an inventory junkie. There's no way going around it, I love meddling with my MERC's inventory. 
 Best times are in the beginning, when you don't have the best possible weapon for everyone, and 
 sometimes even ammunition is not to be seen in a while, and you have to give most suitable weapon 
 and gear for your men/women. Setting up the weapons, items and ammunition is half of the fun for 
 me, and it can take literally hours sometimes.
  
  The game focuses on you and your team of mercenaries, who've been hired to free the land of Arulco 
 from the grasp of tyrant Deidranna. After small resistance upon landing to the scene, you're supposed 
 to contact the resistance, and start making your way towards the eventual climax - killing Deidranna.
 
  Of course, doing such a thing, requires money. Besides upkeeping your gear, other money sinks 
 are your mercenaries, who do not endorse charity. Thankfully there's few exceptions around, including 
 your "home-made-mercenary", who's free after initial 3000$ price. The source for your wealth? Mines. 
 There's 6 mines (altough I'd consider only 5 of them available) around the map of Arulco for yours 
 to take, but first, your contact in the resistance recommends taking the control of the nearest 
 airport, which will help you start your war more easily, and to be able to get more equipment from 
 gunshop's, etc. And the war has begun...
  
  Gameplay is a mix of real-time and turn-based. As long as you do not see an enemy or they don't 
 see you, you'll be sticking with real-time mode. As soon as either you want to shoot an enemy or 
 theys spot you (there are some variations to this rule, though) , the game switches you to turn-based 
 mode, where everyone does whatever they do with points. The more points you have, the quicker you 
 are and you can do more. Balance in point spending is quite good, except for the original game's 
 pistols, which are pretty much useless after you get an SMG to everyone. They're just way too slow 
 to be used to get required results. However, this has been fixed in free fan-made addon's, such 
 as 'Deidranna Lives!' and 'Urban Chaos', among others.
  I personally do not see anything to complain about gameplay. It is sometimes bit awkward which 
 positions the MERC's are hidden behind an object and when they're not, but that's a thing with 
 all the turn-based games I've played so far. Only downside in the gameplay I see is the lack of 
 hand-to-hand combat, which is pretty much nonexistent, due the seemingly impossibility to sneak 
 up behind of someone. There are some extra moves for MERC's who have specialized to hand-to-hand 
 combat (such as around-the-house-kick) , but they seem to become pointless quite quick.
  
  Eventually there is plenty of guns to go around with, but the best times were still the early days 
 when everyone didn't yet have they assault rifles and LAW's with'em. You got your pistols, SMG's, 
 rifle's, sniper rifle's, assault rifle's, shotgun's, machine gun's, pretty much everything you 
 could hope for (altough maybe not all the models you'd hope for) and plenty to go with. Even when 
 looking at the game today, I don't see much to add to weapons, except more accessories and so on. 
 There are some, but still not enough, considering you should be taking out an army of a small country 
 with maximum of 18 men/women. But the accessories the original game has are pretty nifty. Got an 
 aluminum rod and spring? Give'em to decent mechanic, and you can get magnifically named 'Rod&Spring', 
 which you can attach to a gun to make the weapon shoot faster, which means it will take less action 
 points to shoot with. Got a steel tube and glue (might need something else too, can't actually 
 remember) ? Add'em together, and you get more length to your gun's barrel, increasing it's range.
 
  More of the accessories etc. are available in addon's I mentioned earlier, which, in my opinion, 
 make the game much better and a tad more realistic (vest has pockets where you can put certain 
 items, such as bottle of water, first aid kit, etc) .
  
  The original Jagged Alliance 2 was released in 1999, and I still go back to it time-to-time, to 
 play especially it's remarkable addon's the fans have made for it over the years. When thinking 
 about it, JA2 is one of the very few games that have kept me hooked over the years with it's great 
 gameplay and somewhat interesting MERC's.
  
  Now if you'll excuse me, I have inventory to meddle with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultra4ever
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 26, 2005 3:17 am PT
Review:  Jagged Alliance 2 is one of the games I was so happy with.
  It has action, rpg, strategy and many more elements in it and it is perfectly combined.
  The 
 story is really good, u must free the world from a dictator, and you can interact with other mercenaries 
 you hire and people you want to talk too.
  
  The missions are really good, and when you play this game it is like you are in that country you 
 are trying to free.
  You can free cities and when the people who live there are loyal enough, you can train them. So 
 the enemie can't just get the city back without a fight.
  
  For the time the game was made, the graphics are very nice.
  I have played this game for 2 years, 
 on easy hard, scifi mode and more.
  There are also alot of expansions, to say it short:
  A great game which you should try of you love this type of game!
  
  Chris. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 16, 2005 3:22 am PT
Review:  JA2 has a lot going for it: you hire a team of mercenaries that have very different personalities 
 and then work through a series of tactical battles across many many maps. Hiding in brush, kneeling, 
 camoflage, night-fighting and much more all actually really matter in your battle decisions. Its 
 impressive how smart your enemies are and there's even an optional sci-fi element that will add 
 to the types of enemies you will fight.
  
  There's little to complain about. The 2-D maps look good -- not amazing -- but good. You have to 
 earn money from capturing maps that have mines on them. If you dont have enough funds, your mercenaries 
 can't get paid and they may leave the team. Some folks didn't like this strategic level of management 
 of the team. I must admit I much prefered staging battles and upgrading the abilities of my mercenary 
 team than manging funds. When your team is injured you have to heal them over a period of time. 
 This will take them out of fighting at a time when you may really need your crack sniper or grenade 
 expert. But these are minor complaints.
  
  The only real issue is that it isn't always clear if you have line-of-sight with your weapons or 
 not. Sometimes you will think you can hit a target and the game thinks there is a tree in the way 
 no matter how many times you shoot.
  
  The game is long and there's plenty of reason to try this game if you aren't immedaitely turned-off 
 by turn-based games. Its easily one of the best games of its genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warp_2567
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 12, 2004 10:17 pm PT
Review:  NOTE: I rate games according to the time it was released, not present-tense.
  
  I know Jagged Alliance 2 is an old game right now, but I just had to rate it because it's THE most 
 realistic game I've EVER played. Even MGS3 or Morrowwind can't match up to it's details.
  
  I could make this review really long, but I'm lazy right now. I'll make it short.
  You are called 
 to save a small, poverty-stricken country from a ruthless dictator. You get on your laptop and 
 go on the A. I. M. website to see which mercenaries you can hire. Some are costly, and others are 
 cheap. You choose your individual mercs. You can also make your own custom mercenary by going to 
 the I. M. P. website and answer the hilarious questions they ask you. Once you assemble your unique 
 team, you designate their drop zone and wait for the next day...
  
  From then on you can liberate small towns from the ruthless army and you can train them to be town 
 militia so they will be able to defend themselves while you are away liberating other small towns. 
 In every town, there are NPC's you can talk to, and some of them are willing to sell/trade, or 
 repair things for you. You can buy bullet-proof armor, pistols, gun accessories, first-aid kits, 
 and tool kits or you can scrounge the bodies of your dead enemies, hoping to find something useful 
 you could use.
  
  There are many detailed things this game has to offer, and I didn't even list half the things in 
 it. I'd say, buy this game if you are playing no other games. Its outdated, so some people might 
 not be that interested in it.
  
  I give this game a 9.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: askme1now
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 14, 2004 2:03 am PT
Review:  This is the Half-Life of turn-based tactical strategy.
  
  Of all of the dozens of games I've played, this is the one I've replayed the most (six months solid, 
 at one point) . Published in '99, the graphics are crap now, and the sound is nothing to write home 
 about, but every other cylinder is here and firing great. When I play a fun RPG or strategy game 
 today, it will inevitably occur to me at some point to compare it to JA2 (and almost nothing measures 
 up) .
  
  The Gamespot review provides most of the plot and gameplay details. Below are my own summaries 
 of some of the game's high points.
  
  CHARACTERS:
  Building your own team of mercs is very well done. This isn't Ghost Recon, crunching math on a 
 calculator to figure out which team members' stats add up to the best marksmanship+heavy weps+whatever. 
 What you really care about is, who can you afford, and will they get along with everyone else. 
 Once you have a team that likes each other (i. e., no fighting, climbing morale, etc.) , then you 
 can train (in and out of battle) and equip virtually anyone into a terrific soldier. Watching that 
 peasant you recruited on Day 4 turning slowly into one of your point men by Day 70 is a fun, challenging, 
 painless process. Plus, and definitely one of my favorite things about JA2 (and something that 
 is blown miserably in every other TBTS game I've played) : the character growth system is very realistic 
 and fun. It works more like an RPG, where you actually have to use the skill/attribute to develop 
 it (instead of, say, giving skill points away at the end of each mission) . But unlike most RPGs, 
 there is little incentive to camp out and grind levels (e. g., by shooting cans and tree over and 
 over again) . The difficulty of the sectors you enter grows steadily but not steeply, so you have 
 great incentive to just learn by doing...
  
  WEAPONS/ITEMS:
  There are a ton of weapons, all enthusiastically though not always entirely accurately modeled. 
 There are also lots of items to buy, win, find, or build (e. g., weapon enhancements that increase 
 range or rate of fire) , again adding a simple but fun RPG flavor. Weapons degrade and can be repaired. 
 Collecting enemy equipment, repairing it, and selling them to pay for new ones is a very rewarding 
 process. I liked how the items kept you interested in the maps and quests without disturbing the 
 fast pace (unlike many RPGs) . I've replayed the game dozens of times and still haven't found or 
 built all the items...
  
  MAPS AND QUESTS:
  The best thing about the map is that even though the major landmarks are always the same (e. g., 
 the army base is in the same spot, the airports, the SAM sites, etc.) , the enemy placement is randomized, 
 giving the hot spots great replayability. There are a number of smaller side quests, a number of 
 which have effects on how you are treated in other parts of the country (e. g., how easy it is to 
 train militia in the towns you have captured) . One stand-out feature (and something terribly implemented 
 by later games like Fallout Tactics and Silent Storm) , is how the enemy patrols moving through 
 the world map give every cross-country trek a unique feel: most of the time, you can see a patrol 
 moving (although not always how big/strong it is) , so you can arrange an ambush by getting in its 
 path (allowing you to arrange your men in the tactical map before they arrive) , dodge it by making 
 a potentially exhausting detour, or charge straight in. The 200+ sectors are different enough that 
 each of these encounters feels unique. (By way of comparison, the 2004 TBTS game Silent Storm only 
 has a few "random" encounters that wait for you in plain view in the same spot on every map and 
 which recycle a half-dozen small maps for the battles.) The fact that you can drop from the strategic 
 map into the tactical level on any sector, battle or not, and often find side quests or clues or 
 items just makes for a far, far better experience than any other game in the genre, previous or 
 since.
  
  SUMMARY:
  A great turn-based squad-level tactical-strategy game with simple but well-implemented RPG-like 
 elements. Graphics are now very dated.
  
  Similar games: Fallout Tactics: Brotherhood of Steel (2001) ; Silent Storm (2004) ; X-Com: UFO Defense 
 (1995) . See my Gamespot reviews for FOT: BOS (fun) and S2 (pretty but very weak) . 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
