-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: James Bond 007: NightFire
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/jamesbond007nightfire/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  6, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.4, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 926 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Gearbox Software
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     Nov 28, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The PC version of NightFire makes an excellent case for leaving James Bond on console systems.

 It's been a really long time since we've seen a James Bond game on a computer. EA originally intended 
 to release The World Is Not Enough on the PC, but those plans were canceled and the game was released 
 only on console platforms. The world's most famous secret agent has made himself at home on console 
 systems, and perhaps he should have stayed there. NightFire is a solid entry on consoles, but the 
 PC version's straightforward nature and bungled multiplayer options make the game a passable experience 
 at best when compared with other first-person shooters for the PC.           NightFire for the 
 PC is missing some of the better sections of its console counterparts.    

  NightFire's single-player campaign is a story-driven first-person shooter. You'll see prerendered 
 video clips that provide context for the in-game events before and after most missions, and you'll 
 hear radio messages from your allies as your objectives change mid-mission. The actual plot focuses 
 on a global organization known as Phoenix International, which has been contracted to dismantle 
 nuclear missiles and clean up nuclear power plants around the world. But, like most video game 
 corporations, Phoenix is evil to the core, and the company's leader intends to overtake an orbital 
 missile defense platform and use it to essentially destroy the world. Of course, that's where James 
 Bond comes in. His objective is to defeat Phoenix and save the world from destruction. Along the 
 way, 007 will use a good collection of weapons and spy gadgets to achieve his goals. While the 
 game feels a little disjointed when compared with the more cohesive console versions, the story 
 is well told and contains enough twists, turns, and polygonal "Bond girls" to provide a level of 
 suave intrigue that's similar to what you'd expect to find in one of the films.   

  The console versions of the game include a few levels that take you out of the first-person shooter 
 experience, instead putting you behind the wheel of one of Bond's souped-up cars or in a helicopter 
 as a sniper. The PC version unfortunately doesn't have any of this. More first-person shooting 
 levels have been added in an attempt to make up for the omission, but the console versions' driving 
 levels do a great job of providing a change of pace, and without them, the game seems considerably 
 less exciting and original.   

  The level design in the single-player section of the game is solid enough. You'll occasionally 
 find more than one way to tackle a problem -- the difference is usually between simply running in 
 with your guns blazing or trying to find a stealthier way to achieve your goal. The objectives 
 are good and give you occasional chances to execute cool Bond-like maneuvers. In one case, you'll 
 have to avoid detection in a building full of guards, invisible alarm sensors, and video cameras. 
 You'll have tranquilizer darts to neutralize pesky guards, and your sunglasses can be set to night-vision 
 or infrared mode, which will let you see the alarm sensors. The stealth elements are well implemented 
 and offer a slight change of pace. NightFire has three different difficulty settings, but the major 
 difference between them is that the enemies become more accurate with their shots as the difficulty 
 level increases -- which is usually enough to tack on some extra challenge. While the story portion 
 of NightFire may be fairly well executed, it's definitely on the short side. Even on the highest 
 difficulty setting, experienced first-person shooter players should be able to make their way through 
 the game with few problems.   

  The single-player portion may be decent, but NightFire's multiplayer mode is pretty horrendous. 
 The main problems are ones that can and should be patched out at some point. Other players with 
 silenced weapons make absolutely no noise when firing at you -- not even the "thup thup thup" noise 
 of a silenced submachine gun is audible. Add to that the fact that there's very little onscreen 
 feedback to indicate that you are actually being shot, and you're left with a completely frustrating 
 multiplayer experience. The game has only a handful of fairly drab multiplayer maps, and it doesn't 
 have many multiplayer modes, either. While the console versions had a variety of different team-based 
 modes, here you're left with deathmatch, team deathmatch, and capture the flag. You can fill empty 
 slots with bots, but the bot AI isn't very good.   

  Graphically, 007: NightFire is passable. Probably the most striking element of the game is James 
 Bond himself. The character models throughout the game are done nicely, and the lead character 
 looks and moves just like Pierce Brosnan. Unfortunately, you only really get a chance to see the 
 fruits of this "cyber-scanning" labor in the game's blurry prerendered cutscenes. The characters' 
 faces are pretty expressive and animate well both when speaking and when reacting to the other 
 characters' spoken lines. Beyond the models, most of the game has a nice style to it, and the environments 
 all look believable enough.           A broken multiplayer mode seriously hurts the game.    

 
  While NightFire's Bond isn't voiced by his silver-screen counterpart, the Pierce Brosnan sound-alike 
 does an admirable job. The rest of the game's voice work is excellent, conveying just as much feeling 
 as the elaborate facial animation does. The music is suitably Bond-like, and the game's sound effects 
 are equally fitting. Marring the audio presentation is the in-mission speech, which was seemingly 
 recorded at a low bit rate, giving everyone the sound of low-quality streaming audio.   

  While NightFire is hurt by its relatively short length, the game's single-player mode is pretty 
 well constructed. However, the multiplayer component is more or less broken. The PC version of 
 NightFire makes an excellent case for leaving James Bond on console systems, as it really doesn't 
 compete with what the PC has to offer. Unreal Tournament 2003 and No One Lives Forever 2 are infinitely 
 better choices for multiplayer and single-player shooters, respectively.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (34 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Perth2008
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 6:57 pm PT
Review:  My first "non-military" FPS (Far Cry is the other waiting to be played) . 
  Hours of fun and frustration ... still have nightmares of being stuck in the elevator while being 
 shot at by bad guys and not knowing how to get out of that mess ... walkhroughs available at Gamespot 
 helped when intuition failed. 
  Recommended "Bond" game ... as others have commented you don't tend to see 007 walking around with 
 his guns drawn all the time ... so it is an FPS not a "spy game" per se. Stealth, which one would 
 put down as a key Bond/spy ingredient, is limited to avoiding CCTV cameras and the odd searchlight. 
 
  Nice gadgets and a fun premise ... Enemy AI varies ... so can be unpredicatable. Least enjoyable 
 part for me was the "slow motion" space station segment ... but if you get that far the end is 
 in sight!
  OVERALL: Great fun, but be prepared for occassional bouts of frustration ... as mentioned refer 
 to the walkthroughs when you get really stuck as "in game" hints seem to be a bit rare. Nice change 
 of pace from the COD and MOH series FPS games that I started out on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaguar_xj13
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 28, 2008 7:23 am PT
Review:  Probably the worst game of all time. Definatly the worst Bond game. A dissapointment that has stuck 
 in my head for years now and is still my lowest rated game. Major feature of driving the Aston 
 Martin that was advertised in all the console versions is removed from the PC version for some 
 unknown reason. Aweful handling game that should never have been released. Multiplayer is an absolute 
 disaster, half the time you don't know what is going on and the other half when you actually spot 
 an enemy your bullets will end up hitting everywhere except where you want them to go. EA should 
 be very ashamed (not that I rate EA in the first place) Please do not buy this game.
  
  A quote I once heard that pretty much sums up the stupidity of this game: "James Bond; he can save 
 the world, but he can't jump over a knee high rail". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onlineruler
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Great first person shooter that will appeal any James-Bond fan.
  The story is great it has some of the most beautifull cutscenes for the time and the story is interesting 
 and easy to follow.
  A compagny that defuses nuclear missiles, The Phoenix corporation will use the missiles to gain 
 control over the earth, this operation is called operation nightfire. The man in charge is Drake 
 the main villian of the game.
  You must gather information and you must infiltrate a party in drakes castle in Austria, the castle 
 is well defended.
  When your at the party you must Rendez-vous with Agent Nightshade and the spy-agent dominique. 
 You must take pictures of the guests and later you must gain acces to a suitcase with the console 
 in to fire the Nuclear missiles. When agent Nightshade is discovered you must save her and escape 
 with a cablecar then you must do a boss battle.
  The boss is a helicopter controlled by Drakes main bodyguard.
  The helicopter explodes and you 
 can escape.
  The next mission you must infiltrate Drakes private airplane and escape with his plane.
  The 
 next mission you must protect Matthew one of the people of Phoenix he will talk in change of protection 
 drake hired the Jaccuzy to kill Matthew.
  In the next mission you must infiltrate the Phoenix headquartes.
  The you must infiltrate drakes 
 central where Rook drakes bodyguard who is still alive, and you must kill him.
  You get betrayed and you are brought to the phoenix headquarters and you must try to escape.
 
  Then you must infiltrate Drakes island and deactivate a Nuclear missile and a jamming stadion.
 
  Later you must use a Nuclear missile to destroy his base and you must escape.
  In the last mission you must deactivate the last nuclear missiles and kill drake on his space stadion.
 
  The missions have other objectives but the main story doens't take long to complete.
  There is an offline skirmish but there aren't mush maps and the A. I. is stupid. Also the mini-vihicles 
 like a mini rc tank and a mini rc helicopter are no where to be found like in the console version 
 of the game, that was to bad because these can actually make the game a lot more fun the console 
 version had also a lot more maps like the cablecar map.
  There is a Lan mode but the multiplayer online is the most important, you can do a lot of cool 
 modes like conquest and capture the flag but the online community is small with only 20 servers 
 and most of them have got a password and a lot of lag, there are also cheaters online witch ruin 
 the online-play.
  There are also less missions like the missions with the jet-ski, the car chase in Paris, the helicopter 
 sniping in Paris and the car chase in japen, there are no driving missions in the game but the 
 console had those and they made the game a lot more fun, so the console version is better with 
 extra driving missions, more maps and mimi rc vihicles. but the pc version is still ok.
  The weapons are also cool, you can add like silencers on you gun, use each weapons secondary ability. 
 and more.
  The graphics are great and so is the sound and music.
  The game is maybe not as great as its console versions but it is still a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n7e19
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 26, 2008 10:38 pm PT
Review:  This game has fabulas graphics and other things so ggod. The games based on the world's most famous 
 superspy, James Bond, have taken a strange turn over the last several years: They've all been run-and-gun 
 first-person shooters. That may seem obvious, and yet the character himself certainly doesn't walk 
 around movie screens with a weapon for 90 minutes, shooting anything that gets in his way. While 
 most of the games haven't done a particularly good job of making you feel like a secret agent with 
 tons of options at your fingertips, these Bond shooters have always been at least competent, with 
 the wildly popular and then-revolutionary GoldenEye 007 for the Nintendo 64 being the lone standout. 
 The latest Bond game, James Bond 007: NightFire, inches itself away a bit from the run-of-the-mill 
 action script, injecting a more interesting storyline and more classically cool James Bond moves 
 into the mix. While any new Bond game seems doomed to live in the shadow of GoldenEye 007, this 
 one at least tries something different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atlanticman
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 21, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  This has to be the funniest game I have ever played. The graphics are horrible the AI is some of 
 the dumbest I have ever seen. The deaths are laughably fake and the graphics combined with the 
 speed of the falling make it even funnier! The first time I played this I expected it to be more 
 realistic than the already laughably fake console version, boy was I in for a pleasant surprise 
 ( No sarcasam) ! The first time I played this I laughed until I was weak on the floor ( this has 
 only been surpassed in unintentional humor by golden axe which, the first time I played it was 
 the hardest I have laughed in my entire life) the fact that they tried to make this game serious 
 only made me laugh harder. The AI is hillariously stupid ( not to say that the consoles wasn't) 
 running towards grenades to throw them back at you only to have the grenade blow up in their hands. 
 
  
  If there were a contest to decide the fakest Video Game series this game alone would win it for 
 the James Bond series.
  
  Forgive this unorganized review.
  
  -Atlanticman
  
 It wouldn't be James Bond if it wasn't fake!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anitrex
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 11:44 pm PT
Review:  The game play as well as the graphics are quite repetitive. You will be playing the same level three 
 to four times with differences that really dont matter. Such as in one of the missions you will 
 be making your way from the top of a building to its bottom while in some other mission you will 
 be given the work of making your way from the bottom to the top of the same building!!
  The graphics of the levels though repetitive are decent enough to give the realistic feel. The gameplay 
 as all the FirstPersonShooter games is the same bang bang thing throughout!! The game gets especially 
 frustrating when you are stuck at a checkpoint with minimal health. If you encounter such situations 
 than in most cases you will have to start the level all over again, which makes it even more repetitive!! There 
 is absolute absence of a co-operative gameplay in the single player missions!! There will be no 
 AI Characters to help you with your dirty work!! Even if present they are totally scripted and do 
 pre-rendered tasks such a sneaking inside a enemy building after you complete some required tasks!! So 
 you will be all alone and the scenery being so repetitive will also add to the boredom!!
  So my final verdict about this game is "Stay Away From This One"!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSuper
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 1:13 am PT
Review:  Well, i'm going to say it right here, right now : I am a Bond fan. I love the speedy car chases 
 and truly unbelievable stories combined with breathtaking action, so the moment I saw this game, 
 I bought it right away. Which was probably not my best decision.
  
  To make it short and clear, I'm just going to sum up some positive aspects and some negative aspects, 
 although the last kind is more frequent than the first one. The bad is obviously the poor physics 
 and collision detection: you can shoot a foe right in the stomach, he won't even move an inch. 
 If you shoot him 5 times in the stomach, he still won't move an inch. If you try to shoot him higher 
 than the chest, he suddenly starts overacting and immediatly drops dead. Another unpleasant aspect 
 of the physics is throwing grenades, come on people, let's be realistic about this, you CAN NOT 
 throw grenades in slow motion. Apparantly, James can, but the fact that his grenade flies with 
 a speed of 1 feet an hour is laughable, very laughable. Another major downfall is the multiplayer, 
 which i could describe in the following three wordsWhat the hell ?". I've never ever seen such 
 a poorly executed multiplayer, with possibly the worst collision detection i've ever seen, it made 
 me laugh and cry at the same moment. 
  
  Well, as positive aspect, i can tell you that the story is really good with some excellent cutscenes 
 and the entire game has a James Bond- glow to it. But in the end, you'll buy a shooter to shoot 
 and not for the story. As I am a Bond fan, i did enjoy this game, if it was only to get all the 
 cutscenes, but i am sure that non-fans will dislike this game, so to all the would-be buyers of 
 this game: just walk on when you see this lying in some retailer. Don't buy it ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: N00bOfAllTrades
Rating: 6.6
Date: May 18, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Nightifire is one of the earlier console/pc additions to series until it started being the same 
 many times.
  
  The gameplay is basic james bond gameplay use some guns usually basics rapid firing and pistols 
 some rifles, They don't feel very good when they shoot but are sometimes fun in multiplayer. The 
 shooting in james bond is auto-targeting which is'nt much fun and is pretty clunky which brings 
 gameplay down a lot. Overall pretty bland.
  
  Graphics in james bond are beeeeeeeee-land very basic gun models bad hand models and overall a 
 pretty poor looking game but it wasn't bad for an earlier game on consoles but disappointing on 
 PC.
  
  Sound in nightfire is pretty good. good voice acting, gun effects and music. The main problem with 
 the sound is that it does what it should and nothing else, but i could be a lot worse.
  
  value in nightfire is good with some long lasting multiplayer and a somewhat worthwhile story, 
 multiplayer battles are epic and fun but it really does'nt matter because of the auto-targeting 
 is very cheap and way to easy, i'd say more of a rental then a buy. but for pc owners i would buy 
 it.
  
  Tilt is awesome in james bond it is very well explained and everything seems easy to do controls 
 are well ewxplained and everything but it can't save the game from mediocrity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 7.1
Date: Feb 5, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  I was never a huge fan of the 007 movies, although I do believe that Pierce Brosnan did a very 
 good job with a fairly timeworn role, and Die Another Day was worth seeing just for Halle Berry. 
 I didnt catch the re-imagined version with Daniel Craig while it was in theaters, but Ill certainly 
 rent Casino Royale as soon as the DVD is available. Studying up on the films, however, isnt necessary, 
 since an appreciation for the gadgets-and-guns element of James Bonds allure is about all a person 
 will need to enjoy Nightfire. Although the designers pay lip service to the spys trademark double-entendres, 
 smooth demeanor, and breathy repartee, presenting Bonds charms through the somewhat clunky, puppet-like 
 animation of in-engine cutscenes reduces their inclusion to little more than filler.
  
  Nightfire is one of those games that qualifies as a hit due primarily to my all-inclusive love 
 of first-person shooters, but, with a bit of hindsight, actually bored me in spots. Im referring, 
 of course, to the stealth segments, which are never high on my list of favorite FPS features. The 
 Night Shift chapter  in which the only usable item in Bonds arsenal is the effective but severely 
 limited tranq dart disguised as a fountain pen  was a frustrating exercise in success/failure 
 experimentation, wonky timing, and, to a very large extent, taking advantage of a few loopholes 
 in the enemy AIs performance. For example, I could remain unnoticed by both guards and cameras 
 by crouching down in the middle of a brightly lit hallway, but standing in that same spot was often 
 a guaranteed bell-ringer that ended the mission immediately; not that Im complaining, since ducking 
 at the right moment often spared me the unwelcome effort of a do-over. Still, since I played the 
 excellent sneaker Hitman 2 just prior to Nightfire, I found myself wondering why I couldnt just 
 borrow a sleeping guards uniform and have done with the whole knee-walking fiasco.
  
  Im happy to report that, along with the fountain pen, Nightfire utilizes Qs treasure chest of 
 miraculous toys masquerading as commonplace objects very often. A keen laser wristwatch comes into 
 play for a number of locked doors and a cell phone doubles as an extremely useful grappling hook. 
 The x-ray mode on Bonds stylin shades was a godsend when it came to timing the movement patterns 
 of those doggone ubiquitous Night Shift guards. I was satisfied with the frequency with which Qs 
 gadgets were employed; the Santas Workshop products in the NOLF series served as more of an alternative 
 to gunfire, so there were entire levels in which I, regrettably, didnt even need them.
  
  The gun battles in Nightfire are mostly unremarkable, arranged as they are with the standard FPS 
 precepts of clear room, heal up, sally forth, repeat, repeat, repeat. When in combat, the game 
 comes across as a ValuSoft bargain title crafted by people with a bit more skill and resources. 
 The lean function doesnt work properly, but stepping out into the open is a fast path to fatal 
 perforation. Nightfires HUD frequently misbehaves by dropping the ammo count and aiming reticle 
 after quickloads. Still, some scenarios were quite memorable: covering Zoe Nightshades trek through 
 a fuel depot with a sniper rifle was a hoot, and Bonds rickety ride on the roof of a collapsing 
 elevator had me bouncing anxiously in my seat.
  
  Much ado was made over the decision to leave out the driving segments of Nightfire when porting 
 the game over to the PC. I didnt think much of the revisions until I played a little bit of Agent 
 Under Fire on my sons Xbox. Now I agree with anyone who deems the changes ill-advised, since I 
 really enjoyed the automotive interludes in AUF and dont quite understand why they were excised 
 from Nightfire. Although I no longer follow Bonds travails very closely, an encyclopedic familiarity 
 with the film series is far from necessary to understand the mechanics and relationships in Nightfire. 
 The PC version of Nightfire was adequately entertaining as both a shooter and an extension of the 
 007 universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titanic100
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 25, 2007 2:04 am PT
Review:  The game play. the game is very easy to play and I did not feel challenged in this game, The graphics 
 are not amazing and James bond looks a bit square and the same with the enemy the helicopter and 
 plane look very square to me, so I think the graphics are not very good. The sound is not amazing 
 but not bad the guns give the right sound to it and the walking on the snow at the start of the 
 game is ok There is not a lot I really want to say about this game but it is disappointing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: federico06
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 17, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  As It's Game-play Is Good you will see yourself in the middle of the game screaming **** to James 
 because the story and other details are just stupid. You Are Dead meat in some parts and in others 
 the enemies can't even hit you. The only thing that I rescued from this game are The weapons and 
 the Sound of them XD.
  The other things just get you bored as you are in a room and 50 enemies appear and can't kill you. 
 The Only thing I can say to you is that don't buy this game if you are hard fans of the series 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bastila56
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 16, 2006 12:15 am PT
Review:  Call me a Bond fan (I've been called worse,) but I found it to be a decent game. I wish I'd thought 
 about writing this sooner, like right after I'd finished playing it. I'll admit... I got it from 
 a bargain bin. Does it really matter? I'd read the reviews when it first appeared and decided not 
 to get it, but fairly recently while surfing for something else, I spied it, scored it, and consumed 
 it. I found it tasty! Sure, there was a glitch or two, but nothing unplayable. I found the change 
 from FPS to third refreshing... but some of the gimmicks got old quickly. Waiting for the sparks 
 to dissipate was painful, as was having to start over again when burned. On a scale of 1-10, I'd 
 rate it a 7. Decent play certainly for the price I paid... which only goes to prove a point, if 
 you wait long enough, you might just get what you paid for. Playing James Bond, even in a PC video-game? 
 Priceless. I was shaken, not stirred! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlyrYaKA
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 10, 2006 6:41 am PT
Review:  This was the first fps I ever bought and to this date the best I've ever bought. True the gameplays 
 uninspired but when you've never played fps before you really appreciate it. The stories straight 
 out of a movie fighting some brazilian orphan lanning to take over the world. I recently bought 
 the ps2 version and can say that that was really poor in comparison. Graphics are good and sound 
 was straight out of hollywood, good guns, camp speech and dodgy one liners.
  In addition the multiplayer is great and once the brilliant story is completed playing against 
 bots by yourself is tremendous fun, just as good as going online and blasting some fool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supermario-2000
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 10, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  I picked up this game in an EA Movie Collection. Hey, a 1st person shooter for James Bond! That 
 sounds neat. I always thought FPSes were better on PC anyways. And I had a good time. It was nice 
 to sit down over the weekend and pretend that I was literally in the shoes of 007. Gameplay - It 
 controls like any other FPS. You can use a number of gadgets to find little secrets. And I thought 
 the level design was pretty interesting even if it was used more than once. Graphics: Graphics 
 weren't gorgeous, but I've seen many worse games, and this one was definitely passable. I never 
 experienced any slowdown. The cutscenes were pretty good too. Sound: It used some great 007 music 
 in the background, and I thought the weapons sounded pretty accurate. The voice acting was done 
 well I'd say with an actor doing a great Pierce Brosnan voice. Value: It seems that this is what 
 Gamespot liked the least about this one. I'll admit, the game was kind of short, and the missions 
 weren't as varied as the console version, but it was still a highly satisfying 007 experience. 
 Aside from different difficulty settings, (I'm not big on online multiplayer) there may not be 
 a whole lot that brings you back to this game. I enjoyed it. I didn't go into it expecting the 
 most awesome James Bond experience and I walked away pretty satisfied. I don't think it deserves 
 all the heat it seems to get. It was a nice diversion that I don't mind replaying every now and 
 then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saumik
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 8, 2006 12:29 am PT
Review:  A game originated from the James Bond Series. 007: NIghtfire equipped with all the gadget a spy 
 can handle. Laser, grapple, stunner, micro-camera, night-vision and heat-vision glasses, and more. 
 Hey, dont think a spy only play with gadgets. There are more weapons u can use. And they come 
 in many types, which include everything from a briefcase sentry gun to a weapon that enables you 
 to shoot missiles and then guide them with a camera. Pistols, sub machineguns, assault rifles, 
 sniper rifle, rocket launcher... they are too handy if u can use them properly.
  
  The game loads slower in low end PCs. But after the loading is finished it runs very smoothly. 
 I noticed that even in a RIVATNT2 32MB graphics card it delivers a good quality.
  
  May b the game is too easy even in harder difficulties. Enemy AI is not good enough to chase a 
 SPY like BOND. Sometimes they fire at walls, if you are hiding behind it. May b their bullets can 
 penetrate walls. Who knows? But still u can find some challenges. In some parts of the game enemies 
 are more cautious and well grouped. Specially the guys with the mini-guns. They fire a gun thats 
 more like a gatling machinegun, but it is small. Hey u can also try this weapon. Remember? Ur agent 
 007. So wassup?
  
  It has a nice storyline. In campaign 007 chases the leader of the PHOENIX network. The chase starts 
 from a Snowy Castle and ends in outer space. U can use stealth. Or some gamers can play messy. 
 Its up to the player choice. But either way seemed same to me. At later levels I played this game 
 without any stealth.
  
  Wow! The Bond Girls are here. As player plays the role of the super spy. New characters can be 
 found. The galz are helpful at some parts. But sometimes u can get bored by covering them from 
 enemy fire.
  
  Cut scenes are not generated by the game engine, they are animated movie files. So they are more 
 colorful and good for a gamer too watch after his/her successes.
  
  Overall 007: NIghtfire is for new gamers. For a hardcore gamer its too easy. But who loves the 
 007 series, it can be fun.
  
  So, if you are a Fan of Agent 007. Lets try it. It should bring enough fun for u. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FPSGunnerDude
Rating: 5.2
Date: Nov 1, 2006 11:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is not good. I almost decided to just uninstall it, but I finished it and people that 
 finish it should get a some kind of a prize.
  
  The whole game seems cheap, like it was made be somebody as a mod. Certainly not worthy of a James 
 Bond, EA, or Gearbox. Using the gadgets and stealth is mostly annoying. Shooting is eratic and 
 some of the guns felt like they were jamming as you fire them. Cutscenes and characters are boring. 
 Enemy AI is laughably dumb, as they keep yelling the same commands and running around looking stupid. 
 The most enjoyable part of the game was when I blew up one of the obligatory explosive barrels 
 and the enemy shot up in the air like a rocket.
  
  Only get this game if you have played all the others and you find this one in a trash can, which 
 is where you will find the copy I bought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Defender_502
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 2, 2006 4:55 pm PT
Review:  James Bond has had a successful career on other consoles, but his appearances on the PC have been 
 limited.
  
  After the success of GoldenEye 007, a number of first-person shooters started cropping up, starring 
 the irascible 007. James Bond 007: NightFire continued the tradition started by its predecessor.
 
  
  As 007, the player maneuvered through multiple levels fraught with enemies. Because the game featured 
 James Bond, there were plenty of gadgets from Q Branch to make use of. The gadgets were immediately 
 available, which was a welcome change from games that require the player to earn new attributes 
 through gameplay.
  
  Some of the gadgets included x-ray specs, a cell phone which concealed a grappling hook, and the 
 ubiquitous watch laser. One unique attribute about the watch that was only available on the PC 
 release of James Bond 007: NightFire was that it displayed the actual time, as set on the PC's 
 internal clock.
  
  GameSpot, and the public at large for that matter, didn't regard the PC release of James Bond 007: 
 NightFire very well. I thought it was a fun game, especially considering the wide variety of weapons 
 at Bond's disposal, and the perpetual use of gadgets.
  
  The levels were entertaining and took 007 to some unique places like Japan and outer space.
  
 
  Unfortunately, due to the poor sales of the PC release of James Bond 007: NightFire, it seems as 
 if 007 will not return to the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oilwater8
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 13, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Nightifire is one of the earlier console/pc additions to series until it started being the same 
 many times. 
  
  The gameplay is basic james bond gameplay use some guns usually basics rapid firing and pistols 
 some rifles, They don't feel very good when they shoot but are sometimes fun in multiplayer. The 
 shooting in james bond is auto-targeting which is'nt much fun and is pretty clunky which brings 
 gameplay down a lot. Overall pretty bland.
  
  Graphics in james bond are beeeeeeeee-land very basic gun models bad hand models and overall a 
 pretty poor looking game but it wasn't bad for an earlier game on consoles but disappointing on 
 PC.
  
  Sound in nightfire is pretty good. good voice acting, gun effects and music. The main problem with 
 the sound is that it does what it should and nothing else, but i could be a lot worse.
  
  value in nightfire is good with some long lasting multiplayer and a somewhat worthwhile story, 
 multiplayer battles are epic and fun but it really does'nt matter because of the auto-targeting 
 is very cheap and way to easy, i'd say more of a rental then a buy. but for pc owners i would buy 
 it.
  
  Tilt is awesome in james bond it is very well explained and everything seems easy to do controls 
 are well ewxplained and everything but it can't save the game from mediocrity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kighod
Rating: 7
Date: May 13, 2006 8:29 am PT
Review:  Is true the console version has more single player missions but the pc version is ok. The pc version 
 features online multi player which is awesome. It also gives you good first person shooter missions. 
 The game is kind of old and the graphics a kind of lame these days. I bought this game for 15 bucks 
 which was in a bundle with the EA Games collection including LOTR Return of the King, Command & 
 Conquer Red Alert 2, Sim City 3000, Need Speed Hot Pursuit 2. Is worth it. If you don't like this 
 game I don't know what your thinking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firefox246
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 4, 2006 8:32 am PT
Review:  I Feel that 007: Nightfire for PC is extremely underrated. Although it is not all the console version 
 was, it wasn't supposed to be. There weren't any vehicle levels, but they were replaced by levels 
 almost as interesting (The Airfield, the Phoenix Tower Elevator) . This is the only 007 game the 
 PC has ever had, and for that, it was pretty good. The story-line is interesting, the missions 
 are fun, and the multiplayer was great, and adds a lot of replay value.
  
  At this point the game is probably about 10 bucks, and is worth a purchase.
  It is also availible 
 in the EA Games collection, containing a good collection of games (Black and White, Freedom Fighters, 
 MOH: AA) for a mere 20 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: __alexx__
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 26, 2006 6:03 pm PT
Review:  This game deserves a rent at best. 
  This game is really boring. It feels like it drags all the damn time. It's really frustrating to 
 navigate through the levels, they're all confusing and ugly looking. I mean there are different 
 types of areas you will explore such as the beach or even space. But they get really repetitive 
 and once again, boring. James Bond looks pretty good on other hand, and so do the cut-scenes. But 
 they still won't "wow" you. The story is okay, but is still very simple. Some Russian villain is 
 trying to destroy the world and James Bond is out to save it. One word: typical. The sound is pretty 
 bad. There is no music in levels whatsoever, the only thing that makes it a little good is the 
 voice acting. But still, it's not enough to make James Bond: Nightfire a good PC game. In fact, 
 none of the things in Nightfire are. So the best you can do is rent it and see what it's like, 
 but I highly recommend to get the console version instead. None of them are that good anyway, but 
 that's if you really want to get this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lovelifelong
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 8, 2006 11:33 pm PT
Review:  In the mission PHOENIX RISING, my game automatically stops while loading and it says time error. 
 what is it ??? HELP!!!! what should i ust do to fix this problem.
  There after entering a a lift it starts loading and after sometime the game stops and says RUNTIME 
 ERROR. SO HELP ME FIX THIS PROBLEM.
  
  In the mission PHOENIX RISING, my game automatically stops while loading and it says time error. 
 what is it ??? HELP!!!! what should i ust do to fix this problem.
  There after entering a a lift it starts loading and after sometime the game stops and says RUNTIME 
 ERROR. SO HELP ME FIX THIS PROBLEM.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exodia_Necross
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 31, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  I got this game for only 9.99. I mistook it for 007 Agent Under Fire (which is good) . This is nothing 
 compared to it.
  
  So, that was a while ago. Today, I'm thinking: DAMN! I should re-install that game because the 
 guns look cool! First I played multiplayer. The bots are messed because I'm shooting this woman 
 in a gown, and she doesn't really die. I thought "maybe she just likes to live". That's alright. 
 A couple deaths later, I get a pimp-out assult rifle. Now I'm happy, because I see the woman in 
 a gown. I get maybe 3 shots before she kills me again. It's like counterstrike, but without the 
 reallism, blood etc.
  
  So I decided to play the single player missions.
  
  ***SPOILERS***
  
  You start off by infiltrating this guys castle for some reason. This woman 
 tells you to find a way in without being spoted. She says "maybe you can use that truck!" This 
 truck is driving pretty slowly. I jump on top of it, slide off and furiously press the use key 
 at the door. It doesn't open. I get spotted and shot at by a crap load of guys, but my health is 
 only down by 2 things. That's easy mode for you.
  
  So now the truck is at the top of the hill outside the entrance of the castle. I think, I'll have 
 a walk through the truck. So I decided to walk throught the truck. I went through the truck.
  
  Once your inside, funny stuff happens. For one part you have to take a picture of all 4 of 
 the female guests with you lighter-watch. I took a picture of T&A.
  
  Then the best part happened. When you have to shoot alot of guys they die. I try to open a door, 
 but there is a dead body there, but I didn't know he was dead cause the door is closed, ya know? 
 Basically, I'm using the door, but I'm really using a dead body on the other side of the door. 
 So when I open the door and I'm surprised to find a dead guy there. I press the use button on him 
 and he still talks to you. "Sir, the party is downstairs."
  Dead people talk to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gumpy500
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 31, 2006 8:43 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game after playing it on a friend's Gamecube. I thought the game was fun, and the 
 PC one would be just as good. This is definitely not the case.
  
  The PC version is basically the console one with all of the goodness stripped from it. The graphics 
 are poorly done, character animations are choppy at best, and the textures just don't seem right. 
 The car levels are gone from this game as well, which is annoying.
  
  The final battle is even weaker too. Rather than taking down the Nightfire satellite, you just 
 shoot the guy. Really exciting. Multiplayer over LAN is somewhat entertaining, but nowhere close 
 to the console multiplayer. Overall, a very shoddy effort at bringing an already mediocre Bond 
 game to the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloatedoriface
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 7, 2006 9:12 pm PT
Review:  I have played this game on playstation 2, Xbox, Gamecube, and pc and out of all of them i would 
 say pc is the best version it has better graphics and better multiplayer. Out of the console versions 
 i would say gamecube is the best followed by xbox and then playstation 2. The campaign on the pc 
 is alot differant then on the consoles but still made a good overall game. One of my only problems 
 with it is the cliche' use of stealth. (cmon we have seen this in almost every bond game to date.) The 
 AI is retarded but then again it is on the console versions as well. The Graphics arent that great 
 but still better then on the console versions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 23, 2005 1:03 pm PT
Review:  James Bond has been in and out of the gaming world, rising to fame with the N64 game, "Goldeneye" 
 then pretty much staying quiet. With the release of 007: Nightfire, Bond fans have a lot to expect 
 to a sequel of Goldeneye. Luckily, Nightfire succeeds graphically and gameplay-wise but it's sexual 
 content does not really appeal very well.
  
  The graphics of the game are well done, and the areas look realistic and believable. One of the 
 early missions takes place in a mansion and is very fun to play in. The character designs are very 
 well done and fine details can be spotted from far away. The only problem is that in large areas 
 the frame rate would drop down and the game would become choppy, even on a fast machine. Other 
 than that single flaw, the graphics were well done.
  
  Audio in the game varies. Sound effects is very good and all the weapon shots and other effects 
 sound very realistic. In fact, sometimes you can sneak up to two people talking and make out their 
 conversations, and this actually helps in the game when you learn something from their talk. Music, 
 on the other hand, is the downside of the audio. The music is looped very obviously and is very 
 boring and repetitive. When a shootout starts, the music will change to a fast paced tune, but 
 it just isn't enough to bring up the boring tracks.
  
  The gameplay is mission-oriented as with other Bond titles. Although the game only has 9 levels, 
 the objectives are evenly distrubuted throughout the missions and each mission has it's share of 
 objectives. Also, each mission takes place in a seperate place (with a few exceptions) so the game 
 won't get boring. However, while some objectives are fun, others drag the game with boring tasks 
 such as the "find a computer and hack into it" type. Some of them are also unclear and usually 
 beaten by chance instead of actually knowledge of what to do. Weapons are plentiful but mostly 
 the same and get boring very quickly.
  
  The worst aspect of the game is the sexual content in it. Bond seemed kind of perverted throughout 
 the levels, staring at women's backsides, commenting on how tight their dresses are, and kisses 
 multiple amounts of women madly throughout the game. It also doesn't help that in one level, "helpless" 
 women are scattered around the level and you must rescue them. In fact, one is in a bath when you 
 rescue her, while she is wearing a much revealing towel. Was this all really necessary?
  
  Basically, 007: Nightfire tries to live up to it's N64 predecessor but does not succeed very well. 
 It adds nothing new to the FPS genre and it's content is very questionable. While the game might 
 be pleasing to look at, graphics are not all that make up a game. It is very disappointing to see 
 a game with so much potential be ruined as it was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blahboy01
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2005 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Yes, james bond is back, and better then ever. In this game you will fight villians, make out with 
 bond babes, and make desperate escapes.
  You'll keep playing this game just for the A. I. difficulties. Yes, after awhile you'll get bored; 
 and when that happens you can just take it online. This is the part you will love. 
  If you want cramped spaces, choose the office. If you like large open spaces choose romania. (my 
 favorite) If you are particulary good at sniping you are probably gonna be hearing, "Holy Crap! 
 look out people theres like 3 people in the area" This is a really rewarding message, because then 
 you can brag and say, "nope just me." and they will drop jaws in awe. The advantage of being good 
 at one weapon, or strategy comes in when you join a clan and get recruited for a specific job. 
 There is offensive, this job usually means ur carrying shotguns, rockets, and grenades. There is 
 defensive, this means you guard your base (or flag if your playing ctf) with mines, and machine 
 guns. There is the classic sniper, the name says it all. You sit back with a drink and pick off 
 anyone who comes into your vision. There is also the stealth guy, his job is only necessary when 
 playing ctf. He uses stealth, speed, and gadgets to get to the flag and deliver it safely to your 
 base.
  If you want it all, i suggest playing Capture the Flag. It'll keep you occupied for hours and hours. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bond007dude
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 13, 2005 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Mk, the first time i played this game i never played the videogame version. EA games i have grown 
 to learn is no replacement for RARE. This game was sloppily put together in probably less than 
 5 weeks. It could have been a great game if they had spent some time on it.
  
  Gameplay-Aaugh! This really bites. First off, the AI is dumber than a stone on drugs. The will 
 stick out their arms through walls, shoot their own guys, walk repetive paths, not move towards 
 you when they should, etc. The second thing that makes it just AWFUL is that the enemies usually 
 don't react whatsoever to your shots, they just give an occasional grunt or pain noise. The most 
 they'll do is give a cheesy repetive pain animation. On top of that there is no blood or sparks 
 so its near impossible to tell if your hitting someone or not. If you thought that wasnt enough, 
 theyll eventually make you try and hit guys 4 times in the head with a pistol. Try that one on 
 for size! Especially if you dont have an absolutely AMAZING videocard it lags like a MOTHER! ( 
 Actually is lags more like a crippled GRANDmother.)
  
  The games multiplayer isnt very good either. If you dont have that simply AMAZING videocard AND 
 cable internet then you'll have to suffer from:
  -Minutes of freezing (im serious too)
  -Guns not working properly (they wont shoot, they wont do alternate fire, it freezes everytime 
 you shoot, guns not drawing correctly, it plays the incorrect sound, ect.)
  -No music and sound lags like a mother
  -No enemy damage indicator or enemy pain fx
  -No pain 
 animations
  -Constant sighing noises
  -No difference between any of the characters (they all sound the same and all players have the 
 same arm)
  -Mouse lag
  -General Lag
  -All the problems or the single player (like no sparks)
  
  Graphics-Would be nice but would 
 like to see some sparks. By the way where the heck did Gamespot get the screenshots? Thats not 
 the version I have anyway...
  
  Sound- Another slightly dissapointong aspect of the game. As I mentioned before earlier, everyone 
 sounds the same. As for the single player, the gun sounds are alright but Pierce Brosnan is not 
 present in the game (and you wonder why.)
  
  Value- Overall, this game has some nice levels and is a little bit more nostalgic than the videogame 
 version, but it many shortcomings bring it down.
  
  Tilt- I gave it a 9 just to be fair, cuz at some point it did have potential. (And also I think 
 James Bond is mega cool)
  
  Overall, the game has nice maps, a decent selection of weapons and an above average storyline, 
 and some good music, but nothing can save it from its pathetic gameplay.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: michaelpont27
Rating: 3.4
Date: Nov 26, 2005 3:12 am PT
Review:  When i first bought this game i had high hopes, becuase i really wanted to be the stunning jamesbond 
 with all the driving, shooting etc. But when i started it it was very dissapointing. The storyline 
 is ok but the graphics etc were very not enternaing. The diffuculty was great with them getting 
 harder torwards then. You learn how to play it very easily. The thing that made it most dissapointing 
 was the fact there was only a couple of ways of doing things, you didn't have the freedom to go 
 here and there. Also another dissapointing for the PC version was there were no driving levels.
 
  
  In the end i would give this game 3.4. If you really want to try it, just rent it for a day or 
 two but i must say do not buy it!!!!
  
  Michael Pont Home Hill QLD ponty_91@hotmail. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 6.4
Date: Sep 25, 2005 4:41 pm PT
Review:  I first tried this game on Gamecube, and thought it was great. The best was the vehicle parts, 
 which contained entertaining drive-by-shooting. When I tried the game on the PC I was really dissapointed, 
 this game is just boring.
  
  
  The graphics are good, with nothing extraordinary, but with okay animations and so on. 
  
  
 The music is great with a theme song that comes in a Bond-like beginning of the game where hot 
 girls passes by the screen with guns and other weapons. The sound effects are pretty good, but 
 nothing special. 
  
  The gameplay is where James Bond: Nightfire really dissapoints. The PC version doesn't have any 
 car driving which the console versions actually have. The PC version is horrible, and contains 
 a huge aamount of loading... sequences. It's loading... as loading... if loading... they loading... 
 never loading... leave loading... you loading... alone loading...! In one mission it's almost a 
 loading... sequence when entering every single room! And that's just to much. The game could have 
 been great if it looked more like the console versions.
  
  + 
  Good graphics, and the Bond opening of the game is great. The music is good and recreates a sort 
 of Bond-feeling. 
  
  - 
  No driving. To much loading. No Bond-feeling except from the music. The game is boring!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudeeemadudbomb
Rating: 5.1
Date: Jul 4, 2005 2:24 am PT
Review:  I got this game for only 9.99. I mistook it for 007 Agent Under Fire (which is good) . This is nothing 
 compared to it.
  
  So, that was a while ago. Today, I'm thinking: DAMN! I should re-install that game because the 
 guns look cool! First I played multiplayer. The bots are messed because I'm shooting this woman 
 in a gown, and she doesn't really die. I thought "maybe she just likes to live". That's alright. 
 A couple deaths later, I get a pimp-out assult rifle. Now I'm happy, because I see the woman in 
 a gown. I get maybe 3 shots before she kills me again. It's like counterstrike, but without the 
 reallism, blood etc.
  
  So I decided to play the single player missions.
  
  ***SPOILERS***
  
  
  You start off by infiltrating this guys castle for some reason. This 
 woman tells you to find a way in without being spoted. She says "maybe you can use that truck!" 
 This truck is driving pretty slowly. I jump on top of it, slide off and furiously press the use 
 key at the door. It doesn't open. I get spotted and shot at by a crap load of guys, but my health 
 is only down by 2 things. That's easy mode for you.
  
  So now the truck is at the top of the hill outside the entrance of the castle. I think, I'll have 
 a walk through the truck. So I decided to walk throught the truck. I went through the truck.
  
  Once your inside, funny stuff happens. For one part you have to take a picture of all 4 of 
 the female guests with you lighter-watch. I took a picture of T&A.
  
  Then the best part happened. When you have to shoot alot of guys they die. I try to open a door, 
 but there is a dead body there, but I didn't know he was dead cause the door is closed, ya know? 
 Basically, I'm using the door, but I'm really using a dead body on the other side of the door. 
 So when I open the door and I'm surprised to find a dead guy there. I press the use button on him 
 and he still talks to you. "Sir, the party is downstairs."
  Dead people talk to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xander1972
Rating: 6.4
Date: Mar 8, 2005 1:41 am PT
Review:  This game is really boring. It feels like it drags all the damn time. It's really frustrating to 
 navigate through the levels, they're all confusing and ugly looking. I mean there are different 
 types of areas you will explore such as the beach or even space. But they get really repetitive 
 and once again, boring. James Bond looks pretty good on other hand, and so do the cut-scenes. But 
 they still won't "wow" you. The story is okay, but is still very simple. Some Russian villain is 
 trying to destroy the world and James Bond is out to save it. One word: typical. The sound is pretty 
 bad. There is no music in levels whatsoever, the only thing that makes it a little good is the 
 voice acting. But still, it's not enough to make James Bond: Nightfire a good PC game. In fact, 
 none of the things in Nightfire are. So the best you can do is rent it and see what it's like, 
 but I highly recommend to get the console version instead.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: squeekikleen
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 27, 2005 3:59 am PT
Review:  As a dedicated Bond fanatic, I was really hoping that this game would be enjoyable; unfortunately, 
 this game is as disappointing as a licensed game can get. They got everything wrong: the game felt 
 buggy, the gameplay was weak, and the story was unimaginative. I also felt regret that the driving 
 sequences were left out. Judged according to other FPS games this was mediocre at best and too 
 easy  everything was poorly done such as the AI and level design. There are no surprises at it 
 follows, unsuccessfully, basic FPS conventions  the only difference is that there is a rating 
 system with unlockable content according to how you play and the number of Bond moves you perform. 
 It has gadgets and Bond girls but it is not enough to help its many flaws. Moreover, the game 
 is way too short and I think I completed well before the 6 hour mark; in fact, it felt more like 
 an expansion pack than a full game. On the flip side, the graphics are satisfactory  Bond and 
 a few characters look well detailed but the rest is bland. The sound is good with the usual Bond 
 soundtrack.
  
  I remember really being excited upon the fact that Bond was finally coming to the PC. Unfortunately, 
 that excitement ended abruptly. I think EA games had predicted the game would sell on its license 
 alone (and maybe they were right)  I will definitely look twice (maybe thrice) before buying into 
 it again after this lacklustre effort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow_of_fire
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 11, 2004 8:39 pm PT
Review:  I can't say much about this game. It sure was a waste of time I couldn't even finish the game, 
 it started out to be fun, but as time passed on it got boring and boring. It was getting harder 
 and harder.
  
  The details about this game are that this is a well but too hard game. The graphics in this game 
 are okay. The gameplay has no problems, except one-no cheat! I couldn't get the cheats to work 
 and that's what screwed up the game. I was on the sixth level when I stopped playing the game and 
 I was impossible to finish the level. I was very pleased with the guns and everything else, such 
 as the bad guys and stuff... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
