-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Jaws Unleashed
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/jaws/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The game's brand of violent role reversal has its amusing moments.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lousy controls make performing the majority of mission tasks an exercise in frustration.
 in-game camera is beyond irritating.
 mission goals are just plain stupid.
 mediocre graphics and sound.
 glitches and bugs make frequent appearances.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 10, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.8
Critic Score: 6.0, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 6.0, 240 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Majesco Games
Developer: Appaloosa Int.
Genre: Action
Date:     Oct 18, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Jaws Unleashed was a truly awful game on consoles, and it's no better six months later on the PC. 
 

  Displayed on the various loading screens of Jaws Unleashed are a number of trivia bits pertaining 
 to the original  Jaws  film. One particularly excellent piece of trivia cites that the writer of 
 both the  Jaws  novel and screenplay, Peter Benchley, never would have written the original story 
 had he known anything about realistic shark behaviors. But while history has been kind to  Jaws 
 ' legacy, in spite of its creative liberties, Jaws Unleashed, the action game based on the film 
 license and developed by Appaloosa International, won't be getting any such pass. And Appaloosa 
 doesn't get to excuse its awful game by claiming not to know anything about making a fun action 
 adventure starring an ocean-based lead character, either. This is the maker of the Ecco the Dolphin 
 games, otherwise known as some of the best underwater adventures ever put on consoles. Jaws Unleashed 
 is, in every imaginable way, the anti-Ecco. Instead of saving humanity, you're chomping down on 
 it with sharp, angry teeth, and instead of finding yourself having a breezy, enjoyable time with 
 the game, you'll find yourself cursing at Jaws Unleashed's awful controls, even worse camera, and 
 completely idiotic missions.  

          There is certainly a measure of visceral entertainment to be derived from being able to 
 tear into unsuspecting prey...     

  Jaws Unleashed takes place 30 years after the events of the first film. The days of the malcontent 
 shark have all but been forgotten, and Amity Island has returned to its days as a thriving township. 
 But when a major corporation comes to town to do something entirely corporate and anonymously evil, 
 the local marine population is disturbed, and along comes yet another gigantic shark (or is it 
 the same one, 30 years later?) to lay waste to the populace and wreak havoc on the island. The 
 setup for the shark-biting action is flimsy at best; but then again, this isn't really a game you'd 
 ever play for its story, and the developers had to find  some  way to tie the Jaws license into 
 this whole thing.  

  You can't really blame the Jaws license for sinking this game. This is not some hastily tossed-together 
 cash-in on a classic movie. This game was originally announced back in 2003 as Sole Predator, and 
 was a completely license-free shark-based action game long before the Jaws license came along. 
 So without the license to blame, all you're left with is an entirely poor game design. In theory, 
 it's not a bad idea for a game. Jaws Unleashed takes the concept of an open-ended game world and 
 simply makes it an underwater adventure. It also takes the sort of freeform ultraviolence of something 
 like the Grand Theft Auto series, replacing guns with rows and rows of sharp teeth. Once you get 
 past the first mission, you can go just about anywhere on Amity Island and eat just about anyone 
 or anything you want, be they people, dolphins, seals, or anything else with an ounce of blood 
 in it. Not to mention that you can destroy various pieces of the scenery and take part in some 
 side missions. While that might sound like a hoot, every other aspect of the game design conspires 
 to wreck the experience.  

  For starters, the game controls are just awful. Jaws starts out with a few basic moves, including 
 a basic bite, a charge-up head-butt attack that's good for wrecking boats, docks, and the like, 
 and a slightly less damaging but still reasonably effective tail whip. You can earn new moves over 
 time, too. But the problem with the basic moveset given to Jaws is that the shark just doesn't 
 handle well. It's not necessarily surprising that a big, lumbering shark, traveling at full speed 
 through the water, might blow past a target or have trouble lining itself up for a precise attack, 
 but it doesn't make it any less frustrating in this game, when so many of your mission objectives 
 and attacks require a degree of precision that simply isn't there.  

  Not to mention that some of the things Jaws can do are just ridiculous. One of the things you'll 
 actually find yourself doing a lot in the game is having Jaws jump out of the water and onto dry 
 land to grab some poor, unsuspecting schmuck. And it isn't like Jaws just throws his head out long 
 enough to grab the guy and sink back into the water -- Jaws actually beaches himself in most cases, 
 and you use the swim button to make him wriggle his way back ever so slowly into the water. He 
 can survive for only a limited number of seconds, but watching this unbelievably silly act is no 
 less mind-blowing to watch -- nor any less frustrating when he gets stuck on some invisible piece 
 of scenery and can't make it back to the water in time.  

  The in-game camera makes matters even worse. Enemies come from all directions in Jaws Unleashed, 
 and trying to position the camera in such a way as to make it so you're not constantly getting 
 nailed from behind is a near impossibility. It's even worse because the game constantly forces 
 you to feed on enemies to maintain your hunger level (if it drops too low, you die) , but when you're 
 getting constantly sideswiped by enemies you can't see, and you can't properly steer yourself into 
 an opportune position to snag a meal fast enough, you're going to find yourself extremely flustered. 
 It's even worse when you're swimming near surface level. The camera snaps beneath and above the 
 water depending on where you're at, and if you get too close to the surface while trying to snag 
 something or perform an attack, the camera will snap to the surface view, which totally obscures 
 your ability to see if you hit what you were after, and to even get the camera back to a normal 
 position, you have to swim down a ways.  

  You might be willing to struggle with the controls if the game provided missions that were entertaining 
 in the slightest. Jaws Unleashed does nothing of the sort. For what it's worth, there is a measure 
 of entertainment to be found in Jaws' missions, but it's purely unintentional hilarity. Take, for 
 example, the very first mission objective you're handed. You're trapped in a science lab, and in 
 order to escape, a door must be opened. Normal Jaws logic would dictate that simple brute force 
 would get you out, but no, not in Jaws Unleashed. Here, you have to grab a nearby scientist, drag 
 him into the water, swim over to a nearby key card reader, swipe his body past it, and thus, open 
 the door.  

  And this is hardly the only example -- the game is littered with scenarios in which you're picking 
 up exploding barrels with your mouth to toss at enemies (inexplicably, the barrels catch on fire 
 the moment they leave your jaws) , and murdering orca whales inside theme parks so that a magic 
 door will open instantly the second that orca dies. Maybe it's asking for too much to expect a 
 total reenvisioning of the action game paradigm in a budget, movie-licensed game, but Appaloosa 
 failed to think anywhere even resembling outside the box on this one, instead slavishly dedicating 
 itself to recycling the same trite, boilerplate action-game mission designs that have been done 
 to death in other games and furthermore, seem ludicrously out of place in a game starring a wild 
 shark. It's not even done with a hint of irony or humor.  

          ... But in a game this poorly designed, that visceral entertainment turns into frustration 
 and boredom pretty quick.     

  Jaws Unleashed's presentational aspects are better produced than anything the gameplay has to offer, 
 but that isn't to suggest they're any good. Expectedly, the most graphical detail is shown in the 
 Jaws model, and it is a pretty good-looking shark by any standard. It animates well, looks natural 
 swimming, and basically does what it needs to in order to look like a big, mean shark. The underwater 
 environments have their charm, too. You'll see lots of little schools of fish, groupings of dolphins, 
 and other assorted undersea bric-a-brac swimming about -- although you won't see any of it until 
 it's practically right in front of you, as the game has a terrible draw distance. Once you get 
 out of the water, things fall apart. The people in the game just look bad, and the environmental 
 designs above water just look cheap. There are also plenty of random animation glitches and random 
 bugs to give the game something of an unfinished feel. It also crashed to the desktop on us a couple 
 of times while playing. The PC version of Jaws does at least sport a better frame rate than either 
 of the console versions. But the graphics still look pretty bland, even with the resolution cranked 
 all the way up. This is also very clearly a console port, and only the bare minimum has been done 
 to make it function on the PC. Menus don't even include mouse support. On the audio front, there's 
 some decent orchestral music going on in the background, but beyond that, it's just cheesy voice 
 acting and some underwhelming sound effects and screams. And even the musical score isn't that 
 great, especially considering the theme music the game uses isn't the original track from the movie, 
 but rather a new orchestration of it that sounds a little cheesier. The PC version also seems to 
 have a few weird audio bugs. The screams of random passersby tend to repeat more often. Sometimes 
 the pitch of the characters' voices also goes weirdly high and at random intervals.  

  There's certainly a measure of morbid thrill that can be derived from some of the more open-ended 
 components of Jaws Unleashed. A novel level of enjoyment exists in the notion of swimming up to 
 an unsuspecting oceangoer and sinking your teeth into them, dragging them screaming beneath the 
 waves and turning them into a midday snack. However, the novelty of said action wears off about 
 15 minutes into Jaws Unleashed, and without it, all you're left with is a really lousy action game 
 that's cumbersome to play, contains not a single interesting mission over the course of its roughly 
 10-hour structure, and looks and sounds terribly mediocre. The $20 price tag might seem enticing, 
 but $20 for a bad game is no deal at all.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: glimpus
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 5, 2009 4:23 pm PT
Review:  I remember wanting to try this game, but for the longest time the reviews steered me clear of it. 
 Let me tell you, the reviewers were right. The game just feels, unfinished. Or that it's lacking 
 something, ie. gameplay, or any interesting goals for that matter.
  
  You're Jaws, you eat fish, people and blow up boats. You can even destroy dockyards by smashing 
 their support beams to bits. Sounds cool, right?
  
  It's fun for about 15 minutes, eating people and hearing them scream can be enjoyable, but then 
 you realize there's nothing really left to do. I mean, what sort of a story could you write for 
 a shark, anyway? It's a big, stupid hungry fish. So you go and do what big hungry fish do, and 
 that's about it.
  
  The camera angles suck, the story sucks. Eating people is cool for a few minutes.
  
  A bad, 
 bad game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 2.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 11:45 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay/Interface: 2/10
  - A game where you actually play as JAWS could have been a lot of fun chewing up people as a huge 
 shark. Unfortunately this probably would have to go on my worst games list. Camera is extremely 
 difficult to master, the interface in general makes no sense as to why the made it that way, I 
 actually have to question rather the development team even enjoyed playing this game.
  
  Environment & Immersion: 2/10
  - Sure theres tons of fish, people, and boats to devour, but what 
 does it matter if its impossible to even aim straight even when using the lock on feature. This 
 game was hard to play without being utterly ticked off after just 5-10 minutes of playing, actually 
 being addicted to this game is a joke.
  
  Graphics/Physics: 5/10
  - Graphics are a bit outdate to a certain extent, but aren't at all terrible to look at. Yes the 
 bloodyness of killing something or even anything is very amusing.
  
  Sound: 5/10
  - Sound is mediocre at best.
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 4/10
  - Unsual long time to 
 install for such a game. Camera and controls are a bug in its own category.
  
  Replay value: 2/10
  - Its tough just playing this game through for 5-10 minutes on the first 
 time of play, don't even think of replaying this game over and over.
  
  Value for money: 1/10
  - I can't even put a true monetary value for this game. I would say any 
 amount that is offered for this game to sell is simply too much, even as a freeware or shareware 
 game I have a feeling it would still fail to even be downloaded much.
  
  Will this game be remembered by old school gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - Haha.. no
 
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - Oceanographers or marine biologist who truely love animals more than humans and who have never 
 played a game in their life. Sorry I can't really put a category of people into this figure without 
 somewhat offending them.
  
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 2.5 - This game shouldn't of even been allowed to carry such a legend name as JAWS. A 
 disgrace to gaming... heck even to camera angles. Honestly, don't bother wasting your time with 
 this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titanic100
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 27, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  Jaws unleashed 
  
  When I heard about this game I was thinking surely not they have not made a game on the most terrifying 
 shark of the seas. 
  
  The game play 
  
  The game play is very good you take the role of the shark called JAWS you have to do missions and 
 at the beginning you are caught by the scientist mike Brody and you are taken to his lab of study, 
 you are then put into a tank and there is a scientist walking around and you kill him but also 
 drag him over to the door release, and the door opens and you escape to the sea. 
  
  The graphics 
  
  The graphics are very good and the quality of them when you jump out of the 
 water and land again there is a splash where you have landed and you can see ripples in the water,
 
  When you are dragging a person along the water you can see the blood coming out of him the explosions 
 of the boats when you attack them blow up and the explosion is excellent. 
  
  The sound 
  
  The sounds are very good everything sounds as it should do in real life when you swim and jump 
 out of the water you can hear the splashes as you re-enter the water, the explosions are very good 
 when you attack a boat and the screams of the people when you attack them or even pop your head 
 out of the water at the beach. 
  
  I have found this game to be very good and I am pleased that I brought this game and I am now going 
 to go back to it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scvido
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 2:57 am PT
Review:  Gamespot should be ashamed for the score they gave to this game, i picked it up really cheap and 
 it was awesome fun, sure it may not feature Crysis graphics or anything and it might be akward 
 to play at times but it's a unique game and dare i say rather faithful to the jaws world.
  
  Graphics : i love the shark it's really well done, the animations of the characters are ok 
 they doesnt feature RagDoll or anything so it's forgiven, the game is pretty smooth and rather 
 good looking.
  
  Sound : the sound is pretty good too, the music is acceptable and the voices while not too varied 
 are still in the realm of "it's ok for what it does".
  you can hear various stuff under and above the waters and the screams are kinda funny.
  
  Gameplay 
 : being the very first "shark" simulator on a PC i have to give a kudos to the developers for trying 
 something new, the controls will take you a bit to get used to but in the end you're going to be 
 spinning and diving and destroying boats and eating/tearing people apart, it's all very nice and 
 the fact this game is "cheap" doesn't make it bad, it's a lot of fun and the blood will flow freely 
 :-D
  
  
  Conclusion - please don't let the Gamespot score prevent you from playing this game, it's not as 
 bad as you might think actually, sure the controls could've been slightly more intuitive and a 
 couple of animations could've been done slightly better...
  
  i recommend this game with all my heart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  Gameplay- Play as jaws the shark blow things up. Rip people to shreads eat fish. Really innovative 
 idea for a game.
  
  Graphics- Pure Crap. Its what keeps this game from getting a 7.0 score. The charcter model for 
 the shark is grand but the People, and underwater animals, boats and other things are just badly 
 textured and look like blobs.
  
  Sound- Great sound taken from the movie. Voice acting not done by the movie actors but still ok. 
 Ambiet noises are great and the murmed screams coming from the peole underwater are just awesome.
 
  
  Value- 10-20 bucks just depeends where u can buy it.
  
  Replayablity- None
  
  Multiplayer-None
  
  Story- Your the shark from the movie trying to stop some oil drillers.
 
  
  Buy Or Pass- Rent it for console. DL a "demo" for the PC.
  
  The Good-Fun gameplay, Great Sound
  The Bad-Lots of glitches and crashes
  The Ugly-Horrible 
 Graphics 
::::::

::::::
UserName: picklessmulan
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 6, 2007 1:58 am PT
Review:  This is one of the worsest game i have ever played
  The camera was so bad so you got seasick. And the story is dorky a shark blowing up boats with 
 missiles! Hello what were they thinking making this stupid game
  
  The graphics are ok The Shark and the Fishes are good looking but the boats and people doesnt look 
 so good. The sound is very bad with a new Jaws song thats looping over and over again And the voices 
 are really bad to and why doesnt the people move there mouth when they are talking ??
  
  The worst thing about the game is the Camera and the Gameplay its sucks big time. I dont think 
 you can do any worser gameplay or camera. it gets really annoying when youhave died 100000 times 
 because the camera dont follow correcttly
  
  The value of the game is ok for they who can make it so far. The story is about 4-5 hours and then 
 there is a lot of sidechallanges and they are not fun. The game is not fun and they who think so 
 must have been hit by something hard !! Just kidding but this game is at the back and far far away 
 in my collection
  
  + The graphics especially the Shark and the fishes
  - Everything else esecially the Camera and The Gameplay
  
  Graphics 6
  Sound 2
  Gameplay 
 1
  Value 3
  Tilt 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad78
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 18, 2007 4:07 am PT
Review:  This is a thoroughly underrated game. It is true that it has several flaws. The controls are a 
 bit clumsy (especially for the throwing of objects which can make certain mission rather annoying) 
 and there a few bugs and graphic glitches. But if you look past that you discover this is a rather 
 innovative game. The idea firstly is interesting. For once instead of you trying to kill the shark 
 you actually become the shark. This allows for more variety in the gameplay. The game has also 
 abandoned the underwater horror theme of the films for a more dark humor approach and it must be 
 said that some of the missions in the game are rather amusing.
  All in all this is a game worth trying. Its easy to finish and rather short but really a fun game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drbranko
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 5, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  Don't believe what you read elsewhere and if you like the concept get the game. The controls/camera 
 are not so bad. It took 5-10 min to get used to the mouse + keyboard controls. Once familiar with 
 the controls I just couldn't stop playing. The game does suffer from some consolitis and the sound 
 can get repetitive but if you are looking for something different then your everyday 3d person 
 shooter this is sooo refreshing. The story is little superficial but it does not detract from the 
 overall game. The graphics are nothing spectacular but just appropriate.
  .... and yes... you're gonna need a bigger boat .... hehehe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gory-Gamer-25
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 12, 2007 5:38 am PT
Review:  Jaws was a surprisingly good game i never wanted to buy until now and figured out how cool it was 
 i mean c'mon how can u get tired of eating people and blowing crap up!!! the graphics are alright 
 the gameplay is awesome. this game let u just jump up and snacht people out of their boats or just 
 right off of a beach or dock its awesome!! u can also pick stuff up with your mouth and launch 
 it at any thing even people! picking people up and launching them into the wall causes them to 
 splatter all over the place! u can also sink boats and docks and buldings that are buit on water 
 and the boss battles are awesome this game is totally worth the wait!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Venom250
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 26, 2007 5:56 am PT
Review:  I was waiting this game for really long time and i'm not dissapointed , it's worth the wait . Actually 
 i think all watched '' Jaws '' movie and it was awesome , here is same story , but this game can 
 give you all answers on questions that you had after watching a film , here you are not just sitting 
 and eating pop corn , here you play as Jaws !!! It's '' Jaws '' movie , but you play your own role 
 in it . Mission or story is to swim around huge Amity islands and make chaos to all what is moving 
 , just like in film . In start is was very funny to me , and i almost screamed '' w00t die ***** 
 !!! '' after 1st human kill , it was soooo awesome , i wanted more and more !!! I can't actually 
 believe that devolepors saied '' 64 parts to eat , i saw only 7 ... but still looks awesome to 
 kill or eat someone . Now i will try to describe all parts of game . Also really nice that there 
 are many types of animals in a game , you always will have someone to eat , it's cool , but human 
 is on the top in Jaws menu .
  
  Gameplay :
  Gameplay is awesome , it's really funny to eat someone or destroy something . Also missions are 
 not idiotic as gamespot say , i had a lot of fun of them . So all looks like perfect funny gameplay 
 , but no , it has enough glitches . For example camera : it was really hard to configure it how 
 i wanted , but in some time i started to work with it really easy , now i realized that it's ok 
 and funny to play , you just need time and some skills to operate it . Buttons were hard to configure 
 out in start too , but i changed it how i like and now it's really easy to perform some w00t moves 
 , it's not to hard . And don't be afraid of mouse/keyboard , all moves and camera can give you 
 a lot of fun , it's not hard to play as people saying . So i will give 8 to gameplay , it's great 
 .
  
  Graphics :
  Graphics is good at all , maybe even great , underwater sea looks very pretty , but only human 
 models can't give it great 8 , they look to simple or even bad , maybe cause of those '' 64 parts 
 '' to destroy ?
  
  Sound :
  In this part of game devolepors had a rest for sure , sound is not good . Really small limit of 
 voices that people saying , those '' we all gonna die '' or '' oh , **** !!! '' get's bored soon 
 , but underwater sounds are really good .
  At all this game was worth the money , worth the wait and a lot of fun to play for me . I really 
 don't know what people are talking about , this game is not bad , it's great !!! I think it's the 
 funniest game i ever played , so buy it and have fun . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laggylad2
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jan 25, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  In Jaws Unleashed you play as Jaws the iconic movie shark where you can freely roam around the 
 Amity Islands and cause whatever havoc you care to do so, while a great concept at the start which 
 caused many people to get overly excited about it (including myself) it was executed poorly.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is fairly basic and attacking any life that happens to be in the water 
 the same time that you are seems to be a novelty and you think that you can go on forever eating 
 people and tearing off their limbs watching them bleed to death, this doesn't last as the AI is 
 rather unchallenging so there isn't as much pride in the kill as you would think. One of the main 
 problems is that the game is too easy, even a casual gamer like me managed to get through the story 
 in just a few hours.
  There is also the problem with Jaws himself, the swimming along with the Smart camera can be very 
 annoying as the camera can go above the water at inoppurtune times when you are being attacked 
 by sharks or those bastard research machines (of which there are far too many of) and Jaws also 
 has the tendency to get stuck alot rather than clipping around the area so that Jaws can get out.
 
  
  Graphics: Some of the underwater landscape and the above water reflections, the light reflecting 
 off Jaws are the strong point of the graphics here as well as some sea life, but the actual people 
 look worse than pre Grand Theft Auto 3 characters, the mouths of the characters don't open at all 
 so when they are talking in the cutscenes you think that you're watching ventriliquists throughout 
 the game infact the only characters opening their mouths are the sea life.
  
  Sound: The sound seems to be made up of recycled stock files especially when Jaws is biting and 
 eating, the ambient sounds are also very limited so its like the same sounds looping every few 
 seconds and because of this I never really felt immersed into the environment.
  Other annoyances include (well the one that everyone mentions) the script of the people you are 
 eating must consist of just a few lines so all you here as a shark is I gotta get away , I think 
 he's dead (even though you are clearly visible destroying something alive and kicking) and finally 
 I don't wanna die , what puzzles me is that sometimes the humans on this game can say these lines 
 perfectly when underwater and without a head to scream out of.
  
  Value: While it is fun to kill whatever you can as a shark it can get particularly dull after a 
 short time and once the story mode has been completed there isn't really much worth doing afterwards, 
 there are side challenges but by the time you have completed the story mode you will have probably 
 made yourself the baddest fish you can be so there isn't much point in doing the uninteresting 
 challenges.
  
  I've given this game 5.3 because I believe there was once a decent game here when appaloosa was 
 making it Sole Predator but most of the quality was probably lost (along with any multiplayer) 
 when it was decided that it was to be made into a Jaws game.
  
  Hope this was useful to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellraezer666
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 21, 2007 11:34 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I played the game and I can only say, that those who gave it a bad rating obviously expected 
 something else. Sure the camera is difficult to manage at first, that is until you get used to 
 it. I feel this was the purpose of the designers, you see, you are a gigantic shark, and when you 
 are a baby, you weren't running a marathon the first day, right? I played this on my friend's PS2, 
 and when I heard it was on the PC, I got it immediately! C'mon people, the game delivers everything 
 it promises, and hey, where else can you just chew up anyone and everything you want? Vice City? 
 The cops will just kill you if you start going kamikaze on everything, right? In Jaws Unleashed, 
 we get to eat EVERYTHING! who's going to argue with us? We're a giant shark, and if they have a 
 problem with it, and try to hurt us, we'll just eat them too! The controls are a little difficult 
 at first, but so is any new style of game, so quit crying about it and give it a chance.
  
  Everything looks like its supposed to also, so I would just say, the better your computer the better 
 the experience!
  
  The sounds above water SOUND like they're above water and vice-versa under water. Wood shatters, 
 and sea life REALLY does sound like this when a shark eats it! Eerily, I've heard people drug underwater 
 by a shark, and they REALLY SOUND LIKE THAT! So the sound is incredibly life-like! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mackattacka
Rating: 3.6
Date: Dec 27, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, the JAWS movie was a classic. But this game, just won't cut it in the world, 
 for mostly anybody. Think of grand theft auto, and take the city, and your character. Turn it into 
 the sea, and make yourself an oversized shark. That is basically what this game is, on a much worse 
 scale.
  
  To be straight forward, there just aren't many elements that can make this game a fun one. Sure, 
 you can sink some ships in a few different ways of attacks, or eat up some humans from the local 
 beaches. Or just go through the repetitive, boring missions. But other than that, you just swim 
 around, bored.
  
  It just gets too repetitive. On the contrary, the physics in this game aren't too realistic, nor 
 good. The graphics are the only thing I could give a decent rating to, since they're not half bad. 
 Yet they're nothing special, so no anticipation for that. I played it for a while at my friend's 
 house, and it seemed he liked it. It just depends what kind of person, and gamer you are. But for 
 the most part, most people wouldn't play this game for fun. I suggest you don't waste your god 
 given time on it, thanks again.
  
  -Mack 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IceColdCanadian
Rating: 3.4
Date: Dec 23, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  Intro
  
  Although it surprises me that many more games have not been created to cash in on the successful 
 JAWS Quadrilogy, each time one comes out, I'm reminded why they shouldn't be made. JAWS - Unleashed 
 is a 3rd/1st Person Action game that features modest graphics with a control scheme fit for the 
 Playstation 2. It should have been named Carpul-Tunnel Unleashed .
  
  So It's been a few years since the last Jaws movie, alright, 19, but the franchise must be still 
 alive and kicking if Majesco games decided to pick up the license and swim with it. Die-hard JAWS 
 fans will be craving some intense, scary underwater horror that is fit for the name JAWS. Sadly, 
 what they will get is a budget game with sub-par graphics, a horrific control scheme and an almost 
 laughable storyline.
  
  It's been a while since Amity Island was plagued by the 25 foot behemoth from the deep and they 
 have turned into a lovely, happy island with lots of dive shops and sandy beaches. Their latest 
 attraction is Seal Island , that's right, an island, full of plump seals ripe for the picking for 
 whatever lurks below the glassy surface of the ocean. The seals of course, attract the player, 
 a 20 foot great white shark. Your job, is to remove the inhabitants from Amity Island. Simple as 
 that. Gameplay
  
  Players who install this game will immediately realize that this is not a PC game, but a direct 
 port from the PS2 and XBOX. There is no mouse support on the menu and the Enter Your Name screen 
 is reminiscent to the old Zelda games for the SNES.
  
  The first mission takes place as Sharky learns the ropes of swimming in the ocean. This is where 
 the player will begin cursing the horrible control scheme and probably uninstall the game. This 
 tutorial mission, has you breaking open dive cages and eating the divers, plucking children from 
 the local beach, and breaking down the boardwalk so you can eat the shoppers. Of course, the coast 
 guard will try to stop you but you can simply destroy their boats with a single chomp. You can 
 also pull boaters off their boats by biting and shaking the boats til they fall in.
  
  Now of course, the main reason people would play this game is to chomp down some victims as a big 
 great white shark. Sadly, there is only one death animation, and it gets boring extremely quickly 
 as you repeatedly pull victims down and tear them to pieces. The death animation also looks like 
 garbage to those paying attention.
  
  After completing the first mission, you are captured by the scientific community on the island 
 and are put in a Sea World type environment (Jaws 3) . Your first task is to actually, get this, 
 pull a scientist into the water, steal his keycard, and slide it through the key reader to unlock 
 your cage. The game lost me there. Graphics
  
  The graphics in JAWS Unleashed are comparable to something on the Playstation 1, even on full settings. 
 Anyone with a 233 or higher should be able to run this one with no trouble.
  
  Constantly repeated death animations and boring textures will quickly drain this game of it's life 
 force rather quickly, especially for gamers who are used to games like Oblivion, Ghost Recon, and 
 Just Cause. The game's graphics just aren't up to par, even for a budget game. Controls
  
  The final nail in the coffin of JAWS Unleashed are the utterly horrible control scheme. You need 
 to use both the WASD and Arrow keys to maneuvere your shark, which gets tiresome at high speeds 
 when you need somewhat good accuracy. There are 3 camera modes, one of which is comically called 
 Shark Vision which is essentially the hardest to use, since you have no clue what's going on as 
 you swim through the ocean looking at pretty colored dots which represent food. It's more like 
 a developer on an acid trip.
  
  You have special abilities tied to the C and Space bar keys which involve charging and tail-slapping 
 boats and dive cages, but other than these minute abilities there is nothing special you can pull 
 off.
  
  Summary
  
  This game could have been special, and by special I don't mean mentally handicapped, I mean a good 
 game. The developer's obviously didn't have enough money in the budget to make anything less than 
 a complete port of JAWS Unleashed for the PS2 and XBOX. There is no replayability except for a 
 small hidden item game where you find the 45 license plates strewn around the ocean and eat them. 
 Veteran or HardCore gamers should be able to wiz through this little gem in under 2 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joel_nukem_hell
Rating: 2.1
Date: Dec 15, 2006 1:02 am PT
Review:  Normaly when I play a game No matter how mutch I hear how bad it is I always find some thing good 
 about it. But and I meen a Big but people. this game plays like a roller coaster cart with no track. 
 its just not grate and in some ways just plain horrible. now I've played games like FireStarter 
 and actualy liked it.
  cant forget Warhammer 40,000: Fire Warrior or yes even Play with the Teletubbies that was a grate 
 game compaired to jaws unleashed. the sound was just bad There must be some law made were you cant 
 use the words I DONT WONT TO DIE so frequently. It was practically the only thing the swimmers 
 said the hole game well besides the word AAAHHHHH thats if you can count AAAAHHHH as a word. the 
 quality of the sound effects in the game wasnt that grate either. hearing a sound once is good 
 hearing a sound a billion and a half times with in 30 seconds is just evil. Its almost as if the 
 people who made the game had the soul purpose in mind to force you to take a knife and jam it in 
 your ear's just to make the sounds stop.
  
  now for the graphics oh the graphics godda love this part of a game write?
  WRONG in jaws they 
 stick you in what is supose to be watter witch yes it looks like watter. or could that be blue 
 jello ? dont ask me im not sure theres only two places I wonna see jello in a bowl with a spoon 
 or in a swimming pool. why jello in a swimming pool i dont know imagen the look one some face when 
 they come out and find out there hole pool is jello. now thats beside the point back to graphics 
 they get pritty bad when you brake some thing it just doesnt seem real. when you look at some of 
 the othere fish they just look bad. But hey fish are made out of paper right ?
  I think not but in this game if you like paper fish take a look at some of the schools of fish. 
 so from a graphics point of view i rather play some thing from 2004 practicly eny thing realy.
 
  
  now for the final bits I just have to say. the camera is just horrible it never looks were you 
 wont it to. if you wont to look at some thing you have to swim around it a billion times just to 
 get a good view of it. that and cant leave out the fact that you can beach your self and unbeach 
 your self at will. Now I could be wrong but I realy dont think a 5 tun shark can go on land and 
 not get stuck and end up like a beached wale. cant forget the ability to make a small under watter 
 tornado with your body yep all sharks can do that didnt you know? ya even in the move jaws could 
 do that for real... ok I cant keep this lie up all the special moves in this game are just bad. 
 On a final note if you seen jaws and liked the movie the game might be worth looking at for a laugh. 
 now if you payed for this game then im sorry I feel realy bad for you and getting cheated out of 
 your money. mainly what im saying is if you have afriend who got it and you wont to check it out 
 borrow it from him. After witch the two of you go and either 1 mail it back to the nice kind hearted 
 people who butchered a grate movie to make a couple of bucks. Or 2 you can burn it and help jaws 
 get back some of his pride witch must be next to nothing after a game like this comes out about 
 the movie. well I gues we can smile a bit the guy who came up with the idea for this game should 
 have and probably did loose his job for even thinking about making a game like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calist0
Rating: 2.2
Date: Nov 27, 2006 2:35 am PT
Review:  After starting the game you are bothered by game tips, and i hate game tips... ok the first impression 
 wasn't bad. I liked the shark and the way he looks in the game, his moves, but the rest of it... well 
 it sucks. If you play it for like 15 min i can assure you'll hit the ESC button and exit to windows. 
 It is a very boring game, you'll have fun first time you'll play it , with the killing spree and 
 all but that's all, graphics are bad, actually i still don't know what tot do in tis game.
  
  It's very repetitive, at some points very stupid ( grab a scientist under water and then slide 
 him through a card reader to open a door) , sounds are also week not to mention the gameplay. Hey 
 u can also upgrade you shark , cool isn't it?
  
  :)
  
  I really wanted to enjoy this game, but that's the way it is, the idea of controlling the shark 
 and having the whole ocean to your self is quite unique, but they spoiled with a bad : graphics, 
 sounds and game play which is everything.
  
  Rent it , do not buy it!!!
  
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuthorLex54
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 12, 2006 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Jaws Unleashed sounded like a cool game when it was first announced, but it's not really that great. 
 It seems Majesco and Appaloosa executed it rather poorly, which is a shame considering the Jaws 
 license.
  
  The game play is really pointless. It has it's up's when it comes to turning the tables on mankind 
 by playing as the Great White shark, but that dosen't save the game from it's boring missions. 
 Not to mention the impossible moves that the Shark that perform.
  
  Graphics, what can I say? They seem a bit dated and the drawback is horrible. You won't see an 
 object until you're at least three feet from it. Definately out-dated.
  
  The sound: Well, At least it has the Jaws theme.
  
  Pretty much, the developers had a lot of 
 time to work on this game and they screwed it up so bad. It might have been better if they had 
 only tried... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kakaroti4
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 2, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  Concept:
  Jaws Unleashed is a game based on the legendary movie Jaws (1975) . While the shark was foe in the 
 movie it sure isn't a foe in this game, where you are the SHARK! That's right the player gets to 
 be the great white and has to chomp everything down that stands in the way. For a game this concept 
 is really original, I mean come one folks I know GTA has the free roaming aspect to it, but Jaws 
 Unleashed lets you be the freaking shark! No other game has ever delivered such an experience. 
 And while people may dislike this concept it may even sound stupid to those who can't se anything 
 fun in it, but it surely is something unseen and has to be tried.
  
  Game play & Graphics:
  Now it should be clear to everybody what sort of game this is. For beginners 
 the controls are perfectly stable, a surprise when you compare the (PC) version with the console 
 versions it is a hell of an improvement. The mouse function is meant for the underwater slaughter 
 with a sensitivity tweak it helps to manoeuvre the killing-machine with ease and the WASD controls 
 are there to provide a solid movement if you have something in your mouth and want to kill it or 
 throw with it, which by the way is really funny. The beautifully animated shark flows perfectly 
 with the beautiful, and rich detailed underwater environment this gives a good chance for the player 
 to explore the huge underwater world that contains a huge variety of sea life, this is a HUGE plus 
 for the game. No getting stuck in the scenery here, although this has been improved in the (PC) 
 version everyone who tries to stick his nose up a whole in the sunken ship in the tutorial has 
 to get stuck, but it is pretty easy to get out of that one. actually it is easy to get out of any 
 stuck-situation. The draw distance in the water is short, but on the surface the draw distance 
 is much better! You can even see objects or boats from a far distance if you travel near the surface. 
 The gamedevelopers have doen this in a cleaver way making the situation underwater more realistic, 
 and lets be honest who the hell can see beyond 10 - 15 meters in water? So no problem with draw 
 distance in this game. The camera works fine and follows the shark at all time, when killing something 
 it may not move to the mouth, in which point I am not completely sure if the second camera mode 
 provides the free camera option or not. The first two camera modes are really alike? The third 
 one is a first person view. OH boy it is really hard to attack precisely with this one, if not 
 impossible! But the first person view is fantastic at the same time if you are just swimming around 
 in the ocean exploring or lurking beneath some people who are swimming it really adds to the experience 
 it's like DUH DUH DUH DUH DUH DUH! In the first person view, you know what I mean. As far as the 
 story missions go it is really fun to complete them, when they all are completed though you start 
 to regret that they didn't make more story based missions. Therefore the side missions give more 
 content to the game, when completing a side mission you can complete it again just in a harder 
 mode. There are all sorts of collectibles for JAWS to collect this is also a way of ensuring that 
 you explore every little corner of the Jaws Unleashed universe. Oh the killing, the killing, the 
 killing, and destruction in this game is really the centre of game play. The option to shred human 
 beings into 25 disconnections is a pure brutal reality, these animations are pretty good, and the 
 detail is mediocre, the humans themselves are not highly detailed but it is enough to satisfy. 
 As for what is highly detailed then it has to be the guts hanging out of your human prey when you 
 chop them in half. The target lock and shark vision is helpful at times. As for the destruction 
 of objects it does a fairly good job. All in all the game delivers what it is supposed to deliver 
 and it does that with style. Also when playing you earn points that you can use to upgrade some 
 of the sharks attributes such as: Speed, Power, Accuracy, Health, and Hunger. Also when upgrading 
 JAWS learns new moves that can be used on your victims.
  
  Sound:
  To be honest I think the sound is the weakest point in the game. The underwater sounds are fine 
 as they are, but immediately when you reach the surface something goes wrong it is no longer authentic. 
 As far as the human screaming goes it is ok with me, but the amount of different lines that your 
 victims can deliver could have been improved. "I don't want to die!" & "Where is it!" are fine 
 but when repeated for a few time they are irritating. But luckily there are more lines, but not 
 so heavily repeated as the two ones above.
  
  All in all Jaws Unleashed for (PC) is worth buying. It suffers less (If not at all!) from problems 
 seen on the consoles, and delivers a stunning and interesting game play. The game does not get 
 old, there is always something to explore, and kill! That is the sole purpose of this game, and 
 that is to entertain. The higher the resolution you set the better the overall look it will give, 
 I play the game in 1024 X 768 resolution and it flows beautifully. SO don't believe the hype, people 
 bad mouth this game too much. I think this game deserves a chance to make up for the console versions 
 and to deliver many hours of none stop fun. No matter in which mood you are in, when you play Jaws 
 Unleashed and swim freely around it relaxes you, then comes the ripping part of human flesh That 
 could be relaxing... But NO its awsomme! 
  
  Note this game will not isntall on Vista, it is a huge pity, not even the developers have released 
 a patch or work around to adress this, so if you have a new system you can kiss this game goodbye... 
 sad but true I can't even play it anymore since I've build a new system with Vista. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
