-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Jazz Jackrabbit 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/jazzjackrabbit2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 17, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 7.8, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 453 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Gathering
Developer: Epic Games
Genre: 2D Platformer
Date:     Jul 31, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Fans of the traditional side-scrolling platform game will not be disappointed. 

 Jazz Jackrabbit 2 is a shot in the arm of 2D gaming. With smooth control, two distinct characters 
 to play, and some of the funniest and freshest 2D level designs, monsters, and power-ups since 
 Earthworm Jim, fans of the traditional side-scrolling platform game will not be disappointed.  
 

 This second installment once again pits Jazz Jackrabbit against evil genius and turtle Devan Shell. 
 This time around, Jazz has the aid of his little brother Spaz. And he'll need it, because the stakes 
 are high for all of rabbitdom. Malicious Devan has built a time machine and is racing into prehistory 
 in an attempt to alter evolution's path and create a world without bunnies. Armed with an arsenal 
 of goofy ironmongery, the Freres Rabbit are hot on his tail, er, trail.  

 Beginning in the present, the game works backwards in time. Each subsequent level reaches further 
 into the past. The level designs are terrific. Colonial Chaos features swashbuckling tortoises, 
 traditional pink Victorian architecture, and mother-in-law hippos who take no lip. Among the dozens 
 of other levels are hell itself, a smurfy-looking castled Middle Ages, and the psychedelic "Purple 
 Haze Maze" with hookah-smoking Afroed caterpillars, Mad Hatters with more than just lumps in their 
 tea, and disappearing Cheshire Cat platforms. The same attention to detail prevails throughout: 
 clean sprites, gorgeous flame and smoke effects, crisp parallax scrolling, and majestic backgrounds. 
   

 The projectiles are terrific. In all, nine different weapon power-ups are featured, from rubber 
 balls that bounce off walls and rebound into your opponents, to pepper spray, to one of the laziest 
 flamethrowers in the business. Most striking though are the individual personalities of the various 
 enemies. The operative word here is cute. Strutting lizards with helicopter rotors strapped to 
 their backs? Wait until you see how they walk. And hear them mutter.  

 We're talking Jim Henson cute. And if you tire of the original levels and monsters, the game comes 
 with a level designer - perhaps a first in platform gaming - for fully customizable levels.  

 
 As Jazz or Spaz, you have dozens of moves at your disposal. In a sense the game plays like a "best 
 of" platform game, with no startling new inventions, but more double jumps and dashes than you 
 can shake a stick at. The two characters differ in their signature moves. Spaz has a dashing side 
 kick and a traditional double jump. Jazz has a crouching super jump and a "helicopter ears" move 
 that allows for slow descents, which when used in tandem work great to reach those difficult platforms. 
 And when all else fails, there's always the good old butt stomp.  

 Control couldn't be easier to pick up or more fluid in action, as would be expected with any side 
 scroller worth its mustard. Whether you're after speed or depth, the game can be successfully negotiated 
 at a Sonic-esque velocity or patiently preened for maximum hidden-area riches. And there are plenty 
 of secrets to be found. Again, all the classic side-scrolling elements are present. Collect coins 
 to access bonus rounds. Blast through power-up-sensitive blocks to access secret areas. Collect 
 french fries, pizza slices, burgers, and cans of soup (?) for extra points.   

 Jazz Jackrabbit 2 doesn't offer anything new. What it does offer is a synthesis of previous platform 
 greatness. Anti-3D luddites will find more than enough two-dimensional sustenance to keep on resisting 
 the tide of history for another six months. And great-looking sustenance it is.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: rikhan_z
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Jazz Jackrabbit returns in this game. Still shoot his away throughout the level. You collect food 
 and drink items to give you a sugar-rush. Jewels and coins for more points, gathering up enough 
 coins can be used to access a bonus area at the shop till you can find in each level. At the end 
 of some levels, you have to fight a boss, just like many platform games.
  
  Each level has a different theme, however which the excellent use of the PC power, the graphics 
 are quality for its day and are presently wonderfully at high res and the characters are well animated 
 and humorous. 
  
  You can also collect different types of ammo to change the effect the weapon can shoot out or weapons 
 which can used to shoot out different blocks to change the pace of the game a little bit and also 
 a weapon item to speed up the rate, which the basic weapon can fire. 
  
  Other then the popular Sonic and Mariothere nothing new to the platform series however, which 
 fast and smooth loaded gameplay, this allow give you a good reason to play this game, however the 
 game is over in a good 2 to 3 hours. It's extremely short despite having around 15 levels.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WoolieWool
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  Aside from handheld markets, the 2D platform genre is largely dead. Sure, the PlayStation Portable 
 and Nintendo DS get their share, mostly spin-offs of established franchises that on the consoles 
 have all gone 3D, some successfully (Mario) , others not so well (Sonic the Hedgehog) . Other platformers 
 have incorporated shooter mechanics, often to the point where they sort of cease to be platformers 
 and become something like Tomb Raider with lots of jumping puzzles and less cheesecake.
  
  Some might be surprised to know that the PC had its own thriving side-scrolling platformer scene, 
 although it never made it to the 3D revolution (partly because of the massive success of first-person 
 shooters, partly because standard 3D platformer controls make a gamepad with analog sticks all 
 but mandatory) . The PC sidescroller scene, inaugurated by Commander Keen (which, oddly enough, 
 was developed by Id Software. Yes, that Id Software) and further developed by numerous titles from 
 Apogee Software, Epic MegaGames, and others, de-emphasized jumping puzzles in favor of combat, 
 usually giving the player a weapon (usually a gun, but Epic's Jill of the Jungle had creative guided 
 throwing knives) and often a life bar, and filled the levels with much larger numbers of enemies, 
 which were generally more challenging than the Sonic or Mario equivalents.
  
  1994's Jazz Jackrabbit was particularly notable among these, not only for its excellent graphics 
 and catchy soundtrack, but for its seamless integration of the speed-fueled thrill ride of Sonic 
 the Hedgehog into a run-and-gun PC platformer milieu. Jazz was fast, at least as fast as the famous 
 blue hedgehog, but he was also armed to the (buck) teeth, and the game was never short on things 
 to blow up. It also had difficulty levels (which sadly never caught on in console platforming) 
 that affected how many hits Jazz could take, how many hits enemies could take, and how long Jazz 
 had to complete a level. The game also had a wry, sometimes fourth-wall-breaking sense of humor 
 that gleefully parodied many competing games and was chock full of subtle jokes that made the game 
 as fun for adults as for children (who probably didn't get some of the funnier gags) .
  
  Fast forward to 1998, at the height of the 3D revolution, and the fortunes for the platform genre 
 were looking very grim on PC. Super Mario 64 had established a new direction for platformers, but 
 it didn't translate well to PC. Meanwhile, hardware accelerated video cards were becoming an increasingly 
 common component, with games like Half-Life and Quake II taking advantage. A sprite-based 2D platformer 
 in these circumstances seemed doomed, especially one with the misfortune to have been released 
 from the same company as and right after Unreal, which needs no introduction. But that's exactly 
 what Jazz Jackrabbit 2 was, and it soon developed its own cult fanbase -- marrying the best of PC 
 and console platformers before it, Jazz Jackrabbit 2 was a worthy last hurrah for the PC platformer.
 
  
  Even by the standards of the era, Jazz 2 was not a technical marvel. Its hardware acceleration 
 mode was extremely basic and actually reduced graphical quality by removing the lighting system 
 (which really amounted to a darkening of the screen with a bright spot around the character in 
 dark areas) . There were a few basic particle effects, but no filters or anti-aliasing, and the 
 only 3D component was a double-plane sky with horizon that appeared in the background of some levels. 
 The game data amounted to only 40 megabytes all up, despite having two (short) cartoon cutscenes. 
 Despite this, it still looks good, with well-drawn, crisp graphics that make the most of their 
 limited resolution, a charming art style, and vibrant colors (all the textures were 8-bit, but 
 the game could be rendered in 16-bit) . The game engine allows for up to 8 parallax-scrolling layers 
 to captivate players and infuriate level designers. It's amazing to see, on the Carrottus levels, 
 a few independently scrolling sheets of 2D tiles merging into a seamless landscape stretching far 
 into the distance. It's truly a game that is graphically more than the sum of its parts.
  
  There are a few wrinkles. Whether it was for the sake of 320x240 support, artistic laziness, or 
 whatever, the game's tiles and sprites are the same resolution as in the original Jazz Jackrabbit. 
 Jazz is only about 40 pixels tall, and a single tile 32, and at high resolutions (the game supports 
 up to 1024x768) , everything seems awfully small, and large sections of the level are visible in 
 all directions. Some of the blending and water effects look very strange in 8-bit color mode. The 
 introduction video uses the same cartoon as the shareware version and explains nothing of the plot 
 (which is detailed in a comic-book section of the manual) , because the intended intro sequence 
 had to be cut due to time constraints. Some features, like the "wind up" for high speed, colored 
 springs, and TV-screen powerups, are perhaps too reminiscent of Sonic for their own good, and the 
 new soundtrack, though using the same format as the first game's, is not as catchy and lacks the 
 "attitude" of the first Jazz Jackrabbit's music.
  
  Jazz 2's plot is very simple and makes little sense, but sets the theme for the action well enough. 
 After his success in beating turtle crime lord Devan Shell (tortoise and the hare, get it?) , Jazz 
 has finally won over the beautiful Carrottus princess Eva Earlong, and the two are about to marry 
 in a formal ceremony. Jazz's mentally deranged kid brother Spaz is the ring bearer, giving Eva 
 an absurdly large diamond ring. But Devan has the last laugh. He needs the enormous diamond on 
 that ring to power his time machine and wipe the Carrottus rabbits from history (don't think about 
 this plot too much) , and sends a minion to break into the castle and snatch it off of Eva's finger. 
 Queen Earlong, Eva's mother, is furious that Jazz failed to get rid of Devan Shell completely, 
 and locks him in the castle dungeons, but Spaz breaks him out and the game begins.
  
  The game lets you play as Jazz or Spaz, and the differences are more than a sprite swap and wacky 
 laughing sound effects for Spaz. He has a double jump instead of Jazz's gliding using his ears 
 as a helicopter rotor (nowhere near as useful as Tails' similar move in Sonic the Hedgehog) , and 
 instead of Jazz's high jump (which will damage enemies above Jazz) , a flying kick that can travel 
 through several enemies in a row and severely damage bosses. In fact, Spaz is in practice a much 
 more powerful character, can reach places that Jazz cannot, and players using him dominate Jazz 
 players in multiplayer. Spaz's personality is eccentric to say the least, and he twitches, rolls 
 his eyes around, lets his tongue hang out, and laughs maniacally when jumping or running very quickly, 
 whereas Jazz is much more subdued.
  
  Both characters control fluidly and simply, with the same key combinations used to activate their 
 respective special moves, and running, jumping, and shooting feel very natural. The tilesets are 
 carefully "masked" with areas defined as solid or pass-through to make getting around them easy 
 and prevent getting caught on scenery. Most of the weapons are intuitive enough, and in-game text 
 does a good job of telling you about environmental features such as special-weapon blocks and rotating 
 platforms (as well as storyline fluff and jokes) . The player should have a general hang of things 
 within 15 minutes.
  
  The gameplay takes the emphasis on combat instead of jumping over bottomless pits to its ultimate 
 conclusion. The game engine doesn't even support death pits (at the bottom of the level area, if 
 there is no ground in the way, your character will just be stuck there in a falling animation, 
 but there are no places where this bug can happen in the original levels) , and spikes will only 
 take away one of your five health units, represented by hearts. Of course, there are areas that 
 require dexterous movement and jumping to avoid extended exposure to hazards like spikes and fire 
 or a swarm of enemies, but the environment is not the primary threat in Jazz 2. On the other hand, 
 some of the enemies can be quite tricky. There is a fencer who jumps around erratically and has 
 a very fast lunge attack, bees that move maddeningly quickly and even go through terrain blocks, 
 flying lizards that throw bombs, a bong-smoking caterpillar that releases rings of pot smoke that 
 distort the screen and reverse your controls (I don't know how this enemy got past the ESRB with 
 an "E" rating) , and monkeys that toss bananas like grenades and are often positioned high above 
 you, requiring you to expose yourself to their fire repeatedly to wear away their ample hit points.
 
  
  Overall, Jazz 2 is a quite easy game, but there are some more difficult moments, such as an underwater 
 sequence full of rabbit-eating fish that move much faster than Jazz can swim (fortunately, Jazz 
 seems to have infinite lung capacity) , and there is not a consistent climb in difficulty -- after 
 an easy first episode, the difficulty constantly rises and falls and rises again. The average gamer 
 should be able to beat its four (five if you include the shareware demo levels, which are included 
 along with the full game levels) episodes in a few hours.
  
  Jazz and Spaz have a plethora of various items and powerups to aid them in their quest. The game's 
 10 weapons all have different properties, although the starting blaster is effective enough (devastating 
 with a weapon powerup) and has unlimited ammo, and the order in which weapons are numbered has 
 little bearing on their actual power. Fastfire powerups allow you to increase the speed at which 
 you can fire automatically, which frees you from having to hammer the spacebar down as fast as 
 possible. Four quasi-elemental shields are available (water, fire, electric, plasma) , and unlike 
 their Sonic counterparts, do not confer any elemental resistances, but give the player unique weapons 
 while active. Getting hit decreases the time left to use them, so the player is encouraged to be 
 careful and get all the mileage they can out of them. Food items (which can trigger a period of 
 invincibility called the sugar rush after collecting 100 of them) , carrots (replenish health) , 
 weapon powerup boxes (increase the power of your weapons) , coins (allow access to secret areas 
 stuffed full of powerups and treasure) and other items are also sprinkled liberally throughout 
 the levels.
  
  Despite the general excellence of this game, there are numerous signs throughout the game that 
 it was rushed late in development (which was confirmed by Epic) , possibly due to being sidelined 
 to get Unreal out. The first episode clearly establishes a pattern that a boss follows each themed 
 set of two levels (each tileset has two variations, day and night, and a corresponding pair of 
 levels, one day and one night) , but subsequent episodes break away from this convention, placing 
 bosses at the ends of episodes and occasionally right in the middle of an episode, at one point 
 right at the end of the first map of the "hell" unit instead of the second. One boss called the 
 "Tweedle Boss" was apparently intended to go in the Alice in Wonderland/'60s drug trip map set 
 in episode two, but has no sprites and no AI, and never appears in the original game (but can be 
 placed in a map using the editor) . Several other unused enemies and items are also missing proper 
 code. The intro cutscene, as stated before, was recycled from the demo version of the game due 
 to time constraints. The first versions shipped with several bugs, which were fixed by a series 
 of patches. The built-in level editor includes tilesets from the original Jazz Jackrabbit, but 
 they are missing animations, backgrounds, and masking, and are mostly useless (the community has 
 released fixed versions of all of them, and some tilesets from the original game which weren't 
 translated to Jazz 2 in the first place) .
  
  Although the game was commercially a failure (and probably sank its European publisher Project2 
 Interactive) , it managed to spawn two expansions, Holiday Hare '98 (a set of three Christmas levels 
 with two new enemies and a new version of an extremely difficult boss that was cut from the original 
 game) , and The Secret Files, a more substantial addition. The Secret Files is a stand-alone game, 
 but the original Jazz 2 episodes can be copied over to it, giving you six episodes, and even Holiday 
 Hare to make seven (and completely fill the episode screen) . It has a new version of the engine, 
 version 1.24, that includes several new enemy types and support for much larger tilesets than the 
 original. Even a new character was added, a female rabbit named Lori, who wore athletic gear to 
 decently cover her womanly features and had the terrible misfortune of lacking any sort of high 
 jump move. Unfortunately, American publisher Gathering of Developers decided not to publish it, 
 which means it was sold only in Europe, requiring Americans to use eBay or piracy to get it.
  
  Jazz 2 has a built-in multiplayer, although the master servers have long since gone down and 
 games must be joined manually through looking up their IP addresses on fan sites. Players can use 
 Jazz or Spaz, whose fur and gear can be palette-translated into a number of different colors. Game 
 modes include battle (essentially deathmatch) , race, capture the flag, and cooperative, although 
 clever level designers have used trickery to invent other game modes using specially designed maps. 
 The game's multiplayer security isn't very good, making it vulnerable to cheat utilities and game-crashing 
 exploits. The inevitable decline of the community into a hardcore few has probably driven out most 
 of the disruptive players by now.
  
  Jazz 2 came with a fully-featured level editor, although making levels can be deceptively difficult 
 and time consuming, requiring the user to master parallax layers, event placement, and other features. 
 Several items and enemies that never appeared in the original levels can be found in the editor, 
 but not all of them work correctly. Bugs discovered in the game can be exploited to add strange 
 effects such as scenery pieces that fire weapon projectiles or sprite-swapped enemies and other 
 items, although many of them are quite glitchy and not useful in many situation. Outside utilities 
 can extend the editor's functionality, including a program that creates new episode files, and 
 new tilesets can be created for the game. Fan sites like the popular Jazz 2 Online offer hundreds 
 of new levels, episodes, and tilesets, one of the most famous being a "heaven" tileset with an 
 accompanying demonstration level, complete with pearly gates, clouds, and golden statues of harp-playing 
 rabbits. To this reviewer's knowledge, there is no known methods to make in-depth mods that add 
 new enemies or weapons or seriously change the game's behavior.
  
  Overall, despite some minor flaws, Jazz Jackrabbit 2 is an excellent send-off for the side-scrolling 
 PC platformer, and one of the genre's best titles. Those interested in side-scrolling platformers 
 are strongly encouraged to give this game a shot. It never really got the chance it deserved.
 
  
  What's Hot: Fluid controls, intuitive gameplay, great art style, consistently funny
  What's Not: Some rough edges and missing features, limited availability of the most complete versions 
 of the game, no longer supported by the developers, not particularly original, not particularly 
 challenging
  Also Try: Commander Keen: Goodbye Galaxy, Duke Nukem II, Sonic the Hedgehog 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 7:24 am PT
Review:  I have to say, way back in the heydays of PC gaming I used to subscribe to AOL (no flames please!) . 
 The single greatest feature of AOL was their file libraries which had game demos galore. Epic MegaGames 
 back in those days would have pretty in-depth demos of their hottest games available.
  
  Jazz Jackrabbit was one of those, and while I didn't purchase the first one I remembered playing 
 the demo from when I was a kid. When I spotted Jazz Jackrabbit 2 for 10 bucks in the bargain bin, 
 I yearned (that's right, yearned) for those days of afternoon fun side-scrolling action.
  
  JJ2 delivers on that and more. The game was designed to run in Win95 and I was able to get it to 
 run on WinME (I assume XP should run ok) . The graphics seem a little dated, but it does all of 
 its work on very little hardware resources (this is a sprite-based engine after all) . JJ2 takes 
 you through several different worlds with drastically different tilesets. Each level has its own 
 identity and pretty hip soundtrack.
  
  Gameplay is pretty straight-forward. Jazz or his brother Spaz are your two selectable characters. 
 Jazz has faster speed, and Spaz has this helicopter move with his ears (as I recall) . Your primary 
 weapon are guns with different ammo and characteristics (I think about 6 in all) . There's coin-collecting 
 (jewels as I recall) and other platforming elements that transition well.
  
  You get the speed and crazy level design of Sonic, with the music and humor of Gex, and the side-scrolling 
 of Rayman. Cool, eh? Definitely worth you checkin it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShinyRabbit
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Jazz jackrabbit 2 The Secret Files, is the expanded sequel to the amazing original. Featuring some 
 nice multiplayer which can also be played online and a lot of home cooked levels floating around 
 on the internet and the ability to make your own, makes up for the dissapointingly short single 
 player, even with the 9 new levels TSF has to offer, You have the option to play as Jazz, his brother 
 Spaz, or his Sister lori too, if you are any good at side scrollers, you might want to just put 
 it on hard.
  
  If you go to www. jazz2online. com, you can find tonnes of new levels to try, details on tournaments 
 and events, even upload any levels you made in the included Jazz Creation Station
  
  The multiplayer includes co-op, Battle (deathmatch) , capture the flag and treasure hunt, and they 
 can be online too (exept co-op) , it proves side-scrollers CAN be good multiplayers and if you're 
 on at the right times, you should have little trouble getting into a game. This will probably get 
 most of your attention in the whole game.
  
  Gameplay:10 side-scrolling shooting at it's best, and some nice, frantic multiplayer
  
  Graphics:10 
 takes a different approach to the original's colourful, cartoony graphics, while you can't play 
 in higher resoloution than 640x480, which really depends on how well your monitor handles low resouloutions, 
 a flat panel one looks pretty nice
  
  Sound: some of my favourite game musics are in this, not really a lot to go wrong with here
  
 
  Value:10 while the stock levels here may not offer much challenge, theres plenty of downloadable 
 levels to keep you busy here
  
  Summary: it's short but sweet, but as i've said already, the multiplayer and user levels give this 
 as much longevity as you can ask for 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bad-Religion
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 28, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  Since i first got this game like 10 years ago this game has been one of my favorite old time computer 
 games. The weapons in this game are super cool and the levels are diverse and fun. Although this 
 game is fairly easy its still fun go though as iether Jass or Spas (or Spazz however you spell 
 it) . The multiplayer in this game is the best part, it is innovative and fun, the level is big 
 and the secrets are hard to find, as well as the secrets in the singleplayer mode, you can go through 
 the game several times and still find new secrets each time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomsdaydave11
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 29, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome side scroller. Sadly, by todays standards, the graphics suck. I remember I 
 while ago I played this like 24/7. This is probably the best example of the lost side scroller 
 genre. It's especially cool because of the fact that you get a gun. Missile guns, timed explosives, 
 bouncy bullets, ice guns, and flame throwers are all lots of fun to play with. JJ2 is probably 
 best picked up on ebay, because the recommended cost is like $50. Even though this is an awesome 
 game, it's not worth that much. The levels are interesting and I'm still trying to figure out where 
 the creators of this game got they're ideas. They are probably either dead or at a psychiatric 
 clinic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TyphoonNL
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 21, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  In the early days I used to play this game serval times a day, and of course the multiplayer mode 
 :) i really was quite addicted to this game cause it was quite a new thing for me playing online 
 games. so this game was my first experience for the online gaming :) after the 1.21 there was an 
 update to 1.23 and later there was another release that was called the secret files aka 1.24 with 
 a new character called lori a girl bunny, this game also had an multiplayer game and was also very 
 addicting :) and even without the multiplayer this game rocked! and the Jazz Creation Station was 
 also quite fun, you could design your own level or tileset and serve it online what was quite awsome. 
 anyway i'm gonna give it an 9,3 cause I used to play it a serval years and for that year it was 
 quite an game! jazz jackrabbit still lives online tough so, that means the game still is alive! 
 altough later there was an version called Christmas Chronicals what actualy was quite an flop... 
 anyhow jazz jacrabbit 2 rocked!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sahfire
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 25, 2007 1:40 am PT
Review:  With fun, addicting gameplay, wonderful graphics, a great soundtrack and a full assortment of multiplayer 
 options, Jazz Jackrabbit 2 is an excellent game for anyone with a desire for entertainment. Jazz 
 and Spaz each have tremendous speed and agility, and you can use their special skills to navigate 
 these treacherous worlds. To get through a stack of blocks, you can use a butt stomp to smash through 
 them in a single move. Click to enlargeJazz has some unique special abilities -- helicopter ears 
 that let him drift through the air and a super jump that can catapult him to new heights. Spaz 
 has his own tricks up his sleeve, including a double jump and an explosive sidekick. These moves 
 blur the rabbits across the screen and provide the fast and furious gameplay that you're looking 
 for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EcksBocks360
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 5, 2006 5:26 am PT
Review:  I remember playing the original Jazz Jackrabbit and it had excellent side-scrolling gameplay, superb 
 music, good levels, and great characters. Well, in Jazz Jackrabbit 2, it's exactly the same, if 
 not better! 
  
  You play as, well, have the option of 2 different characters, Jazz and Spazz. each character has 
 their own abilities: Jazz can fly for a limited amount of time, and Spazz can do a powerful kick 
 attack. There are loads of weapons in the game, and there is alot of exploring to do in each of 
 the levels. The only thing short from perfect about this game is that the enemies have primitive 
 AI, and they make the game way too "supermariobros-like" for fans of other genres. 
  
  this game is superb, no matter how you play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluejay64
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 18, 2006 2:20 am PT
Review:  Unknown to most gamers, Jazz Jackrabbit was a quirky 2D platforming similar the Sonic or Mario 
 games it is influenced by. Favoured for its colourful levels and bizzarre characters, not least 
 the questionable Spaz Rabbit.
  
  While the game is not original in its concept, a side scrolling shooter similar to Megaman, Prince 
 of Persia or Commander Keen, the execution and wonderful level design make Jazz something special. 
 The levels were vibrant and unique, each one fresh and original. The weird, trippy one with the 
 red cats comes to mind as does the final level set in hell. 
  
  The game played in a similar vain to the Sonic games on the MegaDrive, playing at a fast pace and 
 borrowing the bumpers and speed boosts used in the aforementioned games. The game is fun but reasonably 
 short and pretty easy too.
  
  One of the strongest parts of the game was its multiplayer modes, I spent many hours racing, battling 
 and fighting for jewels as a young child and even played through the whole game in co-op with a 
 a friend. Multiplayer modes are rare for Platform games and Jazz's modes were particularly good.
 
  
  Maybe, it is the nostalgia speaking but I can't help but feel that Jazz Jackrabbit can hold its 
 ground against classics like Sonic the Hedgehog and Super Mario World. While the gameplay is not 
 quite of the same standard, the level design and imagination is superior. So, If you see Jazz and 
 Spaz sitting depressed in a bargain bin somewhere, take the unloved, little known rabbits home 
 and give them some much needed love.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: raider_comsympa
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 14, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  Not much to say, but this game is still fun despite being a couple of years old. The gameplay is 
 nice, the only real bad part is the bad graphics, but considering that this came out years ago, 
 I think that this can be ignored. Multiplayer action has increased this games life a lot, and people 
 still play Jazz Jackrabbit 2 online! Gamers who love old games will flip over this, its a must-have. 
 With the new patch/expansion, comes the addition of a new character, Lori, who I prefer to play 
 as, as well as a new single-player campaign. The map editor means that you can create your own 
 maps, which is fun, and making secret passages of course! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T_Magdi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 28, 2006 2:30 am PT
Review:  Wanna copy of Jazz 2? Sorry, it is in Germany where I play this game. I had a surpise when Jazz 
 2 was installed. Sure, Jazz Jackrabbit was a speedy game, and defently better than Sonic - but 
 the graphics are digital. These graphics, in this game, are better then the last - more '3D-ish', 
 even if this is a 2d game.
  
  Huh? A red rabbit? Who is he? Well, his name is called 'Spaz', a silly rabbit, that makes this 
 game funny. HELL FUNNY! Jazz can now talk better. When you are waiting, an Jazz stays still, he 
 might say "Hey? Hey! C'mon, whats up?" And Spax just shoots a UFO.
  
  Jazz2 is the best side-scrolling game ever. Download the Demo, then purchase online - it is better 
 than Sonic 3. It ain't 8-bit, ya know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sphericaleclips
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 16, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  At first glance this game seem to be a dud. It reminded me of an old Vick20 Game I use to have.
 
  But when you start to play you find that it is so much more, the game play is huge and but with 
 the ability to design your own levels the possibility for friends to interact and design levels 
 for each other make the game play even bigger.
  The major draw back of the game is that the levels are easy to remember, where everything is. 
 
  There are also secret hidey holds to find jewels, lives, power ups and the such, but to be honest 
 there is nothing new in this that really separate it from other platformers. 
  But saying that I found that I came back to it time and time again.
  The game is good but not 
 worth 29.99 in my opinion. Where you can get an all action 3der for that money, but it is fun 
 especially playing with other and a very short learning curve. This one is not top of my list, 
 but I do have a small soft spot for it as it made me chuckle a few times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wormri
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 15, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  this game's rocks.
  it is keeping the jazz's elements from the first game and the gaming is fun.
  for today's gamers 
 it can be a stupied or whatever, but in my heart (yeah it sounds like a sentence from an anime 
 series...) it'll be always a great game.
  sooooo what do we have heere? well errr.... fine story line- yeah, i know it could been better 
 but anyway it doesn't ruin the game.
  you can choose either to play mad spaz or cool jazz wich every one of them has it's own abilities 
 (well jazz can smash blocks when he jumps ans spaz can smash them with landing on them) and own 
 personality (you will minf it when you will leave them to stand for a couple of minutes.. spazz 
 will shoot saucers and eat birds, and jazz will say "hey hey".
  never mind the characters- the weapons are the main thing- it's brilliant! every weapon has it's 
 own good and bad, and it's funny ammo, it's cool and destructive, and most important of all... 
 it's green! so green! (kidding kidding.. a quote from a movie in the movies site called come on.. 
 lol nvm)
  i meant it's cool and cartoonish looking.
  
  any way- buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikromouse
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 8, 2005 11:12 pm PT
Review:  I have to say, way back in the heydays of PC gaming I used to subscribe to AOL (no flames please!) . 
 The single greatest feature of AOL was their file libraries which had game demos galore. Epic MegaGames 
 back in those days would have pretty in-depth demos of their hottest games available.
  
  Jazz Jackrabbit was one of those, and while I didn't purchase the first one I remembered playing 
 the demo from when I was a kid. When I spotted Jazz Jackrabbit 2 for 10 bucks in the bargain bin, 
 I yearned (that's right, yearned) for those days of afternoon fun side-scrolling action.
  
  JJ2 delivers on that and more. The game was designed to run in Win95 and I was able to get it to 
 run on WinME (I assume XP should run ok) . The graphics seem a little dated, but it does all of 
 its work on very little hardware resources (this is a sprite-based engine after all) . JJ2 takes 
 you through several different worlds with drastically different tilesets. Each level has its own 
 identity and pretty hip soundtrack. 
  
  Gameplay is pretty straight-forward. Jazz or his brother Spaz are your two selectable characters. 
 Jazz has faster speed, and Spaz has this helicopter move with his ears (as I recall) . Your primary 
 weapon are guns with different ammo and characteristics (I think about 6 in all) . There's coin-collecting 
 (jewels as I recall) and other platforming elements that transition well.
  
  You get the speed and crazy level design of Sonic, with the music and humor of Gex, and the side-scrolling 
 of Rayman. Cool, eh? Definitely worth you checkin it out. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
