-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/jediknight2jedioutcast/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  1, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.7, 44 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 5,502 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Developer: Raven Software
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Mar 26, 2002 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Jedi Outcast is simply one of the easiest games to recommend this year. 

 A good first impression is always important. Surprisingly, LucasArts and Raven Software's Jedi Knight 
 II: Jedi Outcast doesn't really give one. Instead, the third game in the long-running Star Wars-themed 
 shooter series initially gives the impression that it's a flashy but basic action game that isn't 
 as ambitious as its highly acclaimed predecessor, Jedi Knight. However, Jedi Outcast soon transforms 
 from a typical first-person shooter to an exceptional Star Wars action game that contains some 
 of the best combat sequences since Half-Life, the most distinctive control mechanics since Max 
 Payne, and the most involving plot in a Star Wars game since Jedi Knight.           You'll see 
 some familiar faces in Jedi Outcast.    

  As in the two previous games in this series, Jedi Knight II casts you in the role of Kyle Katarn, 
 a gruff mercenary who lends his smuggling skills to the Rebellion during its uprising against the 
 Empire. Katarn has a storied past that has been well chronicled in the original Dark Forces and 
 its sequel Jedi Knight, and fans of the series will be glad to know that his moody manner and subtle 
 pessimism remain intact in Jedi Outcast. The force is strong in Katarn, and he's no slouch with 
 a lightsaber either, but after nearly falling to the dark side during the events of Jedi Knight, 
 he's chosen to shun his Jedi ways in order to return to his life as a smuggler and mercenary for 
 the Alliance. The game opens with Katarn and his trusty pilot, Jan Ors, on one such mission. They 
 receive an urgent call from Mon Mothma telling the pair to investigate a distress call from the 
 surface of a planet that was thought to be uninhabited. There, Katarn and Ors uncover a plot by 
 the remnant Imperial forces to create an army of dark warriors who are technologically infused 
 with the force.   

  In your quest to put a stop to this army of cybernetic soldiers, you'll fight your way through 
 24 single-player levels that span eight different environments. The single-player game is relatively 
 long compared with the single-player modes in recent shooters, and it's also quite tough at the 
 default difficulty. Some of the exotic locales you'll visit, like Yavin and the cloud city of Bespin, 
 will be very familiar to Star Wars fans. Other levels are quite new, such as a mining facility 
 on Artus and the innards of a massive capital ship called the Doom Giver. You'll also run into 
 many new faces, as well as a handful of familiar ones who will undoubtedly please fans of the source 
 material. Included in this notable cast of characters are Luke Skywalker and Lando Calrissian, 
 the latter voiced by none other than Billy Dee Williams himself. The story moves along through 
 the use of good-looking prerendered cinematics, as well as in-game cutscenes that tend to focus 
 close in on characters' faces, most of whom make use of believable facial animation and lip syncing. 
           What are you waiting for, him to shoot first?    

  Of course, not all the characters you'll meet in Jedi Outcast will be friendly. You'll encounter 
 swarms of angry rodians and other assorted bounty hunters. And storm troopers -- lots of them, especially 
 during the first five missions. In fact, save for a handful of interrogation droids and a pair 
 of AT-STs, the only enemies you'll run into at first are storm troopers, and the repetitive task 
 of gunning down these white-clad soldiers will quickly wear thin. Kyle doesn't start the game with 
 any force powers, nor does he initially have his lightsaber. Instead he'll usually be stuck with 
 the Imperials' own inaccurate assault rifle. Furthermore, the first levels of Jedi Outcast are 
 practically brimming with key-hunt puzzles and platform-jumping challenges. While there's a third-person 
 view to help you time such jumps better, you'll invariably get frustrated early on at having to 
 do so much jumping around, all for the sake of opening a door. Your gun-toting enemies will also 
 exhibit some strange behavior during these early stages.   

  If you can weather the first few of hours of Jedi Outcast, you'll note that it takes a sharp turn 
 for the better. Suffice it to say that Kyle regains his force powers and lightsaber, the combination 
 of which makes for some very satisfying and original action. There's nothing quite like walking 
 into a room of storm troopers and sending them all crashing to the floor with a force-filled flick 
 of your wrist, or fending off a cantina full of pistol-wielding drunks with nothing other than 
 your lightsaber. The game departs from Jedi Knight's open-ended character advancement system. In 
 Jedi Outcast, you'll earn your force powers linearly. Every time you complete a mission, you'll 
 be imbued with a specific new set of force powers, and as you progress through the game, your existing 
 force powers will increase in strength. Each of your force powers has three levels, and by the 
 end of the game, you'll be doing backward flips onto catwalks, choking the life out of bad guys 
 before tossing them off ledges, sending arcs of searing electricity from your fingertips, and generally 
 feeling like a bona fide Jedi master.    

 The game has eight force powers, most of which are taken from Jedi Knight. New powers include a 
 Jedi mind trick that confuses enemies and causes them to do things like shoot their comrades and 
 open locked doors for you, as well as force speed, which causes everything and everyone around 
 you to move in slow motion in an effect that's very similar to bullet time in Max Payne, only Kyle 
 continues to move at normal speed while his foes are trapped in slow motion. The game's default 
 control scheme makes accessing these force powers a little awkward, but by remapping some of the 
 keys, you'll be able to cycle through these powers as quickly as you can cycle through your collection 
 of weapons. Actually, besides the lightsaber and the force powers, you'll also find a number of 
 new weapons as you proceed onward, some of which are extremely powerful. But you'll have so much 
 fun using your lightsaber and force powers that you'll rarely have the desire to use any of the 
 game's other weapons.           Jedi Outcast's lightsaber battles are the highlight of the game. 
    

  The lightsaber is excellent -- never before has melee combat in a shooter been so effectively executed. 
 You can fight effectively from either a first-person or third-person perspective. In addition to 
 gaining force powers, Kyle is also able to advance his lightsaber technique. When you first get 
 your saber, you can block a certain percentage of incoming shots with your saber automatically. 
 You can also throw it in an arc like a boomerang. As the game progresses, these two skills will 
 improve, so that at their fullest potential, you'll be able to deflect virtually all blaster fire 
 and actually control the saber as it weaves through the air. Beyond that, the saber combat in the 
 game is surprisingly deep. The type of swing that Kyle takes is dependent on his movement direction 
 and the location of the nearest enemies. So if an enemy is behind you, and you hit the backward 
 key as you swing your saber, Kyle will stab backward. Time your strike at the apex of a jump, and 
 Kyle will swing his saber downward in a deadly arc.   

  Kyle can also use three different combat stances while holding the saber, though you start with 
 only one. This initial stance lets you inflict a decent amount of damage and string together up 
 to five moderately fast slashes by properly timing your button presses. Later in the game, you'll 
 learn the fast stance, which lets Kyle strike quickly and string an infinite amount of attacks 
 together, though the strikes do less damage. Finally, you'll learn the strong combat style, which 
 uses slow swings that do a considerable amount of damage but leaves you wide open for a counterattack. 
 You can cycle through these stances with a press of a button, though you'll probably find one style 
 that bests fits you and stick with it. But there's a lot to the saber control, and while you could 
 pretty much get through the game simply by hacking away with it (or by relying more on your guns) , 
 you'll thoroughly enjoy the experience if you take the time to learn all the nuances of the lightsaber. 
           You'll need some fancy moves to defeat the Reborn.    

  A handful of storm troopers or bounty hunters won't stand a chance against you once you've mastered 
 your force powers and lightsaber. But as you make your way through some of the later levels, you'll 
 start running into dozens of enemies at once. The game gets very tough, and dependence on any single 
 aspect of your arsenal -- weapons, force powers, or lightsaber -- won't get you very far. You have 
 to find the proper balance between all three, or at least between your force powers and saber. 
 And even if you learn to handle roomfuls of enemies at once, the game will keep you on your toes 
 by pitting you against a series of bosses, all of whom carry lightsabers and are well trained in 
 the ways of the force. While some of the enemy AI of the storm troopers is impressive -- they retreat 
 when taking losses and try to flank you when possible -- it's combat with these saber-wielding enemies 
 that's the most memorable aspect of Jedi Outcast. It only takes a second or two to dispatch a storm 
 trooper, but a single one of these dark Jedi can take up to a minute of nonstop combat to defeat. 
 Some of the more heated matches will have you locking sabers with enemies, frantically pushing 
 the attack button to overpower them like in the classic fighting game Samurai Shodown.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (125 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: thickmustache
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 2:02 pm PT
Review:  I'm yet another gamer who grew up playing the classic LucasArts SW titles: X-Wing, TIE Fighter, 
 Dark Forces, Jedi Knight... you name it, I obsessed over it in grade school. Right around the time 
 Mysteries of the Sith and Grim Fandango had come and gone, though, something happened to the company. 
 Most hardcore fans remember how a raft of mediocre-to-awful Star Wars titles in the late 90's dragged 
 LucasArts' rep through the mud. Star Wars games had become so formulaic, boring, and just plain 
 bad that LA farmed out dev duties on the next installment of one of their most famed franchises 
 to a third party, something that was fairly unprecedented at the time. While Raven had a respectable 
 track record for their work with iD and on Soldier of Fortune, I worried that there was no way 
 JKII could live up to its predecessors.
  
  Well, this is one of those games that just seems to hold up with age. Despite the interminably 
 drawn out pre-lightsaber section of the game, the occasionally obtuse puzzles, and the unremarkable 
 firearms, there's a lot that hasn't changed: the glee of using your Force powers to throw an entire 
 squad of stormtroopers or bounty hunters into bottomless pits, the excellent saber duels, the addictive 
 multiplayer, and the giddy cool factor of getting to fight alongside Luke Skywalker for a couple 
 of minutes. I wish LucasArts would make an honest effort to give us another Star Wars action title 
 of as high a quality as this.
  
  Nothing about this game was groundbreaking when it was released, nor is it really ahead of its 
 time now. JKII is the equivalent of a $10 hamburger: nothing fancy or revolutionary, just straightforward 
 and rewarding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theplagued
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 3:47 pm PT
Review:  As a Star Wars fan, I have enjoyed most games based on its canon but Jedi Outcast's levels were 
 difficult. I did not die, rather, it was confusing as to where to go next. This game will not satisfy 
 the action element within you as it takes a lot of brainwork to figure somethings out and using 
 a walkthrough just ruins the Star Wars immersion effect.
  
  I understand many people love this game but I found it hard to figure out where to go as have the 
 things were based on acrobatics. The controls were rusty to a player like me and the third person 
 view toggle made Katarn look very un-Jedi-ish. 
  
  There were also little choices and plot elements. 
  
  The Jedi Outcast should definitely not 
 be played if you want to hack, slash, or drown in Star Wars lore. Instead the maze-like maps will 
 have you searching for hours. True, you have to figure out a lot of stuff but is knowing when to 
 crouch, where to jump, really worth consuming your time? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2009 2:38 am PT
Review:  The games related to the Star Wars franchise work as sequels, prequels and midquels of the movies. 
 Jedi Outcast is no exception. Playing as Kyle Kataran, you will encounter the dark forces and save 
 the galaxy from doom.
  
  While the weapons and their function are not what you would expect, the game runs pretty well when 
 you use the force and a lightsaber. The battle mode when using such a weapon is delightful and 
 very realistic. Apart from the saber, you will be able to do lots of combos and movements, which 
 makes things even better. Apart from all these, the game posesses an original story which is set 
 down perfectly well and will attract every gamer, as it is quite easy to follow.
  
  However, all the latter are nonsense in front of the game's multiplayer mode, which is amazing. 
 You will find that there are many maps to play in mostly taken from the game, and lots of characters 
 to adapt to. You can customize your force powers, depending on how many force points you have. 
 There are also many other customizations and game modes which make the multiplayer part of the 
 game much better than the original story. And what matters if you are not online? The game will 
 allow you to play with opponents controlled by itself.
  
  All these would fall behind if there wasn't for the visuals. Jedi Outcast is designed with a magnificent 
 engine, and that shown in some certain parts of the game. Unfortunately, sometimes they seem to 
 crash, but it is not such important and won't stand in your way.
  
  Generally, Jedi Outcast is a very good game for every fan of FPS games and the Star Wars movies. 
 But even if you are not, you are still very likely to adore this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alexrmf
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2009 8:30 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best SW Games I ever played
  The story is excellent, the characters are deep and the action is great
  I can still remember 
 the first time I played that I was actually pretty furious about "Dessan" killing Jan... I wanted 
 to put my hand through the monitor and choke him to death (force choke apparently didn't work)
 
  This game is highly recommended for any action game loving fan but for a SW fan it's something 
 very special because you get to "see" all those familiar faces that you came to care about.
  Right now I'm playing the first Jedi Knight (Dark Forces 2) and I get to see the and feel the difference 
 between the 2 game's lightsaber combat, 
  In outcast the lightsaber is the best weapon you can get and the ritual to regain it is perfect, 
 not to mention the tricks you can do with it. 
  The first few levels till you gain the saber and start gaining back your ability to use the Force 
 are not too appealing, for some people this is a showstoper and will give up playing but little 
 do they know that after those levels, the real fun starts, so if you're a little patient you'll 
 get a great reward
  The Force powers and their use is greatly enhanced in Outcast over the first Jedi Knight and you'll 
 love the higher levels of all the powers even if you're not a fan. I remember rushing into a squad 
 of Stormtroppers just to push them all away and make them fall of ledges (ha ha ha) I haven't seen 
 anything like that in other games except SW.
  The ending is one of the best possible in a true Star Wars style.
  To conclude this review, I 
 must say that I'm really looking forward to another game from this series with Kyle Katarn being 
 the playable character.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Lucius
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2008 9:39 pm PT
Review:  I picked up this game in the Best of PC pack while looking for Kotor. I got bored one day and installed 
 this game on my PC. I was shocked to find that it was a First Person Shooter/ Third Person Adventure 
 hybrid. I didnt know what to think. I dug a little deeper and found a game worthy to be called 
 Star Wars.
  
  You play as Kyle Katarn, Ex-Jedi and New Republic Agent. You recieve an alert that the Rement of 
 The Empire is trying to infuse their soldiers with the Force. Led by thier leader, the Dark Jedi 
 Desann, the Empire unleashes a full scale assalt on the Jedi Envlave on Yavin 4. Now Kyle must 
 retake the path of a Jedi and stop Desann before its too late.
  
  As in all my Reviews I focus on the Story. I found it detaled and full of suprises when I first 
 played. The game takes you to many planets in the SW galaxy such as Yavin 4, Cloud City, and Nar 
 Shadda. Due to the fact that this is an older game, the graphics are a little slow in spots but 
 you'll soon forget all of that when you are surrounded by an army of Stormtroopers with a blaster 
 as your only weapon. The first couple levels are done in First Person as a blaster as your only 
 weapon, but soon enough you get your lightsaber and you'll all but forget your guns, all execpt 
 for maybe a shotgun or two.
  
  I give this a 9.0 and recommend it for all SW fans to play this game at least once on any System 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voldy26
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 22, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  As the first game with decent graphics and physics set in the Star Wars universe, Jedi Outcast 
 certainly deserves some credit. It is an FPS by genre, but what makes it special is, of course, 
 your lightsaber, which, combined with your Force powers, allows you to rain down some seriously 
 hardcore violence on your enemies, and the duels with enemy Jedi are nothing short of awesome. 
 The firearms, on the other hand, are completely boring and used only out of necessity. The plot 
 (omg galaxy in danger badass dark jedi) is nothing more and nothing less than one would expect 
 from a Star Wars game. However, the developers really crossed the line when it came to level design. 
 They appear to believe that bigger is better as fanatically as a suicide bomber believes he will 
 be going to heaven. Well, sorry to disappoint you, guys, but it's not the size, it's how you use 
 it. Huge levels are fun - IF they are varied and beautiful. If, on the other hand, they consist 
 of a long series of identical rooms (or cliffs) , they are frustrating and mind-numbing (especially 
 when the predominant color is gray) , and not even the fighting can dispel the boredom. The level 
 size/amount of action balance is right only in the last couple of levels. On the whole, the game 
 is more satisfying than not, but very much inferior to its sequel, Jedi Academy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matorodude
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  STAR WARS Jedi Knight 2: Jedi Outcast is the best STAR WARS game ever. Better than Dark Forces 1 
 and 2, batter than......... everything.
  
  
  Gameplay: 10
  VERY epic first person action and third person action, be a lightsaber or gun. You have a lot of 
 moves and weapons. And multiplayer is pretty fun.
  
  Graphics: 10
  The best grahpics ever on a PC game. Nice, clean graphics, so that ahead of you isint foggy, brown 
 and graen or anything.
  
  Sound: 10
  Ah, that wonderful sound!! It sounds just like off the movies like blasters lightsaber dyings and 
 other things.
  
  Replay Value: 10
  Great replayable game, fun levels and multiplayer too. And um........... well after you beat the levels 
 you can go back and play them.
  
  Overall: 10
  Overall this game is perfect in every way. When you combine multiplayer, first and third person action, there 
 no telling what you will get, and lucasarts pulled the rabbit out of the hat!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cerebris
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 13, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is a 7.0 pure and simple, it's fun, it's enjoyable, and you'll die a total of at least 
 100 times.
  
  If you run out of ammo in the later levels, unless you've perfected the lightsaber and are extremely 
 lucky, you'll be incapable of continuing on.
  
  This game really doesn't give you much direction as much as let you figure out what you're supposed 
 to do... I remember I was trapped on the third level for quite a while, before I could actually 
 do anything, and on the next to last level, those rocks were hard to spot, and the pathing through 
 the swamps was poorly designed.
  
  Nevertheless, it is a good game, but don't expect for this to be a stress reliever, as it will 
 more often than not bring a degree of stress to you, in a high level.
  
  It'd be nice if there was a map, but there really isn't any of a good variant, and it'd also be 
 nice if there was a degree of logic or sense to one's position, but of course there isn't any of 
 that either, and finally it'd be really nice, perhaps even KIND, if there was a logical objective 
 branch... but there isn't that either.
  
  Many times you'll die from something you can't see, when in truth you were sniped or cut by a thrown 
 blade, and you'll find that you'll be saving and loading the same areas slowly but surely, as you 
 fight to eventually get to a point where you don't have to worry, only to forget to save for 5 
 minutes and be sent back, and have to do it all over again.
  
  Good luck with the game, and I do suggest you try it, as it is a classic and a great find... but 
 I wouldn't even consider doing it on the hardest difficulty, after what I had to go through (and 
 I've never beaten a game in more than 16 hours, and consider myself to be quite skilled at them) 
 just to beat the final levels.
  
  As for multiplayer support, when I first got this game it was there but lacking, as of now it is 
 barely existent.
  
  My best advice for this game is to read the manual carefully.
  
  Best of luck,
  
  - Cere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_sageX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Jedi Knights was an awesome star wars game that delivered what we were all waiting for, 
 a nice and solid Jedi experience, Jedi Outcast has arrived and has refined the Jedi combat system, 
 though the problem is it takes quite a while and effort to get to that part.
  
  Story: After defeating the dark Jedi Jerece Kyle Katarn almost fell to the dark side, as a result 
 Kyle decided to abandon the ways of the force and continue his life as a mercenary with his partner 
 Jan.
  10 years have passed since the fall of the death star, while the emperor is finally vanquished 
 Imperial remnants continue secret activities in the hopes of reviving the Empire, to vanquish the 
 "traitorous" new Republic and once again obtain dominion over the galaxy.
  Kyle and Jan were contacted by the Rebels to investigate a coded transmission made by the remnants 
 on Kejim and find out what they plan to do with the valley of the Jedi.
  
  Game design: As far as graphics goes it's a great improvement! Environments and characters are 
 well detailed and animations are smooth and slick.
  While in the old game cut scenes were pre-rendered the cut scenes here (except for space ship travels) 
 are run through real time using the game's Quake III engine, which doesn't look bad.
  The environments are complex and wide with lots of enemies, platforming elements, interaction and 
 secret areas.
  
  Game play: You will play as Kyle Katarn, in the first  of the game you will be running around 
 with guns shooting bad guys, but will later get your lightsaber and force powers and as the game 
 progresses you will gain new force powers and better saber skills.
  Lightsaber swings are handled pretty well, some swing automatically happens depends on the situation 
 (e. g if there is an enemy behind Kyle will stab backwards) .
  My favourite part is when fighting other dark jedis the swords collide and flash and there are 
 certain moments where you will go through a weapon lock where you have to click the mouse multiple 
 times to win the dual, the jedi combat system is pretty deep and there are lots of moves and force 
 powers to learn.
  The dark and light side system from the last games has been removed in favour of a progression 
 based development, meaning once you reach a stage you will gain new powers regardless of how many 
 enemies you killed keeping progression pretty simple.
  The multi-player is decent, its basically a Quake multi-player battle but you can choose different 
 characters from the game and can go through either an all out shoot out or head on lightsaber combat.
 
  
  Sound: Voice actors are well selected and the dialogues are well written and spoken. In The music 
 department you will get music from the original film trilogy. Sound and voice effects were well 
 implemented.
  
  Star Wars Jedi Knight II Jedi Outcast is a great sequel but not without its share of problems.
 
  The first part of the game you will only use guns and  of the game is pretty long (around 4 hours 
 of play before you get your lightsaber) and because the guns are pretty weak the first bit of the 
 game can be boring or frustrating, it basically takes too long to get to the part people bought 
 the game for (which is Jedi Combat) .
  Another problem really lays with the Jedi Combat it self. While the combat system is pretty deep 
 advanced moves are way too difficult to execute.
  At the beginning of the game the swings are pretty inaccurate and you will find yourself missing 
 hits because you were either not close enough or not on the right angle, also performing cool acrobats 
 like wall running or summersault swings is difficult due to super precise and unresponsive controls, 
 and you will often get in disadvantages especially when fighting against opponent dark Jedis that 
 can make all those super cool (and super hard) moves almost constantly and effortlessly, they should 
 have programmed more simple controls.
  Also while navigating through environments you will often get stuck not knowing what to do or where 
 to go because (apart from the objectives list) there are no indicators or maps to help you through 
 and you will most definitely end up asking for help or look through a walkthrough online.
  Also all figures are programmed the same, there are no uniquely designed and animated character 
 figures, what makes them different is their costumes and voice, nothing more.
  Also apart from multi-player the game almost has no replay value, meaning once your done with story 
 your pretty much done with the game, which is quite disappointing.
  
  Regardless Jedi Outcast is a promising sequel with plenty of game play hours and fans should be 
 pleased with the deep Jedi Combat and engaging story.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mickeyminime
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  I have not played the game in years, my bro i think either sold it, or lost it. Although it was 
 his game, its his resposibility to look after his games. i have not been able to find the game 
 in any store ive looked in for many years now. but it was a great game, i have to admit that i 
 did use cheats later on, cheats that enabled you to cut the enemy in to little peaces with a lightsaber.... WTF!!!! 
 JESUS WHO EVER CREATED OR EVER INVENTED A CHEAT TO CUT PEOPLE UP AND SEE THERE LIMBS FLY OFF EVERYWHERE 
 IS BRILLIANT!!!! like thats the first star wars game that enabled you to do that. the head, arms, 
 legs, foot, hands and body was cut up. with out it, it was just the odd limb but the cheat made 
 it brilliant. other star wars games lack that ability!... or cheat should i say. the other cheat 
 was changing the saber colour to red, purple, orange, green, yellow, i think there was another 
 colour but it made the game great. sadly the fighting was abit to fast where the enemy sith or 
 jedi jump everywhere like spider man, it was ok, but i wanted and prayed to have a normal pace 
 fighting where the lightsabers clash, jump now and then, use powers, then after a few dozen hits, 
 he falls in to a pill of doggy food... or me if i didnt watch my guard. the story was good from 
 what i can remember, great to see your character be all scruffy, needs a shave, and only has a 
 pistle... no powers or lightsaber until later when you have to work for it. i hope other star wars 
 games enable you to cut people up, not slash them only for them to fall down and still be intact.... like 
 a lightsaber cuts through all! i do not remember the cheats to change colour and enable to slice 
 people up 100% but im sure its on the site, or just on the net. apart from that im going to look 
 for the game and buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fpsgunguy
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2008 4:30 am PT
Review:  this game was one of the games that really got me into gaming. when i first played it i found it 
 really hard and only got to the third level because i couldn't work out one of the puzzles. the 
 game will probably leave you confused without knowing what to do several times and you will probably 
 have to consult a walkthrough which will be quite hard to find now that the game is 6 years old. 
 but the game is great fun in multiplayer and in single player mode with lots of multiplayer maps 
 taken from single player and over twenty medium sized levels. the story is immersive but it isnt 
 anything that will get you really excited because it focuses too much on the main character kyle 
 katarn and less on the other characters who have plenty of potential to be interesting. having 
 said that at least the game has a decent story although not quite as good as KOTOR or KOTOR2. the 
 gameplay is good although the controls and combos can leave you feeling restricted because some 
 off the attacks leave you completely open to attack, i have died many times using a stupidly slow 
 swing. there are different styles for use with the lightsaber so you can suit the style to your 
 situation, which along with more powerful force powers are unlocked as you move along in the game. 
 overall i think this game is fast and exciting with brilliant graphics and gameplay for its time 
 and therefore i gave 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  a long time ago in a galaxy far far away...
  
  STAR WARS JEDI OUTCAST: what can i say about this amazing game? for an 2002 game its simply amazing!
 
  it has the formula of a great game:
  - fun to play
  - good story
  - good multiplyer
  - good options
  
  so now lets talk about every thing in JEDI OUTCAST
  
  sounds: the game 
 has great sounds effects like the sound of the lightsaber and the sound track from the movies its 
 very fun, great voice acting
  (voice of kyle katarn) and more good sound effects of the shooting and lightsabers battles
  
 
  graphics: for 2002 game the game is really good, it got some real good visual effects and more... 
 the graphics is really good (for 2002)
  
  gameplay: the gameplay is very fun! in the start you dont have the lightsaber... you need to get 
 it in half of the game you starts with orginal guns, so shooting in this game are great and when 
 you get the lightsaber the game is even more fun! also the game is very fun when you use the force 
 (PUSH, PULL, SPEED and more..)
  
  story: this is the best thing in JEDI OUTCAST finally a new story in STAR WARS UNIVERSE the game 
 continue from the last game (STAR WARS DARK FORCES I AND II) this is like episode XII or somthing 
 when you play with a new charter "kyle katarn", the story is after the last games when kyle isnt 
 want to be a jedi anymore but when a new dark jedi name dessan captures jan, kyle go to the jedi 
 (where you can see luke skywalker) to train and becume a jedi again...
  
  the game is "fun" "good story" and worth playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: penguinboy95
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  in this day and time star wars has gone to the legos which isn't all bad but if you want to get 
 the good stuff you came to the right place. to start the combat is just plain fun. the light saber 
 combat is easily the best part. their are 3 stances quick, normal, and strong. each of these are 
 dramatically different. quick makes you're attacks faster with and its easy to block with. normal 
 is just a medium in just about every thing you can think of but is a lot slower than quick and 
 barely faster than strong. and strong is the best way to take out bosses and thats just about it. 
 it may not seam like you have a lot of combat options but the blasters really give you a choice 
 of combat. if you watched the video review they said that you start with 2 weapons but in reality 
 you have 6 which are thermal detanaters, det packs, mines, a powerful blaster, woke bow caster, 
 and a imperial assault rifle. you gain all of those weapons on eater the first world or the first 
 level in the second world. all of the force powers you get also have a affect on combat. pull steals 
 the weapons out of hands and speed allows you to take out a room of enamys before the first kill 
 hits the ground. the only flaws are that the outdoor environments look blocky and the lips on the 
 people just move up and down. the levels in this game are huge and full of enamys and are fun to 
 play over and over again. this game also packs a lot of platforming. for example in one level you 
 have to go through a engine in a huge battle ship. this game is not fore every one but for people 
 who want a good first person adventure or a good third person adventure this game will instantly 
 become their favorite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smchacko
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Jedi Knight 2 : Jedi Outcast stars Kyle Katarn. He is the lead of the first Jedi Knight, but the 
 story is separate enough that new players will be able to follow along.
  
  With his partner Jan, Kyle investigates some Imperial activity and gets swept into a lengthy adventure 
 leading him through many Imperial facilities, Jedi temples, Mining colonies, ships and jungles 
 as he chases down a dark Jedi named Dessan.
  
  === GOOD ================================================
  
  Polished: The graphics, maps, 
 story, game flow, music and sounds are all top-notch. There was certainly a strong attention to 
 details in the design.
  
  Awesome music: The classic Star Wars music is used wonderfully. It kicks in when the battle gets 
 thick. Its great when you're sneaking through hallways infested with Stormtroopers and the Imperial 
 march is humming in the background.
  
  Detailed Environments: There are several environments such as jungles, mining stations, canyons, 
 cities and temples, but the majority of the game takes place in "Imperial" places. The buildings 
 are realistic and extremely complex. The designers avoided cut corners on map design and the texturing, 
 which looks uniform and believable. There are some sections that are HUGE and make the player feels 
 like they're truly trapped in a real Imperial facility.
  
  Varied Weapons: In addition to obtaining Kyle's light saber early in the adventure, there are many 
 other weapons: imperial blasters, sniping blasters, wookie bowcasters, rocket launchers, flak cannons, 
 heavy repeaters, electric disruptors. There are explosives such as laser trip mines, thermal detonators, 
 remote detonation mines. It's possible to ride AT-ST's, and use enemy turrets as well. Some weapons 
 are mediocre, but there are enough to keep things fresh. There are also secondary items that work 
 as weapons: training droids, portable sentry guns. Non-lethal items include bacta tanks, night 
 vision goggles and binoculars.
  
  Great Voice Acting: Sounds convincing without being cheesy at all. Dessan sounds cool. No spoilers, 
 but some surprise characters make appearances.
  
  Simplified Force Powers: The players switches between different powers and another button activates 
 the "equipped" power. The different activated powers include force push, force pull, grip, lightning, 
 mind trick, speed and heal. The other powers that are always active are force jump and light saber 
 throws. Each ability gets stronger as the game progresses up by levels. For example level 1 healing 
 requires Kyle to stand still and is slow. At level 3, its faster and can be used while moving.
 
  
  Informative Menu: There is a menu to pull up mission objectives, explain force powers and briefly 
 describe items in Kyle's inventory.
  
  === BAD ================================================
  
  Unclear objectives: Even with the 
 menu which explains the current objectives, they can sometimes be confusing and at times players 
 might be finding themselves wondering what to do next.
  
  Light saber Battles seem random: The sword fights (against other light saber enemies) are cool 
 looking, but I was unable to figure out how to really fight properly with the sword. Usually I 
 swung around, when I landed a few hits, I save and repeat until done.
  
  Unclear Buttons / Interfaces: It may take away from the realism but it would have been helpful 
 if panels and items that can be interacted with would glow or highlight when Kyle approached them. 
 The panels in this game look like normal textures and it can be difficult to spot them amongst 
 complex computer terminals and wall computer textures. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2008 5:56 am PT
Review:  I was a big fan of the Dark Forces series and I just knew that Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast was 
 gonna be a GREAT game from the get go. Typcially, it seemed very hard to emcompass the great force 
 abilities into a FPS and do it in a way that not only fit with the story, but also with the gameplay 
 itself. Jedi Knight II did such a great job at both, you actually FEEL the force of your character 
 as you play and your force powers progess and get stronger. Just simply shooting force lightning 
 at multiple stormtroopers or even using Vader's force choke to lift stormtroopers off the ground 
 and even crash them into other stormies or walls or even drop them off cliffs!! It was just amazing 
 and something you rarely find in FPS games even today. The force choke was even accompanied by 
 the classic "choking" and bone cracking sound that just made it even more delightful! Lightsaber 
 comat was great fun in itself too and another aspect that's really hard to get right. 
  
  The best way to fully describe this game is simple: Take whatever you wanted in a jedi based FPS 
 and you pretty much have this game. The gameplay plays really smooth with little to no glitches 
 or bugs. The story is quite good and well acted/voiced. The sound of course is classic as with 
 any LA game. All in all, a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcana_Dei
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 12:45 am PT
Review:  This is the first video game that i every truly wanted to play. I was not disappointed by this 
 game at all! I loved running around and just throwing my lightsaber, shooting force lighting out 
 of my finger tips, and doing the force choke and then throwing the aggros. This game was insanely 
 groundbreaking at the time it was released. At least I thought so. My favorite part, though it 
 got annoying after awhile, was the whole matrix camera "bullet time" effect when you did the sweet 
 aerials over the aggro and them slicing off a limb! I also loved the in game modding and making 
 it so that the slightest touch of the lightsaber cuts anything into chunks of meat. I loved the 
 replay value of this game as well! Going back to the first levels with all you force powers was 
 just plain fun! I enjoyed the story line too. I also enjoyed the storyline of the game, it made 
 me want to go get the earlier jedi knight games and read the books on kyle katan. All in all, this 
 game was like the first kiss with a girl, that you'll never forget... slobbery. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avand963
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  This game wowed me from the very beginning. Its controls were much improved since JK I. The only 
 think i didnt really like was that you dont get your light saber untill about 40% of the way through 
 the game. The force system works alot like a rpg in the way that you lvl up your skills and gain 
 new ones as the game progresses. One think i learned as i went through the game is to save often. 
 The lightsaber battles are very unpredictable. The graphics are also amazing, it really gives you 
 the sence of being there, the only problem with the environment is that they are very linear so 
 theres not much exploring to do. The lightsaber handling is much improve since jk I and even from 
 the beginning the lightsaber can block almost all incomming fire. I also liked that the lightsaber 
 could not block all types of shots, for example the disruptor, this added a nice element of change 
 to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chandu83
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Jedi Outcast is a sequel to Dark Forces II. You reassume the role of Kyle Katarn, the mercenary 
 working for the New Republic.
  
  Briefly, the story goes like this, Kyle and Jan Ors go on a mission to investigate an abandoned 
 Imperial outpost on Kejim, but it turns out that the outpost is not abandoned, and they discover 
 an operation involving lightsaber crystals. Two dark Jedi known as Desann and Tavion are behind 
 the operation. The story then starts to unfold and will eventually lead to Kyle travelling to the 
 Valley of the Jedi to regain his force powers to defeat the dark Jedi.
  
  Raven, who developed the popular shooter Soldier of Fortune, have been given the task of creating 
 this game, and they did a great job.
  
  The game, you will notice, is divided into two parts. In the first part, Kyle Katarn is a mercenary, 
 who has relinquished his force powers, and therefore uses projectile weapons to attack enemies 
 and it is played in the first person mode. The second part begins when Kyle returns to the Valley 
 of the Jedi to regain his force powers to fight the dark Jedi and gets his lightsaber; from then 
 on, the game is played in third person mode whenever the lightsaber is used.
  
  Although the focus of the game is on the lightsaber combat and the use of the Force powers, both 
 parts of the game were equally good. I am happy to say that I am not disappointed with either of 
 those.
  
  Once you attain the Force powers, you have the ability to control the minds of some of the weaker 
 enemies, the force pull and push, force grip, force lightening, force jump and the ability to slow 
 time. As you keep going further into the game, the strength of your force powers increases as well, 
 and you will eventually turn into a master Jedi who can kill a number of storm troopers in swift 
 motion using the force pull or the push.
  
  I thought the Force powers work brilliantly. It was a lot of fun to use the powers against a group 
 of storm troopers who do not stand a semblance of chance against you. The lightsaber can deflect 
 blaster fire, just like in the movies.
  
  However, it is not going to be easy against some of the tougher enemies who use the Force as well. 
 It takes some doing to defeat those enemies, and you will discover that even as a Jedi, you are 
 not invincible warrior; so there is a lot of balance in the combat.
  
  The game is not all about using guns, lightsaber, or the Force powers. There are plenty of puzzles 
 to solve as well, sometimes they can be quite difficult, and that provides a bit of a break from 
 the combat. Some may like it and others may not. I have played many puzzle-based games over the 
 years and I did not have any problem with that. It was a welcome change for me.
  
  The atmosphere is beautiful and you will have a definite sense of dj vu if you have seen the 
 movies. The game uses a heavily modified Quake 3 engine with double polygon count, and it shows. 
 It looks fantastic. All the cities, jungles, Jedi temples etc. are very well created and retain 
 the feel of Star Wars.
  
  You cannot mention a Star Wars game without taking about the audio. I thought the audio in this 
 game was top notch. The soundtrack from the movies is used througout and the voice acting is excellent. 
 The sound along with the visuals capture the Star Wars universe and the fans are going to love 
 it. I know I did.
  
  If some of the flaws of the game have to mentioned, it must the complete linear gameplay. You do 
 not have the ability to choose the powers that you want to upgrade or the path you intend to follow. 
 The game does this for you. This in a way hinders your experience a little bit. Although this game 
 has the makings of a very good RPG, those elements are not carried out.
  
  In spite of that little shortcoming, this remains one of the best games I have ever played. Given 
 the special appearances by Luke Skywalker and Lando Calrissian, I can safely say that the force 
 is strong with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast is a Star Wars game that takes place decades after the films. 
 It starts out as Kyle Katarn and Jan Ors flying in the Raven's Claw on their mission to Kejim to 
 find some mysterious crystals that somehow give off Force Energy to a certain holder. Kyle and 
 Jan go through the post and gets the crystals, but they're being spyed on by Admiral Galak Fyarr. 
 They give the crystal to Mon Mothma for more information. Apparently, Kyle and Jan are sent on 
 a mission to a mining facility. They freed some prisioners, but Kyle and Jan meet up with a Dark 
 Jedi named Desann and a Sith Apprentice named Tavion. Kyle gets beat up terribly by Desann and 
 orders Tavion to kill Jan. It was a success... or was it? So, Kyle goes back to the Valley of the 
 Jedi to get some force power back, but little does he know that Desann and Tavion are following 
 him there. Kyle goes back to Yavin IV to ask Luke Skywalker for his Lightsaber back, but Kyle had 
 to go do a training course before he got it back. As he hets it back, Luke gave him a mission to 
 find Reelo Baruk.
  
  What I liked about this game is that the Jedi vs. Sith battles are intense. Great FPS controls. 
 Great Star Wars story. Great graphics. Fun with dark force powers.
  
  What I didn't like about this game is that duels can be very hard. 
  
  Overall, Jedi Knight 
 II is a great Star Wars experience. Especially when you get to play with dark force powers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: motti2thesecond
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2008 7:48 pm PT
Review:  While it may not be as free and open-ended as its sequel, Jedi Academy, Jedi Outcast is still a 
 very good game, being a lot more challenging with better sith and also the fact that the first 
 six levels are without force powers or a lightsaber. 
  
  The graphics are fairly decent and you can see details like streaks of grey in The protagonist, 
 Kyle Katarn's, hair but sometimes there will be a slow frame rate if there are multiple npc's in 
 one room, resulting in all the character's stuttering and going into slow-mo until you kill some. 
 
  
  The loading times aren't too long, so you won't be waiting a really long time in between levels 
 but you won't be instantly sent through loading screens either. But during the loading screens 
 you can always compare your level stats while you're waiting.
  
  The great thing about the game is the storyline. You begin as a mercenary (Kyle Katarn) and play 
 the first six levels with only guns and a stun baton investigating some sick experiments being 
 done in an imperial base and a remote colony. You meet the villan, a dark jedi named Desaan, who 
 orders his apprentice, Tavion, to kill Kyle's co-pilot, Jan Ors. In anger Kyle seeks out the valley 
 of the Jedi (which featured in the last game) and his lightsaber. This leads Desaan to the valley 
 of the jedi and allows him to make an army of force users to destroy the jedi. So then Kyle, now 
 with force powers, has to track Desaan down and kill him. This takes him to places like Yavin IV, 
 Bespin and Nar Shadaa and he interacts with characters like Lando, Luke and C3-P0 from the star 
 wars movies. 
  
  The only major fault with the game is the slightly clunky controls with the lightsaber and lack 
 of specific moves apart from vertical slash and horizontal slash, which make lightsaber combat 
 just swinging at the enemy and hoping it hits them before they hit you, which makes it more challenging 
 than Academy.
  
  All in all though, this is a very good game, considering when it was made, that is easily recommendable 
 for anyone with a computer or even xbox and gamecube (although the xbox version is slightly annoying 
 in terms of switching weapons and force powers) . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostDEFENDER
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 10:26 pm PT
Review:  I got this game in sale for 10 bucks at CompUSA in '04, thinking that it would be yet another great 
 (or not-so-great; they're always really good or really bad, it seems.) Lucasarts game. Boy was 
 I surprised! It was all that and more! Let's start with the one player mode. It's challenging (Somewhat) 
 and it always has a new twist. The only downfall, (besides unlockables) is that it's easy to get 
 a bit lost. There are a few errors and glitches (in level one for example) , that keep you from 
 figuring out if your just missing something, or if there's a real problem. But fortunently, there 
 ARE a few, dare I say it; CHEATS! This is a really nice feature, as it allows you to just make 
 things a bit smoother, without ruining the gameplay. You can turn on dismemberment (always fun) , 
 God mode, Invisible mode, wireframe mode, and no-clip mode (allows you to shoot through walls. 
 You can find a few not in-game secret in doing this.) . You can even somewhat make you own levels 
 by loading a multiplayer map, and setting no-target on, and spawning stormtroopers squads in various 
 areas. Heck, you can even add a few rebel teamates to aid you. And why not a few jedi? And dark 
 jedi??? What?!? Luke Skywalker, too?!? Hmmmm.... I see.... The possibilities are endless. Well, 
 anyway, the story line is well done, and the cutscenes are quite nice (a bit like claymation if 
 you ask me.) . The AI is pretty high tech for 2002. You even get to see how the troopers act when 
 your not there (when invisible) . It shows how much work went into the making of this game. I won't 
 spoil it, but I'll tell you that the end is pretty rewarding. Over all, a great one player game. 
 Now let's move onto multiplayer mode. I'll tell you, most of the modes aren't used nowadays. You 
 won't find many servers with guns or detonators. Nor will you find many Team Free For All, Jedi 
 Master, or capture the Ysalamari (or however it's spelled.) There are a few Capture the Flag servers, 
 mostly at Yavin Temple. There are also a bunch of lightsaber Free For All's, and and a lot of no-force 
 lightsaber Free For All's. I don't know how all of this will have changed by the time you read 
 it, but it's been this way for at least 3 years. You should probably know that when you begin a 
 duel in multiplayer you need to bow before you begin. (I'm most definently not the one who started 
 this ritual.) It's also against taboo to attack an unarmed (lightsaber deactivated) opponent. There 
 are a few custom maps and skins that people made with modding programs. They can be a real pain 
 though. There are a few secret built in charactors, though. You can access these by opening the 
 consol by pressing ~ (Shift + `) and typing model MODEL. The secret models are: Morgan/ghost, jedi/J2, 
 Kyle/FPLS, Kyle FPLS2, Reborn/Fencer, Reborn/Boss, Reborn/Acrobat, and Imperial/Officer. Just though 
 I'd give you the tip. It's gotten a bit cheap because people just keep using the saber slamer (red 
 stance, forward, attack, then jump at the hight of the swing.) . Which is usually a one-hit-kill. 
 There are a ton of secrets/tricks, in multiplayer mode. I've been playing for 3 years, and I'm 
 still learing new things. Look for me in ~Saberology~ Server under the name; Spawn: Bridge Demon, 
 Stormblooper, or the Last of the Toasters. The multiplayer mode never gets old! All around, this 
 is a great game! Unfortunetly, this game was a fluke. The prequel stunk, and the sequel stinks. 
 But those don't relect this game, so it doen't matter. I hope you find this review helpful. This 
 game is a must buy!
  
  Alter 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Imask8r9999
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  This is probably my favorite Star Wars game I have ever played in my entire life!! The story is 
 about Kyle Katarn and as you know from the end of Jedi Knight I he left his Jedi way from fear 
 and haunt of the dark side. But in this game the his best friend Jan was killed by a dark jedi 
 knight and so that is what makes him decide to seek out his lightsaber and force abilitites. In 
 about the first six or seven you don't have your lightsaber but you have a E-11 blaster rifle (standard 
 stormtrooper weapon) and thats about it. the E-11 blaster is very accurate and not so powerfull 
 and you are put in weird mazes, but after those first six or seven missions the game takes a total 
 180 spin and you actually get you lightsaber and 4 force powers. As you progress in the game your 
 force powers increase in strength and you eventullay get more of them like for the light side you 
 get: force  mind trick. And for the dark side you get all the 
 light side powers and these ones: Force rage, drain, lightning, grip, I think thats about it. The picture 
 graphics are EXCELLENT!! The multiplayer is very awesome. You can play as charachters in the single 
 player game and also legendary characters such as Luke Skywalker and Lando Calrissian (actully 
 voiced by Billy Dee Williams himself) !! Overall this game is just Awesome and that is why I rate 
 it 10.0 perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G-Sampetas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 2:10 am PT
Review:  As in the two previous games in this series, Jedi Knight II casts you in the role of Kyle Katarn, 
 a gruff mercenary who lends his smuggling skills to the Rebellion during its uprising against the 
 Empire. Katarn has a storied past that has been well chronicled in the original Dark Forces and 
 its sequel Jedi Knight, and fans of the series will be glad to know that his moody manner and subtle 
 pessimism remain intact in Jedi Outcast. The force is strong in Katarn, and he's no slouch with 
 a lightsaber either, but after nearly falling to the dark side during the events of Jedi Knight, 
 he's chosen to shun his Jedi ways in order to return to his life as a smuggler and mercenary for 
 the Alliance. The game opens with Katarn and his trusty pilot, Jan Ors, on one such mission. They 
 receive an urgent call from Mon Mothma telling the pair to investigate a distress call from the 
 surface of a planet that was thought to be uninhabited. There, Katarn and Ors uncover a plot by 
 the remnant Imperial forces to create an army of dark warriors who are technologically infused 
 with the force. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiifan001
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Jedi Knight 2: Jedi Outcast takes place after Episode 6: Return of the Jedi. You are 
 a Jedi named Kyle Kataarn who gave up his ways of being a Jedi because he didn't want to turn to 
 the Dark Side. In the beginning he is sent on a quest to foil some plans that the Empire has in 
 store. These first few levels, however, you won't use a Lightsaber or your force powers. You'll 
 have an assault rifle, a charge beam weapon and a stun baton for close up combat. On the first 
 couple missions, you have a woman named Jan that helps you (She is not a Jedi) . As for these first 
 few levels, basically you'll be penetrating their bases and depleting Stromtroopers and Imperial 
 officers. What's nice about the shooting is you can invert 1st person and 3rd person point of view 
 with Kyle (and with wielding a lightsaber) After a while it gets a little repetitive. There are 
 also some rather lame puzzles.-
  --
  
  DONT GIVE UP. After the first few hours you'll meet up with Luke Skywalker and he'll give you a 
 test of learning your force powers and retrieving your lightsaber. Once you get your lightsaber, 
 this is when the game really turns around and gets good. There are nearly 2 dozen weapons to collect 
 throughout the game, some of which include a rocket launcher, wookie bowcaster, and thermal detonators. 
 However, there really isn't much need to go back to any of those weapons since you have force powers 
 and lightsaber.-
  - Force powers&gt; All the force powers you gain will actually increase and improve over time. 
 You'll have force lightning, heal, choke, jump, speed, mind trick (mind taunting by having enemies 
 attack each other) and a saber throw which is pretty effective. You are left with numerous ways 
 of defeating your enemies. Often times, you might think to yourself, Hmm... how should kill this 
 guy? -- Kyle is very skilled with his lightsaber. The controls on the game are most fantastic. 
 Jumping around and over enemies, wall running and backflips are easy and fun to use. The real talent 
 in the game is facing off against Shadow Troopers who are minions to the Dark Side. Often times 
 the lightsabers will crash together and held as to where you must try to throw off your opponent. 
 The Shadow Troopers defend themselves overall pretty well and are rather challenging to take down. 
 Sometimes you'll fight against 2 at the same time which is a real blast. --
  -
  - Each time you start a new level the game will automatically save for you. You are also free to 
 manually save. Let me tell you that without manual save, this game would be extremely difficult 
 and frustrating to many. It's already challenging enough the way it is. There are 4 levels of difficulty 
 to play: Padawan, Jedi, Jedi Knight, and Jedi Master. (I played Jedi mode.) Odds are you're bound 
 to play a higher level of difficulty after beating it the first time through. The single player 
 campaign alone takes about 30-35 hours mainly because there are some hard to see areas in the game 
 where they're commonly overlooked. Often times I had to use a guide to figure out where to go next 
 when it happens to be in that room and yet somehow missed it after looking for 10 minutes. It's 
 crazy. --
  -- As for graphics, this game really has some great graphics. tThe Strom Troopers have glowing 
 white armor that really looks effective and you'll see many textures throughout the game. The character 
 animation is really good. Sound- John Williams music can't be wrong. The clashing of the lightsabers, 
 the water effects, and all the different explosions and weapon fire sound excellent. There's also 
 online multiplayer available for up to 16 people. I haven't played it yet, but I heard it was addicting 
 and very good like the single player campaign. I look forward to playing it eventually.
  
  Overall, if you like Star Wars and first person shooters, look no furhter. This is the game to 
 own. It's one of the best experiences of Star Wars gaming you'll ever have. I strongly recommend 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BackInTheSaddle
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Throughout video game history there have been several games released trying to capitalize on the 
 Star Wars universe. Many of these games have either been rushed or just severely lacked in quality. 
 However, every once in a while a Star Wars game is released that stands out above the rest and 
 gives a genuinely good gaming experience. Jedi Knight 2: Jedi Outcast is one of those games. It's 
 the product of great production values and satisfying gameplay. It utilizes its Star Wars license 
 very well and gives you an interesting story coupled with some amazing shooting and lightsaber 
 combat.
  
  Some knowledge beforehand of the Star Wars universe is required before playing Jedi Outcast or 
 you'll be lost on the story. It revolves around Kyle Katarn (the character you'll be playing as) , 
 a mercenary and former Jedi Knight who lends his skills to the New Republic in their ever going 
 quest to rid the galaxy of the evil Imperial Remnant, a now crippled empire which still has the 
 goal of seizing control of the galaxy. Kyle and his partner, Jan Ors, are sent in the beginning 
 of the game to the planet of Kejim to investigate what was thought as a long defunct Imperial Outpost. 
 Things, of course, prove otherwise and you start the game in an all out blaster rifle shootout 
 with imperial soldiers (stormtroopers) .
  
  The first portion of Jedi Outcast plays out like an average FPS (first person shooter) with some 
 fun, but repetitive, shooting gameplay. There are some puzzles here and there and a small arsenal 
 of weapons at your disposal, but nothing to distinguish it from any other FPS you've probably already 
 played. This first part can be seen as either a strength or a weakness as it may provide for you 
 a good lead up towards the bulk of the game or may hinder your overall experience. This, however, 
 changes after the first few hours of gameplay where it evolves into a more third person oriented 
 action adventure where you wield a famous object from the Star Wars universe, the lightsaber. Here 
 the game presents itself in a much more distinguishable way by providing deep and highly satisfying 
 lightsaber combat. Force powers from the game's Jedi mythos are also included and are acquired 
 and strengthened throughout the game. These force powers are abilities that allow you to do things 
 such as jump higher or push and pull objects (or people) without actually physically coming in 
 contact with these objects.
  
  Level design, while rather linear in places, is done very well. The levels feel open and grand 
 like your really standing in a city square or a planet colony on a far off world. Same goes for 
 Jedi Outcast's graphical presentation which holds up nicely even today. Character models and other 
 textures are starting to show their age, but still look presentable and varied while in the game's 
 cinematic cut-scenes or not. The effects such as blaster fire and explosions look appropriate and 
 as you would expect. Frame rate is great even on older PCs (expected given the game's release date) .
 
  
  The sound effects and music of Jedi Outcast are the same as the trilogy of films on which the game 
 was based on. The musical score is the same as always and while giving you the Star Wars feel, 
 gets a bit tiring after some time. A more original score, such as the one featured in Knights of 
 The Old Republic (another game set within the Star Wars universe) , would have been better and put 
 the game over the top in the musical department. The sound effects, however, still work and are 
 at home within the game. From blaster fire to the sound of droids scouring about, the sound effects 
 are wonderful and very nostalgic for those who have seen the original Star Wars films.
  
  Overall, Jedi Knight 2: Jedi Outcast is a godsend in terms of games within the Star Wars franchise. 
 It combines excellent gameplay with an interesting story to provide a rich gaming experience. The 
 game has also received a level of polish and refinement by its developers which push it over the 
 edge of just being a great game. The lightsaber combat and force powers stand out as being defining 
 and integral to the overall experience. Many of the great aspects of this game have not been mentioned 
 in this review, but it's more important to see what it is as a whole. Jedi Outcast is simply a 
 game that should not be overlooked by any fans of the Star Wars series or by anyone who enjoys 
 a good shooter or action adventure game, it's well worth the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogomesaki
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Get-this-game. great plot and ll but what truly amazes me is the action. youd think that chopping 
 up mindless stormtroopers, or blasting street thugs withthe force might get old. well this game 
 gives you enough stuff to work with so that your till finding coler ways to fight to the last few 
 seconds of the game. now, the average gamer would say that the game ends when the credits roll. 
 yes the plot is over, but theres something else you can do. i completely discouage cheating. exept 
 in this particular game. go to gamewinners. com there is an amazing number of codes there. you can 
 d virtually anything to this game with them, so much so that you feel like a programmer. you can 
 create a legion of stormtroopers to fight, r make yourself invinsible to help with killing them 
 all. you might want to fight 40 dark jedi at once, or god forbid spawn 100 r2d2s... just take a 
 look at everything you can do. you'll be amazed. dont forget to play through the real game though! 
 the honest voice nside yor head -Drew 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreenNinjaN
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Being an avid fan of Dark Forces 2: Jedi Knight when I first saw the screens for this game I about 
 flipped my script. I couldn't believe that they could make a game that looked that good. After 
 it came out I was not dissapointed. The gameplay is flawless. It's action packed, involving, and 
 intense. The major problem some people may have is all of the gotcha deaths. Tripping mines, getting 
 sniped by a Rodian from litteraly the other side of the level. And getting thermal detonators thrown 
 on your head by a Gran only adds to the grandure of actually beating the game. The lightsaber combat 
 is by far the reason to own this game. It's the best example of real time saber fighting available, 
 on any platform. It even beats Battlefront 2 in both shotting and saber fighting. The story is 
 of course fabulous the only thing I missed was the live acting in the cutscenes that we see in 
 the first two Dark Forces games. The other thing that makes this game great is the capabilities 
 in the MOD department. If you trounce over to www. massassi. net you'll find a plethera of add on's. 
 Extra levels, new skins for multiplayer and if you know how to do it single player as well. This 
 is one of the greatest games to ever grace the PC. I recomend it highly to any one looking for 
 a great Star Wars shooter, or even just a great Star Wars adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A1B2C3CAL
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2007 5:49 am PT
Review:  Jedi Knight 2 takes place a few years after the events of Jedi Knight, which itself took place 
 a few years after Return of the Jedi. The New Republic is gradually winning its long war against 
 the Empire, but even though the Emperor and Darth Vader are becoming distant memories, Dark Jedi 
 still have a habit of popping up here and there. Kyle Katarn, the hero of Jedi Knight, is back, 
 but without a lightsabre or the Force, having decided to return to ordinary life. But after a routine 
 investigatory mission to a distant planet reveals a new plot against the Republic, Katarn is forced 
 to relearn the Force and how to use his lightsabre. A Dark Jedi is using a rare mineral to create 
 clones with the power of the Force, the Reborn as the game calls them. Katarn must battle these 
 Reborn, along with hordes of stormtroopers and other menaces, in order to get to the bottom of 
 the conspiracy. Along the way, Katarn gets help from Star Wars characters like Lando Calrissian 
 and, in a particularly exciting battle sequence, Luke Skywalker himself. The game looks nice: the 
 character models are detailed and feature lots of familiar aliens, the architecture re-creates 
 the Star Wars universe meticulously, and lightsabre combat is a joy to behold. More about the lightsabre 
 in a minute. The game also plays well, apart from some tedium in the first two levels before Katarn 
 relearns his Jedi ways. The controls are responsive and fluid at once, and the interface is straightforward 
 and easy to use. Expect to be using Force powers quite a lot later in the game in order to accomplish 
 nearly every task. Some of the puzzles fall into the category of the absurd, as Katarn has to go 
 to extreme lengths to get some result that logically should have been much easier. For example, 
 at one point Katarn needs to send a message from an Imperial transmitter. To set the frequency, 
 he has to Force jump between boxes suspended in midair above a bottomless pit, which extends gameplay 
 but makes no sense. I pity the poor stormtrooper whose everyday task it is to scramble around above 
 a yawning abyss to reset the base's radio! As Katarn's Force powers gain in potency, the player 
 can rely less and less on conventional weapons, and more on the Force and the lightsabre. In comparison 
 with Jedi Knight, Jedi Knight 2's lightsabre blocking is much more generous to the player, as now 
 Katarn can deflect nearly any projectile. Using only the lightsabre and Force speed, Katarn can 
 enter a giant hangar filled with stormtroopers and a handful of the Reborn, and hold his own. The 
 Reborn excel at blocking moves with their lightsabres, so Katarn needs to use various combos at 
 his disposal. Fun with the lightsabre continues into the multiplayer component of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilchinagirl
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 4:35 am PT
Review:  Whilst there are some Star Wars games out there which leave alot to be desired, for me, JK2: JO 
 was a wicked experience!!! The gameplay and overall missions were really intresting and fun. The 
 game made full use of all the Force powers and weapons. Also, there are alot of cheats which can 
 be used in this game to do trivial stuff like turn your saber colour red- where this may not seem 
 like much, it actually really makes you feel more evil, which is a plus!!!
  
  The graphics and basic layouts are good... e. g. the Bespin streets and Jedi Academy are lifelike... 
 and its fun to blow up R2D2 if the evil urge takes over you muhahaha &gt;&lt;
  
  However, if like me, you perhaps take longer than usual to complete certain levels, you will tend 
 to get bored.... but thats what the cheats are for!!! You can even drive your own AT-ST!!! Killing 
 stormtroopers also relieves stress, so I would recommend that too...
  
  This game is very enjoyable, and you will find yourself playing it over and over... if only you 
 could kill Luke Skywalker though.... but they make him too powerful : (
  
  Overall... go, buy, enjoy XP 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lebbin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  This game has problems. From walking to finding out where to go is confusing and sometimes frustrating. 
 Saving is kinda dumb too. Everything else is fun, though. Slicing dudes up. Shooting dudes. Using 
 your force powers on dudes. All very fun. It is not realistic because sometimes if you shoot someone, 
 they fly back 10 feet. It's funny and cool, but not realistic. But the slow-mo death sequences 
 are cool when you die. The chance to play the game in both first-person and third-person is very 
 cool. Prepare to have patience, though, with the frustrating parts. Overall, however, this is a 
 very fun shooter/hack-n-slash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monco59
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 15, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  Ever since the release of Dark Forces in 1994, Star Wars first-person shooter fans have had a game 
 to call their own. In 1997 they got Star Wars Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II. Now, 5 years after Dark 
 Forces II, they have a new game to worship and revere. For Jedi Outcast, despite its slow start, 
 is not just one of the best Star Wars shooters, but one of the best shooters period, in a long 
 time.
  
  The story is basic SW fare, with a cast out and disgruntled ex-Jedi trying to perfect a Force adept 
 soldier and bring the galaxy to its knees. Enter the dynamic duo of Kyle Katarn and Jan Ors, planet-hopping 
 in a mad dash to save not only themselves but the entire New Republic. Like I said, its all pretty 
 standard stuff, but its solid nonetheless. Jedi Outcast starts off relatively slow, at first presenting 
 itself as a by-the-numbers shooter set in the Star Wars universe. Youve got your basic arsenal 
 of blasters, repeaters and Wookie bowcasters. The level design is satisfactory, although at times 
 youll be driven nuts by the maze-like layout or nonsensical puzzles that too often rely on seemingly 
 nonexistent buttons or pathways. But once you get a hold of your lightsaber and get to sample some 
 Force powers, the game takes on a whole new meaning. Its immense fun just to run down corridors 
 and slice and dice Stormtroopers at will (for those of you like me, who couldnt for the life of 
 them find out the code to enable FULL dismemberment, it is as follows: bring up your console, type 
 in helpusobi 1, followed by g_dismemberment 3 and finish it off with g_saberrealisticcombat 3 and 
 youll be knocking off limbs and severing heads in no time!) . After you get your trusty saber, 
 youll rarely if ever resort to conventional weapons for the remainder of the game. I dont know 
 whether that means the conventional weapons suck or the lightsaber kicks ass, but in the end its 
 all about having fun.
  
  Turning out to be even more fun is the multiplayer portion. For someone as dedicated to singpleplayer 
 as yours truly, its a marvel how quickly and deeply I fell in love with Outcasts multiplayer. 
 Its all pretty basic, but getting to duel with lightsabers against a dozen other Jedis over the 
 internet is truly a joy to behold. What makes it even better is that the community has fully endorsed 
 its own set of rules, such as holstering your saber and bowing before each bout.
  
  Graphically Jedi Outcast is no slouch, with detailed levels and textures, good-looking models and 
 terrific special effects, like rain drops evaporating as they hit your lightsaber. The game also 
 manages to hold a steady framerate and its not a big system hog. Also commendable is the animation. 
 Especially during lightsaber fights the action looks fluid and effortless, adding to the atmosphere 
 of Star Wars. The only time I found some real faults with the engine was during cutscenes. Close-ups 
 reveal some shoddy facial work and somehow the animation turns all jerky and robotic. Still, youll 
 be hard pressed to find any real problems with the game. Like in all SW games, the sound world 
 consists of the all-too-familiar John Williams score, redundant blaster sounds and nostalgic humming 
 and whizzing of lightsabers. Still, Raven was smart enough to add some truly magnificent original 
 music pieces, as well as hire a well-rounded and mostly excellent cast of voice actors. Even Billy 
 Dee Williams found his way into the game!
  
  Whilst Star Wars shooters are a dime a dozen, none stands prouder than Jedi Outcast. Raven has 
 crafted such a fine package where all the pieces come together to create a truly memorable game 
 that youll want to come back to even years after release. While it isnt perfect, what with the 
 slow start, rather bland weapon selection and annoying puzzles and confounding level design, Jedi 
 Outcast gets enough things right to heavily outweigh the things that went wrong. And after youve 
 gone through the great singpleplayer, an even better experience awaits you on the multiplayer side. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frantic190
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 31, 2007 10:39 pm PT
Review:  Except for a few missteps with level design and puzzles, this game is very engrossing. The main 
 story is about a jedi who has to rediscover his powers in order to deal with a dark jedi who is 
 trying to take over the galaxy (I think) . It's a rather cliche tale, but one that works well in 
 the Star Wars universe created in this game. Overall, this game is a very good buy. It's engrossing, 
 stable, and straightforward regarding controls. Some people will be put off by some of the more 
 tedious  sequences which are generously sprinkled throughout 
 the game. However, if you can get pass these annoyances, Jedi Outcast is a real treat for Star 
 Wars fans and others alike.
  
  The sound has no problems. ll weapons sound like you would expect, from the sonic whiz of laser 
 fire to the low humming of a lightsabre. Ambience noises are appropriate where they appear, and 
 the voice acting is good. The familiar movie music greatly contributes to the Star Wars feel of 
 the game.
  
  Now to the gameplay,
  I'll say this upfront -- if this game did not include such excellent lightsabre combat and force 
 powers, it would be a very average first-person shooter. However, since the jedi abilities and 
 signature weapon are showcased prominently throughout most of the game, Jedi Outcast stands above 
 most games I've played. Unlike the Star Wars movies (episodes I and II) , where the lightsabre battles 
 are great but there are not enough of them to save the movies from their mediocre scripts, Jedi 
 Outcast really lives up to its goal of making the player feel like a jedi. You'll have to get through 
 the first five levels of the game without your sabre or the force powers. However, levels 6-24 
 are all about mastering the force and elegantly dismembering your opponents with some truly gorgeous 
 swordplay. I found this one fairly easy to learn. There are a good variety of weapons, from laser 
 rifles to bombs. Nonetheless, you will probably be using the lightsabre most of the time, since 
 it is so versatile. The sword fights look very authentic and true to the Star Wars films. You can 
 switch between stances (strong, medium, or fast) , deflect laser fire, throw your sabre, and use 
 it in conjunction with force powers (like force grip and force push) . Even though you will probably 
 find yourself just rapidly clicking the mouse and various keyboard bottons hoping that you can 
 out-fence other jedi, the sabre fighting never looks awkward or mechanical, since the game finesses 
 the motion of the lightsabre to make attacks look elegantly lethal. I didn't intend to go on for 
 so long about just the lightsabre aspect of the game, but I found this part to be very well implemented 
 and entertaining all the way to the end. The force powers are also well done, but you'll probably 
 find yourself using only a few of the 8 available on a regular basis. My favorites were force heal 
 and force grip, but there are others like force speed, jump, pull, push, lightning, and mind trick. 
 In addition to the lightsabres and force powers, the game includes a host of friendly and hostile 
 individuals and creatures, including hordes of stormtroopers, a few species of aliens, a few dozen 
 dark jedi (the best opponents) , and a few familiar faces like Luke Skywalker and Lando Calrissian. 
 Generally well-done cut-scenes help advance the plot between levels. Level design is good overall, 
 but this game includes more than its fair share of places where you can get stuck looking for passages, 
 switches, keys, and other things. There are a lot of jumping sequences, several of which are tough. 
 I only had to use a walkthrough guide once to find a passageway in one of the early levels. However, 
 in 44 hours of total gameplay, I spent at least 5 hours trying to figure out where various passages, 
 doors, and switches were. This will be frustrating to many gamers and is the main reason I can't 
 give this game 10. Technically, the game is very stable, and I didn't experience a single crash 
 or bug (which seems rare for games nowadays) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firefox10210
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 30, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  Jedi Outcast is the sequel to Dark Forces II: Jedi Knight. And, of course, Jedi Outcast completely 
 outshines its predecessor in style. In Jedi Outcast you take the role of Kyle Katarn, The Jedi 
 who defeated Jerek in the valley of the Jedi. After this event, Kyle gives up his Jedi finess to 
 join mercenarie Jan as a gunman. For the first few levels of the game, you use only guns, with 
 no force powers, and take out storm troopers, Walkers, and alot of other enemies that solely are 
 fairly a pushover. However, After Jan is kidnapped by the dark jedi Desann, who easily defeats 
 you and your pathetic array of guns, you swear to get her back and travel to the jedi temple, to 
 once again retrieve your jedi powers. This is where the real fun begins. After completing various 
 to tasks to retrieve the force powers and to get you used to the new controls, you will recieve 
 the ultimate Star Wars logo, your lightsaber. With this you can bash through stormtroopers and 
 all other gun-wielding enemies. However, after recieving your lightsaber, Enemies with this weapon 
 will appear, and these enemies can turn out to come in numbers, which can be extremely difficult. 
 After you defeat Desann and retrieve Jan, the game ends, but there is still multiplayer for you 
 to dive into. The multiplayer is probably the sheer gold of this game, where you can join servers 
 to fight against other players, talk with them, and have duels, which is solo 1v1. You can choose 
 a skin from practically everyone in the game, customize the force powers you have, and your lighsaber. 
 There is also many different types of Multiplayer, from free for all to capture the flag. Overall, 
 Jedi Outcast is probably one of the best Star Wars games ever made, and definitely worth buying. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanGoomba
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 29, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Everyone complains about the beginning of this game, how boring and uninspired it is. I had no 
 problem with it. It makes sense given the plot, and the wait really makes it cool when you have 
 Jedi powers. So it does start out as a fairly basic Star Wars shooter, with you (Kyle) and your 
 wife? Jan blasting through various Imperial bases on rocky deserted planets. Then she is killed 
 by Desann, an evil Sith who looks like a T-Rex. In Kyle's quest for revenge, he regains his Jedi 
 powers. You finally get to test your new powers the first time in a bar on Nar Shadda, when an 
 entire bar full of people turns on you, and you slice through them like a knife through butter. 
 The lightsaber is an incredibly cool weapon to use, arms and hands go flying as you slice through 
 enemies... though i suggest using the easily found cheat that allows your lightsaber to literally 
 cut your enemies into tiny pieces, heads and limbs go everywhere. It feels more realistic. Just 
 as cutting thourugh blaster-armed enemies gets old, you face your first enemy Jedi on Bespin. The 
 result is an amazing twisting, turning battle that leaves a real sense of accomplishment when you 
 get through his defenses and kill him in a slow-motion camera angle. These fights are the best 
 part of the game, and become very frequent as time goes on, and only get better once you perfect 
 your Jedi powers such as Jedi lighting, and force grip (which you can use to pick up enemies and 
 drop them off cliffs! These fights are really amazing and the best Jedi fighting this side of the 
 actual movies. The graphics are ok, the effects are great but certain things like ships and rocks 
 look curiously unfinished, and/or extermely bland. But that's pretty minor. I loved this game and 
 despite it's linear story have gone back to play it many times, I can't recommend any Star Wars 
 game more highly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nzilla
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 13, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  I love this game. It gives you what every star wars fan in history wants, a light-saber and force 
 powers. This game is just plain fun to play. You can run straight up walls, or run across those 
 walls if you feel like it. Do all sorts of high acrobatic jumps and come down slamming your light-saber 
 into your enemies. You can do all sorts of awesome light-saber moves, many of which chops your 
 opponent into little bits. If you want to go hard core on them you can put in a cheat code that 
 allows you to cut up more than just the limbs. You can dissect their torso or send their head flying 
 off. It's really very fun. Did I mention you could run on walls?
  Jedi Knight 2 starts out slowly, putting you in a more FPS shooter kind of game. The entire first 
 level is dedicated to you wiping out stormtroopers with your blaster. This is in itself fun, but 
 by the time you get your light-saber, you're done shooting people. Once you're no longer force 
 challenged, a whole new game opens up. You switch from first person with a gun to third person 
 over the shoulder with the light-saber. The force allows you to block incoming blaster shots, dodge 
 disruptor bolts, and basically be a total hard core Jedi. You can push people onto ledges or pull 
 their weapons away from them and watch them scramble to their feet. Use lightning to fry massive 
 groups of enemies, or the Vader force choke to punish them. Personally, I enjoyed using the force 
 choke to pick them up and then slamming them against the wall, killing them. Or dropping them off 
 a tall place. I have a sneaking suspicion that I may be drawn to the dark side... Hmmmm... It is 
 tempting.
  Perhaps the best part of this game is the light-saber battles with other dark Jedi. These are intense 
 and feature light-saber on light-saber combat and are easily the best parts of this game. Dueling 
 1 on 1 or having to fight 4 on 1, it's a blast.
  With an appearance from Master Skywalker and being able to carve your way through all sorts of 
 enemies and even drive a few ATST's, this game is the bomb. If you haven't played it yet you must 
 not like fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dylanisbored
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 12, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  This game has great features such as swinging a lightsaber, killing dozens of clones and just a 
 great game. The first couple of levels are pretty straight forward but as you progress you have 
 to use your brain. It took me awhile to figure out a couple of levels but I found the way. The 
 games storyline was a little short to me. But that's why they make the levels hard to figure out. 
 You receive the lightsaber like right at the beginning and you go through a training level of learning 
 the force. It's pretty easy but it helps to know what buttons are the force. Overall this game 
 is for Star Wars fans or just a beginner of Star Wars. If you love to fight, jump around, hard 
 levels, and use the force then this game is for you! Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elim10286
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 24, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Kyle Katarn and Jan Ors share the usual banter over the former Imperial outpost world Kejim. Mon 
 Mothma's hologram shimmers before them with unsettling news about an intercepted transmission from 
 this world. It would seem its not so abandoned after all, which case in a point is proven upon 
 landing. A Lambda-class shuttle greets Kyle and Jan as they enter the surface perimeter of the 
 Kejim outpost. The surface detachment spots them and begins an attack, which is easily taken down. 
 The pair descend into the lower levels concealed beneath the surface. The garrison proves a temporary 
 bother, but Kyle and Jan easily dispatch them.
  
  A disturbing project is uncovered gradually as the game advances after departing Kejim. The project's 
 mastermind and overseer Admiral Galak Fyyar contacts his counterpart, a man called Desann. Desann 
 is another of those Sith Lords seeking to dominate through indisputable power and goes far on this 
 thanks to Kyle's actions early on.
  
  Kyle returns to his abandoned Jedi training after nearly being killed by Desann and after Jan is 
 'murdered' by Desann's apprentice, Tavion. The missions from Kejim to Artus Prime to Yavin IV to 
 Nar Shaada to Bespin and Cloud City unravels some of the mysteries of Desann's plans.
  
  Cloud City reveals the vanguard of Desann's force powered army. The Reborn who will a trying nuisance 
 in the levels to come as they are empowered through the crystals and the Valley of the Jedi. The 
 acoyltes are easily cut down, but those that follow prove more of a challenge especially the elites.
 
  
  Their Imperial counterparts prove to be typical as ever, but they are not as easily beaten or dealt 
 with as before. The escape from Artus was a challenge, but the insertion into the Doomgiver passes 
 the bar on that count. The enemies will try to alert security to your presence thus enabling your 
 capture and mission failure. Once aboard the Doomgiver, you will encounter its shipboard personnel 
 ranging from officers to stormtroopers to Reborn and the latest addition met back at Cairn, the 
 Shadow trooper, an armored version of the Reborn with the ability to cloak itself.
  
  The Valley is no longer the target, the Jedi Academy faces invasion...
  
  Kyle must rescue 
 Jan, save the Academy, and stop Desann and his army.
  
  Can you master the force and save your newfound Jedi comrades? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ULTIMA-Demon
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2007 11:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is technically the third installment in the series, if you count the original Dark Forces 
 (a Doom-like first person shooter) for the PC and PS1. You'll once again assume the role of Kyle 
 Katarn, a battle hardened mercenary working for the new republic. In the wake of the discovery 
 of the Valley of the Jedi, Kyle and his partner Jan Ors are assigned more missions from Mon Mothma 
 and the New Republic to investigate Remnant Imperial activities. It's not long before Kyle's past 
 catches up with him and you'll find yourself wielding a lightsaber and some really cool force powers, 
 much like the original Jedi Knight.
  Jedi Knight 2: Jedi Outcast's gameplay is probably some of the best of any FPS/Action-Adventure 
 game from it's time. You won't have your force powers or your lightsaber right off the bat though. 
 In fact, you'll have to slug your way the game's first few levels with just your guns and your 
 wits to solve puzzles, crack imperial code, and fight wave after wave of stormtroopers and other 
 imperial uglies. After a couple of hours and a disturbing discovery or two, you'll be on your way 
 to Jedi status once again. Some of the games puzzles can be quite challenging and not always obvious 
 right off the bat. This offers a great deal of challenge to the game, but at times it can be very 
 frustrating. The real gem of the gameplay is the lightsaber combat. It's as simple as clicking 
 the left mouse button while holding down the direction you want to swing it. It works so seamlessly 
 and you'll often find yourself reveling in your hard earned victories over other saber-wielding 
 foes.
  Graphically, the game looks fantastic. Although some of the enviroments are massive, they aren't 
 quite as detailed as one would expect. There do seem to be a few rare graphical glitches with the 
 textures on character models and shadows, but these don't occur often enough to be really noticable. 
 For instance, you may see a shadow along the wall across the room thinking it is an unexpecting 
 foe about to meet his make, but upon further investigation, you'll realize it was just your own... 
 no where near you or where you're standing. The lighting (aside from the player's shadow) as a 
 whole however, is great. Also, the lightsabers, both Kyle's and his foe's look amazing. There's 
 nothing more visually satisfying in this game than seeing a flurry of red and blue twirling about 
 the characters and then seeing one fall to the ground in a slow-motion death (and possibly with 
 a few less limbs if you choose to play with dismemberment on) . In some situations, you'll even 
 see rain hit your saber, flash and fizz right off. It's the small details such as this that make 
 Jedi Knight 2 such a feast for the eyes.
  As with the graphics, the sound is right on par. Most of the music is taken from the movies (conducted 
 by John Williams) and the voice acting is superb. You'll even see some cameos by characters from 
 the movies. Namely Luke Skywalker and Lando Calrission (who is voiced in-game by Billy Dee-Williams 
 himself) . The ambience of the game really shows off the skill of the foley artists. From the hum 
 of an idle lightsaber, to the clash and stormtoopers piling up as you cut them to the ground. Everything 
 in the game sounds authentic.
  Once the single player portion is completed, you can always try a harder dificulty, or jump into 
 the game's addictive multiplayer. Multiplayer has your standard modes such as deathmatch, capture 
 the flag and the like. Lightsabers and forcepowers are available right off the bat, so just like 
 in the single player mode, you'll often find yourself running around (saber in hand) looking for 
 a fight as opposed to gunning down your adversaries. Unless you come across a rocket launcher or 
 a sniper rifle, you won't have much of a practical use for your fire arms aside from a few exceptional 
 situations.
  Overall, Jedi Knight 2: Jedi Outcast should not be passed up. This game is great. Despite the first 
 few missions being... well, forceless, it more than makes up for it later on. Multiplayer will provide 
 some lasting value to the game long after you've beaten it. The single player campaign alone will 
 take the average player around 10-15 hours to complete (depending on the difficulty) the first 
 time through, and even if you can't find a game online for multiplayer, you can always set up a 
 game with bots and duke it out. At the price Jedi Knight 2 is at and for all the value you can 
 get from it, you shouldn't pass it up. The force is definately strong with this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rumian
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast is a must-buy video game for all remaining Star Wars fans 
 out there. It has everything a LucasArts Star Wars game SHOULD have. There is no better way to 
 improve the quality of Jedi Outcast.
  
  As another installment to the Jedi Knight saga, you start out as Kyle Katarn, (though it has been 
 a few years after he defeated Jarec at the Valley of the Jedi) as he fights alongside Jan Ors, 
 a mercenary worker. Both are investigating a small abandoned outpost on the planet Kejim, where 
 the Remnant lurk as part of a scheme to create a deadly operation. Both characters are mercenaries 
 in the beginning of the game, working for Mon Mothma. The process of how this game developed through 
 the plot was great, but a little cheesy for my taste. I wouldn't spoil it for other hardcore LucasArts 
 gamers reading this review... Anyway, Jan is soon kidnapped and this act inrages Kyle as he must 
 gain his Jedi ability and the power of the Force once again. There are two plots, basically: to 
 rescue Jan Ors and thwart the Remnant's covert operation of the Crotosis lightsaber mineral.
  
  JKII is a masterpiece. I don't think there is any other LA game out there better than this. 
 Fight alongside a mercenary counterpart, go through obstacles and conspiracies to thrash a covert 
 operations of the Remnant, meet friends and help each other out to escape deadly traps, and go 
 across the entire galaxy to stop the Remnant at all costs. The complexity of this game is very 
 easy to understand, and it seems the action will never end! I highly recommend Jedi Knight II: 
 Jedi Outcast. If you think this is the same as any other LucasArts game, then you're a nutcase. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhcpvisigoth
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 17, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  I think GS made a mistake when they gave this game a 9.0 on their scale. Sure, the game is good, 
 but not THAT good...
  
  The graphics are absolutely great, most outdoor scenes are stunning, and the indoor areas are amazing 
 and bewildering, even. But as far as gameplay goes, most of it involves finding keys and opening 
 doors. Gun fights aren't exciting, as even at higher difficulty levels, the enemy doesn't do much 
 except come up hard and in big numbers. I didn't see or feel much as far as enemy AI went. the 
 sadest part was the lightsaber fighting... they're few and too short. The last fight, with the 
 boss, was especially short. The lightsaber fighting wasn't as exciting as in Jedi Academy, possibly 
 because Jedi Outcast has neither dualsabers nor two-handed ones. The story of the game isn't that 
 great, either... the story feels very stereotyped, though I can't say why...
  
  Personally, the game doesn't deserve more than 8.6. I recommed this game only to die-hard Lucas 
 fans, but not to those wanting something new in an Action-RPG... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zedy_3000
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 9, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  In Jedi Outcast you once again take on the role of the likeable mercenary Kyle Katarn who starred 
 in Dark Forces, Jedi Knight and was part of Mysteries of the Sith's storyline. Due to the events 
 at the Sith temple on Dromuund Kaas in MotS Katarn has given up his Jedi Powers in fear of being 
 tempted by the dark side like he was on the dreary swamp world, so he has returned to his mercenary 
 ways and works as an agent for the New Republic. Eventually he will have to reconnect to the Force, 
 to stop a newly surfaced Dark Jedi.
  
  The gameplay in Jedi Outcast is fairly similar to the gameplay in Jedi Knight. Unlike Jedi Knight, 
 though; you cannot choose what Force powers you get, and when, as that is all decided at the beginning 
 of every mission. Also the weapons in Outcast are underpowered when compared to those found in 
 Dark Forces, and Jedi Knight. The guns seem very weak, and the lightsaber is extremely underpowered.
 
  
  The level design in the past Dark Forces games was solid and atmospheric; unfortunately Jedi Outcast 
 suffers from poor to borderline absurd level design. Most of the levels are fairly bland in design, 
 and quite frequently look quite similar. Granted I wasn't expecting eye candy like in, say, Unreal 
 when playing Outcast as the Dark Forces series was never about eye candy, but even 1995's Dark 
 Forces featured more varied and atmospheric levels than Outcast.
  
  Jedi Outcast uses the Quake III engine which was dated even at the time Outcast came out. Despite 
 this, the graphics were decent and characters were detailed, though nothing in the game stood out. 
 The graphics are good, but not great.
  
  The sound is as you would expect from a Star Wars game. There is all around decent voice acting, 
 and the game is filled with Star Wars sound effects and the memorable original trilogy score by 
 John Williams. Outcast also sees the return of interactive music that is quiet when you are exploring, 
 and picks up when you enter combat with enemies. The sound is great.
  
  Jedi Outcast is a solid successor to the previous two titles in the series, but it could have been 
 a lot better if Raven put more effort into the level design, and spent some more time balancing 
 the weapons. Regardless, it is a must play for Dark Forces\Jedi Knight, and Star Wars fans alike. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebirdboi06
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 13, 2007 10:25 pm PT
Review:  This is the Dark Forces series 3rd entry, despite the fact that it's missing from this game's title. 
 A FPS set in te Star Wars universe, you play as mercenary Kyle Katarn from the previous two games. 
 With the combination of shooting, lightsaber battles and force powers, this could be one of the 
 best FPSs out there and one of the best Star Wars games. The graphics of JK II are very nicely 
 done, and very rarely do I ever experience slow down, even on my budget computer when set on High 
 settings. Even at low settings, I had no issue understanding the environment or what kind of enemy 
 I was against.
  
  The sound is as one would expect from a Star Wars game, classic blaster fire, lightsaber hums galore 
 are in here. Every one of the sound effects is clear and crisp, and understandable. Even better 
 than that is the voice acting which is top-notch. The acting gives a scruffy personality to hero 
 Kyle Katarn, and a wise, Obi-Wan inspired personality to Luke Skywalker.
  
  The gameplay is top notch as well. You are Kyle Katarn, you and your pilot Jan Ors have been assigned 
 to check out a supposedly deserted planet named Kejim for Remnant activity by Mon Mothma. As the 
 story unfolds around a villain named Desann, you regain your force and lightsaber abilities from 
 the previous game. But not all at once and not at the start, the game has a predetermined ladder 
 of points where you gain force and lightsaber skill. About 6 levels into the game you start gaining 
 these and from there you are hooked. Simply becasue you now have abilities unlike that in many 
 shooters, high jumping, pushing and pulling enemies, melee attacking and tossing your saber out 
 like a boomerang.
  
  My biggest gripe is that there are no unlockables in the game. For some this may not be important, 
 but I'm personally intrigued by concept are and wanted to see some of it.
  
  The multi-player game features the standard far for FPS games, but also a FFA Holocron mode, which 
 is FFA but the force powers are strwen throughout the map in cubes that then circle you, showing 
 all what powers you have. There is also a duel mode which pits two in a one on one match in a small 
 map. The others are left to observe the combatants. The layout of the controls was nothing special, 
 although you may find yourself changing where your force powers are. The default is that they are 
 activated by the Function Keys or that you scroll through them and then press F to use.
  
  Over all the game is one of the easiest action games I can recommend. I think even those not all 
 for Star Wars can agree that it is a unique game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeek360
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 11, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Before ever playing this game, I had heard a lot about it. The fighting was supposed to be one 
 of a kind, and superior in every way to any other fighting game. I was skeptical, but couldn't 
 wait to give it a try. When I did finally get it, I right away started playing multi player... 
 I couldn't believe how good some of the people were at dueling (Involves 2 people fighting 1 on 
 1 using their light sabers) And decided that was the game mode for me... This was about 6-7 years 
 ago, and although I have stopped playing here and there to play other games, it is still by far 
 my favorite fighting game. And I am still learning new techniques and ways of fighting. Jedi Knight 
 II offers multiple game modes ranging from Capture the Flag to Jedi Master (Everyone in the server 
 is against the Jedi Master, once he dies, the player to pick up his lightsaber becomes the new 
 Jedi Master with all Force Powers maxed out) And depending on the server you play on the Force 
 will be enabled or disabled. While the Force is very fun to play with (Especially in single player) 
 A lot of cheap players use the same force power over and over and over, making a lot of players 
 choose force free servers over force servers. The single player aspect of the game's only flaw 
 is that it's too short... I mean that in the way that I could probably play it day in day out for 
 months as long as I had a fresh story line every time. The power you have, and the mass amounts 
 of storm troopers to use them it on is a Sith Lord's dream come true (In a way...) The only part 
 of the single player story that was a bit of a let down is the last boss... But I won't go into 
 that to make sure I don't spoil anything (Don't worry not a big let down) The only other thing 
 that should be noted is that because the game is very old, the 1.02 version (The version that virtually 
 all servers run) the multi player mode doesn't really work on dual processor PCs... A fix has been 
 made by someone on the internet but you could have trouble finding it... You patch the game to 
 1.03 or 1.04 but as I said, not many servers run it.
  
  This game goes in my top 3 favorite games of all time, and I suggest it to anyone looking for a 
 good challenge and both a great single player and multi player experience.
  
  Enjoy! And may the Force be with you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerX500
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 5, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  SWEDISH
  
  Det h&auml; r var mitt favorit spel i s&auml; kert ett och ett halvt &aring; r i rad f&ouml; r l&auml; nge 
 sedan. Det &auml; r ett underbart spel och jag gillar det fortfarande. Det h&auml; r spelet har enormt 
 mycket fusk och det kan vara kul ibland:-) Grafiken &auml; r ganska bra f&ouml; r att det finns s&aring; 
 mycket andra spel idag som har otroligt bra grafik men det var s&auml; kert en av det b&auml; sta 
 n&auml; r det kom. Spelk&auml; nslan &auml; r bra men man kan tr&ouml; ttna lite grand ibland men det 
 &auml; r &auml; nd&aring; en mycket bra spelk&auml; snla:-) det &auml; r ett M&Aring; STE f&ouml; r en 
 Star Wars &auml; lskare. Kom ih&aring; g att jag skriver det h&auml; r n&auml; r jag har tr&ouml; tnat 
 p&aring; spelet. F&ouml; rst&aring; r ni d&aring; om jag hade skrivit om det f&ouml; r tv&aring; &aring; r 
 sedan n&auml; r jag &Auml; LSKADE spelet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gollum92
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2007 6:02 pm PT
Review:  If u like Star Wars, u'll luv this game. u start with a gun (u get a lot of em) and then u get 
 a lightsaber and the force. thats when the fun begins. u can slice people in half, shove them off 
 ledges, or choke em. i spent a long time playing it casue of all the puzzles and then the multiplayer 
 is cool. u can play multiplayer offline, against comp controled bots. ist set after the movies 
 (somewhere around movie 7, if there would ever bee one) and there r a lot of cool creatures, as 
 well as lando, luke skywalker, and besbin city. some may want to note that although its rated by 
 esrb for only violence, it has some other stuff. see below:
  
  Year released: 2002
  ESRB rated: teen
  For: violence
  Our rating: teen
  For: violence, brief language
  Violence: 
 (heavy) well, like most FPS games, its all about fighting. You can shoot people; slice them (or 
 their hands) off with a lightsaber, push them off ledges, choke them, or simply yank the guns out 
 of your enemys hands and then slaughter them like animals if it appeases you. There is also a 
 cheat code that enables realistic combat. Using that, when an enemy is hit with a lightsaber, 
 his arms, legs, head, or torso will be sliced through. Most of the time you are fighting aliens, 
 but sometimes you will fight human officers or stormtroopers. However, there is no blood or gore. 
 Blood: (none)
  Gore: (none)
  Language: (brief) d**m is used several times, and comic swears like sithspit. Drugs: (none)
 
  Alcohol: (very brief) in one location you are fighting in a bar, and you order a sci-fi drink, 
 although you never drink it. There are also bottles and mugs on the tables around the building, 
 although you can not drink them. One other time, a drink is mentioned while two people are exchanging 
 information. Vulgarity: (none)
  Adult: (very brief) there is one Dark Jedi lady who is dressed rather skimpily. Later in the game 
 your character and a girl hug and kiss several times. Other: Im sure youve heard about The Force 
 debate. There is the force in the game, for you are a Jedi. You have you your own set of Force 
 powers, push, pull, choke, etc. which you can (and will need to) use throughout the game. Overall 
 offensive: 7.0 out of 10 (10 is worst) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denny33142
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 17, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  Definitly the best jedi action game, knights of the old republic has the story but this one has 
 the action! the lightsaber dueling is by far the best in this game. the graphics are amazing for 
 a game made in 2002 the graphics moved up a hole lot from its predecessor. trust me if your a star 
 wars fan you will LOVE this game, try out the demo trust me you will like it then go out and buy 
 the game (only $10 at gamestop)
  
  best in the series! awesome graphcs, awesome everything recommended to anybody
  
  the story 
 was also pretty good not the best but it will keep you in it good enough 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zalzargahoughan
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 3, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  This is the game, that I believe raised the bar for Star Wars games, which were mostly fairly poor 
 before this. And now, with the exception of Episode III, hasn't had a truly bad game for the better 
 part of three years.
  
  The story follows the sorta tragic hero Kyle Kartan, who at the end of the previous game, renounced 
 his Jediness, and now is a mercenary for the New Republic (aka Rebel Alliance ) . But the events 
 that will soon transpire will have him once again picking up his lightsaber, and saving the galaxy 
 from evil.
  
  It starts off as a rather routine shooter. You have a couple of guns, as well as your stunner and 
 thermal detonators. You go through the first five levels of the game with these basic weapons, 
 and a few puzzles thrown in for good measure. Then the next two levels basically act as training 
 levels on the basics of being a jedi. And then you spend the next fifteen or so as the kick-ass 
 jedi you've always dreamed of being. So, you ask, just what is it like to be a jedi in Jedi Outcast? 
 Simply amazing, due largely to the fact of just how perfectly lightsaber combat is done. You swing 
 your lightsaber by clicking the right mouse button, and the way in which you swing your lightsaber 
 is dependant on several different things. Mainly which direction youre moving, where your enemies 
 are in respect to you, and how you move the mouse. It all works extremely well and feels very flushed 
 out and fine tuned to be as perfect a lightsaber combat system as you could hope to have, and if 
 it weren't for a few AI problems and lack of punch from most of the other weapons in the game, 
 the gameplay would easily earn a 10 out of 10.
  
  One of the biggest complaints critics have had against Jedi Outcast is in it's slow start. As mentioned 
 above, you have to complete the first six levels before you even get to touch your lightsaber. 
 I, unlike most, think that this makes the game much better overall. While Raven's choice of making 
 you wait for and earn your lightsaber may make for a less than spectacular first impression, it 
 does give you much more satisfaction when you do finally get your lightsaber, and it makes it much 
 less monotonous, therefore I believe they made the right choice. However, I do believe they made 
 a serious mistake in not including some of the most powerful ranges weapons in the first few levels. 
 Since, once you get your lightsaber, you will rarely use a gun ever again.
  
  One of the problems with this game is that the guns don't pack enough punch. Even the shot-gun 
 feels rather week. And by now, we should just be able to assume that a head shot should be a one-shot-one-kill. 
 There are a few decent weapons, but aside from the sniper rifle you will rarely, if ever use them 
 once you pick up your lightsaber.
  
  Once you're done with the single player (Or maybe even before) you can try your skills at multiplayer. 
 There is a great variety to choose from, and it's great fun to clash sabers with another real person. 
 One great thing about the multiplayer though, is bots, which have great AI and can really help 
 if you want to practice before going up against real people, or if you want a larger game.
  
  Graphically this is a great looking game for the most part. But some graphical flaws and a 
 slighty old engine make them hardly impressive; though they did do a good job on most of the faces 
 and this game in no way looks bad.
  
  The sound in this game is amazing, sure you ca nit-pick at a few things, but the music and voice-acting 
 is top notch, and the sound effects are as good as they get. But assuming you were going to nit-pick, 
 you could complain about a few less than smooth transitions in music. But that's hardly worth noting.
 
  
  In conclusion, this is a remarkable game. It is even included in Lucas Arts' Star Wars - The Best 
 of PC collection, and it definitely deserves it. It has well designed levels and a good story, 
 as well as the best lightsaber combat system you're going to see, with the possible exception of 
 Jedi Academy. Even in todays world of gaming, Jedi Outcast is still a great game, that really 
 gets it right on what it should feel like to be a jedi! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SupaTrupa
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 29, 2006 9:40 pm PT
Review:  The LucasArts and Raven classic still shines on today's hardware and LCD monitors. The game, despite 
 some of the Star Wars cheese, is still an amazing accomplishment, playing out like an action movie 
 on a huge Hollywood budget (but better) .
  
  I come back to this game at least once a year, and still love it, still get a little stuck for 
 a few minues on a puzzle or two regardless, but that's all part of the sense of accomplishment 
 you get from this game. The adventure/shooter/tactical elements combined, really set it apart to 
 this day.
  
  Can't recommend this game more highly for those who haven't played it yet. The Star Wars: Best 
 Of PC DVD package is the best value out right now, including this game and several other modern 
 LA's games. Play any action game made by Raven and you'll enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adsds141
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 23, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast is a wonderful game that is the sequel of star wars jedi 
 knight mysteries of the sith. This game is truely a must have and consists of a genuine storyline. 
 Although the game does take strategy and patience it can mess up. whatever you do try not to cheat 
 and skip levels it will hurt you. especially if you want to take in the story line.
  the graphics are kinda cheesey but it is a older game. I loved this game but it is in a 5 game 
 series. if you want to start in the beggining play star wars dark forces. its the first game inthe 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 18, 2006 6:41 am PT
Review:  This one was a mixed bag for me. I loved it, but it's not my favorite in the series. If all you 
 want is deathmatch, you'll love it. If you want to get absorbed in a good story in a galaxy far 
 far away, don't bother.
  
  I love the earliest games in this series. The original Jedi Knight is awesome. It didn't have the 
 best combat engine. It was an awkward first stab at powers and sword fighting in a first person 
 game, but it rocked. Of course, I like FMV stuff cause I'm retarded that way. I just enjoyed the 
 dinky little story about this guy becoming a Jedi. It felt so fanboy Star Warsy for me.
  
  I didn't get that from this game. In the original, every world felt distinct. Even in Dark Forces, 
 I nerded out on each new level. I felt like I was really there. I enjoyed being in my favorite 
 places in the Star Wars universe.
  
  This game doesn't do that. Most levels just feel generic and bland. The story doesn't draw me in. 
 These don't feel like the characters I fell in love with in previous games. They are new, and I 
 don't like them as much.
  
  All the bad out of the way, the combat rocks. Multiplayer is tons of fun. The powers and dueling 
 have really been thought out. It's easy to get into. There's nothing like dropping friends over 
 cliffs or smashing them against walls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RAW666
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 15, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Some people put this game down but I think its a great one. The graphic arn't as good as they can 
 be but it has good game play, a good story and good cast of characters. This game is great and 
 I recommend that everyone who a Star Wars Fan or even a first person shooter come get this game. 
 Be ready to feel just like a Jedi and use the force Kyle and become a true Jedi. I havn't use mods 
 on this game so I havn't try to modified it, yet. I hope you enjoy the game too like I enjoy it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Weimo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 9, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  I beat this game 5 times and beat the lizard guy 39. It just never gets old when you're cutting 
 up stormtroopers. Also the lightsaber action in this game is like nothing else ive ever seen in 
 a game. Definitely the best star wars game of all time. Though I was dissappointed with the sequal, 
 Jedi Academy. The best part of Jedi Academy is that you can get two lightsabers, or a double. But 
 using a single lightsaber doesn't have the same feel as the ones in Outcast for some reason. And 
 Academy had less hands and arms flopping off, which was, the last time I checked, was the point 
 of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Junglemanchild
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 6, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  It's very surprising to think this game was released in 2002. It is a very good game, Dark Forces 
 was a classic game, so was Jedi Knight and this is the game that many fans were waiting for, a 
 post millennium Jedi Knight game which uses the best of the technology available.
  
  GAMEPLAY 9/10
  
  Most Star Wars fans would agree that the ability to wield a saber in the previous 
 game was amazing but limited. It has been updated heavily here, again you do not start with one 
 but thats explained in the story. When you finally start to use the lightsaber you will hardly 
 ever switch over to one of the guns. The physics are incredible... fighting a Dark Jedi is exciting, 
 it isnt a case of hit, hit and hit again hoping they die... skill is needed and this makes for an 
 exciting duel. Walk into a room with your lightsaber, take on 13 soldiers and walk out with barely 
 a scratch, unrealistic? No... thats what should happen in Star Wars games! There may not be many 
 force powers, but there are enough. Enough to get you out certain situations, they will upgrade 
 as you go on. Eventually, if you are in a tough spot you can throw a stormtrooper off a roof, choke 
 him and use him as a shield or trick one into thinking he's on your side, resulting in his comrades 
 being shot. Some levels are tedious though and have very little to offer that hasn't been offered 
 in a previous level. You cannot upgrade force powers yourself, it will do it automatically. It 
 is a rather linear game, which is always disappointing.
  
  GRAPHICS 7/10
  
  Graphics are good, above average. It is no longer actual actors in the cutscenes. Compared with 
 the previous game, these graphics obliterate the first games graphics... but compared to games from 
 this day, they don't equal them. But don't think they will be bad, they are definetly more than 
 decent for the year released! Locations look very nice indeed, especially places like Nar Shaadaa, 
 it looks massive! SOUND 10/10
  
  Sound in Star Wars games are always a strong point. Music will pick up when there is action. Hear 
 a Dark Jedi shout Jedi! and attack you, the various themes of the Star Wars universe will kick 
 into action. Voice acting is also strong. The actors aren't amateurs.
  
  VALUE 9/10
  
  The game will be a lot cheaper now. It's definetly worth a look. Fans of games such as Knights 
 of the Old Republic will appreciate the different style of gameplay, you will be happy to attack 
 enemies the way you want to, much more realistic than the turn system which makes KOTORepublic 
 so easy! There isn't much replay value, unless of course you increase difficulty, I played through 
 normal at first which took about 13hours. Second time around I played on hard setting, which took 
 less time but was of course more difficult when it came to battles!
  
  OVERALL 9.1/10
  
  It's a very strong Star Wars game which will appeal to all Star Wars fans who play games. The 
 story is strong and although it borrows ideas from the films, thats something almost every Star 
 Wars game does! So I highly recommend you stop reading and buy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antogall
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 22, 2006 8:47 am PT
Review:  Even now that Jedi Academy has been released, Jedi Outcast remains the best in series; its presentation 
 and gameplay were not surpassed by Academy. Though it has a few minor flaws. It is easily reccomendable 
 to anyone interested in action games or games set in the Star Wars universe. The gameplay in Jedi 
 Knight II: Jedi Outcast is the best in series. The ranged weapons in the game are a bit lacking 
 in terms of realism, as the laser beams travel slowly enough to dodge and for all the other advanced 
 technologies, some of the guns are woefully inaccurate. Despite the bland realism of these weapons, 
 they do all have a unique feature, such as the disruptor rifle (like a sniper rifle) , and the Fleschette 
 Gun, which launches flaming or exploding scraps of metal at your opponents. However, only the first 
 couple of hours in the game necessitate the use of ranged weapons, after which point, you gain 
 access to a lightsaber. This is where the game goes from good to great, after all saber combat 
 is at the core of the Jedi Knight series. Saber combat is very well implemented, and a large variety 
 of attacks and styles can be executed while wielding a saber. The only drawback to saber combat 
 is the minor lack of precision. Sometimes it is difficult to hit a particular enemy because the 
 saber doesn't move in exactly the right way. However, for the most part the system works great 
 and after a few hours, you'll be hacking away happily at storm troopers and Jedi. The level design 
 in the game is thorough and well done, with only a couple of repetitive schemes. It should be noted 
 that some of the puzzles can become extremely frustrating; if you miss a very small detail you 
 can often spend an hour or more trying to figure out what you missed. You will definetly want to 
 have a walkthrough handy for this game, and it is very disappointing that some of the puzzles were 
 designed so arbitrarily that you must be lucky enough to discover where they are. In one instance, 
 there is a small pipe you have to jump in from a caltwalk. You have no way of knowing the pipe 
 is there, so it doesn't really make sense that the developers would put such a design in their 
 level. Some of the jedi battle locations were extremely epic, most notably, the first, which occurs 
 in a massive wind tunnel which abounds with opportunities to fall to your death. However, most 
 of the battles occur in uninteresting locations, even bland rooms, which is easy to overlook, though 
 the setting of such battles can add a great epic sense to the game. The game is very challenging, 
 especially on the higher difficulty levels. Enemies will call for help, take cover, and even flee 
 if you kill their buddies. Be sure you save often, as the autosave system is horrible (sometimes 
 requiring you to replay from the beginning of a two hour level) but this is offset by the very 
 user friendly quicksave system. The graphics in Jedi Outcast were for the time very well done. 
 Though the technology naturally shows its age now, the artistic design is still often very clever 
 and highly varied. The game really utilizes many features of the Quake III engine to present locales 
 from dingy cantinas, to sterile star destroyers, and even foggy swamps. There are a lot of strange 
 issues with shadows, oftentimes they become jarringly disfigured, and some people may wish to switch 
 them off altogether. The sound in the game is very good, from the solid voice acting (did you know 
 that the same guy who did Mario's voice in Super Mario 64 has a role in this game?) to the buzz 
 of the lightsaber, to the sizzle of raindrops as they evaporate as they hit your saber. The music 
 is pulled straight from the soundtrack of the movies, but is very appropriate for a game like this. 
 In addition, it fades in and out very precisely when in and out of combat. At this point in time, 
 this game is a tremendous value, costing less than 10 dollars for about 20 hours worth of gameplay. 
 The multiplayer is very good too, though not as exciting as siege mode from Jedi Academy. The storyline 
 is good; simple and engrossing, and the game has a darker feel than its sequel Jedi Academy. If 
 you are looking for a satisfying, fun, and exciting action game for cheap (check ebay) you will 
 be thoroughly satisfied by Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vivaldi7575
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 17, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  If you've ever met Kyle Katarn, you know he's trouble, those one liners can really do some trouble 
 to his health. This game is uniquely made, at the fact that this is a first person shooter with 
 a light saber as you main weapon, so there's obviously alot of light saber combat, comeing along 
 with that light saber comabat is also some awesome moves to learn (and if you dont apply the latest 
 game updates there are some bugs/game exploits to use as deadly light saber moves, which can be 
 fun) . Though if you grow tired of the single player (part of this most excellent adventure) , you 
 can adapt to multiplayer (where at first you'll get you butt kicked) and duel your buds or just 
 people you don't know. This game runs on a Quake III engine so the server is the same as Quake 
 three's server operation, but that's only important information really for the host or advance 
 user/admin. All in all this game is definitely worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Monkey-Man1234
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 15, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  I had never really liked PC games, but this game was my first true PC gaming experience. Everything 
 about this game is excellent. The story, combat puzzles and the graphics are good too. You start 
 out as a measly little merc. No lightsaber, and no force powers. You can play from the third or 
 first person view. The first person is best for guns, the third person is best for lightsaber combat 
 and force power related puzzles. In about the third or fourth level you get the famed lightsaber, 
 and some basic force powers. Later on you get new force powers (light and dark) , and overtime they 
 all get more powerful. One of my favorite powers is force choke. When it gets to full power you 
 can actually move enemies around, which makes for some fun fights on an edge of a high platform. 
 This game includes a couple classic star wars characters, such as Luke and Lando, and a few new 
 ones such as the evil Desann. All of the voice acting is great too. Multiplayer is also very entertaining 
 in this game too. If you prefer bots don't worry, there are bots, all with different characteristics 
 and force configurations. Force powers are a big part of multiplayer. You start out with up to 
 60 force points (I think) depending on the server creator's prefrence. You have acess to a lightsaber, 
 and a pistol when you spawn in multiplayer. Other guns are spread throughout the map. The server 
 creator can set it to lightsabers only, so no guns at all are availabe. My only complaint is that 
 this game has very brief moments of hard puzzles and fights. Go out and by this game if you havn't 
 already! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ggwhilko
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 13, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Can't say how many times I've played this game, but I can say it never seems to lose its appeal. 
 Didn't play the first two of the seires, but thouroughly enjoy this one. A basic FPS done right. 
 Graphics are great for its time and even better now that my machine is up to par. Sound is pretty 
 good... it is Star Wars, so it has its limits, but if you can dig the movies, you'll appreciate 
 the sound. Ability to make numerous changes when entering the console allowing you decide lightsaber 
 color to degree of dismemberment. Nothing beats slicin' and dicin' with an good ole-fashined light-sabre. 
 Did I mention the light-saber... it takes a while to get too, but it is well worth the wait, doubling 
 the games fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jellies1324
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 12, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  What other game could be more fun than slashing Stormtroopers with your lightsaber and seeing their 
 hands and leg fall apart?
  
  That's right, real saber physics and a wide range of weapons are one of the great parts in Jedi 
 Outcast. The amazing range of characters and technology is boundless! I think this game will attract 
 SW fans like a Yuuzhan Vong gravity well projector!
  
  And the voices are recorded from various stars, including Billy Dee Williams, who stars as Lando 
 Calrissian in the Star Wars Trilogy!
  
  Gameplay's not too hard, but hey, you can always count on cheats to clear your way through the 
 tough phases, right?
  
  Anyway, I definitely recommend this game to all of you SW gamers out there!
  
  MAY THE FORCE 
 BE WITH YOU 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Connor42
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 3, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Their has been a lot of Star Wars games, but this stands out on my mind the most. The single player's 
 gameplay is great, but it starts off pretty hard at first. In the first five missions you're stuck 
 with your pistol and a E-11 Assault rifle. And those guns are basic guns so you don't start off 
 powerful. After these first five missions though, this game is amazing. You'll have your lightsaber, 
 and after that, you won't feel the need to use the blasters.
  
  There are 3 stances for your lightsaber, and they all have there advantages and disadvantages. 
 You'll start off with the medium stance. You can pull off some somewhat strong swings in a fair 
 speed. Then you'll get a fast stance. This stance is fast, yet weak. Its useful for clearing out 
 a room full of enemys. The last one is the strong stance. This will probably be used less because 
 its slow, but its useful for killing an enemy jedi, called reborns, in one strike.
  
  The AI is pretty impressive. Your enemy's will flank you if they get the chance. They'll run for 
 cover when they take damage or they you slaughtering their comrades, but once you get your lightsaber 
 you'll probably hardly notice this because you'll kill them pretty quickly.
  Theirs never a dull moment in this game. You'll crawl around vents and you might hear a conversation 
 between storm troopers, which some can be rather funny.
  
  The multiplayer is what stands out in my mind the most because it offers this real intense feeling 
 in deathmatch (Free For All) . You can work as a team in Team FFA and Capture the Flag. All these 
 are really cool. Their's also a duel mode where you can fight 1v1. Theirs also this mode call jedi-master 
 where if you have the lightsaber your a jedi and if you lose it your'e stuck with the weapons trying 
 to kill the jedi.
  
  Holocrons is when you have a lightsaber but don't have force powers, so you have to collect holocrons 
 to get force powers. The last one is Capture the Ysalamarie, if you collect this you can't use your 
 force powers but people can't use force powers on you. The graphics aren't really that impressive 
 bacause the character models are pretty bad, but the lightsabers, explosions, and the blaster lazers 
 are really good.
  
  The music is superb also, it uses John William's score. The music is calm when your'e not in combat, 
 but during combat the music gets exciting and you won't get bored with the sound. The voice is 
 very, very, very good. The people don't sound dull, or having over reactions. Kyle Katarn, reall 
 sounds like an old guy thats just in it for the money, and he is.
  
  Star Wars Jedi Knight II Jedi Outcast stands out very nice. Like I said, If you're looking for 
 a game, with great single or multiplayer, then you should give this game a try. Star Wars fans 
 should definitley like this game. People who like action games will be pleased also. The multiplayer 
 is the main
  reason to get this game but if you want a single player, you won't be sorry
  to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordgodalming
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 16, 2006 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Jedi Outcast follows Kyle Katarn, the hero from the two previous Dark Forces games, and his copilot, 
 Jan Ors. Now, I have to admit, Outcast is a fairly generic shooter for about the first seven levels, 
 mainly because the game farts around that long before giving you back your lightsaber and Force 
 powers. However, gameplay is so vastly improved from the previous titles, that you'll hardly notice. 
 Force powers are no longer controlled by the F keys on your keyboard, which is particularly helpful 
 for Force Jump. Instead of repeatedly cracking your head on crates or ceilings above you like in 
 Jedi Knight, the height of your jump is determined simply by how long you hold the jump button. 
 Your lightsaber behaves as a normal weapon, meaning the LMB swings and the RMB performs the alternate 
 attack, a very useful boomerang throw. Force Push and Pull are also particularly useful now, as 
 they knock out whole seas of enemies for a precious few seconds while you get close enough to use 
 the lightsaber. Force Speed is also helpful, but not really essential until you reach the final 
 boss.
  
  The graphics of Jedi Outcast are, I believe, built on the Quake III engine, meaning that they're 
 good, but not astounding. What is most impressive about the graphics is the locations. You get 
 to visit many familiar spots from other SW games and the original trilogy, including the base on 
 Yavin 4 and, my favorite, Lando Calrissian's mining colony on Bespin. Old Lando even shows up for 
 a cameo, voiced by Billy Dee Williams himself.
  
  Lucasarts made the right choice by farming out Jedi Outcast to Raven Software. In a market clogged 
 with ever-lousier first person shooters, Jedi Outcast is still a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmyboy131
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2006 2:37 am PT
Review:  It's tough for me to say anything bad about this game. I've been an obsessive Star Wars fan since 
 '77, and this game brought back all the warm-fuzzies that I had when I was a kid. Why? Because. 
 OK, more than that, really.
  
  The game developers somehow managed to capture the essence of Star Wars. Playing Jedi Outcast is 
 like playing in the original movie, A New Hope , like I always wanted to do when I was a kid. The 
 atmosphere, the graphics, and especially the sound, plus the uniquely-Star Warsy lightsaber action; 
 let's not forget the various Force powers... add it all together and before you know it, you're 
 actually a Jedi in the Star Wars universe!
  
  The games starts out as a normal shooter. You are Kyle, as you were in the previous excellent Jedi 
 Knight game. You have a couple of guns, and no Force powers. You have to find your way and blast 
 your way through a few levels before you can re-learn your powers, and find your lightsaber. Yep, 
 you have to find it. Once you actually find it, then you have to GET it. Not so easy, even aided 
 by the basic Force powers you now have. However, once you get your lightsaber, then it really does 
 become a new and different game. Get the hang of using your powers and saber, and that's all you'll 
 be using for the rest of the game. So in other words, you'll go through the game as a Jedi, using 
 the Force and lightsaber for defense (OK, mostly attack) . You'll find that you won't need any of 
 the other weapons, since you can easily block multiple laser blasts; push/pull objects and people; 
 mind-trick certain people; and jump and run inhumanly fast. You can also heal yourself with the 
 Force, which is a critical asset in many situations. You'll encounter many Force-abled warriors 
 who will challenge your saber and Force skills, as well as your ingenuity and perseverance. This 
 game is challenging, but rewarding.
  
  Oh yes, I haven't mentioned the story yet, have I? Well, I thought it was engrossing. The voice 
 acting is very good. I actually felt like I knew Kyle and his lady-friend, Jan. I liked how their 
 relationship had developed, and I really liked them as a couple. (yeah, I know, sappy, cheesy... well, 
 whatever, I liked it!) Thus, I felt their humanity and their pain and frustration, as well as their 
 joy, as the situations worked themselves out. Like I said, it was like playing in a movie, and 
 when the game was finished, I was wanting a sequel RIGHT NOW!
  
  All along the way you see neat Star Wars sights, meet various creatures and characters from the 
 movies, and hear genuine Star Wars music and sounds. I tell you, the atmosphere in the game is 
 spot-on. I don't usually play single-player games a second time, but this one I've played twice, 
 and I'll very likely play it a couple more times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gwottalegend
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 10, 2006 3:17 am PT
Review:  This has got to be my favourite Star Wars game yet, and I have a lot of Star Wars games. It is 
 challenging, fun and highly addictive.
  
  The storyline is brilliant, following an ex-jedi who swore never to use his powers again, but breaks 
 his vow to track down a dark-jedi who appears to have killed his best friend Jan. On his journey 
 he is tempted by the dark-side and nears to becoming a sith himself.
  
  The graphics are quite good for a computer, and the characters faces arent blurry, as is the 
 case in many games. The environment is sharp, but some bushes and trees tend to look a bit 2D.
 
  
  Sound is excellent, from the gunshots and lightsaber battles to the simple cut-scenes and never 
 disappoint.
  
  This game is a must-have for all Star Wars fans and is still entertaining every time it is played. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcr_jor
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 15, 2006 4:45 am PT
Review:  this is by far the best game ive ever played i never played games on my pc until jedi knight 2 
 came out, this is a masterpiece. the multiplzyer is truly amazing, and go to any store and get it 
 for about 5 pounds. I would of given this game about 7.9 but ive given it 9.6 because the multiplayer 
 is so consuming. Without a dought in my mind one of the best games to hit the pc in a while. although 
 can get annoying at times, there is something for everyone in this game i live this game and i hate 
 star wars lol. You need this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phil812k1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 9, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  In my humble opinion, Jedi Outcast=Greatest Star Wars Game EVER. Except REpublic Commando, but 
 Republic Commando doesn't let you chop people up using g_saberrealisticcombat 1 (that's an important 
 lesson, children. Copy paste that somewhere safe) . The storyline is pretty straightforward-in fact, 
 I'm impressed they even got all of this game out of it - but very immersive. The combat is AWESOME!!! 
 You pretty much forget you have anything except a lightsaber until you have to dodge those nasty 
 little disruptor rifles. Simply blocking shots is boring, though. The real perk in the combat is 
 the lightsaber dueling. You actually duel with the saber now and it's a lot easier now that it's 
 in 3rd person. Again, g_saberrealisticcombat 1 comes into play here. You can remove body parts 
 from their various owners and said owners proceed to act like theyve had their body parts removed. 
 i. e, chop off a guys hand, and he clutches his wrist while dies and goes AAAAAAAH. Lends to the 
 atmosphere of the game. There's a bug on one of the levels that makes it unbeatable, but it doesnt 
 do much to gameplay. Its just annoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bomberman65
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 27, 2006 3:40 pm PT
Review:  I've always been a fan of the JK series and JO is no exception. The story might not be as great 
 a the original but its saber combat more than makes up for it. And while I was disapointed that 
 the live action cutscenes were gone its still the best in the series in terms of gameplay. The 
 locations are very familiar to any SW fan and some are completely new. The MP has also been up 
 too. You can now have AI bots that have their own personality. All and all I'd say that its the 
 best JK until they remake the original.
  
  http://shamusworld. gotdns. org/df2mod/index. html 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tekmojo
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 10, 2006 11:50 pm PT
Review:  Ok, here it goes.
  
  I simply love this game, and always will. It has given me some of the most entertaining, emotional, 
 addiciting times I have ever had in a game. And why is that must you ask?
  The lightsaber. I know there were older Jedi Knight games, and no I did not have the chance to 
 play all of them, yet. However I could easily say I did not have to. I realize what Lucas Arts 
 tried and succeeded to do here. To provide an overall long lasting experience in the Star Wars 
 fantasy lore. Even if you are not into all that stuff, I still would recommend trying this game. 
 Like I said before, this game kept me in the servers for hours on end. I dueled mostly, and joined 
 clans, which was what kept me playing for so long. The chance to show off your skills was so much 
 fun. I had gained much appreciation from the whole JK2 community during my active years. I try 
 to stop playing this game, but whenver I take too long of a break, I find myself coming back for 
 more!
  So that covers the value of the game, now here's some more about the gameplay. I love everybit 
 of the game's mechanics. The balance in the saber combat is very good. I could only find few other 
 games that offered this sense of freedom in online play. With that being said, the graphics are 
 based off the Quake 3 engine, looks good for its time, but is outdated. That should not hold you 
 back though, try this out and see for yourself.
  There are the traditional online game modes such as CTF, FFA, TFFA, and other kinds like the Duel 
 mode. Sound and music are very impressive, all honoring the work of the Star Wars frachise.
  All in all, this is not a game to be missed from FPS fans, to RPG fans, and to any others who wish 
 to become a Jedi Knight! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoctaStrangelov
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 31, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  Highs: Excellent lightsabre fighting, good AI, Awesome forcepowers, exceptional multiplayer.
  
  Lows: Early levels are very mundane, Chewbacca (or any Wookie) does not make a cameo.
  
 
  Jedi Outcast is the thrid Dark Forces game despite it selling itself as the second Jedi Knight 
 game. This means that you play as a Post Death Star Mercinary named Kyle Katarn who was once a 
 Jedi but because of the danger of falling to the dark-side retired his lightsabre. The first level 
 is about Kyle and his girlfriend investigating an imperial lab, and the next is about the investigating 
 an imperial mine. Niether of these levels are very fun but they do provide some good squences to 
 break up the munotonous gameplay at that point which is simply shooting Stormtroopers in the face. 
 While Stormtroopers are easy to kill they have good AI and seem to always ry to flank you and overwhelm 
 you. The Stromtroopers are only half as smart as the Reborn dark Jedi faced in later levels but 
 are still decent enemies. About the Reborns... so the plot is a Dark Jedi named Dessan tricked 
 Kyle into revealing the location of The Valley of the Jedi which is a big stream of Force that 
 empowers people who use it so that he can give stromtroopers force powers. These Stormtroopers 
 are now called rebonrs and to make matters worse Dessan also mined a mineral called Cortosis which 
 esists lightsabres and makes armour for these Reborns from it. He then wants to use these things 
 to assualt the Jedi Academy, kill Kyle, Luke Skywalker, and the other (nameless) Jedi which will 
 allow him to conquer the Galaxy. The plot has some good suprises nd twists and you get to fight 
 in alot of cool places. Mostly indoors in imerpial bases but also swamps, and cities. There is 
 even a level where you hijack an AT-ST just like Cewbacca did. The main reason you will love this 
 game is the awesome Lightsabre fights, the system is alot deeper than at first glance but very 
 accesible and easy to use without a control, in fact it is probalby easier to use a M+KB to play 
 this game. All of the lightsabre duels in the game are Epic battles because the dark Jedi are almost 
 as good as you are, and that is just on easiest setting. These fights are most of the time ariel 
 battles as well for you need to use you force jump to move while sabrefighting and this makes for 
 incredible gameplay that has never been bested (well in Action/Adventure games) , and they get even 
 better because the AI is very effective at usingf thier force powers. Also once you get some of 
 the stronger force powers you may never draw your sabre on a stromtrooper again, you could hose 
 them down with force lighting, use force grip to drag an enemy infront of his allies' blaster fire, 
 use force pull to rip the guns from enemies hands or use mind trick to cause an enemy to attack 
 his comrades. Multiplayer, even on bot-match is also an incredible experiance, in multiplayer you 
 get twice the powers, the best MP only power being drain which converts and enemies force power 
 to your heath or his heath if he has no energy left. There are alot of maps, many of which are 
 not just rehashes of singleplayer areas and some many unique gameplay modes it is impossible to 
 list all in detail. 
  
  Bottom line: If your are a fan of Star Wars, FPSs, or Action Adventure games you will love this 
 game, and if you do not fit those three aforementioned prerequsties you probalby do not play videogames. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fatgoat1994
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 24, 2006 1:37 pm PT
Review:  This was a mind blowing game for me. I got it for my crappy old laptop. It didn't work so i tried 
 on my 512 computer and it worked like a charm. For that era, when the graphics are pumped up there 
 real nice. My favorite part of the game was the saber vs saber fighting. they used a really unique 
 way to work it and it was great. Knights of the old republic was in every way a great game. but 
 the combat was slow and choppy. This is not true for Jedi outcast . its fast easy to learn and 
 if used right looks really pretty. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rambo_Potter
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 20, 2006 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Playing the through the game for a couple of hours., I was kind of disappointed. The game really 
 begins very dull as you blast through Stormtroopers and it reallys plays like a standard, uninteresting 
 FPS. Then, you get the Force and a lightsaber. After that it's a whole different game. You have 
 an assortment of force powers to unleash and can wail through people with a light saber. It's pure 
 awesomeness to lightsaber duel against 3 people at once . The graphics hold up well in comparison 
 to current-gen consoles but shows it's age against current PC titles life Half-Life 2, doom 3, 
 and Prey but still looks quite good. Besides, it's not about graphics, it's about being a totally 
 sweet Jedi (the main hero is awesome, makes me think of if Solid Snake were a Jedi) and being able 
 to hack fools with a lightsaber or using the force to push them only to hit them with a Wookie 
 crossbow while they're down. Second to KOTOR in my opinion of the all time great Star Wars titles. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ray_735
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 9, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  I can say that I am a Star wars fan myself.
  I remember the first time I played such a game... it was Knights of the old republic, an RPG, but 
 how i love FPSs games this one is a lot more efficient. Imagine the game-play with Jedy powers, 
 how could it get better?
  The player custom is also a good part. The graphics are curiously amazing,
  when we use a light-saber 
 on an opponent, we can cut his throat, or his arm,
  so thats funny.
  All previous Jedi powers are included, such as thunder, mind control and the power wave.
  This 
 game goes on my list for sure, because in my opinion the games score is above 9.1.
  Where will Star Wars bring us next?
  No one Knows. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lowryder7890
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 20, 2006 9:24 pm PT
Review:  The second and best of the Jedi Knight series. This game never gets old you can never stop playing 
 it, especially on multiplayer. I liked the first but the poor graphics ruined it (but what would 
 you expect from an old game.) Even after you beat it you can play it through again with cheats 
 to make it funner, my favorite cheat is the npc spawn, setting up enemies and an army of allies 
 and stay back and watch the carnage :) . On multiplayer the gameplay is much harder and much funner. 
 Playing the game on multiplayer now is a little differnet cause there are not many people who play 
 anymore. But when you download a mod and create a bot and name it Punish Whore and thrash it with 
 cmds like slap, explode, teleport, sleep, and may more. The graphics are amazing even for a game 
 made in 2002, on pc the people and objects look real, for xbox its not so great but still delivers 
 the good storyline and intence combat. Jedi Academy was a train wreak with the whole Rosh dark 
 side light side thing but what would you expect for $10......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 15, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast (which should really be Dark Forces III: Jedi Outcast) is the sequel 
 to 1995's Dark Forces, 1997's Dark Forces II: Jedi Knight and the 1998 expansion for the latter, 
 Jedi Knight: Mysteries of the Sith. Unlike the previous games in the series which were developed 
 by Lucasarts in-house Raven Software was tasked to develop Outcast, and while the story is solid 
 other areas fall flat.
  
  In Jedi Outcast you once again take on the role of the likeable mercenary Kyle Katarn who starred 
 in Dark Forces, Jedi Knight and was part of Mysteries of the Sith's storyline. Due to the events 
 at the Sith temple on Dromuund Kaas in MotS Katarn has given up his Jedi Powers in fear of being 
 tempted by the dark side like he was on the dreary swamp world, so he has returned to his mercenary 
 ways and works as an agent for the New Republic. Eventually he will have to reconnect to the Force, 
 to stop a newly surfaced Dark Jedi.
  
  The gameplay in Jedi Outcast is fairly similar to the gameplay in Jedi Knight. Unlike Jedi Knight, 
 though; you cannot choose what Force powers you get, and when, as that is all decided at the beginning 
 of every mission. Also the weapons in Outcast are underpowered when compared to those found in 
 Dark Forces, and Jedi Knight. The guns seem very weak, and the lightsaber is extremely underpowered.
 
  
  The level design in the past Dark Forces games was solid and atmospheric; unfortunately Jedi Outcast 
 suffers from poor to borderline absurd level design. Most of the levels are fairly bland in design, 
 and quite frequently look quite similar. Granted I wasn't expecting eye candy like in, say, Unreal 
 when playing Outcast as the Dark Forces series was never about eye candy, but even 1995's Dark 
 Forces featured more varied and atmospheric levels than Outcast.
  
  Jedi Outcast uses the Quake III engine which was dated even at the time Outcast came out. Despite 
 this, the graphics were decent and characters were detailed, though nothing in the game stood out. 
 The graphics are good, but not great.
  
  The sound is as you would expect from a Star Wars game. There is all around decent voice acting, 
 and the game is filled with Star Wars sound effects and the memorable original trilogy score by 
 John Williams. Outcast also sees the return of interactive music that is quiet when you are exploring, 
 and picks up when you enter combat with enemies. The sound is great.
  
  Jedi Outcast is a solid successor to the previous two titles in the series, but it could have been 
 a lot better if Raven put more effort into the level design, and spent some more time balancing 
 the weapons. Regardless, it is a must play for Dark Forces\Jedi Knight, and Star Wars fans alike. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drumma4Life
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 6, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  This is an excellent FPS, with a good story, long campaign, and top-notch combat. 
  
  I wouldn't really call it a First Person Shooter, it's more like a Third Person Saber. I found 
 myself using the lightsaber for nearly the whole game, it's THAT fun. It's a great time toying 
 with the easier enemies in the game (stormtroopers, etc.) with the Forcer Power and saber, but 
 it really shines in the combat with the Dark Jedi. I found myself reloading sections of the game 
 I had just completed just to experience the lightsaber duels all over again. The enemy AI is superb, 
 acting just like you would expect a Dark Jedi to. And there are some difficult battles, too! None 
 are hard enough to be frustrating and agonizing, at least not on the default difficulty. But even 
 duels with the lowest of low Jedi require a lot concentration and effort, especially if you're 
 just learning how to use the saber. Once you start picking up the moves and learning how to use 
 it effectively, the game picks it up a notch and gradually increases the proficiency of the Jedi 
 you face. No duel is ever a breeze, and every battle is seemingly a struggle with life and death. 
 In the later stages of the game where the Jedi are particularly difficult, if you leave one lapse 
 if your defense the Jedi will expose it and cut you down.
  
  This game is incredible, an awesome experience to behold, especially the first time through. It 
 also seemingly never gets old, thanks to the excellent enemy AI, and expansive multiplayer options. 
 If you don't mind not seeing your family, girlfriend/boyfriend , friends for a while, go out and 
 get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Obi-Wan678
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 5, 2006 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - Well Jedi Knight Jedi Outcast offers alot. What is best about it however is the combat 
 system. Using the different lightsaber stances you have (light, Standard, Heavy) will allow you 
 to perform some other moves that you can do to kill your enemies in a flashy way. The Force powers 
 are nice and help bring the game come to life, puzzles also come in this game involving alot of 
 mind work, and realism is added. Usually in Jedi games, Jedi don't die after they get hit by a 
 lightsaber, in this game you do and if you don't you are severly wounded.
  Graphics - Well the cutscenes are nice using great FMV effects and when playing the game the levels 
 are long and just magnificent. The Lightsaber look nice and the characters are fascinating.
  Sound - Well John Williams is a great music composer and all of his original scores come into this 
 game making a classic. The Lightsaber's sound just like they do in the movies to spice it all up.
 
  Value - This game is great and at a low price it's a must buy, if you can find it that is.
  Tilt - A great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 6me1
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 2, 2006 10:44 am PT
Review:  I dont like the fact that u cant make your own guy like on acedemy i like that one better because 
 of that. this is a pretty fun game though. The graphics aren't the best in the world the sound 
 on the videos is off a little bit, but other then those few things this is very fun. i wouldn't 
 send more then $20 on it though it's rather short but it's fun goin back through the game with 
 cheats and seeing what you can do differently. i wish you could run straight up walls though instead 
 of only along the wall or just jumping off of the wall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 1, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  This is by far one of the best jedi games out there, and one of the better star wars ones. i remember 
 back when we first started playing it was great fun, and now to day it still is.
  the story is easy to follow, but still keeps you interested all through it till you face *ba ba 
 bam* an evil character! its awesome.
  the saber battles are great too, they really did a good job of making it realistic and have a nice 
 flow when you get locked with some dark jedis.
  and if your the type who likes it hard (lol) then your in luck, because you can set up the difficulty 
 and play some really realistic one hit kill games.
  the mulitplayer is probably one of the best parts though. its exciting, its got sabers and jedi 
 powers, what more could u ask for?
  basically what im gettting at, is this game fricken rocks! i would definetly play it if u havent. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Battleer
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 11, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  So for starters the gameplay is quite amazing from easy combat with stormtroopers to very complex 
 and challenging with dark jedi it is also quite an exiting game and features very responsive controls 
 with a standard keyboard and mouse. The graphics are quite good in this game and it can be played 
 on a wide range of systems. The sound is not that special imo but it's still good although the music 
 can get kinda repetitive in multiplayer matchs. Value wow this is a long game taking me nearly 20 
 hours to finish just the single player missons and the multiplayer is the best part I speant countless 
 hours fraging on the mountain's of multiplayer maps with my friends and even today the online community 
 is quite large though it's slowly fading. Tilt this game has a great story with lot's of twist's 
 and turn's. Well that about sums it up this game is really great and is still quite fun today just 
 don't get it for the gunning action because it doesn't really shine in that area. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drugged-Sheep
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 7, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  you start, running around with a couple gun, going through stormtrooper missions with some puzzles 
 to figure out. this is fun but can get old after a bit. but then they give you the light saber 
 and everything changes. this game is just plain fun, nothing else to say. no huge loading time, 
 not that big of a game in general, nothing too complex, its just plain fun. i would just start 
 up this game, play it for only a minute or two, and i would be very happy. i would recomend this 
 game to anyone who likes star wars and who like to have a good time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leandro29
Rating: 10
Date: May 8, 2006 10:44 pm PT
Review:  Best Star Wars game ever 
  Jedi Outcast was to my opinion the best star wars game ever. For its time it had great graphics 
 and sound. I was amazed by the long exciting gameplay that may have you up all night just to see 
 what will happen next.... and next... and next etc. The storyline may have you coming across the 
 star wars legends, such as Lando and Luke Skywalker. Unlike other games lightsabre duels dont last 
 ten seconds, these guys actually put up a fight, the enemy will try anything to stop you from landing 
 one blow, they will block your attacks and try to counter them which can have the fights lasting 
 minutes. There is also a wide variety of weapons to choose from, which will have an advantage depending 
 on the terrain, which also ranges from giant space ships, jungles, temples, and even Bespin. Overall 
 i think it was a great game and i highly recomend it to any star wars fan, or anyone just looking 
 for a good storyline game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboydb59
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 14, 2006 6:21 am PT
Review:  (I removed my old review, having now played through the game and loved every minute of it.)
  
  This game never stops getting better. The second to last level is awesome, being full of big 
 saber-fights between four or more Jedi, and the rest is still very good. There's a great storyline, 
 the levels are imaginatively designed, the enemies are varied, the weapons are decent, it runs 
 on an old computer but you can get great graphics out of it on a new computer, and of course, there's 
 the lightsaber. Unlike in Academy, you can use a first-person view with the lightsaber, although 
 it makes precision jumping almost impossible.
  
  And there is a lot of jumping. This game has a lot of platform hopping and controlled falls from 
 where you are to a few levels down. But thankfully they throw enough enemies at you that you don't 
 find yourself thinking Arrghh, another jump. I hate this! 
  
  Gameplay: Very good. AI and Clipping are near-perfect, much better than in newer games like Battlefront 
 II.
  Puzzles can take real creativity at times. Graphics: Great! As long as you've got a good computer 
 (not too hard as this is an old game) they're very smooth with a frame rate to match. Most of the 
 levels aren't stunning but they aren't drab either, and only a few are harsh.
  
  Sound: Very good... they seem to pick only the best original trilogy tracks. That's what I hate 
 about Battlefront, it seems it's always in some slow part with only one instrument playing, which 
 doesn't fit the action very well. The music is great here, although you can use it as a radar as 
 it picks up when enemies are near.
  
  Value: Incredibly high. This is one of the greatest games of all time and now it's cheap.
  
 
  Reviewer's Tilt: Hey, this is my favorite game that I have.
  
  One last note: The strafing is too sensitive. Yeah it's weak but it's the only problem with the 
 game and needed pointing out. Don't worry about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Point_Blank
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 7, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  This is the best star wars game ever. I wish there were more jedi battles. I also think the graphics 
 could have been better. I like how they made it so you automatically block  
 ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` `` `` ``` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` `` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` `` `` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` `u 
 u u u u u u u u u u u u u u u uu u u u u u u u u u u u uu uu 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wootcolors
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 4, 2006 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Jedi Knight 2: Jedi Outcast has been out for 4 years now. But when you turn it on it 
 seems like it came out just yesterday. It has all of the nice special effects, great sounds, and 
 more up to date graphics and sound. As a matter of fact this game actually looks better than later 
 SW game releases like Star Wars Battlefront. Yet when you begin to play the game things really 
 heat up. The single player is great but when you get online the game blows you away. There are 
 not that many players online now but the capture the flag is awesome.
  
  Gameplay: The lightsaber and gun action are both superb. There are many moves you can pull of and 
 lots of variety of the enemies you can kill. The game's graphics and sound perfectly compliment 
 the action as well as give you some hints to what you should do next.
  
  Graphics/Sound: Both are excellent. The game is very realistic (considering it is star wars) and 
 the sounds seem like they came from the movie which is great.
  
  Value: The game is only around 10 dollars now but it would probably be the best 10 bucks you will 
 have spent in a while. Please buy this game!
  
  Tilt: Not only do I suggest you buy this game but I suggest you mod it! Lucasarts and Raven have 
 provided us with a very easy interface and some tools so we can mod the game easily. This game 
 is awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MichaelMorbid
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 4, 2008 12:58 am PT
Review:  I played this game way back when, but had to write a review for it. It is just that good. Since 
 it's dated I felt I couldn't give it as good a graphics rating as I would have liked, but it isn't 
 too bad considering it's last generation.
  
  It is worth hunting down and playing if you haven't. It's likely bargin bin currently, but don't 
 let that fool you, this game is top notch. Great characters, great story, great gameplay, great 
 sound, great use of the Star Wars licence. Frankly, outside of the KOTORs, no other Star Wars game 
 comes close to touching JKII.
  
  Reviewing the Multiplayer is a different subject. Trying to be objective is tough. It was great 
 if you had the patience to learn. Like all online gaming, you're experience differs depending upon 
 the company. Some people, self included, were a tad on the ruthless side. There are patches out 
 there, but I must say that the right out of the box retail version had more strategy in online 
 fights. The patched versions leave little strategy other than swinging your lightsaber like a sparkler.
 
  
  Think Outcast was also better than Jedi Academy that followed it. For whatever reason, Outcast 
 seemed more realistic. Academy seemed more aimed at a younger audience. JKII is definitely in my 
 top three games of all time.
  
  Only downside is you don't get a freaking compass. Getting lost is way too easy. Some of the puzzles 
 are a bit confusing, tedious, and difficult... but taking down stormtroopers with a lightsaber 
 is all worth it.
  
  If you end up on Nar Shadda, I'd recommend the Ruby Bliels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbo0827
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 6, 2006 3:19 pm PT
Review:  I enjoy Star Wars games. I really enjoyed Jedi Knight 2 Jedi Outcast though. This is one of the 
 best Star Wars games made for PC. The graphics are good and the sounds of sabers hitting each other 
 is also good. The gameplay is done pretty well too. Every time I fight an evil Sith lord I always 
 goof off a little because it is so fun. If only Episode 3 was like this gameplay wise. The beginning 
 is a bit slow because you don't have a lightsaber but once you get the lightsaber and most of your 
 force powers you can have a good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ttominda
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 22, 2006 2:53 am PT
Review:  Jedi Outcast is one the best games I have played for many reasons. .First is a very good action 
 game, with a good story, a bunch of nice weapons and a lot of not very stupid enemies. Second, also 
 has some role elements, like the way you improve your abilities. 
  
  It starts as a first person shooter, and later on it becomes an amazing third person action game. 
 Then is when the game gives you its best. When you are able to use force powers and the light saber, 
 you understand that there's something especial about this game.
  
  In addition to that , if you like Star Wars universe the atmosphere is absolutely great. Not only 
 because of the appearance of many SW characters, but because of the design of the levels (100% 
 Lucas-like) . 
  
  You will have the sensation of being in a real Star Wars movie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flibblewerfer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 17, 2006 10:09 pm PT
Review:  Jedi Outcast was to my opinion the best star wars game ever. For its time it had great graphics 
 and sound. I was amazed by the long exciting gameplay that may have you up all night just to see 
 what will happen next.... and next... and next etc. The storyline may have you coming across the 
 star wars legends, such as Lando and Luke Skywalker. Unlike other games lightsabre duels dont last 
 ten seconds, these guys actually put up a fight, the enemy will try anything to stop you from landing 
 one blow, they will block your attacks and try to counter them which can have the fights lasting 
 minutes. There is also a wide variety of weapons to choose from, which will have an advantage depending 
 on the terrain, which also ranges from giant space ships, jungles, temples, and even Bespin. Overall 
 i think it was a great game and i highly recomend it to any star wars fan, or anyone just looking 
 for a good storyline game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta1238
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 12, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  this is a great game, both first- and third person!
  in the 2 first levels, you start lightsaber-less, but starting from level 3, the fun really begins! 
 fight the remnants (empire) as kyle, and save the galaxie!
  and when you find out what the empire is up to, you rush to the jedi academie to help the poor 
 jedi fight the lightsaber-wielding reborn and shadowtroopers! too bad you need to cheat if you 
 want enemies (or you) get chopped in half or lose an arm or leg... or head. fix that problem in 
 a patch please!
  final note: force powers are highly addictive, use them! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RESISTEE926
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 23, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  First off I am not dissing this game in anyway I just think it couldve been much better. Academy 
 is your best bet for fun. Anyway, some parts are extremely hard, (especialy when saber combat gets 
 frustrating) the game is a little short. Lemme tell you, the above score is just for single player. 
 multiplayer and singleplayer with cheats are an absolute blast! I mean there is this cheat where 
 everything is in slowmo and where wherever your saber touches it dismembers a bodypart of an enemy. 
 A flying cheat (noclip) lets you explore every detail of the maps. If the game wasnt so dang hard 
 and frustrating in some areas, the results would have been much better but It is still worth checking 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragon247uk
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 16, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  Jedi Outcast carries everything a game would need to become an instant Star Wars classic. Jedi 
 outcast carries the same great storyline as it's predecessor and it's prequel. You follow the footsteps 
 of mercenary Kyle Katatrn. Treading the galaxy looking for hints about the whereabouts of the remains 
 of the Empire, 'the remenant' as it is refered to in the game.
  
  Okay, it's a Star Wars game and the graphics aren't the best in the world. But so what? (If you 
 think these graphics are bad then you obviously haven't heard of Guild wars yet....) 
  
  I have rated the gameplay 10 because it carries a great storyline and easy-to-use controls.
  
 
  I have left the graphics rating at seven because the graphics are a bit rough. But dispite these 
 defects it is still a good game.
  
  I have rated the sound 9 because although it is good it isn't perfect. It isn't tinny and doesn't 
 sound cheap.
  
  Value I have rated 10 because the game is worth every penny.
  
  Personally i think the game is brilliant and more original than Academy ever will be.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ifrah
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2005 11:51 am PT
Review:  Now that's more like it, we need more games of this quality. I've been waiting along time for a 
 really good Star Wars game. Jedi Outcast fills the void of sub-standard Games From Lucus-arts. 
 Although Raven did develop this game. So maybe sub-standard games fron lucus-arts will continue, 
 I hope not. However let's get on with Jedi outcast, how is it you say great, Grahics are awsome, 
 the Quake 3 engine has never looked better. Although I do have one minor complaint, I wish you 
 were allowed to pick what skills you want instead of them being picked for you. The original Jedi 
 Knight II allowed you to upgrade your own skill level after each level was completed, and depending 
 on how well you completed the level you could get more skill points to upgrade your character. 
 However that's no big deal the skills you do get are still really cool. Also I really like the 
 Kyle Katarn character, he has that cruff mersionary quality to him. Also he talks, kinda helps 
 develop the charcter alittle (hint) Half Life you know the muted Gorden Freeman. But getting back 
 to Jedi Outcast, sound great, gameplay top notch, and Story awsome. So final rulling buy this game 
 now if your a GAMER! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 26, 2005 3:08 pm PT
Review:  The Star Wars universe is one that will never get old and will always remain interesting. Who doesn't 
 want to wield a lightsaber or use the force? Everyone does. Jedi Outcast is a part of a series 
 of games starring Katarn, such as Dark Forces and Jedi Knight. Katarn is someone who isn't a Jedi 
 but learned the Jedi ways in some form due to his midichlorian count, I assume. There is also the 
 Valley of the Jedi, which gives whoever walks in the beam of light Force powers. That explains 
 why this Han Solo like character is so attuned with the Force, since the final boss you'll face 
 can kill Luke, a Jedi Master now (you can use cheats to spawn Luke and watch him fight Desaan, 
 and Desaan won everytime) . What makes Katarn nice is that he can access both the light and dark 
 sides of the Force without any psychological guidelines. I wish there was a meter that can measure 
 you, like the ones in Knights of the Old Republic - you can actually become a light or dark jedi 
 based on your actions. The graphics are solid and the storyline is good. The saber fighting effects 
 is nice but could be better. Lucasarts needs to come out with a lightsaber prop that is wireless 
 and can be used to fight in games, now that would be the day. Isn't it strange that in the movies, 
 Jedi have to slash and cut in order to kill enemies - wouldn't it be much easier to glide through? 
 Here's an example. Instead of slashing droids, just run through them with your saber. That's an 
 inconsistency that Lucas hoped you'd never notice, but since it's his imagination, he'll probably 
 have some excuse for it. Have fun with Force choking and electrocuting enemies, I certainly favor 
 dark Jedi powers. You won't be using anything but the lightsaber once you get it in the 3rd level, 
 and this renders the other weapons obsolete with the exception of the sniper rifle - bad design 
 here. If that's the way it's going to be, Lucasarts should've just made a more Jedi-like game instead 
 of a gun-toting one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rmcg2006xp
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 17, 2005 4:58 am PT
Review:  The Graphics are the only glitch in this game but for those who just love a fast smooth game packed 
 with everything in any action game this is a must-get. 
  For those of us who love Star Wars this game must be in our collection, it is a brilliant game 
 which is in a class of its own.
  
  In terms of story-mode this game wipes the floor with all the other Star Wars games exc. K O T 
 O R.
  
  In multiplayer mode this amazing games lets you duel your friends with complex blasters or fight 
 team against team with honourable, traditional light sabers.
  
  My Best Game... thanks LucasArts. You should be proud.
  
  Ryan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Forcecaster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 5:39 am PT
Review:  At the first time I was really happy to get a new Star Wars game. The menu is simple, but still 
 immersive. In the beginning of the game we are just a simple man as the others. And it is a really 
 good idea, that we must learn the ways of the Force to be able to acomplish our missions. The graphic 
 is really good compare to the original Quake 3 Engine, the whole area is in 3D, and everything's 
 live. All the consoles are flashing, and sometimes we must use one of them to open a door, or just 
 to shutdown some defense systems. The only problem what has really make me "scared" is the facial 
 animation. But in all other cases the Quake 3 engine has bring the game to the top. The sounds 
 are good too. We really can hear everything. We hear the footsteps, we can hear the doors, the 
 Stormtroopers, we can watch what they're talking about, and we can hear the noise of our Lightsaber. 
 I really think this is the only PC game now in the Star Wars Galaxy, which truly shows us the acts 
 of a Jedi Knight. The only trouble with it is the nu, ber of the Force powers, there aren't so much. 
 We have the core powers and some more, but we know that the Force is much bigger than this. But 
 at the end I can say this was a really good game in 2002, and it's still a very good game now too, 
 and will make the fans and the non-fans happy to play again as Kyle Katarn as a Jedi Knight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jabbawocky04
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 15, 2005 8:32 am PT
Review:  I had waited for the Jedi Knight series to redeem it self after the alright but not great Mysteries 
 of the Sith and it came in the form of Star Wars: Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast. You have returned 
 as Kyle Katarn (by the way Mysteries of the Sith is no longer in the true timeline so no Mara Jade 
 etc) who has given up the force after almost giving up to the dark side of the force but works 
 for the New Republic as a mercenary against the Imperial Remnants (no longer an Empire) . After 
 a few missions and a turn of events Kyle is forced to recall the force and hunt down a new sect 
 of Dark Jedi. The graphics are good and an improvement from Dark Forces 2. The lightsaber is much 
 easier to control this time round and can make for some decent battles. The Star Wars sounds are 
 there which is nice. The good/bad endings are still missing and there is only a multiplayer to 
 play after you are finished with the game. This get my full approval and I cannot wait for the 
 next one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: villageidiot405
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 11, 2005 10:17 am PT
Review:  Being a major star wars fan i tend to like star wars games for just.... being star wars. this game 
 has to be one of my FAVORITES of all time. Great story line, long levels, loads of weapons (including 
 guns and lightsaber) . The over all feel of the game is just right. It can also be very very challenging 
 especially on Jedi Master (very hard) mode. you get to travel to many star wars places some you've 
 seen others maybe you've just heard about. I URGE.... NO I BEG YOU... EVERYONE HAS TO PLAY THIS 
 GAME... my friends and i always enjoy playing multiplayer... so much fun... capture the flag, lightsaber 
 duels, and one called jedi master where there is one lightsaber in the middle of the map... everyone 
 tries to get it usually including about 20 bots and once you get it you have to fight to the death 
 being a jedi for as long as possible.. it is sooooo fun... dont take my word for it... YOU MUST 
 TRY IT YOURSELF 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trendkill351
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 5, 2005 1:56 pm PT
Review:  this game delvers the best star wars experience light saber wise and force wise. this is a must 
 have game for all star wars pc gamers and fps gamers. the first few levels are a little plain but 
 still fun, but when you get your light saber and force powers the games fun kicks in at the max. 
 it has standard PC shooter controls which makes it easy to play. in the game you play as kyle katarn, 
 a merc for the republic who in the last game gave up his force powers in fear of turning to the 
 dark side. after a series of strange events couse you to reobtain his weapon and his powers, you 
 go on a mission to help save the galaxy from the sith. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NickE189
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2005 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast was the first game in this series that i played, and i probably wouldn't 
 have bought it, had it not been in the pre-owned games section at EB. And now i ask "Why would 
 you give up this amazing game as sell it to an electronics store!"
  This game was visually stunning for it's age, and was filled with great game-play and included 
 features that i loved, such as the dark ad light side choice. I enjoyed the variety of weapons 
 and force powers, and that freedom of control, offered by many modern games such as Half-life 2 
 and Halo. 
  I was very impressed by the game-play, thus the perfect score of 10 in that category. I enjoy a 
 1st person RPG-Shooter, that you can play long enough that you become the character you play.
 
  Wonderful game that gives hours and hours of fun and multiple paths to take. This has gone into 
 my Gaming Greats, alongside Halo, Half-Life 2, Trespasser, KOTOR, and others. Loved It!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 26, 2005 7:57 am PT
Review:  I love the storyline to this game. It brings you in and leaves you wanting more. The sassy attitude 
 of Kyle and the strong attitude of Jan provides a good balance of character emotions for a computer 
 game. Plus, you have to like that they brought Luke into the story.
  
  The game itself is great because of the jedi fighting moves. How many of you ever wanted to push 
 a storm trooper off a cliff or hold an imperial in mid-air by the throat or lightning strike another 
 jedi? The opportunities are endless. Plus, the random conversation of the imperials before you 
 come into battle view can be amusing. The graphics are pretty good, though there are a few problems 
 with the camera causing walls to disappear.
  
  The multiplayer support is great. You can go on and play against a bunch of computer jedi or face 
 off online with people all across the world. It is fun to just fight with lightsabers and jedi 
 powers.
  
  This is definitely worth buying, though there have been updates with the KOTOR series. Not having 
 played those, you may want to compare them first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speedy_amy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 20, 2005 12:06 pm PT
Review:  I think there is one thing that people will all agree on: Jedi Knight: Jedi Outcast is nothing 
 like Dark Forces II or Mysteries of the Sith. After going back to playing MOTS again, I found that 
 not only are the graphics way better (and should be, given the difference in years) but the controls 
 and gameplay are much simpler to learn. Force Jump is an especially easy one to pick up quick. 
 
  
  What some players may find even more fun than single player is multiplayer. While a lot of matches 
 can consist of nothing more than chaotic Jedi hacking away at whoever gets in their way, there 
 are a few modes that can be more challenging. The one I like the best is Capture the Flag. Though 
 this seems a bit too easy at first, given the right experienced players, it can become quite a 
 difficult game to win. These games are most suitable for human players and not bots. Bots are fun 
 for beginners and good if you just like to win without much of a challenge, but the more you learn 
 how to play, the more dumb the bots seem to get. Luckily, these bots do have a difficulty level 
 so once you get better at the game, you can bump it up for more of a challenge. 
  
  One thing certainly worth noting is all the mods, maps, and skins you can download for this game! 
 There aren't as many as their used to be since the release of Jedi Academy, but there are still 
 some very good mods to be found. There is one exception: no bot support. If you intend to play 
 downloaded maps with bots, make sure you know whether they have bot support. Without it all they 
 do is jump around like idiots making them very hard to kill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spaulding257
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 20, 2005 10:48 am PT
Review:  Awsome gameplay. Well let me break it down for you. The single player campain maode is fun, run 
 around dicing peoples legs, arms and other body parts off. In my opinion, how to take off some 
 stress from work or school. Besides that the multiplayer is amazing. There are tons of mod maps 
 you can download to expand the multiplayer experiance. Besides that the overall gameplay is incredable 
 one of the best. I would recommend this game to any star wars fan. Although there is the new addition 
 to the series Jedi Academy i would still pick up a copy of this just for an addition to your collection. 
 Its definatly worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dominic_daluz
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 16, 2005 1:11 am PT
Review:  This game was fun. The graphics are good, so is the sound. The gameplay is great BUT only in some 
 parts. In the beginnig, you have no force powers and you are simply some guy with a gun. After 
 playing awhile (the lightsaber battles are worth waiting for) you earn some force powers and a 
 lightsaber. This is where the fun really begins! No 2 lightsaber duels are the same in this game 
 that's for sure! The guns are okay and so are the characters.... The story is okay too, you can 
 also kind of predict also what is going to happen in the end... there are no plot twists as nice 
 as the one in Castlevania: Aria of Sorrow... I do not recommend buying this game, a rent would 
 be sufficient enough to explore the entire game... One last thing... the gameplay can sometimes 
 be frustrating because of all the switches you have to press throughout the game. Overall, I liked 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j_unit489
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 11, 2005 11:57 am PT
Review:  STORYLINE: the story line is awesome. you start on a wierd planet as kyle katarn armed with a bryar 
 pistol. you fight your way to becoming a jedi, and once you complete the jedi trials you get a 
 lightsaber! the story is the main feature of the game besides multiplayer.
  
  GRAPHICS: graphics are great, even for an older game. awesome shooting physics, and well, picturesque 
 levels. although the graphics are lacking this game deserves a 8 for graphics because on release 
 date it had the best graphics in town
  
  GAMEPLAY: awesome. lightsaber combat is very fun! gun play is cool too! especially when you get 
 the good guns like the repeator. cheats make the gameplay even better. it has a difficult campaign 
 so theres always room to enter a little god mode cheat. or you can recieve all weapons including 
 the.... BRYAR PISTOL!!! just kidding, that thing sucks. you get the lightsaber. it is very good. 
 also you can level jump, spawn enemies including the last boss, and spawn allies if you want a 
 little help in the story mode.
  
  SOUND: theres nothing better than the hum of the lightsaber. it sounds like a hemi engine... beautifull. 
 sound is great. you can overhear enemies as they talk among eachother. this sound makes gameplay 
 jump to another level as it makes you feel as if you were in the action.
  
  CONCLUSION: this is a must buy considering the fact that its like 20 bucks! i highly recommend 
 it for star wars nuts (like me) and newbies alike. after you play this buy the next one, the story 
 continues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mindaugasx
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 7, 2005 6:10 am PT
Review:  I think that this game can be played a long time and it will still be interesting. I have defeated 
 the game maybe 10 or more times. The game is quite easy, so by loading it again and again you may 
 pass all areas without lossing even half of your armor. There are a lot of secret areas and I haven`t 
 found all of them yet. When I`ve got bored I have started to play multiplayer where you may chalange 
 other players on the net and see who`s the Jedi Master in 7 kinds of games.
  Good things: 1. A long play time
  2. Interesting campaign
  3. Little requirments
  4. Good 
 graphics
  5. Great duels
  6. Very different weapons
  Bad things: 1. You may find some stupid bugs
  2. Not much of the music.
  
  I advise you to 
 try it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacardin
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 3, 2005 2:12 pm PT
Review:  When Jedi Outcast was released, it was receiving rave reviews everywhere. Never before had saber 
 combat been like this. It felt real, the AI responded realistically; you could now actually duel 
 an intelligent AI in Jedi saber combat, with a force power system that actually worked the way 
 you wanted it to.
  
  First off, the single player mode on this game rocks. You have a strong storyline that leaves off 
 where Jedi Knight left off. You are given a challenge in the beginning since you don't yet have 
 a lightsaber. Once you get your Force skills, you must complete a Jedi obstacle course in order 
 to get a lightsaber. Single player gets a 10 all the way for gameplay. And Desann is quite difficult 
 at the end, believe me...
  
  Now, we go to the multiplayer. With 3 lightsaber stances to pick from, you'll need to master all 
 3, or at least two because your opponent is sure to vary every once in awhile. For masters, blue 
 is almost useless because it can't penetrate anything and always gets blocked. Yellow is a nice, 
 happy medium but tends to be a little too slow for what it does. Red is power, and very slow. The 
 game also includes lots of variations on traditional multiplayer games like Jedi Master duels and 
 Team FFAs, which adds much to the value.
  
  Now why do I knock down the 9 with my tilt at an 8? There are a couple reasons this game was an 
 A- for me and not an A. I have been active in a JK group for a long time, 7 years now. When JO 
 came out, I found it very slow, very hard to pull off the moves, and not as much fun as JK. I still 
 feel that way about JO, but fortunately, JA had just enough refinements to offset this. So in many 
 ways, this game was a step down from JK for me, even with the far more intelligent engine. It is 
 still a great game and far better than 90% of the shooters out there with its puzzles and intelligent 
 saber combat.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Port5
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 17, 2005 6:23 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast is one of the best action games to date. The AI is perfect, 
 the game is long, and doesn't leave you hanging, has an excellent storyline, and you want to keep 
 playing right until the end. The story is the main attraction of this game. The story is very engaging 
 and goes right along with the gameplay. Your lightsaber moves are very realistic to the movies 
 and it allows you to use force powers. By the end you have all of them. The weapons look good, 
 the graphics are great, there really isn't anything else to say. It's an excellent game. There's 
 nothing else to say for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: montzag
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 11, 2005 7:07 pm PT
Review:  If you like wielding lightsabers, you need this game. This is a sequel to Dark Forces, which I 
 love. Kyle Katarn is a great character and he is back again. Interesting storyline this time too, 
 and it's able to involve Luke and Lando, so there are nice character cameos there. The levels aren't 
 great, but I do like playing some of them alot and I find myself replaying them alot. They did 
 a good job. Once you get you force powers and lightsaber though, this is the best jedi game I've 
 ever played. 
  There is a nice little cheat for decapitations and dismemberment that makes the game much more 
 real and so much fun to play. Check this out if you are a star wars fan. It starts off kind of 
 slow being a typical action FPS, but once the force gets involved, this game rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sirian808
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 7, 2005 4:16 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: 10/10
  I have to say, I was completely spoiled by the huge assortment of levels, missions and characters. 
 There could have been more weapons, but all of the Dark and Light Force powers make up for that. 
 I cannot emphasize enough the gigantic number of missions. They probably even get close to a hundred. 
 What really won me over about this game, however, was the awesome multiplayer version. There are 
 a few different modes to play as, and you can divide teams up into the classic Red and Blue by 
 Force powers... Red can only use the destructive force of the Dark Side, while Blue gets the healing 
 powers of the Light Side. You can also play a mode where you pick up Holocrons of either Side to 
 obtain that Force power. The game also includes free online multiplayer, a huge plus for gamers 
 who think the computer opponents are easy. A word of caution, however... I thought I was good until 
 I went to the Internet, at which point I was treated as an inept Padawan.
  
  GRAPHICS: 8/10
  While the weapon and level graphics were good, the character s needed some work. 
 Honestly, the graphics in this game were almost to the point where I could've seen them on the 
 original PlayStation running at a lower framerate... almost.
  
  SOUND: 9/10
  Sound is always a hard one to rate because in most games it doesn't play a big part. Jedi Knight 
 II, however, is another case. The background music all sounds like Star Wars, and the weapon sounds 
 have that Star Wars-ish feel. The voices are pretty good, too.
  
  VALUE: 10/10
  This is another one that has a ton of replay value due to its great multiplayer modes. If you are 
 the type that would rather play a game supported by story at all times, this is probably not the 
 one for you, since the multiplayer is all hack, slash 'n shoot.
  
  TILT: 9/10
  I had a great time with this. Whether you are a gamer looking for a good game (me) or a Star Wars 
 aficionado (not me) , this will satisfy your need to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilverEdge000
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 13, 2005 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars games have been going down the tubes and I blame all those stupid flying games. In Jedi 
 Knight II: Jedi Outcast you play as a Jedi in both single player and multiplayer game modes. It 
 is a lot like the old Dark Forces games, but with new features and greatly improved praphics.
 
  
  In the single player perspective you play as Mercenary (and former Jedi) Kyle Katarn. For the first 
 2 or 3 levels you carry out special assignments given to you by the Rebel leader. Your mercenary 
 compaion Jan is killed by a sith on one of your assignments. You, Kyle, seek out revenge of your 
 best friend's death by going back to the Valley of the Jedi, where a lot of force power generates 
 and was once a battleground of the Jedi to protect the Valley. Kyle is the only one alive who knows 
 the location of the Valley.
  
  You then seek your lightsaber from the Jedi Academy. You present yourself to Master Luke Skywalker 
 (just to let you know it's 7 years after the Return of the Jedi movie) to request your lightsaber 
 back. But Luke won't let you have your lightsaber until you train enough to be able to use it properly. 
 This is when you get your force powers such as force push, pull, jump, and speed. Other force powers 
 become available to you as you progress through the game and you become a little more powerful 
 with each passing level.
  
  Jedi Outcast uses lightsaber slashing and dueling, as well as some FPS action. The lightsaber battles 
 are pretty innovative (knowing that this was before KOTOR) . You have three different lightsaber 
 styles to master and there are different moves that you must learn.
  
  The multiplayer is probably the only reason to get the game. While the single player is pretty 
 good, it won't satisfy even the most dedicated Star Wars fans. Dueling computers is not exactly 
 fun so you get to test out your skills against other players in the multiplayer. People get butthurt 
 if you kill them if their lightsaber is not out or if they are chatting (but I do it anyway) . Some 
 servers even let you use cheats, and there is one multiplayer-only cheat that lets you use a double 
 sided lightsaber. Not many servers let you use cheats though. Dueling is pretty fun but it can 
 be a pain if you can't learn how to kill people fast enough. Losing a duel is very aggrovating, 
 but sometimes it's the fun you got out of it that counts.
  
  Overall the game is a good Jedi experience and should definently be checked out (the game probably 
 costs around $10 now anyway) .
  
  Gameplay - 9 - The FPS is here so those of you who like that will have it, then there's the lightsaber 
 battles which are pretty cool. You feel really powerful though against people who just have guns 
 (deflecting every laser and cutting their arms off while only losing 1 health) . The saber battles 
 are alirght in single player but the multiplayer is where the game really shines.
  
  Graphics - 8 - Seem very dated for some reason and the volumetric shadows aren't as great as they 
 could be.
  
  Sound - 9 - The lightsaber sounds are very well done and sound like the authentic thing. The force 
 powers sound pretty generic and aren't that great but they serve a good purpose. The music is classic 
 but needs to be turned off after a good hour in a muliplayer server (I listen to Episode III music 
 while I play) .
  
  Value - 8 - Single player lasts but isn't too special. Multiplayer is great but can get old after 
 you play in ffa_bespin for too long. There are many different mulitplayer modes: FFA, Team FFA, 
 Holocron, Team Holocron, Capture the Flag (Team) , and Duel.
  
  Tilt - 10 - A great Jedi experience.
  
  Overall -=9.0=- A great game but some minor flaws might 
 push you away from the game. Other wise it's a great Jedi experience that should not be missed! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Achilles75
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 30, 2005 4:35 am PT
Review:  The Jedi Knight series has been the promised land of Star Wars games ever since it was created. 
 Why you ask? For the simple reason that the games are FUN! That's right folks a Star Wars game 
 that's fun. 
  Anyway though let's move on to the game itself. Star Wars: Jedi Knight 2; Jedi Outcast is a great 
 game starring everybodies favorite bearded hero Kyle Katarn. That's right it's time to once again 
 wonder how in the world he keeps that beard so well trimmed, despite being involved in countless 
 lightsaber battles. Aside from his super-moose Kyle brings along with him a hefty arsenal of weaponry 
 and Force powers. At the begginning of the game you are blind to the Force, meaning that all the 
 foes that come at you, will have to be gunned down from afar, as opposed to the closer (and far 
 more fun) lightsaber combat. However even the gunplay in this game is done well and the variety 
 of weapons that you can pick up will leave you salivating for the next new weapon. Finally though, 
 after getting the ever loving snot beat out of you by a mysterious dark Jedi, you go back to the 
 Jedi temple and pick up both your force powers and your lightsaber. It is here that the game becomes 
 a whole lot more fun, for the simple reason that as great as it is shooting the stink out of your 
 enemies from afar, hacking your enemies into itty bitty pieces from up close is just so much more 
 rewarding. The storyline of the game is pretty run in the mill but when the gameplay and graphics 
 are just so dang cool; the story could star my Great Aunt Helga and people would still by it. 
 
  In case you hadn't figured it out this is a great game, buy the game, have some fun, and for Pete's 
 sake loose the beard before somebody slashes it off!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrostHertz
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 4, 2005 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Jedi knight 2: Jedi Outcast is a great game, the single player part is very long an entertaining. 
 You will follow Kyle Kartan and Jane, you will self play as kyle and using the known weapons, lightsabers 
 and forcepowers of the star wars universe. The game is quiet hard and you can sometimes be trapped 
 in a room for 20 minutes just to find a little hole or something you might be able to crawl into. 
 The story is also good and you will of course also fight sith's and dark jedi's. There is also 
 many combat tecniques to learn and you can also choose your own saber-technique from lightning 
 fast to deadly slow.
  You will also be able to choose and upgrade the forcepowers of your own choice (light or dark) .
 
  The multiplayer part is the best part of the game. With a wide choice of maps, character models, 
 forcepowers (both dark and light) and sabercolours, you can create the character of your own and 
 make your own battle. You can choose models from Luke Skywalker to a Stormtrooper or a sith, you 
 can also find hidden models on cheatsites. 
  So get going make your own Jedi/Sith clan and fight others.
  Overall, this is a great game. I 
 will not tell you too much because i don't want to spoil it for you. So let's get to the Attributes:
 
  
  Gameplay: Forcepowers, lightsabers, Jedi's and Sith's, what more could you wish in a Star wars 
 game? This game just got it all, the single player, the multiplayer, this game rules it all. 9 
 out of 10
  
  Graphics: The graphics are awesome, of course it depends on which graphics card you got, but if 
 you got Geforce 3 or higher, it will be great. 9 out of 10
  
  Sound: The known music, the known laser sounds and best of all, the known lightsaber sounds, this 
 game got it all. 10 out of 10
  
  --That was the attributes, now let's get to the stats --
  
  Difficulty: Hard - The only really hard thing in the game is when you sometimes can't find 
 out what to do and where to go. The saber battles are sometimes hard too.
  
  Learning Curve: 0 to 30 Minutes - If you just know which buttons to push, the game is easy enough 
 to controll, but the different moves and saber slashes can take longer time.
  
  Time Spent Playing, to Date: 20 to 40 Hours - Yes, the singleplayer is long, but the multiplayer 
 can hold your attention longer, you will never get tired of it.
  
  Classification: Rocks - This game just simply rocks.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 043030
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 30, 2005 5:26 am PT
Review:  Jedi Outcast is part of the Jedi Knight series, but this game easily surpasses all of its predecessors.
 
  
  Graphics are stunning, with good accompanying sound and music from the original score. However, 
 Jedi Outcast's forte is its gameplay.
  
  Jedi Outcast continues the story of Kyle Katarn, who forsook the Jedi path and became a mercenary 
 with his partner Jan Ors. The story of Jedi Outcast is compelling, with some truly memorable moments. 
 
  
  Unfortunately the first few levels of Jedi Outcast are relatively boring, as you do not have force 
 powers or a lightsaber. However, when you obtain a lightsaber the game becomes very, very fun.
 
  
  Force powers are great in their own right, with lightning, mind tricks and force choke among the 
 powers, but lightsaber battles are fantastic. Fighting with the lightsaber has been designed very 
 well, and is easy to pick up but takes time to master. Fighting enemy Dark Jedi is exciting, and 
 it is particularly cool when you or the enemy dies and a 'bullet time' mode is initiated.
  
  Jedi Outcast is another game which no collector should be missing. 
  
  Excellent.
  
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 14, 2005 7:41 pm PT
Review:  I am a big fan of the Star Wars universe, complete with my Darth Vader and C3PO figure cases that 
 are full of first run Star Wars action figures. So when I got around to finally playing Jedi Knight 
 II: Jedi Outcast, it wasn't going to take much to make me like the game. The game is good. Really 
 good. But has its moments when you want to uninstall it pronto. 
  
  Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast takes place after the events in Dark Forces II: Jedi Knight. Kyle 
 Kataan has hung up his lightsaber and has gotten back into the Mercenary trade to make ends meet. 
 He is also back working with Jan Ors, his lovely partner in crime. You are asked by the Federation 
 to investigate a planet that has some strange communications transmissions. Upon arrival, you stumble 
 head first into a plot to revive the Imperial government. Not good. Your chase will take you to 
 several locations and will bring you back into the Jedi fold. The story is pretty straight forward 
 and does not offer too many complicated twists and turns. It does help flesh out your missions 
 and lets you see the results of your labor. As you get going, you will develop force powers that 
 will really help you on your goals. For instance, having trouble killing a Dark Jedi, use Force 
 grab and drop him over a cliff. Those are the kind of touches that make this game so great.
  
  Graphically the game is stunning for its release date. And the graphics have held up quite 
 nicely over the years. As a matter of fact, the graphics now run ultra smooth on my setup at the 
 highest settings. Since it was built with a modified version of the Quake engine, there are some 
 minor clipping issues and other graphical anomolies (bodies floating in mid-air) that are common 
 to the Quake II engine. But they do not detract from the game. You also get to see your lightsaber 
 do actual damage on the environment. Slash a wall, see the results. It isn't fancy or permanent, 
 but it was cool.
  
  Sound is fantastic as it always is with the Star Wars games. When you have access to the Skywalker 
 Labs Sound Studio for sound effects and John Williams musical score, what more could you ask for. 
 The weapons, sabers, explosions, etc all sound full and make you feel like you are in the game. 
 The only real complaint here is that sometimes I had some stuttering during checkpoint markers, 
 but that is rather superficial. Overall, the sound is great and helps bring you into the illusion.
 
  
  My biggest complaint about the game and the reason it gets a ding is that sometimes the game is 
 just hard. At certain points of the game, I felt overwhelmed. Completely overwhelmed. I played 
 it on normal difficulty, but then again twitch games are not my most skilled category. However, 
 it should not be easier to kill the end game protagonist than certain levels fromt he beginning 
 of the game. I had to repeat so many sections because of overwhelming displays of strength by the 
 opposition. I also had a big time beef towards the end of the game. There was a cave that you had 
 to find to proceed that took two days to fine because it was just completely hidden. And there 
 was no hint as to where to find it. I don't know what Raven was thinking, but I feel that a lot 
 of people probably uninstalled the game at this point, because I know that I almost did. After 
 three FAQ files, I finally found it. 
  
  Overall, the game is a great success. It has a good story and some action. And who doesn't want 
 to swing a lighsaber around and do some damage. I just wish that the game wasn't so overly challenging 
 on rare occasions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maximus_2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Jedi Outcast, though called '2' is already the 3rd installment in this series.
  It started out with Dark Forces, which was a pretty standard FPS (from what I've seen) , kinda Doom 
 or Duke Nukem style, but this time with a Star Wars theme.
  Then there came Dark Forces 2: Jedi Knight (Which was the first one I played and had lots of fun 
 with) . Here Kyle Katarn first got his force powers and light saber.
  
  Now Katarn is back in action and he starts the same way he does in Dark Forces 2, forceless.
 
  Like in the previous game you have to first play a few levels before you'll get your force powers 
 back, and even when you do you learn them as you progress through the game.
  
  In my opinion it's an inferior FPS. The first rifle you have has too slow a firing rate and the 
 second one has a better fire rate, but the accuracy is too low (imo they went overboard with that) . 
 Other weapons you get have to same problem; most of them don't shoot fast enough. Though this is 
 not a bad thing, for this game is not meant to be a true FPS.
  
  Once you get your lightsaber the game will get better, because that is what they focused on. It 
 is sort of strange how Katarns defense is near-perfect from the moment he uses it, but imo this 
 is only fun.
  
  Levels are nicely designed, they look very nice and places like Nar-Shaddaa really give you the 
 feeling you're in the Star Wars universe.
  Also places like the starship you get on and the Jedi Academy and stuff are very impressively Star 
 Wars-like.
  
  Lightsaber battles are strange things. They can end in a flash (both in your favor and not) , or 
 they can take ages. You'll fight some enemies and chop 'em down with a single swing, you'll be 
 chopped down the same way yourself. But you'll also meet some that'll give you some long and very 
 often very damaging fights.
  
  This game also has some very nice other features. Stepping into a gun-turret might not be extremely 
 special in this game, because it happens often enough, but it's still fun. There's also one level 
 where you're not to be seen, and in one room that also means disabling your lightsaber.
  And there is one part where you get to walk around in an ATST (also great fun) .
  These kind of 
 things also make the game lots of fun.
  
  The only thing that I think they really REALLY messed up with, is the cutscenes.
  In Dark Forces 
 2 they had cool animated cutscenes, but here they switched to gameplay movies, which is imo a really 
 big mistake, because the cutscenes were one of my favorite parts of the DF2 game.
  
  Sound ofcourse is very good, blasters sound like blasters, Tie-Fighters flying by sound like Tie-Fighters, 
 the music is made up of the always-recognizable John Williams symphonies.
  
  All-in-all this is a great game I had great fun and if you like 3rd-person action games, or if 
 you like Star Wars, you'll have fun too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2005 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Although it's often said your success depends on a good first impression, Jedi Knight II: Jedi 
 Outcast succedes despite that. The first hour or two feel like nothing more than your run of the 
 mill FPS/Action game, but it is the hours after that that set this game apart. A fairly long and 
 entertaining singleplayer campaign and an addicting multiplayer aspect come together nicely to 
 make this game up there with the best of 'em.
  
  The presentation, though wondeful, never seems to really grasp the Star Wars experience. Everything 
 is there from the graphics to the dead on sounds yet something still feels missing. As I said, 
 the graphics are right on and what you would expect to see in a Star Wars game. Sounds feel like 
 they were taken straight from the movies and music as well.
  
  Jedi Outcast is, as you know, an action/FPS. You'll have many of the weapons seen in the movies 
 at your disposal, from the Wookie Bowcaster to the Lightsabre. All the weapons are very balanced 
 allowing you to use just about any weapon and still do very well. Most weapons are what you would 
 find in any other FPS though. You've got a rocket launcher, a sniping weapon, a 'flak' weapon, 
 a gun that fires like a mini-gun, etc... Nothing really innovative but there is a nice selection 
 to choose from. If you've played any other FPSs you'll be able to jump right into this game with 
 very little adjustment needed to your playing style.
  
  And of course, what would a Star Wars game be without Lightsabres? Fortunantly the Lightsabres 
 are very well done in Jedi Outcast. They are very powerful in the hands of a skilled player yet 
 at the same time not overpowering. There are three different stances with the Lightsabre so you 
 can use whatever fits your playing style. Damaging but slow, Quick but light damage, or somewhere 
 in the middle. Lightsabre battles are, by far, the most fun you'll have in this game. Some will 
 last upwards of 2 minutes against a skilled opponent, while others will be as quick as a couple 
 of seconds as you run through a less skilled player. While Lightsabre duels won't exactly be movie-esque, 
 they are still fun all the same. Instead of parrying and searching for an opening face to face, 
 you'll be jumping, rolling around, and trying to trick your oponent so you can get a quick hit 
 to the side or back.
  
  Hand-in-hand with the Light sabre are the Force Powers, the 'spells' in the Star Wars universe. 
 There are quite a few powers and each has 3 levels of profeciency. Obviously, the higher you get 
 in one power, the more effective it is. There is a nice variety in powers, some allowing you to 
 deal direct damage, some allowing you to heal yourself or teamates, and some affecting the game 
 in a less direct way. In the single player campaign you'll learn new powers at the end of each 
 mission so you won't have the freedom to design your character to be a healer or fighter, etc... 
 instead you'll be more of a well rounded character which could also be called... a Jedi Master!
 
  
  In Multiplayer, however, you'll have a certain amount of points to spend on Force Powers to customize 
 your character to your liking. You can focus on direct damage and mow down crowds of your enemies, 
 or focus on being a healer, etc... There really is not that many powers to customize your character 
 with, but it is still fun none-the-less. The standard game types, as well as some variants to those, 
 are what you'll find in the Multiplayer game. Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Free For All, Capture 
 the Flag, Tournament, etc... Still plenty for you to do, and fun at that, but nothing really original.
 
  
  All in all Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast is a superb Action-FPS in all areas. A great but slow to 
 start single player campaign and a surprisingly fun multiplayer aspect all make this game worth 
 it's $9.99 price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squeekikleen
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 27, 2005 5:42 am PT
Review:  Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast is by far one of the best games made using the Star Wars license. 
 It starts off as a conventional FPS and uses some of the weapons we are familiar with from the 
 Star Wars universe. This first portion of the game is done quite well and will keep any FPS fan 
 immersed but it is when you get the lightsabre that the game really picks up. I dont recall a 
 game where the melee attack was interesting and easily becomes the weapon of choice. The only problem 
 is that once you get the lightsabre you might never bother with the other weapons and effectively 
 becomes a third-person game. It gets better with the use of force powers and includes all the standard 
 powers youd expect such as push, pull and mind trick. More notably youll get some fun powers 
 like force choke (my favourite) .
  
  In addition to a fabulous single-player, the multiplayer is also worth mentioning. It is also done 
 with the same care as the single-player and should keep gamers busy after completing the game. 
 Jedi Knight II is definitely worth anyones attention even if youre not that into Star Wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyuSlash
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 7, 2005 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Jedi Outcast, though called '2' is already the 3rd installment in this series.
  It started out with Dark Forces, which was a pretty standard FPS (from what I've seen) , kinda Doom 
 or Duke Nukem style, but this time with a Star Wars theme.
  Then there came Dark Forces 2: Jedi Knight (Which was the first one I played and had lots of fun 
 with) . Here Kyle Katarn first got his force powers and light saber.
  
  Now Katarn is back in action and he starts the same way he does in Dark Forces 2, forceless.
 
  Like in the previous game you have to first play a few levels before you'll get your force powers 
 back, and even when you do you learn them as you progress through the game.
  
  In my opinion it's an inferior FPS. The first rifle you have has too slow a firing rate and the 
 second one has a better fire rate, but the accuracy is too low (imo they went overboard with that) . 
 Other weapons you get have to same problem; most of them don't shoot fast enough. Though this is 
 not a bad thing, for this game is not meant to be a true FPS.
  
  Once you get your lightsaber the game will get better, because that is what they focused on. It 
 is sort of strange how Katarns defense is near-perfect from the moment he uses it, but imo this 
 is only fun.
  
  Levels are nicely designed, they look very nice and places like Nar-Shaddaa really give you the 
 feeling you're in the Star Wars universe.
  Also places like the starship you get on and the Jedi Academy and stuff are very impressively Star 
 Wars-like.
  
  Lightsaber battles are strange things. They can end in a flash (both in your favor and not) , or 
 they can take ages. You'll fight some enemies and chop 'em down with a single swing, you'll be 
 chopped down the same way yourself. But you'll also meet some that'll give you some long and very 
 often very damaging fights.
  
  This game also has some very nice other features. Stepping into a gun-turret might not be extremely 
 special in this game, because it happens often enough, but it's still fun. There's also one level 
 where you're not to be seen, and in one room that also means disabling your lightsaber.
  And there is one part where you get to walk around in an ATST (also great fun) .
  These kind of 
 things also make the game lots of fun.
  
  The only thing that I think they really REALLY messed up with, is the cutscenes.
  In Dark Forces 
 2 they had cool animated cutscenes, but here they switched to gameplay movies, which is imo a really 
 big mistake, because the cutscenes were one of my favorite parts of the DF2 game.
  
  Sound ofcourse is very good, blasters sound like blasters, Tie-Fighters flying by sound like Tie-Fighters, 
 the music is made up of the always-recognizable John Williams symphonies.
  
  All-in-all this is a great game I had great fun and if you like 3rd-person action games, or if 
 you like Star Wars, you'll have fun too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nohabs
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 29, 2004 3:01 pm PT
Review:  I have played the older Jedi games and became a fan of the star wars series. Outcast is a huge 
 leap forward in graphics, sound, just about every area of the game. Yet it maintains a lot of the 
 core appeal. Similar game play and familar weapons, enemies and of course the light saber fights 
 are the best way to go. If your'e looking for a slightly older game this is a good one for you. 
 It does not have high computer demands and is quick to get up to speed with it.
  I would recommend this game even if it is your first star wars game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostHunterUk
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2004 10:07 pm PT
Review:  First I must say this is a great game and there haven't been many great star wars games around 
 that are 1st/3rd person shooters.
  
  I say this because it is a challenging game which actually feels like you are in a star wars world. 
 I played this game for months trying to complete certain missions and I found this fun because 
 there are not that many good games out ther like that.
  
  The graphics are good and solid which make the game more realistic also sound is good with realistic 
 lightsaber and gun noises etc...
  
  For the story it is good but nothing more. It does capture your attention and makes you want to 
 play on more.
  Even though you dont get your lightsaber straight away and do not learn your force powers straight 
 away there is plenty of action to get stuck into and it will keep you busy.
  
  However it isnt just the singleplayer what is great, the multiplayer is too
  
  Overall I feel 
 this is one of the best Star Wars game ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martlume
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 20, 2004 12:51 pm PT
Review:  The Jedi business & the Force thing make Jedi Knight one precious franchise. Fighting with a saber 
 that deflects shots and using force powers against a bunch of storm-troopers make for one of the 
 best moments in FPS-s ever, and the large scale Star Wars level architecture and occasional authentic 
 characters are real treats to its fans. However, there still remained plenty of room for improvements 
 for for Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast. It contained too many jumping puzzles for a Jedi game, Force 
 powers were not very well made use of (you gained powers automatically and did not need to use 
 many of them) , and saber duels with Reborn Jedis were largely games of chance. Matters were improved 
 in the next game Jedi Academy, where emphasis is very correctly put on personalization of the character 
 and on the sabers - you build up your own wanna-be Jedi, customizing his/her looks, light-sabers 
 (up to handles and color of the light, and you can have one in both hands or you can have a double-ended 
 saber!) and later in the game choosing between 4 additional light and dark side Force powers (there 
 are 8 core Force powers you have by default) , which will have an impact on how your last missions 
 will play out. Jedi Academy plays a lot like better parts of Jedi Outcast, plus the special sabres, 
 the Sense power (can see your opponents health, through the walls, secret areas) , and general all-around 
 improvements.
  
  18/20 - Based on : 20 HOURS
  4/4 PRODUCTION VALUES - Raven FPSs are always of first-rate quality. 
  4/4 ACCESSIBILITY - Light-saber 
 combat can be really complicated but there's really no need to learn it until you go multiplayer.
 
  4/4 PACING - Some say there's too much jumping, but I say it's pretty well-paced. In JKII there's 
 even a stealth level.
  3/4 INNOVATION - Most of the ideas of force and light-saber were introduced already in the Jedi 
 Knight game of 1997, but these two titles are advancing them just fine.
  3/4 IMMERSION - Is there while the game lasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RocketMasterH2F
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 5, 2004 11:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is so cool. The multiplayer is so cool. There's different types of multiplayer modes, but 
 I have to say for the pc version multiplayer is better. There is a small arsenal of weapons. Lightsaber 
 is really cool but you dont start out with it. there's a blaster rifle that is is cool. The characters 
 are weird, cool and mean (not all of them are like this) . This game is tough but fun and so cool. 
 Some levels can short, long, breathtaking and very cool. In the game you will meet some unique characters. 
 This is awesome so for al you Star Wars fans get this game and I'm sure you will be enjoyed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarsLander
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 18, 2004 4:31 am PT
Review:  Now that's more like it, we need more games of this quality. I've been waiting along time for a 
 really good Star Wars game. Jedi Outcast fills the void of sub-standard Games From Lucus-arts. 
 Although Raven did develop this game. So maybe sub-standard games fron lucus-arts will continue, 
 I hope not. However let's get on with Jedi outcast, how is it you say great, Grahics are awsome, 
 the Quake 3 engine has never looked better. Although I do have one minor complaint, I wish you 
 were allowed to pick what skills you want instead of them being picked for you. The original Jedi 
 Knight II allowed you to upgrade your own skill level after each level was completed, and depending 
 on how well you completed the level you could get more skill points to upgrade your character. 
 However that's no big deal the skills you do get are still really cool. Also I really like the 
 Kyle Katarn character, he has that cruff mersionary quality to him. Also he talks, kinda helps 
 develop the charcter alittle (hint) Half Life you know the muted Gorden Freeman. But getting back 
 to Jedi Outcast, sound great, gameplay top notch, and Story awsome. So final rulling buy this game 
 now if your a GAMER! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swamination
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 6, 2004 10:52 pm PT
Review:  I love Star Wars. I love this game, but it leaves me with some bitterness. I am fairly tired of 
 the Quake3 engine being reborn or "modified" from game to game. I sometimes feel like I am playing 
 a mod more than a fullblown game.
  
  This game's storyline is a bit weak, but is still fun. The levels present multiple opportunities 
 to use the Force in unique ways, and there are enough enemies to present a challenge. Multiplayer 
 games are a blast; this is a great LAN game. If you can spring for Jedi Academy, though, I'd put 
 my money there.
  
  Quake3 engine games are getting old. There have been better game engines out there that could have 
 allowed for better lighting effects and object manipulation. They did pretty good with what they 
 had, so it is still enjoyable. The sound is typical Star Wars, and the music enjoyable.
  
  This game is made obsolete by the same-engine, more-features sequel, Jedi Academy. I rate this 
 game slightly lower than its sequel, simply because of the lack of innovation by utilizing a more 
 modern engine available at the time of the making of this game. I think Lucasarts has a habit of 
 allowing games to be put out only to make a buck, and not to adhere to the original quality that 
 fans have come to expect of the series. I have faith that some of these newer games will change 
 that, with Battlefront and Republic Commando. We shall see.
  
  This is a cheap game now; most places will sell the PC version for $20. JA will set you back $30 
 at this time. The extra $10 is worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackie103
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2004 11:00 pm PT
Review:  Jedi Knight Outcast should be rated at the top beside Call of Duty, Far Cry, and
  Max Payne 2. For some reason this fast paced game has been overlooked for Lucas Arts. It should have 
 been the game of the year and quite a few other awards way back when.
  Fantastic Graphics, wonderful sound, quick saves. Are you listening Far Cry developers? Gameplay is 
 easily picked up in less than 20 minutes. My reviewed
  version had no glitchs or needed patchs like so many developers are putting on the shelves these 
 days. I reviewed this masterpiece of a game on Area 51's AMD64, ATI Graphics, Turtle Beach Sound Card 
 and a GateWay 700XL 2.4MHZ, NVIDIA GE-Force graphics cars, and Sound Blaster sound card. Absolutely 
 wonderful game
  which somehow has been overlooked by all the big game reviewers. This is one game I will not play 
 down the value. Its a step above Far Crys many glitchs and
  over rated statements. Great work Lucas Arts, please keep the StarWars comeing guys. Us women love 
 them to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: askme1now
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 21, 2004 3:25 pm PT
Review:  This is an okay Star Wars shooter with just flat-out terrific lightsaber combat. Graphics are wretched 
 in today's market (even Jedi Academy) , but the lightsaber fights still look very movie-like. More 
 importantly, practicing a few moves until you can do them on command makes the fights far more 
 interesting (even though you can usually cast Force Speed and hack most opponents down the simple 
 way if you're the simple type and you don't mind reloading a million times) . Unfortunately, multiplayer 
 saber combat is nowhere near as good looking and mostly degenerates into slash-fests. But things 
 like the gladiator-fight mods (e. g., better opponents getting dropped in faster and faster) add 
 weeks of fun. 
  
  This was one of the four games I played obsessively for months, the other three being Jagged Alliance 
 2, Warcraft III (multiplayer) , and Knights of the Old Republic (although an RPG shouldn't count) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woody_allen
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 9, 2004 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Jedi Outcast is the sequel to the best PC Star Wars game ever made, so it has alot to live up to. 
 The verdict? The best lightsaber combat ever used in a Star Wars game. The combat in the last game 
 was exciting, but moderately shallow. This game throws in a mess of combos and acrobatics to make 
 for exciting duels, especially with dark jedi. This is also what makes multiplay so much better 
 than in the last game (though it is not very original) . Unfortunately, the shooting stuff is mediocre, 
 which seems strange since the same people made Soldier of Fortune and Elite Force. The crosshair 
 is inaccurate, and you need to stand still to get a descent shot because you move way too fast. 
 The production values are pretty darn good. The visuals are detailed and maintain a good frame-rate 
 (even on my less than stellar 
  Geforce 2/1.25 Athlon processor setup) . The sound effects are even better, with some great sound 
 effects for your footsteps and weopons. However, while the game looks and sounds great in-engine, 
 the cut-scenes are pretty horendous. OK, maybe thats a little harsh, but the character models are 
 all blocky with stiff and emotionless faces. Also, the writing and acting are both sub-par, and 
 the story is generic. Even with an uninteresting story, however, the game is fun enough that you 
 will forgive it. Anyone who likes Star Wars will get a kick out of it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
