-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: JetFighter IV: Fortress America
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/jetfighter4fortressamerica/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 15, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.1, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 78 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: TalonSoft
Developer: Mission Studios
Genre: Jet Sim
Date:     Nov 8, 2000
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
JetFighter IV is a good choice for those who favor action over realism and even for hard-core sim 
 pilots who are looking for a change of pace. 

 The JetFighter series has long had a reputation for being light on realism but long on fun. Previous 
 games bearing the title have been just realistic enough to resemble true flight simulations and 
 have emphasized good graphics, fun mission objectives, and intense combat rather than exacting 
 technical detail. With JetFighter IV: Fortress America, Mission Studios has returned to the formula 
 that made JetFighter III a hit: to make the graphics good without compromising a fast frame rate 
 and to wrap the whole thing in frantic action. The result is a fun air combat game that doesn't 
 simulate much but should still provide the casual jet pilot with many hours of bandit hunting. 
   

  The premise behind JetFighter IV is that an alliance between Russia, China, and North Korea (called 
 "The Coalition") has been formed to challenge America's supremacy as the world's only superpower. 
 These countries then set about to attack California. It's your mission to stop them - and stop 
 them you can, in a large branching campaign and numerous individual scenarios. However, you can 
 fly only for the US armed forces; there's no opportunity to fly any Russian aircraft.   

  JetFighter IV lets you choose from three different flyable aircraft: the F/A-18 Hornet, the F-14 
 Tomcat, and the F-22 Raptor. While this may seem like a good variety of planes, the fact is that 
 all three aircraft basically fly the same using JetFighter IV's flight model. There is almost no 
 difference between the Tomcat, a large aircraft designed as a long-range antiaircraft missile platform 
 for fleet defense, and the nimble Raptor. In fact, the entire flight model is generous to the point 
 of not seeming very realistic at all. The aircraft seem to float rather than fly, and even when 
 the realism options - such as redouts and blackouts - are turned on, JetFighter IV's flight experience 
 seems even more artificial than those of its predecessors. The avionics in JetFighter IV are not 
 much more detailed than the flight models, and they leave you free to concentrate on lining up 
 your targets rather than worrying about your weapon mode.   

  JetFighter IV boasts photo-realistic terrain of the entire San Francisco Bay Area, including all 
 the familiar landmarks. There is an option to install a set of high-resolution textures from the 
 second CD for even more impressive visuals, but using these bumps up the hardware requirements. 
 Even without the high-res option, JetFighter IV looks very good, although it doesn't quite match 
 the gorgeous terrain standard set by Jane's USAF. The familiar surroundings serve to give JetFighter 
 IV a sense of context, which makes the missions that much more immersive and involving. Mission 
 Studios has also done an excellent job of making the game run well on midrange systems - you won't 
 have to turn down the graphical detail to get a good frame rate. Players with a wide variety of 
 hardware should be able to enjoy JetFighter IV's graphics.   

  The JetFighter series has always included a challenging campaign as well as plenty of furious dogfighting, 
 and you'll find both of these features in JetFighter IV. The missions range from strikes against 
 enemy task forces to hunting down stolen tanks, and while the enemy artificial intelligence isn't 
 particularly adept, the mission objectives are tough enough to make the game interesting. The change 
 of venue from airfield to carrier and ocean to desert also keeps the game sufficiently varied. 
   

  As with many games these days, it appears JetFighter IV shipped with incomplete or nonfunctional 
 features to meet a production deadline. Even though force feedback controllers are a menu option, 
 the game actually doesn't support them at all, and the multiplayer capability is likewise absent 
 even though there is a multiplayer setup screen. Both of these features were taken out at the last 
 minute due to problematic code, and TalonSoft has promised that these will be fixed with a patch. 
 For now, JetFighter IV is a solo game only and does not support force feedback.   

  Despite these problems, JetFighter IV is a light and enjoyable sim for those who don't want to 
 have to invest hundreds of hours learning a much more detailed, complex simulation. The campaign 
 carries the game along well, and the single scenarios and random mission generator will provide 
 a lot of replay value even when the campaign is over. Only the lack of multiplayer is a limiting 
 factor. JetFighter IV is a good choice for those who favor action over realism and even for hard-core 
 sim pilots who are looking for a change of pace.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Fighterpiliot
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 6:41 am PT
Review:  If you are a novice flight sim fan then this is the game for you. Although the graphics are not 
 exactly world class they are good enoungh to be pleasing and intresting. One nice touch is the... 
 well it is sort of a museum of objects in the jetfighter world, I forgot the exact name because 
 the game stopped working years ago. But one thing I remember clearly is how much fun I had blasting 
 away at the enemy fighters. And that brings me to the first bug in the game. Even if the missile 
 lock on system says you cannot get a lock on the missile will track to the target and detonate. 
 One small dissapointing factor is that you cannot even fly the enemy planes, let alone go into 
 combat with them! Over all it is a good game for a novice, but those who only settle for the bestin 
 terms of graphics quality and realism should let this one fly by. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bowler4000
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 10, 2006 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Once you get this game running, and get passed the bugs you realize that it is a Good flying game, 
 fun and exiting at first. After a while, however the game becomes redundant, and boring. The graphics 
 are good for the age, but just will not compare with the new technology. The music is good, but 
 recycles through about 3 songs. Plot line is boring, and lacks much thought. For five bucks its 
 a good game, but I would not spend anymore than that. I would not go out of my way to play this 
 game, maybe if I was extreamly bored, and had nothing better to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bond007dude
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 15, 2006 8:41 pm PT
Review:  I remebered the days where Jetfighter 2 was good fun, despite its MS Paint (c) -like graphics. Well, 
 I was a youngin' back then but now I have a sequel, Jetfighter 4. 
  
  Well, ignoring the fact that it didn't run that great on my GeForce 4 MX 4000 128 mb, 256 mb RAB, 
 1.4 GHz PC, I could easily tell the gameplay was very tedious. First off, the dogfights, where 
 most flightsim games get the most bang for the buck, unfortunately were very time-consuming and 
 difficult. It was very difficult to find and shoot down and enemy with your bullets. 2nd off, the 
 enemies were not very interesting. Besides there being only a handful of different aircraft, the 
 AI was too difficult and tiresome.
  
  The game had plenty glitches, also. For example, besides being ILLEGAL the game claimed to feature 
 multiplayer, which it didn't. And the practice missions would often have very strange glitches, 
 the runway wouldn't appear, your plane would automatically crash, etc. Some of the normal missions 
 had a few glitches also. On top of that, since the game is not compatible with Windows XP (although 
 it says it is) you must go into the notepad configuration settings and change a bunch of numbers.
 
  
  The game is not altogether hopeless, though. There are a few good missions included.
  
  Graphics-Way over-hyped. They are not anything to brag about. And the game should run smoother 
 because of it, but it doesnt. 
  
  Sound-Um, somewhat poor. The voice overs were done with a really low qualtity microphone, besides 
 some of the voices do not match whatsoever. The rest of the sounds are not extremely good, albeit 
 they do the job.
  
  Value-There are practice missions, single missions and a campaign. Your standard Jetfighter game, 
 but in new packaging. It is interesting to note how little effort was put into this game because 
 all the aircraft models have exactly the same physics. (and not very realistic ones at that!)
 
  
  Tilt-A decent game, not very cutting edge though. It is worth the 3$ that I paid for it.
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_GUNN_man
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 27, 2004 10:40 pm PT
Review:  I only spent $10 on this game and I still feel like I was ripped off. I just never got a good feel 
 for this game. Sounds good on paper but plays like crap. I love simulation games but just couldn't 
 make myself play much of this game. I am sorry you even had to read this. I have already wasted 
 time from your life that could have been better spent reading the ingredients on bottled water. 
 Always be cautious when buying games like these on the bargain bin of a Big Lots. You get what 
 you pay for. That doesnt hold true in all cases but it does in this one. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
