-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Jetfighter 2015
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/jetfighter2015/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Arcade gameplay will appeal to some.
 Extremely challenging situations with oodles of enemies.
 Nice explosions.
 Blowing up terrorists is always fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Far too primitive for serious sim pilots.
 Resembles a shooter more than a flying game.
 Annoying, repetitive cutscenes.
 Generally simplistic graphics.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  7, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.2
Critic Score: 6.2, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 6.5, 79 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Global Star Software
Genre: Futuristic Jet Sim
Date:     Sep 8, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A blast from the past in more ways than one, Jetfighter 2015 feels more like a shooter than an air 
 combat game. 

  Like Paul McCartney, the Jetfighter series just won't go away. Debuting in the late '80s and morphing 
 through oodles of iterations since then, Jetfighter has alternately been fun (the floppy-ensconced 
 original) , semiauthentic (Jetfighter IV and V) , and disappointing. Now in its sixth incarnation, 
 the futuristically titled Jetfighter 2015, the game has seemingly given up any and all pretensions 
 of being complex or appealing to simulation fans. Indeed, the latest in the lineage hearkens back 
 to the glory days of the arcade coin-op, when authenticity and flight dynamics took a very distant 
 backseat to blowing up virtually everything you see as soon as you see it, lest the colossal swarm 
 of bad guys gets you first. But while Jetfighter's throwback style of high-speed hijinks is moderately 
 good fun over the short term, it quite likely isn't enough to keep most players playing over the 
 long haul. Its bargain-basement pricing and inclusion of Jetfighter V on a separate disc are definite 
 draws for certain folk, but the repetitive, simplistic yet manic gameplay and matching retro graphics 
 will rightfully drive many more away. It's not a  bad  game per se; it's just old and disappointing. 

          In Jetfighter 2015, it is your sworn duty to blow up as much stuff as possible. Here, an 
 enemy helicopter becomes an airborne bonfire.     

  Jetfighter certainly won't worry flight-sim developers. Each of the game's missions starts you 
 off in the air, so there's no worry about takeoffs and landings. There's also no need to fret over 
 midair stalls, redouts, fuel problems, waypoints, weapons loadouts, or any of the other trials 
 and tribulations that befall "real" pilots. Heck, you won't even need a joystick. Like a midair 
 shooter, Jetfighter is best operated with a mouse and a few keyboard keys. "Strafe," "Hover Up," 
 and "Hover Down" are all commonly accessed commands.  

  The game opens on the premise that terrorists are very, very bad. Nothing new there, but in this 
 case, the blighters have been pushed into the backwoods of South America. There, they plan to make 
 their final stand, making and selling their drugs, annihilating anyone who gets in their way, and 
 quite possibly developing USA-destined nuclear weapons. It is your duty, as the sole pilot in the 
 sole airplane America is able to spare, to bring an end to their aspirations.  

  Jetfighter does not offer a lot of gameplay options. There's a short but informative training session, 
 a free-flight mode that lets you flit about various locales without firing a shot or seeing an 
 opponent, and the game's main event -- a nondynamic campaign consisting of 15 individual missions. 
 Each will take you farther toward your final goal and toss more and more enemies at you along the 
 way. A typical scenario involves locating a drug plantation, blowing it to smithereens, discovering 
 other targets and destroying them too, and annihilating the horde of flying machines sent to end 
 your run. Prospective targets include buildings and structures, ships and submarines, and assorted 
 aircraft such as fighter jets, bombers, helicopters, and the like.  

  It can become insanely busy out there, what with mobile antiaircraft vehicles zipping about below 
 you, dozens of fixed gun placements, and wave upon wave of various aircraft. Note that each mission 
 begins in exactly the same fashion every time you attempt it. Note also that each enemy enters 
 the fray from exactly the same position every time you go back to that mission. At least their 
 combat movements are in reaction to your own. Moreover, some missions do add an extra element, 
 such as protecting a fleet of ships or offering cover for a friendly helicopter that's just picked 
 up a Very Important Person.  

  However, the game operates on the tried-and-true arcade principle that if enough enemies are thrown 
 at you, you will repeatedly fail and be forced to replay said mission a zillion times until you 
 know everything that's going to happen in advance and are quick enough to deal with it. Some missions 
 are very tough indeed, and at times you may throw your hands up in the air, stomp your feet, and 
 curse the occasionally sadistic difficulty.  

  There isn't a lot of straight-up flying in Jetfighter. You'll usually begin in or very near the 
 center of the action, with very little countryside to traverse to do your deeds. Hovering like 
 a helicopter and twirling about to obliterate the bad guys, keeping the gun button depressed the 
 entire way, and firing the guided weapons even when they're not fully locked on an enemy are recurrent 
 themes. Another favorite pastime involves sourcing an armed plantation or encampment, sitting back 
 at a safe distance, and unloading your bombs or air-to-ground missiles until all nearby structures 
 have blown up real good.  

  Jetfighter delivers an acceptable visual exhibition but certainly won't win any graphic achievement 
 awards. In short, it looks dated. Video effects are limited, and you shouldn't expect to see modern 
 accoutrements such as environmental or time-of-day variables. On a more positive note, you can 
 play the game from several camera perspectives and take advantage of inset missile cams, rudimentary 
 radar, and weapons indicators. Wispy clouds are evident, as are rather pretty missile trails and 
 contrails.  

  Near each level's hotspots, the action heats up with lots of nifty stuff to see -- including animated 
 jeeps and trucks; the peripheral terrain, however, is hilly and crisscrossed by waterways but otherwise 
 seriously bland. When something explodes -- and most everything does in the hotspots, including buildings 
 hit by just a few bullets -- it does so by breaking into several large, predetermined chunks. That's 
 not to say explosions aren't good clean fun. Indeed, they're fiery and cataclysmic -- yet the realism 
 and variety therein is most definitely wanting.  

  Outside the designated hotspots, terrain and objects are unaffected by your weapons, and missiles 
 and bombs that miss their prospective targets mysteriously vanish in midair or evaporate on the 
 ground. Indeed, the game won't even let you suffer damage by colliding with the ground. One of 
 the more annoying aspects of the game is the sequences of cutscenes that appear every time you 
 discover an enemy base or an important but unexpected target. Even if you've visited that particular 
 level a hundred times, you must once again endure the dreaded cutscenes. And though you can pound 
 escape to get through them, you can't get rid of them.  

          Occasionally, Jetfighter 2015 throws a curveball. Here, our hero is asked to quell an oil 
 rig fire by zapping it with chemical bombs.     

  Jetfighter's multiplayer mode is based on a simple deathmatch format and predicated by the fact 
 that someone else is ready to play when you're ready to play. There is no matchmaking service, 
 so good luck with that. The game's audio engine fares only marginally better, delivering big, booming 
 explosions and clear, concise voice-overs from your unseen bosses and the robotic onboard computer. 
 Yet cockpit and engine sounds are almost nonexistent, and everything else seems subtle and muted. 

  The fact is that Jetfighter 2015 is an entry-level title geared toward undemanding, budget-conscious 
 pilots who are quite happy in its throwback arcade environment. There is, after all, something 
 to be said for shoot-now-ask-questions-later explode-o-fests. Moreover, the inclusion of the previous 
 Jetfighter title, the more authentic Jetfighter V, is an added bonus. That said, it's not particularly 
 good at what it's attempting to accomplish. Also, it's curious and quite disappointing that this 
 Jetfighter is so far removed and so much more simplistic than earlier games in the series.     
 
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: masterchiefv44
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 2:21 am PT
Review:  jet fighter 2015 is a game that is not much interesting to play. it's like most of the other shooting 
 game. But has one great disadvantage, the controls. they really suck!! when I play the game I could 
 only play with keyboard and mouse. Now imagine that there is a lot of fly moving enemies surrounding 
 you and you are trying to get a good aim at them with your mouse which is too much sensible. It 
 was barely impossible to aim at them with the mouse and the ability to put the plane into stationary 
 mode make the control more confusing. There is also not enough RR missiles, the game focus more 
 on using machine gun. This is why you can get a good kill with the mouse. And also there were no 
 joystick or game pad option. At the time the game has been released, the developer could have made 
 an effort for the graphical performance.
  From my view, I recommend not to waste money for cheap game like this. Instead play "Blazing angel" 
 it is much more playable and interesting. 
  thx for reading and have a nice play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fighterpiliot
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 10:01 pm PT
Review:  If you want to fly an aircraft go for something like Jetfighter 5, or Pacific Fighters, and absoulutly 
 not Jetfighter 2015. If you want realistic air combat go for Lock On Modern Air Combat. If you 
 want something like what you would find at an arcade for 25 cents per try go for Jerfighter 2015. 
 In fact air to air and air to ground combat is made harder than it should be by the bad controls. 
 Add to that a mission that toook ne something like a year and a half to get past and yu will find 
 you won't be recomending this game to your friends. The only nice part of the game is the cool 
 flyable aircraft and amazing explosions. Although I haven't seen any bugs the game itself should 
 be a bug so it's not suprisin I haven't found any. Over all it is an okay game if you are into 
 the subject but with a lot of room for inprovment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzy_shank
Rating: 3.3
Date: Jan 11, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  It does support a flight stick, Sorta. I can use my Sidewinder Precision 2. Go to "Define Keys" 
 and set each function. Have to turn sensitivity down to about 1/4 & invert the X-Axis. Even then 
 stick flight was horrible.
  
  Good: Decent graphics and nice explosions. 
  
  Bad: Somehow flying with a mouse & keyboard is just not the same. Missions are tough, Even on "Easy" 
 mode and using trainers for unlimited ammo. You are bombarded constantly by 6 or more enemy threats 
 ranging from ground AA to helicopters, enemy fighters and these annoying little drones. If you 
 ignore the air threat and go after the ground threat you will be swarmed by air threats (ie. ship 
 escort and burning oil rigs) I had 20+ aerial threats coming at me constantly hitting me with rockets 
 while I was trying to take out floating mines in the canal. NOT FUN! more frustrations that anything 
 else.
  
  Still looking for a nice and enjoyable 1st person shooter similar to or better than "Crimson Skies". 
 Never been a Sim Pilot & just not my game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jondavisx
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 20, 2005 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Poor graphics, Poor physics, Way to easy and dull make this game an absolute piece of dog poop. 
 do not buy this game it lacks in so many ways its hard to really even begin to list them all. I 
 am only writing this review for the mere sake of you. Don't say i didn't warn you to stay away 
 from this one. If you want to waste 1 hour of your life that you can never get back just download 
 the demo and see for yourself. When I started playing this game I thought for a second that I mistakenly 
 down loaded an old copy of A-10 Cuba from 1995. Well at least A-10 Cuba was fun to plat and the 
 graphics for its time seemed pretty good. Well 2015 jet fighter should be renamed to 1995 SuckFighter, 
 or at least put a warning on the front saying Don't buy this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
