-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: John Romero's Daikatana
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/daikatana/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  1, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.6
Critic Score: 5.3, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 4.4, 340 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Ion Storm
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Apr 14, 2000
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Daikatana is not an unmitigated disaster - but unfortunately, that's not enough to endorse it.

 After more than three years in production, Daikatana, the first game developed entirely in-house 
 by Ion Storm, has been released. And it's pretty bad. Ironically, Daikatana's biggest failures 
 are due in large part to both a lack of imagination and poor design choices - in short, the very 
 principles on which Ion Storm was founded.   

  Daikatana is a cross between a first-person shooter and a stat-based, story-driven role-playing 
 game. But you get the feeling the game isn't going to tread any new narrative ground early on. 
 Daikatana's opening scene is five minutes of dense, tedious exposition delivered as a virtual monologue 
 by a character who stands still while the camera makes swooping motions around him. At some point 
 in his speech he apparently gets killed but then recovers just enough to deliver another minute 
 of exposition in the classic dying-guy choked gasp. In a sense, the segment does set a mood: Since 
 you realize that Daikatana is supposed to be story-driven, you'll find that the numbing lack of 
 creativity displayed in both the structure and writing of this first scene acts as an ill omen 
 of things to come.   

  The plot is advanced through periodic in-game cutscenes that are usually shorter than the opening 
 cutscene but equally inane. It's as if whoever wrote the story wasn't aware of the game going on 
 between the plot points. At one point your character Hiro is spooked by the appearance of a ghost 
 after having just dispatched two hundred reanimated skeletons in the previous level. At a later 
 point, characters debate walking through a graveyard. One of them says he has a bad feeling about 
 it, while another chides him for being superstitious. Meanwhile, they've both forgotten that they 
 were battling an entire army of zombies moments ago and that the time for healthy skepticism is 
 over. This sort of disparity between the plot and the gameplay is frequent and gives the story 
 a cheap, threadbare quality that works against any atmosphere the game attempts to build.   

  The role-playing elements are a wash as well. Hiro has attributes for speed, rate of fire, vitality, 
 power, and jump height. You gain experience by killing monsters, and when enough points are accrued, 
 you can raise one of the attributes a notch, up to a maximum of five per attribute. The problem 
 is that the level raising has little noticeable effect on gameplay. In fact, the entire system 
 could simply be removed from the game, and the experience of playing Daikatana would be virtually 
 unchanged. The Daikatana itself can gain up to five levels if you use the weapon to kill enemies. 
 By the fifth level, it's arguably the most powerful weapon in the game, but it's distracting to 
 carry around because it bisects the screen and has animated blue energy lines flickering around 
 it. It's probably the biggest weapon in shooter history. The sword has a little more effect on 
 the game than Hiro's stats, but it's still ultimately a gimmick that seems more like an afterthought 
 than a tightly integrated feature.   

  Even with its nonsensical story and irrelevant RPG trappings, Daikatana could still have emerged 
 as a good shooter if the action parts had turned out well. Unfortunately, the action portions of 
 Daikatana frustrate more often than they entertain due to a combination of inconsistent level design, 
 a poorly realized sidekick feature, and an unforgiving save system.   

  The sidekicks are by far the biggest problem and effectively ruin the experience of playing Daikatana. 
 For much of the game, you're accompanied by up to two computer-controlled companions. They fight 
 alongside of you, give you bits of information, and arbitrarily do things like scream "wazzzzzup?!" 
 more times than they probably should. If either of the sidekicks gets killed, the game is over. 
 Unfortunately, they have a tendency to get lost, shoot you, walk into your line of fire, get crushed 
 under doors, fall to their deaths, get stuck running toward walls, and generally cause you grief. 
 The sidekicks are a burden, and managing them is a chore. Yet unlike the story and statistics, 
 they are a nontrivial part of the game that cannot be ignored. You can give them the same basic 
 commands you would a dog, such as come, stay, back off, and fetch, but they won't always listen 
 to you. It's especially frustrating when your buddies refuse to grab much-needed health packs sitting 
 atop even the gentlest incline.    

 Daikatana's save system complements the sidekick problem. Eschewing the save-anywhere feature used 
 by virtually every modern shooter, the designers have implemented a system whereby you must find 
 "save gems" in order to save your progress. You can carry as many as three gems at once, which 
 can then be traded at any time for an opportunity to save your game. Progress is also saved at 
 level transitions. In theory, it's not a bad system. It builds tension by creating an actual penalty 
 for death. If death in Daikatana were only caused by your own lack of skill, there would be no 
 problem with the save-gem concept. However, since death is often the result of a failure of the 
 game logic controlling your sidekicks, a save system that could have built tension instead creates 
 acute frustration. In addition, the placement of the gems is inconsistent. Since you have no idea 
 what lies ahead of you or how long each level is, it would have been nice if the designers had 
 placed the gems in such a way that you could infer some meaning from their position. Sometimes 
 the gems are located in a perfect spot for saving, and sometimes they're placed five feet from 
 a level transition. A few of the boss battles that occur in the middle of a level also could have 
 used a gem right afterward.   

  The game takes place across four time periods: far-future Japan, ancient Greece, Dark Ages-era 
 Norway, and San Francisco in the year 2030. The first of these, future Japan, features the straightforward 
 action of the original Doom. The monsters in this episode set the tone for the rest of the game. 
 Although the appearance of the monsters changes throughout the course of the game, they all exhibit 
 the same simple artificial intelligence. Virtually every enemy runs straight toward you until you 
 either kill it or it gets stuck on something, which happens a lot. The look of this first set of 
 levels is uninspired. The world starts out monochromatic green and eventually becomes monochromatic 
 blue. You must navigate a very long series of similar-looking twisty corridors to reach your final 
 destination.   

  The second world, Ancient Greece, looks better than the Japan levels but actually represents the 
 low point of Daikatana's level design. It starts off with wide-open spaces and bright colors that 
 offer a respite from the dark cramped feeling of the previous episode. The open areas even allow 
 for some pitched battles against hordes of oncoming skeletons. But it soon degenerates into a stuffy 
 corridor crawl, this time in brown.   

  By being strictly linear, the first episode sets a precedent that the second episode proceeds to 
 break, which can be confusing. In the first episode, level transitions are absolute. There's no 
 need to backtrack. The second episode requires you to backtrack a lot. It's confusing because your 
 goals are not clearly presented, and the play mechanic of the second episode directly contradicts 
 the rules of the game universe you've learned by playing the first episode. At one point, instead 
 of informing you up front that your goal is to collect a series of keystones, the game waits until 
 you actually need them to give you that important fact. The sinking sensation that occurs when 
 you realize you're going to have to go back and reexplore the giant level is profound.   

  Near the beginning of the third episode, one of your pals becomes sick, and the healthy one must 
 carry the other through the entire world, making both of them essentially useless for fighting. 
 You must simply protect them. These levels really put the babysitting skills you've learned up 
 to this point to the test, and they lead to more frustration. The fourth episode is a return to 
 modern times and features a recurring find-the-hidden-key theme.   

  The designers did make one commendable decision. They have included a cooperative multiplayer feature. 
 Up to three people, one playing Hiro and two people controlling the sidekick characters, can play 
 through a modified version of the single-player game. The experience is modified in the sense that 
 both the story and the computer-controlled sidekicks are removed. The game benefits greatly from 
 their absence, and in this mode the game is often more fun and less maddening.   

  Several other standard multiplayer modes are included, such as deathmatch, team deathmatch, capture 
 the flag, and deathtag, a variation on capture the flag in which two players must work together 
 to retrieve the goal object. In a few online tests, it seemed as if the weapon balancing was off, 
 as everyone would scramble for the superweapon available in each time period.   

  There are moments playing Daikatana in which everything comes together - the sidekicks act as they 
 should or simply aren't around, and you're able to enjoy the game as a pure, unadulterated shooter. 
 But these moments are rare and are separated by long stretches of frustration punctuated by tedium. 
 It's true that the game has a lot of content. The levels are large, there are plenty of monsters 
 and weapons, and it will take you some time to finish. Yet a shorter, less disjointed experience 
 with a few memorable set pieces would have been preferable. After years of development and a vast 
 body of negative press, Daikatana is not an unmitigated disaster. But unfortunately, that's not 
 enough to endorse it.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ExMachinaXXX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Daikatana is a underrated and very misrepresented game by the press. Certainly, it has its flaws, 
 as most games have, but overall it is an enjoyable and fun experience.
  
  Strong points: great variety of foes, weapons and ambients, soundtrack, plot, level design, atmosphere, 
 level up system.
  
  Weak points: Sidekicks poorly implemented A. I., bland dialogue in cutscenes, limited save game 
 system (eliminated in patch 1.2, though) .
  
  Yes, sometimes the sidekicks can be a pain. Sometimes I let them behind and shoot the bad guys 
 myself, and after I pick the companions again. 
  
  Fortunately, most part of the game you have only one sidekick. But after a while, you get used 
 to control them and to be honest I started enjoying have them around, some commmentaries from them 
 are actually funny to hear. Be sure to have patch 1.2, because then the sidekicks can use the hosportal 
 in Japan levels and the life fountain in Greece episode to heal themselves. In close spaces the 
 sidekicks normally are more than a nuisance than help, but in more open spaces they can be quite 
 helpfull.
  
  The gem based save game system is another weak point, but fortunately patch 1.2 lets the player 
 save anywhere.
  
  The story is cool and interesting, all your actions are very story-driven. The dialogue certainly 
 could be better, but I like to think that Daikatana's cinematics are kind of a fun B movie. 
  
  One thing that I really like about Daikatana is how much variety the game has. Four completely 
 distinct looking episodes, 25 unique weapons and tons of different enemies. This adds much to the 
 game experience, for the game never gets dull or repetitive, like many shooters do.
  
  The weapons are all amusing, and some are really cool, like the discus of daedalus and the mages' 
 scepters in Norway episode.
  
  The level desing for most levels is very nice and offer different things to explore. Some levels 
 are very linear, others need some exploration, like the lovely and well elaborated Acropolis. The 
 architecture in Greece is impressive. In fact, the good art direction of the game needs some praise.
 
  
  The level up system is a neat addition, because in the end it gives you the feeling that you got 
 quite powerful throughout your adventures.
  
  The atmosphere of the game is unmatched by many shooters. The feeling of each place and historic 
 period is unique, and the excellent soundtrack adds much to it.
  
  The graphics were OK for the year 2000, when it was released, but the effects and, mainly, the 
 almost real looking skies were awesome.
  
  Overall, Daikatana is a fun and enjoyable game. In fact, it is one of the shooters I had most fun 
 playing. Free yourself of prejudice and biased press reviews and give Daikatana a chance. :)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamanto
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 28, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  I read about Daikatana's development when I read Ion Storm's page on Wikipedia; I'm a Thief fan. 
 It has a very interesting back story, but I can't say the same about the game's own story. It is 
 full of cliches, and the whole game is about, get this: An ancient Japanese sword that gets stronger 
 as you kill ugly-ass monsters with it, and it is also capable of time travel!! Now using random 
 environments like Ancient Greece and Futuristic San Fransico is easy when you have a time travel 
 story, but the problem is environments are lame and ugly. The weapons are boring, and you end up 
 using the second class weapon in all of the time periods plus your sword, which by the end of the 
 game cuts the thoughest enemies in pieces with one click!
  I hate the two "sidekicks" you have during the game. I don't hate the idea of co-operative gameplay; 
 I mean I love Left 4 Dead. Daikatana, I think, was the first game to include co-op gameplay into 
 the game's main story and singleplayer campaign. But the AI is just so stupid, and your sidekicks 
 get into your way, and they say stupid one liners like: "I think you just need to put one foot 
 in front of the other..." just too many times. And the Japanese woman talks in such a fake accent. 
 "Eee Lowks Luyk samting out of te Tark Aches!"
  I got this game off Gametap for 99 cents, and well, it is an interesting game, not a good one but 
 an interesting one. It might be worth a free download, give it a shot if you had time. Content 
 wise, the game ain't that bad. It has 24 weapons and many different, but all equally ugly, monsters. 
 The real problem is that it doesn't matter if your enemy is a werewolf, a futuristic mechanic frog, 
 a Roman soldier wandering in Ancient Greece, or even a future Alcatraz prison, all they do is just 
 run at you and hit you, o bite you.
  If the game had better visuals, better environments, a more solid story, and a much better AI, 
 it would've been one of the best games ever. I guess it has just too ambitious, having 24 weapons 
 and 30-somethign levels in 4 very different enviroments and tens of different enemies, and they 
 started working on this game 11 years ago, when the standard number of weapons in a shooter was 
 5 or 6. Someone had to tell Ion Storm people preffer to play through a short, repetetive but good 
 game, like Left 4 Dead, than a long, long, varied mediocare game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leo_T_C_K
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  OK, it might be strong words to say Daikatana is a good game for some. But it isn't a bad game, 
 just an old-school shooter with its flaws. 
  
  First off, this game went through developing problems, one of the biggest mistakes was probably 
 switching the engine, when they had to recreate stuff from scratch, they had even particle effects 
 in the quake 1 build, even though in software rendering yet back then, but perhaps if they just 
 modified it like half life engine was, it would be better, but no, they decided to switch.
  People call this Q2 ripoff, initially it isn't Q2 ripoff and I like the game better than Q2, which 
 is for me not that great game as it is said to be and is overrated.
  I really don't want to hurt Q2 fanboys, but by my opinion it is Q2 who ripped DK, in the early 
 Quake 1 engine build I have played there was this level which was similar to that jail level of 
 Q2, but it might be because some people left development and joined ID and back...
  
  I am sick of people bashing this game and even saying lies about it. 
  
  The AI is screwed 
 and the game has bugs, which started to appear once the original team left the developement and 
 the coders started joining and leaving the game developement (and leaving mess) and perhaps Romero 
 was being a bit lazier in the end. That's why alpha builds were rather stables and betas of this 
 game were unstable. 
  I don't see this game worse than some really overrated games and it is a real blast in multiplayer, 
 it has this special announcement system, different to Q3 or UT, it tells about what weapon killed 
 who... if you kill someone with ion blaster the "announcer" will yell: "ionized!", or "made a mess" 
 when killed by C4 launcher, "rode a rocket" by sidewinder and a lot more variants by each weapon. 
 It adds a lot of pace to the game and paradoxically the multiplayer is the strongest part of this 
 game. 
  
  DM is best and probably is the EP1 episode set too.
  The least played and favourite part of game both single and multiplayer was Episode 4, it was rather 
 too half-life like and not that fast paced as rest of the game. Not to mention this particular 
 mission having only hitscan and melee enemies, which makes you load the game often and trying over 
 again. Also the learning curve of this game is not that easy at first and it is fun to replay game 
 and to find all the secrets and easter eggs too, I have even finished the game on hardest mode 
 (which though makes you use your RPG skills the most) .
  
  Also patches fixed most of the most annoying bugs and removed the need for the savegems, but still 
 few bugs remained (mainly singleplayer) . 
  You can't save on moving objects for some reason, there is one level where if you save and load 
 the position, it will break a sequence with a level boss and you will be unable to continue, fortunately 
 this level is rather short, so it's not that much of problem to play it without saving. And episode4 
 bugs with sidekicks' weapons vanishing at one point (this seems to be patch specific bug sadly, 
 but the rest of episodes are fixed) , so you must lead them unarmed to get new weapons.
  
  If you are fan of oldschool shooters and adrenaline pumping multiplayer and have open mind, you 
 really should play this title, not to mention the music is excellent, although in mp3 format, which 
 is known to have less quality than vorbis, or mod type tracks.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rikhan_z
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 14, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  Despite heavy delays and loads of problems at the Ion Storm workplace, Daikatana is finally here. 
 Daikatana is a first person shooter which allows you to play as a warrior named Hiro (pronounced 
 He-ro) , who has to travel though time to stop Kage (Kaa-Ki) from preventing a cure being developed, 
 thus shaping the past and having him take control of the world. 
  
  This news was told by a gentleman who tells the story to Hiro and is told to goto Kage's headquarters 
 to rescue his daughter Mikiko. Along the way, he meets a ex-commander 'Superfly Johnson' and then 
 after rescuing Mikiko, they both becomes your sidekick and travel though time to stop Kage.
  
  Having mentioned the story, I have difficulty thinking if the story is sci-fi or fantasy, however 
 I'm left confused. 
  
  As it's a first person shooter, it has got RPG elements, as you can level up Hiro and raises his 
 stats in the game to improve his performance.
  
  Considering this game was delay for 3 years, the graphics are dated a lot, by the time this game 
 got released, the whole world had already experienced the new Quake 3 engine. Daikatana used 'Quake 
 2' engine and just came too late.
  
  Another criticism are the sidekicks, despite being the major selling point of the game, they behave 
 poorly throughout the game, also there are bugs in the game, when you save and reload the save 
 state, they disappear and this leaves the game broken. This bug has been fixed by installing the 
 latest patch of the game.
  
  Games which were release around 2000, had far superior AI, good examples being Quake 3 and Unreal 
 Tournament.
  
  The gameplay is running around, shooting everything and get to the end and with your sidekicks 
 on later levels, there are secret areas, just like what Quake 2 and Doom had, also power-up items 
 are lying around, however they vaguely help you.
  
  The weapons are good, however some do a lot of waste of ammo, the shotgun simply have trouble control 
 itself as fires 4 shots with a mouse click. It was useless.
  
  Adding insult to the game are the Save Gems, you need one Gem to save your game, I'm pretty sure 
 when buying the game, everyone has a luxury of saving their game anytime. Again, the patch gives 
 you the freedom of saving.
  
  The sounds in the game are good, however in some areas are grade-A annoying and considering there 
 are some Japanese characters in the game. The voice acting is terrible.
  
  Finally if you do play the game, and complete it from curiously, you wouldn't want to play the 
 game again. Same for Multiplayer.
  
  Story 4/10  Fantasy or Sci Fi? I'm confused however some of the elements are good, especiality 
 the ending.
  
  Graphics 3/10  Dated, Quake 2 engine type of game released in 2000 when Quake 3 came out.
  
 
  Gameplay 6/10  Secret Areas, lengthy single player, Dumb AI, annoying sidekicks
  
  Sound 5/10  Bad voice acting, annoying sounds sometimes, it's good in some areas.
  
  Value 
 2/10  once you're done, move on, I know I did, Multiplayer offers something, however it lasts 
 a day.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: L0UD
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  This ought to be one of the worst 1st person shooters around. This game is very similar to Quake 
 2 in what it tried to achieve. The difference is Quake 2 succeeded in its concept.
  The graphics are alike (and thats about the only thing that these two games have in common) , although 
 Daikatana looks a bit worse and considering that it got released about 2 years after Quake 2 that 
 cant be good. All in all a poor game, with very badly rendered mobs and silly types of mobs these 
 are, like for example the first youll encounter in this game are big dragonfly look alike. Scared 
 yet? At some stages you wonder more about where do go or what to do next than shooting things, 
 and this was supposed to be a shooter after all.
  Instead of paying for this game you should get payed for playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PiIsARational
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 9, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  Ahh, Daikatana. Everyone remembers the ads, the promises of John Romero making you his **** Unfortunately 
 for Romero, the game fell short of it's expectations when it was released in 2000, almost three 
 years after the promised date. In any case, I'll own up to actually purchasing this game when it 
 came out in 2000 and I don't regret it. The game itself has it's flaws, but overall I could see 
 where Romero wanted to go with this game.
  
  Let's start out with the good:
  
  For me, I've always been a fan of Romero's level design and in this game it does show. He knows 
 how to make levels fast paced but still have some detail and atmosphere. Definitely fun times playing 
 on some of these maps.
  
  The RPG elements worked good for me, actually it's what started my interest in RPG games in general. 
 It makes you feel as if all that hacking and slashing was worth it to become a bit more powerful. 
 I think Romero balanced the RPG elements quite well.
  
  The controls to this game aren't so bad either and the engine speed and stability are top notch 
 (at least revisited, I don't remember how this was in 2000) .
  
  Multiplayer and Co-op moods are great. I've had some fun times, and believe it or not, there is 
 an active Daikatana online community going on today.
  
  Now let's get on with the bad:
  
  A lot of people were pissed off with the graphics when this game was released. People were 
 cited saying that the graphics were actually WORSE than Quake II's, the engine that was used to 
 build this game. This is true to some extent, I thought the lighting in this game was fairly good 
 and was appropriate but the character models in this game are fairly poor. They're pretty blocky 
 and look rushed. Some of the game's textures feel rushed as well. However, this didn't stop me 
 from playing this game. Maybe because I originally played Quake II in software mode, and got a 
 voodoo 3 a few months before Daikatana, I don't know but I know it was never a concern for me.
 
  
  The biggest issue that every reviewer has to say about this game is the sidekicks. Let me first 
 start out by saying that yes, the sidekick AI in this game is indeed flawed and has tons of random, 
 annoying quirks that can agitate you into closing the game. I will give Romero credit for attempting 
 to implement the sidekick idea and actually sticking with it. This may be the first time I ever 
 saw sidekick's in an FPS throughout an entire storyline. Once you figure out the quirks and ways 
 around them the game isn't so bad. You can always start the game in Co-op mood by yourself to remove 
 the sidekick's as well.
  
  People say the story was decent but to me it felt fairly uninspired and lame. Basically, fighting 
 over a sword. Nothing worth noting there.
  
  Overall, I thought Daikatana was a decent game and it's worth playing if you can get past the quirks 
 and play it for what it is. I believe Romero's extensive coverage in magazines, etc. helped fuel 
 this rushed feel of the game. Instead of designing, developing, and testing this game he spent 
 more time on living it up so to speak. Had he developed this quietly it could of been great. I 
 personally think if/when Romero releases the source code we could see some good changes and may 
 develop an active community once again. I would also enjoy seeing the game remade on the Source 
 Engine if Romero releases the source code to the game and maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBlaklyon
Rating: 4.2
Date: Dec 13, 2006 10:06 pm PT
Review:  It funny how 7 months of development can turn into 3 to 4 years. Its also funny how it took 3 to 
 4 years to develope a game that looks like it was done in 1 month. and it took over 2 million to 
 make this game? Is't that what they said about the blair witch project movie production? After 
 waiting all this time, playing sorry ass demo after demo and, listening to the hype come from verious 
 the Video game news articles, I am very disappointed by the final product. But, hey! at least it 
 is better that the N64 version. Well, Thats not saying much. I would say it is better that the 
 aquaman game but, ANY game is better than that! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vincent3810
Rating: 2.4
Date: Aug 31, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  This game is really one of the worst ever!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  its far from good, so bad even the creator thinks it sucks.........
  its just too bad.
  
  
 the graphics are like nothing, only if you like guys with flat body's.
  the only good thing about it is the sound.
  the story is so boring that you would think it was 
 not even possible...
  it is so hard nobody likes to play it (you cant even beat it) .
  just dont play it, its a totally waste of time...
  
  i purchased it for 2 euro, even that was 
 too much money.
  the gameplay is also, just too difficult.
  it does not matter in which way you program it, its too difficult. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaddyW
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 17, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  I know, why some many people don't like the game:
  
  The graphics are poor... even when it first was presented in E3. There are still Quake 1 engine 
 leftovers in the final game. The whole technology is poor: The charakter animations look like playmobil 
 and the whole atmosphere seems to be made in 2 hour of work... but...
  
  I really liked the game. I mean, i don't love it... but...
  
  The multiplayer was very cool. 
 I played the Coop-mode so many hours with a friend of mine. It was just plane fun! 
  
  If you like to have some entertainment for a couple of hours on a small LAN-party... give it a try! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyeNixon
Rating: 4.9
Date: Mar 21, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  There are loads of games that have tried to execute an excellent idea, or amibitous design, but 
 most fail. Several examples come to mind, but Daikatana is the most prominent of them all.
  
  Here was the layout, that Ion Storm had dreamt up for their work.
  -Sidekick system
  -RPG 
 elements
  -Large gameworlds
  -Varying architecture
  -Travel through several time periods
  -A central weapon with immense power
  -A new arsenal 
 for each time period
  -Appropriate sidekick and AI interaction.
  
  As you can see, it was quite a line-up, while Ion Storm succeeded in these respects, they executed 
 them all so horribly, that despite their efforts to create these features, they forgot to add quality 
 and polish.
  
  Daikatana, may be a fun ride, but unfortunatly, it was all ambition, and no good gameplay.
  
 
  While it certainly isn't the most horrid game around, Daikatana does fail like no other game has. 
 In fact, it's gameplay has such hideous oversights that it was ridiculous at times.
  In fact, the inane design actually made the beggining of the game even more difficult than the 
 ending sequences, which is ridiculous. The first level is riddled with some of the most annoying 
 enemies ever conceived, from bizarre robotic frogs to irritating dragonfly zippers, and not to 
 mention a larger variety of poorly designed opponents.
  
  The sidekick concept is an intriguing one, but when your so called "help" gets stuck in a corner, 
 or crushed beneath a automatic door, you can't help but feel a massive urge to kill them. Unfortunatly, 
 the death of your partner results in an immediate game over. The AI is horrid, Mikkiko and Superfly 
 Johnson (cringe-inducing names) are the pyshical manisfestations of my anger and fury unleashed 
 into some of the most annoyingly idiotic pixelated bodies you could image.
  
  Here, imagine these scenes that I had the luck to suffer through.
  
  -Superfly repeatedly complains 
 about ammo, yet each time we pass a pack by, he stands around stupidly, as if the ammo didn't exist
 
  
  -Mikkiko walks into an indentation in the ground, no problem right? Right!? You wish, she immediatly 
 becomes trapped, and I'm forced to restart the entire level.
  
  -Superfly seems intent on not using his chaingun, and instead feels the need to punch his enemies 
 to death with his mighty useless fists.
  
  -Mikkiko develops an attraction to my bullets, each time I fire, she seems drawn into my line of 
 fire, several Game Over sequences follow.
  
  Unless you have patience like that of no other human, you will find more than one situation that 
 will cross the line of sanity. Although, when the AI actually DOES work, your sidekicks are incredibly 
 useful at putting down swarming enemies. Sadly, it won't last very long, Superfly will be massacering 
 spiders one moment, and falling down a black abyss the next.
  It doesn't end with the sidekicks, enemies will constantly stare into nothingness while you firmly 
 plant buckshot into their foreheads.
  
  To add to the pain, the RPG system in this game has no benefits whatsoever. While it is quite interesting, 
 letting you invest in things like Health, Speed, or Firepower, in the end you'll only be using 
 your experience to power the Daikatana (A Katana blade that becomes stronger as it eats more XP) 
 unfortunatly, the oh-so-powerful Daikatana becomes so unbalanced and powerful, that you'll hardly 
 find a need for any of your other weapons, since you can instantly down enemies with one swing.
 
  
  Daikatana does have some interesting settings at least, and the graphics do approach decency at 
 times. Sadly, fifty percent of your game time will be spent looking at drab surroundings, with 
 the same textures and enemies used over and over again. Models look poor, and lighting is terribly 
 done, and the lighting used in the level design makes no sense whatsoever. Why, for example, is 
 this underground tunnel lit by torches green, when every other single torch illuminates red? Or 
 perhaps its just the horrible contrast between a well-textured enemy, and a big splotchy background.
 
  
  While sound is exceptable at most times, it becomes unbelievable annoying when you have to listen 
 to your sidekicks screaming obnoxious things while they stand around and do absolutly nothing.
 
  After you've heard...
  
  "SUCK IT DOWN!!"
  
  You'll never want to hear it again, and despite the game-over, it will make you want to kill that 
 bastard Superfly on the spot. Repetition in sound is five hundred times worse than repetition in 
 graphics, and since it seems the same five phrases are used over and over again, I can't give this 
 game any credit.
  
  The story involves something with the Daikatana, a magic sword that travels through time, and some 
 madman named Hiroshima, (I can't remember his name, I couldn't be bothered to) your job, as yourself, 
 Hiro, that is, is to stop this crazy guy, with no motivation whatsoever. Yes, one day, some old 
 man shows up at your door, offers you a blade, and all of a sudden ninjas are dropping down from 
 the roof, and you appear in the sewer system near the evil corporate guy's base.
  At this point, you'll skip all the cinematics to follow, as you wouldn't even understand how you 
 could want to watch this inane and simplistic plot.
  
  Daikatana, if you see it for three dollars at a nearby EB Games, go ahead, try it, but remember 
 to patch it. But if you actually want a decent game, stay away, ambition does not always mix with 
 good gameplay, they're two different aspects, and so many developers just can't seem to get that, 
 Ion Storm certainly didn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leafsfreak
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 17, 2005 2:22 am PT
Review:  I think it's funny that even after 5 years, Daikatana has not recieved a single review. One of 
 the most hyped games in history, being developed by the legendary John Romero, the creator of Wolfenstein, 
 Doom, Hexen, Heretic, and quake. Gamespot has made an entire feature on the story of Daikatana, 
 but i'll sum up the whole thing right now for you. Daikatana started out when John Romero left 
 Id software (the company he himself had started) and started (or joined, i can't remember) Ion 
 Storm. Ion storm seperated into 2 divisions. One part made the incredible Deus Ex, a game that 
 some consider the best FPS they ever played while the other part went to go make Daikatana, which 
 some consider to be an embarrasement to FPS games everywhere. Daikatana was in Development for 
 4 years and was delayed at least a dozen times before finally landing on story shelves in the year 
 2000. People had HUGE expectations for this FPS. John Romero said it would have fantastic weapons, 
 huge open-ended levels, very balanced RPG leveling up system, fantastic graphics, state of the 
 art physics and the greatest A. I. to ever grace a game. And you know what?
  
  John Romero lied.
  
  First, I'd like to say that i still hold respect for John Romero. If it 
 wasn't for him, we wouldn't have Quake, Duke Nukem, Doom, System Shock, Goldeneye, Perfect Dark, 
 Half-life, Halo... and so forth but i'm also here to warn you about this game. Do not buy it. If 
 you see it on store shelves, steer clear of it or advise the manager to burn every copy they have 
 of this game. It's a pile of trash copied onto a cd. Let me explain why.
  
  The Story in Daikatana is actually pretty good. A guy named Hiro Miyamoto (no reference to the 
 Nintendo guy) is training in his dojo when an old man knocks at his door. He says he is of the 
 Ebihara family that defeated the Mishima and his empire years ago with the help of the Daikatana 
 (a powerful sword) made by Hiro's ancestor. But uh oh, Mishima somehow acquired the Daikatana where 
 he ressurected his empire and now it's your job to get the Daikatana back and destroy Mishima for 
 good.
  
  Daikatana was supposed to have frantic battles against several enemies that use duck and cover, 
 manuevers, and special tactics. First off, the battles are not frantic. They are point and click. 
 Second, your enemies do not duck and cover, they do not manuever and they do not use special tactics. 
 They run in a straight line, right away making an EXTREMELY annoying noise (i think its supposed 
 to be a battlecry) until they get right up to you and make a different noise as they attack you. 
 Your enemy will stay right in front of you and will not stop attacking. If you get stuck in a corner, 
 you will be mauled to death. There is no stealth in this game. Also, another flaw in the gameplay 
 is the level design. To be blunt, it's outright awful. Some of the worst in any game ever made. 
 I don't know what the developers were thinking. I could've made a better level than any in the 
 game when i was 9 years old with some legos. All you have to do is shoot some enemies and turn 
 around by mistake. The levels are sometimes so symetrical that you'll turn around and go the same 
 way you came in without noticing. It's truly pathetic. It can take hours and hours to beat a level. 
 The only reason i even SLIGHTLY enjoyed the gameplay was the Daikatana. When it's fully leveled 
 up, it is a gigantic weapon that almost takes up the whole screen and it can be fun at points to 
 swing it around and decimate anything it hits but for the most part, the gameplay in Daikatana 
 is probably what ruined the entire game. The other major flaw (yes, there's more) was the A. I. 
 of your allies. Mikibo Ebihara and Superfly Johnson (who would name their son superfly?) and it 
 is your duty to take care of them. That's right. If they die, it's game over. The problem is that 
 they have extremely poor A. I. and will most likely die for the silliest reasons. Occasionally, 
 one of them will just run off into another direction with no clear objective. Sometimes they will 
 start shooting you and sometimes they will fire off into the blue and even get stuck in the wall 
 or in the air. It's a very shameful that a game would be released like this... but we can't forget 
 what happens during bossfights. Sometimes, your allies will not do what you order them too and 
 kamikaze right at the boss or just stand in one spot and shoot at him, getting decimated in the 
 process. It just makes the game a chore to play and i don't think i've ever played something this 
 tedious.
  
  Sometimes, Daikatana's true potential is visible. Thought the game looks terrible and sounds very 
 annoying at times, it's probably the games strongest points. Some ares show good production values. 
 For a 2000 game, the gun models are pretty good and they make a nice boom effect. The game has 
 some nice effects as well and the frame never bogs down. The music (though very little) is actually 
 quite good. But that's about as good as it gets for Daikatana. Daikatana has the worst battlecries 
 in any game in history. It also has some pretty terrible voice acting. Mikibo and Superfly sound 
 AWFUL. Some of the worst voice acting ever. Hiro Miyamoto is suprisingly good but one good doesn't 
 make up for several bads. Overall, the graphics and sound are probably the strongest aspect of 
 Daikatana but are still seriously dissapointing.
  
  Daikatana is not a fun single player game. It's not a game that will keep you coming back to it. 
 It does however have a multiplayer component which is actually pretty enjoyable at times. However, 
 due to the fact that Daikatana was so bad, there are no servers up and running. No one plays it. 
 This was probably the most fun part of Daikatana and now that it's impossible to play it (unless 
 you have some friends that like playing bad games) . Daikatana was like a current day Quake with 
 terrible balance but A LOT of blood. I actually had fun with the Multiplayer when people still 
 played it. Well, those days are gone. Seriously, who would want to play a wannabe quake when we 
 have games like Counter Strike, Halo, Unreal Tourney 2004, Return to Castle Wolfenstein and so 
 forth? Daikatana is just obselete now. Even back then, Quake 3 and Unreal Tournament were far superior.
 
  
  Overall, Daikatana looks like a game put togethor in 4 months, not 4 years. It's extremely dissapointing 
 and hopefully, a game won't ever again be made like it. It's like this. A world filled with Half-lifes 
 and halos is better than a world filled with Daikatanas and Sniper: Path of... vengeances? Err -- 
 Right then. Nevermind that. Just listen to these words. When it comes down to it, Daikatana is 
 a collosal failure as a game and should've never been made. DO NOT PLAY THIS GAME! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
