-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Joint Operations: Typhoon Rising
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/jointoperations/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 22, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.2, 33 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 1,393 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: NovaLogic
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date:     Jun 15, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Though the retail version has a few notable flaws, Joint Operations can be an exhilarating, fast-paced 
 game about modern combat. 

  It's only natural to think of Joint Operations: Typhoon Rising as an attempt to clone EA's successful 
 multiplayer-focused team-based shooters, Battlefield 1942 and Battlefield Vietnam. On the surface, 
 Joint Operations looks like a modern-day Battlefield game: you participate as a member of a team 
 as you attempt to seize a number of strategic objectives, and you can run around on foot or jump 
 into a myriad of vehicles to get around the vast maps. But developer and publisher NovaLogic throws 
 in a lot of new features to differentiate Joint Operations from the competition, and some of these 
 features are quite innovative and exciting. There's the fact that the game can support up to 150 
 players per server, which is significantly greater than what the Battlefield games can support. 
 Then there's the dynamic day/night cycle that actually models the time of day; no longer are you 
 fighting in perpetual daylight or eternal dusk. Joint Operations is a genuinely exciting game, 
 which makes it all the more difficult to admit that the retail version of the game also has a few 
 notable flaws.         It's important to use cover and concealment to mask your location, otherwise 
 you'll probably get your head taken off by a bullet.     

  Joint Operations is set in Indonesia, the sprawling archipelago nation that is one of world's largest 
 democracies, but one that's flush with volatile religious and ethnic tensions. After a bloody insurgency 
 erupts, the United States and other Western nations dispatch their special forces to the island. 
 You can play as either a Joint Operations trooper or as a member of the insurgency in a number 
 of multiplayer gameplay modes, including co-op, team deathmatch, team king of the hill, and "advance 
 and secure," which resembles Battlefield's conquest mode where your team has to seize a number 
 of control points on the map in order to win. Unlike Battlefield, there is no single-player option 
 to play the team-versus-team maps with computer-controlled teammates, though the game does allow 
 you to play the co-op missions solo against artificial intelligence bots. We wouldn't recommend 
 trying it solo, though, as the bots possess uncanny marksmanship. Generally, the bots in co-op 
 games are pretty passive -- they wait for you to come into detection range before firing on you, 
 so they're a letdown compared with actual human opponents.  

  As in most team-based shooters, in Joint Ops, you choose a character class to play, each with its 
 own distinct weapons and equipment. The rifleman gets the rocket launcher, which is useful against 
 vehicles, and he can also choose between a variety of assault rifles and grenades. The gunner has 
 access to the heavy machine guns that can lay down suppressive fire. The engineer gets some basic 
 rifle choices, but he can choose between the Stinger antiaircraft missile and the mortar, which 
 can rain down a devastating barrage. The sniper gets the sniper rifles and the target designator; 
 if a sniper designates a target for a mortar-equipped engineer, the mortar fire becomes devastatingly 
 accurate. And then there's the medic class, which can heal teammates and also revive fallen allies 
 on the battlefield. All the classes are designed to complement each other, and a well-balanced 
 team is preferable to a team made up primarily of snipers, for instance.  

  You can also choose to forgo some of the secondary weapons and tweak your ammunition load in order 
 to lighten your encumbrance. Joint Operations takes into account the amount of weight in weapons 
 and ammunition that you carry, so a lightly encumbered player can run faster than a heavily encumbered 
 one. It's an interesting trade-off, because there are moments in the game when it's useful to be 
 able to run faster than everyone else -- to make a sprint for the helicopter, for example -- but there 
 are other moments when you'd give your left arm for a Stinger to shoot down a helicopter dogging 
 you, or to have a rocket-propelled grenade knock out the Stryker personnel carrier being used as 
 a floating gun platform near your base.  

          This is the gunner's view from the gun turret of the Stryker armored personnel carrier, 
 just one of the many vehicles in the game.     

  Once you start playing, the thing that strikes you about Joint Operations is that this is a huge 
 game. There are approximately 30 maps, some measuring the equivalent of 50-square kilometers in 
 size. Even with 150 players in a map, it's still possible to feel alone at times. Thankfully, the 
 game's objective system ensures that the action is concentrated at several strategic points, so 
 it's not just a bunch of players running around haphazardly. When everything is going on in Joint 
 Operations, it's an amazing experience. You'll stand there as helicopters circle around and the 
 buzz of the chain gun can be heard over the thrum of the rotors while a hail of bullets rain down. 
 Meanwhile, mortar rounds scream overhead and bullet tracers fly by your head. Then an armored personnel 
 carrier will roll up and a squad will dismount and scatter into the nearby tall grasses. It would 
 be almost perfect if not for the fact that you die far too easily in this game, which can cause 
 some frustration.     

  Don't get us wrong, we're not averse to realistic first-person shooters. But the simple fact is 
 that it doesn't take much to kill you in Joint Operations, which may seem surprising given that 
 the game makes any number of other concessions in the interest of being more fun to play at the 
 expense of pure realism. You'll be standing there one second, and a second later, you're dead -- or 
 you'll be running around in the jungle and a sudden burst of gunfire will cut you down with no 
 warning; there's no time to even figure out where the shot came from, let alone react to it. Though 
 you do have a health bar, most bullet hits will kill you instantly. The few times that you are 
 just wounded is usually caused by something falling on you or shrapnel hitting you from a nearby 
 explosion.  

          Flying helicopters is simple in Joint Ops, and it's fun to zoom in quickly and drop a squad 
 off in a hot landing zone.     

  The fact that you can die so quickly makes it important that you approach Joint Operations differently 
 than you would Battlefield 1942 or any other comparable games. Instead of rushing brashly forward, 
 taking a few hits, and then calling for a medic, you have to hang back and scout your target from 
 afar. There's a very strong predator/prey dynamic going on where you have to stalk your victims, 
 kill them, and then fall back lest you fall victim yourself (tracer fire and the little directional 
 fire indicator in the corner minimap can draw a straight line back to you) . The most success we've 
 had was when we slowed down and took our time.  

  Even so, it still seems far too easy to die in this game, and that can be a pain, especially if 
 you're playing on some of the larger maps. You can spend a minute or two just getting to where 
 the action is and then be cut down almost instantly. To soften this a bit, you can make use of 
 forward spawn points, rather than using the default instant spawn point far to the rear, although 
 it may require waiting about 30 to 45 seconds.  

  When you're not running around, you're riding around in the many vehicles in the game, which are 
 all a blast. Ironically, most of the vehicles in Joint Ops are best used as transport and not as 
 weapons platforms; the enhanced mobility allows you to transport teammates around the map quickly. 
 It's fun to land the helicopter, watch as your teammates clamber aboard, and then insert them into 
 a hot landing zone with gunfire all around. NovaLogic went for ease-of-play instead of realism, 
 so the helicopters use the familiar WASD control scheme that makes them effortless to fly. And 
 it's also fun to load up the hovercraft with a couple of armored personnel carriers and jeeps and 
 then deliver them to a hostile shore, or you can participate in high-speed river runs aboard the 
 zodiac watercraft, which lets you zip past enemy defenses and deliver a small squad behind enemy 
 lines.  

  The graphics in the game are beautiful, not just because the game renders huge levels chock full 
 of jungles, villages, rice paddies, mountains, hills, valleys, and more, but also because it captures 
 all of the little things that manage to stand out. You'll note things like the lushness of the 
 jungle grasses, the heat wash coming off helicopter engines, or the sheer spectacle of hanging 
 out the door of an airborne Black Hawk helicopter watching huge firefights going on below. The 
 sound, on the other hand, has its low points as well as its high points; vehicle sounds are excellent, 
 but some of the assault rifles sound a bit tinny and almost muted. The horns on the jeeps are downright 
 lame and sound almost toylike.  

          You can call for a pickup at any time, and if you're lucky, someone will swing by and offer 
 a lift.     

  Meanwhile, the accelerated day/night cycle is an excellent feature because it changes the dynamics 
 of the map in a natural way as the battle carries on. At night, it's harder to detect someone crouching 
 in the tall grass, so you have to slow down and take your time. We've also seen instances of players 
 flying strafing runs in the helicopter with the setting sun at their backs; anybody looking up 
 to locate where the fire is coming from gets blinded by the sun. At night, there's  usually  enough 
 moonlight to see without night-vision goggles most of the time, but it can still get fairly dark, 
 necessitating the use of the goggles, which transform the darkness into an eerie green. It's cool 
 to view combat at night, as the flash of muzzle fire and tracers are amplified through the goggles 
 in a realistic way.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (84 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Perth2008
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 8, 2008 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Reviewed together with "JO: Escalation" (as I own "Combined Arms") .
  
  Well it is specifically a multiplayer online game ... I still however prefer single player games 
 so here's how I "work around" my preference:
  Select LAN and Host Game ... on "General Tab" make PSP Takeover "0" seconds, Replay "Yes" and Missions 
 "Cooperative". 
  
  What this means if you get to a spawn point you automatically can choose to respawn from it rather 
 than starting all the way back at base camp locations. You will note that the bad guys you have 
 terminated on earlier attempts stay dead as your new incarnation continues the mission. While this 
 "work around" can be frustrating (as you do not get AI allies ... you are very much alone) at least 
 you can explore the missions and beautifully rendered locales and enjoy a quasi single player experience.
 
  Others have compared it to Battlefield 2 and Battlefield Vietnam (both of which I own) but the 
 graphics and vehicle control mechanics are much nicer/smoother in Joint Ops. Essentially this game 
 is Delta Force Xtreme but without the dedicated single player missions.
  
  OVERALL: Similar to Delta Force Xtreme but without dedicated singleplayer missions. But if you 
 use the "work around" you can have a reasonably fun single player FPS, just be prepared to start 
 over many times to complete each mission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M3RC3tHeShOoTeR
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 31, 2008 6:36 am PT
Review:  Although it is a different game it was way worse than Battlefield Vietnam. Lagged horribly every 
 time I played it. Multiplayer is worse than any I have played console or pc even with the vehicles 
 which there isn't many. I wouldn't get this game unless you want to be dissapointed. It has a few 
 ok aspects such as the flight control but it ultamately makes gameplay the same as alot of others. 
 The graphix aren't great. Mortars are about the only fun part. The game lacks emmersion and explosions. 
 At this point and time there aren't many people online playing the game at the moment. I have a 
 hard time finding games that aren't co-op that doesn't have a clan pawning me as I try to learn 
 some of the newer controls. The lag made it so I couldn't turn corners well either. So this game 
 would be better if they added a singleplayer or just added better vehicles and enhanced the emmersion 
 first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ClassySloth
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  WOW! What a great concept! (I hope I don't sound sarcastic, this is coming from the heart) Novalogic 
 finally took a game based on the Black Hawk Down engine and gave it driveable vehicles, fully customizeable 
 players, weapons, accessories, and ammo, and most importantly, endless online possibilities. This 
 game was great. I've never had so much fun desigining a charcter. The gameplay is similar to Delta 
 Force: Black Hawk Down, so if you've played that, imagine that game, but multiplied by ten. The 
 aiming, the running, the hiding, the shooting, the flying/driving, and the perfect ambushes; this 
 game makes for a memorable experience. It's a bit laggy on lower-end systems due to graphics requirements 
 (the game's a MONSTER) but if you have at least a gig of ram, 2.8Ghz Processor, and a good video 
 card (256mb at least, if you only have basic PCI slots, you're barely cutting it. Those with PCI 
 Express or AGP slots, go for 512mb vid cards, or 768mb vid cards) . the online play was fun when 
 I wasn't getting kicked for #%@&ing PunkBuster errors. Other than that, the gameplay was mighty 
 fun. If you don't have a good enough system, stick to Delta Force Black Hawk Down. It's almost 
 as good. A Battlefield 1942 Killer? Hardly. Battlefield isn't such a performance hog, and will 
 always remain fun. Only high-end supersoldiers need apply. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SgtRomad
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  I play every FPS combat game ever sold for the PC. You name it, I play it. At first try with JO 
 I was not very impressed. The graphics just dont even come close to BF2, BF2142, or Call of Duty, 
 to name a few. However, all of these other games have limitiations that JO does not have. I like 
 the amount of weapons and vehicles that a person can use. I also like having such a huge play area. 
 I think the most stupid thing about BF2 and 2142 is the idiotic limitiations on map size when playing 
 single player. The game should let the USER decide on the size. In JO, there is only 1 size map, 
 big! To fly from corner to corner of a JO map can take more than 30 minutes. I also think the game 
 engine speed is remarkable. One can play even at the lowest resolution with a low end computer. 
 However, to do widescreen formats have at least 1.6 ghz, 1 gig of ram, and a Nvidia 6800. The balance 
 between video quality vs engine speed is perfection. All of the games mention above, other than 
 COD2, have a snail snot slow engine. I also like the time it takes to click on a server to be playing 
 online. COD2 is the worst, one may as well go eat supper while a new map is loading, and the files 
 are huge. It takes about 20-30 seconds in JO to download the map and put you in playing. JO has 
 the biggest map selection out of any game I have ever seen. Go to Delta Force Barracks and see 
 for yourself!!! There is not enough time to dowload and play every map available. With BF the number 
 of offical maps available is just pathetic, want more, pay the bucks. So far, I just can't find 
 a FPS combat game that holds my interest for more than a few weeks. With JO, I have been playing 
 for over a year now. I play 6 hours a day, then weekends up to 12 or more. I cant get enough playtime, 
 I absolutely love the game. Then when you find it to easy, load the International Conflict or Reality 
 mod and play the adult size version!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lathan94
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome!!!!!! I would end the review there but it has to be more than 100 words so 
 here i go. The first thing you need to know about this game is that you shouldnt approach it like 
 a battlefield game. Its more of a tactical shooter since you die so fast and your bullets will 
 drop over long distances. But the massive scale of the game makes you feel like you in a big battle 
 with lots of people since you are in a big battle with lots of people. Its so fun to pack your 
 buddys into a boat and hunt the seas for other ships. Or do a nightime raid on a town. If your 
 a fan of hardcore die fast tactical multiplayer shooters buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LekyIRL
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 11, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  Joint ops is, in one word, a brillant game. The huge maps make for exciting battles and lots of 
 room to use the vehicles in.
  However the huge maps are also a great weakness, as servers rarely have more then 64 players. Novalogic 
 gets around this in the AAS (Advance And Secure) mode. This is the primary game mode and is played 
 in a similar way to Battlefield's conquest. The difference is that you most take the CPs in a certain 
 order ie. If you have CP A you can't take CP C without taking CP B first.
  This mode really helps to focus the action on one or two points, which makes for some great games.
 
  The other modes are: Team Death Match, King of the Hill and COOP.
  King of the hill can be great fun since everyone is attacking the same point, so you will see lots 
 of action.
  A lot of people play the COOP, this can be great fun to play with friends and over the internet.
 
  Most of the weapons in JO feel really underpowered. It doesn't feel like your shooting a heavy 
 gun. Even the 50. cal, mounted on jeeps and such, feel really weak.
  The vehicles are really easy to drive, but are best used for transport as they are very vulnerable 
 to infantry fire.
  APCs are probably the best land vehicles in the game. A cunningly placed APC can hold and entire 
 area all on it's own.
  The helicopters are one of the best things in JO. They are really easy to fly, often have weapons 
 and, unlike BF2, you still pack people on the a helicopter even if all the seats have been taken 
 ie. if all eights seats/positions are taken you can still pack another 10 people on.
  The combat in JO often takes place at long range, were you can barely see the enemy. It isn't always 
 about who fires first, more about hitting the target.
  Dying in JO is extremely easy. A shot to the foot can kill you instantly. You will probably die 
 a lot more then you kill. This can be frustration sometimes and especially on the maps in which 
 you must use a transport.
  However other maps can still work great, and even if you die you can still get back into the action 
 quite quickly.
  It took me a couple of months of playing this game, before I really got into it and started making 
 lots of kills but once I did I really enjoyed it and found it oddly addicting.
  All in all, this is a great game. A most have for FPS and multiplayer fans. It's available for 
 10-4 euro/pounds/dollars. Buy it and play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dezapa
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 5, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  im finding this game alot of fun and i mean fun, 4 hours can go by so fast when you get a new game 
 and this did just that..... all the vehicles are easy to drive the weapons are very good, and the 
 ability to swim under water with a breath meter is so cool.......... this game has huge maps and 
 lots of cover to stay hidden......... being a sniper has never been so much fun.
  great game and hours of fun. Kinda put battlefield vietnam and bf2 on hold for awhile, need a good 
 shooter but cant figure out what one, tey this and its only $9.00 at future shop , another great 
 game for such a low price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StermerCody
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 28, 2007 4:58 am PT
Review:  Novalogic realesed another first person shooter since there past games like delta force. Joint 
 Operations was made from the developers from Delta Force Black Hawk Down. Well joint Operation 
 is a 150 player online game that has numoris vecichels. Joint operations is a game that can be 
 hard to play if you are new to the series i might get allitle mad because u can die very easily. 
 One shot in the foot can kill you. The online is a blast with no lag. If you are a fan of the series 
 you will definaly should pick up this game. But if you looking for a game like battlefiield 1942 
 you will want to pick up this game, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mttyd
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 7, 2007 9:40 pm PT
Review:  This game has great CO-OP somthing that developers as a whole need to work on implementing
  
  The maps were great and often surprised you on the amount of detail they contained. It's a 
 shame this game never took off as it has fantastic features like drivable vehicles etc. I think 
 the game may have been more fun to play on coop than multiplayer which could be why not as many 
 pepople got into it. All in all a great game.
  
  Since I have to fill up words I will talk about my favorite level. There was one level where you 
 get to drive a boat down this canyon and pick off snipers as you go. One feature they messed up 
 was the zoom feature on the sniper rifle. There was a patch that disabled this and made the game 
 a lot harder.
  
  GOOD JOB! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biohazard112
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 9, 2007 12:28 am PT
Review:  I think this is a great game graphics are good but could be better. There are some flaws when you 
 drive in a vehicle like the water is coming in to your car. And you sometimes can ride through 
 tree's. But for the rest it just a great multi-player game and that's al you get because it has 
 no single player. Some times multi-player is just a chaos because the teams don't work together 
 and just want to take over a point or be I the circle. The levels me be huge but the concentration 
 of the action is to a few single points although it's still quite large. But overall it's just 
 a great game it's definitely recommended. It's cool because you can crawl up to the enemy without 
 even they know it because you have a lot of pant's and tree's. The balance between vehicle's and 
 just walking player's is really good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorantula
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 3, 2007 6:55 pm PT
Review:  IMO this game is ALOT better than any Battlefield game, it just has that something that wants to 
 keep you playing. I also find alot of gameplay touches like day and night cycles brill and the 
 fact that no vehicle is used for anything but travel.
  
  However the game feels cheap and buggy, it's weird because it shouldn't be fun but it is... Everything 
 feels reused from Black hawk down and it just feels like the same game put together in 5 mins for 
 multiplayer. The guns even look horrible and the maps r like prints over and over again.
  When your in the game though none of this matters cause the maps doesn't feel repetitive like they 
 look and all the weird graphics and bad art etc etc just goes away and the gameplay kicks in.
 
  
  It's all about teamwork and it's really fun to camp in some bushes and pickoff people through the 
 night and day cycle for ages. The maps are soo large and give great freedom to do what you want.
 
  
  In games like BF2 the vehicles feel overpowering to the gameplay and the maps just dont feel right. 
 For some reason theres no sense of teamplay aswel and the battles are over pretty quickly. However 
 in this game the battles take ages and they're very fun.
  
  The sounds also are pretty poor but that doesn't matter cause when your playing it's all about 
 the gameplay.
  
  
  Overall it's the best game at what it does, it's just a shame BF2 stoll all the players from this 
 game and left ir for dead : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ironthor
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 25, 2007 12:03 am PT
Review:  My experience with JO has been very positive. I found it very realistic and an exciting game. When 
 it came out it surprised everyone with its large multiplayer game play (64 players) and received 
 positive feedback from other gaming networks, but personally I believe it was under rated in many 
 ways. Many gamers were interested in counter strike and never gave JO a thought. JO has the power 
 to grasp the gamer like no other game has ever before, the realism is memorizing! The M4, M203, 
 mini guns, sniper rifles, hummers, blackhawks are all user friendly and need no joystick to control. 
 This game is enthralling and deserves to be on the gamers desk right beside his glass of caffeine. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColdGen
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 1, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Novalogic released Joint Operations waaayyyy back in 2004. At the time it was probably the game 
 that supported the most number of players in a single game (up to 150) .
  
  Since its release one official expansion has been release, Escalation, which added features to 
 the game like new weapons, vehicles, maps, etc.
  
  And nothing since. Zip. Nuddah. One can only wonder what Novalogic have been upto since 2004. Is 
 another JointOps beater coming soon?
  
  I hope so!
  
  I still play Joint Operations and Escalation almost daily - sometimes for hours on end - mainly 
 Co-Operative multiplayer with fellow Australians. And I still enjoy it. Because of its age the 
 system requirements are a lot friendlier than more recent games like GRAW or Battlefield 2142 and 
 many others are still playing it.
  
  With the addition of some quality new MODS (Reality and International Conflict) and hundreds (if 
 not thousands) of maps available to download its longevity seems unhindered.
  
  The map making tools could definately be a lot better but as a game JointOps has stood the test 
 of time for me and I cannot wait to see what Novalogic have lined up (for PC) next.
  
  Remember that this is strictly a multi-player game (not counting a few good training missions) 
 so without LAN or Internet...
  
  Of course it is a LOT cheaper to buy Joint Ops and Escalation in the Combined Arms bundle. Recommended! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JINTHEAZN
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 24, 2006 10:01 pm PT
Review:  I got this for four bucks and of course worth the money. Most of the game is training and no singleplayer 
 just loads of training that nobody needs. Multiplayer is overrated too many cheaters. As gamespot 
 says this holds flaws. For example a inflatable boat goes faster than a black hawk and a chinhook. 
 The good things about this game is its freedom with helis.. you can get on top and just stay there 
 unlike other games where people run over you. Worth the money but if you like fps alot .. this 
 isn't for you.. This game really feels like a vietnam war game that people did not do so much research 
 on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ripcord23
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 13, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  I got this game right when it came out but the problem was i needed a new grapchics card! So i 
 got whan like 3 mounths later and began traning it wasent tell 3 more mounths tell i can play online 
 becous thats when i got DSL. When i started online it was great i was just glad to be part of the 
 game. But by the summer i was makeing small squads. In joint ops is foucised on tactical online combat. Witch 
 meens you can other players must fight your way using teem worck are you get killed by the other 
 teem. it is realy fun t ogo over tactics with your teemates and then go to the enemy island and 
 give em what you got. There are also many vehicels mainly for transport .as well as alot of guns 
 like the M-4 M-16 and you no like all the games. I wish they can update the game more though liek 
 add new maps with patches and stuff. This game is another whan i thoughs games you cant put down. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coastiery
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 5, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Joint Operations is a decent game that could have been much more had Nova Logic put the time into 
 it the game needed rather than focusing mostly its console titles. The basic idea is you have two 
 sides, Allies and Rebels. All the maps are Indonesian/Pacific-Asia based and are quite large in 
 size, making for a fun game environment. If you can get on a good server without the infamous hacks 
 who use all the Aimbot mods, etc., the game can be quite fun. The idea of the game is quite simple, 
 kill or be killed. There are a few different game modes:
  
  Co-op: Players vs. AI: There is usually some plot, like find the bomb or destroy X number of certain 
 items. A fun way to learn the ropes and practice your aim. The AI can be tough sometimes and they 
 don't miss on most maps. Custom Co-op maps are the best in this group for the most part.
  
  Team King of the Hill (TKH) : There is a zone outlined on the map which is the hill basically. Your 
 team has to control the zone for a certain amount of time to win or have controlled the zone for 
 the most amount of time by the end of the preset time limit. Clear all enemies out of the zone 
 and you'll knock their time back to 0:00.
  
  Advance and Secure (AS) : There are a various number of objective points, bunkers, etc. scattered 
 throughout the map labeled with a letter (A-Z) The object it to gain control all the control points 
 or be in control of the most when time expires. The team with the most people in that control point's 
 zone will either begin taking control of it by first destroying the enemy's hold on it or if you 
 already have it, you will retain it until the enemy can get more people in the zone.
  
  Team Deathmatch (TD) : Which ever team reaches the preset number of enemy kills first wins.
  
 
  Overall the game is worth the $20 you spend to buy it. You can often find the game (Typhoon Rising) 
 and the expansion (Escalation) bundled for $20, but you'll have to go to one of the trade-in stores 
 like EB or Game Stop. I haven't seen in a normal store like Best Buy in a little more than a year 
 now.
  
  After swearing the game off when the Battlefield series came out, I often find myself coming back 
 to JO mainly for the custom maps. If you have the patience, download the N. I. L. E. map editor and 
 crank out some custom designed maps. Those are always the most enjoyable. Well, like I said, if 
 you have $20 it's not a bad game, but remember you get what you pay for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jade_Monkey
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 16, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  Joints Ops has some really parts to it, but it has it's fair share of bad to. The sheer number 
 of maximum players per server is awesome and revolutionary, the weapon system is great, but the 
 errors pile up.
  
  The graphics on Joint Ops are by no means bad, but by no means great. Buildings look bland, grass 
 looks fake, when you get up close to another players face it shows a lack of detail. Gun models 
 look pretty good though.
  
  There is simply nothing like playing with 149 other people on a 50 square KM map. It's a lot of 
 fun to be had. Throw in the right mix of vehicles and this is one area Joint Ops shines. I love 
 how not only are you able to choose your class, but you can choose your exact weapon, and the sidearm, 
 and the grenades. Unlike Battlefield 2 where you take whatever weapons the class gives you. As 
 well you can decide how many clips of ammo to take with you. Another thing I like is that the sniper 
 class is difficult (at least to me) . You must adjust for wind and distance, something I haven't 
 seen in any FPS I have played before. Flying is also much easier in Joint Ops than in say Battlefield 
 2 (in my opinion) . I must also mention the sound of the guns is top notch. Joint Ops has the best 
 MP5 sound out there IMO.
  
  Now here for many of the problems. There are many lag issues at times that are not hardware related 
 or related to my internet connection. I believe it to be either Nova's servers, or the game code 
 itself. Why do I believe it to be this ? Every Novalogic game I have ever played has given me lag 
 issues online ranging from slight ones that I usually don't notice (BHD) to just plain bad (Delta 
 Force 2) . Joint Ops falls in between, it's not as bad as Delta Force 2, but worse than Black Hawk 
 Down. Also it would of been nice to have a parachute (this was remedied in the expansion) since 
 if you have to eject from a helicopter you had better be over water without one.
  
  Aside form the problems Joint Ops is still a very fun shooter. There is stat tracking, a good community 
 of players for the most part, many vehicles, and a good class system set up. If you haven't tried 
 the demo yet I would. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slannmage
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 13, 2006 5:07 am PT
Review:  Now when you look at this game everything is sooo wrong :\ The Art, the game engine, the sounds 
 and the maps are all done poorly. And yet the Game is more fun than anything that it comes up against 
 like BF2 for example.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  150 players fun, slower paced action to BF2. I love the day and night cycle, it's just perfect. 
 It's suprising how many people are willing to give you a lift and every vehicle is based on transport 
 rather than being overpowered and ruining the gameplay.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Poor at release and even worse now, the art work is horrible and holding a pistol looks sooo bad.
 
  
  Sound:
  
  Crap lol.
  
  Value:
  
  Great bargin now :P Very cheap 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrbojangles25
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  Joint Operations is a multiplayer first-person shooter where you can play online against up to 
 149 other people. Upon installing the game, you can start it up and then create a Novaworld account. 
 After this brief inconvenience, players can log into Novaworld and then browse among hundreds of 
 games, many of which have over 50 players in them.
  
  After finding a game that appeals, the player can join it and is then given a few options. He or 
 she can choose a side, consisting of either a allied team consisting of the United States and some 
 European countries, or the player can join the rebel paramilitary group, consisting of rebel Indonesian 
 natives. After choosing a team, the player must then choose a class and their weapons. The list 
 of weapons is huge: players can be a gunner and choose from an M60, M249, M240, PKM, and other 
 heavy machine guns. However, this loadout is heavy, and with a sidearm, grenades, and extra ammo 
 your player will be quite slow. If you want to play light and stealthy, then select the sniper 
 class and chose from a variety of rifles such ar the SR-25, Barrett .50 cal rifle, M40 bolt action, 
 and more. Only take a couple of claymore mines and a knife, and you have a character that can shoot 
 from 1000 meters away, yet can quickly relocate after each shot.
  
  Gameplay in JO is fairly typical, as there are two teams, and each team needs to take control of 
 certain capture points for a prolonged period of time before winning. In addition to the various 
 classes if foot soldiers, there are also vehicles to drive and fly, from Blackhawk Helicopters 
 to jeeps, and from APCs to hovercrafts. JO has one of the best physics systems ever portrayed in 
 a game. In addition to bodies flying everyone when a vehicle explodes, bullets react extremely 
 realistic. For example, when shooting a machine gun, the first few bullets are accurate but after 
 a second or two, they spray every where. WIth sniper rifles, bullets will actually drop every hundred 
 meters or so, so a marksmen needs to use his binoculars to find the range to target, and then actually 
 dial it into the scope on his rifle. This adds an incredable amount of depth to the game, and it 
 takes a while to truly master shooting any type of gun in the game.
  
  Graphically, JO is somewhat dated as it uses the same engine as is found in Novalogic's previous 
 Blackhawk Down games. Despite its age, however, enviornments look extremely good, and vegetation 
 is rendered beautifully, so it both looks good, and can also hide people. Character models are 
 also aequate, and guns look realistic enough. JO looks terrific, just dont expect any Battlefield 
 2 looks. Sound is also well done, as many guns sound really good and you actually get into the 
 game more: nothing is better than unloading with an M60, or hearing boom-CRACK! of a .50 cal shell 
 going 700 meters to a target. Also, vehicle sounds are well done... there is a nice whine noise 
 when a helicopter starts up, and an appropriate level of bass when the blades make the thwop thwop 
 thwop sound as they turn.
  
  While JO was released at a bad time and often often overlooked now that games such as Countertrike: 
 Source and Battlefield 2 have been released, this game is none-the-less a classic, and deserves 
 the huge communities that is found in other online shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arcticadvance
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 23, 2006 5:36 am PT
Review:  Joint Operations is set in indonesia, where an uprising has turned the country into military chaos. 
 The game itself has very little single player apart from the training (which you have to do unless 
 you want to die constantly) . The maps in this game are huge sprawling pieces of art. You will usually 
 have to ask a ride from one of the pilots if you want to go anywhere as it's almost impossible 
 on foot . The helicopters are the most entertaining vehicle in the game. You can sit in various 
 seats in the heli, control miniguns, or just stroll up and down while moving. One thing I've noticed 
 is that people like to get large groups of people in blackhawks to assault the enemy bass, i have 
 lost count of how many times I have seen a helicopter packed with players get shot down by a stinger 
 missile. Because of this, a lot of people now jump out of heli's into the sea (most maps are island 
 hoppers) , and then swim the rest of the way. The classes in Joint operations are rifleman, medic, 
 sniper, engineer and gunner. Snipers are overused in most games and about half the players become 
 snipers. A lot of players worst fear is that their bunker gets assaulted by a team of medics. The 
 engineers mortar can be the most irritating weapon in the game though, from over 700 feet away 
 you can be killed by the endless salvo of mortar fire that one engineer can lay down. Online play 
 can be the most challenging, and the most rewarding you'll ever experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lewis8888
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 22, 2006 6:25 am PT
Review:  Joint Operations-TR is an Excellent game is really does give you a great fill to realistic combat. 
 you can go anywhere at anytime. you could head way off the battlefield if you wanted to. as the 
 maps are so big.. online play is excellent with over 150 players online. there are a few bugs in 
 the online play but i don't blame them still for that 150 on-line is excellent.
  
  you have a wide range of weapons to choose from in joint operations. as you choose what side you 
 are willing to play as in combat. you can be the Joint operations side. a international force with 
 players all around the world. or you can be the rebels of Indonesia. Both sides are pretty even 
 though some are better at than the other with some things. the weapons are also fairly even. such 
 as an AT4 for the joint operations side and an Rpg for the Rebels.
  
  the Aircrafts in the game are easy to fly making a good game. as in most games what have any helicopters 
 or planes can be pretty hard to fly. but joint operations really does make it easy anyone can fly 
 really. and it is very fun to fly the heilcopters.
  
  the vehicles are also excellent from an APC to BTR. or a jeep. they are also easy to drive. the 
 Sea units are also pretty easy to use but are not seen as often in the battles as air and land 
 units. but the sea units are excellent to just raid an enemy Base but just firing a bunch of fire 
 at them. 
  
  Joint operations is an Excellent game is worth taking a look at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kittencrusher
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 8, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Forget Battlefield 2. If I had to pick a military FPS it would be Joint Ops hands down. The 100+ 
 player battles were a COMPLETE blast to play. Total chaos and mayhem. Unfortunately, now you're 
 lucky to get a 64 player match going. Which is really disappointing to me. Gone are the days of 
 the 100+ player battles. Even on peak hours you won't find much going on on the Novalogic servers.
 
  
  I blame it partially on lack of support by Novalogic, and the OUTRAGEOUS cost of hosting a game 
 server. It costs you about 500 smackers to run your own 150 player server. Nobody in their right 
 mind would do that unless they had cash coming out the wazoo. Thats why there's typically only 
 EVER been 2 or 3 150 player servers period.
  
  As for the game, it is very fun. The vehicles have an "arcade" style control, so if it's realism 
 you're looking for in your vehicles, you'll have to look elsewhere. But really, I'd rather just 
 be able to pilot a copter without having to be a rocket scientist, so this is a moot point with 
 me.
  
  The main mode of play that everybody plays is Advance And Secure, where you must hold down control 
 points on the map and defend them at all costs.
  
  This game IMHO was waaaay better than BF2. BF2 had graphics, but that was ALL that it had over 
 this game. But as I said, the game community is just dying a painful death so it's a little too 
 late to jump in, unless Novalogic breathes new life into it somehow; a second expansion perhaps 
 with a graphics upgrade? Who knows. But they need to do something cause I hate the fact that I 
 can't play my favorite military FPS anymore, or at least the way it used to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stu1515
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 24, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  This game was great!!!!
  
  Played the Demo all the time when it first came out, was alot better than any other type of this 
 game at the time, like Battlefield, and it still can go up there today against Battlefield.
  
  Shame i didnt buy it, i didnt think many people played it, so i never got it.
  
  The Game 
 had good weapons, veichles and was abit laggy to play if your PC/Net speed sucked, but if i had 
 it now with my boosted PC, it would be LOOOOVELY!
  
  I can only go on how the Demo was to play, but there were about 20 Demo Servers, that had alot 
 of players on each of them.
  
  So, if you thaught about buying this game, instead... wait for the Next Joint Operations game if 
 they make one.
  
  I'll be Stu|Gunstar on it.
  
  This game rocked! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 28, 2006 5:08 pm PT
Review:  This is a confusing game to review because im not really sure whats good and bad. I guess ill have 
 to break it down.
  The gameplay was nice, and the interfacing was good, so props to that.
  The community was good. There were many custom maps and people playing night and day. So another 
 good thing.
  The weapons and vehicles were fun to play with and have a bang just the way i like it. So again, 
 good.
  The major downers that i noticed were graphics, sound and physics. Major crucial aspects that i 
 felt were ignored to some degree.
  Firstly the gfx. When i loaded up, they seemed ok, but deifnetly not keeping up with modern expectations. 
 Were talking less impressive than UT2004 or some rainbow six games, etc. So dont expect a lot in 
 this department.
  The sound effects too were low. I didnt get that heart pounding explosives and crazy gun fire ricochetting 
 off walls around me. Not terrible, but not great either.
  Finally, and possibly the worst was the physics. AHH! Terrible. No ragdoll, no anti-collisions. 
 It was a mess, almost like they threw it together during the release of the game! Helicopters exploded 
 so unrealisticly, cars would go threw trees with a minor bump sound and movement. Not good.
  However, dont be turned away by this completely. The game still did offer some really cool gameplay 
 and FPS experience. I can still remember the fun i had, running threw the jungle, or down in trenches....
 
  I guess there are better alternatives like Battlefield 2 or some new games coming soon, but if 
 u want a good time for cheap, pick this and the xpack up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedSoxRebel
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 23, 2006 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Well I got this game a while ago and decided to write a review. This was my first FPS for the present 
 time and I excpected it to be like CoD with new weapons. Now even tho you couldnt pick weapons 
 up and there were no ranks it was a great experince. Maybe the best of my life. The Massive online 
 the huge maps. It was the first game to have all the vehicals or it seemed. Very easy to control. 
 It was all great and I just cant wait till the expansion is released.
  There is a huge expansion of weapons and skins. The vehicals are fun and endless. Even tho there 
 are no jets its still very fun. 
  
  I am now into BF2 and I wish some one would make the map of the Twin Island maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoostyle
Rating: 8
Date: May 10, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Yeah I picked this up when it came out in (04?) or so and I was very pleased generally with the 
 overall play and value of this MP game.
  
  Set in a future conflict involving Indonesia and the major world powers (UK US, Germany etc) the 
 game places you and a MASSIVE amount of possible players on huge maps spread out over various islands. 
 I mean when there are battles going on you will feel part of the scope of it, way bigger than BF2 
 or BF1942 ever could be. 
  
  The graphics are great (if not a little on the cartoonish side) and the people with Novalogic did 
 a great job of allowing this game to run on even average PC's even more possible than with BF2. 
 I even heard the game is forgiving with a 56K connection (which I can't really believe but ok) 
 When I upgraded my vid card last July I cranked up the settings here and I got beautiful rich green 
 jungle foliage, impressive stone temples, shimmering water and waterfalls. The weapons models were 
 not THAT great but ok. Same with the CHR models of your choice of Allied soldiers or the Rebel 
 Insurgency-which are pretty good but still a little on the "thin" side. 
  
  Sound too, suffers here. Almost all of the vehicles, guns, rockets, sniper rifles sound pretty 
 tiny and have no real boom to them (like BF) plus you feel like everything is much too light and 
 floaty (like Xbox BF) ... I was good with this game until BF2 came out and then I just uninstalled 
 it, had to make more room on my HD! : )
  
  This version of the game (an expansion "Escalation" would follow) has just light infantry: Small 
 units, light armor (like Stryker and BTR-80's) little birds, Black hawks and the like, plus ATV's 
 and the like. The heavy stuff would come later on as the conflict escalated into a larger intervention 
 by the allied forces.
  
  All in all, a great MP experience, although tons of times I would just be trying to "run to the 
 sound of the guns" only to find the battle was still further further away! A bit frustrating, I 
 did enjoy being a Helo pilot and ferry troops to the battlefield but your tail will get shot down.... 
 ALOT! Lol Aircraft here in this game suffered more than in their BF counterparts world! Lol
  
  Pick it up, still a keeper!
  
  "YoooooHooooo!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 22, 2006 4:49 pm PT
Review:  How many online shooters have you ever played where you can get together 150 other like minded 
 people to enjoy together a blast of modern warfare?
  
  This game is getting a little old now, it has been around for about a year longer than BF2 (it's 
 main rival) and is begining to show it's age but the developers are still looking after it and 
 it has recently been released on a white label for a fraction of it's original cost.
  
  There is not much more to say I am afraid. This is a great combat game that not only looks good 
 but has the capacity to host a lot of people on a single map which makes for some pretty spectacular 
 battles.
  
  At it's current price, it has to be given a try I think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdhnightwolf
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 27, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  When this game first came out, I thought it was going to be a Battlefield killer. Not quite. The 
 game is a lot of fun, the levels are quite big and the weapon selection is pretty good. The different 
 vehicles that can be manned is pretty decent and everything looks pretty good.
  
  However, the game has a ton of keys to master, almost too many. The only way to connect is through 
 novalogic's server list and getting a server can be a royal pain. The game was fun for a while, 
 but with such a big hype going into it as a BF killer, I was just extremely let down with the game.
 
  
  The vehicles really don't handle well.... they almost feel clunky and boxy. Playing coop missions 
 is probably one of the best things this game has. I had fun while it was new, but that newness 
 just wore off too quickly.
  
  Might be a good game for some, it's just not for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marriage0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2006 6:09 am PT
Review:  i simply love tis game. it may not have the gretest grpahics ever but i dont care, ther gameplay 
 is smooth and online it is fun as hell. the lag (for me) is minimal, even with a lot of players 
 in the game and seen as you can have up to 150 it gets mental. the guns are good, the shooting 
 system is good and not too hard. you dont have to be awesome att his game to rack up a number of 
 kills either, it is quite easy to get the hang of and with big maps, you can take your time to 
 get a great sniper position or you can runn in with you heavy machine gun with all your bullets 
 flying. wither way, this is a great experience online. buy it! (it is only like 5 too) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frost6969
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 15, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  This game was great. I'd say the only real let down was well being killed in like 10 seconds after 
 you respawn from like just random gun fire or explosions. Well also sometimes when you kill and 
 enemy they commit suicied and cheat you out of your kill which makes a erson mad. The Sniping is 
 great to but yet like all games like this sometimes when you know you hit the other sniper because 
 you are so close but don't and get killed reloading another bullet. But it is really realistic 
 with the distance because the further they are the more the bullet will be off in the scope due 
 to gravity. Sometimes though with respawing I have died from falling because of just where they 
 respawned you so that kind of sucks when that happens. The helocpters are a fast way to get around 
 just make sure you have someone who knows how to use flairs. Other then all of that it is a fun 
 game. The areas are freaky big. You can change weapons at anytime at your bases. If you want to 
 get your first person shooter skills up this is the game to do it with. And his is one of the few 
 online games out there that is free so enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferrari20091
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 4, 2006 7:07 am PT
Review:  Joint Operations: typhoon rising is an online multiplayer game, kindof like battle field 2. The 
 game is very innovative and FUN!!! You can be a veriety of different troops with many different 
 weapons. There are many vehicles in the game including helicopters, boats, transports, jeeps and 
 tanks . You must work together with your teammates to capture bases set up all throughout the map!! 
 The Graphics are pretty good as long as you turn everything to high. THe game play in the game 
 is its greatest feature. THe way the game is set up the way you spawn, pick weapons, drive vehicles, 
 and battle makes the game very enjoyable. It does have a few flaws but all over all is a very great 
 game to buy, and play!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johny1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 3, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Best coop gaming of 2004. Great multiplayer. Easy learning curve. Anyone can fly choppers. FUN. 
 TONS of user made maps.
  
  Joint Operations is all that and then some. The disapointing support from the publisher (Novalogic) 
 is sad, when it could have milked this license with an expansion every 6 month, but mods are finally 
 coming out (after long fights with Novalogic, of course) . 
  
  If you enjoy playing cooperatively, get this game NOW. You can actually play cooperatively woth 
 a dozen fellows if you feel like it on some of the user made maps. It's hard to believe, and let 
 me tell you it never disappoints. 
  
  Head to www. dfbarracks. com if you need maps. LOTS of them. And they're rated. 
  
  It's a game 
 that easilly learned, including the choppers (hint to Battelfield 2) , and that will take you places 
 to shoot away the bad people. 
  
  On a plus note, it's not a demanding game in terms of ressources it takes from you PC, so if you 
 are not an early and often upgrader, this probably will still work for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom1327
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  As in most team-based shooters, in Joint Ops, you choose a character class to play, each with its 
 own distinct weapons and equipment. The rifleman gets the rocket launcher, which is useful against 
 vehicles, and he can also choose between a variety of assault rifles and grenades. The gunner has 
 access to the heavy machine guns that can lay down suppressive fire. The engineer gets some basic 
 rifle choices, but he can choose between the Stinger antiaircraft missile and the mortar, which 
 can rain down a devastating barrage. The sniper gets the sniper rifles and the target designator; 
 if a sniper designates a target for a mortar-equipped engineer, the mortar fire becomes devastatingly 
 accurate. And then there's the medic class, which can heal teammates and also revive fallen allies 
 on the battlefield. All the classes are designed to complement each other, and a well-balanced 
 team is preferable to a team made up primarily of snipers, for instance.
  
  You can also choose to forgo some of the secondary weapons and tweak your ammunition load in order 
 to lighten your encumbrance. Joint Operations takes into account the amount of weight in weapons 
 and ammunition that you carry, so a lightly encumbered player can run faster than a heavily encumbered 
 one. It's an interesting trade-off, because there are moments in the game when it's useful to be 
 able to run faster than everyone else -- to make a sprint for the helicopter, for example -- but there 
 are other moments when you'd give your left arm for a Stinger to shoot down a helicopter dogging 
 you, or to have a rocket-propelled grenade knock out the Stryker personnel carrier being used as 
 a floating gun platform near your base. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 3, 2006 2:34 am PT
Review:  Just when jaded First Person Shooter fans start to yawn because their favorite genre seems to have 
 no new tricks, along comes Novalogic with a kilo of speed in a box. Well, sort of. Joint Operations: 
 Typhoon Rising (JOTR) , the latest effort from the boys and girls at Novalogic, is like the old 
 nursery rhyme: Something old, and something new; something borrowed, and something blue. But 
 the sum totally rocks, if you like hybrid tactical-arcade, multi-player only shooters.
  
  The story of JOTR would be thin for a movie script or a Tom Clancy novel, but it is plenty for 
 fans of Novalogics Delta Force series of shooters. There is a slightly more elaborate explanation, 
 but the nuts and bolts are this simple: let loose in the jungles and small cities of Indonesia, 
 your mission is to find the enemy and kill him; kill him any way you can.
  
  You do your killing as a member of an international team of ass kickers named Joint Operations, 
 or as a rebel, also known as walking targets. I say that because rebel snipers dont get to camouflage 
 themselves in cool ghillie suits like their Joint Ops counterparts.
  
  You can outfit yourself for the Joint Ops team as United States Delta Force, U. S. Navy SEALs, U. S. 
 Green Berets, British Special Air Service, German Kommando Spezialkraefte, French GIGN, Russian 
 Spetsnaz, Indonesian Kopassus, or Australian Special Air Service Regiment. On the rebel side the 
 choices are limited to two: ex-military or separatist.
  
  This was momentarily befuddling. I cant be sure of the difference, but I would guess the separatists 
 were once draft dodgers given an offer they couldnt refuse: lose their heads or join the insurgency. 
 The important thing is theyre working together now, so take your choice.
  
  On both teams you get to pick your specialty from a list of what Novalogic calls character classes. 
 You can be a rifleman, sniper, gunner, medic or engineer. Depending on which character class you 
 choose, your weapons load-out will be somewhat different. You can choose fewer weapons and accessories 
 than you get in the default load-out. If you do, JOTR enables you to actually move faster on foot 
 due to the weight differentiala nice realistic touch.
  
  Another nice touch is not being stuck with your initial choice of character class. You can change 
 it in-game at an armory. The armories, by the way, look suspiciously like the ones in Novalogics 
 previous shooter Delta Force: Black Hawk Down. Actually, they are exactly like BHD, which is what 
 I mean by something borrowed.
  
  The fun in JOTRs simple raison dtre is how you find and kill the enemy. While most military 
 shooters promise cooperative game play and tactics, JOTR actually delivers. The game is set up 
 to allow the gamer to earn points for team play. If you want to earn a high individual score and 
 see your team win, you will need to work together. Play as a medic and patch someone up and you 
 earn points. Operate a vehicle and pick up buddies who kill the enemy and you get points.
  
  The selection of vehicles to drive, fly or pilot on the waterways is impressive. Armor, aircraft, 
 watercraft and amphibious vehicles are available for both sides. And the vehicles are easier to 
 use than those in Battlefield 1942. Actually, almost everything about JOTR is more impressive than 
 BF42. The maps in JOTR are gigantic, with most being fifty square kilometers. This makes foot travel 
 unattractive and vehicle travel practically essential  at least until respawn points closer to 
 the fight become available.
  
  The size of JOTRs maps also makes air travel a sensible and realistic tactic. One of the nutty 
 and frustrating things about BF42 is the ability to fly a plane or jet on maps so tiny you have 
 to turn sharply within seconds of takeoff to avoid a penalty for going out of bounds. You shouldnt 
 have that problem in JOTR. The maps are huge, and air travel is limited to helicopters.
  
  JOTR enables you to score points in various ways, which enhances game play significantly. Killing 
 an enemy - by blade, grenade, claymore, satchel charge, or bullet - is obvious. You also get points 
 for killing two people with one shot (almost impossible) , killing someone with a head shot (very 
 possible) , saving a dying teammate as a medic, transporting buddies who score kills (within a time 
 limit) , staying in a control zone, and seizing a PSP or progressive spawn point.
  
  You lose points for getting killed by the enemy, and for suicide, fratricide, or reckless driving/flying, 
 especially if your passengers are killed, so buckle your seatbelt when operating a vehicle and 
 watch out for that palm tree.
  
  Be aware that game play can be frustrating for everyone, and not just for noobs. The size of the 
 maps, denseness of the jungle and mountain terrain, and the overall fog of war sometimes makes 
 it nearly impossible to see the enemy before its too late. So thick is the jungle grass in some 
 places that were an enemy soldier to go prone you could easily step on his head while trying to 
 find him and get shot or stabbed in the nads before you know what hit you.
  
  The same environment makes sniping extremely popular. JOTR makes it easy to deal out death from 
 long distance, if you have the proper equipment. However, over extremely long distances, you must 
 factor in the limits of your weaponry, which means elevation and deflection have to be considered. 
 On really long distance shots you may have to aim a foot or two above the heads of stationary targets, 
 or a few feet ahead of moving targets.
  
  Being a sniper may be fun but it can be tough for a sniper to rack up the highest individual score. 
 If youre sniping (or camping) you arent scoring points by patching up wounded comrades, transporting 
 teammates, or seizing PSPs.
  
  If youre the victim of a sniper, most of the time you will never see where the shot originated. 
 You may not even hear it. It can be an aggravating experience to slog on foot for what seems like 
 an hour because there are no vehicles around, only to get plugged silently and placed several miles 
 back at the default spawn point, especially when it happens over and over again. So if you relish 
 Counterstrike-like run and gun over more realistic tactics, JOTR may not be your cup of tea.
  
  The graphics in JOTR are outstanding. While they are not quite on the level of Far Cry, they 
 are superior to the graphics in BHD. With such excellent graphics, and game play that can include 
 up to 150 players on one server, some minor lag issues on less than top notch hardware should be 
 expected. I have a two and a half-year old processor, but I experienced relatively smooth game 
 play most of the time. A kick-ass video card seems to be more important than the CPU, but thats 
 just my opinion.
  
  There are other issues with JOTR that are sure to annoy the heck out of some gamers. For example, 
 it is almost impossible to wreck a vehicle, including a helicopter. I slammed one into a hill and 
 slid it down the mountainside without damage, then took off again. You can sink a land vehicle 
 in the water but you cant really destroy it. I took a plunge off a bridge in a jeep and lived 
 to tell about it. About the only way to wreck a vehicle is for the enemy to blow it up.
  
  Camping out at a spawn point is too damn easy. Nothing irks a dedicated gamer in this genre more 
 than to respawn ten times in a row at the same spot only to be taken out faster than you can draw 
 a breath.
  
  And it doesnt seem to be very easy to kill the enemy by running him over with a vehicle. I ran 
 over an enemy combatant with a BTR and all he did was laugh at me. Then he shot me in the back 
 of the head. On other occasions I got the result I was looking for. This was very inconsistent.
 
  
  There isnt much else to say about JOTR. In many ways it repeats the feeling of playing BHD, except 
 the graphics are significantly enhanced and you can operate vehicles. Where JOTR shines is multiplayer. 
 There are no single-player campaigns like those available in BHD. JOTR does a better job of facilitating 
 team play than anything I have ever experienced. And you can set up the game so that after a long 
 period of play the sky will change from late afternoon to dusk and then night time.
  
  The only major potential negative to JOTR is the absence of a complete single player mode. Sometimes 
 I want to boot up a favorite game and have fun without going online. I confess to playing BF42, 
 the main competition for JOTR, more often in single-player than I do multi-player. But that may 
 also be more of a reflection on the shortcomings of BF42s multi-player mode than the positive 
 aspects of the single-player game.
  
  Ultimately, Joint Operations: Typhoon Rising is so good you probably wont care about the absence 
 of a true single-player experience. Youll be too busy cursing snipers, seizing PSPs, and shooting 
 the enemy in the nads for stepping on your head.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrialRevluc
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 26, 2005 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Typhoon Rising is an excellent multi-player game. I thought , "So what? Another game to play on 
 the net!" I was WRONG!!!
  
  The maps are incredible and the game play is intense. I really enjoy laying the smack on other 
 teams in this game. I also like the way other teams lay the smack down on the team I play on.
 
  
  Nova Logic has done the genre justice. At least it isn't Comanche! What was that all about , anyway?
 
  
  The graphics are great, the game play engrossing, and I looked forward to much chaos in the computer 
 gaming domain called Joint Operations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_K
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 21, 2005 2:05 pm PT
Review:  I have to say I was a little concerned about this game considering some of the disappointments 
 I had with some of the Delta Force series, but Joint Ops: Typhoon Rising has been a multi-player 
 thrill. Fast paced, descent graphics and sounds, and of course the co-op play against computer 
 AI is really fun to play. It runs smoothly on even lower end systems so this is a plus for some 
 gamers. I would definately recommend getting the latest patch, it will make a real difference for 
 slower computers and of course fixes alot of multi-player issues and bugs. I recommend this game 
 for anyone who enjoys shooters of the war themed experience!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: igl
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 1, 2005 11:44 am PT
Review:  First of all, this product is full of bugs, but at least it installs and connects you to a server 
 properly!
  You cant form squads but when you know your buddys its very much fun playing together, especially 
 since the medic is the most powerful unit in this game (NOT the tank. Which can be a quite enjoying 
 fact.) to keep your team together.
  Infantry vs. Vehicle combat is very good balanced and can be enjoyed with both.
  I automaticly 
 also suggest to get the expension, since it does so much things better. Now there is not much more 
 good to say about it though.
  I had much fun with it for a while.
  
  JO also was the reason i looked into BF2. (I usually just ignore "realistic" war-FPS) and BF2 completly 
 failed my taste looking from the FPS point of view. (BF2=Tank simulator.)
  Oh yea and EA ripped off a few of ideas from this game and adapted them in BF2. Like the scoring 
 works the same as shown here already and medal and badges were also already available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogoplexiorayo
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 3, 2005 6:49 am PT
Review:  Joint ops has it mistakes but you wont care when you play. 
  
  Ok joint ops is a game built by nova you can either play as the indonesian rebels or Joint ops 
 that means the JO team you can play as usa, england, australia, germany, indoniesians, russians, 
 and the french. 
  
  There are plenty of stuff you can pick out before playing. Weapon classes how you characther look 
 and more. The training missions are boring so dont play them the AI is bad and frustrating. You 
 will just learn basic stuff like firing mortar, sniping, how too ride different vehicles. But all 
 of the vehicles are very easy too use. 
  
  The multiplayer is the big thing of course. Here you can play on servers with up too 150 players. 
 Its absolutely amazing too play with 149 other dudes. Its action almost all the time. There are 
 also coop missions too play but the ai are boring and frustrating. There are several other stuff 
 too do like playing match types like Team deathmatch, deathmatch, search and destroy, attack and 
 defend and of course team king of the hill. The new AAS is the best. 
  
  The graphics: look pretty good. The weapons looks pretty good. And the forest and houses and everything 
 looks pretty good. The characthers faces are higly detailed and stuff. But even when the graphics 
 look good were all seen better then this the graphics is good and great. 
  
  This game is exstra frustrating when you need too go 3 min or something and when you almost there 
 you get shot by a sniper this is actually pretty boring. And there are plenty of glitches and stuff, 
 and sometimes your trying to climb a ladder you cant go anywhere because theres a glitch. If these 
 mistakes would have been fixed this game would have get 10 gameplay.
  
  The sound is pretty good i love hearing the sounds of birds and frogs, i loved listening too the 
 wind and stuff. and the beatiful rain sounds. absoulutely amazing. But the weapons sounds are horrible 
 the weapons sound like a toy. And it doesnt seem like they have power at all. Nova never going 
 too fix the sounds of the weapons anyway. 
  
  Youll get so much for you cash here this game is so fun the day and night changes are great. Its 
 so fun on multiplayer its action all the time sometimes the sound of the rain and stuff are great. 
 The weapon sounds are horrible it can be frustrating too walk 3 miles and get shot by a sniper. 
 But hopefully you will enjoy this game like i did. 
  
  I had a little bit more fun with Delta force bhd. But im still having a good time. So why dont 
 pick up the game even if its 1 and a half years old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vidbusters
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 2, 2005 10:39 pm PT
Review:  We need more WWII games and other warfare games to get to this level.
  
  This game is a must-have.
  
  The sounds, such as automatic voice-overs help add a lot here. 
 Even better would be to have VOIP integrated into the game - a feature that has seemed to fall 
 to the wayside in a lot of PC games.
  
  The surround sound and the sound quality overall is great.
  
  The vehicles, such as the tanks, 
 jeeps, boats and aircraft simply rock. They are easy to use and effective. Also, extra people can 
 "jump on" without any issues of the craft being "full" - if you can fit, you are on.
  
  Only thing this game is missing is a little more blood and gore when you slaughter your prey. Otherwise, 
 the weapons and the gameplay are top notch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nichojinx
Rating: 4.7
Date: Nov 1, 2005 12:09 pm PT
Review:  This game sports a hugely diverse range of players. Some play it for the realistic graphics and 
 because you drive stuff and fly little-birds. Others play it because it gives them a chance to 
 expereience what it's like to seamless go from riding or flying a chopper to fighting a large group 
 of enemy players in the distance. However, that may not be the only draw back to this game. You 
 will have zone campers, spawn campers, knifers, laggers, cheaters and just all around wackos on 
 there to start crap. This is common in most FPS games online. But the up-side to Novalogic is that 
 they do enforce rules against cheating. However Punkbuster has proven to be an ineffective combatant 
 form of control over the problem in the past. Another drawback to this game is there are no singleplayer 
 missions. There are training missions which feel more like tutorials on how to use the large arsenal 
 or weapons in the game. Overall if you don't have a huge ego and don't mind running into a couple 
 of cheaters here and there, you may enjoy this game. But for the most part I am not recommending 
 this game. The Apache 4 game engine is not a very stable engine by any means. Novalogic shouldn't 
 have even bothered with this one... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dolby510
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 30, 2005 7:21 pm PT
Review:  When I first bought my copy of Joint Ops, I was a bit skeptical whether or not I would enjoy it. 
 I was purchasing it based on the recommendation of a few friends, and to be honest with you I was 
 a bit disapointed. The graphics were a bit mediocre at first , but after a while it does indeed 
 grow on you. 
  
  First of all, the thought of 150 people all playing in one map with no load points is absolutely 
 amazing in my honest opinion. I really enjoyed having multiple battles being fought simultaneously, 
 and have never felt more more like a soldier; fighting his/her way through the jungle, seeking 
 out and destroying hidden enemies.
  
  Another really cool feature of the game is the teamwork that is involved. If your playing with 
 the right people, that utilize this feature well, then you really can get alot done. Form squads, 
 and formulate tactics to taking your enemy by surprise and achieving the objective at hand.
  
  As for the vehicles, they are a great addition, and are unquestionably a vital tool in the 
 game. Most maps in this game present real-time distances, so however long it would take you to 
 walk or swim 5 or 6 km in real life... will take you the exact same time in Joint Ops. As much as 
 the vehicles are a benifit, they're just as much of a pain. Alot of them are really REALLY glitchy, 
 as is most of the game and this can cause you some deaths.
  
  One of the all-time worst things about this game is the close-distance landscape rendering! You 
 can be totally covered by the surrounding foliage, but in your enemies perspective... your sitting 
 in the middle of a freshly mowed lawn. It throws off players belief that they're secure where they 
 are, and what I found to be one of the worst parts to this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AKS_74U
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 28, 2005 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Joint Operations typhoon rising was released June 15 2004. When It first came out it was popular 
 8000 people maybe. Now there is about 2000 people playing. This game is addictive, its really sweet 
 that you and your buddies can sneak around the warzone in the bushes and ambush people. Its great 
 that in this game no one hogs the vechiles, there is a good amount of vechiles so no one rushes 
 for the best ones. The only problem with this game is that theres alot of bugs and glitches. This 
 goes against the game. Overall I recomend giving this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodMode
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 16, 2005 10:12 pm PT
Review:  Joint Ops is a basic pick up and play fragfest. One BIG problem with this game is it has almost 
 no close range battles. Also the games video sometimes messes up terribly. And the lag in this 
 game can be tremendously bad at times. The graphics are good enough to get by on. Another thing 
 some people might not like is that there is a LOT of running in this game. Sometimes the game is 
 fun sometimes it's not. It's just that it seems to be just for a person who likes long range combat. 
 What this game does have though is a GREAT assortment of vehicles and Weapons. It's funny though 
 because the SAW can hit like a sniper rifle from far away if you know how to aim it. This game 
 can be fun but, it has no single player campaign and the tutorials are pretty much dull just like 
 any other game. I do have fun though taking men up in heli's and having them rain fire down on 
 the enemy. What i'm trying to say is that this game can be fun and sometimes not. It's your choice 
 to pick it up or not i don't know what kind of person you are. Good Luck and have Fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShaneytheTiny
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 13, 2005 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Though it may seem dated now it's still alot of fun, but I'd suggest BF2 first. I personaly would 
 love a game with more coordination which is why I got BF 2 but if you can find some good people 
 load them in a Heli your all good. But if you love the chaos of uber fake war this is the game 
 for you. I think my favorite part of this game is it's the same engine as all Novalogic games which 
 really makes them linked. Overall great game. The downside as I said is too much chaos, but I suppose 
 all games seem to be like that but if you find one that's not do tell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A7Xfan
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 13, 2005 10:56 pm PT
Review:  Whats great about this game is everything is done by a human player. So there's no fake explosions 
 to create suspense, no generic computer responses to your questions, or added battle effects in 
 the audio. No, this game is all done by human players, so the sounds of explosions make you be 
 a little more careful, bullets flying around are a real obstacle, and that guy who you didn't kill 
 might come back to get you sooner then you think. In this sense it's very realistic and immersive.
 
  
  Where this game falls is in the lag department... Just say its absolutely horrible, often times 
 basically unplayable.
  
  The audio/visual side of this game is fairly solid. The game looks pretty good the faces, while 
 not that animated look real good. The bump mapping though is clearly noticable, grass blades just 
 kind of pop up when you get within 20 or 30 feet. 
  The game sounds fine, its got a cool menu song and thats it for music. It does have positional 
 sound that is very important to this game. (That's not so much of a bonus as it is a necessity) 
 Other then that menu song, some ambience effects, (crickets chirping, water, etc.) and a narrator 
 who reads instructions to you during training, its basically just all the sounds you usually hear 
 whenever firing a gun, starting up a boat, beeping a horn, or having commands yelled out. When 
 that stuff all comes together its pretty cool, but once again thats because all the sounds like 
 the gunfire are man made and very real in giving you a sense of whats going on around you.
  
  I like this game alot but after seeing Battlefield 2 in all its glory i might switch over and 
 start playing that. This game has some "command your fire team" type options but they aren't used 
 nearly like they should and 90% of the players just ignore you the rest usually say they dont want 
 to join, or laugh at you...
  
  So its fun but the whole 150 players at once on massive maps just isn't enough to keep up with 
 Battlefield 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L33tBudDha
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 27, 2005 8:25 pm PT
Review:  the good:
  
  1) story / setting: there's no single player mode to this game accept the training missions which 
 are fun but not the selling point of this game. the multi player is what joint ops focuses on and 
 i do like the setting and brief story. you are in indonesia which is a nice change from all the 
 ww2 fps games or the sci-fi settings of other fps games. the weapons look and handle better than 
 most of the other games with a far more "real" feel to them.
  
  2) multi-player: the biggest selling point to joint ops is it's ability to host up to 150 players. 
 joint ops was not marketed very well imo but there are enough gamers who jumped on board to fillup 
 a 150 server during prime time hours. the game modes are awesome and a ton of fun. there is much 
 emphisis on team work in this game as being the lone gun-man will only serve to get you owned. 
 maps have a great amountof detail including many interesting ways to attack and defend areas of 
 importance.
  
  3) maps: as far as war games go in the fps genre these are the best maps i have ever played. they 
 are lush with lots of detail. the graphics are not the highest quality you will ever find but they 
 colors they used and how they worked the artwork makes the graphics in this game superior to a 
 few of the boastfull high-end graphical packages like far cry or half-life 2. the maps are huge 
 and filled with "cool" little things like rice patties that you can swim through and really make 
 for spotting enemies difficult.
  
  4) day & night: joint ops does a great job at slowly changing day into night and night into day 
 and you feel it happening. in joint ops you have to adjust heavily for the change in time and it 
 adds to the game greatly.
  
  5) challenge: to become a competitive player in joint ops will take skill. this is not a load it 
 up and blow *&^% up game. this is a game where one player who gets 100 kills in one round being 
 the difference between your team winning or losing. you have to learn how to use the character 
 classes in this game and use teamwork.
  
  6) co-op: more fps games need this. joint ops fps is good but i wish you could do more adjusting 
 on the amount of enemies and their level of diffculty without having to "mod" the game.
  
  7) vehicles: there are a ton of vehicles in this game and many maps allow for all of your favorit 
 types meaning water, land, AND air vehicls all in the same map. you get almost any kind of vehicle 
 you can think of and it's a BLAST to drive and gun them. you are not safe in them either as pretty 
 much every other fps allows. you can and will die while gunning or even driving. bullets fly through 
 glass in this game and a gunner is not protected by some imaginary armor you are fully exposed. 
 and vehicles play a HUGE part in multiplayer maps where you need to get from point A to point B 
 as fast as you can where foot takes you several minutes and you die as opposed to a minute in a 
 vehicle... then die.
  
  8) graphics: graphics are great. they game doesn't have far cry or doom 3 callibur graphics where 
 your video chip will pass out but they make up for it in great artwork and design. you will see 
 lush jungles and forests, shores, beaches, villages in the middle of no where and man do they look 
 like it to!
  
  the bad: 
  
  1) death: yes death is a bad thing, really? in this case i refer to the ability to die not death 
 it self. you die very quickly in this game and it will take even the most advanced gamer considerable 
 time to figure out how to stay alive. one shot seems to be all it takes to send you to the ground. 
 shrapnel is about all you can take without collapsing imediatly. this does add realism to the game 
 but i think too much. a bullet from some of the weapons in the game would not penetrate kevlar 
 from long range or even kill a man without kevlar as easily as this game dictates. when you first 
 play the game you will die A LOT.
  
  2) co-op AI: they didn't include a way to up the amount of enemies you face in co-op without modding 
 the game really. co-op can be very easy and joint ops could have been a game who's value is unmatched 
 if you could have done this.
  
  3) exposure and number of gamers: the word got out but not pushed hard about joint ops. the amount 
 of advertising i think was weak and could have really made joint ops a game mentioned with the 
 likes of counter-strike. you will find plenty of players just not the enormous amount many of us 
 are used to from playing some of the other big boys.
  
  the ugly:
  
  1) lag: there are times on a busy server you will get some realy bizzarer things happening. respawning 
 in odd places, vehicles warping, players dying, guns not firing, things crashing, this can be a 
 problem at times. doesn't happen to the point where you throw your monitor at the wall though which 
 is a good thing.
  
  
  bottom line about joint ops is thatyou will have incredible fun playing this game with friends. 
 this is also the best lan party fps i know of. with co-op and the huge maps it's easily a winner 
 at any lan party. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peltz999
Rating: 4.7
Date: Apr 24, 2005 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Putting alot of ppl in one server is an ambitious task and the game succeeds in it quite well, 
 if you have a computer that has what it takes, then the game runs fine with almost no hardware 
 lag. The physics of the game are quite good, vehicles sometimes tend to do something quite the 
 opposite you want or it should but most of the time they work fine.
  
  But the biggest drawback of the game is actually the gameplay itself. People who are used to gamespeeds 
 like in Devastation or UT or quake or even Wolfenstein, in JO the gamespeed is reduced to that 
 of a turtle. After 2mins of running you get shot by a bush camper and thats that. But thats ok, 
 happens alot in the game, JO tends to develop at times the same syndrom as in wolfenstein where 
 everyone wants to be a medic but in this case its that everyone wants to be a sniper.
  The biggest problem is the overall confusion and lack of coordination. Most of the time yer just 
 wandering along alone hoping some friendly player will pick you up but usually ends in "Get out 
 you noob" no matter that the vehicle is empty. Atleast the copter pilots know what they are doing 
 but copters get shot to s**t quite quickly so travelling on the ground is a bit safer.
  Do not expect teamplay as in UT2004 or Wolf ET or in most other games. Only a handful ppl make 
 an effort to actually accomplish something. 
  
  Final comment: Nothing special, the game has nothing that hasnt been done before. The game has 
 nothing new to contribute to the genre either. Better luck next time Novalogic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrustyKids
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 11, 2005 10:29 pm PT
Review:  I am going to tell you all about Joint Ops and why you should buy it. Well to start Joint Operations 
 is an online only game but has a training on the online mode there are 4 different types of games 
 TDM, ASS, COOP and TKOTH. Okay TDM is team deathmatch ASS is like capture the flag but you take 
 over the opponents base as a team COOP is like single player you play with other people online 
 against the computer and last TKOTH that is team king of the hill the title explains it all.
  In Joint Ops you can be 2 different teams the rebels and the Joint Ops team and the rebels are 
 Indonesians and the joint ops are basically the United States. Joint Ops has a large Variety of 
 weapons it has pistols, shotguns, rocket launchers, machine guns, snipers you name it also here 
 are a few vehicles like jeeps, helicopters, boats and apcs of course there are more a different 
 kinds of them. The controls are simple in joint ops and you can reconfigure them easily driving 
 the vehicles is very easy there is about 4 keys to drive almost anything you can get the hang of 
 them all most instantly. The last thing I want to tell you about Joint Ops itself is it has audio 
 commands you click a button and you give out orders like move out and I need a medic they are 
 just a cool little thing for communicating as is the chat function.
  
  
  The Battlefield Games have been beaten! Joint Operations Typhoon rising is a game but it has its 
 faults. One of the few faults in this game is it takes awhile to get into the game and I would 
 say it should take you an hour or 2 to get into it but when you do youll be playing for months. 
 Another problem with Joint Operations is that its got a lot of glitches these normally consist 
 of bullets missing people, able to walk through part of a wall and other things luckily Novalogic 
 fixes these problems within a few months.
  
  Okay thats enough said about this games flaws lets get down to the good stuff. Okay the games 
 graphics are descent somethings can look a bit corny but the game has some great visuals but doesnt 
 go into the finest details. The games sounds are great the boats and cars sound and all the bullets 
 flying by are good but the car horn sounds like a babys toy steering wheel. Now Joint Ops has 
 great value Its now only $15.00 and has great graphics, sound and gameplay so its a lot for your 
 money and not a disappointment. The game play for Joint Operations Is great you can set up teams 
 in the middle of the game you use teamwork to take people out or you can just go solo and attack 
 the other team by yourself.
  
  Overall a great game with good graphics sound and gameplay it is fun and you wont get bored for 
 a while if you buy joint ops for as low as 15 bucks and thats great value for a game as good as 
 this. My rating 9.3.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Banankraken
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 5, 2005 2:38 am PT
Review:  I bought the game a few months ago. And no, I'm not reviewing it first now cause I've been busy 
 playing it. Quite the opposite. I played it for the crazy amount of two days!
  
  The game doesn't have an identity. It feels anonymous. I don't know why this is. But all other 
 games from Novalogic I've tried is the same. They simply lack something, they feel flat. The game 
 does a couple of things right. The more confined basestealing, or whatever you'd like to call it, 
 also confines the fights to a smaller area, making the game more intense, more firefights and action 
 than driving around at random. It also at least makes the game appear to feature better teamwork. 
 Other than this the game is bland. I can't put my finger on it, it just feels uninspired. One negative 
 I can mention though is that the vehicles are absolute garbage. Landbased ones are buggy as hell 
 and make no sense to drive. Choppers are extremely arcady and flying them pretty much consists 
 of going left right, up or down. Way too rigid and dull.
  
  I got reminded by reading other reader reviews. The eternal going back to the firefight once you've 
 been killed and respawn is extremely tedious and frustrating. Especially when you can't get your 
 hands on a vehicle.
  
  BF1942 or Vietnam are more solid and much better alternatives than this trash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joint2
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 23, 2005 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Out of all the FPS that have come out last year, Joint Operations is the best of the entire crowd. 
 
  
  First of all, you get to play on 150 player servers hosted by novalogic. Second, there are over 
 30 maps to play on. Third, you have muliple skins to choose from. Fourth, you have massive maps 
 to play on.
  
  Every map is well detailed and has lots of folige in it. When you walk around each map you can 
 hear ambeint sounds of nature.
  
  Of course, the vehicles are the center of attention in this game. You can fly and drive over 20 
 air, land and sea vehicles. Each vehicle was bulit for a spefic task, so the patrol boat is not 
 same like the Zodaic inflatable boat.
  
  However, there are a few bugs in the game that may bring down the experince.
  
  One the biggest 
 features of Joint Ops however is the Day/Night cycle which you can use to your advatage during 
 battle. As day turns into night, you better have your night vision on to repell any sneak attacks 
 your enemy may launch anganist you.
  
  Do your self a favor and pick this game up, because it has lot of features that will make you say 
 "awesome". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steelem
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2004 1:44 pm PT
Review:  i have been playong this game for about 6 months & cannot find any multiplay shooter that matches. 
 I have also just bought the expansion which has the apache helicopters & battle tanks - I bought 
 this after playing the demo & was surprised at how many extras are on the bought version - If you 
 love being apart of a team or love to run round like rambo then this is for you. The helicopters 
 are so easy to pilot which is great as ive played some games which make life so difficult. I have 
 barely played gta3 on my ps2 as this game is so good & addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alibabba13
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 19, 2004 5:35 pm PT
Review:  When I first got JO it was not fun, I got killed once a minute and didn't know who was actually 
 shooting at me. But after a few day's of play, I learnt that the M-4 assault rifle is a man's best 
 friend, and that an effectively used M24 sniper will take out a moving target over great distances. 
 At times the lag does get very frustrating, but then you have to remember that every game despite 
 the time spent on it has its inevitable glitches. However after a month of updates and patches 
 lag occurred less and less until it was almost completely zeroed out.
  
  One of the main problems in this game I admit is the fact that a short burst from an AK-74 will 
 have you lying in the mud surrounded by your own blood. However this makes you value your life, 
 and you will only open up on an enemy if you are absolutely certain you will kill him, or if you 
 let him be he will probably kill you before you kill him.
  
  In many reviews one of the main issues they raise is with sound, they tell us that the fact the 
 sound of weapons are slightly metallic may alter our game play experience. However I think that 
 this adds a kind of atmosphere to the game of gritty warfare in a very imperfect world.
  
  The graphics while not being incredible do what were made for and you can really imagine yourself 
 walking through this dense virtual forest in pitch black and only you, your M-4, and your Night 
 vision goggles around you. The urban maps though sadly few and far between (the best one being 
 the Kutu Arms Market map) can defiantly pass as a war torn city which the citizens have long since 
 evacuated. These maps are some of the most fluid and fast paced maps in the game as much of the 
 combat is close combat orientated.
  
  This game is well worth buying, as I dont think there has been a week when I have been at home 
 whilst having the game that I havent played on it. I was completely new to first person shooters 
 before I got it and so this game will appeal to both n00bs and veterans alike. This is defiantly 
 a must have game and the expansion is just around the corner!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0utc4st
Rating: 4.3
Date: Sep 14, 2004 2:35 am PT
Review:  I wanted to like this game after reading all the glowing reviews.
  
  Graphics are laughable whoever said they are a little under farcry is nutz. The water effects do 
 looks nice. Textures are bland as ever. Everything is low poly and it should be to support 150+ 
 people. 
  
  Sound is laughable most gunfire is unrealistic most guns sound like a rubber band snaping againsd 
 a tin can. Or like someone tossing rocks at an empty barrel. 
  
  Now those dont really matter if the game is fun but this is rediclious. You die in 1-2 hits at 
 most. Most of the time its instagib you just keel over from enemy fire from some unknown direction. 
 A lot of times you keel over right after you spawn due to spawn sniper campers.
  
  Vehicle's are absoutly laughable. The physics of the vehicles are totaly out of wack. Not to mention 
 the collision dection. Ok grab a vehicle drive out of town but dont take the roads just drive through 
 the buildings cause you can its a little bumpy but you can go right through.
  
  Helicopters get blown up 20 feet above camp takeoff due to spawn campers. You die after spawn due 
 to spawn campers (snipers) . You get into battle and die due to 1-2 hits from bullets. Its hard to 
 enjoy a good battle when 80%+ of your time is trying to get back to the battle. When you finally 
 get to the battle bam your instagibed. You think ok ill go again bam same thing. Repeat add nausium. 
 If you do last a while its cause your being ultra carefull which is not fun beause that involves 
 crawling ultra slowley as not to be a bigger target ooh but then when your crawling your total 
 sniper fodder. Not to mention when your running your total sniper fodder cause majority play snipers. 
 Speaking of snipers if one shoots you in chest, head, arm, leg, finger, ear, or toe you die.
  
  The battle is fun dieing instantly to one or two bullets is not. It would be a real real fun 
 game if you could actually stay in the battle for enough time to have some fun. This game is all 
 about big battles tons of people shooting running and a hail of bullets which by the way if you 
 catch one or two you die and it isnt hard to get shot twice when your fighting 50+ other people, 
 in fact its way to easy.
  
  Thank god I dident buy this game but it came free with my new video card. 
  
  If they made 
 it harder to die it would be loads more fun. Give snipers one hit kills for headshots only. Give 
 ground forces options for kevlar and helmets. Dont let oposing forces camp the spawn and kill instantly 
 after spawn and blow full helo's right after they takeoff.
  
  Its way more frustrating then fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccooke
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2004 11:29 pm PT
Review:  this game is awsome!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! the very best multiplayer game iv ever played
  
  there are tons of vehicals to drive and ride in and ground combat is awsome too
  
  theres lots 
 of real weapons to use different ones for rebels and joint ops
  you cant choose which one ya wanna be only in games where they let you change teams
  
  this 
 game is impossible to stop playing its even got a day night cycle that follows the 24 hour clock 
 which is really cool.
  
  if you like multiplayer you will love this game
  
  one quick note: its very hard to stop playing just a warning
  
  oh wait one thing... this is 
 Not for people who expect mindless fast action. This is a realistic millitary shooter so dont think 
 this will be like UT or CS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epicsoldier
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2004 1:10 am PT
Review:  A great game online. As like any Novalogic game, it's a great online game!. Theres no single player 
 here, just Online and Lan. The wide vareity of games in this game is really great. You have Helicopters, Hummers 
 etc. Theres alot of different guns and different players that you can pick, Theres alot of things 
 in this game that makes it a great game. I like Novalogics games, i think they are great, and this 
 one is the next great game from them!. The Maps in the game are greatly done and huge!. The graphics 
 are well done, and the sound is nice,. But i found that the helicopter control isn't quite right, 
 and is rather weird to fly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentEagle86
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2004 9:16 am PT
Review:  I love this game. I bought it yesterday and havent stopped plying it. Im a big fan of the BattleField 
 collections but this game sent me through huge lush junglescapes. Ive been playing two days and 
 Im still getting the hang of it. The controls are very different from BF's but its easy to get 
 the hang of it after awhile. Im still getting mad killed but im learning quickly. Its like they say"Great 
 things take time". Couldent be more true. This games great and if you dont have it get it. And if 
 you just love a big Multiplayer FPS get it. And thats the bottom line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silent_Killer12
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 24, 2004 5:04 am PT
Review:  Alot of people Think NovaLogic's Joint Operations: Typhoon Rising is not worth playing. But tell 
 me, how can a game that can hold 150 in a server be not worth playing? Imagine a game that takes 
 the Vehicles from Battle Field 1942 and the shooting from Medal of Honor: AA and combine it all 
 into one amazing game. Well if you do that you get Joint Operations: Typhoon Rising and thats what 
 I am looking in a game. In Joint Operations: Typhoon Rising you can hold up to 150 people in each 
 novalogic server, or if you would like to create a server that can hold up to 64 players. So basicly 
 Joint Operations: Typhoon Rising is a Massive Multiplayer game but there is no monthly charge. 
 Before you go online and play there is a nice training addition to the game. That will most likely 
 get you prepared to get online and start fighting. If you are looking for a great online First 
 person shooter I sugjest Joint Operations: Typhoon Rising. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bartoneloc
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 12, 2004 2:55 pm PT
Review:  As a long-time shooter player I was excited to hear about the large server style to be offered 
 with Joint Ops. I read the so-so review on gamespot and was disappointed but bought the game anyway. 
 I really think this game deserved a higher rating, for the following reasons  the graphics are 
 excellent, the multi-player is just amazing (with the exception of continuous server problems) 
 and the small-group style that permeates despite the game hosting up to 150 people at once. I think 
 with a few patches to fix any server problems they may have, novalogic has made an excellent game 
 that will surely beg for expansion packs and sequels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alec-Eiffel
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 9, 2004 4:41 pm PT
Review:  The first game to successfully let players access one hundered plus player servers WITHOUT having 
 to pay a monthly fee has arrived, and it kicks ass. From the guts of NovaLogic, Joint Operations: 
 Typhoon Rising lets gamers experience huge scale battles using a slew of weapons and vehicles. 
 Though at its out-of-the-box state, it's quite buggy and has a poor net code. Also note that the 
 single player is rather bland and is pale in comparison to the multi player portion of the game. 
 If game developers need a benchmark to make large scale online games a success, Joint Operations: 
 Typhoon Rising is a good place to start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Olegm
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 21, 2004 10:19 pm PT
Review:  To the people who score it by the demo, the demo is nothing like the finished product. All in all 
 I liked this game a lot; very addictive with the huge battles.
  
  Graphics are good, but nothing like the latest games out there. If you can turn the particle effects 
 all the way up then I would since the explosions look more realistic that way. Weapon models aren't 
 bad, but not too detailed. I like the assortment of character models on both sides too, though 
 the JO side has more than the Rebs. If you've got a ATI 9800 or FX5900, you can have your settings 
 on High or more without sacrificing much speed, which is great. AA and anisotropic will kill your 
 system though, so I'd choose one or the other.
  
  Sound is very good, with ricochets and bullet whizzes being nice touches. Some of the guns sound 
 a little underpowered, but are nice and loud and don't sound like they were recorded in a trash 
 can. You'll learn to dread hearing the high pitched scream from incoming mortars. Vehicles sound 
 as they should be.
  
  Though I prefer the helicopter controls in BF: V than JO, they're still bearable and much easier 
 to maneuver, which makes dropping off teammates a cinch. You can also concentrate easier on what's 
 going on on the ground better than having to worry about a joystick and maneuvering all the time.
 
  
  In all I'd have to say I like this game better than BF: V. Gameplay is pretty much the same, and 
 the maps are much bigger, as well as the battles.
  
  Reviewer specs:
  Athlon64 3200
  Asus KV8 SE motherboard
  ATI X800 Pro vidcard
  Soundblaster Audigy 2 soundcard
  1GB Corsair 
 PC3200 RAM
  250GB WD SATA harddrive
  Windows XP Pro 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BADGUY10
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 12, 2004 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Overall.. good potential. 
  
  HOWEVER... I miss the BF1942 & BFV Helo Operation. Nothing better than trying to land in a "hail 
 of bullets" while trying to maintain a/c control. In JO.. you simply hit the "down" buttom.. like 
 an elevator.. bad news! Also, in JO, when you release the controls the helo goes into a hover and 
 the nose pops up 20-30 degrees. You can't see the ground, or any of your targets! Sure wish they 
 had emulated BF's flight control system. 
  
  Also, what advantage is there in waiting so long for the helo turbines to wind up before takeoff? 
 Realistic.. but so is doing maintenance debriefs and filling
  out pre-flight paperwork.. why weren't they included in the simulation? Who needs it! I hope they 
 shorten this wait time to match the intended fast pace of the game. 5- 10 seconds is enough. 
 
  
  Another concern: pecking on the green "control" and "sit" designations when entering a vehicle 
 is just a lot of work. Why not hit "E" for entry and "1", "2", etc to reach the postion you need? 
 It would probably lesson the "workload" on the server and would also help when changing from "control" 
 to "Machine gun" during land vehicle operation.
  
  I thought I had a high end system (Nvidia 9800 Ultra) with 2, 256 Ram Channels) but I experienced 
 a lot of lag on several of the servers, especially those with 100+ players. I had to drop down 
 all options so I could swivel around without getting motion sickness. Spoils the whole game. Hopefully, 
 the problem is with the servers and can eventually be fixed.
  
  
  OTHER THAN ALL OF THAT .. the game has GREAT potential and certainly sets
  a new standard for 
 the future. EVERYONE WORK ON PATCHES to bring this game
  to its full potential.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaosyndrom
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 11, 2004 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Joint Operations Typhoon Rising, is a great game, its one of those games that is good, but they 
 have a few issues. Some issues of mine are graphical, and gameplay related, like the graphics look 
 very good when turned on high, and very awful turned on low, but don't take me too serious on graphics, 
 my graphics card sucks arse, but what really ticks me off is, its a decent card yet on low settings 
 it still blows. Some other issues would be dieing too fast, and its really usually luck that gets 
 you kills, or killed. Sometimes long traveling is an issues even if you have a vehicle. But on 
 top of all that, the graphics, like sun lighting, water, explosion visuals, give it a nice touch, 
 and the vehicles are very cool. Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: softdog
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 11, 2004 4:45 am PT
Review:  Since release the game has had 3 or 4 patches that have improved it massively. Easy to log on, 
 and harder to die. The players seem to have evolved also. I have never been refused a lift in a 
 chopper or boat. When you choose to spawn at the main base immediately there is usually a chopper 
 waiting to pick you up. The graphics are amazing, and playing against 150 people is just exhilarating. 
 I find the game totally immersive. It is a game where rushing into the enemys camp is not going 
 to win you the game. You need to go in together. There is good variety in the levels. In the city 
 I find the M60 the weapon of choice but on the islands the sniper. The game has no lag either which 
 is amazing with 150 people all wizzing around. I have BF Vietnam and think that Joint Ops is much 
 better. You dont get a sense of being walled in by invisible barriers. You can go around the action 
 here and attack from another angle. The game is incredibly exciting as vehicles arrive and troops 
 pour out firing. I live for online games and I rate this one the finest one available at the moment. 
 I bought it in the UK off play. com for 17 and think that for this price the game is unrivalled. 
 It is constantly being improved but I think even at this stage it is an astonishing accomplishment 
 and an utterly immersive experience. I would give it a shot. I think that is takes the genre to 
 a new level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brundlefly76
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 10, 2004 3:18 pm PT
Review:  This si all demo review..
  
  I really wanted to like this game, but unfortunately the ratio of setup to combat is just so high 
 a few hours of play feels wasted and frustrated.
  
  It feels like most time is spent running from spawn points to vehicles, waiting for vehicles to 
 load, and travelling to your destination. Once there, you either die immediately, camp and try 
 to stay out of site, or get lucky and take control of a base, where the combat inside the base 
 is usually brief, repetitive, and not very fulfilling. 
  
  The graphics are good but extremely taxing - even on a XP3000 with 512MB RAM and a Radeon 9700 
 Pro, gameplay is more fulfilling with the graphics turned all the way down so you can get the fluid 
 action needed to win a firefight.
  
  Rifle combat feels a bit awkward, and sometimes it seems you will be hammering an enemy head on 
 yet youre not really hitting them. Anti-vehicle weapons are short on ammo and accuracy, and usually 
 not worth the effort.
  
  There are some other little annoyances also - like when you enter an empty vehicle, it wont necessarily 
 put you in the drivers seat. Some stuff like stationary guns need 4-5 keystrokes at the right spot 
 before you take control of them depending on what position they were left in. 
  
  Some other features would be nice - such as seeing players on your grid to tell who is trying to 
 get in your helo, or better feedback on who is where saying what.
  
  This iis one of those game syou will find yourself playing for hours and when your done youve only 
 accomplished a handful of objectives.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheeto
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 4, 2004 8:03 am PT
Review:  The joint operations demo totally blew me away. It had everything that made games like battlefeild 
 look interesting, but got rid of all the things that made them suck. I finally got a chance to 
 pick up the game a few days ago. 
  
  The retail version is even better than the demo. The thing I like most about the game is the environment. 
 It really pulls you in and makes you feel like your battling in a jungle. There are helicopter 
 noises everywhere, gun shots, tracer buttels flying, everything to make you constanly look around 
 your surrounds because the enemy could be crouching right by your feet.
  
  get this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HTWingnut
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 30, 2004 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Joint Operations: Typhoon Rising is a great multiplayer game for those that enjoy modern warfare 
 games. It is a welcome relief from the onslaught of World War 2 games like Battlefield 1942.
  
  Getting into the action is simple. Controls are like any other first person shooter more or 
 less. The player also has the option to use third person view if desired. Vehicles typically are 
 plentiful enough for rapid transit, but traversing a map on foot or by swimming is also quite plausible 
 for those that have the patience. What is particularly interesting are the vast number of drivable 
 vehicles available from helicopters to MPC's to attack boats and even ferry transports. Most vehicles 
 and bunkers have weapons that can be mounted as well to hold off the enemy.
  
  Multiplayer games have their limitations usually, but Joint Operations seems to have the right 
 idea and programming talent to bring it all together. It is amazing the number of players that 
 can be on a server at any given time and have reasonable latency. In other words, other players 
 don't bounce around like in some games if there is a bad connection. It makes targeting other players 
 and actually getting a kill much more plausible.
  
  The only downside is that there is not much variety in gameplay. After 20 to 30 hours of gaming, 
 I started to quickly tire of the same routine and game types. Trying different weaponry tends to 
 extend the interest trying to hones one's skill as a sniper, a gunner, medic, or engineer, but 
 not too much. I imagine with implementation of new weapons and vehicles and introducing new maps 
 it will keep the game fresh for some time to come. There is also very little coordination of efforts 
 most times, except for a few individuals on a team. Granted, the gameplay forces players driving 
 vehicles to pick up other players to ensure adequate firepower, but most battles are chaos due 
 to lack of any single coordinated effort.
  
  All in all, however, Joint Operations has kept my interest for quite a while, and I see great promise 
 for future add-ons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtrim1
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 29, 2004 8:00 am PT
Review:  Joint Operations: Typhoon Rising is a phenomenal on-line tactical first person shooter experience. 
 The ability to pilot vehicles, snipe, use mounted weapons and capture enemy bases are relatively 
 standard elements of today's on-line shooters, but Joint Operations seems to take all of those 
 tasty morsels to the next level. Novalogic, in it's vast series of delta force games, has payed 
 detailed attention to realism in it's weapons ballistics, and that bit of realism is what helps 
 set this game apart from most other games in this genre. It truly feels like you are lobbing a 
 hot piece of metal through the air at your target when you pull the trigger on your rifle. you 
 can see the tracers as they arc through the air on their way to their intended destination. Likewise, 
 you can see the tracers of your enemy as they whip past your head, or through it if you're not 
 careful. 
  
  The vehicles have definately been designed on the less realistic side, but the decision was obviously 
 made in order to stick to the number 1 rule of game making, a game HAS to be fun. Worrying about 
 rudder control and lift could potentially get in the way of the action in a game like this one. 
 just hop in the vehicle of your choice and controlling it comes very natural. 
  
  The maps in Joint Operations are so large that you will be thankful that there are means of transportation 
 to get you from point a to point b. once you arrive at a base in conflict, the firefights are fierce 
 and tense. Find yourself a good tactical and secret place to lay down fire, or the next thing you 
 know, you may be face down chewing on the dirt. The battles, even though tough, are exciting and 
 will keep you coming back for more lead sandwiches. 
  
  Graphically, the game is on par with similar games, like Battlefield Vietnam, but one thing that 
 stands out to me is the amount of foliage. There are plants and grass everywhere, and you rarely 
 feel like there is nowhere to hide. The foliage is not only for looks, because it is essential 
 in your stealth tactics as it truly can keep you hidden from the view of others. The maps are well 
 laid out and are designed so there is plenty of fun to be had, no matter what class of soldier 
 you choose to play. 
  
  The Sound effects are very good, the weapon sounds are strong and give you a sensation of actually 
 firing off rounds. The atmospheric sounds are fitting and never sound out of place, and serve to 
 immerse you in the environment that you are in. You will hear gunshots from firefights off in the 
 distance that will echoe through the canyons. The sound does it's job very well in this game, but 
 there isn't anything breakthrough in this area of the game. 
  
  Overall, this game is great fun! Definately worth making the purchase. The only drawback is there 
 is absolutely no single player game. You can, however, host a multiplayer LAN game, choose a COOP 
 mission and play by yourself, but the odds are so heavily stacked against you that you will wish 
 you had your buddies along side to help clear out the enemy forces. 
  
  If you're looking for a great tactical on-line experience, Joint Ops: Typhoon Rising is what you're 
 looking for! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ziek
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 25, 2004 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Absolutely one of the best first person (third person is optional... come on gamespot get it right.. FPS 
 is stipulated on the box already!) , multiplayer, mult-vehicle (including helos ) games to come 
 along to date. Battlefield 1942, and Vietnam which have been thee multiplayer, multi-vehicle games 
 of choice, desperately pale in comparison to Joint Operations: Typhoon Rising. 
  In the Battlefields one always felt a bit claustrophobic when flying planes, or helicopters. Fly 
 to the edge of a map (all of 20 seconds from border to border) and stay outside of it for 10 seconds 
 and you are summarily executed. It certainly lived uped to its arcade style game play.
  Joint Operations: Typhoon Rising by Novalogic has just re-written the book on this genre. Make 
 no mistake... this is a keeper. Everything about this game and its genre is exactly the way a gamer 
 would or could want it. The only problem we are having is... trying to put the damn thing down. 
 It is concievable this game could be the making of many a video widow this summer and I see several 
 weeks of unbridled lawn growth.
  Run... don't walk to your nearest video game outlet to pick this one up... and buy a good set of 
 occlusive headphones... unless you like the constant and deafening reminders to rev of the Toro. 
 I kid you not!
  
  Ziek
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gweedo82
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 25, 2004 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield series watch your back! This game is a very good competitor. Game play is set up roughly 
 the same as the battlefield series. There is a map, and on that map there are control points, and 
 fighting for those control points are two teams, those two teams have guns, grenades, rocket launchers, 
 helicopters, jeeps with guns, and mortars (a personal favorite of mine) . 
  You may ask, What is the difference between this and any battlefield game out there? Well for 
 starters the maps are bigger, much bigger. The size necessitates alternate means of transport. 
 So there are the helicopters, jeeps, ATVs, and boats.
  Another major difference is the weapons load outs. Instead of having one type of RPG load out and 
 one type of medic and one type of engineer and one type of sniper, there are many variations of 
 each of the 5 or 6 types of soldiers for each side. This adds some flexibility to the game you 
 get to customize (and save that customized) load out. 
  The helicopters are too easy to fly in my opinion, however this makes them more accessible to every 
 one on the map. There are about six different types of helicopters and all very distinct, and fun. 
 The maps really lend them selves to the helicopter but more so to the off road vehicles. Helicopters 
 are fun but with about ten different variations, the jeeps and ATVs are the most enjoyable. There 
 are no tanks but armored vehicles abound through out the game. A tank would be far to slow and 
 really slow down the game which is very fast paced. 
  The most impressive thing to me was the sense of direction that I had while playing. In most games 
 you just have to follow the blood soaked trails to get to the fight. In this game you can take 
 really any one of a real number of routs to the control points. This gives way to little firefights 
 all along the way, and so you have one or two big fights and ten to fifteen little fights. This 
 makes for some very fun gaming.
  I think that the textures used are very bland and some of the buildings look kind of cartoonish 
 but the water is very cool, you can even swim for decent distances under it and you can shoot while 
 treading water. The vehicles are all well textured and the weapons probably have more polygons 
 than the human characters. Oh! The characters! I almost forgot. There are about fifteen character 
 models, including female models, in this game. So you can change more than just your weapon load 
 out, but also have a more unique look. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad_Dav
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 25, 2004 6:07 am PT
Review:  To start with, I have not played BF 1942 or BFV so I don't have the ability to compare JO to them. 
 I normally play first person shooters and have since the original Doom which got me addicted to 
 computer games, so I've been playing a long time. Overall, I like this game, but feel, as many 
 others, that you die way too easily. The maps are huge and you wind up spending most of your time 
 trying to get back to the action. I think that if they tweaked this damage model so that, unless 
 you DID get shot in the head by a sniper, you didn't die instantly! If they would just do that, 
 I'd really be happy with this game. The last game I bought was Far Cry and I feel the graphics 
 in JO aren't that far off the beautiful graphics in Far Cry. The sound I feel is above average 
 and love the weapons, but wish you could mix and match a bit more. The class you pick pretty well 
 governs what you will have and unless you happen to be by an armory, that is what you are stuck 
 with.
  
  So, all and all, I like this game... I do wish you could play offline against bots that you would 
 adjust to your skill level. No single player aspect sucks. You CAN host and set the max players 
 to 1 on any game type to at least familiarize yourself with the maps. In Coop, the bots are WAY 
 too good and that is also very frustrating. 
  
  I think a lot of people who buy this game will get frustrated with dying so easily and quit playing 
 unless either Novalogic patches this game and adds an offline aspect and damage model treaks. Maybe 
 if enough people complain, something might be done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: infinitemethod
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 23, 2004 7:36 am PT
Review:  First of all, I would like to say that this is an awesome game! I haven't had this much fun playing 
 a game since Halo. You really get caught up in the game, time flies by! Anyways, ther are a few 
 issues that people are having problems with and I'd like to address them. 
  
  First is, it is too easy to die. Personally, I love that if you get hit your going down, makes 
 the game very realistic. Although it can be very annoying because you just spent a good few minutes 
 getting to where you want to go, then all of a sudden bam! You're dead! Well, that is your fault. 
 You shouldn't get frustrated with the game, just yourself for letting it happen like that. 
  
  As is, the game has a few graphical flaws. One that really bugs me is when you are moving in 
 a village, buildings are see-thru and then they appear. I've gotten stuck more than I'd like. Vehicles 
 also do this, it is very annoying.
  
  I honestly love this game though, it is a great time. I can't wait to get some of my friends in 
 on this action. Thanks Novalogic for making a really fun game! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: loonatik
Rating: 1.4
Date: Jun 23, 2004 7:18 am PT
Review:  I think gamespot is completely off the mark. This game is 100% thumb's down in my book. It has 
 horrible game play, horrible graphics, and I didnt even bother to see if the sound was decent.
 
  
  The vehicles appear to be a 30 minute addon to delta force. They spent no time in trying to create 
 good models, worrying about gameplay, or even coming up with a damage model. You can drive a hummer 
 right into any other vehicle and you just get a "thunk". You can fly the helicopter's into the 
 side of a mountain and they will just slide along the hill until you get airborn again. My 8 year 
 old son would laugh at how boring the vehicles are to use. They take no skill what so ever.
  
  So you are left with delta force. All in all delta force was a good series. But the boldness 
 by novalogic to think they could slap on a few vehicles and sell you this game for a full $50 is 
 criminal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chutney_Ferret
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jun 23, 2004 5:10 am PT
Review:  I really wanted to like this game. I've played BF1942 and BFV since they were released but wanted 
 something to take it to the next level, and from the description pre-release this certainly sounded 
 like to might. Gamespot put its finger right on the spot when it comes to the major flaw here, 
 but I think it should have affected the score they gave it more. Simply put, you die far too quickly 
 - one hit and you are dead. No chance to find cover, no chance to find a medic to heal you. Given 
 the enormous size of some of the maps, its a big problem - you spend ages getting somewhere only 
 to die straight away, often not knowing how or who got you. Repeat ad nauseam. This really ruins 
 the fun of the game and makes it really hard for those new to the game to get any enjoyment from 
 it until you put in a serious amount of time walking and dying til you learn how the game works. 
 
  I don't care that much about the graphics, but have to say I don't like them - they aren't as good 
 as BFV but its difficult to put my finger on why. It could be the blocky character models but or 
 the harsh lighting. They aren't bad but they certainly could have been better.
  If they rejig the health and instant-kill aspect of the game then I'd reccomend you give it a try. 
 Until then avoid it and stick with BF1942 or BFV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juc
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jun 22, 2004 9:24 pm PT
Review:  I wrote a lengthy review, so I will get to the point at the beginning. This game simply isnt fun 
 for me. If you are the type that likes to wait 90 minutes in a huge line at Disneyland to get on 
 a popular ride that lasts 3 minutes and consider that satisfying, this game is for you. Let me 
 be more specific. Wait 30 to 45 seconds to spawn at the action then die 5 seconds later OR choose 
 to spawn at your main camp, travel for 2 minutes and then die in 5 seconds. The bottom line is 
 this game is just not fun. If you are into slow, methodical, tactics trying to get people to work 
 in teams in a first person shooter this is your game. If you are looking for fun, quick action 
 and playing with toys such as a M-1 Abrams tank, Apache helicopter, buy Battlefield 1942 and get 
 the free Desert Combat mod. What else can I say, I want to love this game, but it is just not fun. 
 And I am not even mentioning the myriad of bugs this game was released with  connection issues 
 to Novaworld (the online community to join multiplayer games) are frequent so be prepared to alter 
 or shut off your firewall. I often receive error codes J-023 and J-006 when trying to connect to 
 Novaworld. What the heck is J-023 and J-006? They are codes for open several ports on your firewall, 
 alter your router and just get more frustrated with this game. Let me mention COOP missions since 
 I find myself playing them more often when I cant connect to Novaworld. After playing against 
 walking corpses in Battlefield 1942 (this reads this worst AI ever programmed) I thought that the 
 COOP would keep me entertained until I could locate a fix for my connection problems apparently 
 Nova hired the same person who programmed the AI in Battlefield 1942 their bots are complete morons 
 and that is an understatement. In addition, there are a few bugs in COOP that really detract from 
 the experience. Bug 1: the stats are not kept at all in COOP yes, this is frustrating  apparently 
 they released the game without getting this working. Bug 2: if you go to a PSP (spawn flag) and 
 are killed, your corpse can take the PSP I found myself taking a helicopter straight to the PSP 
 even if there were 10 bots around taking shooting practice on me but once my corpse took the flag, 
 I would spawn and seek my revenge. How the heck did this slip through beta? Bug 3: sometimes there 
 is no way to end a mission something goes wrong with the script and an event doesnt trigger or 
 something worse, a group of bots is supposed to extract you in their Blackhawk, but the bot pilot 
 crashes into a group of trees to explode and then nothing. At least the COOP missions are somewhat 
 varied and slightly entertaining. I know these bugs will be fixed as is the trend to release buggy 
 software, then have paying customers finish the beta testing and then release several patches that 
 resolve these issues. I knew this going in but the bottom line is this game isnt fun for me. 
 I will take Desert Combats Lost Village map anytime to this game. When does Battlefield 2 come 
 out? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 22, 2004 7:34 pm PT
Review:  I bought Joint Operations as an impulse buy because i love games that are like battlefield's and 
 waypoints you have to capture. The rest of this review will spend time comparing and giving reasoning 
 to my rating which i think is very good for the game.
  First i'll attack the gameplay for it's the first on the list. The gameplay in JO is actually very 
 well done they dont give you too many buttons to deal with. Yeah, sure there's many buttons that 
 do many actions but mostly you just need to know how to call for a medic when you've got your butt 
 handed to you or you're needing a lift. My only problem with the gameplay is that when you choose 
 a gun that has a grenade launcher attached it is far too annoying and time consuming to switch 
 to the grenade fire, then switch back to your rate of fire. I'm sure they could've made firing 
 your grenade a lot easier then they did.
  Next is the graphics, the graphics really aren't done that well. Soldier of Fortune two looked 
 MUCH better then this game. Granted i know that you need to cut down on the graphics in order to 
 make the game run smooth but i think they cut the graphics down too much. Though i will say the 
 graphics on the guns were made very well but the hand going to the gun to hold it was done pretty 
 poorly i think. I know these are minor issues that most all people will get over but they are still 
 there.
  Also the sound, the sound got a good review mostly for the fact that the only thing that i didn't 
 like was the sound of the guns. They aren't real, i'm sorry but an AK47 does not sound like a pop 
 can being shot by a rubber band. I really dont think Nova Logic did good in that spec of the category 
 because that really takes away from the game.
  Now the end of this is the value and tilt of the game. Now these got high scores because even with 
 some of these flaws in the game, it is actually very enjoyable because if everyone works together 
 and doesn't get stupid nobody can be bored. There are the occasional idiots that roam around seeing 
 what will happen if they shoot an RPG at the ground... even though that might seem evident, to those 
 few it isn't. It is also particularly fun to escort like 5 guys in a truck and having them shoot 
 at the enemy as you drive by. 
  All in all this game is really fun if you can get a good server with players who actually WANT 
 to play. The graphics are alright the sound has a major glitch that can easily be fixed and the 
 gameplay needs some adjusting but if you have the mind set to look past all that this game is very 
 fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terminus
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 20, 2004 7:34 pm PT
Review:  I really don't see the need to compare titles.... enjoy them all.... this game though has better 
 maps and graphics than bfv... the  and out, everything 
 looks amazing.... If you can put settings to  look 
 out..... cheezy vehicle inside dashboards become unbelievably detailed..... the water is comparable 
 to bfv.... but you can swim underwater... and the oceans sometimes stretch farther than you could 
 imagine... player models are sick too..... the flight physics are hilarious.... unlike the incredible 
 bfv physics.... I've flown rc  simular... I love bfv for aircraft 
 flight hands down.
  But this game is about action and fun.... not the skilled pilot.... more like the skilled sniper..... snipers 
 rule in this game.... I normally don't pick the profession... but in this game... it's just too much 
 fun.... there is no single player campaign... but you can play plenty coop boards offline against 
 bots.... really alot of fun.... what's cool is .... because it could seem a litte much, is that, when 
 you kill bots in coop... their dead... so if you can pop 20 or more in your first attempt.... they 
 remain dead.... making it easier the second time around... add some friends to help and it's great.... there 
 is also a training mode that has some fun little missions to do... but the fun is definately online... I 
 sport a p43.2e with 1.24ddr400 and ati 9800 pro128... with normal settings terrain and character 
 on high resolution at 1280 by 960 or 780 or whaterver the second to highest resolution availale 
 in the game.... I get 50-60 fps with 100 people playin.... lol... wow.... I use cable .... this game 
 over all is an excellent and fun action shooter... with non over heating weapons and unlimited vehicle 
 ammo.... look out.... is it better than bf series in my opinion.... I can't say.... they both have 
 their strong points.... and although their simular in foundation.... their really different... I like 
 bf for it's historic war feel and look... and physics... but JO is better lookin, with monsterous 
 environments and loads of weapons.... so you decide, I will continue to play both of them.... later
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pos3
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2004 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Well what to say about Joint ops. One opinion is that it just kicks ass. Or it just kicks ass. 
 I have plenty of online games such as BFV, Far cry, and of couse UT 2004. But the way this game 
 is presented is amazing. Of course is see this beutiful world through the eyes of a Radeon 9800. 
 I can say with out a doubt that the graphics kick a suficent amount of ass. I fact a few points 
 below far cry. Now I under stand that a few people say that Battle Field Vietnam is better. But 
 that is there opinion and it should be taken note of but sadly thay are wrong. What I am going 
 to say is opinion but should be a stated fact. This is the best online experience ever created 
 and sould be play by any one who should be able to get there hands on it. The sound is crisp and 
 exact to every thing it should sound like. The world enviornments are vast, tropical, and beutiful. 
 The gameplay is fast, furious, and very hard but yet very fun. When I first got my hands on the 
 Demo (The second Demo) it was an amazing experience. The game does not lit down trust me when i 
 say these words BUY, BUY, BUY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deepcold
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 18, 2004 11:42 pm PT
Review:  First of all, my review is based on the retail game itself.. not the demo or the tech beta i was 
 in, the final game who's coming in the box!! JO is not a sim warefare like Ghost Recon or America's 
 Army and, it's not having a great graphic engine like Far Cry... it's more like a improved BF1942 
 Desert Combat. Joint Operation as been design to be played either like fast pace game play in a 
 "rush and gun" style or in a tactical way. When you entering the game, a short intro is showing 
 the actual gameplay. After that, you have to choose from a total of 67 different skins, 7 voice, 
 5 character classes, around 40 different weapons, and 21 different vehicules. Graphics are awsome!!! 
 I can't believe that peoples are saying that the graphics sucks!! At high settings, you can see 
 AT missile heat contrail when firing them and the same goes to the heli turbines exhaust heat effect. 
 The explosion are not eye candy, but it's ok. The weapons models are very good to me. The sound 
 is awsome, 5.1 speakers settings is a must for someone who owns such hardware. The chopper sound 
 is very well done... everytime a chopper is passing over my head, it reminds me the good old time 
 in the Army. The APC on the Joint Operation side is the same as the Canadian Armed Forces APC Bison. 
 The engine sounds the same and you can here the release valves on the brake pneumatic system when 
 stopping the vehicule. The map are huge and, that's what it's fun in that game. When playing, the 
 gamers as to organize there self and ask for transportation like in real life. There's an option 
 that i like very much and the players are not using it very often is the commander menu. With that, 
 you can form squad and the CO is able to put waypoints with explanation text for the "what to do". 
 4 gametype is available: Team King of the Hill, Team Deathmatch, Advance and Secure and finally 
 COOP. Servers can take up to 150 players so, that a lot of tracers to illuminate the sky. One great 
 thing to in JO is that the daytime environment is changing to night time.. better bring your night 
 googles soldiers, you're gonna need them. Punkbuster as been implanted so, no cheaters are allowed. 
 I played BF1942 and BF Vietnam and, both of those 2 great games has been sold today on EBay because 
 right now, i don't feel to play nothing else than JO. It's a great game with a lot of potential 
 and, hopefully, Novalogic will do add-ons for the futur. A map designer tool is coming out too 
 so, the replay value for this game is unbelievable. There is no single play for JO except that 
 there's 13 training missions and, you can always create a COOP lan game. So to finalize my review, 
 a lot of players as been reviewing JO with the demo and, what a mistake they've done. The only 
 thing i can complain is that, there's no option for choosing or having a random weather. A great 
 title to be proud to own for every military first person shooter lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_E_5od
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 17, 2004 11:44 pm PT
Review:  NOTE: I will admit my review might seem bias to some people because I belong to a Battlefield Vietnam 
 clan, 5 Elements od Destruction (5od) . I will also do my review in comparison to Battlefield Vietnam 
 rather than a general aspect. This review is on the DEMO, I will have a GAME review later.
  
  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay in JO is great, simply. It has more weapons and character customization 
 than BFV. You can tell that JO was made to be a 100+ player game when you see the art of taking 
 flags. Unlike BFV, in JO theres usually only 6 points on the map which matter, the uncappable JO 
 & Rebel bases and the 4 outposts named Alpha, Bravo, Charlie and Delta. Even with 8 people it will 
 still seem a lengthy wait to make the base your own. You have to extermine all enemy players, destroy 
 their camp and set up your own which, again, seems FOREVER. Us BFV players realize that 8 people 
 can take a flag in about 2 seconds. That is because of BFVs 64 player cap (you really can't play 
 that many anyway) and JOs HUGE sized maps that require much teamwork. The demos physics are a joke. 
 The only way your vehicle can take damage is A. It's blown up by an enemy or B. gets stuck in something. 
 If it gets stuck, you simply get out and walk away, then it blows up, it's such a joke. Gameplay 
 is where Jo is most closely in contact with BFV and it deserves an 8.
  
  GRAPHICS: Put short, THEY SUCK!! The enviroments are complete garbage. My video card is an nVidia 
 GeForce Go5700 and all my settings are HIGHEST! The weapon models look like Desert Combat models 
 at best. Vehicles, however, are very good on the outside with good detail, but then again, crappy 
 on the inside. The graphics on JO are horrible and need some serious work to compete with BFVs. 
 They get a six, barely.
  
  SOUND: It sucks too. Lets me simulate the M4 and AK74 sounds for you. Get a thick solid piece of 
 steel and a ballpoint hammer and band on the steel according to each weapons rate of fire, Thats 
 how they sound in JO: bad. The voice coms are at least clear and all vehicle sounds are fine. Another 
 nice six.
  
  VALUE: JOs best subject. I strongly suggest downloading this game. You, like me will realize that 
 like BFV, JO will be a great game will some patches and improvements. It is a very addictive game 
 and with team work, will be loads of fun with buddys with voice communication. A good 9.
  
  TILT: Overall, I think Jo will be a great game. Yes I do think BFV will be better in the end because 
 of its shape now compared to JOs and because of EA vs. NovaLogic (lol) . It's going to be a great 
 fun game, download it or check it out now!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: masaville
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2004 5:43 pm PT
Review:  I played the demo for a few weeks and thoroughly enjoyed it. I found it much more fun that Battlefield 
 Vietnam because of the large scale maps, vast number of vehicles, and 100 players servers. I stopped 
 playing until I picked up the retail copy just yesterday.
  
  I must say, they cranked it up a notch. Graphics are polished even in lower resolutions and gameplay 
 with 150 players is the bomb. These are full-on battles like no other game out there. Sound and 
 interface it great, as well as the connection. Forget about lag because there is none unless you're 
 running a dog of a system, or have a poor Internet connection. Solid as a rock.
  
  I'd recommend this to anyone - an absolute blast to play, tactically or in 'run-and-gun' mode! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Copythat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 17, 2004 9:17 am PT
Review:  This game rocks. You can't understand the volume of fire 75 enemy soldiers can deliver until you've 
 been on the receiving end of it. The good news is that you have 74 other teammates to back you 
 up (Hope one of em is a Medic) Yes, That's 150 people in a game, and it's Smooth :)
  The Teamwork that is needed to do well is the most important aspect of JO: TR. No Rambos need apply.
 
  Just the right mix of realism and Gameplay. No, An M-60 is NOT accurate when you are running full 
 speed, but I dont want to take flight training classes to fly a helo either.
  All in all, The best game I have played in a Long, Long time and the first I have bothered to take 
 the time to review. Now, If you'll excuse me, I have a Copy of BFV to light on fire :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeroRathe
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 17, 2004 7:40 am PT
Review:  I found this game to be extremely fun...
  
  I've done the Doom's, Medal of Honor, BF1942 and so on. Joint Operations takes this style of game 
 to the next level for me, simply with the ability to get involved in a game with 100 to 150 people.
 
  
  Controls are easy to use, and anyone who's played a first person shooter will easily jump into 
 the game.
  
  Sound is fairly solid, be nice if they had more voices, but that's just window dressing to a good 
 game.
  
  Graphics are not perfect, but they are again very good.
  
  Personally, I'm running a Athlon XP 2.0, with 1 gig of RAM, and a Raedon 9700, and I was able to 
 run the graphics about as high as you can, and have no problems. I did however have to turn them 
 down a bit when I got involved in a game last night with 130+ people. It was Island hopping, and 
 we were battling over one single island, and even with DSL I was suffering some lag, even with 
 options turned down. On that small island there were over 90 people, running around...
  
  I'm most comfortable with my set-up, playing with 100 people in a game, max of 120 on a bigger 
 map.
  
  My only problem, and it's an expected one, is the over abundance of snipers. Seems that most people 
 want to snipe. Last night, in having 49 teammates, there were 40 snipers, 4 gunners, and 5 medic's. 
 Rifleman and engineer were unplayed. Both classes however have value, and since I'm guessing the 
 other side was set-up close to the same way, it left us fighting over a single objective for over 
 an hour, with no movement. It wasnt until some snipers switched to the unplayed classes, and we 
 were able to mortar fire out the enemy and advance.
  
  I'd like to think that in time people will start to enjoy playing all of the classes, but as long 
 as sniper is the most popular class, there will be some level of frustration. For me, I can deal 
 with it, as I really enjoyed the game ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hutie3
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 15, 2004 1:38 pm PT
Review:  I was a BETA tester for all 3 sessions and I must say I have seen this game grow. There are many 
 great features to this game from multiple driveable vehicles to dissapearing in the brush. Nova 
 has also added unique features such as heat tracers from rockets and splash from helicopter wind 
 tunnels. The gameplay from JO is incredible. Huge maps, that extend forever so it seems. The graphics 
 are not the greatest but they are far superior to anything out right now. To truly appreciate this 
 game you have to have a great computer, with a superior video card. All in all people this is a 
 must have from NOVA, 10X that of the BattleFields. Take the demo for a spin if you want to test 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mrgrimm312
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 15, 2004 1:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is a must have. It is a mix between Battlefield 1942 and Flashpoint.
  This game ofers tons of vehicles weopons and maps. The graphics are just astonishing. You can hide 
 in a bush as if it is real. Bullet tracers, The great thing is that they input bullet drop on it. 
 So when your shooting down hill/up hill/ or really far away. You will have to loft your rifle to 
 the appropriate postion. There is very few things wrong with this game. The vehicles can be a bit 
 annoying at times because you fall out of them for no apparent reason. If you cant stand spawn 
 killing then dont get this game. Theres spawn killing in this like crazy. If the other team spawn 
 kills you then that means that your team is not doing their job. I give this game a solid 9.6. 
 Its a must have First person shooter. 10x better then 1942. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
