-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Joint Task Force
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/jointtaskforce/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Beautiful graphics bring modern warfare to life.
 fun multiplayer modes that are a departure from standard modes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Combat requires intense micromanagement and lots of reloading to get it right.
 pacing feels off, as you spend less time fighting and more time sitting around.
 artificial intelligence and pathfinding need to go back to school.
 frame rate struggles at times to keep up.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 22, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.9, 35 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 709 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Most Wanted
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Sep 12, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Joint Task Force's theme of modern military intervention to solve the world's ills seems fitting, 
 as it shows how good ideas can get bogged down in reality. 

  Modern military combat is a popular subject, and what self-respecting strategy gamer doesn't want 
 to play with the latest and greatest tanks and weaponry? That's the idea behind Joint Task Force, 
 a strategy game that envisions a world where the answer to many of the world's ills are an M1 Abrams 
 tank and a company of US Army Rangers. Unfortunately, we know that such operations can end in a 
 quagmire in the real world, and Joint Task Force suffers from some similar issues.  

          Command modern military forces in action around the world in Joint Task Force, though don't 
 be surprised if you get bogged down.     

  The fictional Joint Task Force is a multinational peacekeeping unit formed by the Western nations 
 to put the muscle back into peacekeeping, and the game takes the JTF around the world as it attempts 
 to stamp out a terrorist organization with shades of Al-Qaeda. The JTF is apparently a shoestring 
 operation, though, because it literally has to fight for its funding while on the battlefield. 
 The game's mechanics are set up so that you start off with a limited handful of assets in most 
 missions and then are rewarded cash for completing objectives. You can then use that cash to purchase 
 reinforcements, from RPG-wielding Rangers to Humvees to helicopters to satellite scans of the battlefield. 
 The missions are fairly straightforward and consist mainly of going from point A to point B to 
 accomplish an objective (usually blasting everything in the area) , only to be notified by the JTF 
 commander to go to another point on the map and carry out the same objective. In essence, you're 
 maneuvering around the level like a rat in a maze until you finally get to the end, at which point 
 it's on to the next mission to repeat the process.  

  The big issue with the game is that combat, which should be the heart of Joint Task Force, is a 
 lot of work and not that much fun. The action happens so fast that it's very unforgiving if you 
 make a mistake, which is easy to do since the game requires an intense amount of micromanagement. 
 You have to give your guys basic orders, like telling infantry to shoot at a nearby enemy that 
 suddenly pops into view while they're crawling around the ground or telling a tank crewman to button 
 up in his vehicle if he's getting shot at. A lot of times, troops get wiped out before you know 
 it, and since you only have a handful of forces to rely upon, this usually means reloading to a 
 previous save (thankfully, you can save at any point) and trying again till you get it right. Or, 
 if one of a mission's critical characters gets killed (which happens often) , you'll instantly fail 
 and have to reload again. Sure, you can pause the game to give orders, but this brings the action 
 to a crawl, and it's not possible in the game's multiplayer or cooperative multiplayer modes.  
 

  This translates into a game where the pace feels off. Instead of spending most of the time immersed 
 in fighting, you'll be spending time cautiously moving forward, taking out a group of enemies, 
 and then pulling everyone back for healing and repair. It takes a couple of minutes for the medics 
 and repair vehicle to move up and do their work, so you spend a lot of time sitting around, waiting 
 on repairs or doing mundane tasks. For example, crossing a river becomes a tedious affair in micromanagement, 
 as you have to transport all your vehicles on a ferry one at a time, loading and unloading the 
 units, and then sending the ferry back and forth across the river.  

          You'll spend a lot of time sitting around, waiting for the medics and mechanics to do their 
 thing.     

  Combat is so lethal that there's no chance to explore tactics of any kind. Units have a very rock-scissors-paper 
 balance to them, so there's little focus on maneuvers and no room for unconventional thinking. 
 For example, if you can put a surveillance drone over an enemy area to locate surface-to-air missile 
 launchers, why can't you then purchase the cruise missiles or the stealth-fighter missions that 
 are in your purchase screen and take them out? Instead, the game requires you to use your ground 
 forces and take losses, even though air strikes and cruise missiles were developed to avoid this 
 situation altogether. These gameplay contrivances can add up. Tanks can pop smoke grenades and 
 hide in the thick clouds, but somehow the game glosses over that Western tanks have had thermal 
 sights that can see through smoke for decades, which is frustrating when you're in a desperate 
 tank battle and have to wait for smoke to disappear before your tanks can fire at an enemy tank 
 again. In the meantime, an enemy infantryman will run into view, and your tanks will forget all 
 about the other tank and focus on the lesser target, at which point the smoke will dissipate and 
 the enemy tank has a clear shot at your guys.  

  As you can tell, your guys need a lot of hand-holding, and aside from ducking, they don't seek 
 out cover all that well. In fact, despite that you're fighting in a lot of dense, city environments, 
 there's not that much cover in the game. Every now and then there are sandbags that your guys can 
 sidle up against, and the tiny little green arrows on the ground indicate they can be used for 
 cover. However, these are the only items in the game that let you do this, as you can't tell troops 
 to duck behind the pillars of a building or behind a car in the same way. The artificial intelligence 
 also has pathfinding issues, particularly with tanks in a tight setting, and you'll see your elite 
 troops drive in circles as they try to follow your orders.  

  To be fair, Joint Task Force does try to introduce interesting concepts. For instance, the game 
 tries to model today's media atmosphere by keeping score of collateral damage. The more civilians 
 that are killed, the worse it is for you, because the ever-present media projects the casualties 
 to the rest of the world. And, in a game where you've got to fight for cash to purchase reinforcements, 
 bad PR can be a nightmare. However, as admirable an idea this is for a game, it doesn't quite come 
 across that effectively, especially since we rarely had any issues with avoiding civilian casualties. 
 Also, it's ironic that even if you avoid civilian casualties the media will still complain about 
 your methods. The multiplayer is fun and fast-paced, with some innovative modes, as well. Dominion, 
 for instance, has you capturing flags on the map, which generates funds that you can use to request 
 reinforcements, so you'll see helicopters darting across the battlefield constantly to deliver 
 fresh troops. There are three playable factions in multiplayer, so it's not all Joint Task Force 
 squads going against one another, and you can see a wide array of modern military vehicles from 
 around the world blow up.  

          The visuals are pretty, but you can't hear the corny voice work in this screenshot.    

  On a machine that exceeded the recommended specs, the game ran a bit clunky, and some levels, such 
 as an oil-rig mission, brought the frame rate to a crawl. Still, Joint Task Force is a very pretty 
 game, and it's downright cool to see modern military machines tear apart the environment. Tanks 
 will roll through forests and fences, explosions will gut buildings, and incredibly sleek Black 
 Hawks will swoop over the map to deliver reinforcements and supplies. It's arguable whether modern 
 warfare has ever looked so good in a strategy game. Unfortunately, the audio isn't up to the same 
 standards, as the corny voice-over work will remind you of certain  Saturday Night Live  skits, 
 where the comedians play with their foreign accents. The rest of the sounds are fairly run of the 
 mill, as you'll hear the background sounds that you'd expect, such as the whoop of helicopter blades 
 and bursts of gunfire.  

  Joint Task Force is a game that exhibits flashes of fun at times, like when you finally cut loose 
 with your Apache helicopters and have them mercilessly hunt enemies down on the map. Still, it's 
 hard to recommend this game unless you're really into strategy games that require heavy micromanagement. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (42 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DaSoul
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Joint Task Force is one of those few strategy games i like. Its kind of difficult, but easy. Its generally 
 a good game with quite a few hitches.
  
  Graphics-8.5 out of 10
  
  The graphics are good looking, but they dont reach Company Of Heroes level. The buildings are destructible, but 
 there is no visual damage until the explosions. Soldiers and Vehicles look good, but the enemies 
 just lack detail.
  
  Gameplay-8.0 out of 10
  
  The gameplay is fast paced, and fun. The troop commanding is mostly simple, but can get overwhelming 
 at times. There are also ragdoll physics in the game which look kind of nice, but are mostly unrealistic, since 
 enemies laying down from the shots of an m16 start sliding in wierd positions, and standing up enemies 
 fly backward fast.
  
  AI-5.0 out of 10
  
  Here is where the game shows serious problems.
  For an instance, i had on a bridge a mobile artillery 
 and a tank. There was some space between them, but they couldnt manage to get past eachother, again, a 
 jeep on the side of the road stopped an APC from getting past it, though having a bit of empty to 
 the left and about 2 meters between the APC and the jeep. It was a small jeep. Sometimes you can 
 survive that, but the AI can really get frustrating sometimes
  
  Story-6.0 out of 10
  
  The story is mainly about different terrorists all over the globe doing bad stuff, and stealing 
 nuclear weapons and the usual. In the centre of everything you have Major O'Connell, who is a retired 
 soldier, who took part in the Black ops. Also there is a war reporter Pepper Morgan, who just happens 
 to be almost everywhere where O'Connel and JTF go. The story takes you over  
 and Iraq. The missions are fairly intresting tho repetitive, you constantly have to arrest or kill 
 terrorist leaders, escort hostages in UN trucks, destroy SAM towers and clear villages.
  
  Overall-7.6
  Joint Task Force is a great game ruined partly by the at some points horrific AI 
 and rather repetitive story, but the licensed war technology and decent graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: datadogg7888
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2008 9:17 am PT
Review:  They people may have not automatically taken cover but it was still a realistic game. But when 
 i saw this game it was a thumbs up, those of you that really don't like this game i am curious 
 as to why? It had realistic looking everything from vehicles to environments. People i believe 
 they could of added a bit more detail, and I didn't like the news reporter too much but it also 
 added to the realism seeing that the anti terrorist group was funded by the UN, and affected your 
 amount of credits. the ability for units to hide in the grass was also a great option for ambush 
 and whatnot. I also loved how crashing vehicles into buildings caused them to collapse. I have 
 never before in my life have had to put so much time into playing a game to complete the objective 
 while reducing the amount of civilian casualties. this one game that you should not build a giant 
 army and rampage the countryside with, although it does help to have a big army to disperse your 
 units around. But as in real life every decision has consequences. There is a lot that this game 
 could fix, but just as well did an amazing job at it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sentronentron
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 10, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  When I saw this game, I thought that I had to have it. I will admit, it was slightly lower grade 
 than I thought it was, but unlike some of the reviews I have read I would not call it "abysmal". 
 I actually find it a boring RTS in the beginning, I mean you start playing the game on the first 
 level using eight guys (The commander, a medic, and six rangers) . The game does not get really 
 good until you can get your hands on some artillery units, Apache Longbows, or some Abram tanks. 
 There are high points in the game, however on the videos you should just hit the "Escape" key. 
 They are not worth watching due to poor voice acting, and poor character movements. However, we 
 do not get games to watch movies.
  
  If you like something like Command & Conquer: Generals, that audience would probably find this 
 game more appealing, yet it is harder than that series. You are not given a construction yard, 
 and most of the time you have to just make due with the units you are given at the beginning, which 
 I think makes the game more realistic. I mean, if you are in an area of conflict and you lose a 
 tank, you cannot just snap your fingers and wow! There is another! No... This game makes that evident. 
 Like in most war games you have a media influence, which like in the others I have seen, it is 
 severely underplayed and might as well not be there at all...
  
  When it comes down to it, you have some awesome units, ranging from the BMP, Apache Longbows, MLRS 
 Rocket Artillery, The HIND, Harriers, and the Abrams Tank. Of course you will not see those at 
 the beginning, but when I first saw the Apache Longbow, I knew it was going to get better...
  
  
  
  Summing It Up:
  
  Graphics: 9.0
  The graphics in this game superseded anything 
 in its class considering it was made to run on even Windows 2000. The units as far as the vehicles 
 look well crafted, but the infantry units are not unique for their classes, everyone looks the 
 same until you get them promoted. Plus the afterburners on the A-10s bug me considering they do 
 not have them in the "real world".
  
  Gameplay: 7.0
  The gameplay is good for the most part, the missions are engaging for the most part, and the majority 
 of them require a tactic or strategy work on the user's part. Some points can get annoying in that 
 if you make one mistake, you have to start over from the beginning, and that the units do not always 
 stop where you tell them to because apparently they have better places in mind to go, but the vehicles 
 tend to obey better than the people.
  
  Audio / Video: 5.2
  The game features movies between missions, and none of them are actually worth watching because 
 the voice acting and character movements in them are unrealistic and poor. However, the voice acting 
 in game is much better than that of the movies. Just skip the movies. Man I love the "Esc" key...
 
  
  Multiplayer: [Internet: 1.0] [LAN: 8.0]
  I would give it lower on the Internet portion, but it is supposed to work, so I have to give it 
 something. I have never been able to get the Internet play to work, even after applying patches, 
 disabling all firewalls, and all that garbage. However, the LAN play can be fun so long as you 
 and your friend in co-op mode are not fighting over which units you want considering you both share 
 the units and a player can take control of any unit at any time, the face-off gameplay is good 
 too in LAN play, too bad it is hell to get the Internet play to work.
  
  Overall: 8.2
  While the game has faults, it is really an enjoyable game for me, since I am an avid fan of the 
 Command & Conquer: Generals game. The added realism from Generals makes this game worth much more 
 credit than it is being given, and from some of the reviews I have read, it appears that we have 
 two entirely different games. If you like Command & Conquer: Generals, and you want to get rid 
 of the childish aspects of it, this game removes all the fluff and replaces it with true existing 
 firepower. If you do get this game though, do not expect too much at the beginning, but it does 
 get better... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: john0479
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 4, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  All I can say is that I should have listened... This game wasn't worth the time, money (both electricity 
 to run it and cost of the game it's self) , and energy that was expended to install it on my PC. 
 I heard about JTF and thought, "Hey', I've not bought an RTS in awhile, I'll pick this up and see 
 how it goes". Bad choice. And here's why
  
  The AI is retarded, you order units to go to a location that is blocked by a mountain, and the 
 AI just heads right the damn thing thinking they are going to be magically teleported through it. 
 I don't know whether to laugh or cry... The sound effects are lame, voice acting is worse, and 
 graphics are definitely not up to snuff from what the game advertises....
  
  Just do yourself a favor if you must buy this game. Make sure that you spend 20 bucks or so on 
 a box of 12 gauge buckshot, so that when you realize that you're dissatisfied with it, at least 
 you can make use of the five discs (yes FIVE discs) as skeet targets!
  
  DON'T BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: otreblaciau
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2007 2:06 am PT
Review:  JTF is a realistic RTS, it isn't how others RTS: construct the base, harvest gold exc. here, you 
 have a tot of money (100k dollars) , with them you can buy units or vehicles but they will be transported 
 in the battlefield from an airplane or an helicopter but you must cover theese vehicles because 
 seomeone can destroy them. You can call a bomber for attack the enemies and go there with your 
 vehicles and infantry exc. You can buy Abrams, Artillery cannons, AA tanks, bradleys (full or empty) 
 and reparations truck with engineers for the reparations. The infantry is composed by "base soldiers", 
 commandos, medics, snipers, engineers, and you can equip them with missle launchers, C4, grenades, 
 grenade launcher exc.. with hard difficulty the game can be very hard but there are some small IA 
 bugs, for example: soldier behind a cover attacked by a sniper doesn't move and rest steady, under 
 fire. Buy it, it will be a good purchrase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNT11593
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 7, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  Gamespot what is wrong with you 6.5 this game is a 10 but only if you are wanting real strategy 
 first you don't build a base you have you units air droped and the units are so detailed on the 
 M1A2 Abrams you can actually see the commanders indepedent thermal viewer and other details and 
 the enviorments blow apart real good and you have to manage your resources becuase if you don't 
 they will be gone before you it and you can't just go blowing crap up if you do your money will 
 be reduced just like in a real war 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fleetlordavtar
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  graphics are very good and attention to detail. It is satisfying to see a trail of spent brass 
 fall to the ground after shooting from the scout chopper or the jet exhaust of the apache chopper. 
 Not bad is the rest of the game, but nothing offered new except the new angle which is annoying. 
 Just by luck the next game i installed was Codename Panzers. this JTF is pretty much panzers w/ 
 modern graphics and military weapons.
  
  Skip this poorly told and badly acted game for something else, i only played it cause i couldn't 
 take it back to the store... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: medic4hire
Rating: 2.8
Date: Aug 6, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  With the exception of Ship Simulator 2008, I believe this is the worste game I spent my money on. 
 There are just too many bugs to make it enjoyable. It lacks a unique RTS design, although it clearly 
 attempts to do so. The characters and acting can be compared to that of Team America: World Police 
 ; however not near as funny. If you are looking to fight terrorists then please play Battlefield 
 2. This game has poor graphics, an unfriendly interface and by all means will bore you to death. 
 Please I beg you, leave this one alone unless it costs less than $5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elwhash
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 26, 2007 2:40 am PT
Review:  Joint task force it's amazing game why u it takes that rank no it's have everything in game not 
 many unit but have everything u need but the bad one it's hamvee it's not powerful just only for 
 unarmed or not heavily unit or solider
  I'd like see another part for that game have many unit and generator of money because the money 
 it's really bad in that game the game have good story and beautiful graphic maybe no one noticed 
 some of units promoted in mission and at the next mission u will find them are there that's mean 
 if u need to take general of marksman and doctor and u have only one place to take one of them 
 don't worry next mission the doctor will promote to doctor like u want
  
  tanks it's like be real because tanks maybe take from one to three shoot to take it down and that 
 what happen in the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dozzpot
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2007 4:52 am PT
Review:  ... I liked the demo so much that I bought the company! Well, the game at least - and I can't wait 
 for it to arrive.
  
  Without the manual, it did take a bit of patience to get into the game despite having played Panzers 
 but once I sussed the controls and the importance of planning and correct weapon choice the demo 
 was a blast. If you are in any doubts about the game just get the demo. The first mission was over 
 in 5 minutes as all you have to do is run around a harbour, shoot a few enemies and get on the 
 boat. I will go back and have another look at that though for hidden objectives. The second mission 
 was great though and soaked up most of my Sunday. You do have to reload a lot and even see how 
 things pan out in order to get the correct equipment in place to succeed but this (minor) cheating 
 does not matter.
  
  The best part is the innovative reward system. I hate base-building games (including CoH, which 
 is only DoW in WWII fancy dress) as I don't find them realistic at all. I can see the point in 
 a fantasy scenario (I loved Warcraft III) where resource gathering can make sense but not in a 
 war sim. In JTF mission success results in cash prizes that are then spent on units and equipment. 
 This is a bit closer to reality (please read the excellent review by smartsurf (15 out of 18 users 
 agree with it) for more on this. The damage system is hit-points conventional but still okay and 
 better than in CoH where you can drive a tank up and down a mine field until it blows up (what 
 rubbish - check out Soldiers: Heroes of WWII for the right way to do it but avoid the painful successor, 
 Faces of War) . In fact, if this was crossed with Soldiers, which also brings more options for stance 
 and taking cover we would have the perfect RTS!
  
  Given the equipment options there is loads of scope for replayability as you can choose a ground 
 based attack, air support, long range artillery etc. etc.
  
  The graphics are also top notch - the vehicle details are superb. I love pausing the game and just 
 zooming in and out just to look at them.
  
  I don't understand why this game is so unknown, it's great! I am giving it a 10 to try and bring 
 up the user average as the Gamespot figure is totally misleading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: balutpenoy
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 28, 2007 12:33 am PT
Review:  A graphics that is beautifully rendered, an innovative approach to resource management, troops 
 get promoted and rewarded w/ bonus points to help in your cause, a bargain price @ $19.++, a music 
 that is apt to its time and place and a storyline as it unfolds on todays news, yes its JTF at 
 its finest. If only the developer of this game did not rush this in time for Company of Heroes 
 and prefer to tweaks its shortcomings as in the following:
  
  1. Path finding is ALMOST ALWAYS a problem. 2. Actions or encounters is over in less than 5 seconds, 
 ( yes in a split second the troops you equipped for 2 mins is gone in seconds.)
  
  3. M I C R O M A N A G E M E N T there I even spelled it out for you. You fight, you either win 
 or loose but you will definitely need to restore health for the troops, repair &amp; rearms vehicles 
 and then you go back again and fight, yes I know its the way to win... but for every single encounter? 
 You lost the MOMENTUM of EXHILARATION of attacking your opponent in the process.
  
  4. If there is lock and load, this is a SAVE &amp; LOAD game. You will definitely be saving and 
 loading games countless times. TIP moved the saved game to 15mins interval.
  
  5. Yes you got ageia physics, bodies fly when hit or shot at, BUT... can they even think to at least 
 run or hide for the nearest cover? and oh yeah the helicopters they crashed / burned just left 
 there suspended in mid air. If you can get over with what I have enumerated and encountered then 
 this game is for you.
  
  P. S. Did I ever mentioned you to get the patch first @ sierra before you even get to play the game? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uneek_808
Rating: 4.9
Date: May 30, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  JTF is heavy on the micromanagement and pacing is off, for example you could be in a intense exciting 
 battle then the next minute you could just be waiting around for your next objective or wait for 
 your troops as they make long trips in between objectives. Voice acting is awful. Story mode not 
 too exciting but bearable. Skirmish A. I. are cheap and multiplayer maps are plain and unexciting. 
 Hero units make little difference in gameplay. The Good things about this game in my opinion is 
 the real life weapons and vehicles and heli units. I wouldnt recommend this game but if you played 
 everything else and their arent any good RTS games left to play, if you can find this game in a 
 bargain bin then just give this game a try til a better RTS comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: salwanmax
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 22, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  If you are (like me) in love with RTS games that focus on strategy instead of arcade style competitions 
 (the kind of build factories, then 100 tanks then 100 soldiers then attack... boring) .
  
  This game is about strategy, limited resources and actual judgments.
  It is also realistic in 
 an interesting way.
  If you happen to be a sudden strike fan (like me) then you will like this one.
  
  There are 
 several strategies that you can use to achieve objectives, you can for example depend on long range 
 artillary, on air units and air support, or depend on ground units. but you cannot use all of these 
 at the same time because of limited resources.
  
  Enjoy :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightningspark
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 12, 2007 6:10 am PT
Review:  i love and this is a very nice game a lot of people have this game already and its great its may 
 have a LOW rating here but i gave it a high rating since this game attracts nearly everyone that 
 loves fighting and shooting GAMES my relatives also loves this game :D but not as nearly as thousands 
 so i give this game a great rating seeing that it has a great audience all types :D well this game 
 is also good seeing it has a older audience too people who has been in wars or in the army ETC. 
 loves games like this cause maybe it reminds them of something GOOD :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Are_You_Morbid
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 24, 2007 9:52 pm PT
Review:  When I started playing this game at first I found it interesting. As I proceeded through the campaign 
 I found it addictive and I couldn't leave the PC.
  The graphics are awesome although the in-game videos are not that impressive. Gameplay is good. 
 No complains there. Sound excellent. The unit types are very interesting as well as the fact that 
 they advance in levels and gain special abilities. The maps are great and the difficulty of the 
 missions as it should be, although I have the impression that in the normal difficulty is a bit 
 easy.
  The story line is interesting and solid adding to the game more points. Management of resources 
 was excellent as it limits the amoynt of troops you can bring in the field allowing for more planning 
 and savings, till the time comes you need to spent.
  In general a really great game and I personally can't wait for a sequel! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mab1901
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 22, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  I just wanted to say that JTF if givin its real rank, it would take a good amount of market share 
 from the upcoming World in Conflict !!!
  
  They are announcing all the way that WiC will change the way of strategy games!!, well; I think 
 JTF did already ...
  
  the only issue with JTF is unit moving and maneuvering, which I guess would be solved in a patch 
 or a next version. Other than this the game let you play strategy for real.
  
  I played the game on a P4 3.2 GHz, 2GB RAM and ATI X700 GPU, the game was fun to play, though in 
 some missions I wished I had a powerfull graphic card. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smartsurf
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  I am quickly losing all respect for GAMESPOT'S reviews. Over and over I read bad or mediocre reviews 
 just to find a game is excellent, while many high marked games are either garbage or over-rated. 
 JOINT TASK FORCE is such an example of a biased piss-poor review that is becoming the standard 
 here at GAMESPOT.
  
  The reviewer calls it a short coming because you have to do so much planning before striking - 
 well gee - ain't that just how REAL war is! Whine, whine, whine over using a ferry that only fits 
 one vehicle at a time - gee - that's how it is IN REAL LIFE WAR!
  
  Have we become so jaded and CARTOONISH in our game tastes that unless we can run around like a 
 bunch of madmen, RUNNIN' AND GUNNIN' without the least bit or thought of STRATEGY just build up 
 as many unrealistic units and SWARM the enemy. THIS AIN'T HOW REAL WAR IS FOUGHT! And if it was, 
 the CAPTAIN PEACHFUZZ who planned it would not only be defeated, but COURT MARTIALLED!
  
  Joint Task Force puts the STRATEGY back into real-time-STRATEGY games, something that is lacking 
 in most. Sure you don't have the FANTASY of a Supreme Commander that can blow out of his fist an 
 entire airport and vehicle manufacturing plant - gee - the REAL military would LOVE this  
 But let's get back to reality.
  
  In a REAL war, the military doesn't have to mine ore and energy or water for that matter - it has 
 it's suppiles DROPPED-IN, ala JOINT TASK FORCE. In the REAL world you can't just CREATE soldiers 
 out of nothing in the battle field, they have to be FLOWN-IN ala Joint Task Force.
  
  Snap out of this mundane FANTASY-WORLD for a moment to realize that real battles are not planned 
 and hopefully not fought in the utter chaos that IS most RTS games. Many are slow moving, strategic 
 and are called OPERATIONS for a reason. Joint Task Force brings into to play some extremely well-done 
 SPECIAL OPS missions, carried out by a a few units. Each solider is an RPG game in itself, as they 
 are able to increase their abilities and what they can bring to the battlefield as they gain experience 
 - gee - just like the REAL WORLD.
  
  No, if playing mind-numbing runnin' and gunnin' DEATHMATCHES are your favorite type of game, Joint 
 Task Force is NOT for you, but if you like THE REAL DEAL - FINALLY - Somebody got it right, and 
 right in a BIG WAY.
  
  I give it a 10 in it's overall strategy planning and realism on a realistic battlefield. Anyone 
 who has been in the military will tell you - THIS IS HOW REAL WAR IS WAGED.
  
  A BIG TEN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 8, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  Well let me tell you if you REALLY base a game off the storyline and dialogue, then look elsewhere. 
 But if you don't care about those two things.. then let me point out that JTF is an excellent Tactical 
 RTS game. Just like Act of War where one lvl 3 heavy sniper can practically take out the entire 
 map.. it is just like that.. but in fact you can do the entire map using one guy if you so wanted. 
 This isn't true in the later (last 5 operations) since you will need to defend positions.. But 
 for the most part you can just do the game using one guy. Besides the fact you can do this.. you 
 can also take along with you some of your leveled soldiers.. in effect keeping the good soldiers 
 you used. So although you CAN take out an entire level with one person, you just might want to 
 start with working up a marksman, vehicle commander, engineer, or medic, as well as a pilot. Those 
 would be the most useful units you want to promote.. the commando and ranger are a waste.. that 
 is what O' Connel is for (your main character) . The maps change enough to make the game very fun 
 and addictive. So let me break it down:
  
  Gameplay: Awesome, you can hide behind sandbags to prevent excess damage, use enemy artillery and 
 tanks/vehicles. Virtually anything the enemy uses you can use as well. It is a pretty straightforward 
 game. If your used to other RTSs then you will have no problem picking this up with no problem. 
 The game even has a tutorial :) (you can essentially toss the manual, you don't really require 
 it)
  
  Graphics: Breathtaking... later levels show off the detail that the game has to offer.. If you noticed 
 in Act of War the units zoomed in looked like Quake 1 characters.. blocky.. this is not the case 
 in JTF.. the detail is far better in this game than in Act of War. Sound: Perfect.. The sounds 
 in the game feel powerful.. and are appropriate. Value: Now this is where I usually get picky.. 
 but as with any RTS the replayability is very much there. With the added feature of promoting your 
 units and being abe to KEEP them for next map.. it adds more value to the single player campain 
 than ever. I have to give this game a great score.. If it just improved in the overall story and 
 dialogue.. it would get my vote as a perfect 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robo_arm
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 15, 2007 1:23 am PT
Review:  Am big fan for c&amp; c zero to, but I thing its time for a new idea and simulated strategic game 
 with real life combat missions, maybe a planet vr planet simulation that I can concur the other 
 planet and the others can do  
 fundamentally improves the core game, being so focused on style over substance, but it can also 
 be quite frustrating at times
  
  Am big fan for c&amp; c zero to, but I thing its time for a new idea and simulated strategic game 
 with real life combat missions, maybe a planet vr planet simulation that I can concur the other 
 planet and the others can do 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evelazcoro
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 19, 2006 4:27 am PT
Review:  I am a big CC Zero Hour fan and let me tell youto me there is nothing better than a real warfare 
 game like this. This is as close as you can get to the real thing. Love the overall game play; 
 on this one the AI is more alert and a lot smarter for single players. I guess you could say that 
 I found a new replacement to my old Zero Hour. The graphics on this game are amazing witch mean 
 only one thing... you better upgrade if you have an old system. The scenarios, equipment and soldiers 
 are startling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aricvg
Rating: 5.1
Date: Oct 30, 2006 3:10 am PT
Review:  As far as the demo went I really enjoyed it so much so that I bought the game. The problem is that 
 it won't run at all it just locks up the system. I looked around on the internet and tried everything 
 suggested and even sent sierra (VU games) a support email never got it to work. I still haven't 
 heard back from tech support and I just reinstalled a fresh copy of windows and it still won't 
 work so I am lost. If you can get it to work great I think it would have been a fun game. I have 
 never ever in my life seen something that was this incompatible with a system and it kind of reminds 
 me of the days of DOS and trying to work with EMS and XMS to get something running but that was 
 easier then this..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bradleg
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 8, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  I played a game list this about 15 years ago. Its the army men theme where you have a small squad 
 of men and equipment and you perform missions. I have played most of the missions on the regular 
 setting and had fun with each mission. I am looking forward to replaying the missions on the hard 
 setting. Personally, I love the game and rate it a 9.5. I am hoping that they make at least 3 more. 
 For some reason, I seem to like is more than Command and Conquer, which is close to sacrilege for 
 RTS fans. Id pay $100 per copy for more missions. Id really love it if they could multiply the 
 scale by 10 add generals (or something else) that could assist you. Make the maps bigger and 
 allow for either macro or micro management. The generals will micromanage until you opt to take 
 over. I really cant get into the multiplayer side of games because of time and commitments. If 
 you like small to medium combat try it. I love it. More missions please... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sethur
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 6, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  i only want to say something about graphics to requirements relation. this is ridiculous for a 
 game like this to have sucj requirements. JTF doesn`t look 100 times better than other old RTS 
 but it has 100000 higher requirements. that is a shame. generall a big fuc* off for games with 
 such requirements to graphics index. Developers should polish their products before they release 
 them. not everyone can thow their hard earned money to afford a pc that can smoothly run this graphics-mediocre 
 game. WTF WTF WTF WTF WTF WTF WTF WTF WTF WTF WTF WTF WTF WTF WTF WTF WTF WTF WTF WTF WTF all consoles 
 run their titles smoothly, there are no slowdows, You buy a game you play it - that`s how it should 
 be done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Subw00fer
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 5, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  When I first saw the preview of this game, I was impressed. I thought that someone finally made 
 a decent modern combat simulator. Hell, was I wrong. I haven't played the complete game, just the 
 demo and it was enough to take away the urge I had about upgrading my PC, mainly to be able to 
 play this game. The AH-64 Apache don't even come with sidewinder missiles, what the heck is that!! 
 The Commodore 64 had a game named Gunship 20 YEARS AGO (Gunship) and although the graphics were 
 not as good as they are today (at what price!?) , at lest the guys who did the game took care at 
 putting the right number of Hellfire missiles, Sidewinders, 30 mm chain gun rounds (1200) on the 
 chopper frame. Joint task force falls very short of feeling real, once you've played for a while. 
 You're on a budget compared to the enemy cash flow. I wont buy this game. And I dearly miss Microprose. 
 They used to make the best combat simulators.
  
  I hope that game designers will one day understand that better, faster graphics are NOT what make 
 a combat simulator great to have fun with. It's the whole package, how real the units appear to 
 be. And I probably wont buy no PS3/ Wii until one of these two can come with a combat simulator 
 that is worth it. And you will need a monster to get a decent frame rate! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reindeer911
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 4, 2006 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Joint Strike Force is essentially a modern warfare version of Codename: Panzers. The mechanics 
 and overall play are remarkably similar, and fans of the Panzers series should enjoy JTF and feel 
 right at home. On the other hand, people who didn't like Panzers will probably not like JTF for 
 the same reasons. Likewise, people who are expecting something along the lines of Act of War or 
 C&amp; C might likewise be disappointed, as this game is different in many ways... perhaps that's 
 what the reviewer was expecting when he played this game. Yes, there is more micromanagement than 
 in AoW, funding is based upon performance as opposed to scrounging for resources on the battlefield, 
 and indiscriminately blasting everything in sight will work against the player. Also, many of the 
 strategies that work with games like AoW will not work with JTF. One example that comes to mind 
 is setting up a ring of turrets around the base, and letting the enemy beat themselves to death 
 while building up a huge force in relative safety, and then crushing the opponent with relative 
 impunity, and/or trying to choke off their source of income by going after their mining trucks 
 or oil wells. It also means the ability to plan a coordinated assault is critical in this game, 
 and that in turn means that one has to think ahead. Finally, there are no fantasy elements in this 
 game like cloaking devices or power armor for the troops. Dont get me wrong I really enjoyed 
 AoW, but to attempt to compare JTF to that game is neither fair nor accurate.
  
  Gameplay: I think Ive pretty well summed up my thoughts above.
  Graphics: Excellent.
  Sound: 
 OK, but nothing spectacular. Voice acting is indeed a bit corny. Value: Pros the additions of 
 the multiplayer and skirmish modes add a lot to the replayability of the game. Cons Instructions 
 could have been a little better. Current shelf price of $50 seems a little high for what you get. 
 If the game were priced at say $40, I would have given it a better score. Tilt: I personally like 
 the approach that JTS has taken. Verdict: Again, for fans of Codename: Panzers, JTS is definitely 
 worth taking a look! P. S. To Jason Ocampo, the Gamespot reviewer of this game... Actually your 
 comment about western tanks using thermal imaging to see through smoke is not quite correct. The 
 Russians deployed an aerosol grenade system on their tanks that is supposed to defeat thermal imaging 
 systems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ac190075
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 30, 2006 3:15 am PT
Review:  The first impression I get from this game is that its a bad version of Ground Control 2 with a 
 campaign storyline from Command &amp; Conquer Generals. Not that its sorely lacking in any essence 
 but the job could have been much better. The gameplay requires intense micromanagement. Sure, so 
 did GC2 but the extent in this game wears you down. I spent most of my time loading and unloading 
 units into vehicles through the gameplay. Of course, being intensely micromanaging means that you 
 get more tactical gameplay rather than just strategic. However, there are other games out there 
 (Company of Heroes for instance) that balance the entire RTS experience out. Imo, an RTS needs 
 to provide both strategic and tactical exposure in a game and this one seems to be basically tactical. 
 However, in regards to tactics, unit variety goes hand in hand with it. That is one place I didn't 
 find this game lacking in. Its unit variety, specially with the infantry more than satisfied me. 
 CoH on the other hand needs more variety in its own gameplay.
  The graphics are pretty good - of course they would have to be to compete with its contemporaries 
 out there. However, this game is more demanding on a system than its counterparts. This can be 
 clear just from comparing its recommended specs to that of say CoH. CoH asks for more video memory 
 but actually runs great without demanding much from your system. I believe the developers could 
 have paid more attention to this and done a marginally better job. I didn't care for the audio 
 much in this game. The sound effects seem to be not up to par as far as I'm concerned. Sorry about 
 all the CoH comparisons but its the only other contemporary RTS I am playing at the moment.
  The campaign storyline itself is quite confusing. You're basically thrown into different locales 
 for the sake of variety and the plot ties itself together quite badly. If this was going to take 
 a page from C&amp; C Generals' book then it should have done so instead of confusing players with 
 its haphazard storyline.
  In summary, this game is quite mediocre, at least to me. Hopefully other gamers out there like 
 the experience but I was genuinely bored with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bsjessee
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 1, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Joint Task Force has some great things going for it. First is the amazing attention to detail. 
 The graphics are quite beautiful and the environment is entirely destructible. It is also very 
 real. Just get used to the fact that you are going to lose units. A tank can whipe out four infantry 
 with a well placed shot, but three infantry can kill a tank before it fires once if there is the 
 element of surprise. The hero units are very fun to play with and upgrading them adds an extra 
 element to the game. Overall anyone who likes strategy games won't be dissapointed. Now the lacking 
 parts. The missions seem too linear at times, only one objective that can only be beaten one way, 
 fortunately this is not all missions. The realism os losing units so easily can get very frustrating 
 if your hero is killed causing you to lose the mission. The media attention doen't play that much 
 of a role in the game, something that seemed to be very new and groundbreaking just wasn't there. 
 In conclusion, this is a fun game that will keep you playing for hours, but the few glitches will 
 just make you wonder how wonderful this game could have been if the developers had delayed it another 
 three months and worked out some issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danjohnson3141
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 14, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  After finishing CoH I was still jonesing for some RTS to I bought this after playing the demo. 
 I knew it wasn't nearly as good as CoH and the community wasn't all that thrilled by it but I bought 
 it amyway. Now I'm out $50 because I can't get it to run and the tech support doesn't seem to care. 
 From the official forums I can see lots of others are having my problem and the lame recommendations 
 which work for some are not helping my problem.
  
  Stay away from this shovelware.
  
  This has to be at least 100 words long by now. Why the stupid minimum?
  
  Update: I finally 
 got this to work. Still not sure what did it but once it worked I really liked this game. I had 
 to resort to cheat codes to finish two levels because of triggering issues but it was still a great 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mp503
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 30, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  hi this game is alright if u like watching ur only tank get destroyed its not for u if u rlke me 
 u like rolling over the enemy with massive anount of troops tanks and aircraft but if u like cammanding 
 jst five guys and hummer this one is for u but im not to pretty satisfied about this
  so ill see ya playin camand and conquer 3 wen tht comes out it will blow this agme out oof the 
 water along with halo wars la lalalalalalalalalalalallal al al al al a l a l al a la la la la la 
 la la la 
  
  i needed altelst 100 words srry 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timeline00
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 29, 2006 12:39 am PT
Review:  while two words are enough: Very good !
  
  It rocks. ITF is a game where you must use your tactical skill. It is not a game for click fire 
 spammers or mass army lovers. You need to plan your battles carefully and you also have to stop 
 , re-arm and repair in order to constantly sustain and be able to deliver a strong combat ready 
 force.
  If your interested in the singleplayer aspect I'd definately say get the game as soons as possible 
 . This game is like a chess RTS , so it is more like tactical simulator and no arcadish stuff. 
 The patch 1.1 fixes some bugs and adds new maps to the multiplayer stock. The multiplayer (1.1) 
 still suffers from some minor bugs but most of them are because routers and firewalls need 'to 
 be tuned'. Once done, you can start the multiplayer games.
  
  The community is friendy, healty and passionate. This is the cherry on the cake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herodotus2006
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 3, 2007 3:39 am PT
Review:  Actof War-Direct Action threw you onto the urban battlefields with modern armies. No simplified 
 generic rural townships dominating (as in C&amp; C Generals ) , but easily recognized capital city-scapes. 
 AoW-High Treason upped the graphical ante (Mission One has you on top of a skyscraper with the 
 lights of heavily congested traffic swirling below) and, unfortunately upped the difficulty level 
 to extremes in some missions. The difficulty level, however, forced you to think more tactically 
 and to replay missions quite often ( Uh oh, if I go this way, a plane explodes engulfing my men 
 in flames. Won't do that again. ) . So here we are again. If you look at the screenshots, and think 
 Ahhh, looks like I've been there before!?! , then you have. Watch the trailers, read the reviews. 
 If you have AoW , then wait 'til this one comes out with a discount price. Busy yourself with Company 
 of Heroes , or replay Act of War , and by that time it should be available at half the price. Then 
 maybe it'll be worth it. Disappointing, as the previous game released by this company was Jupiter: The 
 Nexus Incident which was Battlestar Galactica meets Homeworld2 (in other words, a great experience 
 which I enjoyed far more than HW2 , and on an equal par with Homeworld: Cataclysm ) . 'nuff said. 
 The graphics are excellent. At first nothing really stands out above the C&amp; C: G fare, but then 
 you see the dust swirls around moving vehicles, the rippling from small boats on the riverways 
 and the distorted engine heat emenating from an Apache's turbofans. The environment is fully destructible, 
 but shell craters do fade after a short period of time unlike CoH . Speaking of which, you get 
 the feeling that HD rushed this out the door to co-release with Relic's superb product. Bad move. 
 Sales, according to EB have been relatively non-existent and the Forums on the website have gone 
 dormant.
  
  Biggets problems are:
  1/ Trying to keep your hero units alive to pass the mission
  2/ Dreadful AI pathing for vehicles
 
  3/ Styrange mssion design where you find the true objectives only by failing the first attempt
 
  4/ DON'T LOAD THE Ver.1.1 PATCH. Cheats don'ts work, the enemy AI becomes super-aggressive while 
 your own troops' health level drops remarkably fast, and mission accomplishment times are shortened. 
 BAD MOVE HD!!!
  5/ Using a graphics engine that some GeForce cards doesn't support (lucky if you can get the game 
 to run on some) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soseta
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 26, 2006 3:55 am PT
Review:  The one who made this review doesn't know **** about modern warfare games. This game deserve a 
 score from 8 above.
  It deserves to be played and it will not let you down. Don't believe the official score, it's untrue!
 
  
  In order to play the game at the recommended resolution, detail and performance levels, your computer 
 should meet or exceed the following specifications:
  
   Pentium (R) 4 3.0 GHz or equivalent processor
   1 GB RAM
   GeForce (TM) 6800 or equivalent 
 DirectX (R) 9 compliant video card with hardware T&amp; L and pixel shader 2.0 support
   Sound Blaster (R) X-Fi (TM) series sound card
  
  Please download the latest Joint Task Force 
 patch before playing.
  Please download the latest Windows (R) service pack before playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slimbolen99
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 25, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  A warning for those of you who have MX video cards from Nvidia! DO NOT PURCHASE THIS GAME!
  
  You will notice (I did not) that the minimum specifications on the bottom of the box indicate 
 that you must have a NVIDIA GeForce 4 (non-MX) video card.
  
  On Sierra's website for the game http://www. sierra. com/en/home/support/sierra_support. html, there 
 is NO MENTION OF THIS. Nor is there a mention of this on gamespot. com.
  
  Also, Sierra's tech support did not even know this - it took them 30 minutes to figure out why 
 my game would not play.
  
  SO, make sure you have the proper hardware before purchasing this game. I'm going to have to wait 
 4-6 weeks before I get my refund. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btwillett2003
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 20, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good game, from the graphics to the gameplay. The detail on the units and objects 
 is breathe taking. The fluid movement of the units moving through the environment is great. Hummers, 
 tanks and apcs running down walls and fences is awsome. This game... well... you cant just rush through 
 it. There is actually skill involved in this. You have to treat every unit like it is your only 
 guy (or else it will be) . Infantry does a lot of damage if they are using the right equipment for 
 the job. AT rockets and Gernade launchers are a must have in order to take out APCs, tanks, gun 
 emplacements, etc. If you have a number of choppers, don't just group them up and go searching 
 for enemies, trees and cover prevent the choppers from seeing hidden guys and before you know it 
 your choppers will have a few anti aircraft rockets coming at them. Performance wise the game runs 
 great. If you have a high end system you should have no problem running this game. If you do have 
 any problems try turning off your AA. I had mine running at 2x and that doesnt seem a lot but for 
 this game, the trees, water, rocks, buildings, people, vehicles, explosions, etc. Add that up and 
 the AA will drag your system down. From 2x to off for my AA made a night and day difference. Over 
 all the game is great, something new every mission, many ways to complete the mission also. From 
 airstrikes, to cruise missiles, this game is a must have if you like to think and blow everything 
 up at the same time... lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Athanasios_gr
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 20, 2006 6:09 am PT
Review:  For anyone that hasn't head of this RTS that was just released (12nd September) , stretch your ears 
 because it's one of the best (if not the best) RTS of the year. The marketting campaign of the 
 company is known to be bad, hence you may have not heard of it; but what the developers lack in 
 babbling, they make it up for their huts-down work.
  
  JTF is not like CoH (Company of Heroes) , you control spec forces that do anti-terrorist missions 
 around the world. Something like SWAT in RTS, but way better.
  
  I tried both JTF and CoH demos and i have to say that JTF has 100000000000% more detailed and smooth 
 graphics; just look through a Harrier cockpit and you see that the guys actually modeled a real 
 cockpit! Now, take that simple example and put it on all effects, maps (it's the first time i saw 
 so sweet and detailed maps - what's more, you can make such ones yourself!) and units and you get 
 the point.
  
  Some of the features:
  
  * Ragdoll physics (the game is actually made for AGEIA PhysX cards)
  * Adverse weather conditions 
 affecting gameplay
  * Line of sight, height advantage, camouflage in/behind physical objects
  * Levelling up of troops 
 and ability to assign officers
  * In-building combat (buildings are as detailed as the enviroment)
  * Direct (3rd person view) 
 control of units
  * Licensed real-world weapons (no fictional/ nicknamed stuff)
  * Nice variety of troops and vehicles, bombers and other stuff (ie. sattelite scan, Predator scan)
 
  * Almost real damage/armor system (ie. sniper one shot = one kill )
  * Ammunition (excluding bullets) is not infinite, you must reload your vehicles with ammo and your 
 soldiers can buy in-field secondary weapons (C4, AA, AT-4, Thermit, Grenades etc) ; mobile repair 
 units is for these jobs
  * Not another build forces/factories RTS; you order your forces (if you have the cash needed) and 
 they are deployed in the field; transport chopper for troops and supply/ammo packs, air carrier 
 for heavy vehicles (you need to control an airfield for this)
  * PAUSE ability to set down your orders
  * Jaws-down effects (just check videos, can't describe 
 what Physics can do...)
  * Fully destructable enviroment * Fully interactive enviroment; steal cars, boats, enemy vehicles, 
 use static guns etc)
  * Clever AI (will take cover, prone, fire with secondary weapons if needed)
  * Media coverage 
 on most missions; your actions will affect your funds. Do everything by the book and you're ok, 
 start blowing up civilian buildings/people and you'll end up fighting with stones and woods
  * 5 different campaigns around the world, 20 missions with interesting scenarios
  * Co-operative, 
 Domination, Deathmatch MP &amp; Player-defined MP games
  * 3 MP factions
  * Many storyline movies
  * Motion-captured animations
  * Map edittor that you can make everything 
 with few strikes
  .
  .
  .
  
  Get the demo from Gamespot and you'll remember me. And don't forget to check the official trailers 
 (not that much the gameplay -tagged ones) and reviews from Gamespot again; they really blow up 
 some minds . Responding to some other reviewers:
  
  - The camera pitch angle is a bit limited now, but if you do take the time to check the official 
 forums, it's #1 issue mentioned by the community and it is more than sure that it will be fixed 
 in patch 1.2 along with other minor issues (that do not distract from gameplay though) .
  
  - The MP side of the game is dead now indeed, but the game has only about a week that's been released 
 and, apart from that, most players are playing the campaigns. Yet, developers have stated in the 
 forums that they're making a tool to bring the community closer.
  
  - If you are a fan of C&amp; C, Starcraft and other spamfest - arcadish games, then do take in account 
 that this game is not for those that can build up fast and click the mouse faster . It's for those 
 that like serious RTS, in other words RTS that force you to think for your very single move, rather 
 than building 100 units and rushing the enemy. It's more like Commandos, Close Combat and SWAT 
 in RTS as officially mentioned. So, don't blame the game if it's highly realistic... Personally, 
 i believe that the 40 euros paid for the game are worth of it till the last euro. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 6.2
Date: Sep 19, 2006 4:44 am PT
Review:  First of all I have to say that I wish people would stop writing reviews of demo versions. I was 
 surprised to see about 5 reviews of this game a week before it was released and demos simply do 
 not do the full games justice.
  
  I really wanted to get into this game and enjoy it but I can't. I love RTS war type games, but 
 to this date no one can match up to the high quality of the Command &amp; Conquer series.
  
  I spent 8 hours on and off playing on the first day of release and got to the 5th level then 
 the next day a massive patch came out which is not compatible with previous save games so I had 
 to start all over again. Given that I had played the demo previously I have now played the first 
 few levels 3 times !
  
  Given that a big patch was released only a day after the game went on sale, I suspect this title 
 was rushed to the shops given the impending release of the similar Company of Heroes this week.
 
  
  The story behind the game which starts off in a modern day setting fighting terrorists in somalia, 
 is pretty good, but the title is let down by poor cartoonish graphics which make the game look 
 about 5 years old. It adopts the Aegia physics engine so there are some nice effects and its good 
 to see buildings realistically destruct. Despite the low quality graphics, even on my high end 
 rig (GEFORCE 7800gtx) frame rates can be noticeably choppy.
  
  The 5.1 surround sound is pretty good, but again along with the poor graphics, the game is let 
 down by poor, annoying and unconvincing voice acting.
  
  The game is challenging and in some places too hard, so you end up playing the same bit over and 
 over again. General gameplay is just what you would expect from a typical war type RTS.
  
  As for multiplayer don't even bother. I have tried an online game several times but there is hardly 
 ever anyone playing. I have never seen any more than 5 people in the chat lobby and when someone 
 does set up a game, myself and none of the other players have been able to manage to establish 
 a connection to each other, so I suspect another patch will be coming soon - although I hope it 
 doesn't overwrite all previous save games again !
  
  It is certainly worth playing but does not match up to the quality of either C&amp; C Generals or 
 Act of War (the latter of which I disliked intensely) . If you are going to buy it I would wait 
 until you can pick it up in the bargain bin, but it certainly isn't wrth the full price of a new 
 release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gundoc
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Ok so here is the deal, if you have played any of the Codename Panzer games and enjoyed them than 
 you will love JTF. Both games use the Gepard Game engine to create fantastic visuals and imersive 
 enviroments. As far as gameplay goes there is little difference between the two. I do like the 
 way JTF handles your resources in the fact that you only get a certain amount of money to spend 
 on new units. However you do get cash bonuses for completing objectives. The enemy AI is fairly 
 easy in the earlier missions but once you get to the middle of the second scenario the difficulty 
 increases dramatically. Not so much on a strategic level but in the shear amount of enemy units 
 you will be confronted with. You realy have to start planning wisely on which units to purchase, 
 choose poorly and you might as well restart the level. It really sucks to spend about $350K on 
 a Blackhawk full of troops to see them get blown out of the sky by enemy AA. Your Satellite and 
 UAV drones quickly become you best friend. That being said the different units you can purchase 
 are varied and each has a specific job in the whole sceam of things. Sniper=recon, Medic=Health 
 regeneration and so on. One of the most satisfying moments is when you call in your first airstrike, 
 be it from and A-10 or cruise missle. There is just something really gratifying about blowing the 
 hell out of an enemy tank formation. The missions themselves are long enough to keep you playing 
 but not long enough to tire you out, on average about 45min-1hr per mission. Keep in mine that 
 I do play conservatively so your times may vary. Some of the issues from the Codename Panzer games 
 still exist, your units do sometimes get a little confused as to which route to take to get the 
 their destination. It only really happens when ordering a large group of units together. They tend 
 to just bump into each other and go around in circles. I found that by pausing the games (pressing 
 spacebar) and giving the units each and individual order is the way to get around this rather annoying 
 bug. Other than that the game is a pretty solid RTS. Its not some resource managing chore like 
 some others. The action is exciting and the presentation is nicely done. I have not played the 
 multiplayer aspect of the game yet but Im sure that if it is anything like the single player than 
 it will be a hit. I did purchase both Company of Heroes and Joint Task Force on the same day and 
 as I am gleefully pleased with both I do enjoy JTF much more. On a score of 0-10 with 10 being 
 the highest I would rate JTF a solid 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BZO66
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 18, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  bout time someone came out with a RTS that used current REAL WORLD weaponry!
  
  as far as im concerned, this game is the OUTSTANDING follow up to Will of Steel (good premise, 
 but very poorly designed) which used some of the current equipment that our courageous troops use 
 in the field in Iraq &amp; Afganistan, the Sat scan feature is very good, the Drone/A-10 &amp; 
 Stealth options are really great!
  
  i love WW II RTS games and now i have a RTS game that fits with the modern warfare scenarios.
 
  
  my learning curve was short because i DL the single player DEMO 2 weeks before the full game came 
 out, and that played a huge part in my understanding of how the game is played.
  
  THANKS TO SIERRA / HD pub &amp; MOST WANTED for putting together a solid game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muhammad_1
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2006 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Magnificent game with excellent graphics especially the anisotropic filtration and physical effects. 
 Sound is very good, size of vehicles compared with individual units is very good .Resources should 
 be managed wisely otherwise game would be very difficult. Game with this quality only need the 
 idea of building military basses and collecting resources and it would be Amazing. The game also 
 requires a little bit smoothness as Age of Mythology and it would be one of the most successful 
 real time strategy game ever made. The only problem I faced was the disappearance of hints after 
 1 time appearance. Physical effects was totally amazing especially fires and vehicle exploding. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mifoor
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 14, 2006 11:19 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I am reviewing the full game, not just the demo. There are several good things about JTF 
 and some minor annoying things-
  
  Good-
  Not another WW2 game
  Soldiers can level up and get bonus skills
  ability to take direct control of soldiers for those 
 pathfinding SNAFU's
  quick save and load times- so dying isn't all that bad
  the ability to play the game slow and careful or all out Blitz
  not another base building game
 
  grouping macros
  AI is okay- (will auto use RPG against tank and AA against chopper)
  infinite small caliber ammo- don't worry about going Bingo on bullets (which is why you should 
 not care about looting dead soldiers guns)
  Some really well modeled modern vehicles
  multiplayer has three factions- JTF, terrorists, and cartel (ish)
  
  Bad-
  AI not that great- 
 your team will not take the best cover, sometimes they don't kill the greater threat first
  Zoom and pan not what seen in screenshots- still at demo level
  graphics are not super- but run 
 smoothly
  hard to find- kinda got buried under the release of CoH, which I will also get, I'm just sick of 
 killing Nazis and driving Shermans.
  Kinda small selection of vehicles, but I guess the US doesn't use too many different types.
  
 
  Overall I gave it an 8.4- it's a great game, but they should not have released in the same week 
 as CoH and the other like it.
  
  Hope this helps- Sinai 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CommandoAgent
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 14, 2006 9:46 pm PT
Review:  -Very well done gameplay storyline over 20 singleplay missions in different areas around the world
 
  
  -A very well done game editor know has Workshop editor -Multiplayer is fun, stable and lag free 
 -Just make sure you have the least new video cards that can play JFT -Real Military Units
  
  -The News channel which provides background information works ok not to bad.
  
  -There 
 are Full Motion videos in the game very well done Full Motion videos and yes Full Motion videos 
 are back!
  
  -interesting storyline -Different Missions in the singleplay area
  
  -Nice World Settings
  
  -Live newscast from the combat zone
  
  -The Sound was ok on the 
 music area
  
  Thats all folks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zetabeta
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 13, 2006 7:44 am PT
Review:  - cooperative multiplay
  - 3 different faction in multiplay
  - 20 varied and interesting singleplay mission
  - good fighting system
  - beautiful effects
 
  - lots of different and real units
  - my favorites units: Harrier, Gepard, Sniper, Abrams, Mi-28 Hind, MLRS, etc.
  - varied weathers 
 during a mission
  - game editor
  - live enviroments (animals, waterfalls, etc.) , the sea is great
  - units with level up
  - 
 varied and interesting skills (my favorite is crew hero with maintenance and gunnery skill)
  - good menu
  - interesting story
  - 5.1 sounds
  - good enemy A. I.
  - lots of movies
  
 - media feature (media has influence in mission) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
