-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Joint Operations: Escalation
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/jointopsescalation/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fast-paced, chaotic combat with up to 150 players.
 New body armor keeps you alive longer.
 Interesting and big new levels to battle on.
 Improved graphics.
 New vehicles and new weapons to keep you busy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Perhaps a bit too fast-paced and chaotic at times.
 Tanks and attack helicopters are very vulnerable.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  1, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 7.8, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 536 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: NovaLogic
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     Nov 19, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This fast-paced, chaotic expansion pack adds powerful new vehicles and weapons, as well as excellent 
 new maps. 

  When it was released earlier this year, Joint Operations: Typhoon Rising became a notable entry 
 into the online military first-person shooter genre that's dominated by EA's Battlefield games. 
 Far larger than Battlefield 1942 or Battlefield Vietnam, Typhoon Rising let you battle with up 
 to 149 other players in a virtual, modern-day Indonesia torn apart by violence. It was a very fast-paced 
 and chaotic game that offered lots of cinematic moments and rewarded coordinated teams of players. 
 Joint Operations: Escalation picks up right where Typhoon Rising left off, and as its name suggests, 
 this expansion pack ups the ante by introducing powerful new vehicles, new maps, and new weapons. 

          Chaos reigns on the battlefield, especially with the action that's packed into Escalation. 
     

  Typhoon Rising centered on an uprising by Indonesian militant forces threatening to destabilize 
 the archipelago nation. Consequently, the United States and other Western nations dispatched their 
 special operations forces to combat the militants. The combat in Typhoon Rising often centered 
 on rapid movement by light infantry forces over large distances. In Escalation, the uprising escalates 
 into full-scale warfare, and the focus now is on heavier forces, such as tanks and attack helicopters. 
 While there are some new cooperative missions that you can carry out against a lackluster computer 
 opponent, the focus in Escalation is once again on the competitive online multiplayer modes. And 
 make no mistake: This remains an extremely fast-paced action game with an almost totally chaotic 
 sense of combat to it.  

  It appears that NovaLogic paid heed to some of the feedback from Typhoon Rising players, because 
 many of the maps in Escalation aren't as spread out and are better designed than those found in 
 the original game. There's much more of an emphasis on land-based maps, rather than the sprawling, 
 water-dominated maps of Typhoon Rising, primarily due to the fact that there are so many more vehicles 
 to play with here. No longer do you have to endlessly wait for a ride to carry you from one island 
 to another. Now you can jump on a vehicle or even try running for it, though the distances are 
 still considerable. Most maps easily stretch several kilometers in size. And these new areas look 
 better, thanks to the upgraded graphics engine. The maps have some memorable landmarks, such as 
 an airfield packed with transport planes and helicopters, or a rail yard full of railcars, or a 
 pipe-filled oil refinery. And yes, objects such as planes and fuel tanks explode if hit hard enough. 

  To help you get around these new levels, there are a wide range of new vehicles, including motorbikes, 
 M-1 and T-80 tanks, and Apache and Hokum attack helicopters. These complement the existing transport 
 helicopters and vehicles from the original game by adding hefty amounts of firepower. However, 
 for all the offensive punch these new vehicles add, they're offset by the fact that most vehicles 
 are death traps to be in during combat. Your life expectancy in the Apache and Hokum attack helicopters 
 is usually measured in seconds once you begin a strafing run, due to the prevalence of so many 
 Stinger missiles in the hands of infantrymen below. (It's even worse when you're sniped while sitting 
 in the cockpit of an Apache while waiting for its engine to spool up. For all the armor on the 
 real-world helicopters, you've got little protection from bullets in these virtual ones.) Meanwhile, 
 tanks can fall prey to other tanks or, more likely, to an infantryman carrying the powerful Javelin 
 antitank missile. Since tanks ideally require three crewmen to operate, it's possible to knock 
 out three players like this in one fell swoop. However, you rarely see tanks with a full complement 
 of crew, as most of the time it's simply easier for a single player to take a tank and jump between 
 the driver and gunner stations, thus turning it into a mobile artillery piece.  

  Typhoon Rising's strength and weakness was the sheer chaotic sense of combat. This remains unchanged 
 in Escalation. When all the players are working together, Escalation is nothing short of an exhilarating 
 game, full of the sort of over-the-top Hollywood moments that make you feel like you're standing 
 in the middle of a Jerry Bruckheimer movie. When vehicles explode in this game they go up in huge 
 fireballs. And as they're exploding, helicopters will streak overhead, bullets will crack around 
 you, and jeeps and motorcycles will zoom by. It's quite an intense and awe-inspiring experience 
 to behold. But on the downside, it's also easy to feel like an insignificant cog on the battlefield, 
 as it's hard to make a difference with so much going on around you.  

  It's also a bit frustrating when you just keep getting killed. It still seems too easy to die in 
 Escalation, especially since most weapons remain wickedly accurate over long distances. The good 
 news is that you can now select body armor as an equipment option, which lets you absorb more hits. 
 So long as you're not hit in the head, you can usually survive long enough to maybe get a few kills 
 in yourself. However, armor also makes you move slower. Plus, you're not allowed to carry special 
 weapons, such as Stinger antiaircraft and Javelin antitank missiles, so your utility on the battlefield 
 is reduced. And if you select the new parachute option, you can jump out of helicopters behind 
 enemy lines, but at the price of not being able to carry body armor or missiles. In other words, 
 there's not much for you to do other than snipe, and this sort of base-camping continues to be 
 a source of irritation at times.  

          The firepower that the M-1 tank and the other new vehicles have essentially turns them 
 into death traps in the end.     

  As mentioned, the graphics engine has received a few tweaks, but aside from the more detailed settings, 
 it remains relatively the same. Still, Joint Operations remains a great-looking game, especially 
 at high resolution. When it's in motion, there's a very strong sense that you're battling it out 
 in a believable world. The sound effects remain roughly the same, though, and there are some strangely 
 underwhelming noises, from the incredibly weak vehicle horns to the tinny sound of your assault 
 rifle. The physics still border on the edge of cartoonish, particularly for vehicles. A perfect 
 example is the new motorbike, which allows one or two players to zip across the landscape at high 
 speeds. It's almost impossible to wipe out on a motorbike, no matter how reckless your driving 
 is. You can zoom up hills and ridges and catch a ridiculous amount of air before you land, but 
 you won't get thrown off no matter how hard you hit the ground. You'll only die if you slam into 
 something solid.  

  Escalation is worth picking up if you're a Joint Operations fan, even if it's just for keeping 
 up with all the other players. There are already some popular new levels in the expansion that 
 will likely remain mainstays on NovaWorld, NovaLogic's online service, for quite some time. And 
 if you haven't played Typhoon Rising before, Escalation helps make the Joint Operations experience 
 an interesting and engaging one, though be prepared to face a noticeable learning curve and some 
 frustrations at first.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (21 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Perth2008
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 8, 2008 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Reviewed together with "JO: Typhoon Rising" (as I own "Combined Arms") .
  Well it is specifically a multiplayer online game ... I still however prefer single player games 
 so here's how I "work around" my preference:
  Select LAN and Host Game ... on "General Tab" make PSP Takeover "0" seconds, Replay "Yes" and Missions 
 "Cooperative". 
  
  What this means if you get to a spawn point you automatically can choose to respawn from it rather 
 than starting all the way back at base camp locations. You will note that the bad guys you have 
 terminated on earlier attempts stay dead as your new incarnation continues the mission. While this 
 "work around" can be frustrating (as you do not get AI allies ... you are very much alone) at least 
 you can explore the missions and beautifully rendered locales and enjoy a quasi single player experience.
 
  Others have compared it to Battlefield 2 and Battlefield Vietnam (both of which I own) but the 
 graphics and vehicle control mechanics are much nicer/smoother in Joint Ops. Essentially this game 
 is Delta Force Xtreme but without the dedicated single player missions.
  
  OVERALL: Similar to Delta Force Xtreme but without dedicated singleplayer missions. But if you 
 use the "work around" you can have a reasonably fun single player FPS, just be prepared to start 
 over many times to complete each mission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samcerulean
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 24, 2007 6:21 am PT
Review:  This game maybe dating now but still is one of modern and capturvating games I''ve played. I find 
 this game really addictive. You get sucked in to the gameplay because the whole game is really 
 based around your role as part of the team your in. This game is a fast paced and requires total 
 awareness of your surroundings and pushes to be more tactical and competive, which is great because 
 it really keeps you gripped into the game. The way in which the levels are structured really defines 
 the way in which the gameplay roles out. They have a perfect contrast between the elements in the 
 gameplay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frost6969
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 6, 2006 10:40 am PT
Review:  I have played the original Joints Ops game for a year now and think of my surprise when I saw this 
 pack in the local Gaming store. I purchased it and started playing. This packs is great. I offers 
 some new weapons, more tanks, choppers, gun turrets, and the new and fastest way to travel on land 
 dirt bikes! The dirt bikes have proven time and time again that they are a fast way to get back 
 into the game when you die in battle, and you will die in battle. They also introduced some other 
 interesting tid bits one can select, like body armor and para-shoots. The para-shoots come in handy 
 when you are flying over an enemy's base and you want to come in for the attack from above. 
  
  This pack features some new and fun ways to kill people online. I highly recommend this for 
 any Joint Ops Fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedSoxRebel
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 23, 2006 5:38 pm PT
Review:  The new maps, vehicles, and weapons make an already excellent game even better. For under $30 bucks 
 you can extend the playability of this game even farther. A lot of features were added to make 
 game play more enjoyable, such as the addition of body armor and the ability to reload weapons 
 for vehicles that don't have an infinite supply of ammo. The new vehicles are counterbalanced by 
 new weapons to ensure they don't overpower the game. The addition of parachutes now make it possible 
 to drop huge amounts of troops behind enemy lines without touching down in a hot LZ - how sweet 
 is that!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdhnightwolf
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 27, 2006 3:24 pm PT
Review:  I picked up this game hoping for the extra goodies it promised on the box. The apache, the motorbike, 
 the new weapons. For the most part, I got to use most of the new stuff. Then I was riddled by the 
 same ole same ole the original game had. Excessive key usage, uncooperative teammates, camping 
 in your base, and novalogic's lack of intelligence for letting people set up servers.
  
  I didn't much care for the original, and really can't say much better about this game. Like I said 
 for the other game, this game might be for some people, it's just not for me.
  
  I'll keep my Battlefield and UT games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AKS_74U
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 3, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Joint Operations Escalation is the expansion pack to Joint Operations Typhoon rising. In Joint 
 Operations escalation you will play as a Rebel or a Joint Operations soldier. In JO the multiplayer 
 matchs are insane. There can be 150 players per server. There is some disadvantages to this game 
 though. It doesent seem to different from Typhoon rising, there are only some new features like 
 dirt bikes, Tanks, parachutes, and some new guns. I really think that Nova should of included all 
 of these features in the first game. I dont really see a point in making a new game over some new 
 maps and some new equipment. But overall I recommend buying this game, its has some amazing multiplayer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom1327
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 28, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  As in most team-based shooters, in Joint Ops, you choose a character class to play, each with its 
 own distinct weapons and equipment. The rifleman gets the rocket launcher, which is useful against 
 vehicles, and he can also choose between a variety of assault rifles and grenades. The gunner has 
 access to the heavy machine guns that can lay down suppressive fire. The engineer gets some basic 
 rifle choices, but he can choose between the Stinger antiaircraft missile and the mortar, which 
 can rain down a devastating barrage. The sniper gets the sniper rifles and the target designator; 
 if a sniper designates a target for a mortar-equipped engineer, the mortar fire becomes devastatingly 
 accurate. And then there's the medic class, which can heal teammates and also revive fallen allies 
 on the battlefield. All the classes are designed to complement each other, and a well-balanced 
 team is preferable to a team made up primarily of snipers, for instance.
  
  You can also choose to forgo some of the secondary weapons and tweak your ammunition load in order 
 to lighten your encumbrance. Joint Operations takes into account the amount of weight in weapons 
 and ammunition that you carry, so a lightly encumbered player can run faster than a heavily encumbered 
 one. It's an interesting trade-off, because there are moments in the game when it's useful to be 
 able to run faster than everyone else -- to make a sprint for the helicopter, for example -- but there 
 are other moments when you'd give your left arm for a Stinger to shoot down a helicopter dogging 
 you, or to have a rocket-propelled grenade knock out the Stryker personnel carrier being used as 
 a floating gun platform near your base. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: War_Tourist
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 8, 2005 9:31 pm PT
Review:  I'm about as big a joint operations fan as you can get. 
  
  Joint Ops boils down for me, when its at its best, to a 150 person MP games at sub 100 ping free 
 fire zone. Amazing diversity in combat AND non-combat roles. Simple yet polished vehicle mechanics 
 that were easy to pickup and hard to perfect. Great time of day modeling. Ill always remember 
 waiting in the pitch black of night, defending a bunker, picking off the random assaulter through 
 my night vision goggles, praying for sunrise when I might be able to turn the tables. Wonderful 
 graphics, especially the frame effects of the bullets whizzing by your head and the exhaust vents 
 of choppers. The roll your own equipment customization, the lethality and range of the weapons, 
 the clever node capture algorithm. Joint Ops just cant be beat for massive contemporary warfare. 
 
  
  Well, the new expansion rolled in and beyond new maps, its primary contribution is tanks, full 
 out assault choppers, and motorcycles. Having recently witnessed the meltdown that mechs introduced 
 to Planetside, I was nervous about uber vehicles being shoveled into the model in some quickie 
 expansion pack. Joint ops 6 seat glass jaw chopper was just so perfect for that game, where now 
 US gunships would potentially obliterate the delicate long ranged ambush combat that embodied the 
 original product. 
  
  After playing it for a few hours, its biggest feature turns out to be the maps. Some favorites 
 include a monstrous hybrid of motorcycle racing and an off shore drilling platform; an ancient 
 maze of ruins with lots of stairs to permit walking on the walls (featuring an amazing "two worlds 
 co-existing" gaming experience) ; and rivers running parallel to dirt-bike dusted unpaved roads. 
 The tanks are lethal, but the introduction of this man portable top attacking rockets make them 
 pretty vulnerable. Joint ops had lots of choppers in the original and the already developed anti-air 
 arsenal can more than cope with the new attack helicopters. The dirtbike turns out to be the star 
 vehicle in my short experience. The motorcycles are super quick, get air on even the smallest of 
 inclines, and the passenger can fire his own equipped weapon. Combined with that buzzsaw, gas powered 
 engine whine and spectacular crashes, they're just a blast. 
  
  If you haven't played Joint Ops yet, now's as good a time as any. Just like Viet Cong stole so 
 much of Men of Valors thunder, I wonder if Joint Ops is already delivering that Battlefield 2 
 experience of tomorrow, today.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prophetik209
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 7, 2005 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Well I am not going to lie, the dirt bikes have to be my favorite addition in this expansion. However, 
 to just mention them would not do JO: E true justice. On top of being able to make spectacular mid-air 
 jumps on the bikes while your buddy on the back takes out the enemy with his weapon of choice... 
 you can also throw in several other vehicles, weapons and maps to what they have given us in JO: E. 
 A must buy if you liked the original Joint Operations: Typhoon Rising. 
  
  If that isn't enough for you then think about this... With JO: E you can play all the maps on NovaWorld. 
 ;)
  
  .: Proph209:. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrusherOfThings
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 24, 2005 10:13 am PT
Review:  Well we have a great expansion to a great FPS military combat game, Joint Operations. Escalation 
 adds some new elements but doesn't stray far from the main formula which made the original game 
 so fun to play. 
  
  To those unfamiliar with the game, Joint Ops is a tactical military FPS where you fight for control 
 of waypoints on the map (well, at least in Advance And Secure mode, which is what most everybody 
 plays. Basically like the Conquest mode in BF2) . You can choose your class and weaponry. Me personally, 
 I love being a sniper. That is my preferred class. Nothing like sneaking up on the enemy and taking 
 out a few with headshots before you're discovered and taken out yourself lol. The game takes place 
 in Indonesia where you play as either a team on the Joint Ops side (basically the United Nations) , 
 or play on the "Rebels" side (basically terrorists) .
  
  The vehicles are straightforward and easy to control. And there is plenty of em, everything from 
 helicopters to boats, and even motorcycles.
  
  I've had a blast playing this game, and I've been playing it for a long time now. Battlefield 2 
 is a good game, but I keep coming back to Joint Ops. There's just something about it that makes 
 it better in my eyes.
  
  The sound is good, but some of the guns don't quite pack the "oomph" that they should, but they 
 are still good. As for visuals, it's not on the cutting edge of technology like BF2, but it is 
 still very well done.
  
  Perhaps one of the best features is that the game supports a max of 150 players, although you will 
 find mostly 64 player servers online (which is still PLENTY of players) . Part of this I suspect 
 is due to the server rental fees from Novalogic. They are, shall we say, a bit "pricey". If you 
 want to host a dedicated 150 player server you're looking at 500+ bucks a month, which is a bit 
 ridiculous IMHO. But oh well, you'll have no trouble finding servers to play on, and there's typically 
 at least a COUPLE 150 player games going on. Though they are rarely ever close to capping out.
 
  
  Bottom line; this is one of the better FPS games that I own. I love everything about it. I've had 
 some pretty intense and chaotic battles playing this game. Sometimes there is just plain insane 
 action. Nothing like jumping out of a helicopter in mid air right before it gets hit by a rocket 
 and landing in the water below to swim to shore. That's just one scenario of awesome gameplay I've 
 experienced playing this game.
  
  Highly recommended if you are into tactical military FPS games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogoplexiorayo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 4, 2005 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Escalation is a fun game but the orginal was better and more fun.
  
  Whats new in joint ops escalation: 
  You can drive tanks, motorcycles and new choppers. There 
 are plenty of new wapons including the deadly Javelin. You can now play permanent death matches. 
 
  
  First off the single player coop missions are harder and better here i really liked it. More advanced 
 ai and stuff. There are also plenty of new houses and stuff like that in joe you can see waterfalls 
 dragon heads and much more.
  
  The multiplayer is always the big thing driving a tank is very fun but in some maps there can be 
 too many off them and you only have one javelin so it can get frustrating at times. The new bikes 
 are fast and fun too drive even though the bike can act a little crazy at times. The new choppers 
 is great blowing people up from the sky is very entertaining. 
  
  Graphics looks pretty much the same maybe a little better. The new weapons looks fine except the 
 G3. There not much too say about the graphics everything of the new stuff looks cool. 
  
  The sound is great: On this game there are more sounds then the original. Cant really give the 
 sounds a name. The sound on the new weapons sound pretty ok. The ones from the original pretty 
 much sound fake and not so much power. 
  
  This game has many backsides. Sometimes in the coop missions rebels from 1000 of meters can shoot 
 you and thats really insane. The sound of the weapons are still not fixed (the ones from the orginal) 
 I can say all of the new stuff in this game funtion pretty well. But nova has thinked about fixes 
 the few problems there were with jo and it gives a little bit too be desired.
  
  This game is a good game its not so exspensive youll actually get almost a half year of gameplay 
 if your a fan of these games. But people who dont like a game with many mistakes better keep out. 
 But its a hell of a game.
  
  I had fun with this game even when i got shot at by 10 tanks i still loved the game. This game 
 needs more players why dont give it a try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swe-trojan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2005 5:57 am PT
Review:  If you're really in to military online games you have to buy this awesome game and play it online.
 
  The best part about this game is the cooperative mode which lets you play with other gamers which 
 is alot of fun.
  
  And the user created maps that are out there is superb also which has alot of different cooperative 
 missions.
  
  The thing I really like about this game is that you can't just run around and shot everything up 
 cause the enemie will track you down and kill you.
  So you have to use stealth and rellie on your teammates before you can finish the missions.
  
 
  I only have one opinion and that is that Novalogic ROXX when it comes to creating great military 
 games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sethsaber
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 16, 2005 3:18 am PT
Review:  There is no doubt that Joint Ops, yet another realistic war themed multiplayer DPS, is a beautiful 
 beast featuring some great character models, huge and detailed maps and epic combat, but it made 
 nary a blip on the radar. Why is this? Unfortunately for Novalogic the game featured massive server 
 problems at release - not the best thing when your game is all about the online experience. Thankfully 
 many of the server issues have been rectified in time for the release of the first expansion pack. 
 
  
  The choice of content for the expansion is a little strange but manages to add to the overall struture 
 of the game instead of nerfing it. Aside from a new slew of maps, Escalation adds two new heavy 
 vehicles, the heavy Tank, and Assault Helicopter but wisely stops them from becoming side destroying 
 super weapons by putting the emphasis on teamwork. Both vehicles require a separte drive/pilot 
 and gunner making the soloing a thing of the past. Unfortunately the expansion also adds motorcycles 
 to the mix with less successful results. The two wheeled vehicles spawn regularly around the map 
 and are the fastest vehicle in the game. These vehicles essentially do away with the teamwork necessitated 
 by the other vehicles, as it is far easier and faster to simply jump on a bike and zip across the 
 map solo. Oh well, Joint Ops is still one of the most underrated online shooters out there, and 
 well worth a go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormmaster
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 11, 2005 1:08 am PT
Review:  I am Reviewing JOE and JOTR. Joint Operations Escalation, and Joint Operations: Typhoon Rising 
 both have the same weakness, but somtimes the weakness it has is all the strength it's got. The 
 expansion to the highly acclaimed modern war title adds alot of stuff the original did not have. 
 The battles in good rooms are intense (normally) But the gigantic maps take away rom the games 
 epic battles. man times you will enter a war zone, find cover, but only going there to relize that 
 the so called save haven you entered was only a target for a sniper or large vehicle. if you want 
 the maximum realisim ( HA HA you know who im laughing at HA HAAAAAAAAAA!!!) experiance take the 
 deafault lighting in night missions, but if youre like me turn the brightness up because even with 
 night vision!! Day light missions in Kutu Arms market are the best in my opinon. other than tht 
 the weopons have alot of reliesim (HAA!!) to them, one particulerly (HAA!!) interesting weapon is 
 the G3 assault rifle that uses M60 sniper rounds. If your looking for a military action game to 
 hold you off until BF2 JOE, and JOTR are the ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strycon
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 18, 2005 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Allright I am doing my first review.
  This review may be a little lait but I hope it doesn't matter that much.
  this game I believe 
 is a little underrated if I look at the scores it got on the net but in my oppinion it is a great 
 and really addictive game that blows battlefield away this game will be the best in It's gerne 
 until battlefield 2 will be released.
  First of all the gameplay is very balanced and the new vihicles made the "fun factor" I little 
 higher. It is really cool to be a part in a huge battle with 150 players but personally prefer 
 the smaller tdm and tkoth maps where you really need to work in a team.
  In the original game u would die very fast and if you would be a gunner it would die very very 
 fast if you would do the "run and gun" style, now they have the protection fast that makes this 
 a little easier and this way you can get atleast 5 kills with the "run and gun" style in a place 
 where it is crawling with badguys. 
  
  But the game does have a few cons.
  It really needs high system specs, I can run half life 2 on the highest but when I do that with 
 this game the frame rate will drow so low that the game becomes unplayable.
  Also some maps have multiple bugs and the kniving is very lame.
  But the worst of all is the 
 sound because it sounds really fake.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whatsinaname
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 3, 2005 9:43 pm PT
Review:  This rocks if you cordinate your teamplay. I play in a squad and with Teamspeak added to this, 
 it's awsome. If you are just surfing the public servers as a single player, it's hard to find one 
 that's realy worthwhile Most of the time people are running around by themselves. You'll see people 
 rushing of in a tank by themselves instead of using it's full potential and drive it with 2 or 
 3 people in it. 
  If you like to play as a lone ranger, running around bunnyhopping, this is not your game. Of course, 
 you'll find some servers that will suit your style, but this game is developed for something different. If 
 you like teamplay or are part of a squad, this is your game. It's fast action, pretty realistic 
 and great fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Federation10
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2004 1:39 pm PT
Review:  This game can not be put down by the fans of the original joint ops. if you haven't played go get 
 joint operations typhoon rising i'd advise you to go pick it up. then if you like everything then 
 buy joint operations escalation. it has new weapons as well as some new vehicles. there are over 
 i'd say about 30 new levels and includes some of the originals. the graphics and controls are basicaly 
 the same with a few improvements. all in all joint operations escalations is a stand out game and 
 if your a fan then go pick it up from your retail store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedeafone
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 2, 2004 1:59 am PT
Review:  I came, I saw, I blew the snot out of in a tank. That pretty much sums up what Joint Operations: 
 Escalation, this yaers expansion pack to Joint Operations: Typhoon Rising, is all about. 
  
  If your a new novalogic player, you are asked (well, pretty much forced) to set up a novaworld 
 account. This keeps cheaters and people who burn games from doing it to novalogic games. The downside 
 is that even if your internet is fine, novaworld may be down and nonplayable. After going through 
 the process, you come to the online interface. This has a main page, a character page, a player 
 page, a games page, and a player search page. The first four are nothing new. Whats so great, and 
 makes this great for clans, is the last one. If, say, I want to find fellow NATF members, all I 
 hit is is the n, a, t, and f keys and boom! i get every player with natf as the first 4 letters 
 in his name in a nice little list. Easy as that.
  
  When you first get into the gameplay (about 2 minutes in) , it might seem a little dull. You chose 
 your weapon (more on that later) , and either hoof it or get a ride to the front. Then it hits you. 
 No, im not talking about the greatness of the game. Im talking about that RPG in that second story 
 window. Your jeep goes boom, and you wake up. You stare at your screen, and blink. A medic comes 
 by and revives you. You jump up, and turn to say thank you. Hes not there. Ops, there he is, flying 
 in the air from a mortar shell. Then the greatness of the game hits and you don't even realize 
 it. The chaos is beautiful. See infantry slugging it out on your left, tanks shooting at each other 
 as a javlin missle ruins a tankers day to your right, and above a stinger chases a blackhawk to 
 its inevitable doom. Near you a gunner puts down a base of fire as assult troops try and assult 
 a bunker. Then a sniper rifle cracks and your down with a headshot. And all this in about the first 
 3 minutes of the game. You immidiatly spawn at your main base and gear up again. This is what I 
 wish every game could be like. 
  
  Now, on to the weapons. The Joint Ops team gets the usual assortment of today weapons, including 
 2 versions of the MP5s, the non-cruddy M16A2, and the caribine version of the M16A2, the M4. New 
 to the expansion is the G3, a  assult rifle, and the 
 MK23 pistol, which is totally usless, unless your a sniper. The Rebels, like usual, are stuck with 
 the AK line of weapons, and, new to the expansion pack, the FN-FL assult rifle, and the 17 round 
 glock pistol, which is a lot more useful than the MK23, which still isn't saying much. The gunners 
 and snipers for both sides are stuck with thier old main wepaons for now, which was a dissapointment. 
 Also new to the weapons is the ability to chose rounds, but more on that later.
  
  Also new is the equipment each side can use. For those of you new to the JO: TR and JO: E universe, 
 the equipment doesnt change form side to side. Must have the same weapons contractor. This is where 
 the second biggest change is. You can now chose body armor, which will help you live longer. This 
 is where the game runs into its first pothole. There is no indicator to someone that the person 
 in thier crosshairs is wearing body armor. This is where the new rounds come into play, and badly. 
 There are 3 types of rounds, Soft Point, which will kill non body armored infantry very quickly, 
 but will do little damage to armored targets. The second is Full Metal Jacket, which is the regular 
 round, and will do equal damage to all targets, with damage against body armor decreaing as range 
 decreases. The third is Armor Piercing, which is as the name suggests (There is a 4th, 00Buck, 
 but thats only for the shotgun and not changeable) . Now, I have a habbit of loading one type of 
 round into my assult rifle, and its counterpart into my sidearm. This would work great, IF i could 
 tell who was wearing what. Scince I can't, the system falls flat on its arse. Also new is the parachute, 
 which allows you to be easily killed while slowly floating down. Another idea that shouldve been 
 tweaked. The best of the new equipment is the anti tank mines and javilin anti-tank boom stick. 
 The AT mines can make some great ambushes, and the jav is a  
 rocket launcher. 
  
  Now we come to the new vehicles. There are 7 new vehcicles, not the 11 first to be promised. Instead 
 of giving and overview about how I like/dislike the vehicles already in the game, im gonna state 
 the vehciles that didnt make it. The first is the Avenger and its rebel counterpart,. The avenger 
 is an anti-aircraft vehicle that has stingers and 2 50 cals. This was in the beta, but somehow 
 didnt make it to the retail version. This makes the attack chopper on small-ish games the best 
 vehicle in the game. Also missing or very hard to find are the fuel trucks and the three wheel 
 taxi cart. I will now take a minute to mourn thier passing.
  
  The maps arent all that inspiring either. Some of them (most noticibly the airport and spaceport 
 ones) have framerates around 4, no matter the graphics setting and card. Some, like the chem lab 
 one, get extremely repetitive. The Kuta Arms Market level, by far one of the best levels in the 
 game, has only one counter part here, and its rarely played. Overall, its seems as if novalogic, 
 now jibbingly called no-logic (more on that in the next paragraph) didnt put much time or effort 
 into the maps. 
  
  Also, the covented mod software for JO has been shot down and ruthlessly stabbed. This is where 
 the nickname 'no-logic' has come from. This also limits the games score in my book. 
  
  Overall, I can't really sum all my feelings up in one reader review. I could go into one of many 
 things, such as the commanders screen, stats, clans, and thousands of tangets in just those three. 
 But its getting late, so ill end the review here and answer the questions ive been building up 
 to the whole review. Is this expansion pack good? Yes. Is it really nessicary? Well, I hate to 
 say it, but no, not really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suade907
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 27, 2004 7:59 pm PT
Review:  With the addition of Tanks and other vehicles and some very well thought out maps Escalation has 
 raised the bar. This is one awesome game. If you like BFV then you must give this game a try. It's 
 true the vehicle dynamics are a little harsh but once you get into the game you'll realize that 
 the Massive maps and style of play are incredible and that this is a much more of a FPS based game 
 compared to BFV. It excells very well as a FPS. Must buy for fans of BFV style games. 150 player 
 servers, nuff said.
  
  Oh I have to have at least 100 words here so a few sweet things about the game.
  Teamwork is 
 a necessity to win, It's fun to go off on your own but without a cohesive team working together 
 you''ll get smoked by a clan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: no_pants_4_u
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 19, 2004 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Being a long time gamer of the original Joint Ops: Typhoon Rising, I'll say now that the expansion, 
 Escalation, blew me away! As with the original, you'll need a fairly fast connection (56kers beware!) 
 and a pretty new video card (around 128 mb and up) . For those of you have both of these, you are 
 indeed in for a treat! The graphics are top notch when cranked up (the network code is excellent 
 and has been revamped, so even relatvely old PC's should run it well) , the maps are balanced extremely 
 well... and, as for the weapons and new vehicles... read on!
  
  They're great! Not only are the new weapons/accessories cool (the new parachute, the javelin anti-tank 
 missile, body armor, anti-tank mines, etc.) , but they add just that much more to the experience 
 to make it even more deep and rewarding. First time players will find that they will learn fast, 
 as the learning curve and overall gameplay is so well balanced that you can be a newbie and vet 
 alike and still jump in with great ease. I also noticed a dramatic increase in how spectacular 
 all of the explosions and sounds come together: This expansion pack actually makes the game feel 
 more like a real battefield more than ever-easier access to vehicles, better countermeasures, and 
 a more cohesive feel in terms of teamwork and manuevering-no more hoofing it half a mile just to 
 get to the action!
  
  Vehicles: Simply amazing. Introducing tanks, new heli's, and dirt bikes.... there's just no rush 
 like hitting a hill and going 50 ft through the air in a dirt bike with the guy behind you lighting 
 up the enemy bunker with a spray of bullets! There's also not a better feeling than being a pilot 
 or a gunner and working together to lay fire and waste to the enemy down below-just spectacular!
 
  
  As for replay value, look no further: Not only are there a ton of new maps, but you can also play 
 the old original Typhoon Rising maps too (you just need to find the right server or set up your 
 own) with the new 'Escalation' add ons! Take it from me: You'll be dodging work and girlfriends/boyfrieds 
 like they were the plague once you get your hands on this puppy!
  
  I'll see you guys on the battlefield!
  -Underwear X 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garo420
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2004 5:29 pm PT
Review:  The new maps, vehicles, and weapons make an already excellent game even better. For under $30 bucks 
 you can extend the playability of this game even farther. A lot of features were added to make 
 game play more enjoyable, such as the addition of body armor and the ability to reload weapons 
 for vehicles that don't have an infinite supply of ammo. The new vehicles are counterbalanced by 
 new weapons to ensure they don't overpower the game. The addition of parachutes now make it possible 
 to drop huge amounts of troops behind enemy lines without touching down in a hot LZ - how sweet 
 is that!
  
  In all, this is one of the best expansion packs I've ever experienced. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
