-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Journey to the Center of the Earth
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/journeytothecenteroftheearth/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  5, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.1
Critic Score: 6.6, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 131 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Viva Media
Developer: Micro Application
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Oct 27, 2003
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Journey to the Center of the Earth is marred by bugs, design problems, low production values, and 
 general sloppiness that usually overshadow its genuine charms. 

  Journey to the Center of the Earth has its heart in the right place. It's an unpretentious point-and-click 
 adventure game where you explore an exotic world, collecting countless inventory items and solving 
 puzzles with them. From that perspective, fans of old-school adventures should warm up to the game 
 immediately. Then again, the game is marred by bugs, design problems, low production values, and 
 general sloppiness that usually overshadow its genuine charms.  

          Ariane finds herself in a strange underground world.     

  Journey to the Center of 
 the Earth is inspired by Jules Verne's classic novel of the same name, but if you haven't read 
 it, don't worry: The game's story stands on its own (even if it's very wobbly on its narrative 
 feet) . Taking part in a popular adventure game trend, Journey puts you in the shoes of a young 
 female character, in this case a photojournalist named Ariane. Ariane is poorly fleshed out, though, 
 and certainly won't make you forget better-written adventure game heroines like Nico Collard, April 
 Ryan, or Kate Walker.  

  Ariane finds herself in dire straits from the get-go. A helicopter sets her down by the edge of 
 a volcano in Iceland so she can take pictures. Soon after, a rockslide destroys the chopper, and 
 when Ariane ventures into a nearby cave, she tumbles down into darkness.  

  She finds herself standing on a sunny beach, of all places. Talking to a nearby stranger reveals 
 that Ariane is now in a secret underground world. It's your job to help her back to the surface 
 while exploring the mysteries of this secret world. Along the way, you'll find a forest of giant 
 mushrooms, tamed dinosaurs, a village of friendly giants, and a quasi-Victorian city of the future 
 that melds 1800s technology with contemporary ideas like surveillance cameras and speedy cable 
 cars. Thanks to a laptop computer, Ariane gets occasional e-mails updating her on the progress 
 of her rescue party and other news from topside. In the strange underground world, she becomes 
 enmeshed in a plot of manipulation and deceit with two possible endings: At a vital juncture, choosing 
 one path will cause the game to end rather abruptly, but the other choice opens up another hour 
 or two of gameplay.  

  Despite all the potential of the story and setting, they have about as much sophistication as the 
 '70s kids' TV show  Land of the Lost . In fact, it can be hard to tell if the game was intentionally 
 geared toward kids or is just very poorly written. Ariane mostly seems to take her fall into another 
 world inside the Earth in casual stride, and the inhabitants of this lost world usually don't blink 
 an eye at the intruder in their realm. Most of the characters are paper thin, so don't expect the 
 sort of memorable, even touching, characters you find in smarter adventures like Syberia or Broken 
 Sword: The Sleeping Dragon. The setting is a mishmash of ideas, and the dialogue is juvenile and 
 stilted -- imagine a bad children's cartoon -- to the point of eliciting laughter during the serious 
 bits.  

          Ariane visits a city that blends the past and the future.     

  Still, if you can shut off your critical faculties and just go along for the ride, Journey's world 
 can be fun to explore. The game taps into the perpetually enticing idea of some fantastic realm 
 of adventure lurking just behind the humdrum facade of everyday life. In Journey, you'll fly in 
 a hot-air balloon, travel in a submarine, and see shamans levitate, pterodactyls soar overhead, 
 and giants herd mastodons.  

  Of course, Journey isn't just about exploring; it's also about puzzles -- lots of them. Here's where 
 Journey's faults are harder to forgive; to some extent you can tune out the story, but not the 
 puzzles. Most of the puzzles are based on finding or combining the right inventory items. Most 
 of your searching will take the form of "FedEx" quests on behalf of the characters you meet, people 
 who are apparently too lazy or inept to walk down the street and grab the items themselves. Unfortunately, 
 it's all too easy to overlook items during your searches because they're tiny, or they're dark 
 and placed against a dark background, or because the cursor doesn't let you know you're over a 
 hotspot unless you position it perfectly over a tiny area. Sometimes you can't pick up an item 
 when you first notice it; later, after tripping a hidden trigger in the game's logic, you can mysteriously 
 pick it up. That can involve laborious backtracking across many screens to get to it. You'll often 
 receive inventory items from characters, but usually your only notification is a tiny, easily missed 
 sound effect.     

   

  Good games let you know what you're supposed to do (or at least what it's possible to do) and why. 
 They also give you some emotional motivation to pursue a goal. That's not often the case with Journey, 
 where puzzles can fail to give you enough feedback or hints about what you're supposed to do or 
 why. Often the only motivation they give you to solve them is simply that you have to in order 
 to proceed. Since the characters are so forgettable, it's hard to identify with their problems 
 that require you to look over hill and dale for some little item so they can fix a machine. The 
 puzzles can also be convoluted, counterintuitive, or abstruse. In one scene, for example, a ferocious 
 dinosaur blocks your path. What are you going to do? Naturally, you'll deduce that you need to 
 "pull a MacGyver" and create your own fireworks out of a bunch of inventory items to startle the 
 dinosaur away. And that's actually one of the more obvious puzzles.  

          The non-inventory puzzles are well varied and interesting.     

  Despite such big problems, 
 it can still be amusing to amass a heaping pile of inventory items and figure out what you can 
 do with all your goodies. Outside of the inventory puzzles, the other challenges are nicely varied, 
 too, so you don't get the feeling you're solving the same puzzle in different guises over and over. 
 In fact, some of the non-inventory puzzles can be good fun. They'll challenge your skills of logic, 
 pattern recognition, and the like without, for the most part, being too tough. If you're just in 
 it for the puzzles, Journey isn't all bad.  

  Making your way around the gameworld to solve the puzzles can be a real chore, though. As you move 
 your cursor across the screen, it shows a pair of footprints when you can move Ariane offscreen 
 to a new area. Unfortunately, you often have to position the cursor over a minute area for it to 
 activate. In many instances, the cursor never changes at all, despite nearby areas you can explore, 
 so you'll need to move Ariane all over the current screen to see where else she can go. The connections 
 between areas are set up so poorly that it can be hard to navigate inside even a tiny tent or a 
 small building: You click one direction and end up going to an area you didn't intend or expect. 
 Moving between areas often causes the two adjacent screens to flash back and forth rapidly during 
 the transition, too.  

  Bugs cause more movement hassles: Sometimes Ariane will just keep circling in place for no reason. 
 Once, we tried moving to a new area and ended up right back where we started. Movement isn't the 
 only interface problem: To examine an item, you usually have to click on it, then click "read" 
 or "analyze" above the item in your inventory bar, then open Ariane's laptop computer, then select 
 the item from a list, and then view it on her computer screen. If that's not arbitrary and redundant 
 and clumsy, what is? The game is also marred by sloppiness, like when you can ask a character about 
 an object before you've even seen it, get greeted twice by a character as if for the first time, 
 or walk through a closed force field before you've properly opened it.  

          Graphics often range from pretty to pretty ugly in the same scene.     

  Problems sadly 
 don't end there. Small bugs mar the graphics and audio. The voice-overs range from barely acceptable 
 to laugh-out-loud bad, sounding like they were done by random people off the street instead of 
 professional actors. Some of the actors who play the giants distort their voices to make them sound 
 deeper, so these actors end up sounding like bad Fat Albert impersonators. The sound effects are 
 sparse and cheap sounding, and some are too obviously stock. All isn't lost, though, since Journey 
 boasts a buoyant, romantic score for piano and strings that really suits the spirit of adventure. 
 The gameworld itself is pretty: The 2D backdrops are finely detailed and vibrantly colored, however 
 nonsensical some scenes might be. It's just a shame that the foreground animations are slow and 
 stiff and the characters bland or ugly.  

  Journey to the Center of the Earth is one of those "if only" games: If only the writing were smarter, 
 if only the acting were convincing, if only the design problems and bugs had been fixed, and so 
 on. Still, it's nice to see well-varied puzzles, even if they can be too convoluted or confusing 
 at times. The basic premise of the game is certainly enticing, too; it's just a shame the developers 
 didn't do more with it. There are some nice moments in Journey to the Center of the Earth, but 
 you'll have to sit through a lot of bad moments to get to them.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: xela8
Rating: 2.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 12:08 pm PT
Review:  This is not the game people would get interested in. I thought it will be a great and exiting game 
 first off, but as soon in the middle of the game, it became boring, broken doors and bad sound 
 effects and graphic designs. I thought the 2D will be as a great 3D game, but no, they lied on 
 the cover. The 2D is a bad graphic. They should have made it more 2D than that like all the other 
 videogames and make it more like a fun 3D to look at, but they lied and they we're wrong. This 
 is a bad game. And why is it rated E? The puzzles are TOO hard for a 6 year old. Maybe even a 8 
 year old. I don't get ESRB. They've should have rated it T I'm not for sure if a ten year old would 
 get it either. This game is probably as hard as Jeopardy or Millionaire inside the buildings. They 
 should have never made it a kids game. I don't get them. And the Walkthroughs don't make any sense. 
 They have some not understanding words and some of them get you stuck and through out the middle 
 of the game, sometimes it just clicks off and I don't get it. I have a 7 year old sister who is 
 not interested in this game either. She was stuck on the first level when your in Iceland and she 
 stopped playing it and saidSister Alex, this game is too hard I want to play a different game." 
 See I told her it's too hard for her. Don't spend your money on this crazy garbage stuff. You will 
 never get your money back and you'll get mad for buying a stupid game witch had cost you money 
 on. I got this game for last Christmas so I'm glad I didn't had to pay for it, but this Christmas, 
 I'm giving it back to Santa to put up back at the toy machine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kos-mos88
Rating: 3.3
Date: Jul 24, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  At first I thought that this game would be kind of cool and exciting, but when i started playing 
 it, the game was quite the opposite. This game looked like it was rushed through development. There 
 are glitches everywhere you go. The direction arrow does not work as it should. If you tried to 
 click somewhere it won't go. Also I found the story kind of flat. It sounded like someone was just 
 reading it off the script. There was no emotion to it. There is no action and the action that is 
 in the game is quite boring. They did not nothing to make it interesting. The puzzles i also had 
 difficulty. The clues they gave you to solve some of them did not make sense to me. If any one 
 is ever thinking of getting this game be warned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuuchan43
Rating: 1
Date: May 6, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  The most horrible videogame I've ever encountered has to be this game. 
  
  I've recently become an avid gamer and I won't pretend to know everything, but I know this game 
 SUCKS.
  
  Usually I break games up into the good and bad... but there is no good.
  
  BAD: 
  -graphics suck
  -story is lacking any depth
  -the main heroine is not interesting 
 at all
  -the big puzzles are almost impossible to solve (you need to know waht hearing and seeing whould 
 SOUND like... ok sure)
  -you could care less whether or not you beat the game
  - alot of running around like an errand boy
  -poor controls -- she gets stuck alot and you need 
 some talented maneuvering to get her out of certain scenes
  -lots and lots and lots of glitches
  -will make your computer crash a couple of time
  -the 
 loading and save screen are the best part of the game
  -gives the adventure game a poor reputation
  -voice overs sound like they are seedy homeless 
 people looking for a buck..
  
  .. need I say more?
  
  fuuchan43
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terri824
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jan 3, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  I suppose this could have been a good game if it weren't for all of the problems. I had finally 
 had enough last night an uninstalled it. In a way I hate that I did that because I do like to finish 
 what I start but I could not take the stress any longer.
  No doubt I will have to replace my mouse soon since you do a lot of clicking trying to move or 
 find something. There are too many bugs/glitches to mention with this game. 
  I got this game for a clearance price of $4.99 and believe me that was too much to pay for it.
 
  Save your money, don't buy this one! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
