-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Judge Dredd: Dredd VS Death
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/judgedredddreddversusdeath/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 17, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.6
Critic Score: 6.5, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 6.5, 149 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Evolved Games
Developer: Rebellion
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Mar 3, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Released in Europe in 2003, the game hasn't gotten a whole lot better with age. It's a short, simplistic 
 shooter that's not worth even its budget price. 

  Though it was released in Europe way back in 2003, Judge Dredd: Dredd vs. Death is just now arriving 
 in the US. It's not clear what took so long, though every year that goes by puts more distance 
 between Sylvester Stallone's  Judge Dredd  movie and anyone who might remember it, which can only 
 be good for any product based on the Judge Dredd license. Whatever the reason, the game hasn't 
 gotten a whole lot better with age. It's a short, simplistic shooter that's not worth even its 
 budget price.  

           The visuals are generally simple, but some of the character designs are pretty cool.  
     

  The game's based on the popular, long-running 2000AD series of comic books rather than the aforementioned 
 unpopular Sylvester Stallone movie. You, of course, play Dredd, a cop of the future who acts as 
 judge, jury, and executioner in a fascistic consumer dystopia called Mega-City One. Though the 
 game's price is budget, it doesn't skimp on the heavy-handed social satire. On your quest to recapture 
 four escaped "Dark Judges" -- Fear, Fire, Mortis, and Death -- expect to be hectored by lots of absurdly 
 unsubtle and poorly acted jabs at various antiestablishment buzzwords, like "consumerism."  

  You can also expect to be badgered by a lot of vampires and zombies. Though there are some token 
 human lawbreakers to execute here and there, for the most part, the game's 11 short levels pit 
 you against swarms of the undead. Even for a game released in 2003, Dredd vs. Death's single-player 
 campaign is a pretty bare-bones affair. There's virtually no variety in the gameplay from level 
 to level, the combat isn't very intense, and the enemies aren't interesting or clever enough to 
 support an entire game. You'll occasionally have to escort a civilian somewhere, but for the most 
 part, the game comprises straightforward and not particularly well-executed combat. The four boss 
 battles are especially tepid.  

  In what might have been an attempt to spice up gameplay, you can arrest human lawbreakers rather 
 than kill them. Sometimes they'll surrender on sight, and sometimes you'll have to wing them first. 
 The problem is, unless it's a very occasional part of a mission goal, or unless you're deeply into 
 role-playing Judge Dredd, there's basically no reason to do this. Arrests do boost your "law meter," 
 which is a stat bar that tracks your success as a judge. Unfortunately, the law meter isn't tightly 
 integrated into gameplay. So unless you willfully ignore instructions, it rarely dips below maximum 
 and can be safely ignored.  

  The entire single-player campaign can be completed in about five hours. The PC version, which lets 
 you save anywhere, goes by even faster than the console versions, which feature only checkpoint 
 saves. Two people can tackle the single-player campaign cooperatively (split-screen on the consoles 
 or over a LAN or the Internet on the PC) . This is a nice feature that would have been a lot more 
 exciting in a better game.  

  As you complete the single-player levels, 11 "arcade" levels become unlocked. These feature small, 
 goal-oriented tasks that usually require you to either kill a certain number of enemies as fast 
 as possible or survive an onslaught for a given amount of time. In short bursts, these levels are 
 actually more intense and entertaining than the campaign. However, like the campaign, they won't 
 hold your attention for very long. These would have been perfect for the two-player cooperative 
 mode, but, unfortunately, that option isn't offered.  

  The game looks a little more dated than it actually is. The environments are colorful but geometrically 
 simple. They're not attractively stylized simple, either; they're just simple, with lots of big, 
 flat surfaces. The upside to this is that all four versions look more or less identical, though 
 the PC version, as usual, runs in higher resolution. The game also features what appears to be 
 some of man's first experiments in rag-doll physics. Characters crumple and tumble but are completely 
 out of sync with the force applied to them. Shoot an oncoming zombie in the foot and it's just 
 as likely to be blown 20 feet in the air and forward as any other direction.  

          Arresting a perp.     

  Success in both the campaign and arcade modes unlocks a bunch 
 of extra character models that can be used in multiplayer. The consoles support four people split-screen, 
 while the PC version can handle up to 16 people over a LAN or the Internet. All versions let you 
 compete against up to 12 relatively competent computer-controlled bots, but only in the deathmatch 
 modes and only against a single human player. The PC version unfortunately doesn't include a built-in 
 server browser for anything but LAN games, so you'll have to hop out of the game and use an external 
 browser to find servers. And even though the PC version supports more players, the majority of 
 the maps are designed for two to four people. For instance, each of the three capture the flag 
 (called "umpty raid") maps is incredibly small. It's a stretch even fitting four players comfortably 
 on them. The other game types include standard deathmatch, team deathmatch, versions of both of 
 these with limited lives, capture-and-hold, protect the VIP, and a couple of oddball taglike games. 
 There's a pretty thorough variety of different gameplay types, and they run smoothly. If you're 
 into the Judge Dredd atmosphere and don't mind the simple visuals, it's the best part of the whole 
 package.  

  As far as budget games go, Judge Dredd is standard fare. It's not embarrassingly bad, but you're 
 better off waiting for your next paycheck (or maybe getting a payday loan) and then sinking the 
 extra cash into any of the much better full-priced shooters readily available on all four platforms. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: grantcorp
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 2, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Judge Dredd is a simplistic FPS more or less on rails, taking you through various locales in your 
 hunt for criminal elements. Each level sees you facing a specific opponent or faction, and sometimes 
 allows for secondary objectives such as apprehending a street gang or coming to the aid of citizens 
 in distress. The warped concept of law means that you are more or less free to choose if you want 
 to arrest the perpetrators or take the simple approach and gun them down on the spot.
  
  The best thing about Judge Dredd is the depiction of MegaCity One, and a lot of effort has gone 
 into creating an imposing vertical city filled with over the top looking skyscrapers and traffic 
 buzzing through the sky. Everytime the game ventured outdoors I just found myself taking a break 
 and sucking it all in. There was another game of similar style called Project Eden which aimed 
 for the same type of vertical aesthetics, but Judge Dredd pulls it off so much better. The soundtrack 
 also suits the game very well.
  
  Gameplaywise it really does suffer from being too short. The first levels are also the most interesting 
 ones, as they allow for some make believe free roaming and limited interaction with the residents 
 of MegaCity One. Once the main plot gets started and the player starts hunting the living dead 
 and the totally unbelievable four evil judges the gameplay starts to go downhill. Especially the 
 last third of the game, which boils down to a very linear corridor crawl replacing the living and 
 breathing city feel with uninspired dashes through dark hallways and vague boss fights.
  
  As it stands, I would have loved to see a more freeform style of play focusing more on general 
 patrolling and apprehension of criminals, but the game still delivers an entertaining if somewhat 
 short introduction to the world of Judge Dredd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 683B
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 10, 2006 7:32 am PT
Review:  Graphics :
  Though it is certainly not state of the art graphics they doesnt hurt your eyes either.
  The 
 crawling vampires are well animated and some skeletons in the last level are ok too.
  Overall graphics should have been better for a 2003 game, but it doesnt spoil the experience.
 
  
  Sound/Music: The music is especially annoying. Its the same loop repeated over and over again.
 
  Weapon sounds and dialogue is ok, but soon forgotten.
  
  Gameplay:
  Its a budget game shooter and with said it is ok. You wont be forced to think very much and the 
 action is pretty good although easy.
  
  Value:
  As mentioned the game is budget prized. It cost the same as 2 pizzas and a coke. So youll get 
 what you pay for. The game is fairly short, theres about 4 hours of pretty fun story based missions. 
 And for the hungry girls and boys you might also want to try the arcade campaign.
  
  Final words:
  The game is very easy and short. Boss fights doesnt feel like boss fights at all, 
 much too easy and not epic at all. Leveldesign is for the main part okay and sometimes the game 
 looks kinda boring.
  I havnt seen the movie nor have I read the comic books. This will not be the greatest game in 
 anybodys collection. Unless of course you just love the judge. Otherwise youll bought yourself 
 4 hours of fun and no frustration. And thats ok for the price you payed J
  
  Multiplayer:
  Couldnt be tried, I was very alone L, will try another day though as I think it 
 could be fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Professional0
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 12, 2006 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Ok so don't get me wrong this game is fun but there are a few points where I just wasn't feeling 
 it. This game seemed to be more of a time killer for me than anything else. Now it did have an 
 ok storyline but the graphics just didn't seem to fit. Even while running the game at the highest 
 graphics settings didn't really make too much of a difference. My next problem was that aside from 
 arresting perps you couldn't really interact with any other characters beyond a couple of basic 
 greetings you got when approaching other judges. Now I did like the different types of ammo that 
 they give you in the game to mess around in and although the whole thing wasn't too much of a challenge 
 I still had fun shooting up the perps and the different multiplayer games ended up being more intense 
 than the single player portion would have you believe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csm101
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 5, 2005 12:42 am PT
Review:  Well, with all the bad reviews, I was extremely hesitant to buy the game, but at its budget price 
 I did anyway, and I sure am glad I did! Obviously the Gamespot reviewer did not get very far into 
 the game, or was not a Judge Dredd fan to begin with, to have such low scores.
  What's probably turning a lot of people off is that they think the game is based on the Sylvester 
 Stallone movie. The game is based on the Judge Dredd comic strips in the magazine 2000AD. Most 
 Americans will be unfamiliar with the mag due to it's being relatively unknown outside England. 
 But if you have read them, you'll find that the game is very true to the comics. The plot could 
 be straight from the pages of 2000AD, and is pretty good.
  Gameplay is pretty straightforward, with the standard WASDF keys for movement and interacting with 
 the environment. Actually, it is very similar to the Republic Commando layout, even though it predates 
 that game by quite a while.
  The graphics, while perhaps not up to Half-Life 2 standards, are very good. Game characters are 
 a bit cartoony, but that's perfectly in keeping with the game's comic book origins. In fact, it's 
 almost as if you're in one of the Judge Dredd comics. Sound also is very good, with an option for 
 surround sound (although 5.1 would've been better) . The single-player campaign is of decent length, 
 and if you do well in the levels, additional content will be unlocked, which consists of a series 
 of mini-games called "Arcade". Think of them as individual missions to complement the campaign. 
 Multiplayer is through Gamespy only, but sadly the publisher has withdrawn support for multiplayer 
 for some reason. A shame, because the game includes co-op play for 2 people to play the campaign. 
 Still though, at $15 it's a super bargain. If you like Judge Dredd at all, you'll love this game. 
 And even if you never heard of him, it's still worth playing... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: satori
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 23, 2005 9:34 pm PT
Review:  If you're a fan of the original Comic then you're likely to enjoy this game. If you don't know 
 JD they you're out of luck. The game starts out with perfect in comic life. You arrest perps, check 
 out Mega city... do all the stuff you'd expect to. Then of course Judge Death escapes and all hell 
 breaks loose. The game AI is pretty good. The place the game falls down is the fact that it's repetitive 
 and very linear. The graphics aren't bad and I think the budget price is worth the purchase. If 
 you're a fan of the original Comic then you're likely to enjoy this game. If you don't know JD 
 they you're out of luck. The game starts out with perfect in comic life. You arrest perps, check 
 out Mega city... do all the stuff you'd expect to. Then of course Judge Death escapes and all hell 
 breaks loose. The game AI is pretty good. The place the game falls down is the fact that it's repetitive 
 and very linear. The graphics aren't bad and I think the budget price is worth the purchase. If 
 you're a fan of the original Comic then you're likely to enjoy this game. If you don't know JD 
 they you're out of luck. The game starts out with perfect in comic life. You arrest perps, check 
 out Mega city... do all the stuff you'd expect to. Then of course Judge Death escapes and all hell 
 breaks loose. The game AI is pretty good. The place the game falls down is the fact that it's repetitive 
 and very linear. The graphics aren't bad and I think the budget price is worth the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Varik
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 18, 2005 4:36 pm PT
Review:  If you were a fan of the origonal comic book, you will love this game for it's nostalgic value 
 alone. 
  
  After reading the GS review, I can safely say the writer who reviewed this game either did not 
 like the comic book, or is not familiar with it. The graphics come right out the book itself, and 
 playing this game you get a feel of of playing the art of Dredd.
  
  However the writer is correct in other aspects. This is not a ground breaking first person shooter. 
 It is a bit... "simple"... as far as first person shooters go.
  
  And there is a bit too much of the undead going on. But i also think that is true for most action 
 video games these days. The hang up about the undead has gotten old, and all games need to let 
 it go for a while.
  
  All in all, if you're a fan of the original comic book, you'll appreciate this game no matter the 
 game's small short comings.
  
  And if you can't afford $15 for a video game, you shouldn't be buying them in the first place. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
