-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Juiced
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/juiced/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lots of licensed cars.
 Team racing mechanic is interesting.
 Technically proficient graphics.
 Good soundtrack.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Driving model lacks any measure of excitement.
 Car customization options are pretty lackluster.
 Career mode is deep but suffers from some frustrating design flaws.
 Drab tracks and slightly strange-looking car models.
 The style races aren't fun at all.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 13, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.1
Critic Score: 6.7, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 1,237 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Juice Games
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date:     Jun 13, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
There is nothing exceptionally bad about Juiced's design, nor is there anything laudable about it. 
 

  THQ's offering to the street racing genre, Juiced, was originally due out last year. The Juice 
 Games-developed racer had initially been picked up under the Acclaim banner, but once Acclaim's 
 bankruptcy became a sudden and immediate situation, Juiced was sold off and subsequently delayed. 
 Thus far Juiced is the only former Acclaim property to get picked up, though after playing it, 
 it's hard to understand what the attraction would have been for any publisher, let alone two different 
 ones over time. Juice Games has certainly made a competent arcade-style street racer, one with 
 a lengthy career mode and online play to boot; but that's all it is: competent. There is nothing 
 exceptionally bad about Juiced's design, nor is there anything laudable about it. It simply exists 
 in an inoffensive and unexciting realm of commonplaceness that makes it incapable of standing out 
 among the pack of infinitely better racers available for any of its chosen platforms.  

           Sorry Tupac fans, Juiced isn't a sequel to the 1992 Academy Award-winning street drama 
 Juice.     

  Juiced's style of driving is more akin to the trafficless, cordoned-off track driving of something 
 like a Forza Motorsport or Gran Turismo game than the frenetic driving found in any of the Midnight 
 Club or Need for Speed Underground games, where you'd find yourself dodging traffic all while trying 
 to outwit the city's top street racers. However, the game's roster of cars is made up almost exclusively 
 of the kind of tuner rides you'd find in those games, and the driving is very much an arcade brand 
 of racing, rather than anything realistic. And therein lies the problem. The game tries to throw 
 you into a fast and loose style of driving in an overly controlled and generally bland track style. 
 The few instances of realism in the driving mechanics also rob it of some of its thrill, as you'll 
 have to carefully plot your turns so as to not wipe out (although you'll want to take the game's 
 braking advice with a grain of salt, as it is often inaccurate) , and bumping up against other cars 
 has a negative impact in multiple sections of the game, removing that kind of visceral thrill from 
 the picture. The races don't have a great sense of speed, so even when you're busting out with 
 your nitrous tank to blast past the competition, it comes off as pretty underwhelming. What you're 
 ultimately left with is a driving model that's off-kilter and generally not very exciting.  

  Most of the driving you'll be doing, at least in the early goings of Juiced, is in the career 
 mode. Here's where you'll be doing all the things you're generally supposed to do in a street racer: 
 buying cars, throwing down cash bets on races, occasionally racing for pink slips, and mostly just 
 trying to earn the respect of rival racing crews. Once you start a career, you begin by picking 
 out some crucial details, like your name and what licensed brand and model of cell phone you want 
 to use, and you are immediately challenged to a race by TK, the head of a crew called the Urban 
 Maulerz. Beat him, and you're on your way to purchasing your first ride. The initial selection 
 is scant, to say the least, but as you play, new cars will open up and become available in the 
 game's dealership. Half the point of the game is to build up your collection of cars and trick 
 them out in as many ways as you see fit. Unfortunately, the developers decided to make this a somewhat 
 frustrating process.  

  Cash is not an easy commodity to come by in Juiced. In the early sections of the game, your calendar 
 of upcoming race events is populated mostly with races that don't require an entry fee. That changes 
 rather quickly as you begin to upgrade your cars and get into events that require cars with higher 
 classifications. And even when you do participate in a free event, it's rarely free, as any damage 
 taken during a race translates into an upkeep fee that you'll have to pay to keep your ride in 
 perfect working order. The races become quite challenging as time goes on, so it becomes increasingly 
 impossible to have any expectation of coming away from a race with prize money. To try to counterbalance 
 this, you can attend events and place bets on who you think will win, or you can bet against other 
 racers in events you're participating in. You can even challenge crew leaders individually to pink 
 slip races, as well as some special challenges, which happen to be the only risk-free events in 
 the entire career mode.  

           Instead, it's a completely unremarkable street racer that's outclassed by just about everything 
 else currently on the market.     

  The problem is that apart from the individual challenges, none of these events or bets are any 
 easier, making it even more difficult to get ahead in the game's economic system. You can go from 
 having a nice cache of cars and a good wad of cash to practical bankruptcy over the course of just 
 a handful of races, all because you needed the money to upgrade your cars to win races but couldn't 
 upgrade because you couldn't win the races required to get the money, and you lost cash in the 
 process. It's a vicious circle. Of course, it isn't impossible to succeed in Juiced's career mode, 
 but it's a more frustrating process than it ought to be.  

  It might be a frustration worth dealing with if the career mode had anything more to it than it 
 does. Apart from a couple of unique things, for the most part you'll be running circuit, point-to-point, 
 and sprint races over and over again. The couple of unique events are an interesting touch, but 
 neither is really that great in the long run. The first thing is the game's team element, which 
 plays into team race events. Racing crews are more than just a logo and a name in Juiced, as you'll 
 be able to pick up somewhat generic racers to join up with you and race alongside you. During single-entrant 
 events, you can opt to have one of your drivers race for you to gain some experience in the process, 
 and during team events, the winner is determined by the team that has all its cars across the finish 
 line first.     

  While that all sounds well and good, the mechanic itself is woefully underdeveloped. Having guys 
 race for you in certain events is neat, but there's no way to bypass the race itself or even speed 
 it up, so you have to sit through one boring CPU-controlled race after another if you want to up 
 your team's skills. During team races, you have the ability to control the aggression level of 
 your teammates, but only to a minimal degree, and most times you'll be better off just leaving 
 the setting on high, since otherwise your team tends to underperform.  

           Juiced's driving style tries to tow a weird line between arcade and realism, and the result 
 is more dull and unwieldy than anything else.     

  The other unique event Juiced has to offer is a sort of style-based mode where the whole point 
 is to drive around, performing various moves and ultimately impressing the crowd, thus earning 
 you a higher score. While, again, that sounds neat in theory, there isn't a lot you can do here. 
 The tricks range from donuts and 360 spins to just achieving high levels of speed and drifting. 
 In fact, you mostly earn your points by how tricked-out your car is. Cars with more mods and customizations 
 earn higher score multipliers, thus making it a lot easier to get points. What's doubly distressing 
 is that this is the only serious motivation in the game to focus on customizing your cars, as the 
 game just doesn't have a spectacular variety of customizable items. It might have been a more impressive 
 roster, say, a year ago, when the game was originally supposed to come out. But with games like 
 Need for Speed Underground 2 and Midnight Club 3 around, the customization list pales by comparison. 

  Apart from the career mode, the game features a simple arcade mode, a custom race builder, and 
 multiplayer. The arcade mode and the custom race mode are pretty self-explanatory, and neither 
 is good for more than an hour or two of distraction, at best. The multiplayer on consoles comes 
 in split-screen, system link, and online varieties, and it fares a bit better. The online lets 
 you play both custom and career races, and in the career races you can use your career mode cars 
 and teammates. The online performance is just fine, and the mode itself is decent enough for an 
 online racer, but it doesn't have many features beyond simple competitive racing. Incidentally, 
 the PC version lacks the split-screen functionality, though that's hardly surprising.  

  Juiced isn't a bad-looking game for the most part, though it has some quirks that drag down its 
 visual presentation. The biggest offender is the tracks, which are beyond repetitive. Every street 
 environment looks exactly the same, as do the few other varieties of environments, so no matter 
 what track you're on, they all might as well be the same one. Also, the tracks are pretty archaic 
 looking, like something you might have seen a couple of years ago in a racing game. The cars are 
 definitely better, but even they have a slightly weird look that doesn't quite look right when 
 compared against the real-life car models. There aren't any technical issues to speak of in the 
 game, as the frame rate holds steady on all three versions, and apart from some jerkiness when 
 your car shifts, the race camera works fine. The PC version is decidedly less impressive looking 
 than the console versions, simply because it looks just like the Xbox version with only a marginally 
 cleaner look.  

           There's something slightly off about the car models that makes them look more generic 
 than they ought to.     

  The audio is pretty much more of the same. The car sounds come off as generic, and the few scattered 
 bits of voice acting that come from the crew leaders isn't very good. However, on the plus side, 
 the soundtrack is enjoyable. Featuring name artists like Xzibit, Paul Oakenfold, Dub Pistols, and 
 Kasabian, as well as a lot of stuff you've probably never heard of, the soundtrack fits the scope 
 of the game nicely and rarely sounds incorrect for the style the game is going for. And, of course, 
 Xbox owners can always use their own custom soundtracks.  

  In the end, it's hard to understand what, if anything, the developers of Juiced did with that extra 
 year between publishers. The whole thing feels antiquated to the point of obsolescence, and the 
 few interesting things the game does to try to set itself apart are counteracted by stupid problems 
 that seem like they could easily have been fixed with just a slightly different design philosophy. 
 As it is, there's no shortage of street racing games on consoles, and even on the PC, where the 
 competition is less of a factor, Juiced does very little to impress. Regardless of your platform 
 of choice, Juiced isn't worth your time.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (43 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: powerone1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game on the PC and tried it out. I found this game enjoyable even though it got bad 
 reviews. I think that enjoyment is the most important part but although i enjoy the game i am continually 
 frustrated by aspects of it like the fact that a stock dodge charger goes the same speed when you 
 have modded it up to 900 horse power. I don't get it!? how come power doesn't affect speed?
  Also driving becomes a matter of closing your eyes, crossing your fingers and praying "please don't 
 wipe out".
  I love the amount of cars there are and the fully customisability or whatever of them. I like how 
 you can create some really interesting paint jobs by using metallic paint, pearlescent (not sure 
 how to spell sorry) and normal paint to make you car a different color from every angle.
  You can really get some pretty styly cars like mustangs and other classic muscle cars but i am 
 put off these in the game as they have such ridiculous handling. Once i lost my really cool Classic 
 Dodge Charger in a pink slip race al because i couldn't take it around a single corner. It had 
 almost 1000BHP!
  i was so angry it was full of prototype mods although i don't think the car was quite full of them 
 enough to become a prototype car but it was worth over $100,000.
  How ever much i hate this game at times i just realise that i always come back, start again and 
 that's because i enjoy it. 
  
  I would recommend this game to people who like street racers and i would say that even though it 
 gets bad reviews, you should still buy it as you will most probably still enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaDVD
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 25, 2007 1:43 am PT
Review:  Juiced for pc has lots of cars and nothing else the graphics where absolutely abysmal and a total 
 disaster. This game has the worst looking cars I have ever seen in any racing game of its time 
 and it made my eyes hurt looking at it. The games sound was ok but it looks as like this game was 
 direct ported from a really bad console system, take your pick as to which one. This game obviously 
 does not live up to the PCs high standards for game graphics. The controls where sluggish and 
 poor what else is there to say this games sucked and gets a abysmal 2 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ermaneng
Rating: 1.6
Date: Jun 2, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  at a first glance it looks good. a different settings like respect and betting are good. and hosting 
 a race and pinkslipping a racer from the phone list are good too. music is perfect
  
  the bad things are the real problems. gameplay is horrible. there is no handling even with keyboard 
 (so don't think to play this game with your wheel) graphics doesn't meet the needed quality. environment 
 doesn't attract anyone. the car details are bad too
  
  upgrades are so simple. you don't even set up your car
  
  it's difficult i think because of 
 the bad gameplay
  
  and after spending some time on game it becomes dull
  
  that's all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tizsharp
Rating: 1.3
Date: Mar 5, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  I'm stunned, why is the ratings so high, i've been in more intresting maths lessions...
  The graphics are bad, the handling was crazy, there was no plot, the manu screen made me dizzy, 
 the cars looked poor and don't get me started on the add on that allows the user to bet on races 
 because its a joke in the fact that the car thats betted on never wins. I could carry on all day 
 about the game the fact of the matter is that if you go for this game you will pay &pound;5 for 
 a temporary and rather depressing time warp back to the late 90's which for a game made in 2004-2005 
 is quite an attchevment.
  What i'm getting at here is i learned the hard way but if you havent got it yet you don't have 
 to, so don't and im extreamly worried for anyone giving this above a 7 rating
  P. S i would not take my judgement on difficulty or learning curve because i gave up after 10 minutes 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 20, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  Juiced includes three main gameplay modes - career, arcade, custom race and online gameplay (through 
 GameSpy) -each with its own variations such as solo races, sprints, point-to-point, etc. In Career 
 Mode, which is the main part of the game, the player is thrust into the import-tuning world of 
 underground racing. Earning cash lets you buy cars and parts. Progression is based on respect from 
 rival crews and the more respect you earn the more events appear on the race calendar. Respect 
 brings balance to the cash aspect. If you have lots of money but no respect, you cannot progress 
 and vice versa if you have respect but no cash, you can't buy the cars, parts and race entries 
 you need. So, you have to be skillful in your driving and team management, as well as good at modding. 
 You generally have the choice of four main event types: Point To Point, Circuit races, Sprints 
 (multi-heat drag races) , and Show Offs. You can race on a certain track as an individual or team. 
 Some of these races are free, but most cost money to enter. The problem comes when you lose a number 
 of races, make some bad money bets and are left with a rather depleted bank balance. It gets frustrating 
 when your skill level isn't developing as fast as the deficit in your account. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IMAnnihilator
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 16, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  The games of the Need For Speed series have a serious flaw. I've played the NFS Underground, Underground 
 2 and Most Wanted and in all of them a saw the same mistakes. The competitors of all the races 
 match the capabilities of your car to make a fair race. But I think that it is frustrating to ba 
 able to win almost any race with a stock car.
  As you move on with the career, you can see that changing back to the car you first used (in early 
 game) you can still win the races. I felt very disappointed when I did this (Try it!) . It takes 
 out the reason for improving the cars!
  
  In Juiced this is entirely different, because every car has its own properties and power. To control 
 that you not always face incredible powerful cars there is a system of categories implemented. 
 The races have a minimum and a maximum power for the cars to be able to enter the event. So, in 
 this way, if you enter a race which has a top power of 400 HP with a car of 200 HP is very likely 
 that you face cars that have more speed and acceleration that your own. This is why you must tune 
 your car for th events.
  
  Another excellent aspect of this game is the Economy system. As the official review of Game-spot 
 says, you can have a very wide stock of cars in one point, and loose them because you lost too 
 many races that have entry fees or lost too many bets. But this is not a negative issue! It's excellent 
 because you should not enrol in a race to loose it! The point is to win, right?
  
  The Economy model also takes into account car damage. After every race, you must repair the car 
 according the damage you've inflicted to it. This helps you to race better, because you avoid hitting 
 the walls and other cars at full speed. Again, it is not a negative issue, unless you can't drive 
 well.
  
  All these aspects make Juiced a game in which YOU CAN LOOSE, unlike many modern games. It might 
 be frustrating to have 15 cars and start selling them in order to win some races, but that gives 
 an extra push towards making an effort.
  
  Do not mistake my words. I like NFS. In fact, I am playing Most Wanted Right now, but it has some 
 flaws that won't be corrected because is a game intended for those people who like seeing speed 
 and smashing things with a 150,000 U$D car, not for people who enjoy Racing.
  
  The graphics in Juiced are not as good as in NFS series and the speed is not as well modeled as 
 in that series, but they are still good graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ATG142
Rating: 4.4
Date: Feb 1, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  An absolute waste of time... i would strongly advise anyone against it. Its a complete letdown and 
 does not provide any promising experience. The graphics are rusty and the gameplay aint so fabolous. Not 
 much customiztion options are there and what are available are really crappy.... the driving is 
 totally messed up... career mode is a real boring experience. Even the cinematic cut-scenes are a 
 joke. The customization items are the biggest joke... There are not many cars to select from. Overall 
 it is an unsuccessful attempt to attract Underground addicted gamers... The graphics are really 
 poor and sound quality isnt good as well... Gameplay does not live up to the standards of the Underground 
 series... If u are thinking some sort of Underground street racing, then its time to wake up....... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: queenfan66
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 2, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  this game is a really good game. If you are used to games like forza and project gotham this game 
 is a game you might want to check out. If you only played need for speed this game could be dificult. 
 If games could get a T rating for dificulty this game would have it. This game is really frustrating 
 if you dont play many car games. This game is hard but a game worthy of praise. This game takes 
 a little while to master. Dont give this to somebody who just started car games. Need for speed 
 is a racing game. this game is a car sim. this game is not easy. It is very difficult. But still 
 a game you should try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BurnThisCity
Rating: 6.6
Date: Nov 22, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Before you play this game, you have to remember that this is not your Need for Speed game. In the 
 beginning of the game you get to choose from a few Group 8 cars which are of the bottom of the 
 unlockable cars in career mode. Very soon you will be able to unlock most of the cars. The graphics 
 is very overwhelming though Juiced fails to carry out a storyline like the recent titles in the 
 NFS series, which even though the cars offered and gameplay is new and freshing at first it does 
 get boring and dull very quickly. Half way through the career mode you may feel that the game is 
 never going to end. Since the player is doing the same four kind of races over and over against 
 the same people with similar envrionments over and over, there may be a rush of boredom and you 
 may start to ask yourself, What's the ultimate purpose of this game again? 
  
  On the other hand, the collection of cars is very different from the NFS titles. There includes 
 a collection of American Muscles and Tuner cars which the player can choose from depending on the 
 mod-ability and horsepower. It may be a little too realistic when the game won't allow you to bring 
 your tuner cars to higher classes (Civic, Eclipse, and even Skyline to name a few) . *******
  All and all, this game is only worth buying if it's in the bargin bins of your local game store. 
 Sure you may play this game at the beginning to kill time but in the end you will VERY likely to 
 realize that this game is really a waste of time and it lingers and goes no where due to a lack 
 of storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnzoLake
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 21, 2007 5:11 am PT
Review:  Tras el cierre de Acclaim en el 2004, el futuro de Juiced estuvo en el aire y a punto estuvo de 
 caer en el olvido. Medio a&ntilde; o despu&eacute; s, este juego de tuning sale a la luz con muchas 
 novedades incluidas en este per&iacute; odo de incertidumbre. Introducci&oacute; n Juiced es el &uacute; ltimo 
 juego que se apunta a la moda del tuning. Su acci&oacute; n se desarrolla en las calles de Angel 
 City, una ciudad dividida en nueve barrios, cada uno gobernado por una banda diferente. T&uacute; 
 eres el chico nuevo que llega al barrio. T. K., jefe de los Urban Maulerz de San Ricardo, te reta 
 a una carrera en la que correr&aacute; s con un coche suyo prestado. Le ganas y, adem&aacute; s de 
 ganarte su respeto, te obsequia con unos cuantos miles de d&oacute; lares para que puedas comprarte 
 tu primer coche. Con ese primer coche tendr&aacute; s que ir ganando las carreras que puedas, a 
 la vez que lo vas tuneando y ahorrando para tu siguiente coche, ya que no hay l&iacute; mite de 
 coches en tu garaje. Cuando hayas ganado unas cuantas carreras, te llegar&aacute; n ofertas de gente 
 que quiere unirse a tu banda. Ahora te toca hacerte con el respeto de los otros ocho barrios de 
 Angel City. Gr&aacute; ficos Gr&aacute; ficamente, Juiced es un gran juego, aunque para m&iacute; 
 sin llegar al nivel de otros de su g&eacute; nero comoson Need for Speed: Underground 2 o Midnight 
 Club 3: DUB Edition. El modelado de los coches est&aacute; bastante detallado, llegando a ser reproducciones 
 fieles de los reales. Adem&aacute; s, los coches se ven deformados y destrozados a medida que chocas, 
 cosa que estaba bastante olvidada en los juegos de conducci&oacute; n &uacute; ltimamente. Se han 
 incluido unos efectos de iluminaci&oacute; n y reflejos que le dan un aspecto bastante espectacular 
 al juego, sobre todo cuando est&aacute; ambientado de noche. Las carreras transcurren en la ciudad 
 de Angel City, que est&aacute; bastante detallada. Lo &uacute; nico que se echa en falta es el tr&aacute; nsito 
 de coches por las calles, ya que har&iacute; a algo m&aacute; s dif&iacute; cil la conducci&oacute; n 
 y le dar&iacute; a un toque de realismo. Lo mejor de todo es que el juego va bastante fluido, es 
 dif&iacute; cil apreciar alguna ralentizaci&oacute; n. Esto hace posible que la sensaci&oacute; n 
 de velocidad sea m&aacute; xima, cosa muy importante en este tipo de juegos. Sonido La calidad del 
 sonido es muy alta. Se puede apreciar f&aacute; cilmente la diferencia entre el motor de los diferentes 
 coches, la utilizaci&oacute; n del nitro y los aplausos del p&uacute; blico. Las voces de nuestros 
 rivales o compa&ntilde; eros (que bien podemos o&iacute; r durante la carrera o en los videos cuando 
 apostamos o realizamos otras acciones) son en espa&ntilde; ol, y aunque el doblaje es bastante bueno, 
 pueden llegar a resultar algo repetitivas debido a la escasa variedad. La banda sonora es muy buena, 
 en gran parte rapera, cosa que se adapta muy bien al ambiente del juego. Para los que no les guste 
 la banda sonora, siempre tienen la opci&oacute; n de importar su propia m&uacute; sica. Jugabilidad 
 Quiz&aacute; s uno de los aspectos negativos del juego es el control del coche, que puede ser algo 
 dif&iacute; cil cuando se tiene el coche de serie. Es bastante sensible a los cambios y es frecuente 
 hacer trompos. Esto se soluciona cuando se le instalan las oportunas mejoras al coche. En el modo 
 historia, la selecci&oacute; n de carreras es bastante f&aacute; cil. Tenemos acceso a un calendario 
 en el que est&aacute; n marcadas todas las carreras disponibles. Las que est&aacute; n en verde son 
 aquellas en las que podemos participar. No hay m&aacute; s que marcarlas y tras dos pantallas la 
 carrera ha empezado. Existen cuatro de tipos de carreras:
  - Circuito: es el modo cl&aacute; sico, se dan varias vueltas a un circuito definido.
  - Punto 
 a punto: otro modo cl&aacute; sico, hay que ir de un punto a otro de la ciudad compitiendo con el 
 resto de coches.
  - Esprint: es una carrera de aceleraci&oacute; n en una recta con cambio de marchas manual. Son 
 tres carreras muy cortas seguidas y gana el que tenga m&aacute; s puntos.
  - Exhibici&oacute; n: est&aacute; s solo y tienes que exhibirte con tu coche preferido ante el resto 
 de las bandas. Tienes un n&uacute; mero de puntos como objetivo. Trompos, giros de 180&ordm;, boomerangs&amp;#8230; 
 todo vale y todo cuenta. Adem&aacute; s est&aacute; n las carreras no oficiales, que solo est&aacute; n 
 disponibles cuando te has ganado gran parte del respeto de tus rivales. En ellas te juegas tu mejor 
 coche contra su mejor coche, as&iacute; que hay que tener cuidado y estar muy seguro. Conclusi&oacute; n 
 Juiced es un gran juego dentro de este g&eacute; nero del tuning que est&aacute; tan de moda &uacute; ltimamente. 
 Tiene grandes toques de originalidad para este nuevo g&eacute; nero y probablemente servir&aacute; 
 de ejemplo para muchos juegos que saldr&aacute; n pr&oacute; ximamente. Es una compra obligada para 
 cualquier fan de los coches y del tuning en especial. Lo mejor - Su originalidad
  - El trasfondo de las bandas
  - La fluidez
  - La multitud de coches disponibles
  - La m&uacute; sica 
 y los efectos de sonido Lo peor - No te da la sensaci&oacute; n de una ciudad abierta
  - El manejo de los coches
  - Las frases de los personajes
  - Al no poderse fijar la dificultad, 
 puede resultar algo f&aacute; cil 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brad11344
Rating: 6.7
Date: Sep 14, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  this game isnt a good game i mean yea u can tune up ur car but its not worth $20 online play is 
 kinda fun but if u try to tune up ur car i mean u can only do the engine and sum body you can choose 
 from 4 diffrent kinds of bumpers side skirts, rear ends, and hoods, and like 15 wings and decals, 
 but u cant change ur head lights PLUS driving is a pain in the @ss because u can have ur max handling 
 but u have a rear wheel drive car ha!! forget about getting around that cornor youll do a spin 
 so fast you dont know what happend.... get need for speed undgerground atleast 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halimi
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 12, 2006 1:01 am PT
Review:  JUICED is the best racing game i've ever played, man!
  Way better that MOST WANTED!!, bit better than undergrounds.
  JUICED is an awsome game man gotta 
 play it.
  JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED 
 JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 JUICED JUICED JUICEDJUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED. JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED 
 JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED 
 JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 JUICED JUICED JUICEDJUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED. JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED 
 JUICEDJUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED 
 JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 JUICED JUICED JUICEDJUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED. JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED 
 JUICEDJUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED 
 JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 JUICED JUICED JUICEDJUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED. JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED 
 JUICEDJUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED 
 JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 JUICED JUICED JUICEDJUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED. JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED JUICED 
 JUICED 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knut-am
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 10, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  O my, lol.. thank GOd i bought it on sale. had i payed anything like close to a normal game i would 
 be sad to my dying day. but after all it is over a year old this game, though i am not sure i will 
 actually call it a game. whatever i do i cant get my weel to work, the stearing is there but the 
 pedals i can do nothing with, the option menu for altering things like that are horriffic, the 
 graphice was outdated from day one... and so and so and so.. lol what a waste. i need to start 
 to figure out who my worst enemy are so that i can give it to him/her as a present (without salvation) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kim_nielsen
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 30, 2006 2:52 am PT
Review:  I think we all can agree that this game isn't the best, but i have played the game with wheel and 
 pedal from Logitec and it worked great...
  
  I love the part where you have to pay for the damage you made through the race, and you loose respect, 
 but its too bad, that your crew, can't drive a car, stupid F**ks....
  
  I Really like to drive Pink-slips, in my Viper GT, no one can win over me in the game, but i hate 
 that the road not always go straight, some have stupid curves where the car gets out of control... 
 and you loose....
  
  all in all, it's a fun game and there are so many cars, that it can be hard to choose, i love to 
 mix the deferents painting, so it gets a crazy look....
  
  it's a great detail, that you can choose to buy a new car or look at som used, some times it's 
 best to buy a used car....
  
  the help you get in the races are useless, the only thing you can use it too is to see how sharp 
 the turn is....
  
  But it's still a game you can't live without, if you love car-games.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EntwineX
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 25, 2006 6:26 am PT
Review:  First of all, you need some other controller than Keyboard for this one, I played it on Joystick 
 and it was good, but the ability to control acceleration still made it a bit difficult. I believe 
 Steering wheel with pedals is the best option for this game.
  
  The career mode is IMO much more interesting than in the competing games. The player has to build 
 himself a team, this means you need AI teammates and lots of different cars to be able to compete 
 in every race gategory. That is what makes Juiced so much more interesting than for e. g NFS. The 
 cars are this game's strong point, each car actually handles differently from each other, you can 
 also see detailed specs like horsepowers ect. as you upgrade your cars. The choise of cars is wide (50) , 
 from small french cars to huge american muscle cars with 1000hp. Too bad the Dodge Viper is too 
 superior to any other car in the game, once you get one, winning races becomes way too easy. But 
 luckily the career mode includes "pink slip" races, where one mistake can cost you the Cruise missile 
 which you call Viper. 
  
  The most fun aspect of Juiced is the team racing mode where your AI teammates will race with you 
 against another team, and naturally you have to provide each of your teammates with a good car, 
 you also need to set their aggression levels during race, too high and they spin, too low and they 
 are left behind. AI racers also gain experience and get better. And for e. g to race in a teamtournament 
 that is only for USA made cars, you need an american car for each of your teammembers. You can 
 also bet money on the races, or have your AI teammate do the racing. This works fine on Drag Racing; 
 give your teammate a Viper and bet money on him, then watch him gain experience, a victory and 
 some easy cash. In longer races watching AI drivers would be boring, so better do most of the racing 
 yourself.
  
  The AI opponents all have personalities, they aren't the same faceless machines you race against 
 in most games. In Juiced they will get angry when you ram them, this will cost you their respect. 
 You gain respect by doing well in races, different teams appreciate different kind of races. Once 
 you have their respect you can challenge them for their car in "pink slip" race. the career mode 
 is very long and keeps you busy for quite a while.
  
  The driving model is quite challenging, it's relatively easy to do mistakes, still it has arcade 
 feel to it. But I like the way crashing walls and other cars is done in Juiced, you have to pay 
 for the repairs, and crashing competitors will cost you also, in dollars and in respect. Much better 
 than the "mash everything on your way" style most arcade racing games are known for, no leaning 
 to walls in this one.
  
  Graphics aren't on the same level as in the other competing games. But they still aren't bad in 
 any sense. Luckily the soundtrack is good and the other sound effects do their job also. Also the 
 game interface is clear and easy to use, and you don't have to cruise around looking for tuning 
 shops ect. The track desing could had been more interesting tho.
  
  Despite all the good things Juiced has, it's competition especially on consoles will push in into 
 oblivion and for a good reason. If you didn't especially like the NFS series on PC you should give 
 Juiced a shot, but even tho the game is quite good, the driving model won't suite everyone and 
 will at first feel strange to everyone, that's why I recommend trying out the demo first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ford-freak
Rating: 6.4
Date: Aug 15, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  juicedwasnt a bad game i like it but its hard gameplay and the fact that u hav 2 pay for the car 
 to get repaired get in the way that it was not a bad game sadly it could hav been better....
  
  MUCH BETTER!
  
  this is no nfs game and it shows
  this game is ovrappreciated by the 
 makers but the players just dont like it it just wasnt a good game it was way to unrealistic the 
 cars can turn a lot better than that in real life thats why i just dont like it it has a lot more 
 to learn from other games like nfs before it will get a beter rating
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 31, 2006 4:02 am PT
Review:  After playing Juiced for two days, i am convinced it is lot better game than most reviewers think. 
 Comparing it to need for speed underground games is tempting, but it is like comparing a photoshopped 
 picture to real person.
  
  Graphics are for the most part, awesome. Racing games are all about cars, and car models here are 
 both plenty and varied. Some trully awesome reflection and paint options, which nfs-u can only 
 hope to match. You race a track on different lighting conditions, which is a nice touch and gives 
 sense or realism. There is however, no traffic and no "life" to tracks. Lack of trees and other 
 small road side objects is very noticable too. One problem is the Lense flare option, it makes 
 graphics look pixelated and blurry even when standing still, so I turned it off. Skid marks while 
 accelerating and braking are missing for some reason. But the damage model is functional and particle 
 system is good too. Cars look absolutely stunning, far better than in nfs-u.
  
  Interface graphics, like videos and icons appear very ugly. As if someone resized them without 
 any filtering. Overall, if there were clear videos and skidmarks (and a few more objects on tracks) 
 i'd give it a 10. Control scheme is fairly good as default. I used Logitech Rumblepad and Momo 
 Force racing wheel, and in both cases, i had to decrease sensitivity quite a notch to play. Controls 
 could be a bit better, cars handle a bit loosely. But you get used to it.
  
  Sound effects are okay.. but slightely weaker compared to nfs-u. All cars have distinct engine 
 sounds, you can select car horn and that's about it. Music is pretty good, with some rather wicked 
 rap songs. However, soundtrack is a bit short, and ability to have different songs for menu and 
 racing is lacking.
  
  Gameplay is where this game really shine .. or lacks. Basically, it is awesome. You get to do a 
 LOT more than just race from a to b. And the racing envoirnment filled with different characters 
 feel a lot more alive here. Your actions during racing determine how much respect you get. Do not 
 expect to get applaud if you slam into opponent's car's. Racing modes are a lot more realistic 
 and thanks to the damage model, you can no longer rely on "crash to brake" tactics. Which makes 
 racing that much intense.
  
  However, there are some problems with this game. Mainly the computer AI is extremely good. The 
 amount you bet combined with horsepower difference can make same opponent completely different! 
 Let's say if opponent's MR2 is 198hp, and you drive a 206 with 150hp; at bets around 2500-3000 
 you can fairly easily win. But you have to work REAL hard if you had bet like 10000-24000 .. This 
 makes perfect sense too.. no one wanna risk their car for a lousy bet, but if bet is more than 
 your car's worth, they'd put it all on stakes and try to win. So yeah, its fair as long as you 
 too can put your skills to the test. If only cars handled bit more responsively.
  That one spin during a turn can cause you race, and possibly your car if going for pink slips.
 
  
  "There are not enough tweaking options" is a common statement about juiced. I do not agree with 
 that. Sure, you can not add roof scoops or change side mirrors, but it offers you ride hight selection, 
 ECU tuning (change horsepower to compete in different catagories) gearbox ratios and user defined 
 3-layersd colors!
  
  This game is an attempt to put back what was missing from need for speed underground series.. depth! 
 It tries to combine gameplay depth from Nfs-Porsche 2000 (best racing game ever imho) with visuals 
 and street racing theme of NFS-u. And in my oppinion it achieves most of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deus_ex_2000
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 29, 2006 1:09 am PT
Review:  Like I said, it plays like both an Arcade game and a deep Simulation racer. Put too pressure on 
 the gas, the car spins, don't drive in a racing line, the car doesn't slow down in time to take 
 the turn even if you start brakin early. The team racing style was good but the AI was lackluster. 
 
  
  The plus point for this game is the graphics and sound. The graphics are amazing, especially if 
 you crank up the settings and play in rainy night. The soundtrack collection is good too and fits 
 perfectly into the street racing theme. The car sounds are a good but not great.
  
  The career mode is deep and almost never ending but it suffers from the repitetion. The arcade 
 mode is like a time trial and regular racing for the most part and is fun but the further you progress, 
 the more difficult the Time Trail gets. Its almost impossible and frustrating especially since 
 the car mechanics for this game is on the weird side, too much simulation for an arcade style racer.
 
  
  The customisation options is limited, Very limited I should say but the car color option is good. 
 You can set the color to your desire. 
  
  Overall, the game just looks and sounds awesome and you may like it initially and the career mode 
 is fun but the Arcade mode in later stages makes you forget what a wonderful experience this had 
 been.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin_d_11
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 9, 2006 11:47 pm PT
Review:  So Boring... but the game play was nice.. the collection of cars was nice too however the game sucks
 
  Most Wanted is great fun, from its hysterical cutscenes to its extremely tense police chases. 
 
  NFS Underground 2
  Need for Speed Underground 2 is pretty good, but unfortunately most of the stuff you do in between 
 races keeps you away from the game's best moments. 
  Need for Speed: Wanted
  Most Wanted is great fun, from its hysterical cutscenes to its extremely tense police chases. 
 
  NFS Underground 2
  Need for Speed Underground 2 is pretty good, but unfortunately most of the stuff you do in between 
 races keeps you away from the game's best moments. 
  GT Legends
  A joy to play and a real showpiece for the vintage cars it replicates, GT Legends is a great achievement 
 and a must-have for simulation addicts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rahulprince
Rating: 1.3
Date: Apr 5, 2006 11:40 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game after playing nfs most wanted so i think it is a complete fiasco. Graphics are 
 not at all appealing and sound of the engine is like rickshaw and almost all cars have the same 
 sound. No Range of visual customisation is available. Handling of the cars is terrible compared 
 to nfs. I would suggest playing road fighter on 8-bit video game then playing such a letdown. I 
 simply hate the bets in the race and the respect thing was only ok.
  I love THQ but this is a complete 
 
  So i'd rather think b4 buying the next in the series. But i rather hope next time it will be lots 
 better than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamemasta456456
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 5, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  This was a disaster and VERY disappointing... like is said in my title.. it is true.. i will give 
 this a little tilt though beacause i feel bad for it... Juiced is a street racing game like midnight 
 club, need for speed, etc except worse than those legendary titles... The opening cut scene was 
 amazing but in the game, i was not impressed....
  
  Gameplay/Enertainment: Racing which is taken from other games, this is very boreing, AI is very 
 dumb....
  5/10
  
  Graphics: Very hideous, except for the cut-scenes, the cars look like crap in the game...
  5/10 
 (because of the scenes the grade was highered)
  
  Sound: The cars sound like CRAP (engines) , music is ok
  4/10
  
  Value: Not even worth 10 
 bucks, this is a horrible, mediocre title......
  4/10
  
  Reviewers tilt: I really feel sorry for this title, dont know why, i guess i have a soft side, 
 i at least wanted it to have a mediocre grade instead of bad...
  6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellFire01
Rating: 3.9
Date: Feb 24, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Juiced had it. During its long development stage, I tracked this game. I was happy to see all of 
 Japan's premier sports cars all in one game [i. e. Acura/Honda NSX] . Once I got it installed and 
 played it for about an hour, I was really disappointed. 
  
  Where have you seen a front-wheel drive had actually better handling than a all-wheel, moreover, 
 a rear-wheel drive vehicle? I mean doing donuts on a front-wheeler is actually a walk in the park 
 compared to a rear-wheel drive??? Unbelievable.
  
  Physics is the key in enjoying a driving game regardless if its a sim or an arcade racer. I expected 
 a patch to come out for this game to fix the handling issue. 
  
  Graphics is okay.
  
  Sound is terrible.
  
  I thought this game was it. I was hugely wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shattyguy
Rating: 1.7
Date: Feb 19, 2006 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Okay, the previews for this game were off da chain! I was waiting in front of EB Games for 6 hours 
 to get this game. I took it home and 10 minutes in, I uninstalled it from my computer.
  
  I gave it a 3 in gameplay because its has a good storyline. Respect and presision are important 
 in real-life racing (as i know, being an avid racer myself) and that was a welcomed suprise. However, 
 the suprises ended there. On the cover it says "Over 7.5 trillion car customization possibilites". 
 I thought "finally i can reproduce my car!". ('98 dodge neon with wings west body kit and spoiler) 
 I was wrong! You can only get like 3 kits per car! The vinyls are a joke! For pure customization, 
 get NFS Underground I or II.
  
  Omg, the graphics are horrible! I had a game called Donkey Kong 3 for SNES and those graphics were 
 better than this! Look, i know what your saying, "your computer probably sucks." Well i have a 
 Dell Dimension desktop with an intel pentium 4 processor with a Nvidia GEForce 8100 graphics card 
 and a sound blaster sound card. Let me tell you, i had everything on the max for the game and my 
 neon had a box look to it! If this game was made to compete with others like NFS or Gran Tourismo, 
 thenthrow it away and get the others!
  
  Sound is okay. The lack of good songs and the fact that almost all the cars sound the same is what 
 makes Atari look alot better! (Dig Dug kix a**)
  
  The game was cheap for a reason! The only use for this game to me is a dust collector. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katilmis
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 18, 2006 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Surprisingly good!
  
  I tought 2 years ago, Need For Speed will be best driving games, ever.
  Sad, no happened. Juiced 
 is a really car simulator, with a very nice graphic, no atom reactor needed to play, more cars 
 than perhaps in any games ever (not addon cars, originally in-game) , variously steerings, not much 
 but on a creative playground (a city) .
  
  Pink slip is one option that reminds me to MotorCity Online. That was fine, sad here no multiplay 
 option.
  
  Great cars, old ones and new ones, many famous of them. my favorite is the $2000 Civic :D small 
 car, but nice, old but fast..
  Nice that how many difference between front and rear-drive cars..
  but I think rear-drive ones 
 are a bit beyond control.
  Nice tuning options, but not much : (
  In this category NFS is the winner.
  
  Crash is really good but not enough, but that is what 
 we must to understand..
  After a little time managing with money is no problem, after a long time it is too easy :)
  
 
  I had half million dollars and half hundred pieces of "wrecks" :D
  But it is a good game to kill the time, AI is good, I love the game, but waiting for some updates, 
 or addons, or multiplay option.. 
  that's my opinion, thank you, Hannibal (from Hungary) , 2005.12.17 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xupthree60
Rating: 5.7
Date: Feb 1, 2006 11:40 pm PT
Review:  PROS: real body kits, realistic performance mods, pink slip racing
  CONS: graphics suck, control response sux, engine sounds electronic?, physics and ai sux beyond 
 explination
  this game has everything its competitor's are missing like being real (its like we either have 
 car customization or realism, why cant we have both) but its like they used a 30 y/o game engine 
 to build it 
  but it is very addictive especialy when everytime ur gonna get off someone chalenges u to a pink 
 slip race
  after awhile this game gets pretty boring but u still cant stop playing it, i was very excited 
 about pink slip racing but then when u get to level 1 cars u have so many cars and so much money 
 that u really dont give a care at all if u loose it
  
  i love the real cars, body kits, performance, but i just wish that it had driving physics that 
 were even half way decent and ai that could drive in a straight line and get a car pointed the 
 right way i mean they go down the straights bouncing off both walls the whole time and when they 
 spin they cant get turned around for about 30 seconds cuz they keep backing up 2 feet and then 
 driving straight into the wall agian, hopfully they will make enough money off this one to buy 
 a new engine to make juiced 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiteshchawla
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jan 15, 2006 6:16 am PT
Review:  it was a pretty good one . not to be classified as the best of the best . but can say its neutral 
 . well i am eagerly waiting for JUICED 2 . n hope this time they see all the reviews before making 
 the sequel . the graphics r not that good but its not that bad either . driving is not to be considered 
 against NFS most wanted . hope all guys njoy juiced , n hope that JUICED 2 will be in the thoughts 
 of the developers . n this time it would be the best of the best around . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LucasPossidonio
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 26, 2005 5:08 am PT
Review:  Its a good game, sometimes its boring you but have a good graphics and its very playable i think 
 you spend many hours playing the game ... you have to start the game with the right car or you spent 
 many hours plus trying to advance in the game ... isn't easy to reach enough respect with the other 
 racers but it make with you earn more cash... in my opinion is a good game but everything was wanted 
 don't were founded ... the graphics are good and don't heavy you don't need to have a monster machine 
 to run the game the effects are beautiful too 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saxcatz
Rating: 2.8
Date: Dec 25, 2005 5:24 am PT
Review:  Juiced pretends to be many things, but in actuality is only one: a cheap attempt to cash in on 
 the popularity of Need for Speed Underground 2 (henceforth known as NFS: UG2) . Unfortunately, even 
 at that endeavor, it fails.
  Graphics: 
  Track graphics in Juiced are reasonably realistic and look good at high speed thanks to carefully 
 chosen track textures that seem quite hi-res at first glance. The roadway on most tracks nearly 
 always has a "wet" look to it, even in dry conditions, that undoubtedly helps this. Scenery is 
 sparse but well executed.
  Car models, on the other hand, are awful at best. Models have immediate and noticeable flaws of 
 the type rarely seen since 1998, but are at least reminiscent of the cars that they are intended 
 to represent. Textures just make the matter worse. Just look at the headlights on the Acura RSX/Honda 
 Integra Type-R or the taillights on the '99 Ford Mustang GT. The overall effect is reminiscent 
 of a "wild-tangent"-type online racer, rather than a major title that debuted on the shelves of 
 major retailers at $39.99+.
  Sound:
  Music in the game is up-tempo and appropriate, but it lacks the star power of, oh... say, Snoop 
 Dogg on the NFS: UG2 soundtrack (the comparison begs to be made) .
  Sound effect in-game are worse. To the naked ear, the engine sounds of a Dodge Vipers 8.0L V-10 
 are nearly indistinguishable from that of a Honda Civic's 1.7 I-4. It almost sounds as if THQ began 
 with the same engine sound for all vehicles, and then just re-mixed the levels of bass and treble 
 for each car. The wonderful, lopey throb of what would assume to be the 1967 Shelby GT 350 (but 
 labeled, in the game's designer's infinite attention to detail, only as '67 Mustang) should stir 
 souls. Instead, this is complete absent and replaced by a sound that reminds one of bygone summers 
 spent on a riding lawnmower.
  Gameplay:
  To describe handling in this game I will again make this comparison: driving "physics" in this 
 game are more like those of a "wild-tangent"-type online racer rather that what one might expect 
 (at bare-minimum) from a full price retail tile. To get the best idea of what it feels like to 
 play this game without actually having to suffer through it, try this: play GTA: San Andreas and 
 drive a vehicle with four blown-out tires. Turn a little, the car barely deviates from it's previous 
 heading. Turn a little more and the car abruptly turns straight into the wall. There is no steering 
 "feel" so to speak and the overall effect is that of Atari's 1982 Pole Position title.
  AI is ridiculous. Drive a perfect race and the computer opponents will dog you to the finish line. 
 Make one mistake, regardless of how well you have driven up to that point, and the computer WILL 
 pass you. On the other hand, drive like a 3 year at a PS2 demo station at your local Best Buy and 
 the computer will continue to "wipe-out" until you are bumper to bumper again. 
  Another detail worth noting is the developer's complete inattention to detail. Horsepower number 
 for most vehicles in the game seem to have been arbitrarily chosen or based on whatever number 
 a designer came up with at the time. For instance, a Ford Focus ZTS, endowed in reality with a 
 2.3L 144hp 4-cylinder, is listed with 161bhp (never mind the fact that horsepower ratings from 
 manufacturers are typically rated at the crank and some power is lost to transmission and etc before 
 getting to the pavement, which is what bhp is a measure of.) Also, the 67 Mustang is listed to 
 produce 372bhp. In reality, this vehicle (assuming it is intended to be a 1967 Shelby GT350 as 
 it appears) made only 271hp from its Hi-po 289 V-8. Even if it were the most powerful model available 
 that year, the famous 1967 Shelby GT500 (Eleanor of the Gone in 60 Seconds remake fame) , factory 
 output would only be 335hp. Additionally, the way in which horsepower is rated has been changed 
 multiple times since 1967, and the output on todays scale would likely be much lower. This may 
 seem like quibbling over minor details, but I feel it is a great indication of the lack of care 
 taken by the development team. Couldnt the designers have been bothered to take a moment and look 
 up the real-life hp ratings for each vehicle on-line? 
  It is the same lack of care mentioned above that is apparent throughout the game. This is juiced 
 real downfall. Had this game not been an obvious rush-job, it may have had potential, but as is 
 it has more fatal flaws than a Roger Corman film has plot holes. This title will, undoubtedly, 
 be in bargain bins soon (probably already is as I write this.) I would advise against purchase 
 of this game regardless of price, the time you take waiting for the game to install should be worth 
 more to you than this poor title ever could be.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: andry4n
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 22, 2005 11:56 am PT
Review:  the game's comprehensible, though i've find difficulties to play like the professional crews play. 
 there are some technicals difficulties in navigating the cars, especially there are no buttons 
 to control the rate of throttle and turning of the wheel, thus we cannot make a smooth ride in 
 the corner. actually, juiced is the most difficult racing game to navigate the vehicle, i only 
 can play up to class 4 smoothly. though i like the gameplay, there are crews, but that's not keep 
 us enough to awake or arouse again and again to play the game. when it's getting harder and harder, 
 it seems even boring not challenging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrHannibalSmith
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 17, 2005 8:45 am PT
Review:  Surprisingly good!
  
  I tought 2 years ago, Need For Speed will be best driving games, ever.
  Sad, no happened. Juiced 
 is a really car simulator, with a very nice graphic, no atom reactor needed to play, more cars 
 than perhaps in any games ever (not addon cars, originally in-game) , variously steerings, not much 
 but on a creative playground (a city) .
  
  Pink slip is one option that reminds me to MotorCity Online. That was fine, sad here no multiplay 
 option.
  
  Great cars, old ones and new ones, many famous of them. my favorite is the $2000 Civic :D small 
 car, but nice, old but fast..
  Nice that how many difference between front and rear-drive cars..
  but I think rear-drive ones 
 are a bit beyond control.
  Nice tuning options, but not much : (
  In this category NFS is the winner.
  
  Crash is really good but not enough, but that is what 
 we must to understand..
  After a little time managing with money is no problem, after a long time it is too easy :)
  
 
  I had half million dollars and half hundred pieces of "wrecks" :D
  But it is a good game to kill the time, AI is good, I love the game, but waiting for some updates, 
 or addons, or multiplay option.. 
  that's my opinion, thank you, Hannibal (from Hungary) , 2005.12.17 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 16, 2005 1:12 pm PT
Review:  A great racing game that takes on really damages as you take place in compition races or watch 
 from the side line.
  
  You can gamble before a race and choose a racer you want to bet against.
  If you win, you take 
 his cash and the prize money.
  If you lose, you hand over your cash and dont recieve any prize money.
  
  If you bashed your 
 car in race, you will have to take the the car in the garage and repair any additonal damages before 
 you can take another race, else if you race with a damaged car, you will lose the respect and probley 
 lose the race, so its a good idea to repair after each race.
  
  Anther good thing, you race for Pink Slips, win, collect there car, and race these or sell the 
 car and keep modding you original car that you beat him/she with.
  
  Fun Mulitiplayer online races, with pink slips.
  Real street conditions,
  Over 50 real cars 
 with over 100 mods and designs,
  Up to 6 multi-player races or race for pinks,
  Lead your own crew and members and race against other people on line.
  
  Additionaly, Gain 
 or lose the respect.
  
  Buy the game - gain the respect.
  Try this on the road - lose the respect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokuzero
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 4, 2005 3:17 am PT
Review:  There is nothing exceptionally bad about Juiced's design, nor is there anything laudable about 
 it. 
  The Good: Lots of licensed cars; team racing mechanic is interesting; technically proficient graphics; 
 good soundtrack. 
  The Bad: Driving model lacks any measure of excitement; car customization options are pretty lackluster; 
 career mode is deep but suffers from some frustrating design flaws; drab tracks and slightly strange-looking 
 car models; the style races aren't fun at all. 
  
  
  THQ's offering to the street racing genre, Juiced, was originally due out last year. The Juice 
 Games-developed racer had initially been picked up under the Acclaim banner, but once Acclaim's 
 bankruptcy became a sudden and immediate situation, Juiced was sold off and subsequently delayed. 
 Thus far Juiced is the only former Acclaim property to get picked up, though after playing it, 
 it's hard to understand what the attraction would have been for any publisher, let alone two different 
 ones over time. Juice Games has certainly made a competent arcade-style street racer, one with 
 a lengthy career mode and online play to boot; but that's all it is: competent. There is nothing 
 exceptionally bad about Juiced's design, nor is there anything laudable about it. It simply exists 
 in an inoffensive and unexciting realm of commonplaceness that makes it incapable of standing out 
 among the pack of infinitely better racers available for any of its chosen platforms. 
  
  
  Sorry Tupac fans, Juiced isn't a sequel to the 1992 Academy Award-winning street drama Juice. 
 
  Juiced's style of driving is more akin to the trafficless, cordoned-off track driving of something 
 like a Forza Motorsport or Gran Turismo game than the frenetic driving found in any of the Midnight 
 Club or Need for Speed Underground games, where you'd find yourself dodging traffic all while trying 
 to outwit the city's top street racers. However, the game's roster of cars is made up almost exclusively 
 of the kind of tuner rides you'd find in those games, and the driving is very much an arcade brand 
 of racing, rather than anything realistic. And therein lies the problem. The game tries to throw 
 you into a fast and loose style of driving in an overly controlled and generally bland track style. 
 The few instances of realism in the driving mechanics also rob it of some of its thrill, as you'll 
 have to carefully plot your turns so as to not wipe out (although you'll want to take the game's 
 braking advice with a grain of salt, as it is often inaccurate) , and bumping up against other cars 
 has a negative impact in multiple sections of the game, removing that kind of visceral thrill from 
 the picture. The races don't have a great sense of speed, so even when you're busting out with 
 your nitrous tank to blast past the competition, it comes off as pretty underwhelming. What you're 
 ultimately left with is a driving model that's off-kilter and generally not very exciting. 
  
  Most of the driving you'll be doing, at least in the early goings of Juiced, is in the career 
 mode. Here's where you'll be doing all the things you're generally supposed to do in a street racer: 
 buying cars, throwing down cash bets on races, occasionally racing for pink slips, and mostly just 
 trying to earn the respect of rival racing crews. Once you start a career, you begin by picking 
 out some crucial details, like your name and what licensed brand and model of cell phone you want 
 to use, and you are immediately challenged to a race by TK, the head of a crew called the Urban 
 Maulerz. Beat him, and you're on your way to purchasing your first ride. The initial selection 
 is scant, to say the least, but as you play, new cars will open up and become available in the 
 game's dealership. Half the point of the game is to build up your collection of cars and trick 
 them out in as many ways as you see fit. Unfortunately, the developers decided to make this a somewhat 
 frustrating process. 
  
  Cash is not an easy commodity to come by in Juiced. In the early sections of the game, your calendar 
 of upcoming race events is populated mostly with races that don't require an entry fee. That changes 
 rather quickly as you begin to upgrade your cars and get into events that require cars with higher 
 classifications. And even when you do participate in a free event, it's rarely free, as any damage 
 taken during a race translates into an upkeep fee that you'll have to pay to keep your ride in 
 perfect working order. The races become quite challenging as time goes on, so it becomes increasingly 
 impossible to have any expectation of coming away from a race with prize money. To try to counterbalance 
 this, you can attend events and place bets on who you think will win, or you can bet against other 
 racers in events you're participating in. You can even challenge crew leaders individually to pink 
 slip races, as well as some special challenges, which happen to be the only risk-free events in 
 the entire career mode. 
  
  
  Instead, it's a completely unremarkable street racer that's outclassed by just about everything 
 else currently on the market. 
  The problem is that apart from the individual challenges, none of these events or bets are any 
 easier, making it even more difficult to get ahead in the game's economic system. You can go from 
 having a nice cache of cars and a good wad of cash to practical bankruptcy over the course of just 
 a handful of races, all because you needed the money to upgrade your cars to win races but couldn't 
 upgrade because you couldn't win the races required to get the money, and you lost cash in the 
 process. It's a vicious circle. Of course, it isn't impossible to succeed in Juiced's career mode, 
 but it's a more frustrating process than it ought to be. 
  
  It might be a frustration worth dealing with if the career mode had anything more to it than it 
 does. Apart from a couple of unique things, for the most part you'll be running circuit, point-to-point, 
 and sprint races over and over again. The couple of unique events are an interesting touch, but 
 neither is really that great in the long run. The first thing is the game's team element, which 
 plays into team race events. Racing crews are more than just a logo and a name in Juiced, as you'll 
 be able to pick up somewhat generic racers to join up with you and race alongside you. During single-entrant 
 events, you can opt to have one of your drivers race for you to gain some experience in the process, 
 and during team events, the winner is determined by the team that has all its cars across the finish 
 line first. 
  
  While that all sounds well and good, the mechanic itself is woefully underdeveloped. Having guys 
 race for you in certain events is neat, but there's no way to bypass the race itself or even speed 
 it up, so you have to sit through one boring CPU-controlled race after another if you want to up 
 your team's skills. During team races, you have the ability to control the aggression level of 
 your teammates, but only to a minimal degree, and most times you'll be better off just leaving 
 the setting on high, since otherwise your team tends to underperform. 
  
  
  Juiced's driving style tries to tow a weird line between arcade and realism, and the result is 
 more dull and unwieldy than anything else. 
  The other unique event Juiced has to offer is a sort of style-based mode where the whole point 
 is to drive around, performing various moves and ultimately impressing the crowd, thus earning 
 you a higher score. While, again, that sounds neat in theory, there isn't a lot you can do here. 
 The tricks range from donuts and 360 spins to just achieving high levels of speed and drifting. 
 In fact, you mostly earn your points by how tricked-out your car is. Cars with more mods and customizations 
 earn higher score multipliers, thus making it a lot easier to get points. What's doubly distressing 
 is that this is the only serious motivation in the game to focus on customizing your cars, as the 
 game just doesn't have a spectacular variety of customizable items. It might have been a more impressive 
 roster, say, a year ago, when the game was originally supposed to come out. But with games like 
 Need for Speed Underground 2 and Midnight Club 3 around, the customization list pales by comparison. 
 
  
  Apart from the career mode, the game features a simple arcade mode, a custom race builder, and 
 multiplayer. The arcade mode and the custom race mode are pretty self-explanatory, and neither 
 is good for more than an hour or two of distraction, at best. The multiplayer on consoles comes 
 in split-screen, system link, and online varieties, and it fares a bit better. The online lets 
 you play both custom and career races, and in the career races you can use your career mode cars 
 and teammates. The online performance is just fine, and the mode itself is decent enough for an 
 online racer, but it doesn't have many features beyond simple competitive racing. Incidentally, 
 the PC version lacks the split-screen functionality, though that's hardly surprising. 
  
  Juiced isn't a bad-looking game for the most part, though it has some quirks that drag down its 
 visual presentation. The biggest offender is the tracks, which are beyond repetitive. Every street 
 environment looks exactly the same, as do the few other varieties of environments, so no matter 
 what track you're on, they all might as well be the same one. Also, the tracks are pretty archaic 
 looking, like something you might have seen a couple of years ago in a racing game. The cars are 
 definitely better, but even they have a slightly weird look that doesn't quite look right when 
 compared against the real-life car models. There aren't any technical issues to speak of in the 
 game, as the frame rate holds steady on all three versions, and apart from some jerkiness when 
 your car shifts, the race camera works fine. The PC version is decidedly less impressive looking 
 than the console versions, simply because it looks just like the Xbox version with only a marginally 
 cleaner look. 
  
  
  There's something slightly off about the car models that makes them look more generic than they 
 ought to. 
  The audio is pretty much more of the same. The car sounds come off as generic, and the few scattered 
 bits of voice acting that come from the crew leaders isn't very good. However, on the plus side, 
 the soundtrack is enjoyable. Featuring name artists like Xzibit, Paul Oakenfold, Dub Pistols, and 
 Kasabian, as well as a lot of stuff you've probably never heard of, the soundtrack fits the scope 
 of the game nicely and rarely sounds incorrect for the style the game is going for. And, of course, 
 Xbox owners can always use their own custom soundtracks. 
  
  In the end, it's hard to understand what, if anything, the developers of Juiced did with that extra 
 year between publishers. The whole thing feels antiquated to the point of obsolescence, and the 
 few interesting things the game does to try to set itself apart are counteracted by stupid problems 
 that seem like they could easily have been fixed with just a slightly different design philosophy. 
 As it is, there's no shortage of street racing games on consoles, and even on the PC, where the 
 competition is less of a factor, Juiced does very little to impress. Regardless of your platform 
 of choice, Juiced isn't worth your time. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: asestar
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 13, 2005 3:18 am PT
Review:  After playing Juiced for two days, i am convinced it is lot better game than most reviewers think. 
 Comparing it to need for speed underground games is tempting, but it is like comparing a photoshopped 
 picture to real person.
  
  Graphics are for the most part, awesome. Racing games are all about cars, and car models here are 
 both plenty and varied. Some trully awesome reflection and paint options, which nfs-u can only 
 hope to match. You race a track on different lighting conditions, which is a nice touch and gives 
 sense or realism. There is however, no traffic and no "life" to tracks. Lack of trees and other 
 small road side objects is very noticable too. One problem is the Lense flare option, it makes 
 graphics look pixelated and blurry even when standing still, so I turned it off. Skid marks while 
 accelerating and braking are missing for some reason. But the damage model is functional and particle 
 system is good too. Cars look absolutely stunning, far better than in nfs-u.
  
  Interface graphics, like videos and icons appear very ugly. As if someone resized them without 
 any filtering. Overall, if there were clear videos and skidmarks (and a few more objects on tracks) 
 i'd give it a 10. Control scheme is fairly good as default. I used Logitech Rumblepad and Momo 
 Force racing wheel, and in both cases, i had to decrease sensitivity quite a notch to play. Controls 
 could be a bit better, cars handle a bit loosely. But you get used to it.
  
  Sound effects are okay.. but slightely weaker compared to nfs-u. All cars have distinct engine 
 sounds, you can select car horn and that's about it. Music is pretty good, with some rather wicked 
 rap songs. However, soundtrack is a bit short, and ability to have different songs for menu and 
 racing is lacking.
  
  Gameplay is where this game really shine .. or lacks. Basically, it is awesome. You get to do a 
 LOT more than just race from a to b. And the racing envoirnment filled with different characters 
 feel a lot more alive here. Your actions during racing determine how much respect you get. Do not 
 expect to get applaud if you slam into opponent's car's. Racing modes are a lot more realistic 
 and thanks to the damage model, you can no longer rely on "crash to brake" tactics. Which makes 
 racing that much intense.
  
  However, there are some problems with this game. Mainly the computer AI is extremely good. The 
 amount you bet combined with horsepower difference can make same opponent completely different! 
 Let's say if opponent's MR2 is 198hp, and you drive a 206 with 150hp; at bets around 2500-3000 
 you can fairly easily win. But you have to work REAL hard if you had bet like 10000-24000 .. This 
 makes perfect sense too.. no one wanna risk their car for a lousy bet, but if bet is more than 
 your car's worth, they'd put it all on stakes and try to win. So yeah, its fair as long as you 
 too can put your skills to the test. If only cars handled bit more responsively. 
  That one spin during a turn can cause you race, and possibly your car if going for pink slips.
 
  
  "There are not enough tweaking options" is a common statement about juiced. I do not agree with 
 that. Sure, you can not add roof scoops or change side mirrors, but it offers you ride hight selection, 
 ECU tuning (change horsepower to compete in different catagories) gearbox ratios and user defined 
 3-layersd colors! 
  
  This game is an attempt to put back what was missing from need for speed underground series.. depth! 
 It tries to combine gameplay depth from Nfs-Porsche 2000 (best racing game ever imho) with visuals 
 and street racing theme of NFS-u. And in my oppinion it achieves most of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gackt_2305
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 9, 2005 7:28 pm PT
Review:  gee, this game is not worth buying, worth borrowing perhaps but not buying.
  
  i explain why :
  1. bad IA com when the car crashed
  2. if we betting we can 100% win, there 
 is winning pattern (see easy money cheat)
  3. bad driving controls
  4. there is now way dodge viper can be that hard to drive
  5. 2cd only for movie.
  6. the grapich 
 is poor, too dark and if you brighten it out you get to 0bright and still dark (dont get it? try 
 it your self.)
  7. the soundtrack didn't kill the speakers, most of the soundtrack is pop.
  we need a pump adrenalin soundtrack ( try nfsu 1 and 2)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gkraju
Rating: 4.8
Date: Oct 23, 2005 10:52 am PT
Review:  Juiced is a copy of the NFSUG2. But it definetely falls short of UG2 by huge margin. The gameplay 
 is poor and strange. The graphics are poor. However the good part is the sound, Iiked it and felt 
 it is better than UG2. The intro of the game gives a great feeling and sets the ride mood though 
 it is a copy from the film 2 fast 2 furious but there is no such substance in the game. The cars 
 have weird physics and do not look real. Overall the game looks just decent but definetly not moneys 
 worth. This game can be avoided easily without any second thoughts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lone_gunman16
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 22, 2005 10:06 am PT
Review:  Juiced isn't as bad as many people think it is. Even though there are a few minor flaws (brake 
 now comes up too early, etc.) this is still a solid game. 
  
  A big selection of cars from all eras, which is enough to make just about any one happy. If tricked 
 out tuners aren't your style, then there are plenty of All-American muscle cars to be found, and 
 vice versa.
  
  Tuning options are pretty cool, but you have to both have them unlocked AND have money to buy them. 
 I like the different after market parts manufacter's options. Buying a certain part from one may 
 give you extremely good acceleration, whereas the same part from another company may give you a 
 balance of fairly good acceleration and a bit higher top speed, or the same part from a different 
 manufacter may give you the best top speed, but no acclereration. The same level parts will also 
 cost different. This is to reflect how much you are willing to spend to upgrade. The more you spend, 
 the better quality the part, therefore you get the best of what the part offers for that particular 
 level. I. E. buying a low end part will give you only a little bit of acceleration and top speed, 
 but buying the high end part will give you the best for that level.
  
  Most of the cars handle true to their real-life counterparts, but a few don't. Some don't like 
 to take corners, whereas sometimes you can take the exact same corner twice in a race, do everything 
 the same, yet end up with 2 different senarios. 
  
  My only concerns are with the respect system. I took damage from a racer who hit me, yet I was 
 penalized with both having to repair my car with my own money that I had won from the race, AND 
 lost respect for that racers, because HE hit ME.
  
  My suggestion: If you can find it for $20.00, go for it. It is well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stage_2
Rating: 4.9
Date: Oct 16, 2005 1:12 am PT
Review:  I seriuously wanted to like this game, but the bugs and the lack of variety just kill the joy, 
 the gameplay (in race) nothing particullary shocking about it. It's just like every other racing 
 game but buggier and less exciting, the AI is pretty bad, it's not suprising to see some of the 
 other competitors stuck into walls, a good example of how bad it is is watching a Computer vs. 
 Computer race, it's hillarious. 
  
  Despite its flaws it has a few interesting features, like the respect system, you need to earn 
 respect with a group of different characters on different aspects, and the event system, either 
 custom or pre-set. But still, compared to NFSU, this game loses the race many seconds behind, it 
 lacks of appeal & style to provide 'funfactor'.
  
  There's no excuse for a game being in development for so long to result like this. 
  
  In conclusion, 
 Juiced is not worth the money, should have been a budget game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bandit_Jing
Rating: 4.3
Date: Oct 14, 2005 10:21 pm PT
Review:  Its had some potential as did NFSU when it started. but i needed those key points like the storyline 
 and how it progresses through the game. In Juiced it all based on ur Crew... and theres nothing 
 fun about that.
  
  the customization was a little off from NFSU and SRS but still i has it key points like the color 
 schemes. over all i think it could of been better if it had a story and didnt focus on the crews 
 so much. it get boring after a while. i ended up smashing my car up just to see if the bumbers 
 could come off and sadly they didnt. it just looked like it was done half-@$$. so stick the original.
 
  
  NFSU and NFSU2. NFSU2 is best. i just wished the Honda S2K would come out. or even an NSX. hopefully 
 in NFSMW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sykalob
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 4, 2005 7:05 pm PT
Review:  at first im a one the big fans who like racing and driving games .. but this game is a failure .. just 
 it .. the only thing u may get is the graphics but its the worse driving game i ever seen .. just 
 bad bad bad controls .. they try to do like GTR .. and NFS series ... just no idea in it nothing special 
 in this game .. i prefer to play flatout game than it .. why cause at least it have idea in it .. this 
 game is zero ,, .. just idiots who did it who can describe it ... i was shcoked when i saw it cause 
 it was the worse... save your money,. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrBiohazard
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 30, 2005 8:02 am PT
Review:  Juiced seems to have received a pretty low rating, both from the community and GameSpot. It's really 
 not as bad as people seem to think! I think however, it depends on what you're expecting from the 
 game and whether or not you thought Fast and the Furious was a decent movie!
  
  I personally thought Fast and the Furious was a pretty cool movie. It was far fetched, plot less 
 and has some pretty bad acting (apart from Vin!!) but it was just worth the watch if you wanted 
 some mindless car action! I think the same applies to Juiced. So what if there isn't really a plot 
 or a story behind it.. the fact is, you can pimp your car to the max and get some fun driving in 
 whilst you're at it !
  
  The physics in the game are pretty real too, it's easily as nice to drive the cars in Juiced as 
 it is in Project Gotham Racing. The different types of street races make it a varied game... I 
 could spend days just driving up and down a strip doing 360's and doughnuts !
  
  My recommendation is.. buy it ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dale8736
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jun 25, 2005 8:45 am PT
Review:  I hate to give a review that tells about the flaws that this game has but the game did have potential. 
 The first thing I noticed about the game was that it froze at the loading screen... But that was 
 the worst I don't like the menus vital information that is displayed is to small to see and even 
 on a large Television, the menus also needed to be polished up quite allot. 
  
  Now onto the game play I started by creating a new career but was surprised by the lack of variety 
 that is available to the first car you purchase I mean this is the start of the game you need something 
 fresh and exiting to get you hooked from first touch. 
  The cars that where available were just plain cars that you would usually see broken down on the 
 side of the Inter-State Highway this was very disappointing to see. 
  
  And considering I am a car buff and own most popular Street Racing games and other car games alike. 
 And unfortunately this title took no ideas that other street racing titles have and used them besides 
 the fact that it has multiplayer capabilities. I have to say that this is one of the biggest letdowns 
 in a game I have ever experienced, And I was looking forward to this title from the beginning. 
 
  
  My last verdict If you are looking for a game that falls under the genre of street racing look 
 elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajbm5g
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 20, 2005 2:09 pm PT
Review:  I was waiting for this game ever since it was announced. What I don't get is why THQ didn't release 
 this game earlier. I don't see any improvements THQ made to it that the previous developer did, 
 I don't remember who it was. The game is all hype and no action. The game seems like a low budget 
 game. They should've release this earlier when this kind of technology may have made a greater 
 impression.
  
  The sound is absolutely pathetic. The engine noises are generic. The music is decent, although 
 more tracks should've been added. The voices in the game are very little and very annoying. The 
 graphics are pretty bland. The cars look superficial somehow. They have a sort of odd look that 
 makes them look unrealistic. The visual effects aren't amazing in this age of graphics technology. 
 The little clips in the game are way too compressed and very unrealistic. The gameplay is satisfactory 
 at best. There's a good amount of cars. But barely any choices in terms of mods for cars. Oddly 
 enough, the game uses tracks instead of a virtual city like MC3 and NFSU2, which takes away the 
 feeling of being a street racer. The betting system in the game is very redundant. You almost always 
 lose a bet when you don't play in the race. And usually the computer players will always react 
 a lot more aggressively when you placed a bet on a race you're in. I was rather disappointed in 
 this release.
  
  The multiplayer is probably a better part of the game. You can race with people all over the world. 
 You can even race for pink slips with other players. There's a simple ranking system in the game. 
 But the problem here is, surprise surprise, not many people play the game, so you'll be waiting 
 for the few servers to empty, or wait for others to join your server.
  
  There are a number of errors in the game, as if it were a beta release than the actual release. 
 The developers obviously rushed the project, even though they released it a year after its due 
 date. You'll also notice that the game is not very CPU intensive. That may be a bonus for some, 
 but considering the bad use of sound and graphics technology it's not a surprise. My advice is 
 keep away from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thef8lfox
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 15, 2005 5:22 am PT
Review:  When Juiced was first announced last year, I made sure I checked out the demo and I was impressed 
 with what I saw, after all how many good racing games have come out for the PC in the past few 
 years? However, 8 months and a few hiccups later, the game dissapoints on all fronts.
  
  The gameplay is mildly exciting at best. The career mode has no real storyline and all you are 
 doing is race after race without any real sense of direction. The handling of the cars is horrible; 
 cars handle the same at 100mph as they do at 25mph and the oversteer really gets annoying after 
 a few races. It is ridiculously easy to lose money in this game, this doesn't seem to be a problem 
 early on in the game with free races, but later on it comes back to bite you in the rear end. If 
 you lose enough money, and believe me you will, you are pretty much "stuck" until you can find 
 a free race on the calender, which can take forever.
  
  It seems that in the 8 month wait all THQ managed to do was slap a few intro videos together and 
 not much else. Not only are they missing the big picture but they mess up the smaller aspects of 
 the game too. For example when u try to change your control configuration, the game minimizes and 
 it launches another utility so that you can change your controls; there is no ingame control config 
 menu and to make things worse, instead of assigning keys to controls, your assigning controls to 
 keys... so basically they have all the alphanumeric characters and u have to choose what control 
 goes to what character. On the brighter side, the online mode of the game seems to hold up well, 
 you can race for pink slips as well as the standard race modes.
  
  The graphics in the game are pretty darn good, the cars look a little dithered at times but other 
 than that, the environment and the rest seem well crafted. The sound of the engines and environments 
 leave much to be desired although the game does feature a nice soundtrack.
  
  All in all, Juiced just tries to do different things to the racing genre, but it just ends up taking 
 things away from the racing experience. Sitting around and watching your "crew" race isn't exactly 
 my idea of fun. It is not really hard to do well in the racing genre especially for the PC since 
 there are very few games competing, if Juiced had stuck to the racing element of things rather than 
 all the other distractions in the game, this one would have turned out much better. It would have 
 also helped if the game kept it's initial release date rather than being released months after 
 NFSU2 and other racers. In the end it just ends up looking like a carbon copy of earlier racing 
 games with annoyances thrown in. The game is worth checking out if you are a racing fan and have 
 run out of options for PC games. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
