-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Jumpgate: The Reconstruction Initiative
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/jumpgatetheri/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 19, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.6
Critic Score: 7.6, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 51 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 3DO
Developer: NetDevil
Genre: Space Combat Sim
Date:     Sep 23, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Jumpgate is a deep, well-designed game that incorporates the best elements of space-combat simulations 
 and role-playing games. 

 The proliferation and popularity of online role-playing games has created a great desire for similar 
 games in other genres. So it was no surprise that many fans of space combat simulations were frustrated 
 and disappointed when Origin Systems canceled its online version of Wing Commander. But these fans 
 should stop complaining -- and start installing Jumpgate. Jumpgate is more than just an online space 
 combat game; it successfully incorporates the trading elements of Elite and Privateer, the combat 
 elements of Freespace and Wing Commander, a lighter version of Independence War's realistic physics, 
 and all the level-gaining and experience bonuses that make online role-playing games so addictive. 
           Pilots will spend most of their time traveling from station to station.    

  When you first start out, you might think that such praise is not only unwarranted, but also even 
 misguided. One of Jumpgate's major problems is that the game's opening levels are tedious. Your 
 first ship is slow, you can't effectively engage in combat, and you'll spend the majority of your 
 time going between the few space stations you can travel to with some degree of safety. Unlike 
 in other online role-playing games, you don't even have the benefit of exploring. You're in space, 
 and apart from the occasional pretty nebula, you're going to be staring at inky blackness and holding 
 down the afterburner button for your first 10 hours.   

  This is a substantial problem, and one that NetDevil, the developer of Jumpgate, has already taken 
 steps to alleviate. It has promised more improvements to the early game, which seems like one of 
 the best things about Jumpgate. In fact, NetDevil seems to have ignored the precedent set by other 
 online game developers -- it is not only actively seeking to help players with problems, but also 
 consistently improving and tweaking for the better with every patch.   

  Once you get past the game's initially slow start, you'll find that Jumpgate offers a great deal 
 of variety. You can play as a fighter, a trader, a miner, or any combination thereof. The economy 
 and political system of the game is completely dynamic, and the actions of players determine everything 
 from the types of equipment available at every station to the attitude of different factions toward 
 one another. It's complex and deep and yet easy to grasp from the get-go.   

  When you begin, you first choose your faction. There are five groups that make up The Reconstruction 
 Initiative, a tentative alliance of groups under attack by a mysterious alien race known as the 
 conflux. You can join three of these factions: Octavius, Quantar, and Solrain. The other two, Hyperial 
 and Amananth, will require your assistance, but you can't join them. After setting up your account, 
 you board your starter ship and get started on missions.   

  There are numerous types of missions in Jumpgate, and the mission structure allows for a great 
 deal of flexibility and input on your part. You choose which station you are headed for and what 
 type of mission you'd like, and you'll be assigned one that meets your needs. Missions can include 
 hauling cargo, mining for resources, killing conflux, or transporting important documents from 
 one station to another. There are also faction missions and TRI missions, which benefit your group 
 or the Initiative. These missions are one of the more interesting aspects, as they take a massive 
 group effort to complete. With each, the reward is more than money and experience for those involved. 
 Once a faction mission is completed, new equipment or ships will be available, while TRI missions 
 are used to advance the game's ongoing story.           Docking with a station takes time and practice. 
    

  Each type of mission is crucial to the game. Mining missions are required to provide the basic 
 components needed for production at the different stations. Combat missions keep the trading channels 
 clear. A station cannot produce equipment unless the station has the necessary components, so cargo 
 missions not only give you a bit of money, but also make sure that necessary ship upgrades and 
 weapons are being produced. You can also haul commodities and kill enemies at your own discretion. 
 For instance -- you might really want a certain kind of power plant for your ship, but there aren't 
 any at the Solrain stations where they're produced.   

  This is just scratching the surface of Jumpgate's intricate production and economic model. There 
 are hundreds of different commodities and equipment types in the game, and the savvy trader can 
 help his faction make sure it has the strongest equipment available, as well as make a bundle in 
 the process.    

 The political structure is equally dynamic. Attacking another player unprovoked will affect your 
 reputation not only with that player, but also with his faction; plus, it will push your respective 
 factions closer to war. A bounty will automatically be placed on your head, and other players will 
 be rewarded for hunting you down. You can improve your reputation with other factions by completing 
 missions for them, and getting a high political rating with another faction will lower the taxes 
 you pay for commodities at its stations.           There are a wide variety of mission types available. 
    

  It seems very dry in theory, but it's interesting in practice. Every individual player's actions 
 have a noticeable impact on the game, and this makes the universe of Jumpgate seem much more alive 
 than in other massively multiplayer games. Luckily, the community of Jumpgate players, though seemingly 
 small, is helpful and active. Most players are eager to assist those in need or danger, and they're 
 pretty gung-ho when it comes to getting work done for the team.   

  Players don't have complete control of the game. Though the story has yet to really get going, 
 players who participated in the beta will be more than willing to share war stories of huge in-game 
 battles, faction wars, and game-altering events. NetDevil reportedly has many twists and turns 
 planned for the future, and it will be interesting to see how the already dynamic universe changes 
 over the coming months.   

  If this sounds more like a role-playing game than a space sim, that's because Jumpgate is very 
 heavily indebted to the online role-playing games that inspired it. You gain experience for completing 
 missions or earning medals, and with enough experience, you gain levels. Gaining levels gives you 
 access to more powerful ships, ship components, and weapons. Eventually, you'll be ready for combat, 
 either against the conflux or other players. Fighting the conflux is what you'd expect from a space 
 combat simulator, and you'll get a good deal of money and a bit of experience for each kill. Fighting 
 other players is another story, and in unregulated space -- or if you choose to fly for your faction's 
 Honor Guard -- you can kill or be killed without punishment. Player-vs.-player combat is a good way 
 to test your flight skills and pick up some techniques that other pilots have mastered.   

  There are definitely techniques to fighting and flying. Jumpgate is a bit more complex than your 
 typical space combat simulation in that turning and stopping are based in small part on the actual 
 properties of inertia in a vacuum. You have brakes, which will help slow you down, but learning 
 to control the more powerful ships, especially the enormous cargo ships, can take time. Luckily, 
 Jumpgate includes a simulator that lets you try out any ship with any equipment configuration in 
 a variety of situations.           The mysterious conflux will be the primary recipient of your 
 aggression.    

  Fans of space combat simulations will undoubtedly be a bit disappointed by Jumpgate's technical 
 elements. The graphics, while good, are a bit simple and nothing compared with the dramatic visuals 
 of more recent games in the genre. The jumpgates -- portals that take you from one sector of space 
 to the next -- are nice-looking balls of light. But the rest of the game -- ships, stations, and the 
 like -- are a bit plain. This is undoubtedly an important part of reducing latency, but it's too 
 bad nonetheless. The sound effects are good if typical, and the music is a good blend of subtle 
 techno and John Williams-inspired grandiosity.   

  The technical elements are only a slight drawback in a game that is otherwise great. Hopefully, 
 Jumpgate will get the kind of player base required to give the game long-term viability. But if 
 it doesn't, that's through no fault of its own. Jumpgate is a deep, well-designed game that incorporates 
 the best elements of space combat simulations and role-playing games. It's rewarding to those who 
 want to learn the complex interdependencies of the game's universe, as well as to those who just 
 want to get in a spaceship and shoot some things. And it will only get better as the story unfolds, 
 as the political ties weaken, and as the in-game events add new elements to an already fun and 
 interesting game.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: illuminutty
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 9, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  This game may seem like the panacea to any Elite or Privateer fan, but it's just a time-trap. 
 
  
  You will spend about 40 hours getting to a level where you can get into a decent fighter and buy 
 so-so equipment. To have some fat level 50 (highest level) yahoo literally blow your ship and equipment 
 to dust in three shots because his guns are 20 times as powerful as yours and your shields are 
 basically worthless against all that firepower.
  
  The physics system may seem nice, fly in one direction then pivot to shoot behind you while your 
 ship still mores in the initial direction unless you fire your engines to change that... All is 
 nice while you're doing anything but dogfighting, because once you do, you're basically going to 
 not be able to maneuver enough to evade fire or get out of the level 50's sights with any time 
 or integrity to shoot back and do any worthwhile damage at all.
  
  There's the principal flaw, which I hope will be addressed in the new version, JumpGate Evolution. 
 Otherwise they can kiss me and my ass goodbye like they did with this 2001 version of Jumpgate.
 
  
  I simply will not put real time effort, which equals money) into my level equipment and ship to 
 have some 13 year old yahoo that LIVES in the game and has the utmost in firepower, blow me away 
 in 2 seconds.. no way Jose, that ain't happening! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 19, 2006 11:17 am PT
Review:  Jumpgate's title alone isn't very descriptive, so I'll take you on a short tour of the game, pausing 
 to point out strengths, flaws and potential, then leave it to you to draw your own conclusions. 
 In short, Jumpgate is sort of like the old BBS game Tradewars. You have a ship, you belong to a 
 faction, and the goal of the game is to make money and gain rank by completing missions. You choose 
 what missions to take and where to go and the game is almost completely open-ended, which is good 
 and bad. Good because it allows you the freedom to play the way you want, and bad because new players 
 will always find such a system daunting. 3DO has gone out of their way to make it seem less so, 
 however, by including an offline simulator. Even with that addition, Jumpgate is not kind to newbies. 
 As with the real thing, a simple slip-up will have you floating home in an escape pod. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
