-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Jurassic Park: Operation Genesis
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/jurassicparkoperationgenesis/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 20, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 7.3, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 861 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: VU Games
Developer: Blue Tongue
Genre: Business Strategy
Date:     Mar 10, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Jurassic Park: Operation Genesis is an enjoyable game that should appeal to dinosaur buffs and park 
 simulation fans alike, thanks to its attractive graphics engine, unique features, and surprising 
 gameplay depth. 

  Amusement park simulations are among the best-selling games on the PC market today. Their popularity 
 should come as no surprise, because these simulations can appeal to such a broad audience -- men, 
 women, and children alike. What is surprising is that almost all games based on the Jurassic Park 
 license to date have been action games, while the premise of the original movie was the creation 
 of the world's greatest zoological park. Universal Interactive has finally taken the logical step 
 with Jurassic Park: Operation Genesis, a strategy game that lets players create and manage a dinosaur 
 zoo. Jurassic Park: Operation Genesis is an enjoyable game that should appeal to dinosaur buffs 
 and park simulation fans alike, thanks to its attractive graphics engine, unique features, and 
 surprising gameplay depth.           The game allows a very wide field of view.    

  Operation Genesis' 3D graphics engine does an excellent job of rendering the lush terrain of a 
 tropical island. The dinosaur models are very detailed, allowing players who have even a passing 
 knowledge of paleontology to immediately spot the differences between similar-looking dinosaurs 
 such as the brachiosaurus and the camarasaurus (also known as the brontosaurus) . The models are 
 also scaled accurately -- small velociraptors are dwarfed by the much larger tyrannosaurs, for instance. 
 Weather effects like rain, wind, lightning, and tornadoes add to the overall effect. The engine 
 lets you rotate your view in any direction and also has a wide range of zoom, so you can get in 
 close to examine individual dinosaurs, or get a much wider view to manage your park comfortably. 
 Though Operation Genesis also has special effects like reflective water, we found that the game 
 had a tendency to lock up with the more advanced graphics settings turned on. Fortunately, the 
 game still looks good even at a medium level of detail, though the game's dinosaur animations still 
 aren't particularly smooth.   

  Operation Genesis sounds almost as good as it looks. Each of the game's dinosaurs lets out different 
 types of noises, depending on whether it's playing, hunting, sick, or frightened. Your park advisors 
 provide some audio cues, and they even visually resemble the actors from the original movie (though 
 their voices are provided by stand-ins) . The in-game music is the very same score written by John 
 Williams for the original Jurassic Park film. Williams' songs do contribute to the game's atmosphere, 
 but die-hard fans of Mr. Williams' music may be disappointed to find that the game doesn't use 
 CD-quality recordings of the tracks.   

  Operation Genesis' interface is probably its weakest aspect. The game's mouse control is imprecise, 
 so you'll sometimes click on the wrong button. Also, the game provides no way to cycle between 
 the different dinosaurs in your zoo, which can make trying to keep track of them more annoying 
 than it should be. Picking out larger dinosaurs is easy because they're so large, but some of the 
 smaller ones like velociraptors can be hard to spot from a zoomed-out view. Thankfully, you can 
 see the location of all your dinosaurs on the game's minimap, but the game probably could've benefited 
 from a "cycle to next dinosaur" button. The game's interface also has no quick buttons to bring 
 up your park map, so if you spend most of your time controlling the game with your mouse, you'll 
 have to reach back to your keyboard and hit the Tab key to bring up this important screen.   

 
  The gameplay in Operation Genesis revolves around creating a park full of dinosaurs for your visitors. 
 The game provides several different kinds of challenges. First, you'll need to create secure enclosures 
 that provide a safe environment for both dinosaurs and park visitors. To keep your park secure, 
 you'll need to build electric fences of varying strength, security cameras, ranger stations, and 
 even sentry guns. Tornadoes and rampaging dinosaurs can cause breaches in the fencing and also 
 damage buildings, but thankfully, the game's map interface makes it easy to spot any holes in your 
 defenses.           Using the viewing towers from the first-person mode is a great tool.    

  Secondly, you'll need some dinosaurs -- unlike games such as Zoo Tycoon, in which you simply purchase 
 animals, Operation Genesis requires you to literally build your menagerie from scratch. You'll 
 hire fossil-hunting teams in various parts of the world and then place them at dig sites to seek 
 out dinosaur bones or amber. You'll then send the artifacts to your genetics lab, where you'll 
 extract DNA until you have enough of one species' genome to create a dinosaur from a hatchery. 
 Though it's possible to create a dinosaur with only a 50-percent-completed genome, he won't live 
 long -- the more complete a genome you have, the longer your dinosaur will live. This contributes 
 to the game's strategy, because it costs you time (and money, if you choose to buy fossils and 
 amber from the fossil market) to find more pieces for a particular species of dinosaur. However, 
 the time you put into completing a genome results in a longer-lived investment, since hatching 
 a dinosaur costs a lot of money as well.     

  There are 25 different dinosaurs in Operation Genesis, each with its own unique behavior patterns 
 and popularity rating among visitors. Keeping your dinosaurs happy is a complicated process. You'll 
 be able to build feeding stations where herbivores can get bales of plant feed, while carnivores 
 are fed live cows or goats. Watching a carnivore hunt hapless livestock is one of the more amusing 
 parts of the game. However, your herbivores become unhappy if they don't have enough trees around 
 them or enough nearby dinosaur friends to socialize with. Likewise, your carnivores have an innate 
 desire to hunt other dinosaurs, so even a constant stream of cows isn't going to keep them happy. 
 Thankfully, the game comes with a detailed "dinopedia" that tells you which other species your 
 herbivores can be friends with, and which dinosaurs your carnivores prefer to hunt. Keeping all 
 these details in mind is part of the fun and strategy of building a successful park. Aside from 
 keeping your dinosaurs fed and happy, you'll need to worry about six different possible diseases. 
 Vaccines for these dinosaur diseases are part of your research tree, and since the diseases are 
 often contagious, it's useful to keep a small pen as a quarantine area to move sick dinosaurs to 
 while you research a cure.           Some missions require you to take photographs of dangerous 
 dinosaurs.    

  Making park visitors happy is the other half of the equation in running a successful dinosaur zoo. 
 There are four primary types of visitors: mainstream consumers, who are easily amused; thrill seekers, 
 who enjoy seeing carnivores hunt; fun lovers, who like seeing herbivores play in large herds; and 
 dino nerds, who are the most demanding and become upset if dinosaurs from different eras are kept 
 in the same pen (this obscure information is also kept in the dinopedia) . The visitors also have 
 standard needs, so you'll want to build basic amenities like restaurants and benches.   

  The most challenging aspect of Operation Genesis is creating your park in such a way that your 
 dinosaurs can be seen by the visitors. There are only a few types of structures you can build for 
 visitors to see dinosaurs. These include viewing vents, which are built into the fences; viewing 
 towers; and viewing domes, which are built into the ground inside of dinosaur pens and accessed 
 by tunnels. One of the most impressive features in the game is the ability to get into a viewing 
 vent or dome yourself and see what your visitors can see. Sometimes a tree may be blocking a vent, 
 or you may have placed a tower too far away from centers of dinosaur activity -- getting into these 
 structures in the first-person mode can give you clues as to why specific vents and domes are popular 
 or unpopular.   

  The most unique features in Operation Genesis are the ranger helicopter, the land-cruiser safari 
 tour, and the hot-air balloon tour. Every ranger station you build in the game comes with a helicopter 
 that you can control. In a helicopter, you have the ability to perform a number of tasks, such 
 as lowering a rescue winch to pick up lost visitors, using a herding device to herd wayward packs 
 of dinosaurs, and shooting dinosaurs in the first-person mode. You're not always shooting to kill -- sometimes 
 you'll need to vaccinate your animals, and this is done by firing darts from a helicopter. But 
 once in a while, you'll find a pack of carnivores on a rampage, and that leaves you no choice but 
 to kill them all by sniping them from the ranger helicopter. And if you don't want to get your 
 hands dirty, the game lets you assign ranger helicopter tasks to the AI, which does a competent 
 job of hunting and shooting.   

  The safari tour and balloon rides are similar to the viewing structures because they feature a 
 first-person perspective that lets you get closer looks at the dinosaurs. In the case of the safari 
 tour, you have control over the vehicle and where you drive, though you need to be careful, because 
 angry dinosaurs can smash the car. The balloon is a safer ride, and it's even possible to snap 
 photographs while on a balloon tour. Each photo is assigned a score depending on composition and 
 the number of species in the photo. From time to time, your park's public relations manager will 
 sell the photographs to a magazine, which is another revenue stream for the park.   

  Operation Genesis has three modes of play. One of these is a set of a dozen action-oriented missions 
 in which you sit in the land rover or the helicopter and kill rampaging carnivores, rescue park 
 patrons, or herd loose herbivores into a pen within a specific time limit. These missions are extremely 
 easy and can be beaten in a matter of minutes. There are also "exercises" that offer more open-ended 
 play, like building a park with a set of specific goals that must be achieved, such as displaying 
 specific species or achieving high popularity scores on certain rides. Finally, the game includes 
 a sandbox mode, which allows you to create your own island to build on.           When dinosaurs 
 go on a rampage, you're forced to kill them.    

  Even though children will be attracted to Operation Genesis because it has dinosaurs, parents should 
 take note of the ESRB "T for Teen" rating on the box. There's some blood in the game -- carnivores 
 can kill livestock, other dinosaurs, or park visitors if they get loose. You'll also need to put 
 down rogue dinosaurs from time to time by shooting them. The violence is never gratuitous, but 
 parents may want to consider these facts before getting this game for a young child. For dinosaur 
 fans who are mature enough, Jurassic Park: Operation Genesis provides an enjoyable experience, 
 with attractive graphics, strategic gameplay, and unique features that provide up-close looks at 
 the dinosaurs in action.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (27 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Fighterpiliot
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2009 4:12 pm PT
Review:  
  I got this game with high expectations, I was not at all disappointed. The game allows you to create 
 your own version of Jurassic Park. I feel that it stays pretty true to the movies, however some 
 dinosaurs in the game have never been featured in the movies. If you really want the Dino's to 
 look exactly the same as the movie, I suggest going to www. jplegacy. org, they have created a "film 
 cannon" which, when installed properly will give the dinosaurs the exact same movie color pattern. 
 The game graphics are very good, especially considering that it is from 2002! I would not have 
 known it was that old if the trailer hadn't shown it. The dinosaurs all act and sound realistic, 
 as well as showing behavior like pack hunting in the case of velociraptors and dilophasaurus. However 
 the latter aren't very smart and rarely spit poison. The only things that I don't like about the 
 game are tornadoes and the fact that you can't get an island that is the same shape as the one 
 from the books or movie.
  Tornadoes are part of the game but are still really, really bad. All in all this is a good game, 
 and the only thing that prevented it from having a higher score (9.5) is that it is an old game 
 and as such is not quite up to par with recent technology. However it could give any new game a 
 run for its money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cynicoren
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  This dino game is somewhat exciting. As in the JP movie, you breed dinos genetically, and run your 
 theme park. Problem is - It's all to easy.
  Yes, the graphics look good, and with the sound and camera options the dinosaurs look quite lively 
 and full of (pixeled) life.
  But the theme park campaign is very easy. I won the game on 1st attempt, without any use of saved 
 games ! Just built a park, added 3 wired habitats and a few Kiosks and shops, raised prices all 
 over the park to dino-bubble level , and that it. Carnis with carnis, herbis with herbis, and let 
 time pass.
  
  The other playing options are the "mission campaign" that holds some very very easy missions (finished 
 it all in less than 1.5 hours) and a weird, limited sandbox mode, that only let you create dino's, 
 without all the fuss of running the theme park.
  
  So i gave it 6.5 because I liked the (dinosaurs) acting, its like an ancient Sims game - the initial 
 idea sounds nice, but it can get boring quite quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: picklessmulan
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Jurassic Park is a game were you should build your own Theme park just like the Movie. There are 
 many different Dinosaurs and there are also missions were you can photo Dinosaurs from the Jeep 
 and Shoot them from a helicopter.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in the game is good. The dinosaurs looks good as the nature and buildings 
 and so on.
  
  Sound: The sound is marvelous. Its the Voices from the Movie and the Music as well. The only minus 
 in the sound is that its not enough talking.
  
  Control: The control is overall bad and its the mouse fault. The moving with the mouse is irretating. 
 and doesnt move as you want. 
  
  Value: The value of the game is fantastic if you are a fan of the game. There is much to to with 
 the building the park from scratch. Beside that you got a lot of exercises and also 12 missions 
 with driving car, flying helicopter, taking photos and shooting dinosaurs and so on.
  
  Tilt: I dont think the game is funny. ok its funfor a short while, but it gets very reptive after 
 a short while and everything take a long time. 
  
  + The Voices, The Music, The Value
  
  - Moving the mouse, Repitive, Boring 
  
  Graphics 7
  Sound 8
  Control 5
  Value 8
 
  Tilt 4
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lv46
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  A theme park game based around arguably the most famous fictional theme park in the world. What 
 could be a better idea, except maybe putting bacon and brie in a toasted sandwich. Wouldn't that 
 just be the best, especially with brown sauce. But I digress.........
  
  After starting, I first tried out the exercises. the first half of these being tutorials and the 
 second half being scenarios, based around building a safari ride, rebuilding the original Jurassic 
 Park, rebuilding site B from the second film, creating a park of super carnivores and building 
 a park on an island with worse weather than the Scottish Highlands. These scenarios are all fairly 
 easy once you know how to play, with the exception of the last one, as adverse weather hits every 
 other month and effectively closes the park down.
  
  The other set of scenarios are the missions, in which you play a park ranger tasked with either 
 ending rampages, taking photographs or herding herbivores. These are all very easy, and can be 
 finished in 1-2 hours. The herding levels and, to a lesser extent, the photographer levels are 
 quite boring, but the ending rampage missions, based around you, a rifle and a lot of velociraptors, 
 are good fun and a great way of relieving stress. Completing the missions unlocks the Site B mode, 
 in which you build hatcheries and food dispensers and watch how the dinosaurs cope. this is not 
 as good as it could have been, as if you accidentally fill up the dinosaur limit (60) , and have 
 not put in any carnivores, the only way to get space to add different dinosaurs is to wait until 
 they start to die of old age, up to 5 in game years. Although there is an ability to kill off the 
 dinosaurs with the 'lethal gene', this cannot be used. Also, watching T-Rex hunt smaller dinosaurs 
 is fun for a while, it quickly becomes boring.
  
  The other mode of play is the titular 'Operation Genesis'. In this, you choose an island by altering 
 the amount of mountains, rivers and trees, and then build a park from the ground up. you start 
 with one fossil dig site unlocked and enough DNA to create 2 species of dinosaur, usually a herbivore 
 and a carnivore. As you build up, you will find new fossils to both breed new species of dinosaur 
 and increase their longevity. An increased number of dinosaur species will draw more people to 
 your park and increasing its fame. This allows you to find fossils in new locations, and further 
 diversify. 
  In order to make the park successful, you must also research new technologies to help it run. Thinking 
 of breeding a T-Rex to draw in thrill seekers? Then research high security fences to keep it in. 
 Does rain make all your visitors leave? then research umbrellas to keep them happy. I only really 
 have two criticisms. 1. That the starting amount of money is barely sufficient to build one enclosure 
 and the infrastructure needed to support visitors, and 2. That you have no choice as to what your 
 starting dinosaur species are, or where your initial dig site is. I believe that adding player 
 control in these areas would make the game more enjoyable.
  
  The game is good looking, considering it runs on Direct X 8, and sounds incredible. All the 25 
 species have their own calls, the voice acting sounds like it is done by the original actors and 
 the musical score is very suitable. Also, the John Williams theme is played in the opening menu 
 screens. As I consider that to be one of the best pieces of music ever written, this is just the 
 icing on the soundtrack cake.
  
  I do have a major complaint with the game AI, due to the fact that it is clinically retarded. I 
 have created perfect enclosures, with food, water, shelter, everything a dinosaur could ever want, 
 and they still manage to starve to death. How does anything starve to death when surrounded by 
 food? Anyone who knows, please tell me.
  
  To sum up, the game play is good, if a little over-responsive at times, the graphics are good, 
 the sound is incredible, and it is a very enjoyable game.
  I do, however, think that an expansion pack bringing some more species in would have been good, 
 especially some of the ones from the films.
  All in all though, I recommend this game. Its not perfect, but then no game is, except Red Alert. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninn1000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  In Operation Genesis you get to create your own Jurassic Park, and I know, 'there is no way this 
 could be done in a video game.' But this game, hits the bell, if a little softly...
  
  Its graphic are just one of its great feats. They might not look so interesting now but for a game 
 that cameout 7 years ago, the graphics are amazing. Each dino looks different and although the 
 plant life is sorta repeditive it is interesting in its own way. Colors, as you can see from the 
 photos, are all vivid and bright and really brings the world to life but doesn't make the game look 
 like it was made for babies.
  
  From the point of view of a scientist: ... I'm not one, skipping!
  
  The gamplay normally isn't 
 too hard, in the manual it makes it sound like dino breakouts are really common, but really aren't 
 at all if you know what your doing making this game sorta easy. But other times people may get 
 stuck in the cages, then you need to go rescue them using the helecopter which also isn't too hard, 
 but still feels real.
  
  Of coarse this is a theme park/ zoo game so like in games like Zoo Tycoon you'll need to build 
 fences around your dinos to keep them away from visitors (whose needs you will need to satisfy- 
 still easy) . But people can still see the dinos without having to look through all of the bars 
 in the cages. You can add "Attractions" which bring the people and the dinos closer. The types 
 I can recall are the following:
  
  Car Ride: Draw a trail for a car to follow, or drive around the cage yourself.
  
  Tower: A 
 view from above the bars.
  
  Peep-hole: A place where visitors can take a tunnel under the cage into a dome where they can look 
 out.
  
  Balloon Ride: It's like the car ride but can tour the whole island, but sadly you can't control 
 it.
  
  Cage Lookout: Lets visitors look out into the cage from the wall.
  
  To get dinos you have to get a escavtion team to dig up fossiles and when you have enough of that 
 type you can "Clone" that dino. Then you need to put a hatury in the cage and wait for the eggs 
 to hatch.
  
  Besides the freeform I've been explaining there is also a relitivly harder part to the game where 
 you do missions such as taking photos, shooting down dinos and saving people from being eaten. 
 These mini missions are quite a bit funner than they sound. Cheesy as they are, they are fun.
 
  
  By completing all these missions (or using a cheat- I've done both) you unlock an island where 
 you can do anything you want with no visitors or cages. And this is a great way to see was Mr. 
 Rex would enjoy having for tomarrows lunch. It's really fun but doesn't give you all the fun you 
 get from Freeform.
  
  All-in-all this game is enjoyable and suggestable for newbies to Theme-park games because there 
 is so much to do, but isn't very hard.
  
  
  888888 555555
  88 88 55
  88 88 55
  888888 55555
  88 88 55
  88 88 :::::: 55 
  888888 :::::: 555555 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamespotmarioGM
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  What Operation Genesis is about is that jurassic park needs to have a new park manager that is 
 you, from opening the park with atractions to get at least $5 per minute!
  Game Features include; Dinosaurs, Visitors, Fun Gameplay, Security Cameras, Gun Turrets, Low Security 
 Fences/Medium Security Fences/High Security Fences, And Lots more
  my final word
  
  
  
  
  BUY THE GAME!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!! ! !!!!! !!!! !!!!!! !!!! !! !!!!! 
 !!!! ! !!!! !!!! !!! !!!! !! !!! !!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!! ! !!!!!! !!!! !!!! !!!!! !!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!!!!! !! !!!! !! !!!!! !!!!!!!!! !!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!! !! !!! !! !!!! !!!! 
 !!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!! !!! !!!!! !!!!! !!!! !!!!!! !!! !!!!!! !!!! !!!! !!! 
 
  
  
  by gamespotmarioGM 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nitronic12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Now how do I start writing a fair review to a game to which I am biasedly into love with? It's 
 not going to be simple, but I'll do it.
  
  Firstly JPOG (as it's commonly abbreviated) is a game that offers something that many games do 
 not. The chance to make dinosaurs! Who wouldn't love that? Now maybe there will be a few people 
 who don't love this game, but that's a given.
  This game gives players the chance to relieve the Jurassic Park experience, to create a park on 
 your own island and to take care of it. Exactly how you saw it in the movie, only they've added 
 more for the game. Rides shops etc, all these little details tie in to the game to create a more 
 impressive environment.
  
  Normally with games that give the freedom of construction option, there are catches, glitches, 
 problems. With this game there isn't. It's simple and it works. The level of freedom that is given 
 is quite expansive for such a game the whole Island is yours to build on, and if you have the money, 
 you could cover the entire island in buildings, roads and whatnot. You can even expand the dinosaur 
 paddocks into the ocean.
  The gameplay mechanics have been balanced out to give the most stable and enjoyable time while 
 playing this game. Everything from taking care of the animals by supplying them food or giving 
 them vaccines to feeding the visitors is all made simple through the menus that are easy to access 
 and understand.
  When things go wrong in the park the good thing is that you're alerted, even if you haven't gone 
 through training you could still understand what to do and take that step ensuring that the park 
 stays safe and everyone has fun.
  You also have the ability to research, for a price and a certain amount of time, you could improve 
 your park. Whether that be umbrellas for the visitors or faster dinosaur growth it still helps.
 
  There are just so many things that you could do in the game to achieve a working park. It's your 
 island and you're literally God. You can create pools, mountains, plant trees all sorts of things. 
 Theres just so much put into the game its hard to get bored.
  
  The visuals and sounds are one of the most memorable parts of the game. If you're a fan of the 
 movies, then the game will appease you. The dinosaurs all have the same look as those from the 
 movies. As well as the sounds. Terrifying and terrific roars fill the landscape creating the perfect 
 Jurassic Park atmosphere. But wait theres even Jurassic Park music that will bring back even the 
 most nostalgic memories of when you were younger.
  Even so if you're not happy with the current skins you could always join the JPOG community and 
 get some after market modifications that change certain aspects of the game.
  
  
  Jurassic Park Operation Genesis is an underappreciated game that is fun no matter who you are. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodzillaRocks
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Now is your chance to full fill Dr. John Hammond's dream by successfully designing and managing 
 the ultimate dinosaur theme park. Jurassic Park: Operation Genesis allows gamers to create the 
 most amazing theme park the world has ever seen. As the first ever fully 3D action-sim, Operation 
 Genesis gives players two games in one. Either build the ultimate dinosaur theme park or engage 
 in 12 action-packed missions that will truly test your gaming skills. Dream it. Build it. Survive 
 it. This truly is Jurassic Park... your way! I have rented this game a gazillion times because 
 its so much fun!!! You will enjoy this game if you buy it!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Av0011
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 26, 2007 1:47 am PT
Review:  JP: Operation Genisis is one of the best, if not the best, Simulation (park) building game i have 
 played on. there is just so much you can do on it, and one other major thing about it is that the 
 picture quality is amazing on it for its time, considering how much we have advanced in Tech.
 
  
  If anyone has been put off park building games or simulations then you should defintely try this 
 out, this game will change your mind about them.
  
  This game has been underappreciated by a lot of gamers but theese people that say it isnt worth 
 it are the ones who think that you should go on websites and use the cheats for the game. this 
 is one thing that i do not recommend, using the cheats because it just takes all of the fun out 
 of the game and makes the game too easy to finnish or play.
  
  Overall i would rate this game a big fat 10 but because the game's graphics and sound was a little 
 less for me since i played on it recently and comparing it to games like supreme commander the 
 graphics are a let down for me but in all the game is woth while buying and most importantly, in 
 my opinion, keeping. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aqwa
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 19, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  this is a very cool so cool game but its missing something an expansion pack new dinosaurs needs 
 to remake so players wont get bored from the same dinosaurs am i right ? and im saying that this 
 thing is cool not wrong or anything it just needs to reload i cant find that renew it or something 
 thats all so i guess thats all bye bye (o_-) it and somebody please make the text a little shorter 
 then 100 texts !!!!!! so im gonna write something like blah blab blab blab bla blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mackan52
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 8, 2007 4:20 am PT
Review:  As a Jurassic Park fan i enjoy the idea of building my own Dinosaur Park and make what John Hammond 
 couldn't.
  
  The game is very simplistic in terms of building and maintaining and once you built the basic aspects 
 the park pretty much runs itself. As you wait on the cash starting rolling in you can use the time 
 to inspect your park, check the fences, maybe swing around in the Ranger Helicopter and shoot tranquilizer 
 darts on the dinosaurs (this is good practice in case it happens ) or just watch what happens in 
 the park in general.
  
  The game rolls on, it has good graphics, easy playing when you get bored, interesting AI for the 
 dinosaurs. It's a Theme Park game with dinosaurs putting it simply.
  
  If you like simulations like Theme Park or Zoo Tyccon this is a game for you since it's a hybrid 
 of them both, if you like Jurassic Park in general then you will like the game because of the topic 
 for the most part.
  
  The only problem with the game is that it has a specific target group and is not suited for everyone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reevesy314
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 12, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  I always loved theme park so imagine my pleasure when i had two weeks off a few years ago now and 
 i found this game I was stoked to say the least.
  The best way to look at ths game would be take theme park and even hospital where you try and get 
 the balance what happens when you get bored you take out chunks of coaster or destroy the rooms 
 the patient needs and you watch em die, what if you could just tear down a load of fences and buildings 
 and watch your creations have at your guest of honour how cool is that?!.
  Seriously though my biggest thing about this game is not its huge amount of playing options and 
 the pretty graphics and animations no for me it is the chance to actually relax listening to the 
 music clicking on one of my little 'pets' and just watching i can't think of anything more relaxing 
 todo with my time.
  My biggest hang up with this game is the caps it give you for everything like not being able to 
 breed all species of dinosaur at the same time, a maximum number of path tiles I can lay, wtf? 
 If i have a powerful computer should it really matter? i don't think so.
  still over all i would give this game a resounding thumbs up to jurrasic park fans and dino buffs 
 alike. I loved it so should you even if you do find the novelty factor fairly short lived. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Louge_
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 22, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No 
 More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, 
 No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very 
 Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, 
 Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God 
 Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is 
 A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More 
 Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No 
 More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, 
 No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very 
 Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, 
 Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God 
 Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is 
 A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More 
 Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No 
 More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, 
 No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very 
 Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, 
 Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God 
 Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is 
 A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More 
 Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No 
 More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, 
 No More Is A God Game, Very Cool, No More 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samad_cool
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 29, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  I like this game to discover a park where all dinosaurs are roaming in that place and visitors 
 visit the park. Some researchers come to researches in the park. Scientist also visit along with 
 them. This is the time pass game. When the carnivores dinosaurs try to distroy the park then we 
 can take photos from the car &amp; shoot from the helicopter in the mission level. We can either 
 shoot or click a photos. It depend upon us that we can select any one option. In the first level, 
 we can select an exercise level to move our computer keyboard cursor. The third level Site B , 
 we can create own park. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterfo
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2006 4:04 pm PT
Review:  I loved the game, I've been playing it off and on now for 4 years. It might get boring, but then 
 you find that little something that amazes you how nice the game was actually put together. The 
 game is like the movie, scary and thrilling, with your park to build, dinosaurs to clone, and people 
 to entertain, this game is a solid park builder. One thing I could change if there was going to 
 be a sequal would be the ability to clone more dinosaurs in a park, and more dinosaurs in general. 
 But overall, this game is very nice. The dinosaur AI is excellent, just like a real one would be. 
 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kjsimon1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 6, 2006 9:27 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. With site B, you can remake scenes from the Jurassic park movies like the 
 part with the T-rex and the Gallimimus chase, T-rex vs Spinosaurs, etc...... Also, you can make 
 the Jurassic park you wanted ever since you saw the movie and you can decide to let the dino's 
 hang around in their exibets or realese them and let the carnivours taste something else beside 
 goats and cows. Also the one thing cool about this game is that people will act like people, because 
 if a dinosaur escapes they'll run and scream until one of their lungs pops, also if a huge carnivour 
 escapes, it will grab a person and sometimes it will hold the person in it's mouth and shake's 
 them up and swollow's them and you can zoom up and see them going down it's throat. But some people 
 think this game suck just because they can't get all the "cool" dinosaurs, but I just extract the 
 amber until I have at least 100% of a dinosaur's DNA then I just sell the amber I get. But the 
 one thing I want to know is how to take screenshots. Well that's it for my review, for those of 
 you who are reading this, I hope you enjoyed it, but if you know how to take a screenshot can you 
 let me know how to take one, please?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archrivel
Rating: 3.8
Date: Mar 26, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  This game, isn't going to win the big-time awards any time soon. The graphics sux, the game atmosphere 
 sux and the only thing that saves the game is there are featured people from the first jurassic 
 park speaking inside the game.
  
  The game isn't friendly to anyone who hasn't a clue of whats going on or how to start building 
 the theme parks. The menus although coloful do nothing to help you out. In fact you could be pushing 
 the button to let all the T-Rex loose and you wouldn't know it.
  
  The training excerises and most of the instructions is kind of a let down, too much reading, not 
 enough of voice menus. Perhaps it could of been done better if they had some one speaking the instructions 
 instead of you having to read everything. 
  
  There so much science shoved into this game you would think it was published by open university 
 or something. The game had me turning the game off after only the 3rd training mission. I just 
 couldn't care less and the game left me frustrated and bored to tears almost.
  
  This game would only appeal to die hard fans of dinasours or Theme parks otherwise this game should 
 come with a Gamers beware warning sign. You have your brains blown out and having the game make 
 you feel a small person. They put in these big long scientif words and names of Dinosaurs and expect 
 you to know what they mean or how to say them. They assume everyone playing is going to be an Archeologist 
 or some scientifc expert on Dinosaurs.
  
  This game could be played in schools I dunno about this being a game for fun. Just .... eeerrr! 
 you know what I mean?
  
  I advise just to stay away from it. Theres much better games out there like games such as theme 
 park and others. This game looks nice and great but its a Shark. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psplord980
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 18, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  Grade
  B (8.0)
  
  Good
  Realistic Dinos! They eat, drink, sleep, and crap.
  Plenty of Dinos to choose from
  Nice Dino fatalities
  challenging Story mode
  Very nice Site 
 B mode.
  
  Bad
  Dinos gltich sometimes
  Get's fustrating when not enough customers come
  Dino's sometimes act like they had drugs...
 
  Some realistic creaturs is a bad thing.
  very very long, painful, dreadfull load times...
  
  Closing Comments: This is a very nice Sime them Park simulator...
  I; ve always been a fan 
 of the JP movies... Now i can manage my own JP!
  Able to see a T-rex do a vicous never before seen fatality on a Spino is my dream.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sponny1
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 11, 2006 11:22 pm PT
Review:  The Graphics are totaly awesome on the PC if you have the latest. You should really buy this awesome 
 games and its even better than zoo tychoon or Dino Island i mean Dino Island sucks like hell since 
 the dinosour look more like mono in dino island and their teeth sinks but jurrasic park is better 
 i mean 20 times better than dino island and in jurrasic park its also hard to get visitors to come 
 to your park youve got to entertain them and bla bla bla but the best part is how realistic the 
 dinosour acts and what it does thats why i still cant keep my eyes away from this game because 
 its so great i mean well you just cant get it off you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabbit_pie
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2006 8:27 am PT
Review:  this is a good game dont get me wrong, but iv played both pc and ps2 version and found the ps2 
 version, much better. The zoom option is a nice effect allowing you to zoom right in2 the blades 
 of grass, but the general controls i found annoying, trying not to scroll off the screen was a 
 game in itself. All in all this is a really good game, tThe graphics are nice as is the sound. And 
 being able to build a chopper station and go around in a chopper shooting your dinosaurs is an 
 extra bonus. I would recomend this game to anyoe, but i would recomend it on the ps2 rather than 
 the pc. If you have any questions about this game, or any other games i have reviewed please feel 
 free to send me a message and ill get back to you ASAP 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insectus
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 1, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  I am a great Jurassic Park fan, it is a guilty pleasure, so I HAD to get this game. I'm glad it 
 was worth it.
  
  The game runs just like a regular park management, game, particullarly like Zoo Tycoon. You build 
 facilities, fences, put some dinossaurs on them and watch the cash flown in. This is the basics, 
 but there's so much more to the game.
  
  Graphics are beautifull specially the dinossaurs, sound is in great part taken from the movies 
 (I just love that T-Rex seismic roar!) .
  
  You have to keep visitors happy by building all the facilities they need, setting adequate prices, 
 keeping the park clean, and, of extreme importance, keeping them safe!
  
  There several security options, from dinossaur repelents to auto-turrets that kill rampaging dinossaurs. 
 Of course the best solution is, if possible, immediately tranquilizing the beast and getting it 
 back to its fence unarmed.
  
  You don't just generate dinossaurs from nothingness, you must dig throughout the world for fossiles 
 and then extract DNA from them. Once you 50% DNA you can breed the dinossaur, but the more complete 
 it is, the longer the dinossaur will live.
  
  There many more gameplay complexities waiting for you, I would loose a day here trying to get them 
 all out.
  
  Just one thing bothers me, occasionally a twister will hit the island, destroying and killing everything 
 in its path. I think the catastrophous effects of this are exagerated. If you don't have a lot 
 of funds on hand, you won't be able to repair you're park, repairing the park is very hard gameplay-wise, 
 you have to go through all of the damage reports one-by-one and order every single repair. If three 
 buildings are damaged its OK. Once there are 60 things get complicated!!!
  
  Nevertheless, the game is an exccelent and soothing experience. Sometimes its fun just too watch 
 the dinossaurs, their AI is amazing for the most part.
  
  Play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 3, 2006 2:49 am PT
Review:  urassic Park is one of the biggest and highest grossing blockbuster movies ever released, and it 
 was quickly followed up with two more action oriented sequels. In case you missed it, the original 
 was all about a dinosaur theme park gone awry, and now you have your chance to try your luck with 
 a Jurassic park of your own.
  
  Operation Genesis takes the theme park genre and injects it with a little dino-fever, and while 
 that may seem like a publisher is trying to pump out a crapware title to milk the last few drops 
 from this cash cow, the end result is surprisingly entertaining.
  
  While there arent a plethora of different modes to play, the depth of gameplay easily makes up 
 for it. Depth of gameplay you ask? Yes, I wasnt expecting it myself.
  
  The intelligent thing to do is to take a run through the nine detailed tutorials in the game, which 
 are a tremendous help with easing you into the game mechanics.
  
  However, you will immediately notice my only major complaint once you begin playing. The interface 
 is clunky, and thats putting it mildly. I often found myself clicking on one button when I was 
 aiming for another, and constantly reaching for the keyboard, which this game is far too dependant 
 on.
  
  The next game mode is called missions, and it actually eliminates all park building aspects, and 
 has you accomplishing tasks such as putting down rampaging dinos and snapping photos of dinosaur 
 behavior for research purposes. This mode is useful for a quick diversion and nothing more.
  
  The last is operation genesis, which is basically a sandbox mode. You configure the shape, 
 river system, mountains, and tree density of an island, and then build a park as you see fit.
 
  
  None of this seems overwhelming, but as I stated before, the gameplay is what shines here.
  
 
  Dinos simply dont fall from the sky, you first need to hire archeological teams and send them 
 to various dig sites around the world to find fossils and amber that contain dino DNA. Once youve 
 uncovered these, you must have your scientists extract the DNA.
  
  The production of dinosaurs in your hatcheries requires at least 50% of a specific dinos genome. 
 As there are 25 dino breeds in the game, this alone is enough to keep you busy for a very long 
 time. And while you are able to hatch dinosaurs with only 50% of its genome, its a wise investment 
 to bring each up to 100% as they will live longer and be a more satisfactory experience for visitors.
 
  
  Once you have a stable of dinos in your park, you will find that caring for them is quite demanding. 
 Rampaging dinos can wreak havoc on your park, and if a visitor is killed then your park rating 
 and popularity will suffer greatly. Its this balance of dino and visitor happiness that drives 
 this game.
  
  Developing vaccines for your dinos is possibly the most important thing you can do, since diseases 
 in the game are contagious. Once a dino becomes sick, its probably a good idea to sedate the animal 
 and move him into a pen all on his own to prevent him from infecting the rest.
  
  Dinos also cant survive on air alone. There are herbivore feeders that eject bales of plant feed, 
 and carnivore feeders that release cows and goats into an enclosure. Herbivores will also munch 
 on vegetation in its enclosure, so keeping its surrounding lush is a necessity. Carnivores are 
 also not happy with only cow and goat for lunch. Seeing as how they are predators by nature, they 
 like to hunt, and providing them with the occasional herbivore will quickly satisfy them.
  
  On the other hand, there are visitors to tend to. They need to have all the amenities for a 
 good time, and you need to keep them feeling safe. Ranger stations (complete with flyable helicopters) , 
 visitor shelters, sentry turrets, security cameras, and avoidance beacons are all at your disposal. 
 Buildings are all nicely detailed, however there just doesnt seem to be enough variety between 
 them.
  
  As you can tell, there is rarely a dull moment in the game since so much is constantly going on. 
 And while the game keeps you busy, you never feel overwhelmed or burdened by it all.
  
  The graphics engine is amazing at creating very lush looking environments and this game features 
 the most amazing water effects I have ever witnessed, with realistic and natural looking reflections 
 and movement. Storms, tornadoes, and sunsets look great, the dinosaur models are surprisingly detailed, 
 and with the ability to zoom in painfully close youre able to get a great view of every part of 
 your park.
  
  Each dino has its own unique calls, and you can hear the booming footsteps of the larger or the 
 scurrying of the smaller dinos. The game also includes the remarkable score of the original movie 
 that adds a fantastic cinematic feel to the title.
  
  It may appear shallow at first, though once you begin playing Operation Genesis you realize that 
 there is more than meets the eye. With such deep and busy gameplay, and an amazing graphics engine 
 to boot this is a title that offers up more than its fair share of entertainment.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shane_F
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 18, 2005 11:21 pm PT
Review:  The "Review" deck is pretty much sums up the game on my end.
  
  What happens in this game. First you start off with very little money, then you need to create 
 something. But long an behold, by the time you create your first dinosaur you are already close 
 to zero, and if you forget to up the entrance fee to an "extreme price" (I have it in quotes because 
 $2,000 to see dinosaurs in real life would be a bargain) for the start of the game, you will not 
 get any money back. This makes the game really hard in the start.
  
  Tip given.
  
  Gameplay is fine. Other that the placement of objects is based off a grid pretty much helps you 
 decide where to place things. Graphics for this game and date, are pretty decent. Compare to a 
 newer game like.. The Movies, this game is basic. Sound very good. I love that you hear the actors 
 voices. Most games just get recordings from the the actual movie. Value, cost way to much for when 
 I bought it. Wait for it to go down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScarPredator200
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 20, 2005 3:40 am PT
Review:  Jurassic Park: Operation Genesis is the coolest game I have play in my life the dinosaurs are total 
 great and you can make your own park! And most of all you can jump onto the helicorpter and a car! Well 
 I am not a teen and I just 10 years old and I know how to play it very well and its worth playing 
 it.
  because you can play as long as you like its a ever ending game. The best part playing in Jurassic 
 Park: Operation Genesis is that I can watch Spinosaurs fighting T-rex in the game and their fighting 
 style looks a bit like the movie Jurassic Park 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leprechaun9
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 21, 2005 1:06 am PT
Review:  This game is fun. It is one of those sleeper games that have a big fanbase that you never hear 
 about. If you like park builders you should like this, but most importantly if you like dinosaurs 
 or just animals in general you'll love this. The AI is amazing and something you have to see to 
 belive. There's not much in the form of missions, but you can freely build parks which is fun. 
 Also once you complete the little amount of missions there are you can play site B which lets you 
 just build dinos and watch them roam free. Plus, if you get boared of it, it is a good game for 
 modding, there's a website devoted to it at http://diehard. ath. cx/~moddinggenesis. There's also 
 a community expansion in development. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TROAB
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 6, 2006 7:42 am PT
Review:  I thought this was a fantastic concept for a game, but upon playing it I was frustrated. The mouse 
 controls are odd and I have trouble controlling the cursor for some reason. The game feels stripped 
 down, it doesn't seem like i have enough options. The guest and dinosaur limitation really hurt 
 the game too, as mentioned in other user reviews. After playing for awhile I came to the conclusion 
 that this game must have been designed for console systems initially and then ported to PC, because 
 that's what I felt like I was playing.
  
  In addition it would have been nice if the camera had a pitch control because I never felt like 
 I could see everything I wanted to see. When I zoomed out I ended up with a top down view which 
 meant I still had a very limited field of vision.
  
  I would like to rate this game highly, if only so that they might make a sequel and fix all the 
 problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joesmokey
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 27, 2003 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Jurassic Park: Operation Genesis has a very attractive premise and slick audiovisual effects. The 
 dinosaurs in their enclosures are really something to behold (even my wife, a staunch anti-computer 
 game vigilante, "doesn't mind so much" this particular game) . However, while the game is quite 
 enjoyable initially, players will quickly discover that there is very little action and the replayability 
 could be much stronger.
  
  The Gamespot reviewer has covered much of the game basics. I will add a few notes about shortcomings 
 that reveal themselves as you progress through the game. First, the economic model is particularly 
 weak. You can easily set your park entrance fee quite high, upwards of $1,500 or more. You'll be 
 surprised that it hardly makes a dent in your attendance at that level and you'll need the money. 
 All the way at $3,000 there is some effect, so taper it down accordingly to the $1,500-$2,000 range 
 until your park has enough stars. After you have say, 3 1/2 stars, set it to the max. With the 
 gate fees as such, and with the exorbitant costs of dinosaurs, park fencing, and foliage, you'll 
 soon discover that the fees for soda stands, restrooms, attraction fees, souvenir stands, etc., 
 are such a small part of your park's economy ($5 here and there) that they never really merit your 
 attention. Just set them all to low prices to keep your visitors happy and never think about them 
 again. These economic imbalances are disheartening and a major flaw when compared to the models 
 in the premier park series, Rollercoaster Tycoon.
  
  There are inexplicable limitations on some park features. For example, when building out larger 
 parks, you'll suddenly learn that you can't build any more fences or any more feeders! Why not?! 
 Also, the number of guests in your park will never exceed 100 people for more than a few seconds 
 if ever. You can have miles of pathways and gobs of dinosaurs with an entrance price of $0 and 
 you still won't have more than 100 visitors. I'm still not sure why. With such a small number of 
 visitors, you can see why $5 at the burger stand isn't going to make a dent in your finances when 
 visitors are paying $1,500 at the door.
  
  Jurassic Park has a lot of cool defensive features that will spring to life should any dinosaurs 
 (especially the large, drooling carnivorous kind) escape their enclosures. There are machine gun 
 turrets that you can switch to manual, there are ranger helicopters with lethal weapons, special 
 security cameras to alert you when breakouts occur, and lethal genes you can pay big dollars to 
 incorporate into dino DNA. Sounds exciting, doesn't it? I thought so, too. Too bad you'll almost 
 never get to use any of them. The game includes exactly one type of disaster, a twister. When a 
 twister comes through you'll be thankful you built the special visitor shelters to protect your 
 guests from the funnel cloud or the dinosaurs whose enclosures have been damaged. However, you'll 
 get one twister here or there, not nearly enough to really make it exciting. After hours of working 
 on a park, you could expect maybe one or two in that time. Sound the alarm, the visitors run to 
 the shelters, and you repair the fences and make sure no dinosaurs get out. What about my machine 
 gun turrets and all the security gear I invested in? Having won all the built-in missions and made 
 lots of parks in sandbox mode with carnivores galore, I've still never used them. Supposedly dinosaurs 
 can attack your safari ride and strand a visitor in an enclosure, but even if this happened it 
 doesn't sound all that thrilling. This game needs a LOT more disasters or other problems that will 
 result in dinosaur dangers. Perhaps a "disaster-on-demand" feature, such as that in the Sim City 
 series could be incorporated.
  
  In summary, the game is intriguing and touts realistic dinosaurs reminiscent of the Carnivores 
 series. Unfortunately, the park size restrictions, low number of guests, poor economic model, and 
 lack of any real disaster scenarios come together to present a game with little or no challenge. 
 You'll build a nice park and look at your dinosaurs and then wait for something interesting to 
 happen... like a patch to make it more exciting.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
