-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Just Cause
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/justcause/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Well-realized island setting.
 parachute and grappling gun lend the action a highly unique flavor.
 no loading times as you travel across the island.
 great variety of vehicles to pilot.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Short story mode.
 not enough ancillary activities.
 gunplay is too easy.
 implementation of stunts a little clunky at times.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 21, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 7.4, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 1,476 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Avalanche Studios
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Sep 27, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Just Cause is able to justify its relative brevity and disrespect for physical law with some extremely 
 visceral and often satisfying action. 

  Suspension of disbelief is such a fundamental part of the video game experience that we often take 
 it for granted. Multiple lives and first-aid kits that instantly mend whatever ails you are conventions 
 that we accept without batting an eye, even in games that purport to have realistic settings. That 
 said, Just Cause is a visceral third-person action game with some outrageous action that will require 
 an extra helping of that suspension of disbelief to be able to enjoy. But, if you can get past 
 the infeasibility of a man hanging onto the tail of a flying jet with one hand, you might find 
 a lot to like in Just Cause.  

          Why are you hanging off the back of that helicopter? Just 'cause.     

  Though the 
 broad structure of Just Cause is copped from the Grand Theft Auto series, the game also shares 
 certain characteristics with Mercenaries and Pursuit Force. The game takes place on the fictional 
 Caribbean island of San Esperito. You play as the black-clad Rico Rodriguez, an amused but detached 
 character who in no small way evokes Antonio Banderas' mariachi character from  Desperado . Rico 
 comes to San Esperito to help overthrow Salvador Mendoza, a corrupt dictator in league with the 
 Montano drug cartel. With you are Sheldon, a Hawaiian-shirt-wearing, Joe Don Baker-type who has 
 a way of saying Spanish phrases like "El Presidente" with a pronounced twang, and Kane, a comparatively 
 bland tough girl with a lot of sass and some vague history with Rico. With the assistance of the 
 People's Revolutionary Army of San Esperito, as well as the rival Riojas drug cartel, your aim 
 is to dismantle the existing regime through assassination, espionage, and plenty of mayhem.  

 
  The island of San Esperito is huge, and though there are a few urbanized areas, including a small 
 high-rise district, several military installations, seaports, and airports, most of San Esperito 
 is blanketed in undeveloped rainforest that is peppered with crude settlements. Its size is a little 
 deceptive, since there's not much to be done in the huge tracts of forest, but it all feels organic, 
 and the scope of the island is still impressive. You're given a good feel for the size of the island, 
 as well as some of Rico's more unconventional skills, right off the bat, as you start off the game 
 by jumping out of a plane at several thousand feet. You can control Rico's speed and direction 
 a bit while in freefall, and you can instantly deploy a parachute at the tap of a button, which 
 slows you down enough to make a safe landing and frees up your hands to hold any one of the weapons 
 you might have on you. The parachute system is just one of many absurd contrivances in Just Cause. 
 There's no limit to how often you can deploy your parachute, it doesn't seem to take up any space 
 on your person, and it never gets snagged on obstacles like trees, buildings, or streetlamps.  
 

  In Grand Theft Auto fashion, Just Cause lets you commandeer just about any vehicle you see, including 
 boats, planes, and helicopters, provided you can get close enough to it. Once you're behind the 
 wheel, most vehicles have a "stunt position," which forces you to relinquish control but lets you 
 jump onto other nearby vehicles and take control of them or deploy your parachute, which will jerk 
 you back up into the air. After a few missions, you're given a grappling gun, which you can use 
 to hook onto vehicles from a few hundred meters away. Grappling onto a moving vehicle will cause 
 your parachute to automatically deploy, making it possible to parasail around the island. Perhaps 
 most impressively, you can use the grappling hook to skyjack helicopters and planes while they're 
 in the air.  

          There's a decent learning curve to using the parachute and grappling gun effectively.  
    

  Using these mechanics well can take some getting used to, as a lot of the action buttons are contextual, 
 and the only way to tell if you're able to pull off certain moves is when the onscreen text descriptions 
 of the action buttons change. So the button used for jumping to another vehicle from the stunt 
 position is the same for simply jumping out of your vehicle depending on the situation, and if 
 you're not paying extra-close attention to the onscreen text descriptions, you'll end up on foot 
 rather than on the desired vehicle. There's also a certain amount of contempt for the laws of physics 
 in Just Cause. Perhaps the most absurd example is the ability to hop back and forth from the cockpit 
 of a moving helicopter to the stunt position on the helicopter's tail, passing right through the 
 spinning blades every time. You'll also find that you can deploy your parachute just feet from 
 the ground without any harm, and you can go directly from a terminal-velocity freefall into a stunt 
 position on a vehicle, even going in a direction completely contrary to your momentum as long as 
 the vehicle is close enough.  

  The game doesn't even bother trying to justify any of this craziness, and it will no doubt annoy 
 those expecting even a modicum of realism, but once you figure out how to effectively use these 
 abilities to seamlessly grapple onto a car, take control of it, get into stunt position as you 
 drive it off a cliff, deploy your parachute as you watch the car explode in the ravine below you, 
 grapple onto an attacking helicopter and take it over, then freefall directly into the warm Caribbean 
 waters surrounding San Esperito, it makes the action uniquely visceral and extremely satisfying. 
     

   

  It's lucky for Just Cause that it's able to differentiate itself from other, similar games with 
 these ridiculous abilities, since some of the other facets of the gameplay aren't nearly as inspired. 
 In all of the console versions of Just Cause, there's a liberal autotargeting system that only 
 asks that you be pointing in the general direction of an enemy, which makes the gunplay a bit too 
 easy. By comparison, the PC version defaults to a mouse-and-keyboard setup, though even then the 
 gunplay is pretty forgiving and not especially satisfying. The most unique aspect of the gunplay 
 is the ability to detonate grenades early by shooting them in the air, though it's about as hard 
 to do as it sounds and rarely figures too prominently into the action. Save for a few specific 
 planes, the vehicles control well enough, but the enemy artificial intelligence can be frustratingly 
 tenacious, with a knack for spinning out your car and stopping you dead in your tracks.  

          San Esperito is a great location; it's too bad there isn't more to do.     

  The main 
 mission of taking down Salvador Mendoza is relatively short, and if you're focused, you can burn 
 through it in well under five hours. Missions are usually heavy with checkpoints, which means that 
 if you die in the middle of a mission, you'll automatically start from the most recent checkpoint 
 rather than from scratch. As long as you're not in the middle of a mission, you can be extracted 
 to the starting point of your next mission at the touch of a button. The nature of the missions 
 is predictable. The crazy parachute and grappling-gun mechanics can make the  how  of these missions 
 much more interesting, but save for a few rather spectacular moments during the endgame, it's a 
 lot of assassinate this guy, steal this item, blow up this building -- there are rarely any big twists 
 or turns.  

  Just Cause has the open-world GTA structure, but there's not a wealth of activities to take on 
 outside of the completely linear main story. There are dozens and dozens of side missions you can 
 take on for the guerillas and the Riojas drug cartel, which can net you new safe houses, weapons, 
 and vehicles, but they're rarely more inventive than what's on offer in the primary missions. Theoretically, 
 you'll do these side missions concurrently with the main missions, with the extra hardware from 
 the side missions making the main missions easier, but the main missions are easy enough on their 
 own that it's a moot point.  

  But then, you can have a good deal of fun with Just Cause simply goofing around with taking in 
 the sights of San Esperito, which really does look and feel like a choice vacation spot with its 
 beautiful greenery, white sand beaches, and clear blue waters. The Xbox 360 version gives you additional 
 incentive to explore San Esperito with achievement points. You'll get a fair number by playing 
 through the different missions, but there are also achievements for killing a number of enemies, 
 performing a number of different types of stunts, or pulling off daring feats like base jumping 
 for 1,000 meters. There are a lot of different unique achievements, and you could soak up a lot 
 of time trying to earn every last one.  

  The use of achievements is just one of the reasons that the Xbox 360 version of Just Cause is the 
 best version. Though the game's use of motion blur and light bloom can be a little overwhelming 
 at times, the 360 version has the most stable frame rate, the clearest textures, and the cleanest 
 overall look. The PC and Xbox versions are close in terms of fidelity, though we couldn't get the 
 PC version to run in a wide-screen aspect ratio, and the Xbox version ran at a noticeably lower 
 resolution with a more erratic frame rate. Additionally, we found no apparent way to opt for gamepad 
 controls in the PC version. While the Xbox, PC, and Xbox 360 versions are comparable, the PlayStation 
 2 version feels compromised. The draw distance is much closer, there's a distracting amount of 
 pop-in, textures look comparatively flat and grainy, and the frame rate regularly chugs. Though 
 there's not much perceptible difference in terms of the actual content of the different versions 
 of Just Cause, the PS2 version's technical shortcomings make it much harder to recommend.  

          A lush and energetic soundtrack complements the exotic action nicely     

  Complementing 
 the game's equatorial vibe is a fantastic soundtrack that meshes classical Spanish guitars with 
 electronic beats, blaring trumpets, and surf and wah-wah guitars. Though there are only a handful 
 of different tunes in the game, it uses them effectively, kicking in right before a firefight or 
 a high-speed chase, imbuing all the action with a good deal of extra enthusiasm. It's unfortunate 
 that the rest of the sound design isn't as good as the music. Rico's footsteps stand out as sounding 
 especially flat on a lot of surfaces, and some of the weapon fire comes across as weak. The voice 
 acting is also somewhat inconsistent. Your character is perhaps a little too dry for his own good, 
 and some of the San Esperitians you'll encounter sound like lame caricatures, though the voice 
 of Sheldon is right on, which is good since he talks more than any other character in the game. 

  Just Cause will evoke strong love-it-or-hate-it reactions from people for a lot of reasons. The 
 game's amoral stance on the complicated issues surrounding US-sponsored regime changes in third-world 
 countries will rub some people the wrong way, while others will be annoyed by its fast-and-loose 
 approach to basic physics. Even though it doesn't get some of the particulars right, Just Cause 
 can still be engaging simply because of the risks it's willing to take.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (90 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 7:18 am PT
Review:  so after listening to lost of friends who said that this game is awesome i decided to buy it.. 
 what a mistake that was..
  
  lets start, first of all the game is really short took me a day of non stop playing in order to 
 finish it
  
  the shooting is freaking easy and its horrible.. i mean its so easy to kill the enemys theres no 
 chellenge, the AI of enemys is broken by the way,
  
  the graphics is ok not the best like my friends told me but its not the worst, the visuals are 
 really nice
  
  the sounds are ok i guess no problem with it
  
  and i really dont know what to say more about the game.. the only good thing about the game is 
 the visual effects and thats it
  
  other important thing like gameplay are horrible i mean that you cant play a game who has such 
 a short story mod and easy gun play
  
  if you see this game believe me dont buy it, weaste of time and money i hope that JUST CAUSE 2 
 will be better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exeron
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 6:36 am PT
Review:  You jump out of an airplane and the game begins...
  
  The first thing that strucked me was how good the game looked. 
  
  The passing clouds, the 
 ocean and not to mention the island. And one thing that i really like is that the game runs smoothly 
 at the most of computers... without you having to put your graphics to the lowest
  
  There's a main story which involves a lot of action. The missions aren't that exciting... but don't 
 worry you'll not see to many of them, since there are only 21 main story missions to complete... and 
 then you're done. But there are also some side missions, but all of them are basically the same, 
 capturing bases, taking over villages etc.
  
  One thing that probably bothered some players, actually amused me. The unrealistic elements, you're 
 able to drive a car and then jump up on the roof... and in some mysterious way, you're still able 
 to steer the vehicle. 
  The character ( la Antonio Banderas) is probably the strongest man in the world... since he's able 
 to hold himself onto a flying airplane wing... with one hand.
  
  
  
  
  Just Cause is by no doubts a good game. But you'll get tired of it pretty fast, since it's so short 
 and there's really not much to do on the island. 
  
  P. S they're working on a sequel. My tip is to look out for that one... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Philosophem
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 5:34 am PT
Review:  "I want to believe". Everyone who watched X-Files knows this phrase. While playing Just Cause I 
 wanted to believe, I really did, but its physic laws (or most likely the lack of them) are simply 
 unimaginable After seeing how Rico (the main character) in mid air manages to get a hold of flying 
 helicopter, jumps over to pilot's cabin (somehow ignoring the spinning rotor blades) , kicks out 
 the poor pilot and takes his place (all accomplished in single jump) I found that it is easier 
 to believe in aliens.
  
  The combat is way too easy. You won't feel big difference between weapons. Any SMG or MG type gun 
 will get you through the game, you can even use basic pistols with infinite ammo, as long as you 
 keep moving and shooting (and maybe tossing grenade or two)  you'll stay alive. You'll also be 
 able to use many guns mounted on vehicles, but aiming uses auto-lock system, same as in consoles 
 (it seems that SOMEONE has totally forgotten about thing called mouse) .
  
  There are plenty of things to do:
  
  Side missions  taking over villages/houses or doing some 
 small tasks. They are made really well and are quite different, but the advantages of completing 
 are useless. Why do you need more safehouses? What you will do with better guns when you can beat 
 the game with picked up SMG/MG guns from fallen enemies? The new cars Well that seems only thing 
 worth of attention or would seem if cars were a little more detailed and you could feel difference 
 between pickup truck and cabriolet.
  
  Races  it would be fun, it really would, but there is no sense of control in car.
  
  Collectables 
  yes, there are plenty of "collectable missions", there is even logical story behind each mission, 
 but the advantages are useless. Most of the time you won't bother picking up items near your location.
 
  
  The graphics are really good; cutscenes (in terms of graphics) are excellent: you get the feeling 
 of what San Esperito would look and feel in reality. Problem is that the whole island looks very 
 similar and after a while you understand that one side of island is almost identical to the other 
 one.
  
  Just Cause had all the chances to become equal (or very near it) to GTA series, but the lack of 
 efforts made it simply disappointing game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daxxter
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 2, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Well this game definitely sucks. The idea is great though, but it is poorly executed. 
  Graphics are very okay, but gunplay, driving and missions are really terrible. It's almost like 
 an arcade-game when you fire your guns, and when people die they kinda fly up in the air :S
  The handling of cars is annoying and unrealistic. Plus, it's a boring collection of vehicles. 
 
  The character is also kind of an original idea, but he is still too "clich"-alike. They try to 
 make him insanely cool, but.. He isn't. :) And his running style, wtf?
  
  Simply put: If you're like: "Hey, cool. an alternate GTA, wow!" then the answer is NO. 
  
  
 I recommend you stick to Rockstar and their great games. They really know how to take some critique 
 and make up for it in their next game. GTA gets better and better, but this...
  
  Well, this is trash. It's NOT a new and improved GTA. If you absolutely want to try it though, 
 then you should rent it first!
  
  /Out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3Dmajid2008
Rating: 7
Date: May 24, 2008 7:55 am PT
Review:  Why some people say that just cause is next version of GTA ?
  its very amazing that some body in my country say that just cause is next version after GTA : Vice 
 city !! OF course I don't know that is this happend in other country or not. But I begin review 
 of this Eidos work :
  Just Cause has nice graphic and real water and other things. I vote just cause for its graphic 
 because I don't love its game play much. I never feel that I am in the game and fight with enemys. 
 Just cause is a little unnatural because you have much health. I never love reload and shoot animation 
 of main player but I accept that car driving in this game is very enjoy and designed very well. 
 Some objectives aren't interesting. Totally I saw a nice graphic in Just Cause and don't admire 
 its game play and player animations.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Abhishek_010188
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 2, 2008 5:36 am PT
Review:  San Espirito is best seen from the sky and really it is. Its loaded with crazy fun , tons of missions 
 with a great storyline. The Stunts included in this game has rarely been executed in any other 
 games present till date and if it is present then please I request anyone who reads this review 
 to give me tha name of it. The environment, especially the see looks prolific.
  
  Lush green land surround you from every side. Sound effects are also crafted to perfection. Walking 
 on the grass & walking on the road has got to be different and it is different in the game to. 
 "VERY REALISTIC". Explosions in one word is beautiful. Totally Flawless. It has got a good story 
 line which grips you till the end. Gameplay is also brilliant. The ending is superb. The Climax 
 was ROCKING where he has to kill the President.
  
  All in all a Superb Rocking Game which has been clearly underrated. It is a must for every Gamer. The 
 Best Third Person Shooter I have ever played. Now I'm desperately waiting for Just Cause 2 scheduled 
 to be released at the end of this year. Till Then "VIVA LA REVOLUTION"
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _HAV0C_
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 28, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Before I get into detail, lets state the obvious: this is a bad attempt of placing Cuban James 
 Bond into GTA. You play in open world, completing the missions of an agent. May sound descent, 
 but here I explain why it sucks as bad as it does.
  
  Gameplay (2.0) : Terrain looks like it has been made by one developer in less than 2-3 days. All 
 'mansions' look exactly the same, and so do many houses/villages. Most (about 70 %) of the terrain 
 is trees, mountains or water. Transportation, despite 2 or 3 pretty interesting vehicles, sucks 
 completely. There are 10 to 15 vehicles in total (GTAIII had 35, vice city had about 60) ! It takes 
 forever to get to the mission, and once you do, you are disappointed by boredom, and frustrated 
 by deep retardation of game's artificial intelligence  if you are ever in a car chase, all the 
 pursuers will do is try to ram you off the road. They will keep ramming you even if you stop driving 
 and just sit it the car, for they are not smart enough to get out and start shooting. They never 
 move to avoid bullets, they'll just stand there and eat led, sometimes, rarely, attempting to aim 
 their weapons and actually attack you. All side missions are exactly the same, it's gonna drive 
 you f****** insane after doing 5 of them. The actual 'story' missions are not well connected by 
 game's story and fail to capture player's attention. And, for some reason not surprisingly at all, 
 weapons suck too. Difference between weapons is barely noticeable, as except for appearance you 
 will see no difference between 3 SMG's as you use them.
  
  Sound (1.0) : play it with your speakers off!! The music, the sound effects and the dialogue all 
 suck equally bad.
  
  Graphics (6.0) : !! (I played the game at maximum detail, 1280x1024 resolution) !! While still being 
 far from good, graphics manage to be 'fair'. Models are generally low-poly, but reflections and 
 water still look nice. Green vegetation looks good if you view the island from a plane or parachute, 
 that changes when you get up close though. Weapons look like it's 1998, complete absence of details 
 on the weapons, as expected. Pedestrians are repeated much more then they should be. Some characters 
 from main missions are supposed to be human, but were purposely drawn to look like animals, its 
 really disappointing that GS users can not use images in their reviews, but I kid you not, there 
 is an army general whose face looks like a frog!
  
  You should not spend even an hour of you valuable time playing 'this'. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: walrus8303
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 21, 2008 3:49 am PT
Review:  When I first started playing Just Cause I was impressed. The scenery of the tropical island was 
 great! I was just sitting there staring at the sea. And the stunts that you could do (which have 
 never been in any other game I know before) . Made me think that I was going to spend a great time 
 with Just Cause. And then all hell broke loose.
  
  The game idea is simple. You are an agent and you help a revolutionary act for the purposes of 
 your agency in a tropical ruled by a dictator. This is done either by attacking government control 
 villages, by overthrowing mob control estates and giving the control to people you handle. Moreover 
 there is a basic storyline where you have to accomplish certain missions. Here I must I confess 
 that I did not finish the game ( I got it almost at 60%) .
  
  Others things you can do in the game is accomplish side missions to get access to new weaponry 
 and find items (which are indicated in the map....)
  
  But now it is time to explain why I did not finished the game. A big mistake was that I played 
 the game expecting a GTA equivalent which it is NOT. SO first I realized that the cars behave strangely. 
 After a while I noticed that the car wheels sometimes where floating in the air... Minor bug as 
 after a while I got used to it. But I had to hear the same music every time I entered a vehicle 
 making it a painful experience after a while. Moreover I could not "learn" the roads of the island 
 as everyone was identical to the other. I always used the map.
  
  The MOST annoying thing in the game was the police. First of all as you were driving your car in 
 a road (without having anyone chasing you) you could hear the policemen shouting to other people 
 to stop. And it was like they were telling it to you. And it was done every time with the same 
 boring voice. "Stop it's the policia" said the voice. Oh my God if I listen to this again I'll 
 commit suicide! But let's supposedly say that this does not bother you. How about having the chase 
 meter to 0, and a chopper still shooting at you. You have no RPG to bring it down so you dive in 
 the water and you swim underwater (!!!) for 1000m. THE CHOPPER WAS SHOOTING ME ALL THAT TIME! Is 
 that STUPID or what?
  
  Finally the basic reason I quit Just Cause was that there was nothing to see in it. In GTA there 
 are cities, unique places to see, and when you were driving around you could say let's see what 
 is behind that building and expect to find anything. In Just Cause, cities was a copy paste and 
 had nothing to show. The same was about the island which was vast. But they could have made it 
 twice as big if the copy pasted the whole map once more. The game wouyld have been the same with 
 the double area to "explore". Why go at the other side of the island when you know what you will 
 see?
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface_u2
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 21, 2008 12:17 am PT
Review:  No wonder the public got bored of paying 40 quid to get dross like this
  
  Can you really be suprised that games get pirated?
  
  When you find that Avalanche still cant 
 be bothered to learn body movements
  
  Worst effort at body dynamics and shooting since Hitman in 2000 This games released 6 yrs after 
 and its pathetic
  
  The person you play moves like Jacko on crack
  
  Learn your art of developing before you sell such a waste of space Avalanche is a well named company 
 as i expect its getting hit with a lot of not so friendly reviews
  
  How Gamespot think this is "similar" to GTA i dont know Rockstar/take2 should sue you ha! ha
 
  
  This game deserves a - score and eidos must be desperate
  
  Its hard to explain anything good for this game its a waste of time
  
  Rubbish not even worth 
 a look in at the bargin bin just go back to the drawing board go play Halo or even Metal Gear to 
 get a clue how a game should be made
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EZERICW
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  Game has great visuals. The environment is enormous. I couldn't search the whole thing even in 
 a plane. Lots of missions and sidemissions and lots of shooting, running over people, racing (in 
 boats too) , flying, and tons of stunts. Only complaints are that you can only save in a few slots 
 and you can only save when you are in a safehouse or when you have completed a big mission. Other 
 complaint is that it would be nice if it was more RPG (GTA) -type gaming with more convos and you 
 could actually go into buildings and kill everyone. Also would have liked a in-game currency with 
 items you could purchase but again it doesn't take away from the game. I've completed many missions 
 involving a really good storyline. You work for the Guerillas to take down governent forces and 
 liberate towns. You also work for the Riojas, a big gang whose rivalry are the Montacos (or a similar 
 name) . Whenever you are promoted by the Guerillas you receive benefits such as a new safehouse 
 (containing a health station, ammo restock, new weapons, a special vehicle, and a save station) . 
 With the Riojas you also receive a new safehouse after being promoted. Since they're rich they 
 have fancy cars and helis for your disposal (which, come back btw) . In the game, you have a special 
 PDA in which you can read your current mission, look at the map (very important for missions, finding 
 races, and finding more missions) , a political map, an extraction point list where you can call 
 a heli to transport you peronally to any agency or Rioja safehouse. The PDA also has a vehicle 
 drop list containg 4 very good vehicles that you can unlock (a super-fast motorcycle, a car with 
 guns, and a boat and heli that I haven't unlocked yet) . The PDA also shows your ranks and stats. 
 Since the game is older and cheaper, now is a good time to buy it for as little as $5 (how much 
 I got it for) ! For as low as $5, you can grab a game with one of the biggest virtual, 100% explorable 
 environments, graphics comparable to even today's games, and days-months of missions and things 
 to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grall23
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2008 4:56 am PT
Review:  at first, just cause seems like a gta game where you can roam the city, and then do missions to 
 complete the story mode and side missions to earn money. this game is definetely copied from the 
 gta series. however, its gameplay is totally different and environment is much bigger. in gta, 
 you play a gangster trying to rule the city, in just cause, you play a hired agent trying to overthrow 
 the government to rule the city. but in just cause, you are working for the bad guys to overthrow 
 the corrupted government of san esperito. san esperito seems like a typical mediterranean island 
 with dense forests and white beaches but there is a war going on between the guerillas and the 
 government. if that is not complicated enough, there is a cartel war between the riojas and the 
 montanos, two drug cartels vying for control over the cocoa fields and drug businesses. just cause 
 allows you to do so much amazing stuff like hang off a helicopter, freefall into the sea from a 
 plane, and even airjacking vehicles straight out of the sky. it defies the laws of physics where 
 you can release your parachute metres off the ground while at terminal velocity and still fall 
 unharmed. you can even jump out of a helicopter through its blades and hang on with one hand. but 
 this unrealism does not seem half-baked, it still is fun and looks as real as possible. the island 
 of san esperito is so big that the only way to travel is by air, if you go by road or sea, you 
 have to navigate hopelessly through winding dirt roads or waterways. if you hit another vehicle, 
 the police will come and kill you. a bit unreal, but easy to get away from them nonetheless. there 
 are 90 vehicles to choose from and many more weapons. the story mode is fulfilling and the side 
 missions are plentiful but repetitive. even in a land vehicle, it is fun to drive around the well-planned 
 cities via large roads which are easy to navigate. once you drive onto the smaller dirt roads, 
 driving becomes a bore and is extremely hard to navigate. while cars and boats are fun, planes 
 and helicopters are better, there are military transport planes and commercial airliners in the 
 international airport on san esperito, which is easily hijacked and taken for a ride. in various 
 military bases, there are fighter jets, each with different abilities, some are slow but have homing 
 missiles and dual machine guns, while some are quick but hardly have good weapons at all. liberation 
 missions and side missions carried out for the riojas and guerillas are boring and repetitive, 
 but the rewards are worth it. you can unlock safehouses which allow you to restock ammo, regain 
 health, save the game and get new awesome vehicles ready. what i like most about the safehouses, 
 is that you can get aircraft from them without having to hijack them and anger the police. the 
 side missions where you run errands for the riojas and guerillas are not well thought out by the 
 developers. in some places, the drop-off point for the stolen goods are only accessible by aircraft. 
 while in some places you can do everything in a car. hence, you would probably only do missions 
 in those easily accessible places. in just cause, travelling by foot is by far the slowest i have 
 ever seen in a game, even going a short distance, it is faster to hijack a nearby vehicle than 
 run, because your character just does it so slowly.
  the game is full of bugs where some missions are impossible to complete and others will cause two 
 side missions to overlap and make them impossible to complete. sometimes, the text that appears 
 on the bottom of the screen does not go away, instead it stays there and the mission info does 
 not come up, making it frustrating at times. of all the people i know who play just cause, all 
 say it is awesome, but bugs are the biggest problem. in many forums i have seen people saying that 
 just cause crashes on its own and hangs every 10 minutes, and that this game has lousy, jerky controls. 
 just update your video drivers or upgrade your hardware! even on my 3 year old pentium 4 com, it 
 works perfectly, though settings are lowered. for the jerky controls, go get a proper keyboard 
 and mouse! i'm using a wireless set, and it works fine.
  overall, just cause is excellent and by far the best game i have played, so i have only one thing 
 to say. BUY JUST CAUSE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kazoo128
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Just Cause looks like a cool James Bond/Columbian Cartel type game on the box. Perhaps it does 
 even have some of that appeal, but here are just a few reasons NOT to buy it.
  
  Reason 1:
  There are NO patches for the game. The game doesn't work properly. And if you have 
 Windows Vista, you might as well throw in the towel because the sound doesn't even work. I have 
 Vista and am using one of the highly recommended sound card setups from the owner's manual. No 
 sound effects except on the movie clips and from vehicles = no fun and no point in game play. 
 
  
  
  Reason 2:
  This game came out in late 2006, yet the graphics- at their best- are dated. Actually the graphics 
 are probably one of the strong points considering the fact that music, ambience, and gun fire can't 
 be heard.
  
  Reason 3:
  The gun play, especially from moving vehicles, feels like a lame attempt to port a console game. 
 Your movement of the mouse, if within a quadrant of the screen will kill an enemy. The PC has had 
 mouse movement to move the camera for at least 10 years now. Welcome to the present Just Cause.
 
  
  Reason 4:
  The enemies are dumb. They stand and shoot at you in a stand still pose. What's worse is that they 
 can't even hit you.
  
  Reason 5:
  The game is too short. There's a reason why this game is only $20 and it's been out for barely 
 a year. 
  
  Reason 6:
  The voice acting and lip synching is awful. The script is stilted and cliched at best.
  
  Reason 
 7:
  Did I mention it doesn't work properly? After 30 minutes of gameplay- if you're able to play it 
 for that long- you can count on the game crashing. This happens at optimal times such as just before 
 save points or the loading of movies (a hint of sarcasm) . 
  
  So, to wrap things up. If you like games that don't have people working on their bugs; if you like 
 games where the gameplay is buggy, lame, dumb, and cliched; and if you like games that provide 
 no sense of reward- other than opening the box- then I would recommend this game to you. If, however, 
 you find that you don't like to throw your money into burning receptacles and you think that an 
 owner's manual's best use is not as toilet paper- I highly recommend that you DO NOT get this game. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aminal_basic
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 16, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Just Cause is full of action. From the very beginning you feel like your against impossible odds 
 and basically you are. It keeps you going and has for me at least made me lose track of time finding 
 myself at 4 in the morning wondering where the time has gone.
  I like the challenge it presents. You have to help take over a country, meaning except for 1 gang 
 and the rebels, all soldiers and cops are your enemy. What bugs me is if you accidently hit some 
 idiot that is on your side but walks in front of you, ( the AI definitely could use some work here) 
 you will be attacked by those that are supposed to be on your side. At times healing packs are 
 at a minimum or non existant which can be real bad in a heavy firefight. Be extra careful when 
 taking over towns etc. on foot as your supposed friends will run you over with their vehicles killing 
 you instantly. Saves are done at safe-houses whether they be gang, agency or rebel. That's nice 
 but not when you are in the middle of nowhere and are being attacked by 5 or 6 choppers that come 
 out of midair all around you. There is a no win situation for you, even if you blow up the choppers 
 ( helicopters) more appear. There seems to be a never ending supply of teleporting choppers.
  The main missions are for the most part frustrating to the extreme. You can be expected to be killed 
 a lot during the majority of the later ones but they allow for this. You will continue at the last 
 checkpoint rather then your last save. If they didn't do this it would be a lesson in futility 
 , I died 15 times during one main mission before I was lucky enough to get a couple health packs. 
 The game is fun and fustrating. I'm actually enjoying it overall and would recommend it because 
 it is a lot of fun. It's pretty big also. at normal play I don't know anyone who would be able 
 to do all the side missions and main missions in less than at least 2 days ( 24-36 play hours) .
 
  Enjoy the game, It may make you swear at it a lot but the stunts, races and missions make for a 
 variety of things to do. Enough so that it's fun and will give many hours of good play time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 12, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  This game had the potential to be Far Cry 2 with many improvements. However, it failed to do so 
 because of some of its ridicilous missions and the combat style. 
  
  I was looking forward to playing it but as soon as I started the fighting I thought ;what the Hell???' 
 Fighting is ridicilous and shooting is just like playing a mario platform game from 10 years ago. 
 
  
  However, I stuck through that bit. I almost quit playing it after that as I was so disappointed 
 but I had nothing better to do and I stuck with it. 
  
  It turned out to have many brilliant ideas of collecting stuff, helicopters, the parachute, simply 
 WOW on the ideas. Jumping from car to car attaching yourself to vehicles so they can drag you while 
 your chuting after them, absolutely brilliant ideas.
  
  So, I do recommend this game but only after you've played all the good games currently on offer 
 and no new brilliants games have come out. It doesn't mean it is appaling, the game is quite good 
 but there are many better ones and you should only play this one after you've played the better 
 ones, so its turn should come, just perhaps you shouldn; t through everything else aside and play 
 this game. 
  
  Have fun playing and enjoy it as it is. 
  
  I ranked Overlord as 8 and this game is funwise same as overlord but I would have to mark it is 
 8.3 because it did require more work than Overlord. 
  
  However, as I cannot rank it as 8.3 but have to choose between 8 and 8.5 I will rank it 8 as there 
 are many things it failed to achieve, despite many innovative ideas that future developers could 
 learn from. Marking it as 8.5 would be too close to 9 for my comfort and 9 is in vicinity of 10 
 and that is reserved for legendary games which this game could definetely have been but unfortunately 
 failed to do so, but is still a pretty good game that will surprise you pleasantly with some ideas. 
 
  
  
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing if you have nothing 
 else to play
  6 - worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely 
 anything else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 as if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10) .
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life.
  
  Best Wishes to everyone,
  
  Zak
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: erterer100
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Most poeple say that you're only 6 hours playing the storyline, i completed it in 12 hours, maybe 
 because i only got 256 MB RAM and im terribly bad in playing this game, after completing the storyline, 
 the're's still a lot to do, you can go capture towns, bases, villa's and killing the local population 
 but the side missions clearly ehhhrm suck, the haven't got cutscene's and the objective is always: 
 pick/ steal that, bring it to that place and return back...
  One of the things in this game that no other game in the world get is a HUGE, HUGE landscape to 
 explore and the over the top stunts are fun to do either, you can jump from vechicle to vechicle 
 and attach yourself to a vechicle with a grappling hook.
  
  Good game, except the side missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toolzz360
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  This game was fun for a little while, but the driving in the game is terrible. The vehicle you 
 are driving always looses control, the airplanes and helicopters are very hard to drive, and their 
 is no sense of speed in the game. The single player campaign is okay. The action is pretty intense 
 and over the top when their is action, but most of the time is spent driving from location to location. 
 You can get an extraction which will bring you straight to the point you want to go. I only played 
 the first half of the campaign and I couldn't finish it. There is no storyline what-so-ever.
  4/10
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics were pretty good considering I don't have a top end computer. 
 You could see outlines of foliage which wasn't there which is annoying but doesn't hurt the game 
 experience.
  8/10
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound of explosions and the action in the game is pretty good. The voice acting is also pretty 
 good. 7/10
  
  Value:
  
  I played this as part of gametap. It is good for there, but I would never pay 40 bucks for this 
 i wouldn't even pay 10 bucks for this.
  
  4/10
  
  Tilt:
  
  This game has its good and bad, but the bad outweighs the good. it is no where near GTA or Saints 
 Row. It is a subpar sandbox game.
  5/10
  
  Score=5.6 rounded to 5.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_angry_amish
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 6:48 am PT
Review:  Ok, so to be real and honest, I bought this game from Russia along with a bunch of others off eBay. 
 I am pretty sure that it was blackmarket, but oh well. I got it cheap. And it's a good thing that 
 I did, otherwise this game would have been a severe disappointment. I played the demo and it seemed 
 like it was going to be amazing. The physics and the storyline seemed like it would set it apart 
 from other GTA-esque games. I was wrong. Aside from a series of small tweaks and mods, it was exactly 
 the same thing I would see from GTA: Cuba if such a game existed. Oh well, I got it cheap, like 
 I said... it's fun to play some of the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NaDoLnY
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I play this game with 2 effects on, 1024x768 with all LOW settings, because actually 
 my pc is crappy... but even without great graphics (because the game has wonderful graphics on 
 the PC and 360... this game stills great. It has a beautiful environment, wonderful graphics, good 
 gameplay and the soundtrack is amazing. The only problem I found in this game is the police. Anything 
 you do the police is on your ass, but that's not a big problem... You are free in this game, you 
 can do whatever you want, the islands are HUGE with beautiful forests, the sea is magnific and 
 the explosions are beautiful. This game is very like Mercenaries, but more fun. So, if you want 
 a sandbox style game, where you can go anywhere, anytime, do CRAZY stunts, and all this kind of 
 things, you can't miss it. I remeber when this game was released last year, I saw it and said just 
 another crappy game but I was FOOL! You gotta try this one... here are the ratings:
  
  Graphics-&gt; 10
  Gameplay-&gt; 9.0
  Sound-&gt; 10
  Fun-&gt; 10
  
  Final Rating-&gt; 
 9.5
  
  I hope you liked my review... please rate it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bladeshock
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 29, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  A grand Theft Auto clone which delivers nothing new and revolutionary and even fails to keep up 
 with the standard of old and re-used ideas. Just Cause was a game that made a few promises and 
 never delivered on many fronts. A very sloppy and awkward control and targetting system, which 
 is bogged down with extremely simplistic gameplay make Just Cause a game you won't ever remember 
 once you've finished playing through... should you ever wish to do so. The only saving grace Just 
 Cause has is it's beautiful backgrounds and locations as well as a variety of available vehicles 
 and weapons to choose from. All in all it's a mildly fun game, which should keep you occupied for 
 a week or two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JASONNoonan
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 28, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  When i fist downloaded the demo i thought no i would never play this, But, when i rented this out 
 it blew me away. Okay it is over the top and totally throws all though of reality out the window 
 to a certain extent. But when your jumping out of a helicopter so high you can see the hole island 
 you just sit and really take in this breathtaking, astonishing graphic paradise that has been created. 
 Car driving is a bit sloppy but you really dont care because it just adds to the difficulty and 
 the fun of going off road and flying off cliffs. Basically this game is for someone with a love 
 for a HUGE island where they can go anywhere anytime, someone who just loves to have fun in a game 
 and for someone who loves beautiful graphics. I definently fall in that category 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chainsawjesus
Rating: 3.7
Date: Jul 26, 2007 6:41 am PT
Review:  The initial impressions of Just Cause were promising. What we expected was a GTA series clone with 
 some added extras that would keep us interested.
  What we got though was far away from even the initial PS2 release of GTA 3 Liberty City and more 
 closer to a rushed game that focused more on the environments and little on the actual game play 
 and physics.
  
  It starts exciting enough, jumping from a plane, free-falling to a target zone to get straight 
 into the action, and from this point onwards I was left feeling a little but bemused. The AI proved 
 to be potentially one of the best examples of rubbish AI. It doesn't get better in any mode of 
 play.
  
  The physics were perhaps slightly worse than the AI in that they were near on non-existent. This 
 was apparent the minute you start playing, your first shoots of your beefy gun lift the victim 
 into the air as if they are sitting on a quick release pogo stick........ a one off??? nope every 
 character that you shoot, and no matter where you shoot them, be it head, leg foot etc. they will 
 hop in the air.
  This really took the fun out of the play within maybe 5 minutes of play. How much fun can you possible 
 have when each gun battle plays out like some sort of jump and drop battle, very little that is 
 for sure. The vehicles proved to be more hassle than they are worth. I won't dwell, but it was 
 bad. What was good however was the grapple gun, a neat idea, shoot it at a moving vehicle and hey 
 presto your being pulled along like a para-glider, and this grapple function is what I believe 
 actually sold copies of this game.
  
  The mission are tediously similar and lose appeal after a few goes, so instead you will no doubt 
 find yourself trying to find cool new stuff like you could in GTA, into the wilderness and you 
 find a Monster Truck..... but nope, not with Just Cause, just endless wandering in nothingness. 
 I thought maybe a patch would of been released to fix at least the jumping victims, maybe that 
 would make it feel more accessible, but no, what you buy is what you get and what you get is not 
 very good.
  
  The graphics however are not to bad, lush environments, nice character models etc, but without 
 depth and game play these all mean nothing. It may have some appeal to younger gamers but for anyone 
 that has played GTA or anyone that just plain enjoys gaming with depth then this should be avoided. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celawyn
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 9, 2007 4:50 am PT
Review:  Absolutely beautiful visuals!!! Reasonably good missions, great weapons and awesome fun stunts!!!
 
  
  A couple of drawbacks include random stuttering on the PC version after a couple hours game play 
 and the steering of vehicles over than aircraft is a bit tricky and you can lose can control of 
 ground vehicles quite easily.
  
  I've spent most of my time just driving around causing mayhem and trying to take over as much of 
 the island as possible... The island is freakin' huge!!! Takes lengthy amounts of time to get to 
 destinations but that's half the fun... Explosions look stunning in Just Cause and the abundance 
 of explosive weapons and vehicles with mounted weapons make it travelling all worth while.
  
  The enemy AI is crap... Enemies simply stand there and get shot by you and their aim if woeful... 
 Basically then only time they will kill you is if they accidentally run you over or if you raid 
 a military base; all hell breaks loose and you are assaulted with ridiculous amounts of weaponry!
 
  
  I purchased this game off Steam for $29.95 (American) ... But I'm in beautiful Australia so it probably 
 cost around $35.00-$40.00 not sure what the exchange figure is. Anyway, great value for a game 
 where you can pretend to be James Bond via performing crazy stunts in James-Bond-like vehicles. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofwarfan2929
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 27, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Just Cause Is Really Ambitious Even From The Beginning!
  The Difficulty Is Just Right The A. I Isnt As Dumb As I Thought It Would Be...
  I Spent At Least 
 40-100 Hours Playing This Great Game.
  The Controls Are A Bit Tough But You'll Get Used Too Them When You Play It For 1 to 2 Hours.
 
  The Gameplay Is Good Its Original And Violent At The Same time!
  The Graphics Are Superior For A Game Like This
  The Soundtrack Is Kind Of Hard To Follow But 
 Good Music, Anyways
  The Value Is The Worst Thing Its Not Worth It At Al $40 Dollars Is For A Brand Spanking NEW Game.
 
  Not Some 6 Months Out Game.
  Overall Good Game, Horrible Value 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hakensou
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 11, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  Well undoubtedly this game is a remix of the GTA series...
  In most games, this would be a disappointing aspect, but in this one it's quite interesting what 
 the Label did.
  I really enjoyed the game. It's got a very fluid gameplay, the graphics are very good (if you catch 
 an air ride, you can enjoy some amazing backgrounds, like for example a beautiful sunset among 
 other things) .
  It's an easy game to learn how to play and it brings a few new moves to this kind of gaming.
 
  The game story isn't very elaborated, so it gets a little boring.
  Still, the concept of freedom fighting (mixed with working for a drug cartel) is very interesting 
 and compensates for the short story.
  It's immense number of usable cars, bikes, choppers and planes is also a very good aspect of the 
 game. That plus the fact that you can hijack choppers in mid-air, makes the game easier and more 
 enjoyable.
  Of course not all is good about this game... I found a few issues during play, like for example, 
 the fact that I freed a couple of towns even though I failed to achieve the settlement goals in 
 the campaign.
  
  But still, the game's worth playin' if you're a fan of the GTA series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 6.2
Date: Aug 5, 2007 10:45 pm PT
Review:  As many GTA clones, Just Cause copies the gameplay of those successfull series. I've played a lot 
 of GTA clones: some were good, some were bad. Just Cause's playground is the jungle. The map is about 
 7-8 times bigger than the world in GTA San Andreas,&amp; that's something. So, the main story is 
 about helping the guerilla kill gouvernment guys &amp; finnally, El Presidente. The secondary missions 
 consist in freeing a settlement from gouverment rule. Simple: with the help of some guys, kill enamies, blow 
 up blocades &amp; cars &amp; finnally capture the flag. Others will be like: kill him, deliver this, or 
 something similar. Once captured a settlement, you have a safehouse there, a new car/bike. You can 
 steal cars/bikes from the road, take planes or helicopters, etc. Pursuits are very intense &amp; full 
 of stunts: parachute youreself on cars, get on your car &amp; jump on the other, etc. Very nice. But 
 all the world will get boring, what didn't happen in San Andreas. Weapons? Nothing special. But the 
 control of cars is really annoying. The lanscapes are really the best seen from the air, but from 
 ground, well, not really.&amp; the damage engine is dissaoppointing, but the cutscenes are greatly 
 made. But the explosions are trully superb. Sound is good, but the lack of a real soundtrack is disturbing. Voice 
 acting is OK. The sound of explosions is again great. The story is not great, but at least interesting 
 &amp; quite long. It's a good game, but I've seen some better GTA clones than Just Cause, like Scarface-The 
 World is Yours, The Godfather, etc. Mafia is the best of all action games, but I don't consider it 
 a GTA clone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 27, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Just Cause may seem like a GTA clone, well, it is a GTA clone but it brings a nice wellwrapped 
 package with it, its large exotic maps and hardcore action, and somewhat innovative gadgets makes 
 it a game worth a try if you are into freeroaming action games, or into GTA.
  
  Gameplay:
  Innovative, as it being just another game in the freeroaming genre it brings stuff 
 like hooks and parachutes and interactivity with vehicles gives the game its own unique aspect 
 to the game, the game mixes GTA with over-the-top action what only stuntmans can do, which makes 
 the game fun.
  
  Theres a decent learning curf on using the hook (used to clunk yourself onto vehicles whilst using 
 a parachute) and moving while hanging on you're parachute, the gameplay is just fun and can last 
 for many hours if you're into it.
  
  One complaint is that the vehicles controles are slippery, I don't have total control of them after 
 can easily slip of the road and crash into somebody.
  
  Graphics:
  Graphic-wise, it looks pretty good, not the best Xbox 360 game, but average will do it, the game 
 looks exotic, but also has some sub-urban parts, the vehicles look pretty flashy and retro (note 
 the massive amount of those Volkswagen vans in the game) and look good on road, Rico and other 
 characters look realistic enough for me, but the mainpart for the graphics are the tropical and 
 exotic island views.
  
  Story:
  You are Rico, some latino guy whose quest it is to assassinate some people which involves some 
 dictators, the campaign is short, you'll play it out in a few spare hours you have, atleast I did 
 tho.
  
  AI:
  People seem to like to chase you alot, mostly vehicles and sometimes in helicopters, on ground 
 people run and shoot alot, its rather easy and not that challenging, I was hoping there was somekind 
 of difficulty setting you could choose.
  
  Is it a good freeroaming game:
  It lacks in some stuff, but its worth a try if you are a fan of GTA or just other freeroaming games, 
 if you can handle all the action and Oh-my-god moments, atleast play the demo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_swordfish
Rating: 4.4
Date: May 23, 2007 12:00 am PT
Review:  Seemed like a game primarily designed for the Xbox360, the behavior implies that the PC received 
 but a weak port. A game used to be most fun when the controls worked. But extremely sluggish vehicle 
 handling does not replace driving physics, and polished visuals do not justify this obvious lack 
 of innovation. My first impression was that the developers had started a process of designing a 
 game with lots of love for the visual detail, and that it was either the lack of effective management 
 or simply the lack of time which prevented the game from delivering. A shame actually, this game 
 could have been even more fun, were it not for shortages like almost laughable glitches, monotonous 
 side missons , lack of controller support for the PC version (come on..!) and a few more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkdesires
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 17, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  Just cause has incredible graphics mixed with some horrible textures that can't get unnoticed, 
 but cause of the great graphics you won't mind much with this, the sound effects of guns and other 
 things are good, particulary the weapons sound, the sound track does little to get noticed so you 
 won't really care about the sound track in just cause.
  The game its a GTA like game, so it as a long single player campaign, but for the ones who are 
 thinking damn just cause looks awsome, a GTA with great graphics. you'll be dissapointed when playing 
 the game since just cause its like GTA but does not deliver that big sense of liberty that GTA 
 does.
  The weak point on just cause its probably the gameplay, driving a car or a motocicle can be really 
 annoying, shooting your guns, walking, running its simple and effective, when the character jumps 
 into water he does not dive in water, he just jumps and for magic starts swimming.
  Just cause its a good game and a worth playing but think twice before spending a lot of money in 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poljancewicz
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 10, 2007 4:03 am PT
Review:  Well, just cause is a good game, GREAT graphics, I loved going up with helicopters and looking 
 the island from above, that was really great.
  
  Good things:
  Great graphics
  Very entertaining
  You can do nice stunts
  Lots of vehicles
  Lots of guns
  A very biiiiiig 
 map all for you
  ...
  
  Bad things:
  The main story of the game was bad (I didnt like it) and really really short
  The secondary missions 
 are always the same boring thing
  The handling of cars and bikes, specially bikes, because the camera moves with you and its hard 
 to drive..
  ...
  
  Those are the main things i can remember right now...
  So when you finish the main story... there is no much things you can do.. only the same secondary 
 missions and getting objects, and then just mess around... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scout1011
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 8, 2007 11:05 pm PT
Review:  Pretty much the actual game (missions etc) aren't all THAT great, but they are still fun to do. 
 The main point of this game is the cruise. Jets, helicopters, small planes, boats... all spread 
 over a frankly huge map is breath-taking. The graphics have a few glitches here and there but overall 
 the presentation is stunning. Cruising the sky in a jet, casually bombing settlements, then finding 
 other secret areas in the game is great, and really fun. All this to the soundtrack of casual Spanish 
 like guitar. I recommend this game to anyone who isn't all uptight about a games actual PURPOSE, 
 but just look for a good experience, regardless of the storyline or mission gameplay. Just Cruise... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TemplaerDude
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 6, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Just Cause is an undeniably beautiful and fun game [at least for the first few hours] but after 
 a while you realize it could have been so much more. The developers created an incredibly large 
 space for you blow stuff up in, and that's about all you'll do.
  
  There is a story in the game about the government and you overthrowing it or something or other 
 but it's weak and poorly implemented into the overall game. All you do is blow stuff up. The main 
 character is relatively boring; they tried hard to give him some personality but he comes off as 
 really bland and needlessly macho about the entire situation.
  
  The graphics are absolutely beautiful, you'll probably spend an hour or two just gallivanting around 
 the islands staring at the different scenery, and they pull it off on reasonably low specifications 
 as well.
  
  The gameplay is where it really begins to suffer after a while. It starts off incredibly fun blowing 
 up and killing whatever you want, but it gets very, very bland just doing that 50+ times to 'liberate' 
 a village and you find out it doesn't really vary to much from this. The cars in the game are also 
 almost entirely the same, they look very boring and they all handle pretty much the same. It also 
 seems that they skimped entirely on the artificial intelligence, the enemies are incredibly stupid. 
 Flying around is pretty fun and parachuting into an objective is not only cool but can be useful, 
 but that too develops a certain staleness after a while. The game would have been awesome if they 
 could have come up with different objectives than [what seems like] the two or three different 
 ones you can play around with the entire time, unfortunately you're stuck with what they give you 
 and it just... gets.... boring.
  
  The music is also cool at first but gets really, really annoying after a while. Each time you hop 
 in a car you'll usually be greeted with the same song every time and it gets really monotonous 
 after a while.
  
  In the end, Just Cause is probably an awesome rental and good cheap buy, but the the potential 
 here is washed up with repetitive gameplay, dumb A. I. and a poor story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ofensatul
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 17, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  How should I begin ? Well first of all i would like to say I enjoyed this game alot and played 
 it like a maniac for some time. The exotic locations are very refreshing nothing beats an action 
 game with incredible flexibility and a tight exotic location. Yes the game reminds us of GTA but 
 then again it brings alot of new stuff. The game doesen`t stick to the average real situations 
 because the many crazy stunts , the bumps , etc.. are so unreal. But if you can get past that you 
 will really enjoy it and have lots of fun. The storyline is OK , the lines between the characters 
 is very fun , and our hero`s outfit what can I say just blends in. The graphical engine is ok , 
 the control is pretty rough.. but other than that we have a winner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lkuey
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 4, 2007 5:20 am PT
Review:  A very good game, but the stunts aren't real, and it does get boring. Very hard as well. I'm stuck 
 on the level Fields Of Dreams . Another thing, is the graphics. If you don't know what to buy, 
 - get this. Easy learning to play, you'll play it for a long time. It is very hard though. The 
 names of levels aren't superb, because they are a bit babyish chapters (the names of course) . If 
 you have collected nearly all of the Grand Theft Auto series, this is the closest you can get. 
 In fact, you can call it Grand Theft Auto: San Esperito. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 25, 2007 3:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is somewhat of a mixed bag of good and bad. It is not one of my favorite 3rd person shooters 
 after I played it but I did enjoy it mostly while i was playing it. The graphics on this game are 
 very good at least on the enviroments and vehicles, the character design and enemies all look pretty 
 crap. In the cutscenes as well the characters all have a low polygonal look to them. The water 
 effects and day night cycle all are really pretty tho. I like how you can see the coral reefs underneath 
 the water when you are speeding over them in a boat. The sound effects and music in the game are 
 ok nothing really special though. The gameplay on this game is ok.. it seems that combat in this 
 game is pretty much filler tho since you are just blowing away most all enemies you see and they 
 can never really damage you very badly except near the end of the game. Driving vehicles and doing 
 stunts are quite a bit of fun. You can hang on the tail of a helicopter then jump inside or parachute 
 out of any flying vehicle. The collection missions are kindof fun to since u can just drive your 
 helicopter around finding all the stuff, but they are marked on the map so it makes it very easy. 
 The game is very short to, I completed it in about 12 hours and thats after I did all the side 
 collection missions, i didnt do everything though because the game takes up 8 gigs of hard drive 
 space so I wanted to finish it so I could remove it. Its a good game but I would wait until its 
 cheaper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIGAKILL
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 24, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  This game has the best graphics I've seen on the 360 yet, the landscape is vast and has emmense 
 graphics. The explosions and fire are very impressive for a game. The explosions especially are 
 good because of how good they look and the massive feedback you get in the vidration of the controller, 
 as well as the sound created by the explosion. Sound is pretty good, nothing too impressive except 
 for some elements in the game. The gameplay however was not as great as everything else. The driving 
 is especially annoying sometimes because the cars drive so unreal-like. The physics are not very 
 good for the cars. The physics for the flying vehicles are good, again, nothing special but easy 
 to grasp and fun to play with. There wasn't much of a story present in the game, it was basically 
 about trying to rid of the government currently in place by assassinating the president. There 
 are other things to do though instead of the story missions like side missions, takeover missions, 
 races, and collecting missions. This game does not have much to it except for missions. There is 
 no money, or other things like that you would find in a Grand Theft Auto game. Even if it was not 
 meant to be like a GTA game it is still fun, just know it is nowhere near one. It is fun to play 
 and there are a lot of stuff to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenTom
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 11, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  Suspension of disbelief is such a fundamental part of the video game experience that we often take 
 it for granted. Multiple lives and first-aid kits that instantly mend whatever ails you are conventions 
 that we accept without batting an eye, even in games that purport to have realistic settings. That 
 said, Just Cause is a visceral third-person action game with some outrageous action that will require 
 an extra helping of that suspension of disbelief to be able to enjoy. But, if you can get past 
 the infeasibility of a man hanging onto the tail of a flying jet with one hand, you might find 
 a lot to like in Just Cause.
  
  Though the broad structure of Just Cause is copped from the Grand Theft Auto series, the game also 
 shares certain characteristics with Mercenaries and Pursuit Force. The game takes place on the 
 fictional Caribbean island of San Esperito. You play as the black-clad Rico Rodriguez, an amused 
 but detached character who in no small way evokes Antonio Banderas' mariachi character from Desperado. 
 Rico comes to San Esperito to help overthrow Salvador Mendoza, a corrupt dictator in league with 
 the Montano drug cartel. With you are Sheldon, a Hawaiian-shirt-wearing, Joe Don Baker-type who 
 has a way of saying Spanish phrases like El Presidente with a pronounced twang, and Kane, a comparatively 
 bland tough girl with a lot of sass and some vague history with Rico. With the assistance of the 
 People's Revolutionary Army of San Esperito, as well as the rival Riojas drug cartel, your aim 
 is to dismantle the existing regime through assassination, espionage, and plenty of mayhem.
  
  The island of San Esperito is huge, and though there are a few urbanized areas, including a 
 small high-rise district, several military installations, seaports, and airports, most of San Esperito 
 is blanketed in undeveloped rainforest that is peppered with crude settlements. Its size is a little 
 deceptive, since there's not much to be done in the huge tracts of forest, but it all feels organic, 
 and the scope of the island is still impressive. You're given a good feel for the size of the island, 
 as well as some of Rico's more unconventional skills, right off the bat, as you start off the game 
 by jumping out of a plane at several thousand feet. You can control Rico's speed and direction 
 a bit while in freefall, and you can instantly deploy a parachute at the tap of a button, which 
 slows you down enough to make a safe landing and frees up your hands to hold any one of the weapons 
 you might have on you. The parachute system is just one of many absurd contrivances in Just Cause. 
 There's no limit to how often you can deploy your parachute, it doesn't seem to take up any space 
 on your person, and it never gets snagged on obstacles like trees, buildings, or streetlamps. In 
 Grand Theft Auto fashion, Just Cause lets you commandeer just about any vehicle you see, including 
 boats, planes, and helicopters, provided you can get close enough to it. Once you're behind the 
 wheel, most vehicles have a stunt position, which forces you to relinquish control but lets you 
 jump onto other nearby vehicles and take control of them or deploy your parachute, which will jerk 
 you back up into the air. After a few missions, you're given a grappling gun, which you can use 
 to hook onto vehicles from a few hundred meters away. Grappling onto a moving vehicle will cause 
 your parachute to automatically deploy, making it possible to parasail around the island. Perhaps 
 most impressively, you can use the grappling hook to skyjack helicopters and planes while they're 
 in the air. Using these mechanics well can take some getting used to, as a lot of the action buttons 
 are contextual, and the only way to tell if you're able to pull off certain moves is when the onscreen 
 text descriptions of the action buttons change. So the button used for jumping to another vehicle 
 from the stunt position is the same for simply jumping out of your vehicle depending on the situation, 
 and if you're not paying extra-close attention to the onscreen text descriptions, you'll end up 
 on foot rather than on the desired vehicle. There's also a certain amount of contempt for the laws 
 of physics in Just Cause. Perhaps the most absurd example is the ability to hop back and forth 
 from the cockpit of a moving helicopter to the stunt position on the helicopter's tail, passing 
 right through the spinning blades every time. You'll also find that you can deploy your parachute 
 just feet from the ground without any harm, and you can go directly from a terminal-velocity freefall 
 into a stunt position on a vehicle, even going in a direction completely contrary to your momentum 
 as long as the vehicle is close enough. The game doesn't even bother trying to justify any of this 
 craziness, and it will no doubt annoy those expecting even a modicum of realism, but once you figure 
 out how to effectively use these abilities to seamlessly grapple onto a car, take control of it, 
 get into stunt position as you drive it off a cliff, deploy your parachute as you watch the car 
 explode in the ravine below you, grapple onto an attacking helicopter and take it over, then freefall 
 directly into the warm Caribbean waters surrounding San Esperito, it makes the action uniquely 
 visceral and extremely satisfying.
  
  It's lucky for Just Cause that it's able to differentiate itself from other, similar games with 
 these ridiculous abilities, since some of the other facets of the gameplay aren't nearly as inspired. 
 In all of the console versions of Just Cause, there's a liberal autotargeting system that only 
 asks that you be pointing in the general direction of an enemy, which makes the gunplay a bit too 
 easy. By comparison, the PC version defaults to a mouse-and-keyboard setup, though even then the 
 gunplay is pretty forgiving and not especially satisfying. The most unique aspect of the gunplay 
 is the ability to detonate grenades early by shooting them in the air, though it's about as hard 
 to do as it sounds and rarely figures too prominently into the action. Save for a few specific 
 planes, the vehicles control well enough, but the enemy artificial intelligence can be frustratingly 
 tenacious, with a knack for spinning out your car and stopping you dead in your tracks.
  
  The main mission of taking down Salvador Mendoza is relatively short, and if you're focused, you 
 can burn through it in well under five hours. Missions are usually heavy with checkpoints, which 
 means that if you die in the middle of a mission, you'll automatically start from the most recent 
 checkpoint rather than from scratch. As long as you're not in the middle of a mission, you can 
 be extracted to the starting point of your next mission at the touch of a button. The nature of 
 the missions is predictable. The crazy parachute and grappling-gun mechanics can make the how of 
 these missions much more interesting, but save for a few rather spectacular moments during the 
 endgame, it's a lot of assassinate this guy, steal this item, blow up this building -- there are 
 rarely any big twists or turns.
  
  Just Cause has the open-world GTA structure, but there's not a wealth of activities to take on 
 outside of the completely linear main story. There are dozens and dozens of side missions you can 
 take on for the guerillas and the Riojas drug cartel, which can net you new safe houses, weapons, 
 and vehicles, but they're rarely more inventive than what's on offer in the primary missions. Theoretically, 
 you'll do these side missions concurrently with the main missions, with the extra hardware from 
 the side missions making the main missions easier, but the main missions are easy enough on their 
 own that it's a moot point. But then, you can have a good deal of fun with Just Cause simply goofing 
 around with taking in the sights of San Esperito, which really does look and feel like a choice 
 vacation spot with its beautiful greenery, white sand beaches, and clear blue waters. The Xbox 
 360 version gives you additional incentive to explore San Esperito with achievement points. You'll 
 get a fair number by playing through the different missions, but there are also achievements for 
 killing a number of enemies, performing a number of different types of stunts, or pulling off daring 
 feats like base jumping for 1,000 meters. There are a lot of different unique achievements, and 
 you could soak up a lot of time trying to earn every last one. The use of achievements is just 
 one of the reasons that the Xbox 360 version of Just Cause is the best version. Though the game's 
 use of motion blur and light bloom can be a little overwhelming at times, the 360 version has the 
 most stable frame rate, the clearest textures, and the cleanest overall look. The PC and Xbox versions 
 are close in terms of fidelity, though we couldn't get the PC version to run in a wide-screen aspect 
 ratio, and the Xbox version ran at a noticeably lower resolution with a more erratic frame rate. 
 Additionally, we found no apparent way to opt for gamepad controls in the PC version. While the 
 Xbox, PC, and Xbox 360 versions are comparable, the PlayStation 2 version feels compromised. The 
 draw distance is much closer, there's a distracting amount of pop-in, textures look comparatively 
 flat and grainy, and the frame rate regularly chugs. Though there's not much perceptible difference 
 in terms of the actual content of the different versions of Just Cause, the PS2 version's technical 
 shortcomings make it much harder to recommend.
  
  Complementing the game's equatorial vibe is a fantastic soundtrack that meshes classical Spanish 
 guitars with electronic beats, blaring trumpets, and surf and wah-wah guitars. Though there are 
 only a handful of different tunes in the game, it uses them effectively, kicking in right before 
 a firefight or a high-speed chase, imbuing all the action with a good deal of extra enthusiasm. 
 It's unfortunate that the rest of the sound design isn't as good as the music. Rico's footsteps 
 stand out as sounding especially flat on a lot of surfaces, and some of the weapon fire comes across 
 as weak. The voice acting is also somewhat inconsistent. Your character is perhaps a little too 
 dry for his own good, and some of the San Esperitians you'll encounter sound like lame caricatures, 
 though the voice of Sheldon is right on, which is good since he talks more than any other character 
 in the game.
  
  Just Cause will evoke strong love-it-or-hate-it reactions from people for a lot of reasons. The 
 game's amoral stance on the complicated issues surrounding US-sponsored regime changes in third-world 
 countries will rub some people the wrong way, while others will be annoyed by its fast-and-loose 
 approach to basic physics. Even though it doesn't get some of the particulars right, Just Cause 
 can still be engaging simply because of the risks it's willing to take. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brain20035
Rating: 6.2
Date: Feb 7, 2007 12:07 am PT
Review:  WOW!!!
  the first word most of you might say when you observe the great graphics in this game. a very great 
 tropical island field with green fields and surrounded by shining water with some fresh air... i 
 think i went so far!!!
  anyways, to cut a long story short, graphics in this game are B E A utiful (tm) !!!
  sounds are 
 just ok!
  the gameplay... is not so ok!
  you see, this game is a total imitation of gta! so whatever that you could find in gta can be found 
 here too (except some things!!!)
  there are 5 or more new moves added like getting off the car using a parachute
  ,etc.
  it seems 
 as this game is just plain fun but it is not. the most regrettable problem is that the missions 
 will be quite the same after you play the game for about an hour or two. you know were I'm about 
 to get to! you just feel like you're doing the same thing over and over again!!! and plus that 
 the not so very small variety of bugs in the game's driving system makes it ultra boring! there 
 are times you should drive across all the island to get to a place and it really sucks!
  that's why you should open your eye's for new safe houses so you can get there with a chopper and 
 continue on with a shorter distance to the destination.
  all together the makers tried to make it a great game but it just isn't! the gta will be repeated 
 by no one but rockstar games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 17, 2007 1:00 am PT
Review:  JUST CAUSE Rocks in Action. Its a third person shooter game. You are Rico and you have to overthrow 
 the corrupt government of imaginary tropical paradise San Esperito with help of local rebels. Just 
 Cause is a descent GTA clone and sometimes surpasses GTA series in action. You get lots of cool 
 vechiles (land , water ,air) , weapons and more of stylish action in the game. The parachute dive 
 by the hero looks awesome. The game has good soundquality and its A. I is Okay. Plus you get lots 
 of side missions apart from main missions to complete. The new places unlocked in the game looks 
 really beautiful. But the main attraction of Just Cause is its graphics and visuals quality. The 
 graphics in the game trully rocks. The tropical paradise is well described in visuals. Its a must 
 play third person shooter game. Overall its highly enjoyable and satisfying action game. Great Work 
 Edios. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 14, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  I think the game obviously is a split image of GTA, but with a different plot. There is some mechanics 
 that are new. The free fall, parachute etc. to name a few. It has the same excitement as GTA. Cop 
 chases, and gang wars. The missions are basic (so far) . Assassinate, drop offs, retrieving drugs, 
 and vehicles. The map is huge with a lot of freedom. The driving (handling) is tricky at first, 
 but now I'm a pro at getting away. Seems there could be even more content with the size of this 
 game. I'm not very far, but from what I've observed I have no complaints. There was one flaw that 
 I can think of right now off the top of my head though.... there would be voice overs when no one 
 would be around. Throws you off thinking someone is nearby, and yet you're alone. Music is wonderful 
 with great effects. The graphics are descent. As good as GTA. I'll write more as I think of more. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EvilGenius_3
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 27, 2006 10:20 am PT
Review:  Does running around blowing things up, riding helicopters, jumping from car to car and parachuting 
 from jets in a 10000 km squared tropical island sound good to you? Well, then this is the game 
 for you. It does lack a serious, long story and is flawed, but is still fun in many ways. Let me 
 start with the story. The setting is great; a tropical island ruled by a political tyrant. But 
 once you actually get into the story it isn't so fun with a boring script, an unlikable main character 
 and pretty underwhelming cinematics. So the story isn't great and it doesn't really spoil the game, 
 but hopefully if Avalanche decide to make a second game they will improve this small hindrance. 
 So the campaign is satisfactory at best and it quite easy to get through, but instead of getting 
 harder as you get through, it just gets shorter. It also involves a lot of getting from point A 
 to B and then to C and back to A. And also getting from the different missions can take a while, 
 even by plane, but Avalanche have inserted a nice touch where you can either get your agency to 
 drop you a vehicle wherever you are or get them to pick you up and drop you off at one of the numerous 
 bases or campaign mission starting points. The side missions, involving helping the guerrillas 
 and the drug baron, are different. While helping the guerrillas you liberate villages and towns 
 by creating havoc, which is quite fun. But the rest of the normal missions as well as the drug 
 baron ones get boring and unoriginal fast. Though I have been complaining a lot there are some 
 fantastic ideas and other stuff which work really well. Being a one man army is great in some ways, 
 because you can survive barrages of bullets and fall from great heights, you can jump out of a 
 plane and hang on the tail or you can get in a super fast bike go off and cliff and pull out your 
 parachute just before falling off. Being able to always fling yourself into the air makes you a 
 kind of superman. Don't get me started on the engine though. The game looks fantastic especially 
 when the sun rises or sets, and there is only about a 10 second loading screen at the beginning 
 with no stopping for buffering as you fly through the huge island. If anything I would like to 
 see the amazing engine sold to some other publishers. I think Avalance have put a lot of effort 
 into this but they just haven't put it together, this could have been a classic. All they really 
 need is a better mission structure and perhaps a more detailed and smaller island with more going 
 on. Maybe even a better story. Also, the gameplay is okay and not fitted really for keyboard and 
 mouse and so if somebody has an xbox 360 as well as their PC, get the xbox 360 version instead.
 
  
  Another last point I should mention is that I only think you should get this if it is in the bargin 
 bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord-Shock
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 25, 2006 10:58 pm PT
Review:  The game was fun. Just Fun. Nothing especial to mentioning. At least I did enjoy playing it. If 
 they are thinking in a sequel I'll play it for sure. There are some details that I hated. for example. 
 When I was using a plane I heard the cop saying me: STOP THERE IT IS THE COP. Wtf in the clouds? 
 No way. that was a big bug. I like the way how I can play seconds missions, The way how you can 
 use the vehicles, airplanes and more. Personally I recommend it game for players that like to use 
 any vehicles in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IceColdCanadian
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 22, 2006 10:27 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay/Story
  
  When I first read about this game, I figured it would be another rip-off of Grand Theft Auto which 
 essentially perfect the 3rd-person action adventure genre. But then I installed it, and found it 
 to be an action packed game chock full of action, chaos and lots and lots of stunts.
  
  The game centers around the main character Rico Rodriguez who plays a CIA Spook who has been assigned 
 to dispose of, by any means necessary, the President of the small Caribbean Island of San Esporito 
 (Cough San Andreas) . Anyways El Presidente Salvador Mendoza seems to be a heartless bastard hellbent 
 on getting rich and allowing the small island to be corrupted by drug cartels and just generally 
 bad things.
  
  Rico is brought into the story quickly by being thrown out of a Hercules C-130 at 40,000 feet. 
 This introduces the player to the game rather quickly as you must pull the ripcord and direct Rico 
 to the proper dropzone and immediately off about 10 Government Soldiers before they kill your boss. 
 Eventually you are briefed on what is happening on the island are told to break the local guerilla 
 leader out of prison. Your boss has the idea that if you help the guerillas gain control of the 
 island, you'll be able to eliminate El Presidente in a faster manner. That's all I will say about 
 the story as not to ruin it, but I will say that the story is a well thought out plot that is original 
 for a video game.
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics and visuals are stunning in Just Cause. Speed and Blur distortions followed by actual 
 depth perception is entertaining at hell when you jump out of a helicopter at 20,000 feet in the 
 mid-morning sun before you crash into the ocean and actually feel like the water is deep.
  
  The game moves from day to night in orderly fashion with no load times. The foliage and vehicles 
 look incredible.
  
  The only thing that is lacking great texture quality is the AI. They all seem to be clones of one 
 another and they don't look as real as everything around them. You will notice this early on but 
 won't notice it later once you just start shooting everything that moves, because everyone on the 
 island has a damn gun.
  
  Controls
  
  The controls on Just Cause are simple and work good for the keyboard. General movement is done 
 by the WASD keys and the use key is nicely placed on E key. The menus don't support mouse control 
 which may tick off some PC users but controls in-game work fine. Aiming and firing is done with 
 the mouse, with the right mouse button used as the aiming button. Driving and Flying are also used 
 the by the same keys so new users won't have much trouble learning them at all.
  
  Gripes
  
  I only have a few gripes about Just Cause and they are simple ones. The game lacks 
 any realism. Rico can take multiple hits from various falls and weapons and not lose any health. 
 The most entertaining showing off this is when you begin the game at 40,000 feet and decide not 
 to pull the ripcord to see what happens. Rico simply dives into the water and you need to swim 
 to the island, no damage.
  
  The other gripe I have is the miracle parachute that Rico carries around with him everywhere. Everytime 
 you jump from a high enough surface you can pull the ripcord and up you go! No pain from falling, 
 just pull your parachute and you float to the ground.
  
  Now with those gripes in mind, I must say that without realism, you can pull of some pretty sexy 
 stunts in this game. The best of which is when you are being chased by multiple patrol boats and 
 you drives under a bridge, yank your ripcord and fly up to the bridge, land on the roof of a police 
 cruiser and kick out the driver and drive off into the sunset. Various combos of this sort can 
 be pulled off anywhere in the game and they are always fun.
  
  If you enjoyed Grand Theft Auto then pick this game up. It feels just like it and almost improves 
 on it in some instances. There is an enormous amount of action and the graphics are so fantastic 
 you won't want to stop playing. There is a lot of stuff to do but once you finish the Single Player 
 campaign you will probably uninstall this one, there simply aren't enough side missions (19) to 
 keep you busy, and since they don't really affect the outcome of the game, only hardcore gamers 
 (like myself) will actually do them.
  
  Ups: Great graphics, lots of action, Generally fun, Great storyline, Original
  
  Downs: Short, 
 No Realism, Somewhat repetitive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: games4breakfast
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 22, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  The first thing you notice about Just Cause is how beautiful the expansive world is, but then you 
 start playing. The largest sandbox game to date, in terms of sheer area, it seems that more effort 
 was put into the environment than your ability to navigate it. Developed by Avalanche, a new development 
 house with an experienced team, the game suffers many problems.
  
  Firstly, the PC version is a port of the XBox 360 version of the game, and a slapdash one at that. 
 Plagued with poor control and a lack of options, the games many technical and graphical glitches 
 are all the more obvious. The ridiculous action movie style fun of leaping off cliffs, deploying 
 your parachute, landing on cars, grappling helicopters and liberating villages cant stand up to 
 the frustration of repetitive missions and moronic AI.
  
  Its a game that tries very hard to be deep in gameplay and broad in scope, and the end result 
 is neither. While stupidly fun to play, and incredibly inventive in its problem solving and concept, 
 the game falls short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 21, 2006 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Coming out on September 27th of 2006, Just Cause came out of nowhere to give players the freedom 
 to wreck havoc on the largest game world for a single player to date. Following along the same 
 rules of the Grand Theft Auto series, youll play through mass amounts of missions and explore 
 miles upon miles of jungle terrain in this tropical paradise. The question is; will it stack up 
 against other games in the same genre to be appealing enough to newcomers? Read on to find the 
 answer.
  
  You play as Rico Rodriguez, a member of an Elite Pursuit Force, who must travel to San Esperito 
 to help overthrow Salvador Mendoza, the dictator/president who is constantly corrupting everything 
 from the local militia to the drug trafficking around the huge fictional mass of islands. As you 
 progress through the story, you must free the people of San Esperito from their controlled dictatorship 
 and liberate different villages along the way. Rico is one of those suave men who could have stepped 
 right out of the movie Desperados with his actions and dialogue throughout the game. Youll take 
 and get your mission briefings from two people consisting of a man who constantly wearing a Hawaiian 
 shirt and tanning himself along the beaches of San Esperito, and also a blonde woman who looks 
 and acts like a man, who pretty much sun bathes alongside her partner. Not the best informants 
 and they keep most of the information to themselves, but what can you do right? The mission objectives, 
 although mostly extreme, come off a little lackluster because of how your associates appoint them 
 to you making you feel like, Hey, youre Rico, you can do anything. That may seem a little harsh, 
 but you never really get the sense as if these missions or objectives are do or die and this takes 
 away from the importance of the action. Theres really around only twenty of the story missions 
 that you do before youre done with the actual story part of the game, but there are hundreds and 
 when I say hundreds, I mean over three hundred other quests to do throughout the miles of expansive 
 tropical islands. This may seem like an extreme amount of quests to do in one game, but many, and 
 when I say many, most of the quests are repetitive of each other. Youll find yourself repeating 
 the same quests to help each village you come across. There are a few different organizations that 
 youll be introduced to throughout the games different missions, basically consisting of people 
 in different colored shirts such as green, yellow, and purple. Although they have different names, 
 you probably wont remember them and will rely on the different colors to operate through the different 
 objectives. Youll be completing different missions for the different colors to receive their trust 
 and when you do complete these objectives, you gain new things such as weapons and vehicles which 
 can be quite helpful throughout the games main storyline. Although many of the different missions 
 within the game are the same, there are different ways to complete the objectives because of being 
 able to use different vehicles and weapons to aide you. Why track down a drug lord in your government 
 issued hummer/truck, when you can chase him down with your helicopter? Dont feel like taking the 
 helicopter out for a ride, well, why not hitch onto his truck with your grappling gun and para-sail 
 behind him shooting out his tires until he has to pull over and continue on foot? There are just 
 so many different ways to complete these goals and the more you think about it, the more fun you 
 can have. One thing that separates this game from any other is the use of the stunts that youll 
 be able to perform while traveling across the islands. Rico Rodriguez must have grown up in a circus, 
 because this guy can fly. Wanna see how? Steal a helicopter and fly it straight up into the air. 
 How high you ask? Well, as high as you want, higher than the clouds, higher than any peak of any 
 mountain across San Esperito; as high as you want to. When you finally feel like youve gotten 
 high enough, jump out of your ride and fly or glide would be a better word, back down to Earth. 
 Feel like youre traveling too fast, bust out your parachute and take your time till you hit bottom, 
 but thatll definitely take awhile, so start gliding some more and finally before you hit the ground, 
 take out another parachute and land safely on the ground. Sound fun? Well, it is mostly because 
 of the unlimited amount of parachutes in your backpack. Avalanche Studios wanted to create a fun 
 game for the player, and they did this by taking away some of the realism that usually graces most 
 games nowadays by giving the player the opportunity the chance to perform a lot of these different 
 stunts and jumping of helicopters isnt the only fun thing you can do. Most vehicles you drive 
 have what is known as a stunt position which is as easy as just pushing a button and Rico will 
 then make his way to the top of his vehicle in one swift motion to perform another stunt. From 
 there, you can either jump to another vehicle, or even jump and release your parachute to get whipped 
 back a few hundred feet in the air to glide safely down in your parachute until you hit the ground 
 rolling. Even helicopters and planes that youre able to fly have stunt positions whether youre 
 hanging on the tail of the helicopter or wing of the plane, but youre always able to jump back 
 into the vehicle if you choose by pushing the same button; quite convenient you might say. One 
 great trick is the ability when youre floating down on your parachute, or gliding down without 
 one, press a button and from there, Rico will do a flip and land safely onto a moving car where 
 youre then able to jump inside to take control of it and use it as your own. Youre also able 
 to do this with helicopters and planes if the chance arises. There are just so many stunts that 
 youre able to perform.
  
  Graphics within the game are pretty decent in the sense that the atmosphere of San Esperito really 
 comes alive with all of the life around you. There are hundreds upon hundreds of other people going 
 about their business as you complete your missions and this brings a lot to the islands of San 
 Esperito. The islands are flush and full of jungle with multiple establishments and villages throughout 
 and even a few major metropolis to navigate through, whether its with your car or helicopter. 
 Many have complained that although the game world is huge, theres really only a sparse number 
 of places to visit throughout San Esperito, but in my opinion, there are more than enough. Theres 
 no need to fill these islands up with useless places that take away from the jungles of this fictional 
 Caribbean-like place. Although the characters may not have the most textures, you have to understand 
 that there are hundreds of these people throughout the islands. The lighting in Just Cause was 
 done perfectly and the day and night cycle that youll experience as you do the different missions 
 feels right in the sense that they take up the appropriate amount of time and dont feel too long. 
 The game also has a motion blur graphical setting thatll make your surroundings slightly blur 
 as youre traveling fast around the islands. This can add a lot to the feeling in the game when 
 traveling at high speeds. Although the graphics may seem a little dated compared to the recent 
 releases this year such as Oblivion, Just Cause delivers enough in the graphics department to establish 
 itself. With the use of the stunts youre able to perform, the developers kind of left out a realistic 
 physics engine, so when you crash your vehicle into a building or tree, you kind of just stop. 
 Sure, you can role your car and if you do enough damage to it, it will explode after a while, but 
 theres really not an extensive physics in the game and this allows for the great stunts that youre 
 able to do.
  
  The music in the game moves you along its multiple missions with a blend of Spanish style music 
 filled with both guitars and trumpets, mixed with some electronic beats to keep the flow of the 
 game moving at full speed through your many hours of play. The voiced dialogue within the game 
 is decent enough to keep you hooked during the storyline between missions and as you receive objectives 
 from your two informants. The sound effects are good enough and believable to not take away from 
 the experience of the action, but nothing stellar. The overall music in the background is what 
 keeps the flow of the game going and it easily does its job as youre jumping out of your helicopter 
 and grappling behind different vehicles.
  
  There isnt a multiplayer component for the game, but one could only imagine the fun that could 
 be had if you could travel throughout San Esperito with a partner or group wrecking havoc upon 
 the tropical land. Being released for not only the computer, but the Xbox 360, PS2, and the regular 
 Xbox, Just Cause went through some intense playtesting and is pretty stable out of the box to the 
 point where there hasnt been any patches released for it to date. Ive never run into any game 
 stopping bugs, nor have I had any crashes to desktop with this overall fun game.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 8
  Story/Plot: 7
  Replay Value: 8
  Stability: 9
  
 
  Overall: 8.27 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a_samar2
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 13, 2006 10:39 pm PT
Review:  very nice game &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; enjoy by nice mucie &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; great mishins  
 and dinamice time  every 
 one find som thing new in this game  When writing your 
 review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you 
 to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing 
 so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage you to write your 
 review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into 
 the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Djredman123
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 2, 2006 10:31 pm PT
Review:  this games a 3rd person like Gta and in mo it's alot bettter
  Gtaphics: this is one big A** game flying across the whole map can take u 20 minutes just imagine 
 wal'kin.. this is the biggest amt of land ever in a video game and it's all perfect FPS and no 
 loading times, this is the way graphix are MEANT TO BE. in this has to be 20 times bigger than 
 san andreas and ther are cities and jungles, the biggest city is the size of las venturas in SA. 
 the water is the best i've ever seen
  10/10
  
  Gameplay: yea now this is the best part of this game and what's most important,, u can hang on to 
 the edge of planes and jump back in u can use this hook to connect to helicopters and throw sumone 
 out in midair, u can parasail, dive, a bunch of other s*** this game has everything. except the 
 storys not all that good takin over a bunch of drug cartels and the storys 2 short but that really 
 doesn; t matter bc theres plenty of entertainment in this game / my fav thing in this game is flying 
 and lets say u jump out and the plane falls down faster than u, u can skydive fast and actually 
 get back in the plane, that's sumthin gta doesn; t have.
  8/10
  
  sound crisp and 'clean
  
  cop this ga, e if u lyk gta. this is a must have 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abhichoke
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 27, 2006 6:31 am PT
Review:  Well, for starts, this gmae is just plainly awesome! For months I've heard about this game, I wished 
 i could get my hands on it then. Now I experienced it thru and thru to the end. It's a very spiritual 
 journey through this game
  
  You play as Rico Rodriguez, a CIA agent who's on a mission to thwart a plan of the 'El Presidente' 
 of San Esperito, an island with stunnig looks ran from my machine (Pentium 4 3.2 Ghz NVIDIA Geforce 
 7900 GTX) . Rico has a lot of abilities from parachuting to driving. As you progressed in the game, 
 the more gadgets you will get, include the magnificent 'grappling hook' that grabs on vehicles 
 and can kill people if you shoot at them a few times! This is the main star of the game as the 
 hook allows you to grab enemies' helicopters, cars, boats, or even a jet airliner!
  
  But the best has its flaws, well this game has several issues such as physics engine, this means 
 that you can swipe a truck on to its roof with a sedan! Other matters are 'How can you jump through 
 a spinning rotor and into the helicopter cockpit without opening it? OMG!' and some technical issues 
 are present, such as some stuttering and crashing back to desktop.
  
  So that's it then, I hope you enjoy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calist0
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2006 3:39 am PT
Review:  Well this is an example of how the games should look today. The colors, the environment ... the 
 graphics. This is the kind of game you'll never get tired to explore and enjoy the beautiful views, 
 hop on an airplane and fly through the clouds then jump off the airplane into the sea, watch the 
 sunrises and the sunsets, take a walk with parachute holding on to a car, explore the depths of 
 the Ocean ... etc.
  
  The point is that you can never get bored with this game. Too bad the missions you are supposed 
 to do - are disappointing, there are to easy to beat up, and too dull. And the pedestrians are 
 crazy, to much chaos in this game can be frustrating. You can not walk and enjoy the view without 
 being attacked by someone. Everybody is armed and dangerous. But you can easily get rid of them. 
 This is a great game, it's the first one that it doesn't interests me the story, just the graphics 
 not that the story is very interesting ... political... not the best idea for a game.
  
  So if you are looking for a light game, a relaxing one, a game that doesn't requires much abilities 
 but graphics that inspire, then look no further ,this is the one.
  
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G-Master111
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 25, 2006 1:32 am PT
Review:  This game is great. The characters throughout the missions are pretty well defined and at one point 
 I even felt sorry for the evil el presidente . The main missions are AMAZING there is a huge variety 
 from racing out of a jet to try and plant a bomb on someone's back in midair, to destroying the 
 drug crops in an illegal drug cartel.
  
  The side missions are pretty good. Everyone keeps saying they are repetative and they are after 
 a while, but the routes, method and overall journey to your objectives differs in each mission 
 giving guerilla.
  
  Im slightly annoyed that the develepors didn't include the xbox360 content such as HDR and Improved 
 wildlife. Suffice to say, the graphics are still superb, but they are a little demanding for my 
 little nvidia 6800 and 1gb of ram.
  
  The sound does the job. The explosions are realistic and when you hear a helicopter and a shout 
 of STOP! THIS IS THE POLICIA! in a latino accent you know it's gonna be fun.
  
  Just cause is Just a superb game but it's more for free roamers. People who enjoy linear mission 
 might be a bit dissapointed but those who make there own fun will have HOURS of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p99007
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  When this game first came out, I was expecting a massive world filled with vehicles and cities. 
 What I got instead was a jungle full of rebels and a handful of vehicles. Though initially disappointing, 
 it satisfies if you are able to develop a taste for a game like this.
  
  I was initially disappointed by the lack of vehicles in this game initially, but you begin to accept 
 the fact that 89 vehicles is an acceptable amount to play with. In addition, many of these vehicles 
 are thoroughly entertaining and they can keep you occupied for some time. However, the downside 
 lies in the fact that some of the cooler vehicles either don't exist or are really difficult to 
 find. Nontheless, the vehicles provided are good enough to satisfy the tastes of a vehicle fanatic.
 
  
  The Missions are one of the strong points of this game. They are all creative and alot of fun. 
 Whether it is escorting an ally to an arms deal, or blowing up a Nuclear powerplant, the missions 
 can satisfy everyone. My particular favorite was infiltrating a mountain base where El Presidente 
 is building his missiles and having to blow them up. Tricky, but fun. The side missions can get 
 repetitive from time to time, but initially, they can provide some interesting gameplay and be 
 alot of fun.
  
  Gameplay is key as well. Rico Rodriguez, the hero, comes equipped with a parachute, and eventually, 
 a rappel gun. this gun allows you to latch on to vehicles, and then parasail behind them. In addition, 
 all vehicles have a stunt position where you can pull you parachute a fly high. Overall, this is 
 one of the strongest portions of this game.
  
  Another fantastic part of this game are the character models and voicing. The models are crisp, 
 clean, and very nice. But the voice acting steals the show. Sheldon, your main ally is fantastic. 
 He's a nice southern fellow who has some rather amusing lines throughout the game which keeps the 
 game from getting to intense or boring.
  
  The most talked about part of this game has to be the size of this map. and everything you have 
 heard is spot on... this game is HUGE. It takes 10 minutes to get from one side of the map to the 
 other in the fastest of vehicles, nd even then you are racing the clock. However, this map is spectactular 
 with valley's and gorges and has numerous spots with sweeping vistas. Its perfect.
  
  The Graphics on the PC lack a bit unless you are running the game on high specs. In addiditon, 
 I've had numerous pauses of the game though I am running the game with reccomended specs. however, 
 these are fairly minor problem considering the size of the game.
  
  Overall, if you like great gameplay, huge worlds, fun missions and don't mind a small hit in vehicles 
 and performance, this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xeroman9999
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 18, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  this game is good because of very good graphic, many stuff to do many cars and motorbikes i specialy 
 like jumping from planes and that acrobatic stuff i can say this game is worth playing for all 
 who love gta. Well story is little short but it have many side missions to complete. Game have many 
 weapons and well designed map. I dont love that is it easy game and little unreal when i drive car. 
 i like to spend time exploring the game's world of 1,225 square miles of mountains, jungles, beaches, 
 cities and villages with a variety of air, land and sea craft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoP999606
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 19, 2006 2:34 am PT
Review:  We all know the market is fluded with all kinds of GTA clones bit none have surpased the original 
 in any way. All have something in comon they're crime based. In all you play the roll of a criminal 
 or a cop. I palyed quite some of these games and personaly I need a break. Well Just Cause gave 
 me just that.
  In Just Cause you paly the roll of Rico Rodriguez who's a kind of a super-spy that basycly brings 
 down bad regimes for a living. But how he does it is what makes him special. All in all Rico is 
 likeble character he's no James Bond but he's ok.
  As I said before this is GTA tipe game in wich you can do tipical things for a game in this category 
 like stell any vechicle you see, and Just Cause had a lot of em' to begin with. And unlike other 
 GTA games in this one you're not set loose in a giant metropolis, oh no even better a WHOLE COUNTRY, 
 but don't get too excited becuse this country is a little island actually bt bigger than SA and 
 a lot of land scapes variyng from citiyes, wich are quite small and a little to simple and all 
 in all square. But not the cytiesare are the big part of the game but the rest, the ountry is called 
 by the way San Esperito and it's huge carabien forests look great especiatly from up in the air.
 
  But the way the game is diferent ( in a good or bad way) is it's competly unrealistic gameplay.
 
  We all know that in agmes there are things we are used to and basycly games could not be without. 
 Like when you health simply goes straight to full when you passe a med-kit or you can carry an 
 unlimited number of guns and they seem not to ocupy any space on your person at all. But Just Cause 
 takes that concept to a whole new level with it's never -ending, impossible-to-finish-without and 
 fun parachute and un -realistic stunts.
  First the parachute covers no space on Rico's body, when deployed it doesn't get held up in trees 
 or posts. The parchute and stunts can be used in a number of ocasions, like : when you jump of a 
 high place and don't want to brake your neck, oh and by the way in Just Cause you can fall from 
 any distance in water, you won't get hurt. You can use your parachute while your in stunt position. 
 You activate stunt position when your in a moving vehicle and want to escape a tight spot or want 
 to get high up; or simply press a buton while your moving in a vehicle and Rico will simply get 
 on the hood of a car or on the wing or tail of an aircraft. In this position you can't control 
 the vehicle but you can press a nother button and the parachute is opened throwing Rico up in the 
 air. A nother cool gadget wich you get later on in the game is the grapling hook wich you use to 
 hook up on a vehicle and the parchute sudenly opens and from there you can jump on a vehicle or 
 do other things. In brief ther are a lot of stunts but it depends on the palyer to like it or not. 
 I know I did but brsides the parachute, stunts and sence of power the shooting and driving that 
 esencely are bigger parts of the game aren't done so well, nd that's realy bad. The shooting feels 
 like it's done with auto aim in mind wich on the pc version desn't exist if your not in the air 
 or in a shiootin vehicle, so it acn feel abit overwellming and signiture to this game unrealistc. 
 But the part that buggd me about this game besides the many bugs that are realy annoyng by the 
 way is the driving. In the air the flight is smooth and easy to control while on land the driving 
 is klunky loose and for a geme that has a lt of dryving in it it takes a huge blow.
  From a graphical stand point the game looks very bright and frendly, the land scape looks great 
 from up in the air bu yhe character design is kinda' of and when you get realy close to a bad textured 
 loction up close you'll wish you'd stayed up in the air. The sound is also good but alittle repetitive 
 but well metained by a solid voice-acting.
  In short Just Cause is strange but fun game becuse of it's unrealisme despite a lot of bugs control 
 problems and shoortness. If you like GTA type games and are looking for something unrealistik that 
 you haven't seen yet look no futher than Just Cause. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheLithium
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 17, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  I really liked this game til I finished it. Then I realized how extremely short it was and therefore 
 you could spend your money on something better. Yet it was pretty fun, but totally unrealistic.
 
  
  There is some cool moments when you steal a car and jumps to the cars roof to preform some great 
 stunts. But even that is very unrealistic.
  
  It's cool to put the game on an island like this, and the graphic is real nice but the story is 
 absolutely horrible!
  
  It's worth borrowing from a friend, (it shouldn't take to long before he/she kan have it back) , 
 or buying at a big sale. Don't pay full price for this game - it's not that good! But it really 
 has its moments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gemer319
Rating: 3.8
Date: Nov 17, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  So i tried the demo, it seemed like a nice game. But it wasn't...
  I mean the graphics are ok but the controls are bad ,to slow .Like when u trying to aim with the 
 right mouse button ,it takes ages to set it on ur target and by the time u have, the target jumps 
 out of sight and runs some where else.
  And im used to fast shooting, cause i play a lot of fps. But the controls here a just horrible.
 
  Its also possible to control vehicles ala gta, in gta this worked nicely .. but not here.
  As soon as u pick up speed ,the view gets kinda blurry letting u believe u drive fast, but if u 
 try to steer left or right u loose control and crash in a tree or something else that stand in 
 the way.
  
  Trust me .better stick with gta series cause this game is hopeles 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sime47
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 15, 2006 4:56 am PT
Review:  GRAPHICS (8/10) : On first look unbelievable good. Island, air, water... whole enviorment is very 
 very beautiful but bad sides of graphics you can see when you look little closer. Characters animations 
 are poor, they are not even moving their lips while talking as it is game from PS1, destroyed cars, 
 dead bodies are dissapearing in front of your eyes... All in all, nice graphic.
  SOUND (7/10) : Nothing special. Voice acting is alright just like sounds in enviorment. But still 
 it is not enough.
  GAMEPLAY (6/10) : No, game is not fun. Missions are boring and very repetetive. Aiming is stupid, 
 you must put a lot of bullets on enemy to kill him even if you shot him in head. Story is stupid, 
 I mean there is no story. Those things are hard but game is very easy beacuse enemies are stupid 
 and they need to put hundreds of bullets in you to kill you. Very weak gameplay.
  VALUE (8/10) : If you are patient it will take you a lot of time to rule whole island. Main story 
 is not long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loading123
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 10, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  You will be playing this game in a map full of island and those island are about 90% covered with 
 trees. The most fun thing in this game are the stunts that u perform, u think u are a cuban james 
 bond. The view of islands from the sky are breathtaking and u wull feel that the clouds and water 
 are for real. Just cause tries to keep away as much as it can from GTA with good weapons, vehicle 
 drop off and extraction menus, solid stunts and realistic environment touch. u will aslo get boats 
 and cars that shoot bullets and missiles.
  
  The bad abt this game would be the technical glitches that u may often get. The vechiles in this 
 game are bad and really need some designing to do... in other words they should pimp their cars. 
 The gaame tutorial is also not so user frinedly and u will have to figure out so many stuffs by 
 ur own. There are poor missions management and this game has to really develpop in it; s starting 
 and ending od missions. Anyways it's a nice game and i recommend u to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mafioso_Caz
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2006 6:48 am PT
Review:  You'd either love it or hate it, and i'd have to specifically rule myself towards liking Just Cause.
 
  
  Let the tropical scenery and unnatural events pull together as generally remarkable satisfaction. 
 Combining both these with fantastic graphics, applaud-able gameplay and desirable imagery- Give 
 Just Cause a moment of your gaming career and view it's positive points correctly. Face it, we've 
 all had these gaming situations before. From Grand Theft Auto to Doom, you get what your given. 
 Just Cause presents its story amongst acres of tropical land, creative action, high-time thoughts. 
 It simply provides us with the 'ahh' factor that gets us going. What more to say? If your a fan 
 of effective, stunning scenery and tormenting gameplay- It's an immediate purchase which brings 
 new terms to the word 'Glorious'.
  
  -Calum
  (The Game Rate is based on a Powerful Personal Computer, and yes, the Graphics are sensational) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H8X
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 26, 2006 2:20 pm PT
Review:  The game is actuall pretty good. It has good gameplay, a good story, and a good environment. It 
 does not match up to the GTA series, but then again, it is its own game so it shouldnt be compared 
 to it. You play a character brought in to overthrow the goverment on this island. The weapons are 
 cool, the controls are good, and the gameplay is great. The game offers features the GTA series 
 didnt which is a plus. You can jump out of your car and on top and shoot people from it, or even 
 take off from a parasail and hang glide to your (or another persons) car. So in that sense its 
 awesome. Definately worth going out to get, but if your going to go in with expectations of San 
 Andreas, you might want to wait till the price drops so at least you get a good deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: henry_92
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 23, 2006 4:33 am PT
Review:  Good game
  the control on the car is a little bit hard in the beginning
  the graphic is very good
  the sound is nice
  
  you need a good computer to run it good
 
  
  (and because i need to write more than 100 words) .......
  
  the control on the car is a little bit hard in the beginning
  the graphic is very good
  the 
 sound is nice
  
  you need a good computer to run it good
  
  the control on the car is a little bit hard in the beginning
  the graphic is very good
  the 
 sound is nice
  
  you need a good computer to run it good
  
  the control on the car is a little bit hard in the beginning
  the graphic is very good
  the 
 sound is nice
  
  you need a good computer to run it good
  
  there you go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrmilos
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 21, 2006 7:48 am PT
Review:  This game is a very good id&eacute; because there is so much freedom involved. You can do litterly 
 anything and that is what makes it so fun. The bad thing is the gamestory and missions. It feels 
 so repeatedly the whole gameplay that it went on my shelves. I would love it if this game would 
 be improved and evolved with much more differents things to do. More like GTA with a bigger city 
 and places to visite. In Just Cause every city and place feels almost the same. To bad.. This game 
 is a very good id&eacute; and something i've been waiting for a very long time. Littelery To do 
 anything at anytime. There should be a wider community for this game and more people should try 
 it out to give their oppinion because if this game was bigger with more story I think that many 
 people would like this game.
  
  It's a shame if this dream would die out.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trasher84
Rating: 4.3
Date: Oct 18, 2006 2:32 am PT
Review:  Too many bugs for a release. Graphics more or less on the same level as the last PC GTA - so quite 
 poor considering when it was released. Sounds are a complete disappointment (what the hell are 
 those vehicle sounds???) .
  Storyline too short, rest of the game is about doing all the same things (overtaking villas and 
 villages) again and again. So generally not much to do in the game. Still it keeps you in front 
 of the monitor for some time after you sit down to play it (if you have too much of it) , probably 
 because lack of new interesting titles at the moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyuaNesha
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 16, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  The game is great, i didnt say amazing, its great.
  
  The Good:
  _________________________
  Grappeling hook: the grappeling hook is amazing to the point where 
 you dont need to steal cars. you can use your grappeling hook and use your parachute at the same 
 time to hook on to and vehicle, boat motorcycle plain helicopter car ect. you have your hook attached 
 to a gun so lets say you attach it to a car and deploy your parachute, lets say you are on a mission 
 to kill someone inside that car... why not reel yourself in and then close enough so you can jump 
 to the roof of the car then hop into the driver seat, then do the classic drive the car to a beach 
 and hop on top of the car then deploy your parachute? You can steal helicopters by getting attatched 
 to a helicopter and then reeling yourself in.
  
  Stunts: The stunts are amazing and at times unreal, ive when escaping after killingh two targets, 
 got in a helicopter and when it was about to explode i hopped back and grabbed the tail then i 
 jumped from the tail onto a jet and stole it. you can be on a motorcycle and deploy your parachut 
 to make you fly upwards and land on a car, the person panics and startes speed ing and when its 
 about to crash jump from that car to another crash, ive jumped from the roof of a car to a helicopter.
 
  
  Enviroment: the enviroment is amazing, the graphics arnt amazing though, then why did i give it 
 a 10? It is because you can see the world unchanged from hundreds of feet in the sky, other games 
 take a shsortcut and make the enviroment blur to show distance, not this game everything looks 
 amazing from high up, the world is huge and takes forever even to fly from one end to the next, 
 imagine walking.
  ___________________________
  
  The bad:
  
  There are verry few bad things about this but.
  
  Story: Gets alittle repetitive
  
  Grappeling 
 hook gun: only attactches to vehicles like most games that have a grappeling hook, in a stealth 
 game that would be awsome to have it.
  
  Gunplay: would have given gameplay a 9 if only the gunplay was like vomit in a box, the crosshair 
 is way too unacurate and lets say you obtained a sniper rife, hedshots are the same as torso shots, 
 no instant kill and no lockon to help how unacurate the crosshair is.
  __________________________
  
  Summary: it rarely glitches a well put together, the gunplay 
 needs improvement. great variaty of weapons and tools, not bad an 8.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tommorgan88
Rating: 4.9
Date: Oct 16, 2006 7:39 am PT
Review:  All modern games with vehicles that can be stolen, pedestrians that can be run over and maps bigger 
 than an English county all owe a debt to the Grand Theft Auto series, and most fail to deliver 
 the goods in a way Rockstar has achieved. Just Cause adds a new spin to the typical values used 
 in every other free roaming realistic crime-sim, combining the idyllic tropical locations of 
 Far Cry with the cartoon violence of GTA, and adding a large scoop of over the top Mexican stereotypes 
 usually seen in Robert Rodriguez movies, creating a hectic mix of genres that adds up to an exhilarating 
 rollercoaster ride through San Esperito, a war-torn Mexican republic that the CIA has deemed in 
 desperate need of liberating.
  Despite being a non-linear game of sorts, allowing you access to the entire game world at the start 
 of the game, gameplay consists of main missions that advance the storyline, and side missions that 
 increase your ranking within the Guerrilla forces. While many of the side missions are rarely more 
 advanced than go to point A, collect item X and take it to point B, the liberation missions are 
 the main attraction of the main game  seeing you join forces with guerrilla soldiers and taking 
 back the country, one town at a time. While the challenge may gradually increase, doing the same 
 levels in only marginally different settings (after all, how different can each village be?) certainly 
 detracts from the otherwise enjoyable experience.
  The game looks good on most hardware, with system requirements not being too extreme for a modern 
 game. While not exactly being truly next-gen, using bloom lighting rather than full HDR and skimping 
 on several other effects (which I will explain later) , Just Cause has a unique appearance that 
 sets it apart from GTA, of which the comparisons are obvious. I did notice that nVidias The Way 
 Its Meant To Be Played development assistance seems to have resulted in character and vehicle 
 shadows only rendering on nVidia hardware, but I was prepared to overlook this as I hadnt updated 
 my graphics drivers in some time, and there was the possibility that such issues would be resolved.
 
  Sound is average, with no GTA style radio stations for the numerous vehicles, and much of the 
 musical score only kicking in when you are in combat or in a mission. NPCs all have voices, but 
 after the first hour you will probably have heard them all. In particular the Policia constantly 
 shouting Stop right there, Citizen at you, despite not having a crime rating, can be very irritating. 
 This certainly isnt a game your shiny new X-FI card is going to make the most of.
  I was happy to like Just Cause, despite its shortcomings, as it is a simple, pretty and most importantly, 
 fun game that doesnt take itself too seriously. However, I was shocked at the difference in quality 
 between the PC and Xbox 360 versions of the game. A side by side video comparison can be found 
 on YouTube  showing true HDR, per pixel shadowing, 
 full screen motion blur, and HD resolutions among other features that are lacking from the PC version. 
 I think widescreen resolutions are increasingly important to new PC games, as increasing amounts 
 of gamers are converting to widescreen monitors. Being forced to play in 1024x768 when your monitor 
 is capable of much larger widescreen resolutions is very irritating, especially when downscaling 
 on TFT monitors results in increased jaggies. This changes the game from a mediocre multiformat 
 release to a poor console conversion, which is pretty unforgivable considering the games opening 
 week popularity. To make matters worse, PC gamers often cant return games, because of the ease 
 of which games can be copied or patched to play without a CD or DVD, leaving them stuck with an 
 inferior version of a product. Just Cause may give you some cheap thrills, but ultimately it leaves 
 a bitter taste in your mouth, and a dent in your wallet you will begrudge later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mv2kennys
Rating: 2.4
Date: Oct 15, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the worst games to come out lately, unfortunately there haven't been many good FPS 
 games in a long time, so if you want to play ur stuck with this kind of euro thrash. No real game 
 play at all here. No stealth ability needed, they must smell you coming (just like the game stinks!) . 
 The choppers are another joke, u can shoot down 10 of the them and new ones keep appearing. Same 
 for the so called AI, just an endless stream of mutants that run right to u even though ur blassing 
 awya with ur machine gun, just an freaking joke! The new stuff is just a bunch of crap, scifi shet, 
 no Max Payne, Hitman, GTA , or FarCry t ype of quality seen for far too long. Why? These are always 
 the best sellers, why aren't there more new releases of this quality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_mighty_boos
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 4, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  thats pretty much what this game is. It may lack the spark of genius of the GTA series, but this 
 is still a solid non-linear blast em up. The first striking thing about Just Cause is its beauty. 
 This game has some truely beautiful surroundings, the sky and water being main highlights. The 
 first thing to happen to you in this game is to be thrust out of a plane with a parachute, so the 
 beginning moments do a good job of showing the graphics off. Speaking of parachutes, there are 
 a lot of extreme and downright crazy things to do in this game. One of which incudes getting into 
 a helicopter, flying up to another chopper, getting out onto the outside of urs, then jumping in 
 mid-air to the other, eventually gaining urself a new ride. That last part sums up Just Cause quite 
 well. Its all about over the top, Bond-esque action sequences, complete with huge explosions and 
 exciting getaways. There are a few bugs in the game, and the AI on NPC's could really do with some 
 expanding, but none of the games flaws distract from the fun of the game, which is what matters 
 most.
  
  The Good - Really impressive graphics - Stunts are fun - Huge map to explore - Lots to do
  
 
  The Bad - AI is worse than a lobotomised ape - Main character is a bit of a chump - A few bugs 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rickaoKON
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 14, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Just Cause is another free to play and kill game, but it has its moments.
  It has great stunts that the others don&acute; t have , and that&acute; s pretty cool IMO, the graphics 
 are lot better than GTA , the jungle is more detailed, the water effects are great, the camera 
 get a bit confusing when driving but that&acute; s not a problem once you manage to control it, 
 the IA is a bit stupid. One of the things that looked good was the stunts , jumping from car to 
 car, from the helicopter with a parachute and landing on the car is great, although sometimes it 
 don&acute; t look too real, he is a bit slow to move, it looks like he pissed on his pants when 
 he jumped from the chopper .XD
  That&acute; s all, Just Cause is a good game to have to play in your free time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendBear
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 5, 2006 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Overall, Just Cause isn't a bad game at all. Kinder reminds me of a cross between the GTA series 
 and Boiling Point, not a bad combination of games and Eidos have pulled out all the graphical tricks 
 in the book, the graphics are excellent however, expect it to tax your system a great deal because 
 of it.
  
  Action! Once you start a new game, its pretty much action all the way, however some parts are pretty 
 difficult and frustrating especially once you get a level 5 wanted level and you're no where near 
 a safehouse as you'll be constantly under attack from attack choppers, and well, everything Mendoza 
 has usually though, it ends with you getting killed. Sometimes, you can be killed in very crazy 
 and weird ways such as using the grappling gun on a chopper and getting killed by the rotorblades, 
 or by landing the chopper and some crazy fool drives his car into it instantly killing you, hey! 
 Sounds whacked out, but hey, its happened.
  
  Theres a decent array of weapons and vehicles to use, however in my experience the helicopters 
 are the best way of getting around the island chains since its mostly jungle, and for some reasons, 
 the planes arn't that great, and extremely difficult to land since the runways are tiny.
  
  Bugs, yes it does have some minor bugs. But nothing major, I had a couple of crashes and some strange 
 vehicle behavior, especially with the vampire bouncing around for no reason, other than that, it 
 hasn't been too bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordanbijl
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 11, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Its no GTA, as everyone compares it too, It definatly doesn't have the depth that GTA games have, 
 and there is certainly not enough to really keep you occupid with, But I had lots of fun with this 
 game. Its simple and too the point, you shoot here, blow some stuff up there and do some crazy 
 stunts in the process. I didn't really pay attention to the story after the first few missions, 
 because after awhile they all seem to repeatitive, But, There is alot of land to explore in the 
 game once you are done the missions.
  The land is huge! this is where people obviously compare it too GTA, but since its pretty empty 
 and there are no real buildings to explore, nor are there really any mini games, it just doesn't 
 seem like a GTA tpye game, Its more of a sandbox game for those who like to blow stuff up and cause 
 mass distruction.
  The side missions are way too short, and way to repeative, and I enjoyed taking over settlements 
 for a while until it became once again, too repeatitive.
  
  On the other hand, you have a huge string of islands to explore, with many things to see and do... 
 er... not do... There are lots of vehicles for you to control but I found that for the sheer size 
 of the game, there weren't enough different types on the road (most of the good vehicles you have 
 to find.) And while we are on the subject of vehicles, I must say the physics of the vehicles are 
 very... odd, very not well thought out because its difficult to turn and while speeding I find 
 I cannot stay on the road when turning... Besides the odd complaints its still a good game, Im 
 not in a game for graphics, more for gameplay and fun, but this game has some amazing graphics, 
 They arn't the best of the best, but they are nice to look at, The bright sandy beachs look like 
 bright sandy beachs, and the forests are cloaked by shadows, The lighting effects are truely nice 
 (even if it is way to bright) It really looks like paradise.
  In short the game is a decent one at its best, not the greatist game, but if your like me and like 
 blowing stuff up, buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badtz52
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 9, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  the control on the car is a little bit hard in the beginning
  the graphic is very good
  the sound is nice
  
  you need a good computer to run it good
  
  (and because i need to 
 write more than 100 words) .......
  
  the control on the car is a little bit hard in the beginning
  the graphic is very good
  the 
 sound is nice
  
  you need a good computer to run it good
  
  the control on the car is a little bit hard in the beginning
  the graphic is very good
  the 
 sound is nice
  
  you need a good computer to run it good
  
  the control on the car is a little bit hard in the beginning
  the graphic is very good
  the 
 sound is nice
  
  you need a good computer to run it good
  
  there you go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sahoman
Rating: 4.2
Date: Oct 9, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  Really bad graphs., this stupid shining sun effect is not enough for giving this game a 7. Very 
 very boring. &amp;#304; still can't believe how bad is the graphs., especially human modellings. And 
 the sounds of course.. My primary objective on that game was to run a way from helicopters, because 
 of the sound they made hahaha!. They were everywhere like flies.. I can't spend my little time to 
 play this s.. t. Don't buy it. Wait for coming great games, save your money. ( i already sold my 
 copy for its half price and i just played it a few hours before selling. :) ) And my last words 
 is for gamespot.. Please don't make me buy these kind of bad games by giving them scores like that. 
 Please think twice before giving scores. Don't overrate them. With all my anger, be well everybody.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akshayroyden
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 8, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  The game is absolutly awesome with spectacular graphics stunning cut scenes and ya the game pay 
 could have been better. Overall an enjoyable game. The islands look wonderfull with my geforce 
 7900. Love playing this absolutly wondeful game. The game has so many different kinds and variety 
 of missions to choose and play from. My favourite is the mission where you get to liberate the 
 settlements here you get to moster the town officials. An all performance by the developers. But 
 in all all of this the story based missions are very short which could have increased in size rather 
 than having a lot of side missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ranzou
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 15, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  I wish I could say how much I like this game. But the fact I get framerate drops into the single 
 digits on the absolute lowest settings possible make this game unplayable.
  
  While running around if I let go of the controls your character continues to move or diesel on. 
 During some firefights while shooting, it will continue to fire long after you have let go of the 
 mouse button.
  
  I have an Athalon 3200 with a Radeon 9800, not state of the art, but works fine in most other games. 
 So why this one bogs down so much, can't tell you. I can play FEAR, Oblivion, GTA San Andreas with 
 no problems.
  
  If it were'nt for these serious technical difficulties I would actually like this game. I could 
 enjoy the stunts and the willful displacement of reality. 
  
  Best way to describe this is its GTA on Far Cry's islands. Too bad. Could have been great.
  
 
  Update:
  I've built a new system, E6400 w/ 8800 GTS and 2 MB DDR2-800, and now this game runs smooth. Yet 
 dispite framerates around 100 with max settings, I'll still get an occasional hiccup for a second 
 or two.
  
  From a player's fun perspectivethe game is so much better now that it runs the way its supposed 
 to. Too bad Eidos/Avalanche never patched it for regular systems. There's a fun game that is being 
 missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nolan16
Rating: 6.7
Date: Oct 7, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  When I played this game rented it to give it a try its just another game that was made for GTA 
 fans. GTA fans as in the same stuff running around killing who ever you want doing missions completing 
 them. Only thing that is different is a few cool stunts you can do. Like while your driving you 
 can jump on top of your car as your car drifts with no one driving it. And you can inject your 
 self and parachute before you crash while in your car or fall off a high ledge. Its Fun for 3-4 
 days before it gets repetitive I would recommend this to be a rent only. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scatman0
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 7, 2006 7:13 am PT
Review:  Just Cause, it's a incredibly good game but the fault is that it's short, even though their are 
 100's of side missions and many things to keep you occupied.
  
  I played the game for a week nearly completing it, 100%, with ease but i still really enjoyed it. 
 I loved the atmosphere and there was plenty of things to do ; side missions, taking over towns/airports/army 
 bases/city's and more, collector missions etc. But they also were short, you just get the odd one 
 that takes longer then you expect.
  
  The Gameplay was ok; there were many things to but there were little things that were not quite 
 right like the handling on cars and boats, just shocking yet the handling on helicopters and planes 
 is brilliant
  
  The Graphics are pretty good yet they could be better, i see that the xbox 360 graphics for this 
 game are 10x better then the PC version, i ask why ?
  
  The Sounds are ok i like the sound when you are being chased by the cops or the po-lice and well 
 its a good mix of sounds.
  
  The Value, i think this game is good for value because it keeps you stuck to it and playing right 
 to the very end
  
  Well overall i think this game is incredible good so i give it a : 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 5, 2006 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Just Cause on paper is a good concept even though it copies off the freedom of GTA, the environment 
 of Farcry, and the gameplay of Mercinaries. With its lush and fairly pretty graphics the Island 
 looks great and is very large. Speaking of the large island, another perk is there are no loading 
 times while just playing around and not doing missions or side quests. The side quests are very 
 repetitive but can be set aside if you keep failing and want to do another side mission. Driving 
 mechanics aren't too shabby but the view and cinematic feel of it and most of the stunts in the 
 game are cool and makes you feel as if your in a movie at times. While the cinematic driving can 
 be exciting at times it is also boring to have to drive from little province to province with the 
 world being as big as it is. The story of Just Cause is pretty much Mercs with a revolution on 
 a Carribean Island. On the higher settings I frequently crashed but when run on medium all ran 
 smooth even though the AI is brainless and often grenade their own soldiers. If you can overlook 
 the stupid AI and difficult aiming system, Just Cause is a nice looking addition to your collection 
 of PC Games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspking111
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 2, 2006 12:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is very nice in the graphics department. Gameplay is very smooth, and very detailed. Extremly 
 big exploring ground. and it has very nice vehicles, from planes to helicopters its got it all. 
 Guns are outstanding and sound beautiful. There's just one slight downfall... IT IS JUST TO BIG 
 TO HAVE FUN HOURS ON END... i mean you will get very bored withen 2 hours if you dont do missions. This 
 game is so open-ended that you can run around aimlessly for 7 hours and you could not even touch 
 the missions. The police shoot outs are the best i have seen in a TPS. But like i said the only 
 con is it just gets to boring. I recomend this game to people that have a job and dont spend alot 
 of time on games. The game is very easy so no one should have trouble. But just wait for a price 
 drop and you'll be completly happy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reevo3000
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 2, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  After seeing the gameplay videos and the official trailers, I was looking forward to Just Cause 
 as much as I was when FarCry was due to be release, infact, it almost took me back to the feeling 
 I got when Donkey Kong Country received a huge launch world wide back in the mid 90's.
  
  I purchased the game the day it came out and I wish I never had. Starting the game was promising, 
 falling from an aeroplane toward the MASSIVE gameplay area, deploying your parachute just inches 
 from the ground, AWESOME!!!!! Then you land in the middle of an action packed gun battle........ 
 or not. The introductory gun war seems lifeless and when you kill your foe, regardless of where 
 you hit them, they bounce into the air and fall back down, dead, even after your target didn't 
 really seem to be trained on them.
  
  Then there is the driving, ooooooh the driving. How can a modern game not allow for game-pad support? 
 Especially when the game involves driving or some other form of precise action. The car barrels 
 down the road, hopefully not hitting something (but when you do the damage is minimal) and then 
 comes a turn! What do you do? You press left or right of course..... BANG, there goes your car 
 off a cliff or into a forest as you cannot accurately control the car with just single button left 
 and right, you need the light touch of a game-pad or joystick.
  
  The missions are dull, unimaginative and repetative. Once you complete the missions, you expect 
 (mainly from your GTA SA experience) that many side games and fun collection missions or stunt 
 goals will be unlocked....... your wait is in vain, they never come. Thus there is very little 
 to do outside of a mission other than drive around and use your parachute, which also becomes boring 
 after a few tries.
  
  Although the map is HUGE and very good to look at from some of the mountain tops, there just isn't 
 anything there. The buildings cannot be explored like in GTA SA and they are few and far between, 
 and once you have seen a tree, you have seen them all, and my god there are a lot of them.
  
  If you are buying a game of this type for the first time, stick to the GTA series. They are 
 far far far away from the competition and take much less system clout to run than Just Cause. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whoody12
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 2, 2006 6:31 am PT
Review:  Review Rig:
  CPU: X2 AMD 4800+
  GPU: Nvidia 7950GX2
  RAM: 2gig 4700
  OS : Service pack 2
  SC: X-FI extreme music
  
  Ingame settings: All on max , 1440x900
  
 
  Time played: 35 hour, main story completed, side missions all completed
  
  REVIEW:
  
  Graphics:
  the grafics are good, when you drive hard, you see a nice blur effect and the 
 explosions are realistic, but the psychics are good when you shoot at cars etz, but when you shoot 
 at soldiers/cops/civilians are not very realistic, they just fly throw the air, and then fall, 
 nothing special, just good. but dont ask me why , but the grafics arent as good as the Xbox360 
 version, you will NOT get the grafics quality like you see them on justcausegame. com
  
  Gameplay:
  now we get to the strong part of the game, the first 10 minutes of the game , you 
 will be very bored, just becouse you need to get used to the game, but when you get further you 
 will start to like the game with all the new gadets you will get, but after you get every thing, 
 you will get a bit bored, becouse there is not very much to do after you finsiht all mission (what 
 will keep you busy for atleast 20 hours)
  
  Sound:
  also , a GREAT aspect of the game, the soudn when you shoot a rocket with your helicopter is just 
 great, I may have an X-fi then , but I tested it also with an Creative Live 5.1, and still it sounded 
 great. the explosions are also above average, but only the MG doesnt sound that great, and the 
 car sound isnt perfect either, these 2 things keep it from a 10
  
  Wouter Mostard monday 2 october 2006
  Birthday: 27/12/1991
  sex: Male
  Country: Dutch 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bokaj70
Rating: 5.7
Date: Oct 2, 2006 5:09 am PT
Review:  The environments are beautiful but the game suffers from poor animations and bad physics. This 
 goes especially for the driving part but also in situations like running up a steep mountain at 
 exactly the same speed as running down. You can also drive over the edge of a cliff and fall hundreds 
 of meters almost without any damage on the vehicle. In general for driving and running you don't 
 have the feeling of contact with the surface beneath you.
  
  There are fun moments in the game but the mission are in general so uninspired. The side missions 
 are extremely boring with no variation at all.
  
  It feels like a lot of effort have been put into the creation of the Island and everything else 
 is rushed. The story, the missions, the physics etc.. Even if the graphics in GTA are not top notch 
 you really get to understand what a fantastic job Rockstar has done. Just drinving around in GTA 
 is so much more fun than anything Just Cause has to offer and the missions .. well .. you get the 
 point .. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nite1
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 10, 2006 4:21 am PT
Review:  When you first play Just Cause, you would think its a combination of Far Cry and the GTA series 
 games. The graphics are not as good as Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion and Far Cry, but are far more 
 better than the GTA Games. The only thing I would fix in the graphics is post effects as it makes 
 the game look too blurry (I'm not talking about the motion blur either) . The Vehicles handling 
 depends on the vehicle you drive. With some cars it handles fine, but on other cars when you take 
 a sharp turn you instantly spin out to a 180 degree turn, and its even worse with bikes. As far 
 as the aircraft vehicles the choppers handle good. The planes have the ROLL and PITCH controls 
 but are missing the YAW controls which rotates the plane around vertically (This makes it difficult 
 to line up with the runway when landing) . The AI in the game is way too easy for a highly skilled 
 player, half the time they never even hit you when bullets are flying in all directions. The death 
 animations is horrible as the AI just jump back when they get killed. Their is only 21 storyline 
 missions which is way too short for a game map this size. I guess the Settlement Liberation's, 
 Side Missions, Races, and Collect Missions make up for that. The stunts are a lot of fun jumping 
 from vehicle to vehicle as well as sky diving after jumping out of a plane. The game also has its 
 share of glitches which is not a surprise considering the map size. Overall even with these issues, 
 its still a very fun playable game if you like exploring big maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarKirby3333
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Just cause is incredible. You start hurled out of a plane a few hundred meters up. You open your 
 parachute, and land straight in the middle of a gunfight.
  
  Ater you get your bearings, and do a fewpretty decent initial missions, you get the hook gun.
 
  
  It's all uphill from there. You will enjoy hooking cars, and learning the knack of flying with 
 your parachute, But the real standout moment is, after 10 or so unsuccessful tries, you finally 
 manage to skyjack a helicopter.
  
  As soon as I got into a chopper, the first thing I did was go up. Up up and up. you can see the 
 whole island from up there. It is huge, and jawdroppingly beautiful. The most incredible thing 
 about this game, is that you can see the whole island at once, while moving at high speed, there's 
 never a hint of slowdown or lagginess.
  
  As the review deck states, there are a few minor flaws. No gamepad support. Liberal autoaim. A 
 bit too easy,
  
  But those are nothing compared to the sheer brilliance of it all.
  
  WArKirby 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hamodizzo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 30, 2006 5:25 pm PT
Review:  As I watched the visuals on the sneak preview it seem very cool but today's gamer would like some 
 kinda of realism towards the obvious illusion of gaming... It's overall pretty cool when I started 
 playing, I played it just to let some steam off or to take a scenery ride off somewhere rather 
 than the US scenery... The parachute is awesome, that's pretty cool how you can lasso yourself 
 and parasail... cool stuff! Crazy fun though as my brother and I played it just to get each other 
 stoked.... A very intense FREE FOR ALL attack mode, you seem to kill everything before it actually 
 get's to you... I'm still trying to make sense of the choppers, it was pretty easy to control but 
 when it came time to let go it wouldn't... hmmmmm, might be a glitch on my 360... No worries though, 
 I'm right back in there slammin everything and anything in my way! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowofamn1
Rating: 6.2
Date: Sep 29, 2006 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Just Cause trailer caught my eye months ago, it looks decent and have a lot of action but when 
 I play this game today at my friends house on ps2, I felt disappointed.
  
  Graphic: The graphic isnt eye catching on ps2 and it look kinda worse than GTA: SA. I am not trying 
 to compare them but at least try to be on par, as of today's technology the graphic really put 
 a negative affect on it.
  
  Sound: The sound effect is ok in this game and some music really heat up the game at certain point.
 
  
  Gameplay: Very poor physic engine, when I got on the first ride I floor it, shortly after I hit 
 a tree and all it happen was I stopped. The car is barely damage. Steering is pretty crappy, and 
 early in the game there is not much stunt you can pull off. Other than those its a clone of GTA.
 
  
  Rent it first, dont buy it straight off because you will regret this if you have play something 
 like GTA: SA, you will see a differents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nonamemax
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 29, 2006 7:40 pm PT
Review:  When the game starts, you tell yourself, wow, what a wonderful game (well at the outside) . All 
 along the play, I though that that was a console game converted to pc (I played pc version) . The 
 game gives you a quick learning, which is not really useful because playing is quite simple, but 
 at least the gun auto-aim really helped me out. If you BUY it with the thinking that it's a revolution, 
 you wont be happy of the type of the gamplay, but if you're a fan of GTA style or 3 person shooter 
 its a must have because it will surely have a sequal or a remake like every other game who turned 
 out pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nortech
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 29, 2006 7:42 am PT
Review:  Graphic is ok but it isn't playable game I see.
  &amp;#304; t is mixed some GTA and some Mafia of Colombian.
  But it is so far our real world
 
  This isn'y like this.
  
  If Graphical textures are full it seems amazing
  
  Some nice thing inclueded this game
  
  This is; Parachute jumping
  
  Just this:)
  
  
 Game's people so angry and they want to smash you everywhere:)
  
  Sometimes they fired their guns suddenly and dead suddenly
  
  So boring
  
  worst
  
 
  Good idea but not like this.
  
  Maybe it will be good some patches...
  
  Just play GTA sanandreas
  
  or mafia
  
  or TheGodFather...
  
  Play game and Do not 
 forget real world 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sangoanuta
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 15, 2006 8:27 am PT
Review:  This game looks nice, looks great.
  
  It's really fun to play, because in no other game you can hang out of a helicopter, and jump to 
 another one.
  
  The island of San Espirito looks great, all that bloom, and heat haze go really nice with those 
 far-cry-a-like colors.
  
  Nothing to complain about (except the crappy missions) , all i got to say it's that these games 
 should get a lil' bit more of GTA elements.
  
  It's fun to play.
  And if you like to explode, shoot, fly, hang out of vehicles or just screw around a nice city, 
 you should buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xao
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 28, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  I have played loads of free roaming games like mafia, gta and at first its like a new gta.. it 
 looks better, it sounds better.. but as the game progresses, i just felt that it was more. it was 
 crazier, more involving.. it was insane. Reminded me of mafia a lot, and the whole liberating was 
 a lot like the gta gang wars but i think due to the graphics, sound and action and how everything 
 looked it just topped gta: sa and mafia. the style and setting of the game is new and wherever you 
 go, the people the live on the island arnt annoying flat people, they're real. Its definatly worth 
 getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_prince_1981
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 28, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  I knew I was going to love this game since a read a preview in one of my favorite game magazine's. 
 Then after a couple months the demo appeared on xbox live, I played it and found it to be brilliant! 
 So I bought the full game and I loved it even better. I like the speed and action in this game, 
 your able to preform wicked stunts on the ground, in the air and in vehicles which makes the game 
 different from the GTA series. You also have way more space than in the GTA series, although I 
 think the game should've made more use of it, sometimes there is little to do. But You'll be able 
 to stir up a hornet's nest yourself, just kill a few people and drive reckless and you'll heve 
 the cops on your ass in no-time, which is more fun than annoying, unless it happens during a mission, 
 which makes the mission a lot harder. But I find it dissapointing that there are but 21 story missions, 
 which I find a little short, because you can complete missions quite fast in J. C. But overall I 
 love this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pete5506
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 27, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Just Cause...... Ok well 1st getting into the game, it looked like a new gta but with a twist but 
 yes it had that but the story line is not that good and the game play is a little hard with all 
 these things not on the demo. The demo is good right but there was nothing on it copared to the 
 real game so I would just say get a good gta game and not this save this for when your borad or 
 when you see it for 20 bucks. Hey but the sound was perfect in my books and the graphics were dam 
 good. Hey thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teron678
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 27, 2006 9:27 am PT
Review:  First of all this game is just as all the games EDIOS creates they LAG (not in this game so much) . 
 For you to enjoy playing this game i suggest you have a good graphics and sound card + a 1gb ram 
 + about 2.5 ghz processor. it would be ideal. This graphics is okay. This game makes up for what 
 gta doesn't but gta is still better overall. The ups in this game i'll say the skydiving and parachuting 
 and some other features. the downs are the lagging. Playing it the first time it would be kinda 
 boring but it'll get better as u go along. One thing that amazed me is that it's 6gb. and there 
 aren't many objects in the game. to me they wasted about 3gb in this game.
  
  try it. it's hmmmmmmm ok! Could've been better though. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
