-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: KA-52 Team Alligator
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/ka52teamalligator/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  7, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.6
Critic Score: 6.8, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 18 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: GT Interactive
Developer: Simis Ltd.
Genre: Helicopter Sim
Date:     Mar 31, 2000
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Team Alligator's stripped-down flight model is a spectacular failure that taints all other parts 
 of the game. 

 Ka-52 Team Alligator is the follow-up to Team Apache, which UK developer Simis released about two 
 years ago under the imprint of SSI/Mindscape. This time around, the publisher is GT Interactive, 
 and instead of the AH-64 Apache, the star of this particular simulation is the Kamov Ka-52 Alligator, 
 a two-seat command/attack helicopter of Russian manufacture. The game comes with two scripted campaigns 
 and a variety of stand-alone combat missions, which you fly as a member of the Russian armed forces. 
 While the Ka-52 is a two-seater, Team Alligator puts you in the place of the pilot, while the weapons 
 officer is controlled by the computer.  

 Team Alligator is billed as an "action sim," which should immediately tip off hard-core simulation 
 fans that the game is not meant to compete with more technically accurate sims like Longbow 2 or 
 Apache/Havoc. Instead, Team Alligator attempts to provide a reasonable facsimile of helicopter 
 flight while concentrating on creating an interesting and immersive environment. This approach 
 worked well for its predecessor, Team Apache. Unfortunately, Team Alligator's stripped-down flight 
 model is a spectacular failure that taints all other parts of the game, making it much less than 
 what it could have been.  

 Team Alligator's focus is on running a squad of six Alligator helicopters while progressing through 
 two different campaigns, one set in Belarus and the other in Tajikistan. You're tasked not only 
 with flying the lead helicopter in each mission but also with managing the pilots under your command. 
 To this end you can even discipline your pilots or offer them "treats," such as American candy 
 bars (of which you have a limited supply) . This role-playing aspect is actually quite enjoyable, 
 and it gives a good feeling of overall command. There are also plenty of wingman commands to help 
 direct your squad's attack while the mission is actually in progress. However, there's no mission 
 builder, so you'll have to be satisfied with the campaigns or the stand-alone and instant-action 
 missions. The game also supports up to eight players in head-to-head mode, and cooperative multiplay 
 can accommodate up to six.  

 Team Alligator's terrain graphics are very crisp and effective, especially at low altitudes. However, 
 the effect is marred slightly by melting terrain on the horizon. The object detail is very nice 
 in Team Alligator - for instance, the game looks particularly impressive when you're lining up 
 a close-range shot at a tank. But the cockpit is blurry and difficult to read in 3D mode, meaning 
 that many players will opt to fly in "HUD-only" mode, which detracts from the sim's visual realism. 

 The avionics are clearly simplified and are meant to get new gamers quickly into the sim. To this 
 end, the game includes a manual that not only explains the basic functions of the helicopter's 
 weapons and controls clearly and effectively, but also explains the basics of helicopter performance 
 and flight characteristics for those unfamiliar with rotary-wing aircraft. To top it all off, there 
 are some good training missions that will have new pilots flying quickly and easily after one session 
 with the game.  

 The general concept of mixing action and simulation elements is fine, but any flight simulation 
 worthy of that distinction needs to have at least a reasonably believable flight model. Unfortunately, 
 the flight model in Team Alligator is decidedly strange. The Team Apache flight model before it 
 wasn't extremely realistic either, but it at least gave a good approximation of helicopter behavior 
 while still letting relative novices quickly master the essentials of flight and air combat. On 
 the other hand, Team Alligator exhibits bizarre behavior that calls into question what, if anything, 
 the game is supposed to be simulating. The most noticeable problem with Team Alligator is that certain 
 angles of attack appear to have absolutely no effect on flight. For example, the helicopter can 
 be made to hover and then tilted substantially to the left or right with no sideslip whatsoever. 
 Once the helo has been tilted past a given point, sideways movement takes place. This also occurs 
 with forward and reverse movement, meaning that in practice the Ka-52 can maintain unrealistic 
 angles of hover. There seems to be a similar drop-off in stability where the helicopter departs 
 controlled flight rapidly but is unnaturally stable prior to that. The relationship of collective 
 and cyclic to altitude and airspeed can also be quite abnormal, causing the aircraft to accelerate 
 and decelerate when it shouldn't do so. In short, the game does a terrible job of reproducing the 
 rudiments of helicopter performance.  

 The problem with the joystick dead zone is equally disturbing. On many controllers, a dead zone 
 exists where stick deflection does not result in any response from the helo. For example, you might 
 tilt the stick substantially to the left without causing any pitch change to the aircraft. Then, 
 once the stick passes a certain point, the helicopter will all of a sudden pitch violently to that 
 side. This seems to be controller-dependent but in a completely unpredictable way. Consequently, 
 fine control of the aircraft is almost impossible, and even skilled pilots will end up rolling 
 the copter side-to-side like a rowboat in the ocean. This is separate from the "control lag" flight-model 
 option that is available, which attempts to mimic the lag between pilot manipulation of the controls 
 in a real helicopter and the machine's response. Players suffering from an excessive joystick dead 
 zone should turn control lag off, as this may improve performance.  

 But what is strangest about Team Alligator is that it does model some technical aerodynamic factors 
 peculiar to helicopter flight, such as blade stall and vortex ring state, which a less ambitious 
 sim would simply have ignored. You even get the ability to reverse the collective, letting gamers 
 who are used to the reversed throttle characteristic of helicopters not to have to pretend they're 
 flying jet aircraft. It's clear that Simis was out to create a good approximation of the Ka-52 
 in flight rather than the bizarre UFO that is present in the game and which seems to write its 
 own laws of physics. But unfortunately, the flight model that ships with the game is so bad that 
 it borders on the unplayable. If you are unlucky enough to have a controller setup that suffers 
 from the dead-zone problem, control of the helicopter (especially left and right cyclic) will be 
 so frustrating that you'll feel the need to take a handful of tranquilizers before playing the 
 game. There's a user-created patch to the flight model available at an unofficial Ka-52 Team Alligator 
 site, but while it helps correct some of the physics anomalies, it doesn't correct the dead-zone 
 problem.  

 Ka-52 Team Alligator had the potential to offer the enjoyment of the Team Apache squad-management 
 concept with modern graphics in a novel helicopter with interesting flight characteristics. However, 
 the broken flight model interferes with play so badly that most of the fun is lost. In addition, 
 the control problems can make the game impossible to play if you're unlucky enough to have a controller 
 that suffers from them. If GT Interactive and Simis were able to fix these twoflaws, the game would 
 have been worth purchasing. However, in its current state, Ka-52 Team Alligator is best left on 
 the store shelf.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
