-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: KAO the Kangaroo
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/kaothekangaroo/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  9, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.4
Critic Score: 6.7, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 14 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Titus Software
Genre: Action
Date:     Feb 20, 2001

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Part of what makes Kao enjoyable is the mix of traditional platform game mechanics and the occasional 
 extreme sports experience. 

 KAO the Kangaroo is a fun, lighthearted platform action game with colorful graphics, challenging 
 and varied levels, and fast-paced gameplay. The game stars Kao, a young kangaroo that has been 
 captured from the wild and has been taken far away from his family. In order to get back home, 
 Kao must use his two main skills -- jumping and boxing -- to overcome more than 45 levels filled with 
 treacherous obstacles and comical enemies. In addition to the general obstacle-course-style levels 
 that involve a traditional mix of jumping across pits, punching enemies, and collecting power-ups, 
 the game includes several levels based on different extreme sports. These levels are interspersed 
 among the rest of the levels, and they give the game a nice sense of variety. Though the production 
 values of the game are on par with most other games in the genre, it is evident that the developer 
 could have spent more time fixing some minor bugs that appear occasionally in the game.        
    The game's levels are colorful and bright    

  The game begins with a simple animated sequence of Kao playing with his friends, only to get caught 
 in a cage and taken away. The graphics in this scene, as well as throughout the game, are bright 
 and cheerful, even in the most dangerous levels. The cartoon-style characters and the clean, straightforward 
 3D environments give the game a sense of lightheartedness, even when Kao falls victim to the gameworld's 
 many dangers. One of the biggest problems you might encounter is the somewhat unpredictable movement 
 of the third-person perspective camera, but you can overcome this problem once you become accustomed 
 to the game, either by making some slight changes to Kao's position or by using the recentering 
 button and the first-person perspective button. However, the game occasionally does automatically 
 set itself to a specific point of view, such as when a large boulder comes rolling down a passageway 
 after Kao, and in other cases, Kao must traverse levels that seem better suited to a side view 
 than a third-person perspective. As you will notice with many other aspects of the game, these 
 camera changes are somewhat frustrating at first, but once you get used to them, they become just 
 another part of the game.   

  KAO the Kangaroo's sound and music are appropriate. Each level features an upbeat soundtrack, and 
 most of Kao's moves have an accompanying sound effect, which gives a little more punch to the kangaroo's 
 punches. Unfortunately, the sound and music both tend to become repetitious, and you may end up 
 turning them off. Luckily, sound doesn't play a critical role in the game, so you can enjoy Kao 
 equally well both with and without sound.           Kao has a number of special abilities like 
 jumping and punching    

  Part of what makes Kao enjoyable is the mix of traditional platform game mechanics and the occasional 
 extreme sports experience. The gameplay in the more traditional levels is similar to many other 
 platform action games, although Kao's collection of moves helps make the game a bit more interesting. 
 For instance, Kao has a number of different options when he encounters an enemy. To avoid the enemy, 
 he can use a combination of running, jumping, and sidestepping; to attack the enemy at close range, 
 he can use his one-two punch and tail swipe; or to defeat an opponent from a distance, he can throw 
 a boxing glove -- Kao's equivalent of a guided missile.    

 KAO the Kangaroo's level design is fun, although it can be frustrating at times, even on the easiest 
 difficulty setting. Most levels require multiple attempts to complete, and some are fairly long 
 and complicated. Fortunately, Kao begins the game with a number of reserve lives and can earn extra 
 lives both by collecting single power-ups and by collecting 50 of the gold coins that are scattered 
 throughout each level. In addition, you can place checkpoints partway along the levels. As with 
 many other similar games, checkpoints cause any additional lives to start at that point in the 
 level, rather than from the beginning. Kao starts each level with a set number of checkpoints and 
 can find more along the way.   

  The extreme sports levels seem a bit like playtime after working harder on the traditional platform 
 action levels. This isn't to say they aren't challenging, but they are generally less intense than 
 the other levels. Some of the extreme sports levels include hang-gliding over a river of lava, 
 skating down a curving ice ramp, and snowboarding along a mountain course complete with jumps and 
 banked turns.           The game features bonus levels with extreme sports    

  The 25 main levels in the game are split into five distinct worlds, and at the end of each world 
 there's a "boss level," which consists of a one-on-one fight between Kao and a powerful and challenging 
 enemy. In most cases Kao's usual attacks won't affect the boss, so you must discover the trick 
 to defeat it. In addition to the regular levels and boss levels, you can also find several bonus 
 levels along the way. These bonus levels usually consist of a large number of gold coins spread 
 around a small area with a higher concentration of traps or enemies than you'll find on ordinary 
 levels. The reward can be great if you complete these levels, but they tend to be riskier. Since 
 it takes 50 gold coins to get an extra life, you have to be sure of your skills before venturing 
 into one of these bonus levels.   

  One of the more disappointing things about KAO the Kangaroo is its fairly frequent -- and distracting -- bugs. 
 The game frequently has problems starting up -- we tried it on two different test systems and encountered 
 the same problems -- but once the game is running, bugs are fairly rare. Usually after restarting 
 the computer or ejecting and reinserting the CD-ROM once or twice, the game will start successfully. 
 We also encountered occasional crashes while running the game.           Kao can collect gold coins 
 to gain extra lives    

  Another small problem with the game is its lack of distinction between the easy, medium, and hard 
 difficulty settings. In some parts of the game it's difficult to see any real difference at all 
 between the three modes, although there are some simple numerical changes -- where there is only 
 one trap on the easy setting, there may be three or four in a row on the hard setting -- but these 
 changes do little to alter the fundamental difficulty of the levels. Nevertheless, although some 
 players new to platform action games might find even the easy setting fairly difficult, the game's 
 general difficulty is appropriate for most players.   

  Despite these deterrents, KAO the Kangaroo is an enjoyable platform action game. Its bright, colorful 
 environments and endearing marsupial hero make the game appropriate for children, while its clean 
 3D graphics and varied level design make it a good choice for older fans of the genre as well. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
