-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Keepsake
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/keepsake/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Unique and challenging puzzles.
 Handy hint system helps keep the game moving.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some of the worst voice acting you will ever hear.
 Blurry, low-res backgrounds.
 Dull characters and an uninteresting story.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 20, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.2
Critic Score: 6.9, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 299 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: The Adventure Company
Developer: Wicked Studios
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Mar 31, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's got some occasionally interesting puzzles, but the lame story and irritating characters kill 
 whatever appeal Keepsake might have had. 

  The tagline of Keepsake is "An Unforgettable Adventure." That's not only about the most generic 
 and vague description possible, but it's also completely untrue. Keepsake is so dull and forgettable 
 that once you reach the end of the 10-plus-hour adventure, you'll have a hard time remembering 
 why you were even playing it in the first place. To its credit, Keepsake does have plenty of unique 
 and challenging puzzles, so if that's what you play adventure games for, you'll be satisfied with 
 this one. But if you're looking for engaging characters and a compelling story to carry you between 
 puzzles, you won't find them here.  

          Lydia shows up for her first day of school only to realize that the school has been deserted. 
     

  The story of Keepsake begins when a young woman named Lydia shows up at the Dragonvale Academy, 
 where she plans to meet up with her old pal Celeste and study the arcane arts to become a mage. 
 When Lydia gets to the school Celeste is nowhere to be found, and in fact, it seems that the entire 
 student body has vanished into thin air. So Lydia does a bit of exploring to see if she can figure 
 out what's going on at the academy, eventually unraveling the mystery after solving many, many 
 magic puzzles. The problem is that the story progresses so slowly that it doesn't even get slightly 
 interesting until the very final stages of the game. The characters are devoid of personality, 
 the dialogue is sappy and forced, and the voice acting is painfully bad. It all adds up to a go-nowhere 
 story with annoying characters, which certainly won't inspire you to keep playing.  

  Keepsake sticks closely to the point-and-click adventure game template that has been in use for 
 the past 15 years or so. You move Lydia by clicking on various parts of a static background. The 
 camera angles are all fixed, so you move from one background to another as you reach the edge of 
 each screen. Using this method you can explore the twisting hallways of the academy -- although the 
 place is deserted, so there isn't all that much to see. The cursor icon changes shape when you 
 can interact with an object or go in for closer inspection, so if you're unsure of what you're 
 supposed to do you can just move the cursor around until you find the right part of the background 
 to interact with. There's an inventory system as well, but you hardly ever have to use it. Most 
 of the time you just click your way through hallway after hallway and room after room until you 
 find the right puzzle or item to move the story along.  

  There are quite a few puzzles in the game, and many of them are actually fairly fun and challenging. 
 There are the standard mechanism puzzles where you have to align gears and flip switches in the 
 right order to activate some machine; there are spatial puzzles that require you to move an item 
 or icon from one space to another while obeying some convoluted system of logic; and there are 
 even a few riddles to solve. Some of the puzzles are easy to figure out, but later puzzles offer 
 no clue as to what your objective is. Thankfully, there's a built-in hint system that you can use 
 to help clear any hurdles the game throws at you. Each puzzle has three hints, so if you just want 
 a little bit of help you can ask for the first hint, which usually just gives you a basic explanation 
 of how the puzzle works. If you're still stuck you can ask for two more hints, which pretty much 
 spell out exactly what you need to do to solve the puzzle. If that's still too much work for you, 
 you can choose to have the solution revealed to you, and you can then sit back and watch the puzzle 
 solve itself.  

          Instead of rejoicing and taking the day off to go fishing with Huck Finn, she breaks in 
 and starts solving puzzles.     

  By solving puzzles you can unlock doors or obtain special items that are required to progress the 
 story. The problem is that the time between puzzles is spent aimlessly wandering through the academy 
 searching for where you need to go next. You can use the hint system to tell you exactly where 
 you need to go, but actually finding the place is still a chore, because it takes forever as Lydia 
 trots along through room after room. Since you have to do a lot of item fetching, you end up covering 
 the same ground over and over, which gets old very quickly. It might be excusable if the environments 
 actually looked good, but they don't. The backgrounds are blurry, low-resolution images that only 
 occasionally come to life during equally unimpressive video sequences. Even the cutscenes are just 
 static, colorless images with horrendous voice-over narration.  

  Although Keepsake follows an old formula, it's the tired presentation and mind-numbing narrative 
 that drag the game down. There's too much time spent running around looking at the same boring 
 backgrounds and hearing the same old story that never actually gets anywhere. Unless you're a very 
 forgiving adventure game fan in search of some new puzzles to solve, there's no reason to play 
 Keepsake.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (19 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: andruxandd
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 23, 2009 5:16 am PT
Review:  This is the most hard adventure game made... With a strange fantasy-story that keep you "on the 
 boil" and hard puzzles; this... Keepsake does he manage to survive in a top of adventure games airiness 
 amazing hint system who help the player to go next. Without this hint system i doubt someone can 
 play this game. And of course without walkthroughs :) 
  
  Now... the story is a little strange. Lydia, our heroine want to be a... millionaire :) no way, come 
 on, i just joke :) , Lydia want to be a wizard!... and come to school but there are not students 
 and teachers, no one, the entire university is... almost... empty. Even Celeste, girl friend of Lydia 
 is missing... so this is strange and need to find what it happened in this place. From this point 
 the game start and will be more hours of riddles and puzzles and a wolf-cat-dragon-human... don't 
 want to spoil.
  
  The game is very hard but with help of hint system which show what path is next and will offer 
 u 3 steps-hints on each puzzles and the 4step given even the answer this game become a good game 
 and very attractive. However, the most BIG mistake is absence of a MAP in game!... very hard in 
 game to travel from a location to another and don't get lost. Our luck, this map can be find into 
 a walkthroughs...
  
  To the end... Keepsake is a attractive game with more surprises and even is a hard-game-puzzles 
 this puzzles are amazing and provoker for those they have inventiveness and some genius-brain. Graphics 
 of Keepsake are good, sound, music great.
  Game is sad in some moments and to the end but  and very nice 
 dialogue warm up the player.
  
  Keepsake is a good game, not so popular, most a tragedy folk tale. Anyway, gamespot give a 5.2 score 
 and i disagree with that... is a ambitious game with more potential.
  
  Graphics: 8
  Story: 7
  Sound, music, voices: 8
  END: 6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SYdoggXxX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:  Keepsake isn't what you'd call a blockbuster title; Ok, in this day and age very few (if any) adventure 
 titles could be described as blockbusters, but Keepsake is a game with no grand aspirations. That's 
 not to say it's not good, because it is. It features a beautiful story that focuses on friendship, 
 death, and family issues. It's a simple tale at heart, but a very memorable one. The game also 
 has some of the best puzzles (along with a few doozies) featured in recent adventure games. And 
 Keepsake stands tall above all other adventure games with its neatly implemented "hint system", 
 something that will prevent you from ever getting stuck in the game. Keepsake does have a few issues, 
 poor voice acting, excessive backtracking, and ridiculous puzzles in the second half of the game 
 being the biggest offenders. But in spite of those issues, Keepsake is a memorable adventure that 
 fans of the genre will surely appreciate.
  
  The story features a young woman called Lydia as the protagonist. Lydia is on her way to the Dragonvale 
 magic academy, where aside from learning her magical craft, she will reunite with her longtime 
 friend Celeste, whom she hasn't seen in several years. Unfortunately when Lydia arrives at the 
 academy, Celeste is nowhere to be found. In fact, the academy seems to be completely deserted. 
 As Lydia wanders around the academy looking for someone, she stumbles upon a wolf named Zak (who 
 was trapped in a closet) , who actually claims to really be a dragon who was turned into a wolf 
 by a group of students. Zak serves as the main sidekick for the rest of the adventure, and just 
 like Lydia, he appears to be just as ignorant to the events occurring in the academy. Zak is a 
 great character who has a great rapport with Lydia, and as the game progresses, you will be witness 
 to the bond that grows between them. Early on, part of their quest will focus on trying to find 
 a way to turn Zak back into his dragon form, but eventually Lydia will have to get deeper into 
 the academy to find Celeste. Lydia will come across a few characters that will reveal some back 
 story, but most of the important revelations take place during several visions that she has through 
 the game. It's in those visions that she'll find out what Celeste has been going through in the 
 academy (as well as the truth behind Zak's story) , and though things appear somewhat confusing 
 at first, it all comes together at the end. The story in Keepsake is more focused on issues such 
 as friendship, family issues, and dealing with death. There's no grandiose quest to save the world 
 here, and I for one found it to be a refreshing change of pace.
  
  Like all adventure games, Keepsake features a healthy does of puzzles and for the most part they're 
 awesome. Particularly the puzzles in the first half of the game are very intuitive and really fun 
 to solve. A lot of them focus on getting machines to work, while others feature mini games as well 
 as the occasional riddle. During this section of the game it's very clear what has to be done in 
 the puzzles, but if you're having a hard time, Keepsake features one of the best implemented features 
 in any adventure game, a "hint system" that will guide you through the process of solving the puzzle. 
 You're first presented with a hint that explains the basics of the puzzle; if you need more info, 
 two additional hints will pretty much layout exactly what you have to do. But if you're still struggling 
 the game offers the option to solve the puzzle for you. What this means is that you'll hardly ever 
 get frustrated while playing Keepsake, since the hint system ensures you'll never get stuck in 
 a certain puzzle for too long.
  
  What's better is that for the most part (at least during the first part of the game) you won't 
 resort to such option, since the puzzles are clearly laid out and the initial hints are all the 
 help you'll need. Unfortunately during the second half of the game a good portion of the puzzles 
 turn out to be very contrived, with ridiculous solutions or excessive amount of backtracking necessary. 
 You'll certainly be forced to exhaust the hints with these puzzles, since they're so unintuitive 
 you'll hardly have any idea as to where to start. The fact that you can skip them altogether is 
 neat, but I honestly wish the game would've been able to maintain the same level of complexity 
 in the puzzles in the second half as it did in the first half. There are still quite a few good 
 puzzles in the second half, but the overall quality does go down quite a bit.
  
  Another area where the hint system helps a lot is in getting around the academy. Though the entire 
 game takes place only in the lower and upper levels of the academy (as well as the magical section 
 of it) , and the nearby forest, navigating through the gameworld can be very confusing, because 
 the academy is a huge building. It won't always be clear where you have to go next, which can lead 
 to pointless wandering through the academy. The game does include a map which definitely comes 
 in handy, but it only highlights the section you're in, not your exact location. Thankfully the 
 hint system comes to the rescue by telling where you have to go next, should you ask of course. 
 There are times when the game could be a bit less revealing though, because sometimes you'll be 
 told where to go, but on different occasions you'll be told where and what you have to do next.
 
  
  Unfortunately the game doesn't feature a fast traveling system which would've been really useful, 
 because there's a lot of walking around you'll do to get between places and sometimes even puzzles 
 themselves will require you to go across the academy from one end to the other, which can be very 
 tedious.
  
  The weakest aspect of Keepsake however is the voice acting. It's really poor overall. The only 
 character whose voice work is solid through and through is Zak. Lydia on the other hand is more 
 of a hit and miss. During regular conversations she does decent enough, but when it's time to deliver 
 an emotional line, her voice actress can't quite nail the feel of the dialogue. She's not awful, 
 but could use a lot of improvement. But there are some characters who are truly abysmally voiced. 
 Mustavio, an Italian merchant (who ironically is the first character you'll hear in the game since 
 he guides you through the tutorial) has a horrendously overdone accent that really makes him come 
 off as a joke. Other characters such as Celeste (voice by the same actress who does Lydia) and 
 her father Nathaniel, are also poorly voiced, something that hampers the emotional impact of the 
 dialogue a bit. This issue rears its ugly head in the final cutscene of the game (which is very 
 emotional) , and you can't help but wonder how much better that scene would've been with solid voice 
 acting.
  
  Fortunately, Lydia and Zak are the two characters you'll constantly hear for the vast majority 
 of the game, so at least you'll be spared of the truly awful voice work for the most of the game. 
 It's also good that the dialogue itself is really well written. Every time something important 
 is revealed or a major event occurs, you'll hear the characters react in the same way you'd expect 
 yourself to react. The dialogue ends up making up for most of the voice acting's faults.
  
  As far as the music goes, it's quite the contrary of the voice acting. The music in the game is 
 lovely and fits the nature of the game perfectly. Personally, I loved the menu theme which was 
 very soothing and relaxing, and really set in the mood to play the game for hours at a time. It's 
 too bad that for large chunks of the game you'll go with no background music, but on the positive 
 side this does help convey the feeling of loneliness Lydia and Zak are going through.
  
  Regarding the sound there is one issue worth mentioning. The game seems to have a problem with 
 certain audio drivers, something that may cause the game to crash on a few very specific occasions 
 (and they're ugly crashes by the way, blue screen of death instant reboot type of crashes) . To 
 avoid any potential problems update both your video and sound drivers, and patch the game too. 
 But if the crashes persist, reduce the hardware sound acceleration (execute dxdiag and go to the 
 sound tab, you'll find the option there) . Yes, I know that sounds ridiculous, but trust me, it 
 solves the problem.
  
  The visuals are also great. In fact their one of the strongest aspects of the game. The backgrounds 
 are all 2d, but they're heavily detailed and varied. During cutscenes that play as you solve puzzles, 
 you will see the game swiftly switch to prerendered animations that match the backgrounds, which 
 is a pretty nice effect. The graphics are sophisticated enough from a technical standpoint, and 
 the great art direction elevates them to superb status.
  
  Despite it's obvious faults, I really loved Keepsake. It may not be destined to be a classic alongside 
 "The Longest Journey" and "Syberia", but for any adventure fan, the charming story, lovable characters, 
 and unique puzzles, will make it a worthwhile adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 27, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Memory is an important part of every human being no matter how it tastes. The sweet days of childhood, 
 the bitterness of an amour, sometimes we should stop a moment to revise every rise and fall in 
 our life. That's what Lydia, the leading role in Keepsake, thinks. She wants to find her closest 
 from the childhood because the image of the old days keeps haunting her. When returning to Dragonvale 
 institute of magic, what she finds is not Celeste but the fact that everyone here is disappearing 
 into the space. So Lydia starts her adventure to discover that mystery, in the hope of meeting 
 her beloved friend again.
  
  Keepsake has a very distinct puzzle collection with large number, high density of appearance and 
 wide variety of types and difficulties. The most common puzzles are to repair, operate many kinds 
 of machines (rotate the cogwheels, control the pivot ect) . Besides, there are ones concerning chess 
 games, magical door ect... Most of them are so innovative that players will feel as if it is the 
 first time they encounter these puzzles. If at first it takes only few minutes to figure out the 
 answer, later game will increase the difficulty level so that the time of pondering over a chess 
 board, for instance, can be half an hour. However, don't worry too much about that since Keepsake 
 has an internal mechanism to help overcome too tough puzzles: each of them has three hints, from 
 cursory to detailed! In case these hints are not enough, there is an option to skip that part by 
 having the machine to do all the details. After that, we will receive the information as if we 
 solved the quest ourselves. Keepsake also provides us with a "tourist guide" tool to point out 
 the location of each objectives in the play scene. Up to now, you may think this game is like a 
 piece of cake! Don't be so hasty.
  
  The game may suggest how and where to solve the puzzle, but even then you still have to find your 
 way towards that right location. With the grandiose architecture of the academy, it is the real 
 challege of this game. The academy consists of two main part: one on the ground and the other hanging 
 in the space. 2/3 of your time will be spent on the ground. Only after passing three challenging 
 tests can you advance to the space level. However, whichever part you are playing, it will take 
 a huge amount of time to reach the right destination to solve a quest. One reason is the maze-like 
 structure of the whole building which contains a large number of hidden paths and accumulating 
 roads in all directions. Another is the annoying default camera angle which somehow makes it extremely 
 hard to find out the access for some paths. Lydia also has a companion, another student in this 
 institute, but he always metamorphoses himself into some kind of animals, hence, feels more like 
 a pet than a friends. His role in the whole story is also insipid, most of the time he just follows 
 you and provides several hints when encountering a new puzzle. There is one strange thing for a 
 puzzle game in Keepsake: the developers has totally rejected the item combining type of puzzle. 
 Moreover, it only provides one save slot so you have to be very careful before overwriting the 
 old file. There are also automatic check points in some room which activates once you solve the 
 puzzles there, but this mechanism seems useless because the story is so vague that you can hardly 
 remember what you have already done in which location.
  
  The strongest point of the game is its splendid graphics, which raise the feeling of a mysterious 
 yet magnificent castle. Dragonvale possesses an impeccable architecture, which consists of two 
 totally different parts: The first floor is more like an ancient castle with sophisticated design 
 in its interior; the second looks occult like a wizard laboratory with experiment tools and many 
 magical doorways. Furthermore, we will have a chance to contemplate miraculous scenes such as the 
 growth of strange plants into a fanciful bridge. Unfortunately, sound part does not match the graphics. 
 If the lack of background track makes players feel lonely throughout the game, the horrible voice 
 play is an insult to beautiful character models.
  
  Keepsake is an good looking game but suffers too many internal problems. Hopefully one day, we 
 will have a more indepth sequels of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vego_REbel
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Lydia's best friend Celeste moved far away when her father got a job as a principal. Lydia and 
 Celeste gave each other a keepsake, Celeste gave Lydia her dead mothers pendant and Lydia gave 
 Celeste her favourite clown-doll.
  
  There should be hundreds of students should at the academy, but there is none to be found...
 
  
  And when she finds the doll she gave to Celeste sitting on the grass, she realise that something 
 is terrible wrong, Celeste would never leave the doll behind like that.
  
  Amazing adventure game with music that suits the game perfectly.
  
  It can be a little annoying 
 when there is an conversation between two characters, they will just keep babbling about stuff 
 that is'nt important and the face animations are not that good either. But there is these wonderful 
 environments that is kinda making up to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morfessa
Rating: 6.4
Date: Feb 21, 2007 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 7
  
  Keepsake is fun to play if you like the exploration and puzzle games out there. This is not for 
 the bloodthirsty action-hungry crowd, however. The puzzles are reminiscent of the ones found in 
 games like MYST.
  
  Graphics 8
  
  Keepsake looks good and has some nice effects such as flowing water and wind-blown tree foliage. 
 The graphics are not amazing though, but at least Keepsake will run on your older computer sysytem 
 (within the required system specifications of course!) .
  
  Sound 4
  
  Occasionally, Keepsake feels hollow or empty with regard to sound quality. As for the voice acting, 
 Keepsake does not do well. The writing is poor, but the voices and the quality of acting is very 
 poor. The music in Keepsake is not bad, though sparse.
  
  Value 6
  
  Keepsake is worth picking up if you see it in the bargain bin. It is a slower-paced game with no 
 real action or violence -- a good rainy day game. For those who enjoy a little exploration and a 
 lot of puzzles, Keepsake may be just right.
  
  Tilt 6
  
  The poor script and quite poor voice acting ruin the immersion this game attempts to create. The 
 story is quite linear, but that isn't always a bad thing. That being said, Keepsake is nothing 
 fantastic, but does a have a particular 'feel' to it that will keep curious players engaged and 
 puzzle fans playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baloneysammich
Rating: 1.7
Date: Jan 27, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Slow unnatural speech, annoying puzzles with NO story flow. Characters didn't even know what 'teleport' 
 (the word) means, yet she has to save the school alone?!
  
  time wasting travel between screens - it takes 5 clicks/screens to move from one room to the next~! 
 Tiny areas to click to move on, frustrating red 'X' all the time.
  
  stupid 'visions' as an excuse to throw you from right next to where you need to be next, to the 
 far side of the map.
  
  I couldn't finish playing the game, such clicking and everyone speeaakkksss llliiikkkee tthheeeyy'rrreeee 
 
  
  Graphics aren't even that good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: byge
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 31, 2006 5:16 pm PT
Review:  First off yes the voice acting in the game is horrible BUT luckily a patch released by The Adventure 
 company has released a voice patch for the game which makes the Vvoice acting tolerable. It can 
 be downloaded here
  http://wickedstudios. com/keepsake/
  Also gamespot failed to mention much about the music of the game which fits perfectly in sync with 
 the game. Also the game's main story is not lame far from it in fact. The game has some strong 
 themes like love and friendship in it. The game has a rather sad ending. Gameplay wise the game 
 has some rather difficult puzzles but which can easily be bypassed with the help of the hint of 
 a system. Graphically wise the game may not look for a 2006 standard wise game but the artistic 
 look is quite good.
  
  Overall a good adventure game which i would definitely recommend to any adventure game fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LKlimo
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 30, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  I love adventure games but do get frustrated not knowing which way to go next. I always end up 
 going to the cheats and .... spoiling my game. With the hint system, it keeps you going and gives 
 you a rush to know you're heading in the right direction ON YOUR OWN. Also, the hints with the 
 puzzles are great. Just enough to get you started, but not enough to give you the answer ... unless 
 you want it to. You do end up going around in a lot of circles in the beginning trying to get from 
 one spot to the next, but once you're into the game, you can pretty much figure out the short cuts. 
 I'd like to see this kind of hint system on all adventure games, but then I guess it would put 
 the people who do the walkthroughs out of business! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d-rtyboy
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 24, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  I really liked this game. I think people knock it because it isn't a fast paced action game. It 
 is definitely not for all you twitch-game fanatics. It does move slowly and the plot is sentimental 
 and cute, which may not go over well with macho types. I found it to be a good break from the typical 
 blast-a-thons that overcrowd the market. I think that's what makes it unique that you don't have 
 to kill anything to win the game.
  
  The voice acting was on the bad side but wasn't unbearable. I think it went well with the cutesy 
 feeling of the game. With that in mind I think the developers of this game had the fairer sex in 
 mind. The plot revolves around Lydia showing up to Dragonvale Academy for her first day at school 
 only to find the school empty. The first cut scene shows Lydia and Celest exchanging keepsakes 
 and making some sort of friendship promise. Now, most guys I know would probably puke had they 
 had to sit through such a mushy tale of female bonding, I just swallowed my macho pride and found 
 it refreshingly different.
  
  Graphics:
  
  While the graphics aren't technically good as compared to contemporary first person shooters like 
 FEAR. What I really liked is the scenery, it had an artistic quality not matched in most games 
 and gave the game a unique feel. You really felt immersed in the environment. I really appreciated 
 the uniquely beautiful landscape. Exploring the castle I always felt a presense as if it were alive. 
 To sum up, it won't burden your graphics card but you won't care because the aesthetics were very 
 imaginative and stimulating.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The puzzles were challenging but not too difficult as in some other games where you need a walk 
 through for nearly every stupid puzzle. They made you think and you were always able to discern 
 some of the puzzle without resorting to the help button. I only had to cheat once, and the help 
 button didn't ruin any of the puzzles as it didn't usually give away the answer. My only gripe 
 about the gameplay is that manipulating objects was a little awkward and sometimes it was unclear 
 where to go, but you'd just hit the help button and it would say walk up these stairs or whatever.
 
  
  What really hit home for me with this game, is the old school feel. It really reminded me of all 
 those great times playing games like Kings Quest. While it isn't the classic that the Kings Quest 
 series was, if you liked that you're sure to get some enjoyment from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tvov
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 12, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  My daughter picked up this game, and loves it. I would say it is good for young teens and pre-teens. 
 Graphics are pretty good, some scenes are very good. Yes, the voice acting and plot is not fantastic, 
 but I give it a pretty good score. Older players (older teens and up) will probably not be interested 
 in this game. The puzzles are good and the hint system is great to help keep the game moving. Gameplay 
 is very easy, just point and click. As with similar games, many times you have to do things in 
 a certain order to proceed, so you have to keep that in mind if you get "stuck".
  Considering the difficulty in finding games for kids, I think this is a good one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alahner
Rating: 3.4
Date: Jul 9, 2006 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Well I have to admit it looked like an interesting game when I was at the store, too bad you I 
 can't get my money back.
  
  The graphics aren't all completely bad, however when ever you go into a flashback or you are teleporting 
 the graphics get pixel-ated and blurred. This game was definitely made for a system that is running 
 low graphics, since I run a crossfire on mine I only seen a few decent graphics. (Darn us gamers 
 who have high end systems.)
  
  The sound definitley was appaling, there is a constant echo that drives you nuts. Not only that 
 these "voice actors" obviously don't know how to pronouce a lot of the words very well either.
 
  
  I think the only voice that was half way decent was for "ZAK", though the actor couldn't pronouce 
 CHIMARA (not sure I spelled that right) .
  
  Other than that the game play really seems to mimic games such as "Myst", or even "The Omega Stone". 
 The sad thing is this company seems to be going down hill just as much as Legacy Interactive.
 
  
  Final note, after playing this game I almost thought I had gone back 10 years or more due to the 
 lack of technology used for graphics. The box definitely lies and is obviously all artist renderings 
 of the what the graphics should or could look like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpgoodwin
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 5, 2006 11:37 pm PT
Review:  Perhaps the script was written by a social worker. More likely there was a short outline, and then 
 it was padded out by a total moron. You can feel
  your IQ dropping as you play.
  
  The male voice acting is terrible - really, really bad. But don't worry. 
  There is no need to 
 strangle the voice actor, because someone was doing that while they were recording.
  
  The graphics are much better than the main review suggests, and totally wasted. You cannot enjoy 
 them, because the story is so dull that it actually depresses you - its humiliating to be playing 
 such a bad game. If it wasnt for the beautiful graphics i would have given up long ago.
  
  The game developers underestimated the intelligence of game-players. They expect you to be smart 
 enough to do the puzzles, but stupid enough to listen to the script. Since you cannot be both smart 
 and stupid at once, noone will enjoy this game to the full.
  
  Its targeted at girls. Wake up - girls are not stupid, they are just girly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MOBucky
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jun 8, 2006 8:24 pm PT
Review:  I didn't care for this game at all. There's lots of walking around and being shifted by outside 
 forces and the puzzles are of variable interest. Many are just busywork. I admit I didn't finish 
 the thing, getting bored rather quickly. The best feature about this game was the help feature, 
 which kept me from getting totally lost and wandering around aimlessly trying to figure out where 
 it expected me to go.
  My standard disclaimer for the scoring below: I find these very difficult. Many games can be picked 
 up almost immediately but I continue to learn new things as long as I play. I dont keep track 
 of how many hours I play. Finally, I dont pay much attention to the graphics or sound unless they 
 annoy me or get in my way, so I never know how to score them. Unless elsewise discussed in this 
 review, these things need to be kept in mind when judging how I score the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: virumor
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 8, 2006 3:35 am PT
Review:  Keepsake is a 3rd person point & click adventure game taking place in a fairytale setting, in which 
 you'll guide your alter-ego Lydia through her first day of school at the magic academy of Dragonvale 
 - and it proves to be quite a first day of school, indeed.
  
  Like many 3rd person point & click games, Keepsake makes use of 3D models poised in pre-rendered 
 backgroounds. Those backgrounds look amazing, and really manage to create a wonderful magical atmosphere, 
 and definitely succeeds in bringing the fairytale story alive.
  
  The 3D models, however, don't look quite impressive, but to me this is hardly an issue. After all, 
 we're having an adventure game here, and the most important aspects of this game genre are the 
 storyline and puzzles.
  
  As for the storyline, it kept me curious til the end, even though I must admit that one part of 
 the story was particularly predictable.
  
  The puzzles are generally quite original, and neither too easy or too difficult, but especially 
 fun to solve. There is one puzzle though (on the 2nd floor of the academy) which is very very hard, 
 and another one (on the same floor) which involves a whole lot of backtracking and hence can get 
 quite frustrating - but this is hardly an issue, since the less patient adventure gamer can ask 
 the game to solve those puzzles instead of plowing through it using the excellent hint-system integrated 
 in the game. 
  
  As for the sound, some reviewers have been complaining about the voice-acting, but I personally 
 didn't have any trouble with this; I only found the merchant and the tree-ent a bit over the top. 
 The other voices are fine.
  
  All in all, Keepsake is a refreshing, charming little adventure that is worth checking out by any 
 hardcore adventure gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokisul
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 26, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  I loved games in this genre since Monkey Island 2, and i liked this game too, it really did focus 
 on uncovering a mystery storyline, in a fantasy world.
  There is so many puzzles, and not so much item gathering, the puzzles are in-depth and intresting. 
 Nice original thing really. 
  BUT, there is sooooo much walking around! Navigating this place really does require a map!!! Was 
 a bit of a sad ending too, but in general i did like it. 
  
  Defiently intended for more simple adventurers tho, as there is a help system to tell you where 
 to go, what to do, and hell if your stuck on a puzzle it will solve it for you! Shesh! 
  
  Graphics, art work and story amazing, tho the gameplay... i prefer more of a challenge. Still a 
 good game overall tho :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jonte187
Rating: 3.6
Date: Apr 21, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  The first thing you will notice is the terrible voice-acting from your character, thats something 
 every creator can see and fix easy (unless she is someones girlfriend) . A thing like that can drag 
 down a game so much and it does.
  And the story wasnt so captivating either its more like an excuse for solving puzzles. The only 
 thing that were ok was the puzzles and thats the least you can demand an adventure game.
  The graphic was bad and feelt very outdated nothing for a real 2006 player. If they want to be 
 in the business for much longer they must update the graphic.
  And the sound wasnt so good either it feelt buggy and not tested with bad volume changes from time 
 to time.
  I concsider myself as a hardcore adventure gamer and think my opinion is correct but i maybe been 
 cranky and got the wrong impression. It was a wonder i completed the game but i was sick and had 
 nothing to do and like i said i bought the damn game. 
  And the sad thing is that a lot of bad games can be played for fun just becuase they are bad, but 
 this game was only boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chino99
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 20, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Ok, this is not a great game, but neither is that bad, the voice acting is very bad and the story 
 is not atractive but it has good puzzles and you will have a nice time with this game, this game 
 is underestimated, it offers a good and innovative gameplay that is also very simple, the graphics 
 and sound are fine and the game in general is more than acceptable, is very fun and worth the try 
 . I have nothing more to say except i recommend it for all the adventure genre fans who surely 
 will enjoy the game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nulike
Rating: 6.2
Date: Apr 20, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Keepsake. It surely had the potential to become a nice addition to the genre. But some critical 
 omissions dumped its value to a fair, spend-and-kill-time game.
  
  The gameplay, while sticking to the classic point-and-click, makes some small improvements overall. 
 The most obvious example is that Lydia (the main character) can "skip" some camera angles if you 
 click on points beyond your normal reach. The interface was meant to be as simple as possible, 
 and the designers kept true to that principle. Normally you'll have only three buttons on your 
 lower left: A big green one that activates the inventory, documents, cinematics, options and save/quits; 
 the map button (nice idea since the academy is quite big) and the hint button. Extremely useful, 
 since it doesn't limits to give puzzle hints (it can also solve puzzles for you if you're frustrated) , 
 but also gives you directions of where you should go next if you're stuck. Still, navigating through 
 the academy will get tiresome due to the distances.
  
  The 2D graphics, while a bit outdated, are quite colorful and add to the ambient of unreality and 
 magic the academy provides. Too bad I can't say the same about the 3D models... animation is chunky 
 and to be honest, badly made.
  
  The sound... Ooooh, woe is me. If I try to be fair, I'd say it has ups and downs, with downs dominating. 
 Kudos to the "Nathaniel" actor. Every other actor can get quite annoying (don't get me started 
 on the merchant...) after a while. Unfortunately Lydia sometimes reminds me of Malibu Barbie giving 
 a speech. Still, the excellent, moody music makes up in the "sound" department.
  
  Finally, the story. Well, the premise seems interesting since the beginning (Lydia goes to the 
 academy to meet her childhood friend and to become a mage, but upon her arrival she finds the school 
 deserted and sets off to find what happened) but believe me when I say that little will change 
 from there. Some minor plot twists liven the story, sadly at its end, and the ending is not too 
 satisfactory either.
  
  If you're a hardcore fan of the genre, like me, you might want to play it, it has interesting and 
 original puzzles and provides a friendly environment to play in. But beware of the downsides, which 
 are quite abundant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alphamaslak
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 17, 2006 6:42 am PT
Review:  I have been playing adventure games for years and I have to say that Keepsake is very good. Its 
 a third person point&click adventure game and the gameplay is amazing. If you have played a game 
 of Syberia series or Longest Journey, you will curve the gameplay. Game's main story is not original, 
 but this doesn't mean it's bad. You play game as a young lady named Lydia. She wants to be a wizard 
 and meet with her old friend, Celeste. But when she came to school, Dragonvale Academy, there are 
 no student or teacher. Your main duty is to find where your best friend and whole students are.
 
  
  The puzzles in the game are well-designed. I say they would be harder. Graphics in the game aren't 
 better than Syberia, but, err, good :) I had been waiting for this game and I say, its worth playing. 
 It's not better than I excepted, but if you want to play a good adventure game, you can buy it. 
 But if you want to play any game better, you have to wait for Paradise... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
