-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Killing Time
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/killingtime/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  7, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.5, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 28 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 3DO
Developer: Intrepid Software
Genre: Action
Date:     Oct 31, 1996

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's a breath of very fresh air. 

 It won't go down as a groundbreaking game, and it certainly isn't perfect. But Killing Time, one 
 of the newest 3DO-to-PC conversions from Studio 3DO, manages to stand out from the crowd of first-person 
 action games on the market, thanks largely to a thoughtful design interweaving setting and story 
 with healthy doses of gunplay and gore.  

 You play an Egyptologist exploring the island of Matinicus, home of the estate of wealthy heiress 
 and lavish party-giver Tess Conway, in search of an ancient Egyptian waterclock said to grant eternal 
 life to whoever possesses it. Unfortunately, it appears that even though Tess Conway was deeply 
 intrigued by the occult, she didn't know exactly how to utilize the waterclock's powers: On the 
 summer solstice in 1932 she vanished, along with several of her friends. Your obvious goal is to 
 find the waterclock, but during the course of your adventure you'll begin to unravel secrets that 
 have been locked inside the Conway estate for more than 60 years - secrets that will reveal just 
 what happened to Tess and her high-society pals.  

 But before you can even start worrying about all that you'll need to get busy finding ammo and weapons 
 so you can mow down the innumerable hordes of ghouls, ghosts, and critters who don't share Tess 
 Conway's sense of hospitality. The pistol you've brought with you is more than enough to handle 
 the zombies stomping around the entrance to the estate, but once you get past them you'll quickly 
 discover you need more firepower - a lot more.   

 There are eight weapons in all here, including a crowbar (definitely a last resort) , shotgun, tommy 
 gun, double pistols (a la John Woo) , flamethrower, Molotov cocktails, and an ankh that wipes out 
 every enemy in a room. While the more powerful weapons sound cool, they're a little difficult to 
 use accurately: The flamethrower requires a nearly perfect hit to be effective, and finding the 
 right range when tossing a Molotov cocktail can take several tries. But you'll get such a kick 
 out of the enemies (22 in all) that you won't mind struggling to master the weapons one bit. Using 
 the trappings of the Roaring Twenties as a touchstone, Logicware has created a crew of nasties 
 who are as hilarious as they are dangerous. In the wooded area surrounding the mansion you'll meet 
 shotgun-wielding hunters and their two-headed hounds of hell; you'll be tipped off to their presence 
 when you hear the hunters whisper a throaty "Here boy!" and then chuckle ominously. Demonic clowns 
 in festive polka-dot jumpers cackle as their arms windmill toward you in a dance of death; portly 
 chefs roaming a flame-filled kitchen hurl knives and cleavers that slam into walls and columns 
 when they miss their target; maids and serving girls with blood-covered blouses chase you down 
 narrow corridors; grasshoppers spit acid in your face as their heads bob inquisitively - the list 
 goes on and on.  

 Even though the enemies are 2-D sprites (as far as a piker like me can tell) they're rendered excellently, 
 as are the scenery and object graphics. The musical score is also first-rate, building an ominous 
 sense of dread before switching almost seamlessly to a hot jazz motif when you enter areas where 
 Conway and friends were cutting the rug and guzzling bathtub gin those many years ago.  

 It's all a breath of very fresh air, especially after dealing with the pretentious ZPC or the throwback 
 Alien Trilogy. But as you can see from a glance at my scores, Killing Time has a few problems in 
 the gameplay department - the biggest and most glaring being the lack of any type of multiplayer 
 option. Considering that multiplayer gaming is probably the hottest trend in PC entertainment software, 
 such an oversight is at the very least inexplicable; even two or three multiplayer levels would 
 give this game a much longer shelf life.   

 Another problem is the level designs. You're frequently forced to maneuver through cramped rooms 
 and corridors in search of enemies and power-ups, which slows the action to a crawl. While there 
 are a few puzzles to solve here (most based on finding an object to open passages or gain entrance 
 to a new area) , this is first and foremost a first-person shooter, where the real premium is on 
 adrenaline rushes - and you don't get a lot of those when you're struggling just to move through 
 a series of nooks, crannies, and tiny rooms.  

 Fortunately, Killing Time is challenging enough - and fun enough - that the vast majority of gamers 
 will get their money's worth just by finishing the single-player game. It may not push the technological 
 envelope, but I've never heard it said that a game has to use new technology to be enjoyable - 
 and if someone has said that, this one's proof of how wrong they were.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 6, 2006 7:12 am PT
Review:  My copy of Killing Time is the ripped version found on Home of the Underdogs, so Im afraid that 
 my experience with the game didnt include what I understand, based on old reviews of the game, 
 was a series of imbedded FMV cutscenes involving the various ghosts trapped on the Island of Matinicus. 
 The full releases musical score was also missing, but neither omission detracted much from KTs 
 gameplay. Still, the folks at Intrepid Software applied a distinct Haunting of Hill House vibe 
 to KT that -- when coupled with the Clue-like mystery of Tess Conways fate and her mansions Roaring 
 Twenties ambiance  took me back to the low-res good old days of The Colonels Bequest. So, even 
 though all of the shooting, stabbing, and burning of the original KT was present, I didnt get 
 the full effect of the failed 3DO systems ambitious game.
  
  As for the gameplay, Killing Time based its elements of exploration and destruction on the same 
 model found in such early FPS masterpieces as Doom and Strife. Matinicus Isle is positively huge; 
 just as I thought that I had uncovered all there was to see in the East Wing of Conways mansion, 
 I found a series of passages leading into the basement. There are plenty of different spooks and 
 monsters  many of them instantly recognizable as horror movie archetypes, each with a fairly unique 
 mode of attack  in every area, and even though their pathfinding skills are completely lacking 
 in any measure of artificial intelligence, there are plenty of challenges found in the high number 
 of critters that beset the player around every turn.
  
  Speaking of turns, some areas of the game really are hemmed in a bit too much. Twisty, narrow passages 
 traversed at such a low resolution give me headaches and make backtracking through secured areas 
 a dull chore. Other than the prevalence of tight squeezes, however, my only regret with KT is that 
 I overlooked its initial release back in 96. Ripped copies of the game are still available out 
 there in Internetland and, as with most abandonware, the absence of the developer and publisher 
 means that a semi-licit download is the only practical method by which the title might be acquired. 
 Even now, ten years after its fortuitous transfer to the Windows OS, I recommend Killing Time for 
 anyone who still enjoys an episode or two of Duke 3D or Shadow Warrior on occasion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j-miller
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 17, 2004 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Jon's Classic Reviews:
  
  Killing Time is an old, really old ancient shooter that has got to be One of My Favorite Classics 
 of 1996. Here's the scoop.
  
  Gameplay: 9 out of 10
  Simple but accurate except for the not being able to swim thing. If the character wasen't such 
 a water phobe it would have gotten a 10 on gamplay.
  
  Graphics: 6 out of 10
  Almost near the medicore level but barely got a above average score. The weapons and monsters don't 
 really look that intreasting. The demon clowns are like something out of a Steven King movie (yawn.
 
  
  Sound: 8 out of 10
  Great voice acting, terrible monster and gun sounds!
  
  Value: 9 out 10
  Although lacking in more ways than one, it plays out as a solid classic in more 
 ways than one.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 9 out of 10
  A great but not phenomenal old school shooter. But ever since I've played it those many years ago 
 I was surprised. That's because this was the game that got me scared straight out of FPSs as well 
 as fascinated. 
  
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
