-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Kingpin: Life of Crime
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/kingpinlifeofcrime/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 14, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 7.4, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 617 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interplay
Developer: Xatrix
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     Jun 30, 1999
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Whether the prerelease infamy and the embarrassment of disclaimers are a result of the current political 
 climate or conscious hyperbole by the Interplay marketing machine, they tend to overshadow what 
 is actually a decent shooter. 

 Kingpin, Xatrix's encore to its first-person shooter Redneck Rampage, is packaged with the most 
 disclaimers of any game ever released. By the time you've successfully installed it, you will have 
 clicked through an age statement, some dire content warnings, and an impassioned editorial on youth 
 violence and responsible parenting by Xatrix CEO Drew Markham. After all the dramatic claims of 
 impending immorality, you may be disappointed to discover that the hand-wringing is simply over 
 Kingpin's inclusion of an absurd Smurf-esque hooligan dialect in which every second word is profane. 
 That's it. There's plenty of violent content tossed in, but no more than in any other game in the 
 genre. Whether the prerelease infamy and the embarrassment of disclaimers are a result of the current 
 political climate or conscious hyperbole by the Interplay marketing machine, they tend to overshadow 
 what is actually a decent shooter.  

 The developers claim to have been greatly influenced by film. Kingpin's dialogue is inspired by 
 and, as often as not, lifted directly from Pulp Fiction. The mob bigwig you're chasing is a Ving 
 Rhames look- and sound-alike (the credits list Drew Markham himself as having provided the dead-on 
 impersonation) . One enemy, called The Jesus, repeatedly screams all of that character's most obscene 
 lines from The Big Lebowski. The more obvious of these pop culture appropriations occasionally 
 gives Kingpin the feel of an amateur novelty mod. When it comes to plot, though, Kingpin is less 
 Tarantino and more an homage to the side-scrolling beat-'em-ups of the '80s. You're an avenging 
 thick-necked goon traveling through a bleak urban landscape on a quest to kick some big boss tail. 
 Quite frankly, this isn't a bad choice. It's high time someone brought Double Dragon into the world 
 of action shooters.  

 The nonstop cussing rapidly becomes background noise, and you'll immediately become aware of what 
 incredible use the developers have made of the Aging Quake II Engine (through repeated use, "Aging" 
 is now officially part of the immortal codebase's title) . Taking inspiration from the cluttered 
 post-retro styles of City of Lost Children and Brazil, Xatrix has created a stunningly bleak cityscape. 
 Each of the game's six locales is a beautifully depicted metropolitan nightmare - trash-strewn 
 slum apartments, steaming grilles, rattling graffiti-covered trains, monolithic smokestacks, and 
 grimy brick bathed in twilight all add to the dense atmosphere. The programmers have added the 
 obligatory corona, fog, and shadow effects, along with amazing texture work and some convincingly 
 towering architecture, giving Kingpin perhaps the most brilliant look of any virtual gameworld 
 to date.  

 As with its environments, Kingpin boasts some of the most distinctive character design of any available 
 shooter. Although there are only four basic models included - fat man, muscle man, woman, and dog 
 - there is a huge assortment of skins and accessories so that no two figures look exactly alike. 
 The models themselves are a perfect match for the architecture - outsize and thick. As they are 
 damaged, the characters become noticeably mangled. An enemy's blood-streaked face illuminated by 
 the muzzle flash of his tommy gun is a fiercely effective image common in the game.   

 While Kingpin's appearance is beyond reproach, its gameplay is not. Xatrix has attempted to incorporate 
 some adventure elements into the standard first-person shooter play style, but, as often as not, 
 these features are either poorly implemented or simply extraneous. You can communicate with NPCs, 
 and, depending on which key you use to initiate the interaction, your approach can be either passive 
 or aggressive. It's a good idea, but as presented, it has little real effect on the game. Necessary 
 information will be given, seemingly regardless of the attitude picked, and nonessential NPC dialogues 
 are merely an endless series of profanity-laden non sequiturs amounting to absolutely nothing. 
 Meanwhile, friendly characters are provoked by your drawn weapon. To prevent them from becoming 
 combative, there is a command to holster your gun and walk around peacefully. Again, a good idea, 
 but as implemented, ultimately frustrating. By the game's second level, enemies tend to attack 
 on sight, and it's not always clear who's a thug and who's a civilian, often making the game a 
 saving and loading drill as you wander around, guns down, while mapping out which personalities 
 are aggressive.  

 In another nod to adventure games, several levels have a Pawn-O-Matic - a shop selling weapons and 
 armor. Cash can be looted from corpses and spent here. While lots of items are listed, the only 
 products in supply are those currently available in the level, resulting in the whole thing being 
 somewhat pointless except as a way to stock up on health.  

 Cash can also be used to retain up to two bodyguards, and here Kingpin is quite successful. The 
 AI for your companions is exemplary and easily outshines the similar presentation in Half-Life. 
 Your hired muscle will effortlessly follow you through level transitions, up and down ladders, 
 and through cramped tunnels, always making an almost flawless effort to keep up with you. Guards 
 can be commanded to either follow you, stay put, or target a specific object. This simple interface 
 adds a fun aspect to the game - positioning your goons lets you set up tactical retreats and stage 
 bloody ambushes.  

 Half-Life proved that a game designed using the Quake II engine can have seamless, almost unnoticeable 
 level transitions. Valve could start a side business teaching other licensees how to accomplish 
 this feat, because no other developer has managed it, Xatrix included. Kingpin's load times are 
 painful, and the oft-repeated act of quick loading a saved game takes as long as an initial level 
 startup. The game also suffers from the Unreal model of diminishing features. The first level utilizes 
 all the engine and interface elements rather well - the Pawn-O-Matic is useful, character interaction 
 is meaningful, the importance of sneaking is established then employed - but by the second level 
 these things are quickly abandoned and replaced by increasingly indistinguishable firefights. Some 
 miniboss battles are so poorly staged that you may not even be aware that something of importance 
 is occurring. Your final encounter with the crime lord is unembellished and anticlimactic, though 
 by the time you reach it, you won't be expecting much else.  

 Accompanying the gameplay on its descent into repetition is Kingpin's heavily promoted soundtrack 
 by Cypress Hill. Only three tracks are included, all taken directly off the group's 1998 album 
 IV. With just three songs available, with one of them constantly playing, each cut quickly wears 
 out its welcome.  

 Considering Kingpin uses the mature Quake II engine, multiplayer is, as expected, acceptable, with 
 performance not as good as Quake itself but superior to most other available products. Heat. net 
 and Gamespy support are included, as are the standard deathmatch and team-play options. While no 
 co-op mode is present, Xatrix has created a custom team-play mod called Bagman. It's a fun variation 
 on capture the flag, in which safes and piles of money replace flags. Additionally, the game's 
 huge number of enemy skins can be used in deathmatch play, allowing for an unparalleled level of 
 out-of-the-box player customization.  

 The list of annoying weaknesses and underused features is long but doesn't ruin Kingpin. To say 
 it isn't much more than what's come before shouldn't be taken as a complete dismissal; it merely 
 separates the game from a fully realized landmark product like Half-Life. There is fun to be had 
 here, and the game offers a more than acceptable amount of intense gunplay. And for those of you 
 worried about your delicate sensibilities, the game has a low-violence install that bleeps out 
 the swearing - making the dialogue a long string of beeps punctuated by the words "mother," "you," 
 and "yourself."    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: xe-cute
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  The game is not worth playing now simply because the multiplayer side is no longer an active community 
 and with using the Quake 2 engine it was not too long before hackers started to spoil the game.
 
  
  
  But, when it was first out the multiplayer side of this was the best I have ever seen in an FPS 
 game and the community was great.
  
  
  I have very fond memories of this game and only TF2 comes close to it in todays terms.
  
  The 
 mode BAGMAN was the best multiplayer mode I have seen.
  
  In the centre of the map cash spawns and you have to collect it and return it back to the safe 
 at your side of the map.
  
  Also you can go and raid the enemy safe too for bigger money and to strip them of cash.
  
  
 
  The team at the end of the time limit with the most money wins.
  
  They should use this mode in other games alongside deathmatch, capture the flag and such. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cluttrell
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 5, 2007 1:29 am PT
Review:  For starters, don't think that I am a bible-thumping southerner who hates any use of profanity. 
 That said; there is a time to cuss because you're angry, and there is a time to cuss because you 
 want to be cool and fit in with the crowd. This game does the latter.
  If you're a Cypress Hill fan, read no further. The cover of the game boasts about its connection 
 with the band Cypress Hill, and said bands contributions to the games sound track. Rather than 
 play hits like "insane in the brain" we get some cutting-room floor level music that is mostly 
 forgettable.
  Regardless of how people felt about the timing of the games release (just days after the incident 
 at Columbine High School) , it is a mostly offensive game for most people. You can even interact 
 with other characters in the game, telling them where they can go, how they can get there, and 
 how you're going to make that happen. Rather a pointless addition to any good game, but, necessary 
 for this game, because that is solely why it exists. To provide a video game with bad words so 
 the kids will buy it to be cool. The novelty that is the language in this game wears off in about 
 an hour.
  As for the game itself: I found it hard. I spent days upon days just trying to figure out how to 
 get a gun, and make something happen other than cuss someone out, or kill hookers. 
  In summary, if you're looking for a good first person shooter, look elsewhere. If you are a Cypress 
 Hill fan, or a fan of pointless cussing, or a fan of killing hookers, this is the game for you! 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  If I worked at Interplay, I'd have used that time to write thank-you notes to every single person 
 who helped publicize the game by singling it out for its over-the-top carnage and shockingly realistic 
 depictions of violence. Because once you wade through the rivers of blood and the initially disturbing 
 sight of headless or legless corpses lying in bloody pools on dark city streets, youre left with 
 a game that's not much different from the stuff we've been playing for years. This is a prime example 
 of selling the sizzle, not the steak - a good strategy in the case of Kingpin, because what little 
 meat's here is rather bland and unsatisfying.
  
  When I first heard of Kingpin, I envisioned a gory first-person shooter that would rise above the 
 pack by incorporating the character interaction of a good roleplaying or adventure game. After 
 all, it's sub-titled Life of Crime; I assumed that building a criminal empire would be part and 
 parcel of the process. But in Kingpin, 95 percent of the crimes you commit are simply killings 
 - sometimes criminally justifiable, mostly not, but out-and-out killing nonetheless. Some gamers 
 have lauded Xatrix for having the balls to create such a bloodfest - but you'll notice that the 
 game shies away from real kingpin activities like racketeering, drugs, prostitution, and other 
 big-time moneymakers in the criminal world. It's a lot easier to pad down a trail someone else 
 has created, and that's basically all Xatrix has done with Kingpin. Sure, there are some puzzles 
 tossed into the mix, but most involve finding a key or figuring out which switch needs to be thrown 
 - in short, busywork.
  
  You begin your life of crime as an anonymous thug lying bruised and bleeding in an alley, the victim 
 of a punishment beating for an unspecified affront. Armed with nothing but a lead pipe, you hit 
 the streets in search of revenge - and soon learn that you're not as tough as you might think. 
 Even on lower difficulty settings, sneaking up behind someone and braining them with a steel pipe 
 doesn't seem to give you much of an advantage because everyone turns and hits you a split-second 
 after your blow has landed. It's the first sneaking suspicion you'll get that things in Kingpin 
 aren't quite as gritty and realistic as the gory advertisements have made the game out to be.
 
  
  You might not notice this for a while, though, thanks to the truly inspired graphics lavished on 
 the buildings and streets. Although you'll need a kingpin of a system to run the game at resolutions 
 of 800x600 or higher, you'll be rewarded with what are arguably the most convincing cityscapes 
 ever created: steam snakes lazily from manhole covers, fires crackle and burn in barrels, and the 
 proportions of the buildings are uncannily realistic. These might be some mean streets, but they're 
 still a marvel to behold - and they'd better be, since Kingpin's numerous and lengthy loading pauses 
 make immersion difficult even on a super-fast system.
  
  Too bad the people that inhabit the world of Kingpin aren't nearly as convincing. This is a world 
 of automatons: unless a character has a key piece of information, expect to hear him or her spout 
 the same generic (and profanity-laced) lines as the last robot you talked to. (There's an option 
 to install a version without the obscenities, but it also robs you of all the blood - one of the 
 few impressive things in the game.) The box copy claims you can talk cool or smack to the people 
 you meet, but in practice, cool winds up being So what's all the commotion? or So what's up?, while 
 smack is merely a line or three inspired by Pulp Fiction, Reservoir Dogs, or Menace 2 Society. 
 Want a good laugh? Try talking smack to the guy who thanks you for returning his watch to him (yes, 
 you had to kill someone to get it) . After he gushes, Oh jeez, thanks a lot, you're really Jake 
 for returning my watch in a broad New Jersey Accent, hit him with a line like I will #$%@ bury 
 you! or You #$*@ piece of ?*&amp;@ - and listen in amazement as he continues to crawl at your feet 
 in thanks for returning his timepiece!
  
  Although you could just as easily finish the game without any help, you're given the opportunity 
 to hire gang members as you acquire more cash - but it's just another good idea that's been poorly 
 implemented. Want them to take the point in case you run into trouble? Tough - unless you've spotted 
 an enemy, they always trail behind you. And talk about dumb: I had two hoods with me as I was about 
 to call an elevator; one was crushed as he stood underneath it, and the other had his head sheared 
 off as we ascended because he was too close to the railing! Worst of all is that while you can 
 order them to attack targets or perform a specific task, you can't get these goons to grab a medikit 
 and heal themselves.
  
  There's no denying that the damage effects - i. e., the blood and gore - are impressive: you'll 
 see heads blown off, legs shredded from torsos, geysers of the crimson stuff, and even bloody footprints 
 in the sidewalk as an intended victim flees your wrath. But thanks to stupid weapon effects - grenades 
 with practically no blast radius, a flamethrower that won't work if someone's too close, a heavy 
 machine-gun that only burps bullets - and the flaky AI routines, you quickly tire of the gore and 
 instead start fixating on all the stupid, unbelievable things happening in the game.
  
  Just take a read over these oddities: a dead guy standing bolt upright on one leg; enemies firing 
 non-stop shotgun blasts for three minutes at an empty spot on the sidewalk; enemies running in 
 circles; enemies running back and forth like ducks in a shooting gallery; enemies literally flying 
 through the air as they climb ladders; dollar bills still intact after you've burned the guy carrying 
 them to a crisp; and enemies that can see and sometimes fire on you when you're completely out 
 of sight. Worst of all is the moment when, about halfway through the game, you pick up a rocket 
 launcher and realize that this is basically Quake Goes to Town with some wind-up dolls thrown in 
 for good measure. If you're not convinced, just check out the endgame, where you fight the Kingpin 
 and his girlfriend - and learn that she's completely, totally invulnerable to weapons fire! Talk 
 about a boss, eh?
  
  A great multiplayer mode could have elevated Kingpin's final rating, but my results with Internet 
 play ranged from merely average to abysmal. The game played horribly in every session I tried on 
 SegaSoft's HEAT network, probably because the service didn't support the latest patch to improve 
 online performance. Things were much better with the patched version using GameSpy to find dedicated 
 Kingpin servers, but even on the lowest-latency servers I encountered a ton of hiccups and pauses 
 in the animation - one second you're looking at the ground, the next you're staring at the ceiling 
 as your character gets shredded by machine-gun fire. Sloppy network coding? You're soaking in it!
 
  
  So now you know the score, and the only question that remains to be answered is who'll make the 
 most fuss about Kingpin - conservatives who think computer games lead to real-life violence, or 
 gamers who've shelled out bucks for a game that winds up being a one-trick pony? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nazzdreg
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 6, 2007 5:52 pm PT
Review:  I really liked the game. Shooters are always fun. I was amazed at the gameplay. Granted when it 
 came out it was top notch. Now it's kinda cartoony compared to what is out now. But I was happy 
 with the overall outcome. Yes there is a lot of swearing. It kinda makes the game in my opinion. 
 Nothing like fragging someone while they call you a Mother &amp;*&amp;%. makes you feel warm and 
 fuzzy inside. The only thing I wish they had done was make the mouths actually move. it is just 
 a bad mushmouth feel, but that really does not distract from the gameplay at all. Just adds a little 
 more neatness. Yes the load times are a bit lame and slow, but hey, no biggie there for me. The 
 levels were all wonderfully done, with great ambient noises abundant throughout. If you like shooters, 
 and like the Cypress Hill soundtrack this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sangman
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 3, 2007 7:23 am PT
Review:  Kingpin is but a fairly mediocre shooter. Things are quite fun at first, where you're stranded 
 with low health, without a decent weapon, and everyone you encounter will be stronger than you 
 - so you actually have to think about how you are going to approach your objective.
  
  However once you acquire some decent weapons, the game loses this approach and turns into a shooting 
 galore. You'll find a thug wanting to kill you at almost every turn, which gets a bit tiring after 
 a while. Sometimes you wish you could do something else than shoot all those thugs.
  
  A problem in this game is difficulty. For a newbie - like myself - at Kingpin, I found the first 
 level to be very hard on just the Medium skill, so I played it through on Novice. However, then 
 the rest of the game became too easy. The final bossfight was a breeze. Still, the game does have 
 a few fun innovations, such as being able to recruit thugs (which are actually a big help, contrary 
 to many other shooters where they just get in the way) and the ability to rob (dead) people of 
 their money, to buy things at your nearest Pawn-O-Matic.
  
  All in all, this game is not too bad - The gameplay is nothing new, but it's short enough to not 
 make it overly tiresome. When the feeling What, that's all there is? has gone away, you'll realize 
 it's still a fun action-packed game. If you can get it for less than a buck don't hesitate to try 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 8, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  I remember watching The Warriors as a kid and wondering if such nasty, gritty, and tumultuous places 
 like the New York City streets portrayed in the gang war flick actually exist. Since then, I learned 
 that -- with the exception of the silly thematic costumes worn by the movies different factions 
  the dark and decaying dystopia presented in the film was very close to a number of not-nice 
 locations in nearly every major city. In my hometown of Atlanta, one doesnt have to wander far 
 from the bright lights and chummy safety of Centennial Park to find a place where hope doesnt 
 exist, the only stable jobs belong to gang members and morticians, and a suburban bloke such as 
 myself would be derided as a peckerwood by the local populace at best and eaten alive at worst. 
 Kingpin takes place in a world where rotting environmental and social conditions have crept into 
 every last corner of an entire city, creating a true concrete jungle run by warlords and inhabited 
 by hateful, diseased street gladiators. As awful and depressing as such a setup might sound, Radio 
 City is actually a wonderful place for any FPS fan interested in heating up his gun barrel to reside.
 
  
  Kingpin is a dirty, dirty game, and Im not just referring to the strong language about which the 
 developers made such a cautious fuss in their numerous content warnings. Dirt and sludge covers 
 every available surface, both indoors and out. Piles of trash and broken chunks of stone line the 
 avenues. Every body of water  from puddles to rivers  looks like a polluted mixture of urine, 
 gore, and gasoline. Again, even though it might seem that Im describing Hell on earth, the amount 
 of detail that Xatrix poured into Radio City by way of the timeworn Quake 2 engine was delightfully 
 luscious. The games audio is also magnificent: every footstep crackles with grit and shattered 
 glass, gunfire is loud and bold, bodies collapse with a meaty thud, the general clanks, rattles, 
 and buzzes of a city environment are all around, in full stereo, at almost all times. Kingpins 
 voice acting is okay: although those upstanding lads from Cypress Hill were an excellent choice 
 for most of the games dialogue, the positive/negative exchanges in which the player can engage 
 nearly everyone he meets were unnecessary and almost always moronically disjointed.
  
  The enemy AI in Kingpin is remarkable even by todays standards. While the computer-controlled 
 friendlies in other games that were released at around the same time as Kingpin required plenty 
 of babysitting  moving slowly to keep the trailing squadmates constantly in sight, taking care 
 not to allow them to trap me in a dead end, or watching in horror as they wandered straight off 
 of a cliff  Radio Citys hired thugs remained tight on my heels through every twist, turn, and 
 crumbling stairwell. The only exception I noticed involved a patch of knee-deep water toward the 
 end of the game; my pals completely forgot I existed as soon as my feet were submerged, but jumping 
 in place periodically was enough to keep them on the trail. Unfortunately, that same brainy AI 
 leads to some fairly serious problems in Kingpins combat mechanics. The perfection evident in 
 a fellow thugs ability to see his way through a gauntlet of obstacles also allows him to hit any 
 target at any distance with little to no reaction time; if a direct line of sight exists between 
 the player and a bad guy with a Tommy gun, then bullets are flying and health scores are dropping. 
 Run and hide around a corner, and any enemies who follow will already have a perfect bead on the 
 player when they spring into view. I never realized prior to Kingpin that programmers must bestow 
 a smidgen of imperfection to their creations to include a more realistic reaction time from surprised 
 goons, or a slight degradation in precision due to distance or recoil. Crossing certain boroughs 
 without the benefit of some hired hands  who were blessed with the same eagle-eyed exactitude 
 as Blancos boyz  became an overly-cautious slog that required more luck than skill (and plenty 
 of flamethrower fuel, since no one shoots back when theyre flailing in agony) .
  
  Aside from its oddly infallible attackers and pointless conversation feature, Kingpin is an incredibly 
 entertaining title. Even though most of Radio Citys hubs are cleared with little more than assassination 
 assignments or key hunts (using severed heads and car batteries as a fitting replacement for more 
 traditional tokens of passage) , each new area feels like high adventure through an alien world. 
 The industrial slums and seedy back alleys of Kingpin do exist in a portion of nearly every city 
 in America, but not to such a pervasive extent. Wandering into the less-civil sections of town 
  willingly, with eyes wide open, and not while lost due to some bad directions to the stadium, 
 to use a personal example  can be every bit as exciting as a trip to the surface of Na Pali or 
 the bunkers of Area 51. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomhesoka55
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 23, 2006 9:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games I have ever played..
  
  Now if I speak about the gameplay, the game play is interesting that most of game levels have common 
 place (the par) but they differ in other thing like objectives and level design, In the game you 
 can see variety in places, theirs train industry and the best things . Hoods. The enemies are 
 very violence and they have no mercy and they are not fool they really have great AI and aiming 
 that you feel they are real streets gangs, so you will not get bored from the game before 4-6 continuous 
 hours of playing.
  
  The graphics of the game no one can speak about it because it give great graphics that I played 
 the game in 2001 and see a great game details and real colors in front of my eyes, that was my 
 feel in 2001 how people feel in 1999????!!!.
  The weapons style and its shape in your hand are amazing especially the shotgun that I consider 
 one of the best shotguns I have ever seen in games! The game sounds are great despite the indecent 
 words that you hear from enemies.
  
  So the last thing I can say about the game is that interplay give people game before its generation. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tinkertown
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 5, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  For its release date (1999) the game was extremely graphic. I got the game when i was quite young 
 though wasnt really offended by it. After looking at other people reviews i thought everyone would 
 be saying how crap this game is. The game was dissapointing though fun in many ways. The game has 
 a nack for being a bit of a ba****d at time though you manage to get through it. Though the beginning 
 of the game is probably the toughest part as you only have an iron bar and a couple of clips for 
 your pistol. Although its an all out action shooter you have to use your bullets wisely. Crappy 
 leg shots would get you in trouble as the opposing gang members are tough when it comes to a fire 
 fight. The game was very good for its time and had great multiplayer. I'm not sure if anyone plays 
 it anymore. I had completed several time with and withought cheats though i have to say its one 
 of the most brutal games i have played.
  More violent than GTA!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fistfull_of_me
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 17, 2006 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Kingpin: Life of Crime puts you in the shoes of a street thug who has the had the living crap beaten 
 out of him. You pick up a lead pipe and from there you get revenge and claw you way to the top.
 
  
  The graphics are pretty good, you can see a lot of time and effort went into this game. The sound 
 is pretty good too. However, i don't know why the had to say the 'F' word so many times, that didn't 
 make it any better. But anyway, this game takes a while to get used to because if you have you 
 weapon out at any point and another thug sees you, he or she will come over beat you up. you have 
 no chance really, they will chase you into a bigger gang of thugs with guns, and you subsequently 
 die.
  
  If your into GTA style games, but with a sort of darker feel to them, then give this game a go, 
 you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrosion85
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 10, 2006 1:47 am PT
Review:  Well what can you say about kingpin? For the time it had unbelievable graphics even if the weapons 
 look a bit funny. Nevertheless I liked the story from the first minute onwards. You start up in 
 a back alley all beat up and you only seek revenge! It is funny that you can talk to a lot of people 
 either friendly or you can insult them - however often with some consequences. Many people just 
 bought the game due to the explicit content, if you don't like violence and adult language, I wouldn't 
 get the game :) 
  The story has quite a lot of parallels with dialogues from the film "Pulp Fiction" (remember that 
 big bad black man?) . As you fight your way through the ghetto your ennemies will become more and 
 more nervous and the missions get even better. 
  
  So if you are looking for a violent FPS where you can swear at people on the way, but especially 
 when you have a bad day this game can cheer you right up. Unfortunately the game was and still 
 is banned in a lot of countries, due to a let me say unsuitable content for children... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colonel_Snake
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 8, 2006 4:14 am PT
Review:  This old classic game is excellent. Not only the main game was good but the online multiplayer 
 mode was extremly great and it is still fun to play from time to time. The graphics were not great 
 at that time but don't let that stop you from playing it, it also contains funny sound files and 
 cutscenes. As soon as you start playing "Gangbang" mode (which is the multiplayer mode) your game 
 play experience on the game will change. You can still get this great classic from the shops for 
 a low price of 4.99.
  
  Overall this game is a true classic and people still play it all the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burnoutx1985
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2005 2:02 pm PT
Review:  this games was awesome back in the day. Now a days it is still pretty fun. Its like a dream come 
 true. YOu get to hire people to join your elite or soon to be elite street gang. This game is deff 
 for the mature auidences only. There is alot of cussing, gore, drugs and of course your a mean dude 
 hiring other people to help kill other gangs for you. I really loved this game when it came out 
 and I still do love to play it every now and then. It has an online mode where you can have deathmatch 
 etc against other real world players. This game is a must have for any fps lover. ITs really affordable 
 now, has free online play, and tons of downloadable content along with tons of players from around 
 the world and best yet its system requirements are really low and the game actually looks really 
 good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 30, 2005 8:24 pm PT
Review:  This FPS was pretty good, if you look past some of its minor faults. The storyline is nice, you're 
 someone who has been pushed around and you're going to take out the Kingpin and perhaps be one 
 yourself. You can have a max of 2 lackeys in your crew to fight for you. You get money by finding 
 them off of the thugs you kill. Talk to NPC and they'll talk back, offering information or anything 
 else you'll need. You have to use tact to get by some areas and study the behaviors of patrols 
 to decide when to do what. You'll have access to a respectable arsenal and upgrades. If you want 
 you can kill NPCs. There are puzzels and mini missions you'll have to complete before going on 
 to the next area. The downsides are that the graphics aren't spectacular, but ever since Half-Life 
 came out people have been comparing FPS to that and it isn't necessary. This game delivers good 
 stuff and you'll have fun while doing it. You may notice a few bugs, but a patch should solve whatever 
 problem you're having... just a few shortcomings but like I said, you'll enjoy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stu_ponk
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 16, 2005 8:24 am PT
Review:  In its day this game was 'average' with an added twist of humor and grit. As you see from the GS 
 review, the game engine used is off Quake II.
  
  GAMEPLAY - is obviously fairly simple. Easy to change weapon etc. Moving within your environment 
 is ok but nothing special, but atleast it is slick and smooth. Getting your thugs to do what you 
 want can be anoying at times.
  
  I would say the hardest part of the game for me was the start. As soon as I had a gun in my hand 
 I was away with ease. The game could get harder when your grunts went in gun-ho, or the enemy would 
 get narked; but the AI was so poor that you could easily reload your saved game and take them out. 
 
  
  You can try a covert approach, which often helps you slip by. Its just a nice added idea that needs 
 a lot of improving.
  
  GRAPHICS - were dirty which added to the feel. They weren't silky smooth though and clipping does 
 occur. The other players appear flat (2D) like little cardboard cut outs.
  
  SOUND - this game has great little touches. Yes they all swear like troopers and grumble groan. 
 It certainly got my pulse racing at times when they run after you calling for your blood.
  
  IN SUMMARY this game is a bargain. I bought it at the time for 5 ; as most PC games are cheap. 
 This game is like a 1st person version of Manhunt without the gore hand to hand mutilation - instead 
 its quite tame. The game story is okay and levels are long enough - had it been any longer i would 
 have got bored and tossed it out. Buy it and ply it if you're bored, but dont expect anything special. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djarken
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2005 11:21 am PT
Review:  i first played Kingpin last year when i bought it on sold outs cheap label, i was playin it on 
 my old dell pc and it didnt work so well. i bought a new pc and the bloody thing wouldnt work at 
 all, but ive put a new graphics card in, as the other was an internal one which didnt support OPENGL. 
 hey presto!! im back playin again as i didnt complete it before and ive also got Final Crime to 
 play as well. id recommend this game to anyone as it is total class and its on the cheap label 
 now and plays as good as any new game ive played but with the graphics abit dated. looking forward 
 to the second one when its released!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: step2ice
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 10, 2005 9:42 am PT
Review:  By gamers for gamers was the slogan Xatrix used back in the days. And you really could feel that 
 in their games. Unlike most of the newer "fast food" shooters this one was well designed and delivered 
 a custom setting very well.
  It's one of those games from a era where games had really unique settings and heros.
  Kingpin 
 had given me a real flash in the year 1999. While I really enjoyed the single player part, although 
 it wasn't really what the devs promised, the more played part was the multiplayer for me. I spent 
 hundreds of hours in the great "bagman match mode". A mode where you had two teams fighting for 
 cash which appeared in the middle of the map. You had to collect it and bring it to the safe in 
 your teams headquarter. Man those was one if not the best multiplayer back in the days.
  That plus the urban gangster setting which was perfectly covered by instrumental music from Cypress 
 Hill had keept me playing for a really long time.
  I remember clans like Spinnenkrieger or [VL] all with their custom skins, man this was great multiplayer.
 
  But back to the singleplayer part.
  Kingpin was meant to be played with the aspect that you could hire gang members who were fighting 
 for you. Basicly the problem was that this was only working in the first three levels where ammo 
 and cash was short coming.
  Later you just had so much ammo and better guns that you were pretty stronger on yourself instead 
 of having some more thugs around which get shot pretty easily by the growing strength of the enemys.
 
  So it was more of a typical FPS later one and lost the idea and fun of the gang gameplay.
  The better part were the impressive graphics and sound plus the level design with bars and backalleys 
 filled with thugs and let's say girls.
  
  Kingpin is a alltime favourite and one of my most played games. It won't be so interesting to play 
 it today but back in those days where it was released it was one of the best shooters around.
 
  But it's still a game worth playing even today.
  [BTW. I rated the graphics in link tho the release date in 1999)
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
