-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: King's Bounty: The Legend
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/kingsbountythelegend/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Solid gameplay based on a traditional tactical RPG formula.
 Good turn-based tactical depth.
 Strong RPG flavor and storyline.
 Colorful graphics evocative of old-time role-playing.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Not much in the way of innovation.
 No multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  4, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.3, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 1,015 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Katauri
Genre: Fantasy Turn-Based...
Date:     Sep 23, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
King's Bounty is a great modern rendition of an old-fashioned formula. 

  One thing you can say for King's Bounty: The Legend is that it fares a lot better than most resurrections 
 of old games. While these digitalized archaeological digs generally reveal that you wouldn't want 
 to go home again even if you could (Defender of the Crown, anyone?) , the revival of New World Computing's 
 fondly remembered role-playing/strategy hybrid is a vast improvement upon its 1990 predecessor. 
 While Kings Bounty may not be the most revolutionary game of 2008, its refined gameplay makes 
 it a treasure worth hoarding.  

  Actually, about the only fair negative comment you could make about King's Bounty is that there 
 isn't really anything new here. Just about everything feels like a rip-off of Heroes of Might and 
 Magic. As with that long-lived Ubisoft franchise, the core of this game is all about taking on 
 the role of a hero in a solo campaign (there is no multiplayer option) and guiding parties of mercenaries 
 across a real-time map to fight turn-based battles on hex grids. A strong RPG flavor is granted 
 through character creation, which allows you to choose from warrior, paladin, and mage classes 
 and then trick out your avatar with skills, artifacts, weapons, armor, spells, and assorted other 
 Gygaxian accoutrements. You then explore the huge medieval fantasy world of Darion in the service 
 of King Mark the Wise, plying the trade of a treasure hunter. A story slowly develops regarding 
 the king's older brother and the standard evil threat to the continued existence of, well, everything, 
 although you don't have to pay much attention to it. Essentially, you just wander around doing 
 good deeds, guiding an icon of your hero through the usual D&amp; D-inspired landscape to slay monsters, 
 loot treasure, scoop up skill runes, mana crystals, and leadership banners, and solve quests handed 
 out by your king and various passersby.  

           Throwing the book -- er, spellbook -- is just one way to get rid of a pesky undead enemy. 

  Despite that description, this isn't a hack-and-slasher. Instead of whaling on monsters with a 
 small party of adventurers as in the typical RPG, you wage tactical battles with veritable armies 
 of troops on turn-based battlefields. Mages, priests, knights, archers, monsters, and the like 
 are hired at special buildings such as the king's castle for use as shock troops in your hero's 
 party. You start off with a paltry handful of these goons, but soon wind up at the head of a tremendous 
 force of killer Renaissance fair refugees. Stuff enough gold into your pantaloons and increase 
 your hero's leadership skill as you increase in level and you'll be able to afford the services 
 of loads of hirelings. The scale of battles always remains manageable, however, as each unit type 
 is depicted by just a single character model on the battlefield no matter how many of those units 
 you actually command. This keeps the focus on pure tactics and allows you to whip through battles 
 lickety-split, while still letting you make use of each unit's special abilities. As just about 
 every unit comes with some sort of skill involving spells or bonus attacks, cutting to the chase 
 without dealing with hordes of units is vital to keeping the game straightforward and simple.  
 

  This should sound familiar if you have any experience playing a tactical RPG. The only real difference 
 between King's Bounty and Heroes of Might and Magic or Disciples is a greater emphasis on role-playing. 
 Story is brought to the fore here in a much more overt way, thanks to a sarcastic sense of humor 
 and a ton of quests to be solved. True, most of these quests have been scooped out of the big bag 
 of RPG cliches (find stolen property, remove a curse, kill the big bad whatever that's plaguing 
 our village, and so on) . But many come with multiple parts that force you to venture all over the 
 map to solve them, along with a great deal of personality conveyed through idiosyncratic characters 
 and a lot of text. You can't just skip around like you're filling in blanks; do so and you're liable 
 to get caught not paying attention, as with the quest where you're given the words to a spell solving 
 a peasant's zombie problem and then have to pick the actual phrase out in a multiple choice menu 
 when casting the spell a little later. So even though these various tasks might not break any new 
 ground, completing them is more involving than the map-clearing busywork that dominates the usual 
 tactical RPG.  

  Difficulty is also scaled well. Starting off on easy knocks down monster hit points to something 
 quite manageable, and cranks up the amount of gold awarded so that you never seem to run out of 
 the coin needed to hire reinforcements. It's gratifying to see newbies getting let in on the action 
 like this; too many games of this ilk seem to want to punish players, or at least present such 
 a grueling level of difficulty that only veterans of the genre need apply. With that said, moving 
 to normal difficulty is one heck of a leap. Enemy hit points take a huge jump and your gold gets 
 slashed to practically nothing, turning what was a pretty fast-moving game into what can be a grueling 
 slog through battles of attrition.  

           King's Bounty isn't the most modern-looking game out there, although you can't quibble 
 with its creepy, bombastic spell effects.      

  Visual design is impressive, if not cutting-edge. The game is a couple of years out of date, although 
 the use of bright color and loads of details on maps means that everything still looks great in 
 a Disney kind of way. Areas are intricately drawn and laid out in such a way as to increase the 
 fantasy atmosphere. Every nook and cranny is filled with something D&amp; D-ish, from urns and skulls 
 in catacomb corners to webs and giant mushrooms in forest clearings. Spell effects are spooky and 
 imaginative, too. Magic is generally underlined with special effects like clouds of brimstone, 
 puffs of green gas, and even leering skull faces. All of these added details sometimes gets in 
 the way of your simply playing the game, though. Pathways through maps are very twisty-turny and 
 often obscured with foliage or other terrain obstacles. It can be tough to locate a way forward 
 without rotating the map or zooming in. Failing to at least pan the camera around before galloping 
 into an S-curve can also see you trot right into a killer encounter with powerhouse monsters hidden 
 just out of sight. Audio, on the other hand, is similarly secreted away. The score is a generic 
 triumphal blast that repeats so often during tactical engagements you will almost immediately tune 
 it out, while battle sounds are tinny and there is virtually no voice acting in the game.  

  Forget about looking at King's Bounty: The Legend as a sequel to an oldie-but-goodie and take 
 it on its own merits. Anyone with the nostalgia gene who played the original might get a special 
 thrill out of this sequel coming along almost 20 years later, but you don't need a connection to 
 this classic to enjoy this impressive take on the traditional tactical RPG.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (52 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: saintivan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 4, 2009 8:21 am PT
Review:  This game only registered as a brief blip on Gamespot, but any fan of this style of gameplay is 
 in for a treat. Quite simply, the formula works: a large world to explore with ever more challenging 
 enemies to beat requiring ever more experience, spells, levels, etc. This game actually has battles 
 you will not be able to win at first because you are not powerful enough yet. This adds incentive, 
 as any time you get your ass kicked you will want revenge. The desire to explore an interesting 
 new world is innate, and thus addictive. There are certain things that must be accomplished before 
 being allowed to proceed to the next area, thus the incentive is there to do so. 
  
  Graphics: Not ground-breaking, but not bad either. Colorful and generally pleasing.
  Sound effects: 
 These are surprisingly good considering that...
  Sountrack: Sucks! You will have their endlessly repetitive and uninspiring tracks muted or at super 
 low volume in no time.
  Gameplay: Not exactly intuitive, but can be picked up quickly. No real instructions to speak of, 
 so you will have to figure some things out on your own, which isn't necessarily a bad thing.
  Difficulty: Well paced in terms of enemies. Good mixture of might and magic.
  Value: Definitely 
 worth the money. This is a big game, and defeating all the enemies you will need to level up and 
 advance will take a long time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: diabloxxxx
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2009 6:38 am PT
Review:  If you open your eyes later King's Bounty: The Legend is the tribute to ancestors Katauri Interactive 
 series Heroes of Might and Magic. What is the 'surface' King's Bounty: The Legend is one of Magic 
 Might and Magic with few heroes, with more RPG, and administered by zero fortress player. Ce important 
 game is not in any event a copy pale and simplified Homme how you think after you see a screenshot 
 or doua. But to revenim. In principle hero wander a huge map in real time, where feruite and solve 
 numerous quests, recruiting armies, and after the usual good fairy tales, save primejdie. No Lord 
 in everything pink insa. Principala my dissatisfaction is regaming scazuta. O attempt to prolong 
 life game distribution was random treasures, artefactelor and monsters. Daca will not hurry and 
 tasting as you should regret the money ' invest ' 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghost2138
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2009 5:53 am PT
Review:  "King's Bounty" is definitely worthy of the mantle of its predecessor - assuming you can get over 
 its quirks.
  
  Pros: a huge world to explore; tons of interesting creatures to meet and grind into bone-dust; 
 challenging campaign
  Cons: a complete absence of multiplayer; story vacillates between serious and comical without any 
 warning; combat-heavy style of play may not be for everyone.
  
  Generally, I feel about game remakes about the same way I feel about Zooey Deschanel: cute, but, 
 in the greater scheme of things, largely unnecessary. Game remakes have a tendency to be either 
 dull (as was the case with "Tomb Raider Anniversary") , or grating (as was the case with the XBox 
 remake of "Conker's Bad Fur Day.") Occasionally, as many game critics have seen from the experience 
 in intellectual self-mutilation that was "Dune 2000," they can be both. Yet something has obviously 
 been added to the water to make all that change, if the small-time Russian developer 1C could have 
 a go at the old stand-by Commodore 64 classic "King's Bounty," and -- shocker! -- actually do a 
 very good job with it. Not only pleasantly surprising in its evocation of nostalgia, but also curiously 
 deep and involved on the strategic level, this remake stands on its own just as well as it does 
 in the shadow of its predecessor.
  
  To set the record straight on "King's Bounty"'s story, it only tangentially relates to its predecessor's 
 plot. In the original, the hero was betasked by the King with orders to recover pieces of a secret 
 map. The map was divided among a number of villains populating the land in castles. Why the map 
 was split between these enemies, or why the King would even need it was never explained, but this 
 did not put a dent into the hours of entertainment one could reasonably derive from the game proper. 
 Same holds true for the remake, as its story is barely more substantial than that of a music video 
 from the eighties: the player, as in the original, is tasked with a variety of missions by the 
 King. Along with these quests, the player traverses the countryside and takes on a variety of other 
 exploits, some involving heroic deeds and destruction of undead plagues, others mundane and trivial, 
 usually involving obtaining pigments for a painter. To be fair, the hero in question is a bit of 
 a tool, as not even being a level-56 badass with an army of armored thugs in tow will allow him 
 to simply beat the painter's head in and loot his corpse in lieu of an appropriate answer to such 
 a request.
  
  The absence of any kind of moral compass a la "Fable" is disappointing, but it does free up the 
 board for some excellent straight-up questing, looting, and levelling. This is where the gameplay 
 that accompanies this story (or lack thereof) kicks in, and it is the real meat and potatoes of 
 this title. The majority of the player's time will be spent travelling the overworld map which, 
 much like the one in "Heroes of Might and Magic," is populated by all manner of monsters, treasure, 
 and quests. During his travels, the player will collect two resources: gold, which allows for recruitment 
 of an army; and leadership, which, on the most basic level, works as a squad cap for the number 
 of units one may have in a stack. As the player's level increases, so do the abilities of the player, 
 and, ultimately, the possibility of recruiting larger armies and tackling larger stacks of enemies. 
 Profound this isn't, but don't let it be said that it won't eat up hours of your time as you struggle 
 to take down just that last horde of beholders before you head off to bed at 4 A. M.
  
  In addition to making the gameplay as close as they could to virtual crack cocaine without breaking 
 the law, Studio 1C also managed to make the game visually appealing and extremely easy on the eyes. 
 Most of the statistics surrounding your character have been limited to only the barest essentials, 
 and all the visuals are presented in a colorful, pretty fashion that almost belies the fact that, 
 at its heart, this is a game about mass goblin genocide. The variety of monsters available to the 
 player for recruitment is also impressive, and most of them have an appearance and personality 
 that are unique to them, making them extremely appealing. The battle animations are a bit stiff 
 and stilted, however, making the humanoid characters appear less like humans and more like action 
 figures; the less conventional critters, such as beholders and spiders, are less affected by this 
 problem. Generally, though, the visual aspect of the game, though perhaps lacking the polish of 
 "Heroes of Might and Magic," is one of the most impressive aspects of the game, literally sucking 
 you in with its aesthetics and presentation.
  
  The nicest thing one can say about the sound design is that it is unobtrusive. While there is nothing 
 truly grating about it, there's also nothing even remotely interesting or remarkable that is brought 
 to the table by the game's audio presentation. Shrewdly eschewing any kind of voice-overs or voice-acting 
 (whether this was done to cut back on costs, cut down on cheesiness, or simply to avoid extra work 
 is, quite frankly, irrelevant, because what is there actually works) the game provides a traditional-fare 
 fantasy soundtrack and ambient sounds. Simplicity is the word of the day where sound is concerned, 
 as precious little of it will register on the player's audio radar, and turning the sound off will 
 produce just as mollifying effect as keeping it on.
  
  The problem spot that "King's Bounty" comes up against is a rather steep difficulty curve. As large 
 chunks of the world become available, the player is given ample freedom to travel around and attempt 
 to take on stacks of freely-roaming beasts. The problem with this mechanic is that unless the player 
 obtains the "Scouting" skill early on, which allows for the examination of a stack, he will be 
 completely in the dark regarding the enemy's strength relative to that of the player's army. The 
 game doesn't make any concessions for carelessness, either, as even the first area is peopled by 
 some pretty tough opponents, and it becomes exceptionally easy to fall prey to a stack of fairies 
 early on in the game. The game does not penalize the player for losing battles, save for the fact 
 that after each defeat, the player must re-recruit his army, and considering most creature dwellings 
 have only a limited number of each unit available for recruitment, this turns the game from one 
 of strategic risk and reward into a process of saving before each battle and reloading the game 
 if the casualties among the player's ranks mount too high. It's not game-killing, but it breaks 
 up the pace of the game, and the title suffers for it.
  
  "King's Bounty" is neither spectacularly creative nor original, but it performs well precisely 
 because it is neither of those things. Sticking as closely to the formula established by its predecessors 
 as possible, it negotiates between its simple nature and accessibility with the greatest of ease. 
 Though I frequently harp on games for lacking originality, this is one of those cases where it 
 is acceptable to not stray too far from the beaten path. "King's Bounty" is a title that's easy 
 to recommend for fans of the turn-based strategy genre, particularly if they are also fans of "Heroes 
 of Might and Magic" and, for some obscure reason, still retain fond memories of the original "King's 
 Bounty" on the C64.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTPAHHIK
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2009 1:26 am PT
Review:  Copycat of Heroes of Might and Magic, but without turn based element on adventure map. Game lets 
 you roam free around the map and do what you want. Battles; however, are turn-based. 
  King's Bounty is very interesting and engaging game with beautiful graphics and great sound. Developer 
 put a lot of effort to make sure game is balanced and it shows. 
  Just like in Heroes you get to roam around and discover things to do - mostly completing different 
 quests that are assigned to you by NPCs that you meet along the way. You do not have to fight with 
 other, computer controlled players, as you did in Heroes. Your main object is to progress from 
 one main quest to the other with an option to complete side quests. 
  Overall very good impressions and highly recommended. 
  ===================================================
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellScream1359
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2009 3:56 am PT
Review:  The True Meaning Of Turn Base Strategy Out There ... You Must Believe Me On This ... Your Eyes 
 Never Have Been So ...
  
  By the way ... You know ... I can and i must describe my feelings on this cool and rare game ... 
 I see that the characters of this game have own skills and rare ones too ... Everything balanced 
 ... You could like to have great Magician with army of undead or demons or have a noble army of 
 elves Dwarf or even Orc The One Thing I say ... I come to love this game very soon ... I love to 
 play it more and more cause this game have a best landscape engine i see ... Mean you must forget 
 this things after WarCraft3 Masterpiece ... Be cool and play it with patient ... And one thing 
 ... You can feel the power of your game play every time in this game ... I can say , after finishing 
 this game you must feel bore to not having another game like this just as i say ... See ya ... 
 Gilgamesh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thinkfootball
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2009 6:27 am PT
Review:  Something the reviewer Mike below doesn't get is this game is LOVED by the vast majority of its 
 target audience, a polished, complete classic. Who is that audience? Turn-based gamers Mike, not 
 ultra-twitch, ADD gamers like you! Let's put it this way -- he has one other review, GoW, and he 
 rates it a 10 of 10. Nuff' said.
  
  This game is an instant-classic that's well-done, balanced, polished, and just an amazing fun game. 
 It is NOT for people who can't sit still for more than 2 seconds and who therefore would hate a 
 turn-based game (even though the action at the strategic level is real-time) . My suggestion? Do 
 you research. I don't play GoW expecting a car racing game. People are not "rating you down" because 
 "something's fishy" lol, they're rating you down because they flat out disagree and are having 
 a blast with this game. Don't assume your tastes are also every other human being out there -- since 
 you obviously enjoy games like GoW, go back to it's tea *ahem* "drinking" kidfest and leave the 
 adult games to adults. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osama99
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2009 11:35 am PT
Review:  Using a cliche: "they don't make them like this anymore".
  
  This game pretty much sums up most of what a good game is supposed to be: enjoyable, fun, addictive, 
 immersive and well polished - that is, the exact contrast of most of the shoot-em-up filth spamming 
 nowadays game market.
  
  We need more companies to realize that quality turn-based gaming is a profitable market, nowadays 
 more than ever because we seldom if ever get any games like this one and we're thirsty for them, 
 not for more lookalike FPS clones.
  
  If we were living in a world of plenty of quality and intelligent RPGs and tactical turn-based 
 games, I would have rated this game about 8/10. But since things must be evaluated under perspective 
 and we're living in a world of FPS ripoffs which ignorant people are calling "RPGs" and that is 
 the comparison point, I must rate King's Bounty: The Legend as a pure 10/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eclarkdog
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2009 12:25 am PT
Review:  Turned-based strategy is probably my favorite genre. Games like Silent Storm and CIV IV top my 
 list of favorite games. I've played Heroes of Might and Magic (HOMM) V and for the most part enjoyed 
 it, but grew tired of it in the later stages. HOMM V is a nice looking game but there's little 
 depth to it. I did enjoy Disciples but it was a bit dated by the time I played it. When King's 
 Bounty came along, I had some reservations about diving into similar game of this type. It looked 
 and appeared exactly like a HOMM clone. I was to learn though that it was a remake of a classic 
 that actually inspired the HOMM series. I figured I would wait some time before attempting this 
 game and let the price drop. Well, I found a half price deal not long ago so I decided to bite.
 
  
  I was pleasantly surprised right from the beginning with King's Bounty. First off, the graphics 
 are excellent and overall the game is just well produced. At it's core, KB is very similar to games 
 like HOMM and Disciples. In fact, the units and races are basically identical to those found in 
 HOMM. What sets King's Bounty apart from these games is the amount of depth, charm and even humor 
 found throughout the game. This game will keep you going because you have more interest in what's 
 going on around you. HOMM provides a few cut scenes to facilitate a very minimal and shattered 
 story line, but otherwise is just running from one stationary enemy to another to clean up a map. 
 This grows stale quickly. Furthermore, KB has no base building which honestly just grew rather 
 mundane in the other games. 
  
  KB has a real-time map in which your character (either Warrior, Mage, or Paladin) explores. Enemy 
 stacks will not let you explore at your leisure though and you must be on guard at all times. The 
 TBS combat is very well done with a lot of strategic depth and some interesting twists that add 
 to the gameplay - I won't give that away since it's tied to earlier quests. Your hero is not playable 
 directly like in HOMM, but really it's not a huge difference since the HOMM hero still really served 
 the same purpose of providing magic buffs and combat spells and could barely hurt a fly in actual 
 melee. 
  
  KB also has some nice role-playing elements for your hero with ability trees that provide bonus 
 in areas like combat, magic and mental (think leadership and trade) capabilities. Obviously, your 
 warrior will focus on specializing in combat, the mage on magic, while the paladin provides a more 
 balanced character with strength against the undead.
  
  I played the game through as the Paladin and started a new game as the Warrior. It's interesting 
 to note that each new game has some randomization as far as items and enemies go, so this does 
 provide some replayability.
  
  On the negative side, I would mention that there are a few small areas that probably could be more 
 fleshed out, especially toward the end. However, overall King's Bounty is a wonderful experience 
 and highly addictive game. I would certainly recommend this to anyone who enjoys the genre and 
 really any fan of strategy games in general. I found it to be a more rewarding experience than 
 HOMM V. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikegillis
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Notice how all the negative reviews of this game have been overwhelmingly voted down? Something 
 is up. I bought this game based on all of the positive "player" reviews. Anyways, to sum this game 
 up I can use one word. Tedium. 
  This game is just the same battle, over and over again. Throw in some different creatures, rinse 
 and repeat. I suspect after my review, there will be about 26 thumbs downs appear just like the 
 other negative reviews. Don't be deceived, this game is subpar, maybe a $10 game at best. I never 
 played the original, but if this is it , it definitely does not stand the test of time. 
  What else? Umm, this game has pretty graphics, sound drones on and is forgettable. I appreciate 
 that a lot of effort was put into this game but that effort was misguided.
  If there is a demo try it before you buy it. In my opinion this game is drivel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmills204
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2009 1:21 pm PT
Review:  From the very beginning, King's Bounty draws you in and keeps your focus. If you like turn based 
 strategy games, this is for you. Surprisingly fun to play, it does not get old. The campaign is 
 very long with countless things to do, and immeasurable units make the game very diverse. I was 
 amazed at how long of a game it is, I have played for quite a long time and I still have not beaten 
 it. The game is hard to play so that it does not get boring, but not so easy you can do it without 
 concentrating and strategizing. Overall I would say excellent game with hardly any flaws. Was a 
 little buggy for me, I had some glitches and quite a few crashes. In fact the latest patch only 
 increased the amounts of bugs. I installed the patch hoping to resolve some issues, and it only 
 increased them, so do not install it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaveHert
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 10:24 am PT
Review:  I didnt even know this game was coming out til I saw it on a shelf. I still go back and play the 
 original from time to time so this was like a gift from heaven. Anyone who enjoyed the first will 
 LOVE this game. Its like Heroes 5 without all the overly-complicated units and a much more casual 
 playing style. Instead of tackling the game in individual campaigns like you do in HOMM, you take 
 your one single hero, and bring him through from start to end. You can customize your army with 
 many different units, most of which will seem like HOMM monsters, but players of the original game 
 will know most of them were in there as well. A great game from start to finish I played it for 
 about 4 hours a day almost everyday until I was done with it. Replay value is ok I guess, the same 
 story and missions if you start a new campaign with a different class. Classes are pretty different, 
 though at the end most will be nearly maxed out in most aspects. Mages will always do more magic 
 damage, and can cast 2 spells per round. Warrior will always do more damage and have the most leadership, 
 which means more units. Paladin is a mix of them both, but really means sacrificing being the strongest 
 in that particular area. Skill points are obtained by level depending on your class, and are split 
 into 3 areas, each with a corresponding class who will gain the most points in there particular 
 skill set per level. They can also be gained in quests and by using items, or finding them along 
 the ground. By endgame youll have obtained so many of each type along the way that your starting 
 class doesnt really matter too much when it comes to getting most of the skills. A fun game overall. 
 A definite must have for anyone whos played the first, and a casual but terribly addictive adventure 
 for anyone who enoys games of the like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesjiao
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2009 3:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is very much reminiscent of the Heroes might and magic series, but even better. Improved 
 graphics, and gameplay are what make this game stand out from other games of its genre. 
  
  I've been playing it for the last 3 weeks now (not continuously obviously) and I have just reached 
 level 19 with my paladin. In my opinion, in late game, the paladin is probably the most troop efficient 
 as it starts out with the resurrect spell, which, with the correct talents and plenty of Intelligence, 
 can be used 6-7 times per battle +1 more with inquisitors. Anyway, I will keep playing and see 
 it turns out.
  
  Everything in the game is tied together very thoughtfully. If you play it right, you cannot finish 
 all the battles in one area, without having to explore the next first as there are always some 
 enemies who are too powerful for your level. I believe this is an intended design, because it forces 
 you to venture out to the world and continue following the story line without being bogged in one 
 place for too long.
  
  All in all, an instant classic and a masterpiece... 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slowram
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2009 4:10 pm PT
Review:  This is my first experience with King's Bounty. I had played all the HOMM games except 4 which 
 I read enough negative about I sold my copy before I opened it. This game is definitely similar 
 to Heroes of Might and Magic. 
  I was a bit confused about reading the game is real time and the battles turn based. The real time 
 aspect is simply monsters wandering a predefined route and if you come in contact with them you 
 go into the turn based battle. This is very much like console RPGs.
  The turn based battles are very much like HOMM except you rarely have any castle walls to knock 
 out. You have a few troops you control and each has it's own attack/powers and movement range. 
 One thing, a little frustrating but it adds to the strategy and complicates battles, new to the 
 formula is you have a set number of units you can control in each group. Depending on how powerful 
 the unit is effects how many you can control (less for more powerful groups, more for less powerful 
 groups) . This means you have to fight many battles to gain Leadership points so you can acquire 
 a large enough army to win battles. You also have spell points, like in HOMM, and are allowed to 
 cast 1 spell a turn. Unlike HOMM you don't have citadels you control instead you have locations 
 you can go to in order to hire different units. There is a set number of units at each location 
 however overtime more powerful units may come available. You gain experience by winning battles 
 and completing quests such as fetch me this or go here then there then fight this and return. Some 
 quests give you an item you can equip and allow you to then make purchases of units and or other 
 items/spells at that location. Most quests reward you with gold. There is a branching system of 
 skills/abilities adding to the RPG element of the game. 
  The battles are fun and challenging from time to time. You may find a foolproof strategy but as 
 the game advances you'll run into more difficult troops requiring new strategies. This keeps the 
 game fresh though strategies do work for long stretches.
  If you enjoyed Heroes of Might and Magic (not to be confused with the rpg Might and Magic) then 
 you'll enjoy this game. If you disliked HOMM you'll dislike this game as it's a slightly more battle 
 oriented version of HOMM without the hassles (and pleasures) of managing/growing citadels. If you 
 haven't played HOMM and enjoy turn based strategy games then give this a shot and then if you like 
 it expand out and try HOMM. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hathorian
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2009 5:17 am PT
Review:  This is a highly addictive and incredibly fun game. If you played and enjoyed the original King's 
 Bounty or any of the Heroes of Might and Magic (HOMM) series rush out and buy this game because 
 it is superior to any of them!
  
  The battles and commanding of armies is very similar to HOMM but the games differ in that this 
 game has no city building. You gather troops in this game by adventuring and exploring the world 
 and purchasing them using spoils of war. There are lots of quests and all of them are rewarding. 
 
  
  Leveling is very important because it influences the number of troops you can command (leadership) , 
 the attack and defense of your army, your spellcasting ability (mana and intellect) and special 
 abilities (might, mind and magic) . Building your army is also important as you have to balance 
 troop types (certain races don't like working with each other and will have lower morale if on 
 the same side) , melee/range, power, speed and initiative, and special abilities.
  
  I could go on about this game for hours but I'd rather be playing it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xanoxtheone
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 5:06 am PT
Review:  I've always been an TBS-addict, and my First steps in the TBS World had to be Disciples 2 (with 
 the expansions) . Later on it became the Homam-series and Civ4 is probably the reason no one speaks 
 to me anymore
  
  And now there is King's Bounty (KB) . KB is a game with dragons, undead, demons, you know the drill; 
 but the way you play it is quite different from the classic TBS game: you run around in real-time, 
 but the fighting is turn-based. While running around you pick up quests and have strange conversations; 
 and while in combat you cast spells, fight, and use the rather cool Box of Rage. 
  But I'm running ahead, let's start with the beginning: the installation.
  
  I didn't really 
 like the installation method of this game; you have to carefully read the instructions on the screen 
 to get it installed where you want it, and it crashed a few times because I was watching something 
 in media player. But besides those problems, it did what it had to do: install the game.
  
  When you launch the game you have the classic intro-movies which you can luckily skip, and after 
 the movies you see a nice image of a human knight and some other creatures. You have options, load, 
 new game,  tabs. As a new player, you click the new game tab. Then you choose your class and a 
 name and the game begins. You will probably notice that you can only pick human heroes, but don't 
 worry, you won't have to save the world with only human troops in your army. After you picked your 
 hero you spawn in some dungeon and you get your first quest.
  
  In this game you have an actual quest book, in which you can track all of your quests. Yes, you 
 can actually do more than one quest at the same time. After you finished the tutorial, in which 
 you learn to fight; use magic; dig up treasures, you can go and speak to your king. After you spoke 
 to your king, you are free to do what you want. You can go and help the people in the neighboring 
 village (sadly you can't burn them) , you can kill the creatures in the wild and take the treasure 
 they are guarding,
  
  The game world is immensely detailed, from squirrels in the trees to cobwebs in the tombs; you 
 will get surprised everywhere you look. One problem of all these details is the fact you easily 
 miss objects you can "use" in the game world. Often these objects (i. e. urns, tombs, stashes,) 
 contain gold and precious items; which are both very useful for the beginning adventurer. 
  
  Also the conversations you will have are worth a mention: often you will have the choice to 
 answer rude or polite, and depending on your answer the quest-reward can be different, or even 
 the whole quest can be different. You will also notice the conversations are quite funny, with 
 many references to movies and different games.
  
  On your journey you will eventually inspect your hero, and you will notice the hero-screen is quite 
 full: You have four main attributes: Leadership, Strength, Defense and Intellect. Leadership determines 
 the amount of troops you can take with you. Every unit occupies a certain amount of leadership 
 (i. e. an archmage is 200 leadership; a zombie is a mere 35) and you can only have that much of 
 one unit type as your leadership allows you (i. e. an hero with a leadership of 500 could take two 
 archamges and 14 zombies) . Strength increases the damage your troops do, Defense decreases the 
 damage they receive and Intellect increases your mana and the damage you deal with spells.
  
  You can also see how much gold, rage and mana you have. Gold is used to buy troops and artifacts, 
 rage is used (later on) to summon the spirits of rage and mana is used to cast spells. There is 
 also a strange icon in the bottom left corner of the screen, and it seems like it is just some 
 spare place, but later on the Box of Rage will come here. In the middle of the screen you see the 
 portrait of the hero, and also its inventory and his army. Once you get married you will also see 
 your wife's inventory and her portrait. You wife doesn't actually fight but she can provide bonuses 
 for you and your army and she can give you a child, which also provide bonuses. 
  
  There is quite a variety of items you can keep in your inventory, of which the most common are 
 those items you can equip. You can also carry quest-items (from paintings to rings to a cow) and 
 special "use" items. Most often these "use" items will be the eggs or seed of some sort of creature, 
 and once you use those items the creatures will join your army. There is only one problem: if your 
 army is full and you use those items, the creatures will be lost The most special objects in your 
 inventory are living items. Living items are often very potent magic weapons, and they have some 
 sort of "soul". Depending on their race/function they will lose/gain morale while fighting different 
 enemies (i. e. a dwarven hammer will "enjoy" fighting elves while he will "hate" it to fight dwarves) .
 
  
  Once an item's morale reaches zero, it will no longer obey you and you will lose its bonuses. You 
 can either make the item happy by fighting different troops or by suppressing it. If you choose 
 to suppress it you will fight the guardians of the item. This fight will be same like any other 
 fight, but now the enemy will be supported by evil gremlins on floating towers. Logically the stronger 
 the item, the stronger the enemy.
  
  In the hero's inventory is also a spell book. If you click on the book you will see all the different 
 spells you have learned and also what scrolls you posses. You can cast a spell directly from those 
 scrolls, thus losing the scroll but paying no mana, or you can learn the spell on the scroll. To 
 learn a spell you must have the required skill level in a certain school of magic, and you must 
 also have enough crystals. Crystals can be found all around the game world and they are used to 
 learn and upgrade spells. You can see the amount of crystals you posses on the side of you spell 
 book. 
  
  The last part of the hero-screen is his skill tree. On the top of the tree is a list of runes: 
 Might, Will and Magic. You can use these runes to upgrade different skills on the tree, providing 
 you with varying bonuses.
  
  Once you accumulated enough experience your hero will gain a level. Once you leveled, a screen 
 will pop up, giving you the choice between two bonuses (always chose the leadership bonus;) ) and 
 providing you with numerous runes which you can spend on skills.
  
  But enough about the character, let's talk about the part of the game you will spend most time 
 on: the combat. To get in combat, you have to run into an enemy, or if he doesn't like you, the 
 enemy will run into you. Once you entered combat, the game becomes turn based. The board is made 
 up hexagonal tiles, and all of you troops are deployed to one side, while (most often) the enemy's 
 troops are deployed to the other. From then on the unit with the highest initiative gets the first 
 go, and so on. Once one of your unit's can have a go, you can do three things: Cast a spell, use 
 the box of rage or use the unit. Once you use the unit, you can no longer cast spells/ use the 
 box until one of your units can fight again.
  
  In the first part of the game, you will only get to play with human soldiers, but further on you 
 can ask demons, dwarves, undead, elves, to join your ranks, and every unit comes with its own 
 pro's and contra's (i. e. a bear has huge damage, an increased chance to "critical strike" but it 
 doesn't have that much live) . Many of the units will also have their own special skills; some are 
 one-use only, other skills have a recharge time. 
  
  As a last part I'd like to talk about the music. The sound effects are not bad, but neither special, 
 but the soundtrack in combat as well as in the game world exists of one song, with a particularly 
 distinct part. After hearing this part 500 times during the same combat, you will want to throw 
 your speakers out of the window. Have mercy with your speakers and just turn of the music in the 
 options menu. Thank you
  
  So, I think I have mentioned about everything in the game, here is short round-up of the goods 
 and the bads:
  Good: A huge, detailed world; you WILL get addicted, a nice real-time rpg part; funny conversations; 
 intense combat; many different quests; many different units; you WILL get addicted; many different 
 skills; some nice and original spells; the Box of Rage; a bigger skill tree than in most RTS-games; 
 a nice items-system; you WILL get addicted, 
  Bad: you WILL get addicted; a strange installation; sometimes distracting details; the most annoying 
 soundtrack of the past century; once you used an item that gives you creatures, you will lose them 
 if you have no place in your army
  
  Overall this is a really nice game, with some nice innovations in the TBS-world. They should combine 
 this game with disciples and Homam; it would probably give THE TBS-game
  As for now, do yourself a favor and go and buy this game for Christmas/new year.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lestas
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  I can speak about King's Bounty: the Legend for days.
  Game shaking this, that delays you in the world and does not release. Music simply magnificent, 
 she carries away you in distant trip and forces to reflect about infinite. Defects are so scanty 
 in game and insignificant that you do not turn attentions on them.
  Reading previous reviews, I noticed that some will consider KB clone of Heroes.. This is final 
 full delirium, it can at once see that person wrote review, without playing. It is not desirable 
 to repeat words of previous players, therefore I will not paint the impressions. Game on 10 points 
 and all here! At us, in Russia, announced add-on. Date of output is planned on I quarter 2009 year. 
 It remains only to wait. 
  
  P. S. Translated through translator.
  Excuse me, if there are plenty of mistakes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rokushoax
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  King's Bounty came to me as an impulse buy, just something i bought cause I played the original 
 VGA version and wanted to see how it fared. No harm in that. I didn't expect much.
  
  To my very pleasant surprise, it was incredibly fun, addictive, beautiful and somewhat humourous.
 
  
  To break it down:
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are beautiful. Yes I've used this word twice already but that's 
 what it is so there. The art direction is inspired and knows what it wants. It presents a bright, 
 fairytale-ish flavour and the hand-drawn art is also nice. The water is pretty, the terrain is 
 appropriate, and the creatures are full of personality. The effects are polished and the creatures 
 are what they are supposed to be. All in all no issues here. The interface is simple and easy to 
 pick up.
  
  Gameplay: The game plays much like the Heroes of Might and Magic series as that series was inspired, 
 or was a spiritual successor, to the original King's Bounty. You play a hero leading an army, split 
 between real-time movement on the adventure map and turn-based combat. The leadership system, spells, 
 and leveling up, all provide a nice addictive way to keep you hooked, and so do the Spirits of 
 Rage. There is a learning curve at the beginning, even to those familiar to this type of gameplay 
 but especially to those who have never played such games before. I urge you, learn the game and 
 you'll love it. The difficulty is a bit scattered but provide a nice challenge, if somewhat inconsistent 
 one.
  
  Music: The music, I swear, is great. It does not pull your attention away from the game and yet 
 there are some parts which are rather catchy. The sound effects could have used a bit more variation 
 but that is just nitpicking. The sound design of the game is solid and there are no complains here.
 
  
  Story: The game starts you off as a just-graduated hero, and continues with standard hero fare. 
 Somehow, the game wholeheartedly embraces this story and does not try to make something new of 
 it and yet it draws you in as you start out as a small time errant boy to the king and take more 
 and more responsibility in things to come. The story is communicated mostly through written dialogue 
 bubbles but such is tradition, one that works to set the tone and feel of the game. There is not 
 much voice acting in the game and they could do with more of that. However, the characters in the 
 game positively drip with personality and individuality, each one a memorable one. There are also 
 many many jokes and references scattered through out the game and it's amazing how seamless the 
 join is that those who don't get it don't realise it's a joke. Well done here!
  
  + There is exactly one bug I have found but it is not gamebreaking and the fix is simple and already 
 out.
  
  + The game also is appealing to me as it gives a much missed sense of nostalgia I've never felt 
 for a long time.
  
  All in all, the game is a solid addition to your gaming collection, don't hesitate to pick up a 
 copy if you are into slower paced games and don't mind reading. The game has no major and/or minor 
 drawbacks. Well done developers!
  
  * I wrote this review in the middle of the morning with a fever but that did not affect my judgement 
 at all as all the playtime was put in before I got sick, although I am going through a major exam 
 now, so perhaps it gets good marks as an excellent stress release method. And of course, the nostalgia 
 gives major points too. Judge for yourself. No, I'm not a native speaker of English. Sorry for 
 any misspellings.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersonu1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  About the Game type:
  
  First of all let me clear you about the type of game this is as there is some confusion about it.
 
  This game is like Heroes of Might and Magic (HoMM) series but with 2 key difference:
  a) Here you move in Real time in the game map
  b) There is no Castle development here.
  
 
  In effect its you move in the map in real time but battle's occur in Turn Based fashion.
  
  About the Game:
  
  King's Bounty legend creates a beautiful world where your hero moves 
 and battles with various monsters, humans etc. in Turn based fashion. The quest in this game are 
 given in the form of text dialogs which are almost every time quite funny.
  
  When you start the game you can choose from 3 classes (Warrior, Mage & Paladin) and can recruit 
 army of various creatures and humans. All the units in the game are quite different with different 
 attacks and special abilities.
  
  Learning the game play is quite easy and there is loads of different strategies involved in fighting.
 
  
  About the world, it's quite beautiful and 3D with use of rich colour palette. You can't help but 
 marvel with the attention of detail the game creator went through in creating this world. 
  
  Only negative point I found in this game is that its quite long and gets a bit repetitive towards 
 the end.
  
  Being a long time fans of HoMM series I will highly recommend this game to anybody who enjoyed 
 the aforementioned series.
  
  As for new players not everyone likes Turn-Based battle so I'll recommend them to try the game 
 first by downloading it's demo from here: www. kings-bounty. com
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: moodflow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 1:57 am PT
Review:  When I started playing, I found out that this was the kind of game I had been waiting for. Heroes 
 with real-time movement and RPG elements.
  
  The reason I didn't enjoy it as much as other GS reviewers, I think, is because I quickly grew 
 tired of what I like to believe was a boring and uninspired story. The dialogue was uninteresting 
 and I didn't like the jokes, not my kind of humor. I guess I should have taken more time, and learn 
 to like the story slowly. Instead, I have ended up skipping all dialogue and story.
  
  I enjoyed "the additions" like the chest of rage, where you can summon creatures with abilities 
 as you build up rage through battles, or the fact that you don't have your own castle. The RPG 
 elements are great and your leadership level prevents you from buying an unbeatable army even though 
 you have the money, a smart feature. There is a randomness to the game's artifacts and troops, 
 so each time you play a new game, the experience will change. 
  
  I found the game quite hard, which was very pleasing. The quests were quite diversified, when you 
 keep in mind what the game is based upon. You have to move the camera a lot, as not to get attacked 
 and defeated by a strong opponent you don't see, but it works very well.
  
  The art is incredible, lots of details. It is very colorful and looks like a fairy tale. You could 
 say you were in a child's dreams. Spell effects are also great.
  
  The game tends to get repetitive, as you will be fighting an huge amount of battles. But that is 
 to be expected. I did miss the "auto-combat" button a lot though.
  
  The quest and map information should have been a little better. You can, however, put your own 
 notes on the map, a feature i used to the fullest.
  
  The sound effects are ok and the music was a little less than ok. I also experienced one bug, where 
 a quest couldn't be finished as the game always crash upon interacting with a certain character. 
 This was the only one however, and I didn't really mmind.
  
  In conclusion, this is a excellent game, with fantastic artwork and addictive gameplay. But my 
 liking to the story and humor was non-existent, and i was missing a few features. But again, yes, 
 it is an excellent game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: primusamurai
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2008 1:28 am PT
Review:  i love it.
  nice game indeed, beats heroes of might and magic.
  nice graphics and game play feels very relaxing.
  all the best to the developers.
  good game. 
 not so many new things but is balanced.
  not hard to play for new RTS/TBS players.
  for now never meet a bug. the music is also great and sounds are very well made. makes you stay 
 and listen to it.
  
  i hope that will follow an add-on or maybe a second release, like heroes of might and magic, a 
 very well known saga.
  
  more creature number would been good and to chose a race from the beginning would been also very 
 nice. 
  some how the N, S, E, W is kind of trouble making but as the time passes you'll get use to it.
  
 
  at the end i recommend this game to all players, from any genre, just to take a short look and 
 enjoy it, it will keep you in good mood. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nailex
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2008 3:47 am PT
Review:  I'm not kidding. For the last 2 weeks I've spent over 100 hours playing King's Bounty (I work full 
 day, have a girlfriend and even sleep sometimes ;) ) . I spent every free minute playing this game. 
 I had been sucked by it and I just couldn't get away.
  
  1. Technical issues - Well as it is a russian game it had some glitches mostly due to errors during 
 localization (I blame Atari for this) . After the first patch almost all of them were fixed. The 
 game have incredible music, exactly what I would call Heroic. Unlike some similar games the camera 
 is very friendly and easy to use.
  
  2. Graphics - I've tested the game on 2 PC's. On my home PC (8800GT) I've managed to run the game 
 at high settings and it looks incredible with one of the most realistic waters I've seen on a strategy 
 game ever. On my work PC though (8400GS) I've barely managed to run the game at low details and 
 i had a significant drop in FPS when i was using ships and sailing.
  
  3. Story - The story is incredible. If you read every dialog in the game you will truly understand 
 the world of Endoria. At times the story is made cliche on purpose while on other places you will 
 do quests which it is doubtful a "Hero" should do :) . I don't want to spoil anything to you so 
 I'll just say - Play the game and learn.
  
  4. Gameplay - At first look the game looks very similar to Heroes of Might and Magic series. You 
 have a hero riding a horse, an army and you fight creatures on a battlefield similar to the one 
 from HMM series. But the similarities ends here. There is a lot of various different things which 
 makes the game significantly different (you have a maximum army you can use, different base stats, 
 etc) . The game is also not turn based but real-time. Also you don't have a castle but you hire 
 your army from the castles of different rulers (the higher your reputation with the ruler the higher 
 level creatures he offers) and dwellings on the map.
  
  There is over 100 different creatures, more then 100 different artifacts (you can't see all of 
 them in one game) 100 spells and countless combinations and tactics you can use to make your army 
 and strategy.
  
  In the start of the game you have to chose between 3 types of heroes - A Warrior, a Paladin and 
 a Mage. This is maybe the biggest problem of the game. The 3 classes aren't balanced. You will 
 barely be able to finish the game on Hard difficulty with Paladin or Warrior and on Impossible 
 you can forget about doing this. On contrary the Mage have almost no difficulty beating the game 
 on Hard and it is the only one standing a chance on Impossible. So if you are knew to this types 
 of games chose Mage. Other bad thing is that you only have one map and after a second play of the 
 game you probably want start it again for a third time. There is a few things which get randomized 
 with each game but the quests are the same (there is 101 or 102 quests in the game) which will 
 probably stops you from playing again. The good thing is that there is a very good Russian modding 
 community which will probably make something else from the game in no time. The bad is that i doubt 
 many of the mods will be translated at English. 
  
  5. Multiplayer - Sadly there isn't one. 
  
  King's bounty isn't the perfect game. It has its 
 own bugs and unbalances. But in a age where most games offers your a miserable 5-6 hours of gameplay 
 (cough, Warhead, cough) for a price of over 50$ a game which offers you more the 60 hours of pure 
 fun for half that price is something really worthy. Because King's Bounty is a game which isn't 
 done for money. It is a game made for us gamers - a game made with love for the gaming not made 
 to fill some corporate bastard pocket with money. So i strongly recommend you to buy this game. 
 Because the future of the video games lies in games like that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: righteousdpm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. I haven't played a strategy game like this in a long time. Its gripped me 
 in so many ways. There are a few things that stand out to me that i will talk about..
  
  The world is massively beautiful. You won't stop google eyeing the beauty of the artwork and animations. 
 You'll always be looking around the next corner to see what lies ahead or around some bush to see 
 if there's treasure! You never know what your going to find. I understand everyone is talking about 
 the fast-travel option, but seriously i love traveling around this world. 
  
  If you have a good imagination, the story is actually quite good. I even see how they have put 
 quite a personality in most of the characters and that's exciting to me. Some of the side-quests 
 can take a while to complete and are very challenging. You need to know strategy to be good at 
 this game.
  
  The last thing i'd like to talk about is the AWESOME combat system. The animations of the characters 
 rocks fantasy style. They seem to capture the essence of each fantastical unit and you laugh after 
 a unit dies. You see the winner do some cheer of victory. Your hero is able to upgrade his units 
 by leveling up his skills which i found interesting.
  
  Let me see if i can give a good image of this game....
  
  Basically Kings Bounty: The Legend 
 involves awesome strategy even for the best of them. It has beautiful graphics and animations that 
 will draw you right in. With such a variety of gameplay and tons of items, units and spells at 
 your disposal this game will be played for a very long time.
  
  CYA! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sentencer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 9:15 pm PT
Review:  King's Bounty: The Legend is a really fun and addictive game that tends to just suck up your free 
 time. It's cartoonish style and witty charm are also a delight. I am particularly fond of the cohesive 
 mix between RPG and strategy elements that flow together and make sense. Combat is great and entertaining 
 as well. Even outnumbered, some effectively placed spells and good strategy can turn the tide. 
 Although, some elements would have been nice; auto travel options on the world map would save you 
 a lot of time, auto resolve for combat involving very low-level enemies would save precious time, 
 and some level scaling would help ease these annoyances. 
  
  Speaking of which, the random factor of the game is an excellent idea for potential re-playability, 
 but only when controlled effectively. When you run right out of the gate, and face an enemy with 
 four times as many units as you with severely more powerful units, it could frustrate a new player. 
 Unless you like the motto of save before each encounter, the random factor of this game can really 
 set you back on playtime. 
  
  Overall, King's Bounty: The Legend is an excellent game which is really fun to play; however the 
 minor quirks can get annoying... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryble85
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Lets just go to the bad points...
  
  1st the most disappointing part is... the camera system... really did hope they can make the camera 
 system... did anyone notice about this?
  
  2nd also due to the bad camera system... unable to see or avoid some of the impossible (very strong 
 or strong) NPC and have to restart very often if they attacked u...
  
  3rd the gameplay is a bit slow... one match of easy opponents can take u up to 20 min depending 
 on the terrain... sometimes when u are trying to finish a quest fast its VERY frustrating
  
  4th the animation/movement of each individual army is some how.... ugly... dun misunderstand.... the 
 graphics are very well done... just the action and movement feels like robots...
  
  My conclusion is.... hell yeah.. this is an old school TBS added in with A LITTLE BIT MORE RPG element 
 that makes this game highly rated... but this game is definitely NOT a perfect TBS game even if 
 you (or me) are a die hard fans of turn base strategy... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 23, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  King's Bounty was one of those old PC titles that not many people have heard of, but it still managed 
 to gain a dedicated following. A predecessor to the Heroes of Might and Magic series, the original 
 King's Bounty was set in New World Computing's original Might and Magic universe. King's Bounty 
 was remade twice before, once for the Sega Genesis\Megadrive, and second for the Playstation 2 
 as "Heroes of Might and Magic: Quest for the Dragonbone Staff", a third remake shouldn't be too 
 surprising considering the success of UbiSoft's Heroes of Might and Magic V.
  
  Unlike the past three editions of King's Bounty, King's Bounty: The Legend has nothing to do with 
 either the old New World Computing, nor new UbiSoft Might and Magic universes. Despite this, the 
 structure of the plot (if you'd call it that) is the same. You become a "Treasure Seeker" for a 
 King, and must battle villains while you perform quests for your King. You can start off the game 
 as one of three classes, the Warrior, Mage, or Paladin. The storyline of King's Bounty is fairly 
 simple good versus evil stuff, and the English translation is abysmal, but it's satisfactory enough 
 for a game of this type.
  
  King's Bounty stays fairly true to the original game, while introducing a battle system more similar 
 to Heroes of Might and Magic III than the past incarnations. Essentially you guide your hero around 
 the game world performing quests, and battling monsters and other hostile enemies in a turn based, 
 hex grid style brawl where your hero sits back and casts magic, while you command your units to 
 engage the enemies.
  
  Essentially what King's Bounty comes down to is performing simplistic quests while battling enemies. 
 This may sound like good fun, but there's a lot, and I mean A LOT of battles in just one of the 
 game's many areas. After a few hours it starts to become a monotonous cycle. If you can't get enough 
 of HoMM style battles then King's Bounty is right up your alley, but I found the rate in which 
 you entered battles rather ridiculous, and since there's no auto resolve function and you can't 
 skip battles it became an exercise in tedium.
  
  Visually many would say the game isn't up to par, but where King's Bounty succeeds is in its artistry. 
 The game world is brought to life with vibrant colors, and beautiful environments reminiscent of 
 classic fantasy, and fairy tales. Most areas have a very unique look, and while some units have 
 low polygons in battle it's still a beautiful game. In terms of audio there's not much to say, 
 the sound effects work for this kind of game, and the music is a pretty generic fantasy score.
 
  
  King's Bounty: The Legend is an okay game, it's definitely not up to par with Heroes of Might and 
 Magic due to the tedious rate in which you encounter unavoidable battles. On the other hand, it's 
 a nice little distraction, and it's something different in a era in gaming where many developers 
 have little to no imagination. It could have been a lot better with just an auto resolve button, 
 though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterhannibal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Actually, before i began to play King's Bounty The Legend, i had downloaded Heroes Of Might & Magic 
 V, but the truth is that i didn't enjoy it a lot... May be i didn't like the atmosphere or the 
 graphics... May be the music... That's why i may try this new game a little... But, when i started 
 i found myself totally addicted & totally challenged & i began to spend hours & hours watching 
 my troops growing & my hero gaining abilities... At the beginning, i was disappointed as i couldn't 
 fight with the hero character himself, although they played upon us a silly trick by making him 
 join your first battle only :D. But, later i agreed about the purpose of using him as only a leader 
 & enjoy his abilities which direct the battle from far away....
  
  As i said , i didn't play Heroes Of Might & Magic V more than 1 hour, so i m supposed to be new 
 to these kind of games, but it turn out to be wrong as i played Final Fantasy 7 & Final Fantasy 
 8 on PC which are based on the same battling system, except for the fact that in FF you upgrade 
 the health & level of you fighting units, while here, you increase their numbers thus increasing 
 the total of their healths & also, you can't upgrade their levels, but you can replace them by 
 higher level units & your the number of additional squads depends on the level & leadership of 
 your hero...
  
  BUUUUUUUUUUTTTTTT:
  & I wish to highlight this BUT, in this style of games the most enjoyable thing is the troops movement... 
 You don't just go during your turn & attack someone who is far away from you with a melee unit 
 , then simply return back to your initial place like FF because it's not logical or because FF 
 assume that the space between you & your enemy is always close.
  Really the control of the troops movement is one of the most enjoyable facts in the battling system 
 because me, myself, i won battles only according to movements on battle field... & here , to make 
 the thing more difficult, you can't place your units on the battlefield before battle simply, but 
 you need to acquire an ability (which come so late) called KNOWING TACTICS to gain the advantage 
 of placing your units on the field before starting the battle...
  
  It was so challenging & so intriguing when you go and fight an enemy who is much much more stronger 
 than you & you finally defeat him using your mind, your movements on the terrain, your abilities 
 management & your counter measures & gain in compensation a lot of experience....
  
  About the music, the music is normal & suitable to the environment which is the fantasy environment 
 of Dragons, fairies , knights, orcs, goblins... etc.
  
  About the graphics, they are so amazing & so beautiful & the colors are really cheerful... You 
 can never underrate such game graphics although they don't use so much effects...
  
  About the vocal assessment, there is no voice acting as most of the these kind of games...
  
 
  & Usually, if you're not battling, the game is going as an RPG build...
  
  A real nice challenging game , which push you to work your mind & take your hat off... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deckard2323
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  King's Bounty  The Legend is a strategy game with RPG elements that plays similarly to Heroes 
 of Might & Magic games. But, while in Heroes of Might & Magic a player had god-like control over 
 castles and heroes, in King's Bounty he takes control over just one hero and through battles and 
 quests, develops his abilities. 
  
  While traversing the map in real time, the hero can engage roaming (and stationary) enemy armies, 
 gather scattered gold and runes, visit shires for experience, and castles, towns, and huts for 
 quests and to recruit troops. Gold, which is needed for recruitment, can be obtained by finding 
 chests on the map, winning a battle, or by completing quests. Quest completion and battles also 
 provide the hero with experience, which allows him to rise in levels and improve his abilities. 
 
  
  Before you engage in combat and if you have Scouting skill, you can right-click on the opposing 
 army to determine its strength. This can save you from attacking an army which could easily overwhelm 
 you. Battles are very much like Heroes of Might & Magic: troop movements, spells, initiative all 
 very much mirror HoMM games. One new element is the Chest of Rage, which allows the hero to cast 
 additional spells that belong to one of four Spirits of Rage. By killing opposing troops, the hero 
 gains rage points, which are then used to cast the spell from the Chest. Each of the four Spirits 
 of Rage has four distinctive spells which can be improved as the spirit gains levels.
  
  Graphically, I found the game very attractive. Art is very detailed, bright, colorful, and pleasing 
 to the eye. There is so much "prettiness" on the screen that sometimes it's easy to miss a clickable 
 goodie like a skeleton you can search for gold. Sound is good and orchestral soundtrack typical 
 of the genre. However, it's no Jeremy Soule and after a while, it becomes fairly repetitive and 
 forgettable. There is no voice acting and a fair amount of reading is required. I find the game 
 very engaging, but I'm a little dubious of its lasting appeal. There are only three hero types 
 available (a warrior, a paladin, and a mage) and once you've beaten the game (and it will take 
 many hours to do so) , there might not be enough variety to try to beat it again. However, if you 
 like Heroes of Might & Magic (and especially its tactical combat, which there is a lot of in King's 
 Bounty) , you should definitely give this game a try.
  
  ============================
  Played on Intel Core 2 Quad Q6700; 4 MB of RAM; 2 x 768 MB Nvidia GeForce 8800 GTX;
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: polarman
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  I followed this title for a while and was pretty skeptical at the end result. I was certainly hopeful 
 of this one making it. I always had a lot letdowns when it came to remakes AKA: Dune2000, UFO Aftermath.
 
  
  I downloaded the demo and gave it a try. All i could say was WOW! I cleaned up everything i could 
 on this demo and i was begging for more.
  
  Aside from some small annoyances, everything is short of perfection. Ubisoft should take some lessons 
 from these guys on how to follow up on a true classic.
  
  This game deserves my 10. It's really a shame that this game will end up as a best game that people 
 never tried.
  
  Come on Gamespot, you review titles that are far worse than this. A review from you will boost 
 recognition of this amazing game.
  
  BTW: Nowhere to be found in Canada, Had to purchase full game online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirkel28
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2008 12:08 pm PT
Review:  People who think this is meant to be a pure strategy game like HOMM or something, and compare directly 
 it to HOMM are mistaken.
  
  Yes the battle system looks and is very similar too HOMM, but that is where it ends. The rest of 
 the game is pure RPG and a very good quality one.
  
  The over world map you travel in real time, not turns. You don't own multiple heroes or castles. 
 One hero, with his army size depending on his ability of leadership. You can't stack endless amount 
 of creatures because in this game you are limited by how good your leadership skill is, which makes 
 it a bit more interesting. The hero has a skill tree similar to WoW's or Diablo's skill trees. 
 The enemy armies move and chase you to an extent.
  
  The world has plenty of stuff to find and explore and the graphics are very nicely detailed and 
 animated, more than I have seen in any PC game of this kind. The music is perfectly fitting and 
 very well done.
  
  Game play is well balanced and you have lots of choices on how to solve quests, build you character 
 and your army. Each creature has special abilities you can use if you choose, along with your spells. 
 Common sense things are in the game, like archers don't seem do much damage to skeletons, and priest 
 do more damage against undead for example.
  There is more, like getting married, summoning these guys, sort of like summoning in Final Fantasy 
 games, that fight for you after building up rage type stuff.
  
  I haven't seen too many games as well polished and quality as this. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fix86
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Well... tactical map in real time is a bad move (maybe is innovative, but for me sucks)
  Graphics are fine, but for this type of game this isnt important at all...
  WHERE IS THE CASTLE!!!?? 
 WTF... u dont have any castle, and the skill tree is just too simple... The classes for choose 
 are 3 (knight, paladin and mage  blaaa) All the complex of the HoMM series are gone. The game 
 lacks in history, quests are boring like "go there and kill this dummys and brings back the gold" 
 or "carry this notes to my family". In other words is just a mix of lineage and a simple Heroes 
 (sounds like garbage no? jaja)
  HEROES 3 Forever!!! pls stop making games with flaws and shines, just make a game with good gameplay, 
 history and complex... 
  If u want a HoMM but M. O. R. E simple this is for you... If u are looking for something more challenging 
 just dont pick this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wainamoin3n
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2008 12:50 am PT
Review:  King's Bounty is to Heroes of Might and Magic what Wolfenstein 3D, Doom and Quake are to all modern 
 shooters.
  
  Of course, such an oldie (the initial game was released 18 years ago) really deserved a good remake. 
 Preserving the original flavour and concept and mixing that with some of the best features brought 
 by HOMM franchise, the Russians from Katauri Interactive delivered an incredible game, which hypnotizes 
 right from the moment you get to see the main menu.
  Skillfully programmed and designed, The Legend has elements both from the original King's Bounty 
 (you only get one hero, no castle building) and a lot of traits sported by later HOMM games.
  
  The rendition of the world itself (called Endoria) is absolutely brilliant, with a masterful 
 art design that gives personality and charm to each and every character and piece of scenery. In 
 a childish and colourful style, a tad naive and kitschy, Endoria grows on you, reminding of all 
 the childhood fairytales, supported seamlessly by the playful and somentimes mystique audio score 
 and sounds.
  
  The Russians sure know their poetry, and that shows in almost all respects of the game.
  Storylinewise, 
 the main plot doesn't have much coherence, being ultimately an excuse to visit all the regions 
 of Endoria by horse, dirigible, ship or train. In opposition, many quests feature great humour 
 and interesting mini-stories, filled with magic in such a way that I've constantly felt like I 
 was a seven year old reading his favourite fantasy pieces. There's always something interesting 
 to do and something shiny to catch your eye. The world map itself is like a huge stitch of little 
 Heres-like maps, but with much more personality and charm, tied together by multiple passageways.
 
  
  The combat is mainly a mix between Heroes III and the original (action points and initiative) with 
 a few flaws but generally smooth and challenging sets which can always be used to gain a tactical 
 advantage. The Box'o'Rage is a great addition, and the three character types play wonderfully different. 
 The only things one really may complain about is the randomness of monsters and collectables from 
 game to game and the lack of uniformity of the monstes' strength throughout maps. From my point 
 of view, they give you reason to always return to earlier maps instead of robotically completing 
 each and every one of them by taking out everything that can be defeated and solving every quest. 
 Spells are strong but not infailible, as are the strengths and virtues of the Warrior and Paladin. 
 All classes share most of the skills except some special class tiers, which really do make a difference. 
 The leadership feature prevents players to become too powerful and the rune advancement system 
 prohibits the character a quick grind-like evolution, which is great.
  
  All in all, with all its little flaws, King's Bounty is a truly magic title that makes you instantly 
 addicted.
  Still, it should be savoured slowly and with attention to detail, as it was meant to, because replayability 
 is not exactly its strong point. You might as well choose Hard difficulty and let its flavour last 
 a few months before finishing the game.
  
  I bow before this remake and I'll be waiting for more Katauri Interactive goodness ASAP!
  
 
  BOTTOM LINE: King's Bounty The Legend is a beautiful jewel... Ahhh... my precioussss :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the1sean
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 11:41 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks. Its a great remake of a classic. I am suprised by how awesome the artwork is, 
 every area and enemy just pop out of the screen. The fantasy setting is isnt weird, its very classic, 
 but manages to have a flair very much its own, this is not derivative. The battle system and hero 
 progression system are very in depth, and i just cant put it down. There are dozens of hours of 
 game play, I have been playing for over 3 days now and I still havent left the first continent 
 of FIVE! The quests are all very well done and slowly reveal the detailed background of the setting. 
 There are a couple of reasons I have given it a 9.5 and not a 10: first, once your army becomes 
 powerful enough there needs to be an "autoresolve" button for when you completely outmatch a wandering 
 mob; secondly there are a couple of typos in the quest text. Thats about it! Truly an in-depth 
 game that any fan of either RPGs or tactical games should check out! Much better story, artwork, 
 game balance, and game length than any strategy game or RPG I have played in a years, turn based 
 or real time. Definitely check this one out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tabbikaat
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2008 4:52 am PT
Review:  Ok, this is a turn-based strategy game. NOT a "Diablo Clone" as one idiot reviewer said on another 
 gaming WEB site, nor is it "real-time" strategy as it is classified here. It IS puzzling why Gamespot 
 has not reviewed it yet.... wondering if they intend to? This game is colorful, addictive, with 
 an unbelievable attention to detail and character animation. I find that the artwork is incredibly 
 beautiful in it's design/detail. You will notice that the human Inquisitor (spell-caster) has magic 
 books tied around his waist. The Dwarf Canoneer (archer-type) drags his cannon into a strategic 
 space, loads a canon ball, takes aim and fires at the enemy! Once, during a routine turn-based 
 battle, I saw a black bird fly over the battle ground, then land on a tree branch in the middle 
 of the battlefield. I have played many RPGS, action RPGs and RPG-strategy games so it takes a LOT 
 to surprise me. There are many maps to explore, secrets to uncover, army building and recruiting, 
 errands to run, Princesses to marry and children to have. Unfortunately, I didn't pay enough attention 
 to my frog-turned-princess-wife, so she turned back into a frog! Not sure what to do about this 
 yet... There is so much to discover, so many errands to run, but luckily you have a quest log to 
 track it for you. My only whine is I wish the quest log was more detailed about where the quest 
 givers are located.... as I frequently get sidetracked and/or lost when exploring. (the mapping 
 system DOES allow you to custom mark locations, I am just so busy:) There are 3 difficulty settings, 
 3 hero types to choose from, and you will be able to customize your hero to suit your playing style.... oh, 
 my final whine would be no female heroes to choose from as I am female. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: touchmydog
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  Kings Bounty looks and plays like an old school rpg yet it has surprising strategic depth in its 
 combat variations.
  
  Naturally It has similarities to HOMM series as the original King's Bounty preceeded and inspired 
 the much loved turn based strategy classic. This is mostly to be seen on the combat screen which 
 utilizes the same hex grid turn based system.
  
  However, the adventure map is real time giving a wonderful sense of freedom and a strong spirit 
 of exploration. The world itself is very big and has been created with a fine eye for detail, the 
 eye candy is pleasing and plentiful. 
  
  Staying faithful to its old school roots, Character options at the start are very limited with 
 3 classes to choose from. However, there is a good talent tree system branching across them for 
 added replayability. 
  
  The story line is quite generic but the myriad of npcs is engaging and a good dose of humour sparkles 
 through the translated text.
  
  There are some new and interesting ideas here also, for exmaple upgrading items will take you to 
 an inner vortex grid map where you must defeat keepers and the fights can be very challenging. 
 All the enviroments and lands you wonder through are interesting to see and explore with good variations 
 in landscape.
  
  Overall, this is highly recommended losing marks only for small things such as customising appearance. 
 Massively addictive and great fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dkl322
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  In my opinion this is one of the best fantasy/strategy games in the past 5 years. It combines the 
 best features of Might and Magic with a touch of World of Warcraft to create a truly addicting 
 experience. I rate a game based on the how compelled I am to finish it. So far I've put in over 
 30hrs, I can't stop playing, and I'm not half way done. There are a few problems, like a forgetable 
 story, poor map information, and some retracing but excellent loot grabing, map exploration, and 
 army/resource gathering more than make up for it. The animation and sounds are excellent as well. 
 I can play the game of my desktop or laptop (with setting lowered) and it does not really affect 
 my enjoyment of the game.
  
  Other games that I enjoyed that are similar:
  Jagged Alliance
  Might and Magic (imo KB is way better)
  Civilization
  
  Why hasn't Gamespot 
 reviewed this game and why is there so little press on such an amazing game? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brucetom
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2008 9:55 pm PT
Review:  This games this better than Heroes of Might & Magic playing matter. why i said this better King's 
 Bounty: The Legend is free to move where you wish to go and Heroes of Might & Magic you can only 
 move your max how step you can move and wait for next turn and emery do the same. for King's Bounty: 
 The Legend very differen everyone fair you are good or bad guy move freely. this game the map big 
 and Q is good . you can have one wife and have 04 baby this is good. Heroes of Might & Magic cant 
 have wife and baby and item you find you cant keep for next map. this is bad and BBB games. i hope 
 you guy play King's Bounty: The Legend this is good game i ever seen. sorry if my word and G not 
 good please forgive. cheer and enjoy playing King's Bounty: The Legend. cheer cheer cheer cheer 
 cheer cheer cheer cheer cheer cheer cheer cheer cheer cheer cheer cheer cheer cheer cheer cheer 
 cheer cheer cheer cheer cheer cheer cheer cheer cheer cheer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sarcerok
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2008 9:07 pm PT
Review:  At the risk of dating myself I must admit I loved the original King's Bounty from 1990. I also 
 enjoyed the Heroes of Might and Magic series (though not so fond of the lastest version V) . With 
 King's Bounty: The Legend I was hoping for a modern version of the series without too many (invariably 
 bad) changes. 
  
  Imagine my surprise when I found out that the new version had too many new features to list, and 
 that they all seemed to enhance gameplay and immersion in a way I have not experienced in a PC 
 game in many years. The recent trend in gaming seems to be flash over content. In the case of the 
 new KB, the game is gorgeously rendered AND has massive accessible content combined with a high 
 level of replayability.
  
  While the replayability of the game (due to 3 classes and map/artifact randomization) is apparent, 
 the game is so deep that you won't really need it for a while. The game has four contenents like 
 the original with some 20 plus quests on each continent. Almost all quests are involved with multiple 
 steps and very creative writing. 
  
  The spell system is amazing with some 100 spells in three categories of magic, and each spell possessing 
 three levels. Graphics are great, the system is easy to use, and it is very well balanced so that 
 you will not just be using the same few spells throughout the game. The spell system is complemented 
 by a totally new Rage magic system where you basicly level up and customize the powers of 4 Rage 
 Spirits to use their spell-like abilities in combat on top of your spell ability. How you develop 
 your Rage Spirits also leaves a lot of room for replayability. 
  
  Battle maps are great fun with natural terrain obstacles, random treasure chests (that can have 
 more than just gold in them) , and other weird features. These other weird features can be objects 
 that cast harmful effects on anything that gets close, or could be a helpful object that buffs 
 nearby armies. This combined with the rich diversity of creatures in the game makes each combat 
 a lot of fun, even after the 500th battle. 
  
  Finally I have to give special accolades for the marriage system. Each of the wives (I have only 
 found 3 so far) is aquired after a long quest. You can only have one though two of the ones I have 
 found transform into two different versions! They are also customizable by wether you choose to 
 use their item slots for artifacts, or fill them with babies! Each baby adds a special ability 
 to your hero. Some are not so good but some are extremely powerful. The "more advanced" wives seem 
 to pump out more powerful children. You can only have one wife, so divorce is an option. Your Ex 
 will take a fifth of your gold and your children with her.
  
  While there is some noticibly difficult translations in the English version, the writing is still 
 brilliant and funny. Stability is almost perfect (1 crash per 40 hours or so) , everything runs 
 smooth on an old system, and it is clear the developers did five times the work on this program 
 than is the norm in contemporary Western titles. It is a shame they will never get the credit they 
 deserve in the USA since the authors are from Eastern Europe. You can see this immediately since 
 this game is one of the best strategy/RPG titles in years and two weeks after launch Gamespot has 
 still not done a review of the title. If this was an EA or Bethesda title the staff would be crawling 
 all over each other to do a review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zedit
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:  This game is Surprisingly exellent if not more. At first it sounds, feels and looks boaring.
  Play for two hours and u won't leave it.
  
  They should have definitly put an auto combat feature!!! 
 This mistake makes the game repetitive and forces you to fight really boaring battles...
  Some rare crashes while saving
  Some translation errors
  ALL else is really great from sound 
 to gameplay.
  
  Anyways, for any Rpg, adventure, RTS player, this is a MUST have in my opinion... a magical game 
 just like good old days.
  
  They should have done more marketing !!!!!!
  
  Where's the AUTO RESOLVE ??!! What a stupid mistake!! :P
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedemon44
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  It has everything I want, and has kept very true to its origins. When I was a kid I couldn't get 
 enough of King's Bounty on the Genesis. I still play the original on an emulator on my PSP along 
 with some other great classics.
  
  The game gives you the feeling of constant achievement, and growth. Its subtle, as you run around 
 collecting runes, increasing your abilities and getting rich, while slaying the various evil armies 
 that infest the lands, which you gradually make safe for all. This in turn make it easier to run 
 around, replenish your armies and complete the quests you have accepted.
  King's Bounty is a game worth trying out. Its may not be for everyone, but if it is for you, you 
 will have nothing but a good immersive experience.
  
  ~And now i write this because i am 59 characters short of the minimum 800 characters they demand 
 in a 'proper' review~ =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masanhueza
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  I`ve always consider turn base game great cause they make break your head to overcome battles. 
 one thing that you can spect fromo king`s bounty are hours of immersive gameplay cause you play 
 a fight saying "ok.. the last one" and it never is. This game has nice but simple graphics, music 
 is a little repetitive, but doesn`t bore you. The only problem is character development you have 
 a very short list of upgrades and leveling is a slow process. besides you only upgrade the commander 
 of the army so the troops recieve the benefits. but you can develop and combine abilities for the 
 troop itself wich decrease the combinations of skills. In this matter I always remember final fantasy 
 tactics which strong point was that character development. It was very funny cause all your troop 
 can switch jobs and mix the abilities for different school and they also gain level so you had 
 to take care of them. In this game you simply buy the max number of each class and really doesn`t 
 matter if they`re slain cause you can always buy more. despise this little stepback, gameplay is 
 fun and challenging so you`ll need to take extra care on how to fight and the position each of 
 you troops have in the battlefield. The world is huge and there`s plenty to explore so replay value 
 is very high. Despise is little flaws the game is awesome.
  If you love games of passience and thinking you`ll love king`s bounty for is huge world and dificult 
 battles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scholaar
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  This is how HOMM V should have been, a very very brilliant remake of a game that invented its own 
 genre. It will make you want to play just a bit more, do just one more battle and when it's done, 
 you'll pick another character and replay and to top it off, the dialogues are great too. The graphics 
 can be too colorful for some, however it goes to show that how much effort has been put into this 
 game. Apart from the rare crashes when saving I didn't come across any bugs, well there was this 
 one when I fell off the floating island and ran round in lava but hey :) As for sound, all the 
 effects and troop sounds are detailed down to the hyena's laughter (annoying as hell) and the slush 
 and plop of the alchemist's back flask. The music although repetitive doesn't bother you much even 
 after 100+ hours in the game I still haven't completely muted it. I just wish it had a random map 
 generator and multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: albertbolivar
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 30, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is alright if you have nothing else to do, no other game to play, or are awaiting the 
 magical release of an actually GOOD game for a change!
  
  It's a fine revival of a classic genre for those of you that enjoy turn based games.
  
  The 
 graphics are very bright and colorful. Perhaps a bit too colorful! It reminds me of the way my 
 son splashes color all over his drawings without any sense of depth, composition or clue on how 
 to use colors. I actually had to turn my contrast down on my monitor to not get a headache from 
 the melange of brightly lit, poorly coordinated coloring. I guess this is what happens when game 
 companies hire people just out of art school to save some cash and not feel guilty when they lay 
 them off after a game is finished!
  
  This is not my favorite genre or game-type. But if you were into the classic version, you're sure 
 to enjoy this one. I've already removed it from my hard drive and will see if I can get my money 
 back! I'll just say I thought it was for MAC... sigh* It's not like the people behind the store 
 desks know anything to argue with me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Natuo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  First of all, HoMM 2 was among my first TBS games back in the 90's. Since then I followed every 
 HoMM series (except the first one and the fourth one) .
  
  When I first heard of King's Bounty: The Legend, I thought it as HoMM clone but with real time 
 adventure map. Not until I did research about it and found out that the original KB (1990) inspired 
 the very existence of HoMM series (started in 1995) , even though Might and Magic (the RPG adventure 
 game, started in 1986) existed long before that.
  
  It's unjustified to call KB: TL as HoMM clone, since this is a revival of the original classic that 
 spawn it all. Just like Dune 2 (1992) as the great grandfather of RTS. Nonetheless, Katauri effort 
 in reviving a classic is worth a praise. Now let's get into the review shall we?
  
  The graphic in this game is amazingly beautiful. The details of creating a living environment is 
 noteworthy, from the skeletal mess on the wall that fort to live trying to grab you during your 
 training against a necromancer, to red squirrel climbing a pine tree and leap to another in Kordar 
 wilderness. While this happen in adventure mode, details and eye candy in battle mode isn't neglected. 
 The scale, the atmosphere of the blend quite well.
  
  The real time aspect in adventure mode may be a turn off for those who new to KB (the original 
 had real time too in this mode) , with their first experience of the game stumbling or being chased 
 by stronger mob. You could in fact pause the game with space while taking your time examining the 
 environment. Eventually, you'll get used to it. The battle mode is pretty much the same as HoMM. 
 You get Rage points in addition to the usual Mana points. Rage is basically summon spell that can 
 change the tide of battle. This is quite useful for Warrior class who spend more of it's skill 
 on Might skill tree (Rage use this) .
  
  The storyline and dialogues may not be the strong point, but I can tolerate it. If you confuse 
 about the main story, you just need to look up on your objectives screen and look up at the crown 
 icon. That is your main quest. Doing side quests yield benefit rewards as mobs in next continent 
 will get progressively harder. As most players found it rather hard rushing the game rather than 
 leveling up more by clearing the last continent before moving to another.
  
  The minus of this point is the lack of multiplayer, hotseat even custom scenario options. This 
 game is designed to be single player only, unless Katauri will add those in their next patch/expansion. 
 Bugs are there but quite minor and doesn't hamper gameplay experience at all.
  
  In my view, Katauri has done excellent remake of the game. Newcomer like me thoroughly enjoying 
 this, as hopefully those who familiar with the original will.
  If you like or looking for an alternative to HoMM and Disciples, you should give this game a try. 
 Even though it may not look perfect, but it's a beautiful game so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acidbite
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  King's Bounty is a fun and very colorful game, but offers same time depending on difficulty level 
 very challenging and tactical gameplay. Moving around on the map with your hero is all real-time 
 but the battles are all turn-based wich give the game a very nice tactical effect. There are three 
 classes, Warrior, Paladin and Mage. Every class has basically thier own talent tree but you can 
 buy talent points from any talent tree you like. The hero gains levels and collects artifacts while 
 you quest around and fight monsters. You can also marry with a wife and have kids wich give you 
 benefits on thier own. The hero has leadership points wich shows how much units you can have in 
 your army at once. Leadership points can be increased by leveling up or collecting banners on the 
 map. Units can be bought and collected aka you pick up a spider egg somewhere and grow spiders 
 from the egg to fight for you. There are many interesting and funny quests to do wich reward you 
 money, exp, artifacts, magic scrolls or runes and so on. The game contains also boss fights, example 
 a huge turtle the size of half the battlefield with lots of health points. There is also an interesting 
 power called Spirits of Rage wich the hero gets his hands on after completeing few main storyline 
 quests at the start of the game. It's a chest where are four powerful demons inside who fight for 
 you if you earn thier trust by completing a errand for them first. Those demons have thier own 
 levels to level up as you use them in the fights and recive new abilities for you to use. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Vali_
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 29, 2008 1:15 am PT
Review:  I've been playing it for just 2 days ( about 15-20 hours ... it's addictive ! ) and I'm definitely 
 hooked.
  
  Considering myself one of the biggest fans of the Heroes series, I can still say this game can 
 teach Ubisoft a lesson in how to create a classical RPG / TBS and generally a medieval fantasy 
 atmosphere. 
  
  The coloring is not screaming at you as in Heroes 5 (a 3D, children's variation on Heroes 3 from 
 a graphical point of view) and the 3D graphics don't get in the way of the game play (like in the 
 above mentioned example) but actually manage to contribute and justify the technological advance.
 
  
  But enough about past disappointments and on to this great game; the world in King's Bounty seems 
 huge (and I for one hope it never ends ...) . The variety of the in game characters and the many 
 innovations like the rune based skill learning combined with classical experience level-upping, 
 showing you that getting married can sometimes be useful (it's a game after all :P) , balloon rides, 
 boat trips (train ? I didn't get so far ...) and the sheer variety of quests ... all of this makes 
 it the best game I've played since Heroes 3 and Evil Islands...
  
  Also I must mention the RPG mode that is surprisingly to my taste, since I'm a declared TBS fan; 
 also the TBS battles ( TBB ? ) feature is a major contributor since I really got tired of the classical 
 Diablo slashing and hacking left and right until my hand and mouse fall to pieces !
  
  Ok ... if you've read this you can say 2 things about me: I'm obviously at my first review and 
 ... English is not my strong point; but I can definitely say one thing about you ... You lost a 
 lot of game time! Get to it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cantrips
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  As a huge fan of the original DOS version of King's Bounty (which I still play regularly!) , a Heroes 
 of Might and Magic enthusiast, and a skeptic to boot, let's just say I had extremely high hopes 
 for this game. Anything less than perfect, and I would consider it an absolute disaster.
  
  Needless to say, I am absolutely thrilled by how this turned out. I never write game reviews, but 
 this game inspired me to write one, because I want you to know how great it is!!!
  
  The original game-play mechanics are still there (leadership, turn-based battles) , but the graphics 
 are absolutely incredible and the game is even more addictive that I would have thought possible.
 
  
  This game has the makings of an instant classic. It plays exactly like HoMM (in fact, the original 
 was a precursor to that series) , but with more seamless game-play between the world and battle 
 screens, and greater re-playability.
  
  Anyway... pick up a copy and I guarantee you will be happy with this game! If you're not, I'll buy 
 it off you just to support these guys! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chunyu19
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 28, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  The background of the game is as simple as it can, the player is a student and have to pass a training 
 test to become ..... simple? naive?
  
  The Turn Base fighting system is something like a special features in the game (when all other 
 RPG games are using real time fighting) . However, there are only something like stones, trees (not 
 for hiding but just blocking the way) and traps on the battle field, but no level difference, no 
 special tactics, just hand to hand fighting and magic. The loading time is acceptable, but it is 
 still wasting time when compare to real time fighting.
  
  The quests (I had solved more than TEN quests until now) seem nothing special, and there seems 
 no MAIN STORY, but to solve the quests the NPCs gave you. The first one is TAX collector from the 
 KING, where you have to walk around picking up the TAX and kill the robbers. You have to mind your 
 every steps as there are so many things you can pick up along the Road. It makes me think that 
 I am playing a game for kids.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: norabbitnofun
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  I played Heroes of Might and Magic a great deal and I loved it. To date, I probably have played 
 it just a little too much, but when I picked this game up, I had not played it in at least a year.
 
  
  Just like others say, this game is exactly Heroes of Might and Magic, but with real-time on the 
 main map. This means that you have a hero, he is moved around in real-time and there are monsters 
 that lurk around a given anchor point until you come in range. Your hero gathers experience by 
 defeating enemies through his troops battling in turn-based fashion.
  The other difference as far as I am concerned with HoMM is that enemies tend to cast "fear" a great 
 deal and... well the result is that you are forced to sit back and see your troops auto-play. This 
 really takes the strategic fun out of your hands.
  
  So as far as I am concerned, this is not a game for me. If you are really, really, *really* dying 
 for an HoMM clone and have played every map anyone has ever edited, go ahead and buy this. Otherwise 
 either acquire HoMM V or do something else with your precious money. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iron_zealot7531
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 28, 2008 6:52 am PT
Review:  As I write this I am downloading the full game from Atari. It is now 8:44 AM and I didn't get a 
 minute of sleep last night. Why? Because, unfortunately for my social life, I discovered the King's 
 Bounty demo and haven't left my chair in nearly 8 hours.
  
  As a fan of old school roleplaying and the HOMM series, this is just what I have been looking for. 
 It perfectly captures the old school charm, and even introduces some final fantasy elements into 
 the action.
  
  This game is mislabeled as a turn based strategy game, but don't be fooled this is an old-school 
 RPG in the purest sense. There is so much to do and explore and, unlike Oblivion, everything you 
 do is engaging and fun.
  
  This game is difficult and not for the faint of heart, but if you're a veteran of this type of 
 game you will feel right at home.
  
  I'd write more, but the game has just finished downloading.
  
  Buy It! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Larenel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Ok, here's the bottom line: I downloaded the Demo thinking it would be a momentary diversion and 
 4 hours later I'm compulsively exploring every nook and cranny; I couldn't put the thing down. 
 Next thing you know, I'm downloading the full version direct from ATARI, despite it not being slated 
 for release in the UK for at least another month! 
  
  If you experienced the slightest enjoyment from playing the HoMM series then this presses all the 
 right buttons and plenty of others besides. The guys at Katauri deserve huge credit for preserving 
 and actually enhancing a piece of classic gameplay. This is clearly a labour of love from a team 
 who totally know what they're doing. Well done guys, I'm a fan! 
  
  What do I like most? I guess it must be the fact that they've created an utterly fascinating landscape 
 packed with layers of content and unexpected discoveries. Not that any of this is particularly 
 original although, oddly enough, that is a key part of its charm. 
  
  I'd give it '10' but then I'd obviously be getting no sleep at all!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reginleif
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 27, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  I still play the original KB from time to time, using DOSbox. Yeah, I loved it THAT MUCH. I played 
 it to death when it originally came out years ago, so I was looking forward to this remake wit 
 great anticipation. I picked up the demo when it was first released and played for hours. I like 
 the way it sends you through "training missions" at first to get a feel for the game. Then you're 
 sent out into the world which is lush and colorful and quite pleasing to look at. From then on, 
 it seems like the original KB with better graphics... which is a good thing. If it ain't broke, 
 don't fix it, right?
  
  Well, unfortunately, the first thing you notice when you're getting your training missions at the 
 beginning is that the story and dialogue suffered in translation. Ther are awkward turns of phrase, 
 and even typos present. I thought to myself, hopefully, "This is just a demo, when the full game 
 comes out, they'll have fixed it." Sadly, I was too optimistic. Nothing has been fixed in that 
 area. If that sort of thing bugs you, it'll nag at you as you play. If it doesn't, you're likely 
 to have a wonderful time.
  
  As it stands now, I think I will reload Disciples II into my gaming rig, and eagerly await the 
 release of Disciples III in Q1 2009. Even though it appears it's not going to be released by Strategy 
 First, I'll keep my fingers crossed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyuRanVII
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  I just played the demo, but it's very long and shows exactly how the game works.
  
  The graphics are fine, very clean and colorful, a little better than Heroes of Might and Magic 
 V. There're a lot of very nice animations for both characters and spells.
  
  King's Bounty is a RPG, not a turn-based strategy game. The combat system is just the same as Heroes 
 of Might and Magic, but there're treasures and traps on the battlefield. The exploration system 
 is the same too, you walk throgh the map looking for a lot of cool itens and bonuses, but in real 
 time! You can get quests, go anywhere you want, battle foes, look for adventures any way you want.
 
  
  The quests are very fun, not boring ones like in Oblivion. There're some tasks with multiple resolutions, 
 like the memorable Zombie in The Mill.
  
  Music and sound effects are as good as the rest of the game.
  
  If you like a great old-school 
 RPG, buy it! It's the best one in years !!!!!!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
