-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Kingdom Under Fire: A War of Heroes
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/kingdomunderfireawoh/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 18, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 6.2, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 123 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Gathering
Developer: Phantagram
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Jan 18, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Flaws in the computer's artificial intelligence, the lack of a convenient save feature, and an overall 
 lack of originality all serve to drastically weaken the game. 

 The real-time strategy genre is highly competitive - such games must do a lot to distinguish themselves 
 from one another to succeed. However, Kingdom Under Fire by Korean developer Phantagram doesn't 
 do much to distinguish itself, except in that all the units in the game earn experience levels 
 and get more powerful as they win battles. Drawing a comparison between Kingdom Under Fire and 
 many other similar games isn't hard to do. In fact, Kingdom Under Fire seems like the result of 
 what would happen if every game released by Blizzard Entertainment in the last five years were 
 blended together. It has many similarities to Blizzard's real-time strategy games Warcraft II and 
 Starcraft, as well as the action-packed role-playing game, Diablo - so much so that it's apparent 
 the designers of Kingdom Under Fire played and enjoyed all these games. Kingdom Under Fire has 
 its own interesting story, numerous units available for two different playable sides, and plenty 
 of missions to keep you busy. But flaws in the computer's artificial intelligence, the lack of 
 a convenient save feature, and an overall lack of originality all serve to drastically weaken the 
 game.           Click for full size image    

 Like Warcraft II, the more recent Warlords Battlecry, and countless other games, Kingdom Under Fire 
 is mostly a conventional 2D fantasy-themed real-time strategy game. You'll have to gather different 
 resources and build structures with your workers, train an army of mixed forces, research some 
 upgrades, and then attack and destroy your enemies. The game takes place in a fantasy kingdom called 
 Bersiah, where a great war was fought between the forces of light and dark a hundred years ago. 
 The legendary Knights of Xok defeated the evil, and Bersiah was restored to peace and prosperity. 
 But now, another war is brewing in Bersiah: Orcs are attacking settlements, and humans are in a 
 conflict over who will take the throne of the most powerful nation, Azillia. Meanwhile, a being 
 named Rick Blood unites the forces of darkness into the Dark Legion and begins a full invasion 
 of the land.   

  The 2D graphics in the game are done fairly well, although they aren't outstanding. Kingdom Under 
 Fire's gigantic flying units are rather impressive, especially the dragons. Though the unit animations 
 are only mediocre, the shadows that the units cast are pretty convincing, and some of the special 
 effects are good. Otherwise, the human structures are bland, and distinguishing them from one another 
 can be confusing, though the Dark Legion buildings tend to be more interesting. The sounds in the 
 game aren't that great, either. Some of the voices are done well, but most are disappointing or 
 even embarrassing. When you click on the units or give them an order, most of them have repetitive 
 acknowledgement remarks. The music is the only redeeming aspect to the game's sound: It is a well-done 
 score, complete with vocals, and it fits the atmosphere of the game for both sides.           Click 
 for full size image    

 Kingdom Under Fire does a good job of telling the story from each side in between each mission - 
 it uses first-person narration by some of the game's main characters. You can play as both sides: 
 the forces of light, which include humans, dwarves, and elves; or the forces of dark, which consist 
 of orcs, ogres, undead, and other creatures. The two forces have different types of units, although 
 their functions are relatively equal. Both sides have a basic grunt, ranged, flying, and spellcasting 
 units. There are also powerful hero characters on each side. Most of these heroes are crucial to 
 the mission, so if they die, you have to start over.   

  All units in the game gain experience for killing other units or buildings (including their own!) 
 or by healing friendly units. With every level they gain, they become stronger and more proficient 
 in combat. Higher-level units can be distinguished from lower-level units by the different colored 
 circles that appear when they're selected. Unfortunately, combat can be devastating to these and 
 all your forces, since units die relatively quickly and easily, regardless of their level. A hero 
 unit can usually dispatch wave after wave of basic infantry, which is why heroes are vital to your 
 army, especially since their experience earned in previous missions carries over to the next ones. 
 So while it's possible to win missions by wearing down enemy heroes with countless troops, you'll 
 probably end up using your heroes to do most of the damage; of course, risking your heroes can 
 be dangerous since you can't let them die, especially since the game doesn't let you save your 
 progress during a mission. Spending a couple of hours pressing into an enemy base, only to have 
 your hero die, can be a serious letdown. Because the missions in Kingdom Under Fire can be so unforgiving, 
 it's most suitable for veterans of similar real-time strategy games.    

 Both campaigns have 13 missions each: ten real-time strategy and three role-playing, in which you 
 control a hero character through a dungeon crawl, much like in Blizzard's Diablo games. The two 
 different campaigns take place during the same time period, and this is reflected in the missions. 
 For example, the first human mission takes place in exactly the same location as the first Dark 
 Legion mission - the only difference is the perspective. While not every mission is the same on 
 both sides, they do tie together in the end.   

  The role-playing missions can help your hero improve his chances of survival. Not only do they 
 help raise the hero's levels, but they also give your hero a chance to equip himself with better 
 items for improving his stats. However, if it weren't for the incentive in finding these items, 
 you'd most likely try to complete these role-playing missions as quickly as possible, because they 
 simply aren't very fun. The small, isometric 2D graphics and the mouse-driven controls are very 
 similar to those in Blizzard's Diablo games, but their implementation in Kingdom Under Fire is 
 rather mundane compared with Diablo. Unlike in the strategy missions, the view in the role-playing 
 missions is locked on the character so that you can't scroll the screen to help find areas you 
 missed. Some missions give you more than one hero to work with, so when both are selected, one 
 of them may be off the screen. This can prove deadly, because if you aren't watching the other 
 character's health, he may die without your even noticing.   

  Throughout the game, the computer opponent's artificial intelligence is nothing spectacular, and 
 it can easily be anticipated. During the strategy missions, the computer will randomly send out 
 strikes against your base, but due to the defensive nature of most maps, it's easy to set up ambushes 
 at choke points. The computer is less predictable with its use of flying units, which can attack 
 from any direction. Unfortunately, you'll quickly discover that the unit pathfinding is terrible. 
 Your units will not move out of the way for each other, which will lead to clogged pathways and 
 frustrating battles. Navigating the maps is even worse because half of a group will often get stuck 
 in turns, due to the twisting layout. This can be devastating when you're depending on a group 
 of archers for reinforcements, or even worse when an enemy patrol picks off the stragglers when 
 you're not looking. Although a patch is available that allegedly addresses problems with both the 
 computer AI and the pathfinding, the patch makes only marginal improvements.   

  The game's other problems are mostly a direct consequence of its focus on powerful hero characters. 
 Later in the campaigns, ground troops become almost worthless because a single hero with a group 
 of healers and ranged units for backup will be able to demolish almost any enemy encampment in 
 its way. Because of this, there really isn't much use for resources later on in a match, though 
 early on, you'll them to build up a base and defenses. But later, you could just use your money 
 to train up a bunch of weak warriors and have your heroes kill them off to gain more experience. 
   

  In addition to the lack of a save feature during missions, what makes the game so long and frustrating 
 to play is the sheer amount of micromanagement that it demands from you. Idle workers can be hard 
 to find since they blend in with the buildings. You can place only 20 units in a group, which won't 
 last long by itself. Troops also like to wander off from each other. You can order them to hold 
 position, but this causes some of them to simply not do anything. Target acquisition is pretty 
 slow as well, which makes the gameplay seem sluggish. Unit formations don't work correctly, either. 
 Every group can have an assigned leader, who then has an option to set group formations. However, 
 when you try to move the group, it will remain scattered.   

  The game does offer a skirmish mode and multiplayer capabilities, and both skirmish and multiplayer 
 strategies are very different from the campaigns. Since you have no heroes when you start in these 
 modes, you'll actually have to rely on your basic units. Unfortunately, in a skirmish, the computer 
 opponents tend to team up against you, which diminishes your chances of success. If computer opponents 
 prove too tough or too predictable, you can also log onto Phantagram's Wargate service to find 
 other players to play against.   

  A few years ago, Kingdom Under Fire may have been less disappointing - but since so many innovative 
 and impressive real-time strategy games were released in the last year, it will probably be very 
 tedious for anyone who doesn't still prefer older games in the genre. Die-hard real-time strategy 
 fans may find something to like in Kingdom Under Fire, but everyone else might as well keep waiting 
 for Blizzard's next big hit.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: picklessmulan
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 15, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  This game was a suprise for me had seen a lot o reviews that said it was a really bad game so ididnt 
 expect much when i started playing it! Ok its not like its the best game in the world but it got 
 some stuff that are good and some that are not so good but the whole is right above the average 
 games. The gameplay that got the lowest score on my review is not bad but its not really good either. 
 In the rts mments its ok .But its in the rpg moents that it can get anoying with all the clicking 
 and so on. Graphics i think is very good the cut scenes are beautiful and the rest is also good. 
 The sound is good the voices are very good but the rest of the sound can get little anoying but 
 the in the whole the sound is good. You can play as either the good guys ore the bad guys and that 
 is funny and makes the game fun to play again after you finished it with one side you can play 
 it again as the other side so the value is very good you can also choose from to levels easy or 
 normal. So what do i really think of the game. Its not a revolution but its not so bad that the 
 pro reviewrs says. I think its a good game and it would have been even greater withj alittle better 
 gameplay. but i recomend you to play it sometimes i could stop playing it. So play it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FuturoCumbe
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 31, 2006 11:33 pm PT
Review:  not for begginners
  1players vs 4cpu jo jo jo jo jo jo jo jo jo
  ju ju ju ju
  
  graphics are great
  sound . . . . . . . . . . . . (Y)
  i want 69706 more maps
  
  i wating 
 for another Kindom Under Fire
  FOR PC
  what do you think my brot ?
  
  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
  
  . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .
  
  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razor_bblade
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 29, 2006 5:38 am PT
Review:  I am a pretty big fan of strategy games and this game of course proved that the genre had lost 
 none of its classical gameplay. KUF is not exactly the greatest strategy game on the market but 
 it is definately an underated game and is worth some of a gamers time.
  
  The gameplay is the same as every other strategy war game out there build a camp, and destroy the 
 enemy but of course there is a story mixed up in the fray of war. The basic gameplay takes many 
 of its features from LOTR such as orcs and ogres and the like also there is some sexy elves in 
 there (they arnt really my taste but you know) . The story is based 50 years after a great war dubbed 
 the war of heroes and in the two seperate campains it tells of how the lands of bersia are once 
 again divided into a second war of heroes.
  
  The graphics are not very good for a strategy game as there is a lot of flaws but nothing to wreck 
 a great experience. The best feature of this game is the sound as it adds to a great experience 
 with a mixture of egyptian style war tunes.
  
  The game is definately worth a rent or if you can wait get the gold addition it improves and brings 
 the game even over a score of 9.5 it is that damn good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lyten
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 9, 2006 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Unless you are those gamers who need to have awesome graphics and great story, then this game isn't 
 for you. However if you don't mind 2d sprite of good Ol' days of 80s to early 90s with a balanced 
 gameplay, with fantasy back drop then you are right at home.
  
  The game plays lot like Warcraft 2 ,but with a slight better graphics than Starcraft. I would like 
 to add that the game feels and plays completely like Blizzard formula game, and since i enjoyed 
 all of the Blizzard's game, i embrace this like it's Blizzard's own.
  
  I would like to compare this game to warcraft series from 2 to 3 and help people to understand 
 the game to it's core
  
  Leveling 
  warcraft 2 no units leveled 
  warcraft 3 Heroes leveled
  KUF almost every unit leveled.
  
  I think this is where KUF excelled 
 compared to WC, since most of the units leveled up, it made me care about every unit i had. leveling 
 in KUF help unit's get more health, mana, strengh, and sometimes range of attack. For example: 
 In KUF there is a unit in Human side called the Elven Archer,
  since Elven Archers have slow attack rate but long range ( think siege tank, but minus the siege 
 mode and hitpoints) regular archers would crush them. However if you leveled the Elven Archer enough 
 they would shoot farther and faster with more health on thier side. This leveling systhem in KUF 
 made it more dynamic for you to care to have this unit live longer.
  
  KUF is the winner for leveling system.
  
  Heroes
  warcraft 2 only in campaign
  warcraft 
 3 both multiplayer and single player mode
  KUF both multiplayer and single player mode
  
  It would seem to be a tie in this section with WC3 and KUF, since heroes in these 2 games matter 
 alot. However the formula is different from the 2 games. In Kuf 's hero are a high tech units that 
 can only be sommoned after getting most of the structures, so you have to get them really late 
 in the game. In Warcraft 3's hero can gain level which will yield new move, more health, mana, 
 strengh, agility, armor, etc. while KUF's hero in multiplayer start with all thier moves, and start 
 thier level from 18 to 25. Imagine someone starting with level 10 Blademaster with all his moves 
 but also could gain more level while getting more health, mana, agility, etc. Heroes in KUF is 
 also different in that once you lose them they are gone for good for that match. 
  
  Personal preferrence from KUF or WC 3
  
  Factions
  warcraft 2 2 factions
  warcraft 3 4 
 factions
  KUF 2 factions
  
  I would have to give this to warcraft 3, since 4 faction in warcraft 3 are balanced but different. 
 While KUF only has 2 factions to play with, the 2 factions do play differently. Human side has 
 your typical humans of course, elves, and dwarves. Devil side has demons, undead, darkelf, vampires, 
 orcs, ogre, and so on.
  
  WC 3 is the winner for Factions
  
  Story
  warcraft 2
  warcraft 3
  KUF
  
  The story is pretty much the same old D and D type of setting, but since 
 KUF was made in S. Korea the translation is bit off and localization was just a mess. I think it 
 would have been a interesting story in that there were twist and turn but nothing like WC 3. 
 
  
  WC 2 abd 3 wins for the story, since the tranlation was just awful for KUF.
  
  My final thought 
  While KUF was made after warcraft 2 and before warcraft 3, i think you can 
 enjoy this game for it's time and what it's worth. I could have compared lot more, but i think 
 i gave some general information for people to get the understanding of this game. Lot of people 
 critalize this game to be nothing more then warcraft 2.5, i honesly think it did really well for 
 what it's worth. I hear you can buy this game for $9.00 usd now-a-days, so it isn't that bad of 
 a price to play a slightly different game. 
  
  ALSO DON'T FORGET TO PATCH THIS GAME TO 1.205, which will add 4 sub heroes to the multiplayer, 
 adds ingame save function for single player, 1 new campaign for each faction, new maps for multiplayer, 
 and no cd required to play the game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: link277
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 4, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Its the best game ever i still think its better than kingdom under fire heroes and the crusaders 
 i like real time strategy games more than any other genre i nearly clocked kingdom under fire then 
 it was the apocalypse i went to bed and the next morning i tried playing it it was scratched! i 
 screamed (cried) it is a good game to cry about it is worth it you guys should play it it is superb 
 i won against the orcs then i died the next mission i think orcs are the hard race to be but there 
 ok 
::::::

::::::
UserName: switchadz
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2005 9:24 am PT
Review:  its a very good game that u can play for hours on end with out gettin bored its a good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good goodgoodgood gameand its not that hard to get 
 its a very easy game to get its revalutionary game so go out and i mean go out and buy it now i 
 orded mine on ebay 3 and its awesome its so good that if i was u i would go to pc world and buy 
 it now its a round about game where u can be good and evill its just so good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nealok
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 7, 2005 12:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is a mess. The only thing good about it is that it gives me confidence that some day 
 I, too, can spew poo from my mind and eventually slither onto a game development team. 
  
  If you want Diablo, play Diablo or Dungeon Siege. 
  
  If you want Warcraft, play Warcraft or 
 some other excellent RTS. 
  
  If you want to blend those two, play SOME game, but avoid this one at all costs. It is a derivative 
 homage to Blizzard's computer hits, but for all its imitative elements, it manages to sacrifice 
 every vestige of fun from any game any company has ever done. Ever. From the slooooooooooow action 
 pacing to the inane writing to the laughable production elements from every other angle, this game 
 makes a mockery of what it means for a game developer to be inspired by one of its peers. 
  
  The graphics are OKAY, in light of the rest of the game being a steaming heap of rancid guano. 
 If you absolutely must, must, MUST play another fantasy style game RIGHT NOW... no. Even then, 
 I can't think of a reason to recommend this over any game. It's terrible. 
  
  On a related note, I have a lovely coaster to trade anyone who wants it. This thing is stinking 
 up my CD binder. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
