-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: King's Quest: Mask of Eternity
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/kingsquestmaskofeternity/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 29, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 7.1, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 296 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Genre: Adventure
Date:     1998
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A vast, sprawling experiment that, while falling short of its goal, is enjoyable and noteworthy 
 nonetheless. 

 King's Quest: Mask of Eternity, the latest in the venerable series from Sierra On-Line, is a noble 
 effort, an adventure inside an RPG wrapped in an action game. From every angle, this game is a 
 vast, sprawling experiment that, while falling short of its goal to be all things to all players, 
 is enjoyable and noteworthy nonetheless.  

 I won't go into the details about the storyline, except to say that the fundamental premise is to 
 retrieve five pieces of a mask, reassemble them, and, in the process, defeat the forces of evil. 
 Pretty straightforward, really, and slightly disappointing for those of us hoping for a more plot-driven 
 adventure. Nonetheless, recovery of the mask requires a journey across great spans of space and 
 time, through strange realms that are home to bizarre creatures and unusual characters. There's 
 definitely an epic feel to the game, permeating and penetrating throughout, and somehow making 
 all the searching, and fighting, and dying worthwhile.  

 Yes, dying. While its gameplay and graphics are clearly intended to compete with the likes of contemporary 
 releases like Tomb Raider, the spirit of Mask of Eternity is much more ancient, closer to now-distant 
 adventures like Zork or even Sierra's Mystery House. Which is to say - for those of you who were 
 spared the primal days of computer gaming - that it's cruel and unforgiving and occasionally borders 
 on the sadistic. Death awaits literally at every turn: drink the wrong potion, step in the wrong 
 direction, pick the wrong camera angle (more on that later) , and you'll find yourself on your knees, 
 gasping for breath, and finding none.  

 Not that dying is all you'll be doing in Mask of Eternity. You'll be doing your fair share of killing 
 as well. Almost everything that moves is fair game, and as the game progresses, you'll find that 
 you have a variety of weapons at your disposal with which to dispatch your enemies. Combat is a 
 rather rudimentary affair - there is no defensive component and attacking involves little more 
 than clicking the mouse at regular intervals - but it adds an element of excitement and - if I 
 can say it without sounding too ironic - "life" to the game in the sense that you must respond 
 in real time to the challenge at hand. Combat is also important because with each victory, your 
 character gains strength and skill (this is the game's RPG element) , both of which are necessary 
 to have more than a prayer against the later bosses in the game.  

 But as significant as combat is in Mask of Eternity, the balance of the game is spent using your 
 head, not your sword. There are literally hundreds of puzzles to be solved, ranging from the relatively 
 simple to the fiendishly complex. Many are "means" puzzles - you know exactly what you're supposed 
 to do, and the problem is figuring out how to do it - while others involve the manipulation/combination 
 of objects resulting in unexpected but favorable consequences. While one could argue that some 
 of the puzzles are too tough or too obscure for the typical player, they are certainly consistent 
 with those of previous King's Quest games and Sierra adventures in general, a fact that will no 
 doubt please many old-school adventure gamers who have long protested the dumbing down of their 
 favorite genre in recent years.  

 What may not please these hard-core adventurers is the heavy use of action-oriented puzzles throughout 
 Mask of Eternity. Many sections of the game require more than a little dexterity to complete, and 
 some - particularly those that involve a series of sequential jumps - may even have console gamers 
 pulling out their hair. As mentioned previously, the frustration level in the action-oriented sequences 
 in the game never quite gets to the point of no return, but it does come close at times. This is 
 unfortunate, because in many cases, the problem isn't with the design of the sequences themselves, 
 but rather with your own inability to position the camera with a satisfactory view of the action. 

 That's right, the player controls the camera in Mask of Eternity. You can choose from either first-person 
 or third-person perspectives, and your choice matters, as in some cases, you can only advance if 
 you select the proper view. In addition, when in the third-person perspective, you have total control 
 over the angle and height of the camera and can change it almost at will. The upside is that if 
 you find your view blocked by a tree or obscured by an enemy, you can quickly shift the perspective 
 to something more useful. The downside is that you must do so to complete the game. By putting 
 the control in the player's hands, the designers essentially washed their own of any responsibility 
 for an "intelligent" camera, and if you don't take command, you will quickly fall prey to its stupidity. 
 While offering control over the camera is a great boon for players, requiring them to master it 
 is not. It's somewhat akin to having to edit a movie when all you want to do is watch it.  

 Otherwise, the graphics engine is very solid, fast, and often impressive when used with a 3D accelerator 
 (the software-only renderer is far less attractive) . It handles outdoor and indoor scenes equally 
 well and, when combined with the very detailed character animations, offers a believable depiction 
 of the world it portrays. The only real problem with the graphics lies in the details: There's 
 a certain sense of barrenness throughout the game, and long stretches of look-alike terrain are 
 common. You also see some rather pronounced pop-up in the more complex areas, which is a little 
 distracting. And then there are the load times, which can last up to two or three minutes between 
 realms - which is simply too long.  

 Fortunately, there's enough going on in the audio department to make up for any graphical missteps. 
 Mask of Eternity has a lush, orchestral soundtrack that greatly enhances the gaming experience. 
 The dialog, while occasionally campy in its presentation, is well written and generally well read. 
 And the sound effects are uniformly excellent.  

 As you can see, Mask of Eternity is really a game of contrasts, a game that takes two steps forward, 
 but just as quickly takes another step back. Its gameplay is enjoyable, but occasionally maddening. 
 Its combat system is welcome, but too simple. Its camera control system is advanced, but almost 
 to a fault. Its design attempts to attract all players, but in doing so, may just as easily alienate 
 them.  

 In the final analysis, the most important thing about Mask of Eternity is that even with all its 
 faults, it's a fun game to play. It's recommended to those who want something out of the ordinary, 
 and who can appreciate a grand and ambitious effort. And Sierra should be applauded for trying 
 something new, even if its reach somewhat exceeds its grasp.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mrjawsbiteme
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 12, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  Mask of Eternity is one of the best games out on the PC ever. Its a huge, vast game that even the 
 people who don't like RPGs will enjoy. You play a man by the name of Connor. The basic story goes 
 is that the Mask of Eternity has been shattered and the one who did the mess must find the pieces 
 and destroy the once and for all. Your task is to retrieve them and save everyone from death. You 
 travel through 6 levels or so, which have multiple things for you to do, including some difficult 
 puzzles. You fight multiple enemies, who all have their own characteristics. Each enemy is different 
 in their own way. The game is engaging. You'll find yourself wanting more and more and before you 
 know it, you'll have spent over 4-6 hours playing it. You get a good assortment of weapons, each 
 better than the other. Armor as well. At the end of each environment, you travel on a portal, which 
 looks like a spinning sun. These portals help you travel from each enviroment. Like 'Oblivion', 
 there are multiple things for you to do. So, there is some variety in the game. The graphics look 
 childish now, but they looked great back then. Audio still sounds great. Everything sounds like 
 it should. This is one of my favorite games and if you still own a windows 98 or 95, pick it up 
 on Amazon. com and have the time of your life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruttness
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 3, 2007 3:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun. I just found all my old PC games and just beat this. It's got an ok story. The 
 graphics aren't too special and the sound is kind of creepy. This game used to scare the crap out 
 of me. I remember that much. It's also a really difficult game. Even now, some places took me forever 
 to beat. And that gets very very annoying. In fact, I would get very pissed sometimes and it got 
 really old being stumped. This game is very weird and creepy. It's not really scary but it's just 
 weirdly strangely sickeningly freaky. It was an ok game to play but nothing special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tim_Q
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 26, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  When I was younger, my dad got this game. We spent months together completing it. I loved every 
 minute of it. Now in this present day, I came back to it, and I'm still loving it.
  
  This review will be to present standars.
  
  Graphics: This game now looks like **** Seriously, 
 the playstation has better graphics, but, the framerate is solid, and the world is large and expansive.
 
  
  Gameplay: This is your typical dungeon crawler, where you click repeatidly on the enemy to kill 
 it. However, this is somehow crazy fun. I can't descirbe it, but I just love it! The camera takes 
 a while to get used to, because you use the right mouse button to control it, now the actual mouse 
 itself. However, after about half an hour, I got used to it, and was totally fine with it. However, 
 the one thing I never liked about it was the platforming. It's VERY difficult to jump from place 
 to place. Which gets me to the puzzles. There are MANY of them, and it's VERY fun to solve them. 
 Although some took me HOURS to complete. This game is very hard, no doubt. But not because of enemies 
 or bosses. . .well maybe bosses. But because even if you fall ten feet, you die. It's rediculous. 
 And you better save often, but sometimes you won't even know theres a drop large enough to kill 
 you.
  
  Sound: The sound is great, I love the sound of the skeletons diing, the bones dropping to the ground 
 and rattling is great. The music is epic and varies greatly.
  
  This game takes a very long time to beat, even after your first time. And on the first play, it 
 will takes weeks to beat because of the degree of toughness the puzzles bring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SBF9304
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 24, 2006 2:47 pm PT
Review:  While Mask of Eternity might not have the best graphics or be the best game, its the type of game 
 that you'll really never forget about.
  
  I got it in Summer 2002 and played it a few times that year. But afterwards I only played it at 
 least once every year, but yet at the same time; December. There's something about this game that 
 will grow on you. It might the fact that you get to visit 7 different worlds and interact with 
 7 different types of people/creatures. From hometown Daventry, to the abyss, to the swamp, to an 
 underground mine, and other lands the creatures/people are very interesting and may even make you 
 feel your in the game itself.
  
  Some minor drawbacks are that some of the puzzles are either too hard or too easy. And then there 
 are some parts of the game that are impossible, but then again the game actually lets you save 
 whenever you feel like.
  
  The best thing about the game is that save feature. Other good things is the fact that the voices 
 are very good and almost real (especially since this game came out in 1998) and the music is pretty 
 decent.
  
  Average gameplay first time through could be 30-40 hours. After getting the hang of it, it'll be 
 more like 25 hours.
  
  If you can get this game whole for $10 or less don't pass it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ValiantDarkness
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 12, 2006 8:42 pm PT
Review:  There's only one word that can explain Kings Quest, that word is 'great'. 
  For many years Kings Quest has been a popular series of PC games, and this game tops them all. 
 
  Compared to the others, this is one huge step up. The graphics by todays standards may not be perfect, 
 and the sound may not be the best, but that doesn't mean this game isn't great. The story line 
 is very unique, and the game is long. All of the ideas and puzzles incorperated into the game add 
 to its greatness. I think they maybe steered a little too far into the combat though, and maybe 
 missed too many chances for tougher puzzles, but then again, if they left more of the battle out, 
 we'd probably complain about that too. 
  This game tackles all it could. No game will have everything, but I'd say this one, minus the graphics 
 and sound, accomplished all it could. 
  I am a fan of RPG games, and if you are, I suggest choosing this one, even if it's not much to 
 look at, it's awful fun. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dope999
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 2, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  I was 9 years old, when I got this game from my grandparents ( :P ) . It is one of my first video 
 game experiences. I spend 3 years completing this game! 3 YEARS! Okay, I didn't play the game for 
 6 months in a period, but anyways, this actually means that the games has so much in it! And by 
 that I mean that the gameplay is one of the best I have ever seen! Besides the unattractive graphics, 
 the game is amazing from top to bottom!
  
  The GooD:
  - Revolutionary gameplay!
  - Lots and lots of replay value.
  - Great sound and music.
  - Cool puzzle-solving.
  
  The 
 BaD:
  - Awful graphics!
  - Can be very, very frustating sometimes.
  - It can takes days to complete ONE mission.
  - Boring boss fights.
  
  Kings Quest: Mask 
 of Eternity is maybe a little old, but if it can run on your computer, then see where you can buy 
 it, because it's just so damn great! 
  
  Dope999 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_vampire1685
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 8, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  it's an excellent game, but @ it's time not now, good graphics, storyline, music every things, 
 with some bugs which if was fixed, would raise the mark ten.
  if u play this game right now u'll only affected by the music, may b the story but graphics now 
 are brrrrrrrrrrrrrr ....
  but still, king'squest 8 mask of eternity was and will always b 1 of the greatest games ever made...........
 
  graphics as i said b4 was great @ late 90s.
  sound is excellent even now.
  gameplay is abit tough but u'll get used 2 it.
  difficuty is hard, have 2 say, clues r hard 2 
 find in big town searching it from north 2 south.
  very long game in 1st time playing due 2 the above reason, but if u play it once more, i guess 
 u'll finish it in less than 24 hours :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 2, 2006 5:49 pm PT
Review:  When I was first offered King's Quest VIII: Mask of Eternity to review I got really excited. I'm 
 very into adventure games and decided that it was about time that I threw myself into another mindless 
 adventure.
  
  I was pleasantly surprised with this game. It takes full advantage of my 3Dfx card and has pretty 
 good graphics. I have to say that I've seen better, like in Quake, but they did a nice job with 
 it. The characters also seem a bit stiff, but there is plenty of humor to go around.
  
  The game itself starts out a bit slow. You are walked through a relatively safe area and are asked 
 to solve almost mindless puzzles. I did find myself almost bored before the game finally got moving. 
 Now that it has I don't see signs of it slowing down. I think the slow pace in the beginning is 
 an attempt to get you familiar with the game before they throw lots of difficult puzzles at you. 
 Lets just say that I'm damn glad I stuck with the game. It has provided me hours of both torment 
 and intrigue. I've sworn at myself many times since starting the game, mostly in arguments about 
 missing an important piece of a puzzle.
  
  I am anxiously waiting to get back to the game. I've been playing for around 12 hours so far, and 
 I haven't lost interest yet. The best part is my fiance is also playing the game and he is pretty 
 far behind me. Part of the reason I like this game is I enjoy playing a game where intellect and 
 intelligence play a big part in how fast you get through.
  
  All in all, I've been extremely happy with King's Quest VIII. It has already provided me with hours 
 of entertainment, and even more while I watch my fiance make the same mistakes I did. It seems 
 like a pretty even playing field between women and men, but strength has nothing to do with who 
 is going to finish this game first.
  
  You may find yourself annoyed with the characters speech in the game. It's all old english and 
 very thee and thou. I happen to find it kind of charming. However, if the speech puts you off you 
 may want to look a little closer into the game. The creators seem to have added some quirks into 
 the game for their own amusement. In fact take a good look at the graveyard and you'll see what 
 I mean. Kudos to the Sierra staff. I had a good chuckle in the graveyard. They did a bang up job 
 with this one.
  
  So far it has been entertaining and enjoyable. I can't give you much of a comparison to the other 
 King's Quest games, because I never played them. This is my first but I would definitely go out 
 of my way to play another. My best comparison is to Tomb Raider (I and II) and I have had just 
 about as much fun with this as I had with the first Tomb Raider. The second one was disappointing.
 
  
  So, go gaming and have fun with it. I think this is a good game with solid attributes. Just give 
 it a chance. It grows on you, I know it grew on me. I'm off to find the rest of the Mask of Eternity 
 now, chow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RainbowBrite
Rating: 5.7
Date: Oct 13, 2005 5:04 am PT
Review:  Fans of the Kings Quest series have endured change before, only to discover that the games were 
 better than expected, both with Kings Quest 3 and Kings Quest 7. Not so this time. If you are 
 a fan of the series and are approaching this game because of the Kings Quest name, you will be 
 disappointed. The game is only loosely tied to the series, by taking place in a land named Daventry 
 and a brief appearance by the royal family at the beginning. Unlike KQ7, where only the most die-hard 
 traditional fans would say the game was not a true Kings Quest game, Mask of Eternity sparked 
 much controversy that Kings Quest was in the name, or even associated with Daventry. Many more 
 fans this time will not acknowledge MoE as a Kings Quest, and as you can see, Sierra had the sense 
 not to number it KQ8.
  
  MoE is not a traditional adventure game. It is a 3D action-adventure game with monster combat galore. 
 An evil being casts a dark spell over the Mask of Eternity (a treasure unheard of in the KQ series) , 
 which is the icon of truth and order. Daventry becomes a dark land inhabited by monsters. All the 
 previous KQ games rewarded nonviolence, and MoE shatters that tradition. The evil being breaks 
 the Mask up and the pieces scatter over the land. One lands at the feet of Connor, a citizen of 
 Daventry. Just as he picks it up, the evil spell reaches the land, and everyone but him is turned 
 to stone. Connor, not a member of the royal family, is the one who must quest to save Daventry. 
 
  
  This game is not recommended for young children, unlike the rest of the Kings Quest series. Not 
 only does it involve much combat, but the monsters and villains are far scarier. As an adult gamer, 
 the combat doesnt bother me, but if you have bought the other games specifically because they 
 are child-friendly, you should be aware of what this game is. It still remains tamer than most 
 of the games available today, though.
  
  The problem is, even ignoring the KQ series and looking at MoE as a standalone game, its not a 
 very good one. The graphics are very pixilated, which is surprising because Sierras history was 
 one of setting high standards for the gaming industry with top-of-the-line graphics and design. 
 Its also a very buggy game, and while there is a patch, Sierra probably shipped it a bit too early, 
 and the patch does not fix all the glitches and issues. The storyline is not very good and there 
 are plot holes, the camera control is bad, combat is too simple, the movement control is sub-par 
 the negatives go on.
  
  As a stand-alone game Im afraid MoE is only average, and as a game with the Kings Quest title 
 it doesnt deserve that name. If youre a fan of this type of game and can put up with the glitches, 
 try it, but just dont expect it to be like the previous Kings Quest games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canadiancowboy2
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 8, 2005 5:01 pm PT
Review:  There are a few flaws like there is no sky, were is the sky? but other than that it's a fun game.
 
  
  The gameplay that sierra was trying to put together was a Action/RPG feel to it. it's fun useing 
 diffrent weapns to find the five pieces to the mask. 
  
  The grafics are kind of like the Tomb Raider's grafica back in the early days. so they are good. 
 
  
  What may not please these hard-core adventurers is the heavy use of action-oriented puzzles throughout 
 Mask of Eternity. Many sections of the game require more than a little dexterity to complete, and 
 some - particularly those that involve a series of sequential jumps - may even have console gamers 
 pulling out their hair.
  
  the graphics engine is very solid, fast, and often impressive when used with a 3D accelerator (the 
 software-only renderer is far less attractive) . It handles outdoor and indoor scenes equally well 
 and, when combined with the very detailed character animations, offers a believable depiction of 
 the world it portrays. The only real problem with the graphics lies in the details: There's a certain 
 sense of barrenness throughout the game, and long stretches of look-alike terrain are common. You 
 also see some rather pronounced pop-up in the more complex areas, which is a little distracting. 
 And then there are the load times, which can last up to two or three minutes between realms - which 
 is simply too long.
  
  so in the end this is a good game and i give this a 8 out of 10 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
