-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: KISS: Psycho Circus - The Nightmare Child
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/kisspsychocircusthenc/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 28, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.6
Critic Score: 7.1, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 174 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Gathering
Developer: Third Law Int.
Genre: Action
Date:     Jul 18, 2000 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Once you've played the first ten minutes of Psycho Circus, you might as well have played the first 
 ten hours. 

 When you see the word "KISS" in the title and four different retail box designs each spotlighting 
 one of the members of KISS, you might reasonably expect that KISS: Psycho Circus - The Nightmare 
 Child would feature wall-to-wall KISS - kind of like this sentence. But oddly enough, KISS: Psycho 
 Circus contains very little of the legendary rockers - some coy song references, snippets from 
 a few hits, and a portrait of Paul Stanley are about as KISS as it gets. As such, faithful members 
 of the KISS Army hoping for the ultimate rock shooter will be particularly disappointed with Psycho 
 Circus, the first game by Third Law Interactive, a development house founded by ex-Ion Storm employees. 
 For everyone else, Third Law's attempt to re-create the frantic action of classic first-person 
 shooters such as Doom is fairly good but ultimately too formulaic.   

  KISS: Psycho Circus is actually based on the Todd McFarlane comic book of the same name. Unlike 
 the band, the game makes absolutely no attempt to rock - instead, it has a generic techno soundtrack. 
 What's worse, it's a techno version of a KISS song! And if the story in the game is any indication 
 of the quality of storytelling in the comic book, then Third Law might have been better off spending 
 its Todd MacFarlane money on a tanker truck full of Blatz. Let's just say the plot involves a witch 
 speaking - at great length - about some indecipherable mumbo jumbo.   

  You control the four members of a band that isn't KISS as each one battles through a multipart 
 level picking up pieces of a KISS costume along the way. Once you've completed the four areas, 
 a fifth and final level opens up.   

  The environments are each quite large and compose a sort of "greatest hits" package of shooter 
 themes. The castles of Unreal, the modern offices of Half-Life, the freak show of Blood, the steel 
 plant of Kingpin, and the hellish pits of Doom all return in spirit in KISS: Psycho Circus. Even 
 the greenish canyons of Daikatana make an appearance. Psycho Circus does have a few original settings, 
 such as a towering 50-story bookcase. The game uses a heavily modified version of the LithTech 
 engine used in Shogo and Blood II, and generally speaking, it does an excellent job. Though often 
 unoriginal, the levels look good.   

  Psycho Circus is a pure shooter. The challenge lies solely in combating endless waves of enemies 
 as you move from the start to the end of every level. The game throws a lot of monsters at you, 
 sometimes as many as 20 at a time. You haven't seen swarms of monsters this dense in a shooter 
 since the heyday of Doom, and at first, it's exhilarating having so much to shoot. Setting off 
 a jack-in-the-box grenade in the midst of ten creatures is undeniably satisfying. However, like 
 most of the weapons in the game - especially what passes for the rocket launcher - the jack-in-the-box 
 seems underpowered. And unfortunately, once you've played the first ten minutes of Psycho Circus, 
 you might as well have played the first ten hours. Though there's an occasional exception, the 
 same creatures appear throughout the entire game. Some of the enemies are totally forgettable, 
 such as the spiderlike Headless, which appears in virtually every battle in the game. Other monsters 
 in Psycho Circus are more interesting, such as a zombified fat lady who rips chunks of blubber 
 out of her distended belly and tosses them at you. But because the fights aren't particularly tactical 
 or tense, the experience becomes repetitive long before Psycho Circus is over.   

  There's yet to be a shooter since Quake III and Unreal Tournament that's earned as much praise 
 for its multiplayer gameplay. Psycho Circus doesn't break this trend: it features nothing more 
 than standard deathmatch and team deathmatch. There's also a mode called conquest, but it's just 
 deathmatch with a scoring adjustment. Psycho Circus doesn't have a built-in game finder either, 
 nor does it include Mplayer, Gamespy, or any other third-party matchup service. Worse yet, once 
 you actually locate a server, you might encounter fairly regular crashes back to your desktop. 
   

  Aside from its drab multiplayer mode, KISS: Psycho Circus is fairly entertaining. Unfortunately, 
 apart from the fact that the band itself makes too few appearances, the core gameplay is too shallow 
 to sustain the entire game. The firefights are too similar to provide much excitement the tenth 
 time through, much less the hundredth. Ultimately, Psycho Circus is one game you and the boys won't 
 be playing all night.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Synchro
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Kiss Psycho Circus may not be a faithful tribute to the popular rock band, but its competence as 
 a solid shooter is undeniable. The graphics are good, and the semi-Unreal-esque textures do add 
 to the environment.
  
  Enemies in KPC definitely do lack variety. They look great the first time they show their ugly 
 mugs, but thereafter the reuse of the same enemies over and over again does get a bit tedious.
 
  
  The weapons are saving graces, and score major brownie points. Each of the 4 playable characters 
 has his own unique weapons, apart from a handful of weapons that are common to all. Each character 
 also goes through unique looking areas, that are different for each of the characters. The gradual 
 transformation of the characters as the levels progress into their full fledged combat gears is 
 another significant phenomenon to look out for.
  
  The music tracks from KISS are not that bad. Most of the levels come with jukeboxes where you can 
 listen to a song when you wish to. This music-on-demand service should delight some players.
  
  All in all, Psycho Circus is a good fun-filled game. The pure satisfaction, obtained from pelleting 
 the expansive midriff of a ball buster with a hand cannon makes it all worth it. If you enjoy FPS-s 
 then this a shooter that you should definitely try.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeus_gb
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 19, 2007 8:20 am PT
Review:  KISS: Psycho Circus is one hell of a strange game. I don't think i've ever had to hunt down a mad 
 clown before. :)
  
  The games graphics are very bright and colourful, the last thing you'd expect from a FPS game but 
 nothing about this game is normal. The Lithtech engine does a good job with the graphicsin the 
 game but there by no means revolutionary.
  
  The sound effects and the level music are below average which in my opinion is quite a disappointment. 
 The hidden jukeboxes that play KISS tunes is a really good idea but I think the game would have 
 been a lot better if you could have been running around the game while listening to KISS songs.
 
  
  The game does have it's problems and one of them if the indifference in the characters you play. 
 They two differences between them are the cosmetic difference of the characters and the slightly 
 different look of the realm for each character. There's simply no real distinction between the 
 characters.
  
  KISS: Psycho Circus is a strange and non main stream FPS that's worth a look but don't be expecting 
 anything revolutionary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 10, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  Everyone the world over recognizes KISS for their cyber-Kabuki costumes and uncomplicated, occasionally 
 catchy party rock. Few people (among my friends and family, at least) know about the comic book 
 series in which Marvel wunderkind Todd McFarlane cast each of the original band members onstage 
 persona as elemental demigods. One of the fellows who works in my building is a bona fide former 
 registered member of the KISS Army, and he remembered the purportedly true urban legend that maintains 
 that the printing ink for the original 70s KISS comic book was mixed with each members own blood, 
 but he had no idea about McFarlands Four Who Are One resurgence in the 90s. The storyline laid 
 out in the Psycho Circus fanfic series isnt essential for anyone who is interested in trying out 
 the Lithtech-powered shooter of the same name, although a passing familiarity with The Elders 
 fallen hosts (Fortunado, Stargrave, and so forth) helps to round out the identity of the mini-bosses 
 who appear within the game.
  
  An appreciation for the iconic groups music isnt necessary, either. As much as I enjoy catching 
 Detroit Rock City, Unholy, or Shout it Out Loud on the local college station during my afternoon 
 commute, treacly junk like God Gave Rock &amp; Roll to You or the horribly laughable Love Gun make 
 me want to rip my ears out by the roots. All of those songs are present in Psycho Circus, but only 
 in snippetsand the sound bite for the two that I listed as the bad ones repeat over and over. 
 When the title was first released, metal militia members who love the band so deeply that theyve 
 already made arrangements for their own burial in a Simmons-approved KISS coffin took offense at 
 the fact that they were relatively low on the list of Third Law Interactives target demographics; 
 by my reckoning, FPS players and McFarlane/Image Comics devotees ranked far above them as the focus 
 of the games design.
  
  Once any kvetching about Psycho Circus soundtrack is set aside, the game revels in its pen-and-ink 
 origins with some mighty inventive creatures and settings. The titles theme centers around a nasty 
 somnambulant head trip that each of the four newly-dubbed envoys for the Elders must face in turn. 
 Every episode begins with a surreal interpretation of the roadhouse where the KISS acolytes set 
 off on their journey and leads to a similarly skewed version of the titular big top. The levels 
 in-between are interesting, benefiting as they do from the creative freedom allowed by their basis 
 in a realm of fretful dreams. The games promise of wave after wave of shrieking, gnashing fiends 
 is upheld very nicely; even though plenty of massively populated titles were released over the 
 past seven years (with Serious Sam and Painkiller among the most notable) , Third Law really does 
 coax some pretty daunting swarms out of a relatively primitive version of the estimable Lithtech 
 engine. The Spawners were a good idea, since they challenge the player to actively stem the tide 
 of monsters rather than simply outlast each assault. Like Psycho Circus moody, color-coordinated 
 locations (the tincture unique to each avatar  purple for the Starbearer, green for the Beastmaster, 
 etc.  is also the prevailing hue for the levels in their respective chapters) , the beasts are 
 mutated variations of familiar carnival attractions; acrobats (in the form of Unipsychos) , organ 
 grinders, strongmen, and, naturally, clowns sprout claws and fangs to pose some of the most difficult 
 challenges, particularly on the games hardest setting.
  
  As much as I enjoy some good, gritty verisimilitude in shooters with a contemporary or historical 
 setting, a strong departure from reality is always welcome. Psycho Circus strongest suit is the 
 Hypnos-empowered ingenuity I mentioned previously; the bizarre locations and freakish foes prompted 
 many a pleasant surprise even if the combat scenarios gradually developed a tendency toward repetition. 
 Listening to the old Gypsy woman hiss and gurgle her way through each episodes exposition was 
 instantly tiresome and a terrible narrative choice. If I had my druthers, I would also expand the 
 weapons in the game to assign a completely unique set to each elemental  nothing but fire-based 
 attacks for the Demon, for example  even if the differences were only cosmetic. Otherwise, Psycho 
 Circus contains some challenging and chaotic action set in a highly imaginative adventure that 
 just about any FPS buff (with the ironic exception of diehard KISS fans) should enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: picklessmulan
Rating: 6.6
Date: Oct 16, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  This Game is god in one way but bad in others !!
  The Graphics are good and the sound is really good, but the other things about the game is been 
 there done that!!! Its a very hard game and the number of enemies is sometimes all over you. I 
 have only played on level 3 of 5 and its really difficult so i wonder whats level 5 is like. The 
 gameplay is ok and its easyto learn as i said the graphis and the sound are quite good so is the 
 value with 5 different levels but the game is so hard and there is no suprises so the game gets 
 boring after a while and when you finisht one level you dont want to start again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scuffdog_65
Rating: 3.4
Date: Apr 9, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  KISS Psycho Circus is a horrible game that should have never been made. Graphics ae just unbelievably 
 bad. The gameplay is boring and fairly glitchy. You play as either The Starbearer, The Celestial, 
 The Beastking, or The Demon. If the game's name has the band KISS in it, wouldnt you expect to 
 play as the members of the band KISS. You would think so, but no. They look like them but why wuld 
 you call them those other names? Why? Anyway throughout the game you go through various strange 
 levels looking for armor and weapons for your character. Once you collect all the armor, then your 
 done with that character and move on to the next one. BORING! Some of the levels have radios and 
 jukeboxes that play some pretty good KISS songs. That is probably the only good part about this 
 game. If you just LOVE the band KISS and just have to have everything with their name on it, pick 
 this game up. if your not a KISS fan, then stay as far away from this game as you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: piru_lee
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 2, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is realy cool, it has great graphics and sound (Kiss music can be heard in some levels) . 
 using lightrez tech it makes the game much cooller, and also, easy to create custom maps and skins. 
 
  
  The single player mode is excellent, it has 4 different realms, for each kiss character. The game 
 incluedes 5 multiplayer maps, and the patch adds 5 more. But there are also more than 40 custom 
 maps to download (kpc. amsgames. com) , wich makes the game better. 
  
  The only bad thing I found in the game, is the online multiplayer mode. it's hard to find games, 
 even in gamespy arcade.
  
  This game is similar to Doom. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
