-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: KKND 2: Krossfire
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/kknd2krossfire/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  3, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.7
Critic Score: 6.4, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 138 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Melbourne House
Developer: Beam Entertainment
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Oct 31, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's not horrible, as in Conquest Earth horrible, but it's not the type of game that causes you 
 to make exclamations of glee while playing. 

 The computer game industry has much in common with the horror film industry. Both produce a continual 
 stream of unwanted sequels. Both can sometimes surprise the consumer with a sequel that is better 
 than the original. Beam's Krush, Kill, and Destroy 2: Krossfire is a perfect example of the above. 
 The first game, which received a lukewarm reception, was not a game that demanded a sequel. Yet 
 a sequel we have, and though it's still lukewarm, it's actually better than the original.  

 If you missed out on the first KKND, it was your standard resource-gathering real-time strategy 
 game, released at a time when everyone was trying to emulate Red Alert. Set after a nuclear war, 
 it featured normal humans versus rabid mutants with the only claim to originality a better AI than 
 most real-time strategy games. Well, Red Alert is a thing of the past, and Starcraft is the current 
 buzz, so this time it's a standard resource-gathering RTS game trying to emulate Starcraft. No, 
 don't get excited, that doesn't mean you get a well-executed plot and interesting units. All it 
 means is that this time instead of two races, you get three.   

 Carrying over from the first game are the Survivors and the Evolved. The Survivors are survivalist 
 humans. Their troops all look like Elvis or members of the Village People, but their buildings 
 and equipment are fairly standard looking. If you've ever wondered what happens to a Sierra Club 
 member when exposed to a 40-megaton nuke, KKND2 answers that question. They become satanic mutants 
 who ride around on giant hippos. At one with nature, the Evolved use giant animals for weapons 
 of war and construct buildings of wood and stone. Finally, there's the Series 9 robots, farming 
 robots more akin to HAL 9000 than C3PO. Their side looks like a mix of Star Wars, Robotech, and 
 Ronco. While there should have been ample room for creativity, all three sides are simply cookie 
 cutter in nature. There are some minor differences between the sides, but mostly the differences 
 are confined to altered graphics.   

 Once a side is chosen, you're shown an overhead map where you get to pick a mission, usually from 
 two choices, sometimes more. Once that mission is completed you pick again, with the missions getting 
 harder as you ultimately progress to a final showdown with your race's opponents. It's a nice change 
 from the completely linear, but not enough to carry the game. Remarkably, the game suffers from 
 too many nice touches. There's plenty to be found, but these touches never manage to elevate KKND2 
 beyond "been there, done that, got the T-shirt."   

 The basic gameplay is a combination of old school and new school. There's no attempt at a plot, 
 and each mission is basically the same: build base, gather resources, destroy enemy. You might 
 have a mission that gives you a handful of troops, and you need to make do with just these units. 
 Overall, though, expect a lot of build base, gather resources, destroy enemy. Thankfully the game 
 is infused with enough new-school play to keep up with the competition. Take some Red Alert, mix 
 with Starcraft, stir in some Extreme Tactics and Total Annihilation, add a pinch of Dark Reign, 
 and cook until all flavor is lost. Whatever feature you can think of from your favorite real-time 
 strategy game can be found in KKND2. Waypoints, marshaling points, production queues, squashing 
 infantry with tanks, map bookmarks, making your own units, the list goes on. But except for making 
 your own units (which has been done before but never done so well) none of it's new. Sure it's 
 all well executed, but no new benchmarks are set.   

 You'll also find plenty of extras. You can make your own scenarios, skirmish against the computer, 
 and edit unit stats. A few cool extras pop up in the actual game too, like finding helpful hi-tech 
 units hidden in bunkers or units, which when repaired, go back to the spot they came from automatically. 
 But once again the extras are all pretty much stuff we've seen before or are simply not that exciting. 

 There's nothing really wrong with KKND2 as a whole. In fact, in terms of clones, it's at the top 
 of the list. Graphics are nice, the sound effects are decent except for the repetitive unit acknowledgments, 
 the AI is truly good, there's a heap of features... but it's all old news. It's not horrible, as 
 in Conquest Earth horrible, but it's not the type of game that causes you to make exclamations 
 of glee while playing. If you've been in a bomb shelter for the past year and haven't played Total 
 Annihilation or Starcraft, you'll consider KKND2 a fantastic game. For the rest of us, it's too 
 much imitator and not enough innovator.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: orclv
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2009 5:39 pm PT
Review:  The graphics in the game are well done 4 its time. The detail of the units to the special effects 
 of an explosion all give the eye candy. The sounds in the game are my problem its the same sounds 
 over and over. The units don't have too many responses. Although as they veteran they do change 
 comments. That brings up another point. The units as they experience more combat they will take 
 less damage. Gain accuracy otherwise inflicting more damage. Or gain special abilities like self-healing. 
 The music mixes well with the game. Especially since each side in kknd2 has its own soundtrack 
 ,4 this old its impressive
  
  The 3 sides have quite a diversity. Because each side has units with different weapons, strengths, 
 weaknesses, abilities, and looks.
  
  One of the most entertaining RTS games I've played recently.
  p. s. multiplayer is really fun, 
 its fast, and bludy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JazzVoid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 1:54 am PT
Review:  Well, when I saw this game, I thought - this is just one more rts-game. But, when I started to 
 play it - I just could not stop. Totally balanced game, as the RTS should be - no great difference 
 between races, like Starcraft. Nice graphics (maybe, at first look it's awful, but keep in mind 
 - the game is oriented to fight hordes of units) , good sound.
  
  Yes, maybe visual of this game ain't masterpiece, but the gameplay is awesome. At first - you can 
 create a real hordes of units. But any numerous army can be wiped out by 2-3 units of special type. 
 So, what player have to fight for - information. You must keep your eye on enemy, watch his development. 
 Just building a horde of tanks doesn't give you anything - a falling plane can crash trough your 
 tanks and nothing will surive.
  
  Keep in touch with you enemy - and you can conquer him in no time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HumanIce2
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 23, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  this is no Red Alert rip-off.. I mean.. come on.
  I hate Red Alert, Starcraft is fine, and Tiberian Sun was fine..
  whatever about those games, 
 KKND 2: Krossfire WILL REMAIN THE BEST.
  I was used to play it on 2P in the PS1 version all the time, then the PC version.. I just liked 
 everything about it, the music is awesome! the controls are a little hard for beginners on the 
 PS1 version.. but man.. this is one of the best games I've played in my life, I usually don't like 
 games like Red Alert.. but this game is just too awesome..
  I'm no KKND fan, I don't like KKND Xtreme or KKND original.. they were crap, but this game.. I 
 mean, the makers of it should come back, and make more of KKND.. the sprites were really well done, 
 the voice acting was cool, and BTW the bomb dudes are the best! they are cheap, huge tanks only 
 kill one at once, but if you have many, you are unstoppable, and you can blow up an house on 5 
 seconds.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willxcool
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  KKND- don't know much about RTS games but this was my very first RTS game that i played. and i 
 kinda liked KKND the game lets you take control of your mass army depending on which side you choose 
 from and battle it out. as you progress the game gets harder and harder but more fun. Graphics 
 are also not to bad but the shine effect on the units makes them look a little more like plastic, 
 controls are ok just the positioning of the screen scale in quite to Big and its hard to see whats 
 going on the with your units. But above all that i still fine this Game amazingly Good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sponny1
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jun 16, 2006 6:18 am PT
Review:  Though KKND is more like Conquest Earth but KKND wasnt as bad as conquest earth by comparing both 
 KKND is better but that dosent mean that its all godd but still the graphics are good especially 
 when it comes to building and battles but overall its just good
  
  The campains arnt as fun as i tought they would nor they would ever but skrimish can be fun or 
 do they have skrimish well who cares i baught the game 3 years ago. The sounds arent as good but 
 still overall its not as a good game as how i taught it
  
  Sure they may look exciting and all from the screenshot but ill just say its good to beat CE but 
 not good enough to got one of the good scores and still the only thing that you'l be finding and 
 felling is like its just one of those CNC copycats 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarknessOfFate1
Rating: 4.1
Date: Jul 5, 2005 3:43 am PT
Review:  \Warning: I used a LEGAL CD rip of this game for this review meaning I didnt have movies or music 
 so they are not reviewed.
  
  KKND (Krush Kill N Destroy) Krossfire is a crap RTS it looks boring it sounds boring and it is 
 boring
  
  The graphics are average. Units are boring and uninspired. You just have basic infantry like machine 
 gunners and grenadiers, light stuff like motorbikes and heavy armour like APCs. There are two other 
 forces, Robots and a weird alien force. Still they are boring and undefiled.
  
  The locales are just plain water grass and mountain landscapes. Nothing jumps out and slaps your 
 eyes about.
  
  Sound is just as nondescript. Basic sounding gunfire, generic explosions, and weak screams make 
 it a bore to listen to. Some of the unit acknowledgements are cool but as youd guess they get 
 repetitive. The series 9 (robots) speech is some of the worst in RTS history, with what sounds 
 like a normal human voice trying to sound like a robot which just ends up being very corny, lame 
 and very annoying.
  
  The gameplay in this could have been tolerable, but for the fact that the game is totally unbalanced. 
 Base defenses are way too strong. You might send 15 MG infantry, some grenadiers, 4 APCs and a 
 few light units to attack a single Robot guard tower and they will all die. Bases defenses dish 
 out way too much damage and take way too much punishment. It makes games boring wars of attrition., 
 just letting your oppent impale himself on your base defense, and sending wave after wave of units 
 to take out theirs.
  
  
  There is also way too much countering. Every unit totally owns one type of enemy and gets instantly 
 killed by another, which makes battles boring since its very easy to counter and to guess what 
 the enemy will use. The unit AI isnt bad with decent pathfinding but they can be dumb reacting 
 to base attacks with units ignoring enemies attacking buildings, sometimes just sitting there.
 
  
  The basic gameplay is still just collect build and conquer like almost all other RTS games. You 
 make a refinery you make a vehicle deport etc you create a mobile oil drill move to an oil patch 
 deploy it to make a derrick like structure and use a harvester like vehicle to ferry old back and 
 forth for dollars.
  
  Another thing that makes it boring is the fact that the sides are exactly the same graphics look 
 totally different but they all have equivalent units of each other and nothing unique. Yawn.
  
  All up this is a boring frustrating game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gumpo
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 30, 2004 12:29 pm PT
Review:  The KKnD series has always been overshadowed by the popular Command and Conquer series. As the 
 original KKnD was released slightly after Command And Conquer, it was regarded as a cheap rip off 
 of C&C. Yes, it was designed to cash in on the success of the new RTS genre, but nobody actually 
 gave it a chance.
  
  KKnD2 features 3 equally powered teams, each with similar units, thus making game balance nearly 
 perfect. Each team has a few unique features, thus allowing for a good amount of variety in tactics 
 based on the team you play as and against.
  
  The graphics at the time the game was released were very competitive, and i think they still hold 
 up pretty good. The game claimed to have "Killer Intelligence" and didnt really hit on that target 
 - it simply had average AI, but compensated by giving the computer opponents other advantages in 
 harder difficulty settings.
  
  But the key to KKnD2 is its interface. It has, quite simply, the most intuitive interface in any 
 RTS game, to date. Instead of a bulky bar along the botton of the screen, which changes based on 
 which building or unit you have selected, it placed an extremely thin bar on the right side of 
 your screen - no more then an inch large, even in the lowest resolution setting. The bar consisted 
 of several buttons with pictures on them representing everything you could build in the game. A 
 man for your infantry, tank for your vehicles, house for your buildings, etc. This allowed you 
 to easily build units without needed to use hotkeys.
  
  KKnD2 also featured custom designed units, which allowed you to mix and match several armor classes, 
 weapons, and special abilities to create different units for different needs. For instance, you 
 could create a heavy anti-aircraft vehicle with a radar jammer, to take out aircraft almost undetected. 
 Or, you could build a lightweight repair droid, to give your units more heath in battle. there 
 were probably around a hundred combinations, which was pretty spiffy for a game of its time.
  
  The campaign was also very well done. It used a map that let you pick which missions you wanted 
 to go on, and you were then issued orders from a humorous leader. In fact, most of the KKnD series 
 involved almost as much senseless humor as it did explosions.
  
  To this day i still play a multiplayer game on LAN with my friends if we get bored of whatever 
 is out there - KKnD2 is just an extremely solid experience that you would be hard pressed to top 
 from a game released around the same time as it. It should have gone down in history as the game 
 that beat out command and conquer, but nobody gave it a chance to. (And no, im not a fanboy - i 
 love C&C too) Now you can find KKnD2 and the remake of the orginal at abbandonware websites - trust 
 me, this is a good thing. Go download it and give it a shot. If the slightly dated graphics dont 
 bother you, i think you'll really enjoy the game.
  
  (Give KKnD Xtreme a shot too, its a good single player experience, especially with the real video 
 captures for your commanders) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
