-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: KKND Xtreme
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/kkndxtreme/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 11, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 6.5, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 53 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Beam Software
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Oct 31, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The improvements prove to be nothing more than a cheap face-lift of a rapidly aging game. 

 When Krush Kill 'N Destroy arrived nearly a year ago, it was a passable entry in the real-time 
 strategy genre. Although the game won over some hard-core supporters, it left much to be desired. 
 It isn't a true sequel (KKND 2 is currently under development) ; rather Melbourne House's KKND Xtreme 
 is a stand-alone game that fixes some of the original's shortcomings. Unfortunately, its improvements 
 prove to be nothing more than a cheap face-lift of a rapidly aging game.   

 KKND was a decent clone that attempted to capitalize on the resurgent real-time strategy genre fueled 
 by WarCraft II and Command &amp; Conquer. It borrowed and repackaged elements from each game, and 
 then dropped them into a postapocalyptic setting similar to something found in a Mad Max movie. 
 Not coincidentally, the resource drastically sought by both factions in the war is, you guessed 
 it, oil. These two sides are known as the Survivor Army and the Evolved Warriors. The Survivor 
 Army is a humanoid race whose units consist of riflemen, flamethrowers, sappers, 4X4 pickups, and 
 tanks. The Evolved Warriors are much more interesting and grotesque. Their forces are composed 
 of organic mutations melded with technology. Missile-firing crabs, acid-spitting scorpions, gun 
 turrets mounted on elephants, and bombardier beetles are just some of the weird weapons the Evolved 
 Warriors employ. It's too bad that some of these oddities weren't better drawn and animated.  

 
 Although Melbourne House excelled at creating a very twisted battlefield, KKND's gameplay was still 
 unimaginative (read the KKND review on this site for more elaboration) . Once the novelty of attacking 
 tanks with mutated bugs and elephants wore off, KKND's regurgitated gameplay became stale. To be 
 fair, there were a few noteworthy features such as its detailed map terrain, utilization of "veteran" 
 units, and above-average computer intelligence that made it worth playing.  

 Instead of trying to significantly improve the game in an effort to keep up with fierce competition, 
 KKND Xtreme offers few improvements. The main additions consist of a Skirmish "KAOS" Mode (allows 
 you to practice against the computer in a multiplayer environment) that should have been included 
 in the original game and a new batch of 20 difficult single-player levels. There are other finer 
 adjustments such as a slightly improved user interface, six-player network support (used to be 
 four) , and a smarter computer opponent (despite this AI upgrade, my old tactics seem to work pretty 
 well) . And for those not looking for a challenge, a strategy guide is provided. These rudimentary 
 upgrades do little to freshen up KKND, a game that is showing its age when compared to great new 
 titles in the genre such as Dark Reign and Total Annihilation. Because the bar has been raised 
 since KKND first arrived, KKND Xtreme deserves a lower score although it is a slightly improved 
 version of the same game.  

 With so many excellent real-time strategy games on the market, there really is no room for worn-out, 
 repackaged games such as KKND Xtreme. Even if you're a hard-core fan of the game, I suggest you 
 skip this extremely lackluster follow-up and scour the Internet to find some single-player maps 
 to tide you over until the real sequel arrives.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DeathEvil
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  It's 2007 and I still load up this game frequently on my virtual machine (windows 95) . KKND is 
 a clone of CC but there is something about it that I keep playing it. The AI is pretty good on 
 hard difficulty; the sound and music are repetitive but I like it; graphics are definately oldschool 
 but it never turns me away because this game is magical. Definately recommended for every RTS fan, 
 as it is still one of my favorite RTS games. KKND2 has better graphics, more units etc. but it 
 lacks the magic of extreme. If you want setup online play, hit me up, I will be glad to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluesteelMeGaSE
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 18, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Developer Melbourne House of Australia came into the real-time strategy fold with the original 
 KKND (Krush Kill 'n' Destroy) . It was an interesting concept... at first, but the game did not have 
 lasting appeal. The original had some flaws too. KKND Xtreme addresses the flaws of the original, 
 such as the awkward lack of smoothness of the mouse, fairly dumb artificial intelligence, and a 
 lack of a skirmish mode. Despite the game's interesting (at first) presentation, the novelty doesn't 
 last long.
  
  The plot, what exists of it, seems a tad borrowed from other story lines. After a deadly nuclear 
 war, and after some 40 years of waiting it out, the surviving humans who burrowed underground (and 
 who happened to build up an army, the reason of which the manual has an uninteresting explanation) 
 try and reclaim the surface of the Earth. The Earth is whatever you'd imagine it would be after 
 a nuclear holocaust; mutated flora, twisted and abominable wildlife because of radiation, and what 
 the burrowed humans didn't expect: mutant people. After some disagreements, and the lack of their 
 desire to be friendly, they start a war. The humans are technologically advanced compared to the 
 mutants, who use predominantly living weapons with some man-made firepower to aide in their efforts. 
 The human army is called The Survivors, while the mutant army is called The Evolved. A problem 
 with the gameplay, which is important for this genre, is that the term of balance is used to heavily 
 with the units; each time has the exact same kind of unit, only each one has a tiny little strength 
 over the other. The biggest difference between any unit is the highest level of the infantry units, 
 as The Survivors have one of the deadliest units in the game, the Sniper, and the Evolved have 
 a shorter ranged, accurately-declined yet faster shooting Crazy Harry (which is way worse, as a 
 bunch of snipers will easily take out the Crazy Harry's before they even can pull their triggers) . 
 This system also lends little play length to the game. Uniqueness, at least a mediocre amount of 
 it, is nowhere to be found in this game. The novelty of the game play wears out after one or two 
 hard-played rounds, forcing you to think if it is really worth playing any longer.
  
  The game does lend very worthy features to the genre, of which have most likely been a benchmark. 
 One feature, which is very interesting and very major to the game itself, is a unit's ability to 
 level up. This is represented by the color of the box surrounding each units' life bars. At gray, 
 the unit as at the normal level; at blue, it is at the 2nd level, and you'll notice accuracy, firepower, 
 and even firing speed increase; the last level is indicated by red, and the unit may shoot twice 
 as fast as it did at the normal level, it will pop a bullet into the head of the enemy much more 
 likely, and it will have a much more sinister sounding voice to boot. The terrain also has a certain 
 amount of interactivity. You can dodge enemy fire when a unit is on the other side of a building 
 from an enemy. Terrain height also serves to keep a unit from even being attacked, and you can 
 gain a strategic advantage from a height. Despite the interactivity though, it doesn't feel real, 
 like the terrain seen even in Command &amp; Conquer, or WarCraft. The game has some mildly redeeming 
 qualities. The mission briefings are every bit in the same vein as Command &amp; Conquer's, which 
 were live-action sequences. These sequences are at times a bit humorous, or somewhat livening, 
 but on the other hand, they just serve to give you the briefing. They have nothing on the stellar 
 work seen in the original Command &amp; Conquer. The music of the game is a bit interesting as 
 well, depending on the level of course, because the game does not have the option to change the 
 music track. Many of the units have interesting lines, some of which can be, Alrighty then! , Sure 
 thing , Yeah, he's so dead , and He he he he. Like mentioned before though, these elements are 
 merely for novelty. They wear out as quickly as the game play.
  
  KKND Xtreme hardly adds anything new, the most significant of which being the Skirmish mode, called 
 Kaos Mode here, and a handful of new missions for each team. These new missions are for the most 
 part extremely frustrating, usually borderline difficult. Not to mention, you don't get anything 
 satisfactory when they're done. You're just brought back to the main menu to do whatever you want 
 afterwards. They also lack any bit of workmanship that had existed in the original game's campaign 
 modes, as there are no live-action briefings. The Kaos Mode is somewhat lacking, though you can 
 have a couple of allies and can enable a special feature, similar to C&amp; C's crate system, where 
 you can gain a very powerful unit or in the worst case scenario, some resource units.
  
  If the game was worked on much more, then it would have been just that. However, it tries to be 
 more ambitious than it should be, as it focuses on introducing it's features, but doesn't execute 
 them very well (other than the leveling up system, which is very good here) . It also has a touch 
 of humor that is more of a novelty than originality, and it wears out the game in turn. The game 
 should have avoided the game balance overkill, because it took away the chance of uniqueness to 
 the game play. If done a different way, KKND would have been a worthy competitor in this genre. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
