-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Knight Rider
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/knightrider/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 25, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.8
Critic Score: 5.5, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 105 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Tri Synergy
Developer: Davilex
Genre: Mission-based Driving
Date:     Feb 12, 2003
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Knight Rider isn't a bad game -- it's just too short and too repetitive. 

   Knight Rider  might not seem like the most obvious licensed property to base a game on. When you 
 get right down to it, the original 1980s television show was about a talking, crime-fighting car 
 that could do tricks. The car in question was KITT (the Knight Industries Two Thousand) , and it 
 could get up on two wheels, jump over things, and perform other ridiculous feats that were usually 
 specific to the plot of any given episode. And developer Davilex has tried to implement these car 
 tricks in Knight Rider for the PC, making for a strange game that's almost like a cross between 
 a traditional racer and a platform-jumping action game.  

          The levels are laid out like stunt courses.     

  Knight Rider has two types of missions: 
 those that require you to race, and those that require you to explore. In this respect, it is similar 
 to SCi's violent car-combat game Carmageddon 3. It is also similar to Carmageddon 3 in that the 
 racing sections are fun, but the exploration sections are tedious. Unfortunately, you often have 
 to do both in any given mission. Knight Rider isn't a bad game -- it's just too short and too repetitive. 
 Most missions will require you to chase a helicopter or another car, drive around a compound and 
 scan buildings, or both. The game is full of time limits, requiring you to "Stop that helicopter!" 
 or "Get to the transmission station!" in some short period of time. It's usually not very difficult -- in 
 fact, for some reason, the time limits are really only a factor in the training missions. The "hard" 
 difficulty setting makes things a little more challenging, but on the easy or normal settings, 
 you can finish all the game's missions in one or two tries.  

  Often, the only challenge in the game comes from figuring out exactly where you're supposed to 
 go. This is because Knight Rider, especially in the latter half of the game, expects you to use 
 strange routes to access its many areas. You'll occasionally need to jump over some crates, enter 
 "ski-mode" (the official name for KITT's ability to drive on two wheels) to drive across a beam, 
 and then jump from roof to roof just to access a target area. It's ridiculous, because KITT's "turbo 
 boost" (the official name for jumping) allows it to jump high in the air from a dead stop, as if 
 the top-secret car were equipped with the latest in cutting-edge lowrider technology. In these 
 cases, KITT seems less like an automobile and more like a certain famous Italian plumber.  

  The game's racing sections are better, as the roads you'll drive along are set up like stunt 
 tracks. You'll need to jump dozens of broken bridges and obstacles while simultaneously avoiding 
 land mines and civilian vehicles. Strangely, the roads in Knight Rider are strewn with land mines, 
 and in many of the racing missions, buildings and mountains will just explode for no apparent reason. 
 One mission requires you to follow a helicopter through a desert valley, and huge boulders and 
 mesas will tumble and crumble around you, though nothing is causing them to do so.  

  Perhaps the worst thing about Knight Rider is the fact that, for such a simple game, it is fairly 
 difficult to get started. KITT handles decently enough, but actually learning to control it is 
 more difficult, as the tutorial doesn't actually tell you how to activate any of the car's features, 
 and the manual doesn't list every control option (and some of the options listed in the manual 
 are incorrect) . Even stranger is the inclusion of KITT's night-vision mode, which you won't actually 
 need to use during the course of the game.  

  Fans of the show will appreciate that you play as Michael Knight, and that the major supporting 
 staff makes appearances. The original actors don't provide the voices, but the replacements are 
 competent. There aren't always voices -- the cutscenes have voice-overs, but the mission briefings 
 are just pictures of the characters with text dialogue. The game uses music from the series, including 
 the Giorgio Moroder damaged-electro-disco theme song. It's hard not to succumb to a bout of nostalgia 
 as the music kicks in and you see the opening scene, with KITT flying across the desert. And anyone 
 who remembers the show will be glad to know that the game follows the only storyline they're likely 
 to remember, featuring Michael's evil twin Garth and his semi truck of death and destruction, Goliath. 

          Buildings and structures often explode for no reason.     

  When you first start playing the game, you might think that you've somehow booted it up on a Sony 
 PlayStation. The default graphics settings ensure that everything looks jagged and blurry. At higher 
 resolutions and with all the detail settings at their highest, the game looks considerably better, 
 and KITT's wax job reflects everything in sight. Unfortunately, setting the game to a higher resolution 
 doesn't affect the prerendered cutscenes, which look awful no matter what graphics settings you 
 choose.  

  But Knight Rider isn't all bad -- the game's missions can be enjoyable, even if they're repetitive. 
 However, not only are the mission goals fairly similar from mission to mission, but the game's 
 locations are also recycled over and over again. To top it off, Knight Rider is extremely short 
 and shouldn't take you more than four or five hours to complete. Fans of the TV series will likely 
 get a kick out of the game for purely nostalgic reasons, and the game's combination of racing and 
 jumping puzzles might be an interesting novelty for fans of arcade racing games. But underneath 
 KITT's shiny chassis is a fairly humdrum racing game that sails by in no time flat.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: picklessmulan
Rating: 4.3
Date: Dec 6, 2006 3:35 am PT
Review:  This Game is a really money robber !!! For me to end the game on the normal level took about 3 
 hours What a Joke. You should not spend money on 3 hours of gaming. The gameplay while driving 
 is almost ok but its hard to keep the car at the road. But the ski mode and turbo vboost and the 
 other things are ok. The most anoying are when you must jump some crates to get over a fence or 
 whatever that sucks!!! Graphics are ok. The graphics of the car and the characters are quite nice 
 but the souroundings look dead. The cutscene sucks Its very bad graphics on the cutscene not even 
 worth a 1. The sound is also Ok but it could have been more voices in the mission breifing. Here 
 its dialogs that you have to read yourself. The Value of the Game sucks as i mengend i ended the 
 game in three hours and thats really bad. I Think you should get a little more for your money ;) . 
 There are three difficultys but that doesnt help much. And the missions are very short and Easy. 
 The game is so easy that my Grandmother could fix it :) . Anyway its worth playing but just if you 
 really like Knight rider for all us others just ignore this game or borrow it JUST DONT BUY IT. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titanic100
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 17, 2006 4:06 am PT
Review:  knight rider Knight rider When I heard about this game I thought what is it all about but when 
 I played the demo I thought this is a good game, when you are driving KITT and completing missions 
 and chasing people in there car. When I went on to the options I say super pursuit mode I thought 
 cool I can make KITT go a lot faster. When you need to jump over an object you use turbo boost 
 and when KITT tries to fly it is funny when he jumps over an object. Also when you go into the 
 back of the truck and see at the bottom of the screen the technician taking to you and fixing KITT 
 and then sends you on your way again. The best parts of this game is the chasing, when you have 
 to chase cars and at the end you have to kill KARR, KITTS twin and when you do you have completed 
 the game. Also another good part is the beginning when you have to do the training course and test 
 KITT out on the track and you pass the entire test and you can then go out on you assignments Now 
 I have the game I think it is a lot better than most driving games but not the best one ever it 
 has its down sides. Thank you for reading my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andy_Dark
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 9, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  Ok. Let me start by saying that this game is really not as bad as most people describe it. What 
 happens here is that IT'S JUST TOO EASY. And I mean really easy. So easy that almost anyone can 
 finish the whole thing in about a couple of hours, without finding any reason to repeat much of 
 it.
  Apart of being too easy (and short) , it's really an enjoyable adaptation of the 80's TV series 
 we all loved (well, maybe not ALL of us) . The graphics are nice, maybe looking a little dated, 
 but nothing too compromising. The gameplay is Ok, even though it could be a little more fluid. 
 Bottom line: It's a mission based racing game where the car you drive is indestructible and you 
 will be running around like crazy from one point to the other trying to complete the tasks, and 
 succeeding most of the time... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archrivel
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 27, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  The game like the offical review says, isn't a bad one at all. The game is nice, nicely layed out 
 and as a fan of the old show, it's nice to see KITT once again. It used to be said how many times 
 do you see a Car out showing the actors. This was the case and still is for the game, You get to 
 see more of KITT than you do of Hassololf. Which may be to the benifit of some. The plot is kind 
 of to dried out, the story of the game was taken from one of the episodes they did for real, except 
 they've changed it here and there to suit it for a good game. It is slightly too easy as even on 
 hard when you have to chase a Helicopter to keep up. You find out you have to slow down in order 
 to let the Chopper catch up. The whole game is played on one circet. Unless on the Race course, 
 The mission where you get SPM for the first time, (SPM= Super Pursuit mode) If you ignore the mission 
 and play with the SPM you can complete the entire circuit before the mission timer runs out. Kind 
 of funny.
  
  If you would like to see more then feel free to watch my user video.
  
  This game will suit Fans of the Series has it has me coming back to play it everyone once an a 
 while. Also people who like driving games may get a buzz cause you certainly do a lot of driving. 
 ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalnutter
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 30, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  This game surprised me i thought that it would be really boring and that you wouldn't be able to 
 do much while driving KIT. There are actually a multitude of things which you can do with KIT though. 
 You can tilt the car up on to two wheels you can make KIT jump and you have also got the turbo 
 charged driving which is always fun. The only bit about this game which i found disapointing was 
 the ending when KIT faced KARR in a fight to see who was a better car. The only way to really do 
 damage would be to drive KIT straight into KARR and this would also do damage to KIT this was really 
 the only thing which i found bad about the game i want to play the second game just to see what 
 it is like but i haven't been able to find it anywhere at the moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dutch-King
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 11, 2004 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Im 15 and in my past time I looked at so many shows. Like the dudes of hazard and Knight Rider, 
 Baywatch and several other shows and series.
  Knight Rider was one of my favorites! I watched it every day! I liked the functions of kitt and 
 when Michael goes in a secret building to find something out I nearly freaked. I hoped always of 
 a game. There never came a good one.
  
  But one group of people who thought they could make games, made Knight Rider. Davilex made the 
 beginning. Knight Rider is a fan game if you like Knight Rider itself.
  You are always kitt youll never have to take a step out of your car. Sow it is like driver a missing 
 based racing game.
  
  Nothing is worse than jumping with a car from a box to a box or roof like a monkey. It cant be 
 good for anything. While I played the full game and finished it too I wasnt that happy to see 
 the credits because I nearly completed the game is just 2 or 3 ours. 
  The super pursuit mode is done very cool! You can actually see your car evaluate to a super racing 
 car! Over all youll be able to drive 5 min in total in super pursuit mode!
  
  Overall the game is fun to play If you dont have to pay for it. Sow dont run to the store because 
 you wont like it a lot!
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
