-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Knights And Merchants
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/knightsandmerchants/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 21, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 6.5, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 372 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interactive Magic
Developer: JoyMania
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Sep 30, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's hard to recall another game in which you have so little direct control over events, and yet 
 are called upon for so very much micromanagement. 

 What do you get when you mix one part Lords of the Realm II and about nine parts The Settlers II? 
 You end up with Knights and Merchants. This real-time empire-building game offers a decent story 
 and good graphics. After the first 15 to 20 minutes, however, Knights and Merchants fades fast 
 due to some mind-boggling design flaws and tedious, uninteresting gameplay.  

 You begin the game as a captain of the guard in the service of a deposed king. Recently usurped, 
 the king maintains control over a single province only. Your job is to win back control of the 
 entire kingdom, one province at a time. There are 20 missions in all, with one province hanging 
 in the balance on each. This is the first area in which the game stumbles: On most missions, it 
 is entirely unclear what the specific goal is. You can stumble around the map for a while until 
 you find it, but that wastes precious time - the game sucks up enough time as it is, with each 
 mission lasting about an hour.  

 The game has two elements: town building and combat. The process of town building is virtually identical 
 to town building in The Settlers II. You must build a variety of special-purpose buildings, then 
 connect them with roads so that your peasants can transport goods and materials back and forth 
 over your burgeoning kingdom. Stumbling block number two: Road building takes far too long, ties 
 up too many of your people, and is simply too arduous a task for such a crucial element of gameplay. 
 The real problem is that every piece of every road must be paved, so a peasant must carry rock 
 from the storehouse to each road segment. The big question is: Why pave these roads? There are 
 no wheeled units in the game, and I'm fairly certain that quite a few medieval towns were built 
 around dirt thoroughfares.  

 Then there's the process of building the various structures for your town. This element of the game 
 is pretty well implemented. You have a vast array of buildings to choose from, and they each rely 
 on one or two others to be productive. For example, the armory workshop makes leather armor. In 
 order to do so, it must receive leather rolls from the tannery, which in turn needs skins from 
 the swine farm, which must get wheat from the farm. A fairly realistic dependency structure, though 
 the game could do a better job of informing players about lapses in the production cycles. If one 
 of the structures in the chain drops the ball (such as when your tanner leaves his shop to eat 
 at the tavern) , your armory comes to a grinding halt, and the game provides no audio or text messages 
 to warn you. Instead, you simply have to see it for yourself by watching your subjects like a hawk. 
 And if you do notice a problem, there's very little you can do as you have no direct control over 
 any people other than the military units.  

 Which brings us to the combat segment of the game. Your primary goal, after all, is the military 
 conquest of the lost provinces. In order to build up a powerful army, you need to assemble ax fighters, 
 pikemen, archers, and a variety of other potent troops. These units can be trained in your castle, 
 so long as you have the recruits, the weapons, and the armor necessary for the desired unit type. 
 Once trained, you can group like units, move them about, and change their facing and formation. 

 Combat would be the game's best feature, if not for some annoying artificial intelligence problems, 
 idiotic unit pathing, and anarchic formation behavior. Computer-controlled armies tend to sit back 
 on the defensive at all times, unless you goad them into a fight. Even on missions where you are 
 supposedly on the defensive, the computer was content to let me build up my town and my army before 
 attacking. Pathing problems are plentiful both in combat and in deploying troops from the castle 
 to the front lines. Units often mill about in front of the castle even after you order them elsewhere, 
 presumably because they can't figure out the best path. In combat, units often stack two and three 
 deep rather than encircling an enemy. The result is that you have a few soldiers fighting while 
 the rest wait for someone to die so that they can take his place in line.   

 To make matters worse, your armies need frequent supply breaks, a process that brings forth peasants 
 with sausages and wine - and results in utter mayhem for your once-neat formations. After being 
 resupplied, your units are often scattered all over the place, facing several different directions. 
 This leaves them extremely vulnerable to attack (and of course, this seems to be the only time 
 the computer takes the initiative) .  

 The game isn't entirely bad, however. The graphics are quite good, with excellent unit animations 
 for everything from jabbing with a lance to crushing grapes for wine. Ambient life is evident on 
 most missions, including crabs on the beach and foxes scampering through the forest. The landscapes 
 are nicely rendered also. The game's musical score is suitably medieval, and the sound effects 
 are very good. Knights and Merchants offers a decent complement of multiplayer options as well, 
 including village-building and combat-only scenarios.  

 But overall, this game just doesn't impress. It's hard to recall another game in which you have 
 so little direct control over events, and yet are called upon for so very much micromanagement. 
 The good news for fans of this sort of game is that The Settlers III is right around the corner. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: picklessmulan
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Knighta and Merchants is a Strategy game were you both build alot and do some heavy battle. The 
 gam is about a kingdom being splitted when the son takes over his fathers kingdom . Your task is 
 trough 20 missions to get the kingdom back and from evil to good once again. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics of the game is very good. You must have in thought that this game is 10 
 years old. The soldiers and serfs and so on looks good. The buildings and the details in the graphics 
 llok really good like the trees and you can see your woodcutter being out cutting trees. 
  
  Sound: The sound is Good. The voices are very repitive and even if the talk old English it 
 gets more annoying than good i Think. The music though is really good. medieval music all around 
 and it sounds very good to.
  
  The control is the worst part of the game. The battles gets really annoying when your troops acting 
 silly!! They run in eachothers way and this makes the battles hard and frustrating. Also the fact 
 that you must aim your bowmen exactly at the enemy or the will just stand there. The same about 
 the worjkers and serfs they are in the way of eachother whole the time. 
  
  Value: The value of the game is Ok You got 20 missions and the veryfrom 5 minutes to 7 hours each. 
 But its get repitive pretty quick. There are also Multiplayer but its not so active anymore so 
 i cant say anything about that. 
  
  Tilt: The game was fun in the beginning but after 2-3 missions i lost the fun in it. Is so Repitive 
 you do the same thing over and over again. You lose the missions because of the movement of the 
 troops. Its also very much sitting and waiting. In the beginning of a long missions you are very 
 active for about 30 minutes building and so on then it can be a very long waiting just wainting 
 for the buildings and roads being done so you can do some axes who should be transported to the 
 storehouse....... and so on.
  
  + The nice looking graphics, The Music
  - The control in the battles, Repitive, Boring missions
  
  Graphics 8
  Sound 7
  Gameplay 
 4
  Value 5
  Tilt 4
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonite136
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 24, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  Ok, i already have this game for like 8 years so its a bit late, but better late than never...
 
  This game is really the best RTS ever and even though i already have this game for so long, I 
 still play it now and then, just skirmish though:)
  
  Everything is in it and its really realistic, build up your economy, feed your soldiers and slaves, 
 make armor and fight! what sux are the graphics but the gameplay owns graphics so....    
  
  This game is now in shops for like 5 euro, so just buy it and i bet youll love it!
  
  And 
 this part is just because i need 800 words, you like my reviews? yes? me2:) i hope you love me 
 2, cuz i love me2 aswell haha im so funny dont you think?!?
  And this part is just because i need 800 words, you like my reviews? yes? me2:) i hope you love 
 me 2, cuz i love me2 aswell haha im so funny dont you think?!? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ananasz
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 2, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  I never got far with this game, and I REALLY enjoy these kind of games... at least I thought so.
 
  
  It has a good and decent graphics look, but the start of this game already sucks: The first second 
 the game starts, you're being attacked by an army that will cost you often all your men to defeat. 
 And I never got any clue how to rebuild my army.
  I fact, you never get clues for anything at all, and the most logical way of thinking won't help 
 you either, you'll end up being pwned in the ass anyway.
  
  I say ''ha ha'' and remove the disc from my computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muffinballow
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  IT is a classic to be remembered. It realistic in a cool way. It is also something that older people 
 can enjoy because it's not so fast. The game is a future classic. Don't just look at the graphics, 
 look at the quality, and have fun with it online too.
  Knights and Merchants: The Shattered Kingdom (shortened TSK) is a medieval-time based Real-time 
 strategy game. It has been developed by Joymania and published by TopWare Interactive in 1998. 
 You take the role of the captain of the palace guards and lead your soldiers and tell your people 
 what to build where, in order to defeat your enemies. If you enjoy the medieval theme, you'll probably 
 have fun playing the game. The game did not receive a strong critical or popular reception in the 
 UK and the US, but elsewhere it was more popular, consequently a follow up game was released called 
 Knights and Merchants: The Peasants Rebellion. Recently it has also been made available in the 
 US as a value game.
  
  Contents [hide]
  1 Overview 2 Economy 3 Sounds &amp; Music 4 Technology 5 Battle 6 Soldiers 6.1 Archers 6.2 Infantry 
 6.3 Cavalry 7 Buildings 8 Sequels 9 External links [edit] Overview
  Knights and Merchants: The Shattered Kingdom has a single player campaign that consists of 20 scenarios 
 with scenario length ranging from around 30 minutes up to 7 hours depending on its difficulty. 
 There's also a pair of tutorials. One that teaches you how to build and manage your base and also 
 a battle tutorial which teaches which units you should use to counter each other.
  
  The game is not without its flaws. The road system gets easily congested, leading to deadlocks 
 lasting for several minutes. Unfortunately this usually occurs near resource points meaning porters 
 with critical goods ( food , weapons ) cannot get to their destination on time. In addition, the 
 dragging pace of the game cannot be altered which greatly extends the time spent on the resourcing 
 part of missions.
  
  The game also offers a multiplayer mode by using either IPX, TCP/IP or Modem where up to 6 players 
 can play. There's 10 different scenarios to choose from including a number which focus specifically 
 on the combat element of the game.
  
  [edit] Economy
  The economy is very complex in Knights and Merchants: The Shattered Kingdom, more so than most 
 other RTS games, with a greater range of resources and a need to combine basic resources in a number 
 of ways to create a functioning economy. For example, in order to get loaves you must build a farm 
 to get corn, then a mill to get flour and a bakery to bake loaves of the flour. The many different 
 resources in the game require a large amount of corresponding buildings and units in order to fully 
 utilize them requiring greater than usual micromanaging for an RTS.
  
  Every citizen and soldier must eat in the game meaning that you need to produce a great deal of 
 food creating a more naturalistic limit on army size. There is no population limit in game, instead 
 population is limited by how much you produce food. If a unit is not fed for a sustained amount 
 of time it will die.
  
  The every day life aspect of this game is considered a notable feature. You can place many different 
 structures, forcing the player to consider where and when to place each structure. However for 
 new players this greater complexity can lead to a process of trial and error but once experience 
 has been gained it becomes an interesting take on RTS economics.
  
  [edit] Sounds &amp; Music
  The sounds and music in game is relatively authentic for the medieval 
 period contributing to the atmosphere. Every unit talks when selected and make appropriate sounds 
 in battle or when killed. The soundtrack includes around 20 different tracks.
  
  [edit] Technology
  While you are playing the campaign you'll constantly gain knowledge on how 
 to build new buildings. In the first mission you can only create militias because your citizens 
 don't know how to build armory workshops yet, but they gain the knowledge when you advance to the 
 next mission, so you get new buildings over time.
  
  Usually the opponents have better technology than you so you'll have to think a bit how to beat 
 them as they have more powerful units. However the AI is not very intelligent so it shouldn't be 
 any big problem to defeat them.
  
  [edit] Battle
  The battle-aspect of this game is not designed really well, the units are controlled rather unhandy. 
 You can for instance not select more than 1 group of units at a time, in battle this can be really 
 disturbing. Also when your units get to a fight you can't retreat as all their commands get disabled. 
 There is not much variation in units either. Also its very difficult to make even the most simplest 
 units in the game. Thats almost every unit needs at least 3 different rescources. And it takes 
 pretty much time just to get these rescourses, so building an army takes a tremendous amount of 
 time.
  
  The strongest type of soldiers in the game are the archers, and attacking without them is useless 
 as you will lose more soldiers than your opponent. Infantries and cavalries are mainly used for 
 defending your archers and killing the opponents archers.
  
  [edit] Soldiers
  
  [edit] Archers
  Name Attack Defense Special Requirements Bowman 35% 50% Ranged Longbow, Leather 
 Armor, Recruit Crossbowman 100% 70% Ranged, slow attack speed Crossbow, Iron Armament, Recruit 
 [edit] Infantry
  Name Attack Defense Special Requirements Militia 35% 0% Charge Attack (2x Speed) Hand Axe, Recruit 
 Axe Fighter 35% 50% Charge Attack (2x Speed) Hand Axe, Leather Armor, Wooden Shield, Recruit Sword 
 Fighter 55% 70% Charge Attack (2x Speed) Sword, Long Shield, Iron Armament, Recruit Barbarian* 
 75% 0% Charge Attack (2x Speed) Can't be trained Lance Carrier 25% 50% Attack bonus vs. cavalry 
 Lance, Leather Armor, Recruit Pikeman 35% 70% Attack bonus vs. cavalry Pike, Iron Armament, Recruit 
 Barbarian is only seen a couple of levels (lvl 8, 9, 10) . [edit] Cavalry
  Name Attack Defense Special Requirements Scout 35% 50% Mounted (2x Speed) Hand Axe, Wooden Shield, 
 Leather Armor, Horse, Recruit Knight 55% 70% Mounted (2x Speed) Sword, Iron Armament, Long Shield, 
 Horse, Recruit [edit] Buildings
  Name Requirements Occupation Description Storehouse 6 Timber
  5 Stone None Needed to store all 
 of your goods that you produce. One of the most important buildings in the game. (One of the opponents 
 buildings that have to be destroyed to win.) School House 6 Timber
  5 Stone None Needed to train (make) all the different kinds of workers. E. g. serfs, stonemasons, 
 woodcutters, carpenters, farmers, bakers, butchers, blacksmiths, miners, and recruits. All of these 
 are necessary in winning the game. Inn 6 Timber
  5 Stone None Needed to hold your food so citizens may eat and stay alive! Quarry 3 Timber
  2 
 Stone Stonemason Needed to make stone for building your buildings and for making roads. Woodcutter's 
 3 Timber
  2 Stone Woodcutter Needed to make timber for eventually making wood for your buildings. Sawmill 
 4 Timber
  3 Stone Carpenter Needed to make wood for your buildings. The carpenter takes the timber from the 
 woodcutter's hut and makes it into wood. Farm 4 Timber
  3 Stone Farmer Needed to make corn for your mill to eventually make bread and for the swine farm 
 to eventually make sausage. Mill 4 Timber
  3 Stone Baker Needed to make flour for the baker who makes it into bread. Bakery 4 Timber
  3 
 Stone Baker Needed to make bread for the inn to feed your town. Swine Farm 4 Timber
  3 Stone Animal Breeder Needed to make pigs for your butchery which will eventually turn into sausage. 
 Butcher's 4 Timber
  3 Stone Butcher Needed to make sausage for the inn to feed your town. Tannery 4 Timber
  3 Stone 
 Butcher Needed to make leather to eventually be made into armor. Vineyard 4 Timber
  3 Stone Farmer Needed to make wine for the inn to feed your town. Coal Mine 3 Timber
  2 Stone 
 Miner Needed to produce coal for the iron smithies to eventually be made into armor and also for 
 the metallurgist shop to be made into gold. Gold Mine 3 Timber
  2 Stone Miner Needed to produce gold ore for the metallurgist shop to eventually be made into gold. 
 Iron Mine 3 Timber
  2 Stone Miner Needed to produce iron ore for the iron smithy to eventually be made into iron. Metallurgist's 
 4 Timber
  3 Stone Metallurgist Makes gold for your school out of gold ore and coal. Iron Smithy 4 Timber
 
  3 Stone Metallurgist Needed to produce iron bars for the armor smithy and weapon smithy to eventually 
 be made into armor and weapons. Weapon Smithy 4 Timber
  3 Stone Blacksmith Needed to make iron weapons for the barracks. Armor Smithy 4 Timber
  3 Stone 
 Blacksmith Needed to make iron armor and iron shields for the barracks. Weapons Workshop 4 Timber
 
  3 Stone Carpenter Needed to produce weapons for the barracks. Armory Workshop 4 Timber
  3 Stone Carpenter Needed to produce leather armor and wooden shields for the barracks. Barracks 
 6 Timber
  6 Stone Recruits Needed to produce armies to battle the opponent with. Stables 6 Timber
  5 Stone 
 Animal Breeder Needed to produce horses for the castle with. Watchtower 3 Timber
  2 Stone Recruit Needed to help protect your town from invaders by throwing stones at them. [edit] 
 Sequels
  Knights and Merchants: The Peasants Rebellion (TPR) (2001)
  
  [edit] External links
  Dutch Fansite German Fansite English Fansite Official website Official 
 forum Knights and Merchants: The Shattered Kingdom at MobyGames Knights and Merchants: The Shattered 
 Kingdom at Home of the Underdogs Developer Joymania Development Linux port Stardock line of products 
 Object Desktop Products DesktopX | IconPackager | ObjectBar | SkinStudio | WindowBlinds | WindowFX 
 TotalGaming. net Games (developed, published) BreakQuest | Chrome SpecForce | Corporate Machine 
 | Disciples II | Earth 2150 | Flatspace | Galactic Civilizations | GalCiv II: Dread Lords - Dark 
 Avatar | Gish | Jets'n'Guns | Knights and Merchants | O. R. B | Pizza Frenzy | Political Machine 
 | Reaktor | Society | Trash | Uplink | WordWars | Xeno Assault II WinCustomize Products BootSkin 
 | Desktop Pet | Natural Desktop | ObjectDock Other Products DirectSkin | Stardock Central | TweakVista 
 | StyleVista | ThinkDesk (Multiplicity) | DeskScapes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coopichah
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 18, 2006 8:29 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed trying to figure out how to get a thriving community going. It's very involving. The 
 hardest thing is the control of your army, they have minds of their own. Plus you have to feed 
 them and anytime someone walks through their formation they get confused. There really isn't any 
 retreat so once they engage they stay engage untill they die or the enemy dies. It seems a little 
 too much to worry about. I still enjoy it, it just needs a few bugs worked out. Not a bad game to 
 play, especially now that you can buy it for under $10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 5.8
Date: May 29, 2006 7:08 am PT
Review:  K and M, a great game.
  I played this game in the old times, but it was very old and very hard.
  I liked the fact, that 
 you have to maintain a village and gather recources and expand your city.
  
  Gameplay:
  +Nice recource gathering.
  +Cool cavalry and warfare.
  +Good animation effects.
  +Long and 
 challenging campaign.
  -Limited game.
  -Takes hours to finally attack enemy and gather recources.
  -Sometimes much too hard.
  
  
 Graphics:
  +Runs good, on a old computer.
  -Does not look very good, very settler style and old.
  
  Sounds:
  +Old sounds but cool.
 
  +Nice music.
  -Some sounds a bit lame.
  
  Online:
  +LAN, which is nice, but you dont want to play hours with a friend.
  -Boring and too long.
 
  
  Value:
  +Replay value.
  -You wish the campaign was easier.
  
  Variety:
  +/- Mediocre, lots of soldiers and units you can build. 
  
  Overall K and M is a good game. 
 cya all..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chriss1987
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 7, 2006 7:39 am PT
Review:  Knights & Merchants is a very good game, especially for 1998.
  It is simular to Age of Empires 2, and the graphics were not too bad too.
  I really loved playing 
 it because it looks very real, you saw everybody working for you and it had great missions. 
  The overall control was not enough, but it doesnt matter that much when you play it longer.
  
 
  There is some nice music in the game too, and I really think a 5.5 is way too low for this game.
 
  
  It also runs of a very low end pc, so it is good to play on ur old p2.
  I recommend this game only to people with a low end pc. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
