-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Knights of the Temple II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/knightsofthetemple2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The combat is fun and looks cool.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Putrid mouse and keyboard controls.
 laughable bugs that can kill your character and break the game.
 boring quests and small environments to explore.
 uninteresting story and characters.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 15, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.1
Critic Score: 5.3, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 205 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Take-Two Interactive
Developer: Cauldron Ltd.
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date:     Feb 23, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The respectable combat system isn't enough to gloss over hideous bugs, a dull plot, and rotten controls. 
 

  After playing Knights of the Temple II, it's hard to believe that the first game in the series 
 could have been popular enough to inspire such a frustrating sequel. Insane bugs, broken missions, 
 and impossibly stupid controls will make you want to bash your head against your keyboard in disgust. 
 Quality assurance went out the window on this game, which is too bad, because there's some fun 
 combat and nifty boss encounters buried underneath the annoyances. Sadly, you have to wade through 
 a lot of muck to get to the enjoyable parts.  

          These guys look dangerous, but you need to be most careful of the stairways.     

  
 Knights is a combat-focused role-playing game, and sure enough, you jump into the plate boots of 
 medieval hero Paul de Raque, who sports a nice wide helmet and mutters about the "one true God." 
 You're looking for three objects that will allow you to close a portal that's letting in the usual 
 legions of undead. On the way, you fight a bunch of baddies and complete some half-baked collection 
 quests. The story is barely cohesive and made worse by apparent references within the dialogue 
 to the original Knights of the Temple, which never reached American shores.  

  But first you'll need to figure out how to get around, and this is where you'll quickly discover 
 the game's console roots. It was released on the Xbox and PlayStation 2 in the UK in late 2005. 
 But it seems that a year wasn't enough time to implement workable third-person controls with a 
 mouse and keyboard. The default control scheme doesn't even use the mouse buttons, nor can you 
 remap important combat controls that are permanently assigned to the numeric keypad. You can try 
 to play this way, but the camera continues to move a little bit beyond where you move the mouse, 
 and the effect is a lot of wobbliness that makes you feel seasick. So you can plug a gamepad in, 
 but you should be prepared to head to the keyboard from time to time because the buttons won't 
 always work the way they're supposed to, particularly in menus and dialogue trees.  

  Once you finally get moving, you'll find that Knights isn't really an RPG as much as it is a third-person 
 action game with some role-playing trappings, such as improving skill and purchasing different 
 weapons. As you progress, you earn experience points that you then spend to improve your combat 
 expertise, unlock combos, and upgrade other special abilities. The combat, when it's in full gear, 
 is challenging and a lot of fun because you get a good number of different skills and attacks to 
 perform. Battles are deliberate without being slow, and swinging a heavy weapon feels weighty and 
 satisfying. You can switch over to a bow if you like, but it's handy only in boss encounters and 
 in other situations with unhurried enemies. In fact, those boss scenes are the best moments of 
 the game, such as defeating a huge ogre in freefall descent.  

  Every other aspect of the game requires an inordinate amount of patience, more than any reasonable 
 person possesses. First and foremost among the frustrations is the litany of ludicrous bugs you 
 must endure. In medieval times, climbing stairs was apparently a dangerous activity because doing 
 so at just the wrong angle can cause Paul to jitter madly, take an enormous amount of fall damage, 
 and die. Perhaps the heavy armor is tough on the knees? If you take quests in an order that the 
 game doesn't expect, you will also get stuck in an endless dialogue loop and force a restart. At 
 certain points, the camera zooms in and out uncontrollably, again forcing you to restart. And whatever 
 you do, don't patch. The published patches add StarForce copy protection and consequently require 
 a CD key to play, but Knights of the Temple II doesn't ship with a CD key in the US, so if you 
 patch, you can't start the game.  

  Then there are the questing and traveling, which are incredibly boring and more linear than the 
 retail box would lead you to believe. You can visit the three main cities and complete quests in 
 any order you desire, but the areas are small and the 18 available side quests never get more exciting 
 than "find me some food rations," "find me a plant," and "find me some pearls." But because there 
 isn't always an obvious path, you're stuck hitting the "talk" button with every non-player character 
 you pass to see if one of them will help move the main quest along. The dialogue is terrible, and 
 not a single character is remotely interesting. Even during the forced moments of sentiment, Paul 
 is never anything more than a dullard in a big metal suit.  

          This dude is wishing you peace in Arabic. He must know how much time you spent making the 
 controls work properly.     

  Like the gameplay, Knights looks and sounds best when you're in combat. Swinging a weapon and using 
 your healing spell fill the screen with vivid sword trails and vibrant particles. The sound also 
 follows suit with appropriately stirring clangs and swooshes. There are some decent environments 
 and set pieces, such as an underground lair where you meet a hulking scorpion. On the other hand, 
 most areas are defined by their bland colors and washed-out textures. Some of the animations are 
 jerky and look incomplete. There isn't a lot of spoken dialogue, but what's there isn't particularly 
 good, and the generic soundtrack gets the job done without being noteworthy.  

  There's also an online multiplayer component for up to eight players in Knights of the Temple II, 
 but there was never anyone online over the course of several days, nor did anyone ever join the 
 games we created, even after being up for hours. Of course, with such plain game types as deathmatch, 
 team deathmatch, and the hilariously titled capture-the-grail mode, it doesn't seem that anyone 
 is missing much. Once you struggle through the dozen or so hours of single-player gameplay, there's 
 no reason to return, not even for the alternate endings promised on the box. And it's too bad because 
 the combat system is quite good and deserves to be in a better game than this one.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Bogeyman009
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 23, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  This is the second game in this series and authors of it should stop creating such disastrous product.
 
  
  You take the role of a medieval knight in this game. Your objective is to prevent evil from entering 
 the earth. So, as you see, the storyline is plain and sickened. But this part of a game could be 
 offset by good graphic, nice game-play and interesting characters, but creators of this game failed 
 to do that.
  
  Graphic of this game looks childish and a little bit stupid, there also are a lot of bugs which 
 can kill your character. The work of camera is stupid, sometimes you just can't see your knight. 
 The audio part of this game is a lot of better than video part. There are some beautiful melodies 
 in the soundtrack of this game and fighting scenes sounds well too.
  
  Only one interesting part of this game is fighting system which is really fun and enjoyable. After 
 killing your enemies or doing some quests you get experience points which can be transformed into 
 some abilities or new 
  fighting moves. It look a little bit like RPG but it lacks of depth in order to call this game 
 real RPG.
  
  There are three big cities in this game. You should find an artifact in each of it. These artifacts 
 are used to open a gate into a Hell where you should stop Evil from entering the Earth. Environment 
 of those cities are very small and there are not much to see and explore. Citizens can offer you 
 some side quests, which can make your game a little bit more interesting, but there too little 
 of such quests and all game lacks of variety. There also are some different type weapons and armory, 
 but it aso lacks of variety.
  
  For conclusion, I want to say that this game is not total crap, but it lacks of variety, better 
 graphic interface and there also are a lot of bugs. It looks like authors of this game were hurrying 
 to publish it as fast as possible and did not pay enough attention to its quality.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: G_Ross_Key
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  The concept of Knights of the Temple II is intriguing and has some potential. Unfortunately, the 
 execution of the game is terrible. I've never been more frustrated with a game's controls than 
 I was with KotT II. After just a few minutes of the tutorial, I wanted to yank the DVD out of my 
 computer and break it up into tiny pieces. The worst part is the camera, which attempts to follow 
 an over-the-shoulder view, but is sluggish and frequently ends up pointing in the wrong direction. 
 You can control the camera with the mouse, but that's often even more frustrating than not attempting 
 to control it at all. I remapped many of the key bindings to make it more like the typical mouse-keyboard 
 combinations most games use, but that wasn't much of an improvement.
  
  The graphics are straight out of the '90s, but I'm willing to forgive subpar visuals if the gameplay 
 makes up for it. In this case, I can't say much for the gameplay because I found the camera and 
 controls so frustrating that I didn't bother to play it after the first punishing ten minutes I 
 spent in the tutorial and then playing the game itself.
  
  I spent $19 on this at CompUSA, discounted as the stores tries to empty its shelves, and I feel 
 like that was a little too much. If it hit the bargain bin at $9, I probably wouldn't feel so bad 
 about having spent any money on it, but at $19, I would've been better off grabbing something else. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themesmith
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 5, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  I don't think it was that hard eaither it would be nice if the keep on making these games I liked 
 it its only 20.00 bucks so its worth atleast a shot whatever you do don't try and patch the US 
 version the patches don't work and it installes Starforce and everbody knows thats a pain especilly 
 since the us version has no cd/dvd key overall a good game I don't think you'll be to disapointed 
 look how long it took for the US to get it wish there would have been more of the side missions 
 so give it a shot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malester
Rating: 5.7
Date: Nov 13, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  This game I had high hopes for becuase I enjoyed the original. The first game wasnt all that detailed 
 for story line, it was just medieval fighting, was a decent time killer. This game seemed to have 
 more of storyline better graphics but game play and fun factor are horrid. Unfortunatly this game 
 blows. Its almost impossible to get into this game, I really tried, I wanted to like this game, 
 but the touch just wasnt there. wow its really hard to type 100 words about a crappy game that 
 you only played around with for an hour or so. Yeah I hope this is 100 words or im gonna be mad 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benhalcyon
Rating: 4.9
Date: Mar 4, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  With no review from Gamespot on this game (I only really trust this site) , I lingered on whether 
 or not this would be a decent game to get. Since I love those medieval-era action/adventure games, 
 I decided to go for it.
  
  It isn't necessarily a horrible game, but that doesn't really mean it's a decent one either. I'll 
 just start from how the game treats you from when you actually start the game, and when you are 
 playing.
  
  When I get to a title screen, I usually goto the video settings first thing. Going to the menu, 
 I find only three options that directly adjust the quality (the others are brightness, gamma, etc.) . 
 The filter method seems to have no effect whatsoever. Other than the resolution, and generic "Graphic 
 Level" you have no control over how the game will look. If you have a slower card, you can't turn 
 off shadows or shader effects. 
  
  But that doesn't even mean the game has good graphics. From a distance it looks very dark, and 
 grungy. With nice shadows and a very depressed drab look (in a good way) . Up-close, it's all bland 
 and un-detailed. The NPCs are used over and over, and for no predictable reason you'll come across 
 one that says one phrase that does absolutely nothing for the story (such as, '*Cough* *Cough*') . 
 Which makes you wonder, why even make a sound clip for the NPC (which you'll find countless others 
 saying the same one) if it doesn't really do anything?
  
  Then you get to the tutorial. Basically that means you run around a ( for the most part) un-related 
 level while very vague (and sometimes inaccurate) pop-ups are thrown at you telling you how some 
 of the mechanics work. For example, when it first tells you about the special abilities menu, it 
 tells you to try to use "Curatio" (which is the game's name for heal) , bad thing is it doesn't 
 give you points into the option which in turn means you cannot use it. Although sometimes special 
 abilities won't work (in the main quest) for no obvious reason. The tutorial, as a whole, just 
 leaves you guessing about some things, and you go into the game not fully knowing how most of the 
 things work.
  
  When you finally go for the singleplayer campaign, you'll be treated to the traditional introduction 
 movie that tries to sum up the last game and set the story in motion. Although the graphics engine 
 isn't fantastic, it does do a competent job at rendering "scenes". But it's the NPCs that set everything 
 off. The character's heads are bland, with no detailed features. When they talk, nothing moves 
 on their faces. The basics of the faces in this game is usually a blurry blob with barely distinquishable 
 eyes and maybe a mouth. Not to mention their limbs are very "diamond"-like. In which, they taper 
 off at joints such as the elbow. And last time I checked, most people don't run around with an 
 elbow about the size of 4 inches. But keep in mind, this does not afflict the main character (although 
 the face, and voice parts do) , and his armor shines, and has decent sized biceps. 
  
  But for the most part, the NPCs are usually wearing robes and/or are hunched over so you don't 
 notice the above as much.
  
  The story element of the game is very cookie-cutter. It doesn't really try to throw a curve at 
 you, or keep you guessing. What you see is what you get. For every main level of the game, you 
 run around trying to fiqure out the mini-quests that help you get to the bigger quest. Although 
 this "adventure-mode" is poorly implemented, and once again it's due to the NPCs. 
  
  Now with that out of the way, lets talk about the combat. This is probably the most disappointing 
 feature, and made worse by the fact that it's an action game. The actual combo-system is pretty 
 competent, as far as combo-systems go. But then again, you can't really mess up that seeing as 
 how many people and games have set the example. Though, it does seem a little hard to pull of a 
 desired combo in the heat of combat. Probably because you get hit before you can finish it, your 
 opponent is blocking it, or one of your other opponents hits you in the back while trying to do 
 it. The main problem is that the combot features a lock-on system. Which puts your back to your 
 two or three other enemies, leaving you open to a royal ass-whipping.
  
  The actual fighting, is less fighting, and more hoping you can hit your opponent before he spams 
 his shield, or another one pricks you in the spinal cord. 
  
  Without discussing every detail of this very-lacking game, it's needless to say that it is a disappointing 
 let-down. You should look elsewhere for your medieval-action needs. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
