-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Knights of Honor
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/knightsofhonor/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Incredibly deep medieval strategy simulation.
 More than 100 kingdoms to choose from.
 Diplomacy, war, trade, espionage, and more.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Very slow pace at first.
 Graphics and sound are a little dull.
 Some weak AI.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  7, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.6, 33 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 1,250 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Paradox Interactive
Developer: Black Sea Studios
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Jun 6, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While not for everyone, Knights of Honor is an original, enjoyable, and deep strategy game about 
 the Middle Ages. 

  It's generally hard to be surprised in the real-time strategy genre these days, but you have to 
 give the developers at Black Sea Studios credit, because they've created one of the most original 
 and enjoyable real-time strategy games in recent years. With that said, it should also be noted 
 that Knights of Honor is a game that's not for everyone. This is an incredibly deep medieval kingdom 
 simulation, and it's the closest to actually being able to put you in the ruling seat of a feudal 
 land.  

          Rewrite European history any way you like. In this game, Poland is the top dog of Europe. 
     

  The idea in Knights of Honor is that you can take command of one of more than 100 different European 
 countries from three different eras of European history. Your goal is to survive and expand. This 
 means that you have to arrange marriages to ensure an heir for your ruling family, as well as improve 
 your economy, make diplomatic and trade agreements with other countries, and assemble armies to 
 stamp out rebels and wage war on your enemies. You can even dispatch members of your royal court 
 to infiltrate enemy courts to spy. The end goal is to accumulate enough political and military 
 might where you either win by score or are crowned the ruler of Europe.  

  There's no question that Knights of Honor is a deeply ambitious game, but somehow it works, thanks 
 to a somewhat elegant interface and some well thought-out game mechanics. Basically, it's best 
 to think of Knights of Honor as a continual-time game, because it's not really a clickfest. The 
 game plays at a generally steady pace, during which you'll spend a lot of time managing your kingdom. 
 A single game can easily cover centuries of European history (not to mention dozens of hours in 
 actual playing time) , and one of our major complaints with it is that there is no sense of time 
 passing by.  

  At the heart of your empire are provinces, each of which contains a central town that must be conquered 
 if you wish to control the entire province. These towns are the source of your armies, food, wealth, 
 and more, and some towns may have access to bonus resources that others don't. For example, a town 
 with rich pastureland can support sheep and cattle, which not only will provide meat, but will 
 support further specialized structures, such as tanners that produce leather. These resources are 
 important, because if you can accumulate enough domestic resources and import certain exotic resources, 
 you may unlock kingdom advantages, which are bonuses that reward extraordinary achievement. For 
 instance, you can boost the agricultural output of each province considerably, as well as increase 
 the size of a town's granary, which determines how long a town can hold out during a siege.  

 
          The royal court system lets you manage heirs, as well as marshals, spies, and more.   
   

  Meanwhile, each town has a limited number of building slots, which means you can't build each city 
 with every improvement. You therefore have to determine what function a city will take. For example, 
 your interior town may produce goods and resources, while your border towns can be fortified to 
 withstand enemy sieges. In addition to a town, each province has a mix of farms, villages, and 
 monasteries that are completely vulnerable to any pillaging army. This means that while on the 
 offensive, you can sack a village or farm for gold, and while on the defensive, you must protect 
 your lands from attack.  

  There are two ways of resolving combat in Knights of Honor. The first is simply to let your marshal 
 (basically a general) fight the battle himself, which allows you to focus on other things, or you 
 can take direct control of your forces on the battlefield. In that case, you drop down to a 2D 
 map of the battlefield and control your forces by choosing formations and maneuvering them on the 
 battlefield. While directing battles can be tricky, it does give you the opportunity to influence 
 the outcome. Your armies can be a mixture of different units, depending on where each unit was 
 recruited. It's possible to create a very powerful (and expensive) cavalry force, a mix of knights, 
 swordsmen, and spearmen, or just a gaggle of poorly trained peasants. Each nation has unique units 
 that it can recruit, as well. Units can gain experience over time, and elite units are worth their 
 weight in gold in battle. Your marshals also gain experience over time, and you can upgrade them 
 with up to six different skills, each of which can be upgraded up to three times. For instance, 
 the dread skill means that enemy armies will lose morale when facing that general. At higher levels, 
 the dread skill increases the morale loss.  

  Knights of Honor also benefits from having a deliberate old-school look to it. The game takes place 
 entirely in 2D, and the graphical style lets it look and feel different. It also looks good, in 
 a quaint way. That's not meant as a criticism, but it's very much a game where the focus is on 
 the gameplay and not on the graphics. If anything, the look of Knights of Honor seems fitting, 
 since this is a game of the Middle Ages. The map is rendered with nice pastoral touches, like eagles 
 flying in the sky or villagers hauling goods to town to sell.  

          You can control battles directly, but it's easier and simpler to let the computer handle 
 them.     

  The game does have a number of flaws, though. The artificial intelligence, though improved from 
 the initial European release, is still a bit too easy to manipulate. For example, as soon as a 
 nation declares war on you, all you have to do is request an audience, and odds are they'll agree 
 to make peace immediately. The interface could use a few improvements, as well. In particular, 
 when you're being asked to make or break diplomatic relationships, it would be helpful if the game 
 gave you the status of the nation you're speaking with. When a royal ruler offers up a province 
 to bribe you to enter a diplomatic alliance, it would be helpful to know where that province was. 
 And while your kings age and die, your generals seem immune to the passage of time. The royal court 
 system is a bit strange in that it seems that your king may actually grow younger at times, rather 
 than older. Also, children can age out of order in that the second or third born reach maturity 
 before the firstborn. However, most of these flaws are fairly trivial. The game itself is very 
 stable, and we experienced only one crash during the many hours of play.  

  Knights of Honor ships with multiplayer, but you can't play the epic campaign game in multiplayer. 
 That would probably be impossible to coordinate, anyway. What you can do is battle it out in a 
 variety of historical battles and other gameplay modes, such as town assault. However, it's clear 
 that the single-player game is the strength of Knights of Honor, and the multiplayer game doesn't 
 seem to have much of a following. In summary, this is certainly a game that's not for everyone. 
 But if you're looking for a deep, slow-paced game, and if you love medieval history, it'll be hard 
 to go wrong with Knights of Honor.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (51 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: master_blue
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 3, 2009 11:23 am PT
Review:  Knights of Honor is a real time strategy game centered around Europe, North Africa and the holy 
 land during the medieval ages.
  
  The game allows you to pick from many different kingdoms of various sizes and at three different 
 starting periods (early, high late) , to play as, most tend to have at least one unique unit and 
 some of the major powers a whole host of unique units (such as the Byzantines with their rather 
 nice looking Roman Infantry complete with Chi Rho crosses on each shield) , the idea of the game 
 is to expand your empire, hold it together, fight battles (on a seperate battle map ala Legion/Spartan/Total 
 War) deal with espionage, merchant trading, acquiring luxury resources to build better buildings 
 etc so eventually you can claim the title to be ruler of Europe and win the game.
  
  Graphically the game looks pretty nice, its a fairly old game from 2004 and quite unusually for 
 a RTS game the developers didnt make the game with 3d graphics (that by now would have aged terribly) 
 so the colourful 2d graphics have held up well both on the real time campaign map and on the battle 
 map, complete with day and night cycles.
  
  Sound wise the game is pretty good overall, the voice overs are pretty damn terrible though except 
 for the advisor who greets you when you start the game, before and after battles but, as I have 
 said overall the voices are pretty bad thanks to bad accented voice overs and limited number of 
 vocal respones such as 'this ground looks good!' 'nice spot for us'! gets old real quick.
  The music in the game is good though which helps mitigate the rather poor voice work in the game, 
 the music fits the medieval atmosphere very well with an emphasis on string instruments and light 
 use of drums with flute and theres quite a few tracks in the soundtrack for the game so it doesnt 
 feel repetitive even after quite a few play throughs.
  
  Now onto the gameplay, overall its good, but I feel it could have been great, its a good idea trying 
 to merge the Europa Universalis style of grand real time strategy with the battle system of most 
 real time strategy games (in EU series you dont control you armies on a battle map) but the scale 
 seems off for a start, the unit sizes are very small and peasants, while they dont cause to much 
 of a nuisance later on can overwhelm a army of professional soldiers which is quite infuriating 
 in the beginning stages of the game, coupled with the AI's obsession with building massive mobs 
 of them can be a pain.
  The battles play out like some of the older age of empire series of games and they arnt quite as 
 satisfying to fight as most RTS games which is a shame and the balance between them feels poorly 
 done, cavalry for instance smash moral and killa few troops on charge but becuase their unit numbers 
 are even lower than the already low unit numbers of infantry they quickly get cut to pieces unless 
 your relatively lucky and can run away quickly-because of the cavalry expense and poor performance 
 in battle I seriously recommend just investing in more elite infantry.
  
  There are lots of factions in the game which is a good thing, quite a few have unique units, certain 
 cities have acess to local special units - say Constantinople has access to the famous Varangarian 
 Guard etc but it still feels as though theres only a limited number of troops, 4 basic types (including 
 peasants) , maybe 5 with cavalry I just feel as though there should have been more troop types 
 recruitable, or more variation between what there is.
  
  The building management of the game is done by selecting your city and clicking a blank square 
 and you get rpesented with three tabs which list various buildings, first is military, second town 
 improvements and lastly special buildings, you can see what benefits you can from each one - and 
 the reason why you shouldnt build a mix of army and town improvement buildings at most your cities 
 is because various ones have different special resources, if a town has marble deposits, quarry 
 and fields that is a city worth investing town improvements then special improvements to get access 
 to more special resources and trade goods.
  The idea is to specialise your cities because it takes quite a few military improvements to have 
 access to the better units in the game.
  
  Now while their are alot of cities in the game some regions in the game feel as though they dont 
 have enough, theres 'Palestina' and Antioch representing the entirey of the crusader kingdoms - 
 and heck Jeruslaem only gets Palestina and no unique army unit doesnt stand a chance, also North 
 Africa can feel a little barren at times, what Im getting at here is that there should be more 
 cities and provinces in the game.
  
  Now another interesting aspect of the game is the character management system, you cant select 
 any troop and lead them into battle instead your limited to a few character slots , you have to 
 promote a knight to a marshall and thats what you send into towns to attach an army to (which obviously 
 costs resources that also get replenished in the game automatically in time) then you can command 
 that army on the strategic map itself and go off expanding the kingdom or putting down rebels. 
 The more they fight the more experience they gain and they can level up to acquire up to 6 unique 
 abilities which again can be improved 3 times, for instance 'healer' will replenish your troops 
 losses at 20% for the first level then I think up to 60% max at third level , another skill might 
 be siege engineering at level 1 you can acquire ladder bearers, level 2 ballistas and catapults 
 etc (so long as the town has a siege workshop built
  )
  Also you can promote a person to be a builder and they have an impact on building times with any 
 province they govern - id say theyre the least worthwhile of the bunch.
  Then theres merchants which you can use to trade for resources whcih you might not have at a cost 
 or for a bit of gold.
  Landlords can provide more food and resist enemy armies that might be beseiging the province they 
 are governing.
  
  Also theres Clerics which you can use to try and convert a province - which costs alot of gold 
 and 'piety' -also you can educate for a thousand books to make them more effective ealong wtih 
 other specialists like merchant etc (all of these resources get replenished in time depending on 
 number of churches, libraries etc) but be careful sometimes your cleric can end up dying failing 
 to convert a province as such happened with my Eastern Roman king *tear*
  
  Lastly theres spies which I think are pretty annoying but for now they can defend against rival 
 spies passively or go on active infiltration missions into other kingdoms courts and can bribe 
 marshalls etc.
  
  Now since you can only have a rather small number of characters in your kingdom you reall have 
 to think carefully how many marshalls are truly necessary to maintain and wage war in your kingdom, 
 how many merchants, if you need a cleric at all etc etc this can be quite the limitation factor 
 in the rate of expansion to your kingdom however it can also be pretty offputting to a player who 
 wants to have more freedom of control in their strategy games, and I felt it was abit to restricting 
 because it made large empire management a real pain having to send armies back and forth from one 
 end of the mediterranean to the other to put down revolts which would occur with upsetting regularity! 
 even with maximum kingdom power, same religion low nostalgia rating
  
  - which ill explain now, the 'Kingdom Power' is a representation of your kingdoms strength, you 
 can increase this by clicking on the circle in the top left of the screen for alot of gold which 
 increases even more each time until you have a max of 5 (it can go as low as -5) it naturally decreases 
 each time you break an agreement with someone or go to war for no justifiable reason, the higher 
 the power the more gold you might reap every few seconds and less revolts - the happier people 
 generally will be in your empire.
  And nostaglia rating represents how people from a province conquered look back and want to remain 
 within the previous rulers civilization say I conquer corsica, the inhabitants will have a high 
 nostalgia rating for quite some time and maybe revolt against my rule representing themselves as 
 freedom fighters or wanting to join once again with the previous owner Italy etc
  Its a interesting idea just a shame rebel revolts occur so frequently even with same religion aswell!!
 
  
  Now the reason I think spies are annoying in this game is because when a AI spy or you infiltrate 
 a rival kingdom you subvert one of their characters at court and theres a very VERY limited number 
 of court characters you can have so when one is a spy its very very annoying and furthermore that 
 character whos a turn coat might be one of your marshalls your leading to war and suddenly.. hes 
 imprisoned but his army has now either disappeared or formed into a mercenary tent which appears 
 on the campaign map to offer their services to any visiting marshall... great! I can accept some 
 byzantine power games so whats the real reason I *hate* the spying system in the game?
  "Bad news Sire your marshalls are revolting!" yes! all of my precious marshalls who ive spent time 
 levelling up have no revolted against me with all their elite troops and siege equipment!! Brilliant 
 gameplay addition!
  
  The over arching gameplay theme in the game is resource management, from number of troops you create 
 , trade goods you acquire and careful careful management of royal court characters but thats not 
 all theres also 'Kingdom Advantages' to acquire by trading when you have built admilarity (upgrades 
 from fishing village, building a dock then upgrading that) to bring in exotic goods like ivory, 
 amber, gem stones etc and if you get the necessary exotic goods (and you can only acquire 1 per 
 admilarity built so 1 per town) then you gain a kingdom advantage which may be something like the 
 enlightenment which increases number of books made (and books are used to train court characters 
 excluding marshalls) etc
  
  The game itself can feel a little slow at times but easily remedied by increasing the game speed 
 to 8x normal with a few presses of the + key and that includes the battle maps aswell - it can 
 be necessary to up the speed because buildings can take a long time to build in the game - although 
 to fans of Europa Universalis series of games and slower turn based strategy games we probably 
 have the patience not to really be affected by the build times in Knights of Honor.
  
  To win the game you need to become ruler of Europe by either having enough provinces (as in most 
 of the map which takes ages and by that time you'll be bored) or by claiming the title yourself 
 which then goes of for a vote, which is almost always a 'No' vote and you end up at war with everyone 
 and have to conquer them anyways, the game could really have done with a few more ways to emerge 
 victorious.
  
  The Longevity of Knights of Honor is quite high due to the numerous different factions to play 
 as and the three different starting periods and if you do find yourself getting addicted to the 
 game (time can fly by pretty quick at times playing this) then you'll probably come back to play 
 again a few times however you'll notice inevitably that theres a few limiting factors in the game, 
 not many unit types , not many ways to win battles are rather small scale affairs and lose their 
 charm after a while, annoying voice overs , the very very irritating fact that on startup you cant 
 immediately skip the two logo movies that appear is so infuriatingly stupid that I actually feel 
 the need to mention it as a negative point in this review, its little things that add up that hold 
 back this game from greatness.
  
  Should also quickly mention multiplayer, it only features the battle side of things which is poor 
 , most fans of this game were probably attracted to it intially by the scale of the strategy and 
 the map not just the battles.
  
  But at least its very cheap these days and is worth at ry - you can even get it as part of the 
 'Medieval Triology' which comes with Patrician III and Tortuga for no more than ten pounds.
  
  Pros:
  *Nice graphical presentation
  *Nice music
  *Scale of the game - lots to choose 
 from
  *Resource system
  *Optional real time battles
  *Doesnt require the disc (mine is the 3 medieval pack though)
  *Inexpensive these days
  *it 
 really is a good idea and a decent enough attempt of a grand RTS game with controllable battlees.
 
  
  Cons
  *Bad voice overs
  *Unskippable intro logo movies
  *Limited number of troop types
  *the battles are not all that fun
  *certain units feel unbalanced
 
  *the royal court is an interesting idea but feels like a overall negative one
  holding the player back
  *Limited number of victory conditions
  *overpowered and silly Spies
 
  *revolts feel to frequent especially given the lack of marshals the player can employ to police 
 the increasing empires they will have
  *can get repetitive after a while of playing since every game can feel samey
  *scope of multiplayer 
 is a missed oppertunity!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eggiebertus
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2009 1:23 pm PT
Review:  We're talking about a deep and immersive game here with a relatively detailed map of Europe divided 
 in three era's, covering all the aspects of kings and queens, vassalage, war, friendship, romance, 
 adventure.. what? 
  
  It covers the middle-ages, so no tulip speculation, no new-world but a lot of crusades. It feels 
 a bit like Europa Universalis but it's much easier and quicker. (and on a smaller scale.) You can 
 even direct the battles, but i never do it. The army's are clumsy and die quickly, and you can 
 wage war much cheaper and gain much more experience letting your general's fight. 
  
  It's basic gameplay is comparable to Total War, too, but the battles aren't quite as good. The 
 overhead view is better though, and this is where I played this game. 
  
  About the graphics. This game isn't 3D, but it's 2D graphics are very well done for such a low 
 resolution. They create a lovely atmosphere and i can look at it much longer than at a cheap 3d 
 engine. 
  
  The charming voice that narrates this game says you can win this game playing a merchant king or 
 a spy-master but you'll only use this a bit in the beginning of your game. As the game progresses 
 you'll just rush into all your neighbour's territory's with your knights and eventually you'll 
 have an income in the hundreds or even thousands in gold (eventually only depending on the odd 
 inflation system; if you hoard money and do not spend it, your income will decrease.) and you won't 
 have to really think about your actions anymore. 
  
  You have nine knights, which is also the number of roaming army's that you can have at the maximum, 
 but I usually have only 3 of my knights function as 'Marshals' (generals) . You can also have spies, 
 merchants, clerics (can become pope's or patriachs) , Land-lords (a strange food-creator) and Builders. 
 (...)
  
  A lot is happening in Knights of Honor. Other country's conquer their foes, nation's get united 
 (like Russia or Ireland or whatever) the pope commissions crusades which create crusader kingdom's 
 that can also grow into empire's or you're king dies without an heir and you're entire Empire scatter's 
 into hundreds of individual states (1 per province) .
  
  It can feel quite weird having your king dying if you own half of Europe. A fun feature is that 
 all the autonomous regions that can come into existence while playing the game can grow to become 
 enormous empire's. If province Friesland split's from your empire you could be looking at a Fresian 
 empire later in the game.
  
  There are three diffulty level's. With easy you can conquer the world with the Highlands right 
 away, with Normal you need to conquer Ireland and Lothian with a horde of peasants first, build 
 up and thn conquer the world and finally with Hard you'll need to get some money frst, then conquer 
 Ireland and Lothian with 'several' hordes of peasants, and thn conquer the world... Enfin.
  
  It's not suprising to find the final goal to be to conquer all of Europe, since this is just 
 a insane, easy game with endless layer's of deep and weird awesomelike Medieval traditionods and 
 rebel nationalist who will let Denmark rise from her own ashes just when you're slaughtering the 
 pope, the spanish and the russians at the same time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackknive
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 2:50 am PT
Review:  just the game i was looking for..... try the demo it will hook you.. should be remade (more later) ..... beautiful 
 maps artwork....... voice acting is good ..... music just right... strategy elements are all there, 
 blending classic board game style military-developement management challenges with thrilling "special 
 characters" that bring their unique improvable abilities into the mix. These characters add further 
 dimension to the ever popular City/resource management..... mititary developement...... religous 
  and more. bringing this game to life!! 
  
  maps are gorgeous... you literally get lost in all their history and glory!
  
  to be fair to 
 the reader... (as you can tell i'm quite taken by "knights of honor")
  the battle engine is very 2D and dated...:- (
  bringing us to the hope of a remake.... if only 
 the soul of this game could be recaptured and combined with a Rome Total War style battle engine....
 
  well see for yourself....... try and then buy Knights of Honor.... if you can find a copy........ copy?? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yakaspat
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 23, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  I purchased Knights of Honor (KoH) when it first came out, in it's retail box version, and played 
 it four a couple years. I fell in love with the unique gameplay mechanics, colorful and friendly 
 graphics and menus, light hearted atmosphere, and incredible replayability. However, my CDROM eventually 
 stopped working for some odd reason, and I soon moved on to other games.
  
  I happened upon the Gamergate website last week and found that they were now selling KoH for a 
 pretty cheap price, as a download only game, and to my amazement, the game had been purchased by 
 a new developer (Black Sea Studios) that had subsequently released a new patch for the game!
  
  I immediately downloaded and have fallen in love with this incredible game all over again. 
 The game dated extremely well, indeed, it still looks brand new. It looks absolutely fantastic 
 on my widescreen monitor, and although the tractical real-time battles are nothing compared with 
 those in Medieval II Total War, the strategy map, which is the core of the game, is as fun and 
 challenging as it was four years ago. The strategy map is similar to that found in Medieval 2, 
 but can be changed via a button to a more Europa Universalis mode as well. The number of diplomatic 
 options, gameplay choices, random events, family dynasty system, warfare model, rebellions, civil 
 wars, unification questions, etc, all combine to make this one of the most replayable, and enjoyable, 
 strategy games to date.
  
  I highly recommend Knights of Honor to any medieval gaming fan or serious strategy gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razr777
Rating: 10
Date: May 9, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  The game is great! I have played all kinds of Strategy games, but I wanted to see what the Bulgarians 
 have made ... and I was quite surprised - the game was extremely addictive at some times - when 
 I started playing I did not want to stop till I finish the whole campaign I start :)
  Scores:
  Graphics: Little retro style, but just great. Looks great even on very slow machines 
 - 10
  Sound: Very Good - 10
  Gameplay: Just perfect for me - 10
  Made in my country - Bulgaria - 10
  
  If you love Strategy games YOU HAVE TO PLAY IT :)
  
 They've said what I was thinking :)
  
  Quotes from other users:
  
  "Knights of Honor is a tragically underrated, very deep, very fun, very addictive strategy game."
 
  
  "Amazing Game... but Not For Everyone "
  
  "BEST STRATEGY GAME I HAVE EVER PLAYED"
  
  "All i can say is that it is awesome. It proves that a game doesn't need to have the latest 
 3d technology to be a good game. It has better gameplay than some of those games to be honest. 
 It never gets boring. I hope that you will love it as much as i do."
  
  "That game just rocks , so many nations to play , different units and good balance :) And if you 
 get some mods for better AI or any other mods from the official forum the game becomes just perfect 
 ."
  
  And many many more I wasn't able to read or post :) ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hesham_eraqi
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 
 -- --
  -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 
 -- --
  This game is the best game I've ever played untill this day!
  such an amazing, factual gameplay.
  Great game that u'll never feel u wasted your time playing 
 it.
  That game will totally attract you.
  -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 
 -- --
  -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 
 -- --
  -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 
 -- --
  -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 
 -- -- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartanian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  My english is too limites so i cant write a proper review:)
  I played it all.. from AOE1 to MTW2 (i was a vet mtw1/mtw2 player)
  but KOH is realy somethin special.
 
  
  Never got so much fun playing a game.
  The graphic style, music, voice actors, gameplay... gives the game so much atmosphere, u realy feel 
 like ur in a medieval world, managing ur kingdom.
  There is so much to do in this outstanding RTS/worldmap/worlddomination mix, u never get bored.
 
  
  Its all in 2d, (maybe thats the reason why the game was not popular) but it fits (once u get used 
 to the 2d) very nice the medieval age and gave the game a realy superb atmosphere.
  
  Just test the Demo, learn the basics, and then learn by playing, i garant u cant stop playing this 
 anymoore, when u see how much options u got to manage ur kingdom (great diplomacy, spys, knightystem...... just 
 test it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Wii
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Now at first glance you may think this review is a bit to "positive" and you may dismiss it as 
 "fanboyish" but I say to you now the game realy is a game that may have been lost in the white 
 nose of "larger" stratagy games.
  
  Let me point out how the game works, if you've every played the Total War series consider this 
 the grown up alternative. I will be honest your going to have to look passed the 2D graphics and 
 see that KoH has an amazingly indepth gameplay. So lets get started shall we!
  
  When you download the demo from this very site you'll be able to play the game from two prespectives, 
 Bohima (a vassel of Germany) , and Scotland (free and indapendent at this time) , those are your 
 only choices in the demo version though if you buy the full version you'll be able to chose any 
 of the other nations (yah thats right... sadly Total War only lets you pick "most" of the nations, 
 where as KoH and its cousin Europa Universalis 3 allow you to chose any nation... go Paradox) . 
 Now before you jump into the grand campeign take the time to do the titorial, at first it seems 
 very basic and if your a stratagy gamer you'll pick up on a ton of the concepts very quickly, but 
 like all good games its origonal in most aspects so controling your nation down to the last gold 
 peice will require knowledge.
  
  Once you've conqured the titorial you can jump into your first real game (as Bohima or Scotland) . 
 At this time I'd recomend Scotland, only because they are indapendent and not vassels, for those 
 who don't know vasselised nations are "atonumos" but pay a fair ammount of tax to an overlord nation, 
 and Bohima starts as a vassel of Germany (as mentioned before) . So I would recomend for your frist 
 run Scotland. Now this isn't a stratagy on how to play KoH, so I'll get back to the review.
  
  The graphics are all 2D which in this day and age is sadly considered behind the curve. On 
 the upside if you see 2D graphics as an "art style" you'll love KoH, all of Europe is neatly done 
 in glorious 2D from rivers and mountians to shimering waterfalls. The detail level is fairly high 
 and just adding walls to your cities will show up on the main map.
  
  Now I'm going to break up gameplay into two parts, battle and rule:
  
  Battles are frought 
 by the AI or by the player and they are similar to 2D versions of Total War. The startagy involved 
 can be simplistic or coplex depending on how you wish to play the game. If you attack or defend 
 on a river it gives you major bonuses or negatives, such as forcing all your men onto rafts while 
 you sail accrosed the river. When defending or attacking a castle you get to attack the gates and 
 walls, and so forth amazingly it contains a fair ammount of depth.
  
  Now the game is all "real time" as in its not turn based, so if you play it on easy and command 
 a battle the default is that the game pauses during a battle, if you play on hard you have no choice 
 the game continues during the battle so cities and so forth can be attacked while you duke it out 
 on the feild of valor. If you like the dificulty set to high it may be recomended that you let 
 the AI do the battles while you cordinate the whole war.
  
  Once you've gained victory (or defeat) your generals (marshals in KoH) gain XP which they can use 
 on skills like Dread which makes your enemies moral drain faster or Command which makes your troops 
 moral drain slower. Even skills like enginering allow your general to use siege equipement such 
 as catipults and battering rams.
  
  Now the second part of the game is your rule over your nation, you have a royal court which can 
 be commanded to do various activies such as trade, govern a town (for increased income) or even 
 spy (amont other options) . While ruling your nation you can have diplomatic releastions with other 
 nations, such as trade agreements which allow you to send merchants to their lands or even no aggression 
 pacts all the way to alliances. If you have an alliance and you go to war you can request that 
 your allies join you this is important as while playing Bohemia I saw the massive nation of Germany 
 taken down but a bunch of small nations due to its lack of allies.
  
  The sound in the game is solid, you'll hear eagles cry as they soar above your mountains and armies 
 march accrosed the feilds of battle, even the water crashing as it goes over the edge of a water 
 fall. The game hosts a fair ammount of sound detail and randomly plays era correct music.
  
  Now the major downfall of KoH is the lack of a grand campeign multiplayer, though the solo 
 game is enough to keep you busy for hours you'll wish you could command a whole nation against 
 the worlds most dangerous prey... humans!!! The game does host a battle mutliplayer but on its 
 own you may as well go play Total War, for KoH shines as a whole game not part of a game.
  
  All in all KoH is an amazingly well done product that could use some slight improvements (such 
 as an increase in AI smarts) but aside form minor flaws it'll suck you in and keep you there for 
 a while. I personaly recomend the demo, its a great way to see if you like it, the main campeign 
 has every province open to you, though you can only develop so high and saving isn't an option 
 so its realy just a taste. If you do decide to buy it, it took me a bit to figure out where to 
 buy the game these days, which you can find at www. gamersgate. com for $19.99 (which is a fair price 
 I'd say) .
  
  As I mentioned before if your curious and sick of all the "other" stratagy games, or if you want 
 a startagy game with some minor "RPG" flairs give KoH a try, you may just be happily suprised! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t3hTwinky
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 28, 2007 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Knights of Honor is an epic, epic game. It combines the depth of diplomacy with the epic strategy 
 of the Total War series, with the down-and-dirty tactics of an RTS. 
  
  Here's the deal; to start, you pick a kingdom, large or small, empire or vassal. There are tons 
 to choose from, everything from France to Trebizond, and each kingdom starts with its own relations 
 with surrounding kingdoms, be they friend or foe. You can declare war on the punks to teach them 
 a lesson, or you can offer your friends deals, like trade agreements or royal weddings.
  
  If (and when) you go to war, your relationship with other kingdoms change. Kingdoms who hate your 
 enemy will like you more when you go to war with them, and then you can start trading and so forth. 
 But kingdoms that are friends with your enemy may break their agreements with you, or even declare 
 war.
  
  There is so much to deal with regarding diplomatic relations that it would be overwhelming if not 
 for the lovely interface and map that shows you who likes you and who doesn't, what your relationships 
 are and who you are at war with, all at once. Its very intuitive and very clever.
  
  My favorite part of the game is the knights bar, which is a bar at the top of the screen where 
 you can hire merchants to trade with other kingdoms, marshals to lead your army, clerics to convert 
 provinces, spies to conduct espionage, and more. The other knights you can hire I find to be pretty 
 useless, all they really do is up your building speed and generate food faster.
  
  When looking at the diplomatic view, all the kingdoms are laid out neatly with corresponding names 
 and colors designating boundaries and such, much like a map. You can then zoom in to get a view 
 of your actual provinces, with the central town and surrounding countryside, and you can build 
 town improvements and order around your armies to plunder enemy villages, attack enemy armies, 
 or lay siege to enemy towns. 
  
  The computer can handle battles without going into RTS mode, but you can choose to lead the battle 
 yourself. Every time a marshal leading your army wins a battle or plunders a village, he gains 
 experience, and when he gets enough, you can buy an attribute. Some of the attributes are useless, 
 and one in particular is completely overpowered, but they do well at augmenting the way you play.
 
  
  There's so much more to KoH that I can't possibly list it all here. If you're a fan of epic strategy 
 games, and you don't mind a few minor quirks, you owe it to yourself to spend the few bucks to 
 give it a shot, because KoH is easily one of the best strategy games I have ever played. (Just 
 remember to patch it before you play it. ^_^ ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlindLookout86
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 24, 2007 2:02 am PT
Review:  You may not be blown away by the isometric view reminiscent of late 90s RTSs, but look closer and 
 you realise there is a complex game waiting to be unravelled.
  
  This game is basically Total War without the fancy graphics but much better diplomaic a. i.
  
 
  You play the game in real-time though you can speed up or slow down the game if need be.
  
  Battles can be auto-resolved or you can enter the field and take personal command, again reminiscent 
 of Total War. Note that the graphics are pretty mediocre and the battles require litttle strategic 
 thinking.
  
  The goal is to be crowned leader of Europe. You move armies across a civ like map showing major 
 cities and its surrounding farms etc.
  
  In terms of diplomacy you have many options. You can demand tribute, offer conditional peace, declare 
 war, marry off your royal offspring just to name a few.
  
  The enemy A. I is no fool and if you show weakness you're basically finished.
  
  You have a 
 royal court which can hold up to 9 characters. You can assign each character as one of : 
 
  
  This may feel restirctive to only have so few slots but it prevents you from spaming armies and 
 ammassing huge amounts of gold.
  
  One gripe is that it takes ages to build things so you may want to speed up the game while building.
 
  
  This game is certaintly not for everyone and requires patience. Lots and lots of patience. Swarming 
 and mass rushes will not get you anywhere in this RTS.
  
  Recommended for history buffs and players who like slow paced games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hock3yl1f3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 5:46 am PT
Review:  This is a great RTS game. Very underrated and pretty old ('04) . However the gameplay is a lot of 
 fun and very in depth. This isn't a speedy game. The game starts slow and one game might last a 
 very long time especially if you play on the harder settings. Thats why I said its not for everyone. 
 However, dont get me wrong I love this game and its pretty unique unlike games like Rise of Nations, 
 Empire Earth, and more. This is a very fun game that is very in depth. The graphics aren't bad 
 they just have a retro type look that really helps. I think the only major flaw is that the game 
 is very slow at the beginning. Everything else makes up for it though. For example, the diffuculty 
 settings are perfect. Easy: anyone can play it no matter what, and it goes up to Hard: Ridiculous 
 (in my opinion) for hard core gamers. So no matter who you are play this game and you'll love it. 
 I recommend playing the demo which is great before you buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bakkoda24
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 13, 2007 7:32 am PT
Review:  At first, I had many doubts about Knights of Honor, thinking it would end up like another Stronghold. 
 Once I started playing, my hopes shot through the roof. It was hard to find a good country to begin 
 with, good income, good surroundings, and happy neighbors. But once I found the perfect one, I 
 was amazed to know that 3 hours had already gone by. The smarter-than-average AI allows fun battles 
 and requires a lot of strategies to defeat them. The Kingdom Advantages , which are like bonuses 
 for collecting certain materials within villages, can also add to the fights and conquering. The 
 Royal Court allows for a barrage of knights to be hired, ranging from marshals to landlords. Other 
 aspects of the game like trading, alliances, wars, rebels and loyalists, and a royal family add 
 up to make this game promising, fun to the last drop, and educational to an extent. Anyone who 
 has a soul will find something in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuscleMatXXX
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 26, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  I have played many strategy games. In fact it is my most favourite genre. I have played all the 
 warcraft games, age of empires, civilization, heroes of might and agic, warhammer 40 000, warlords 
 battlecry, empire earth, medieval total war and rome total war, caesar 3, pharaoh, setters 3, kohan 
 2, praetorians and many many more.....
  
  I have been playing the deo version of knights of honour for a while. I keep repalying it even 
 after my demo is finished. It is just so addictive. My birthday is on monday and i have bought 
 it as my gift. I can't wait to play it. It is the most complete strategy game that i have ever 
 played. It has amazing gameplay, great graphics, beautiful sound and its totally fun.
  
  Sure it has a few flaws like its a slow game, the ai isn't that smart, the royal family thing is 
 a bit mad but they are insignificant little details. besides i am sure that the patches take care 
 of that.
  
  All i can say is that it is awesome. It proves that a game doesn't need to have the latest 3d technology 
 to be a good game. It has better gameplay than some of those games to be honest. It never gets 
 boring. I hope that you will love it as much as i do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truckingpete
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 25, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  The Game play is outstanding! It is like the Total War games, but all real-time which makes it 
 quite enjoyable! I give the Game play a 10!
  
  These graphics maybe 2D but they are very beautiful! the water looks amazing, the grass, and the 
 waterfalls! Very nice! I give the graphics a 9!
  
  The sound is nice. It is all made by an orchestra. You can download the sound track at the website. 
 I give the sound a 9!
  
  The value is the best thing! You can go wrong with it! I give the value a very good 10!
  
  
 Pete's Final Say: This is a must buy game if you like RTS and Medieval stuff! The Difficulty is 
 just right with the new patch. I spent over 100 Hours playing this game. The learning curve is 
 really easy.
  
  Pete's Final Score: 9.8 SUPERB 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LeihnerGuarin
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 8, 2007 6:09 am PT
Review:  ... Now that the second patch is out! Never, ever, have I played a game which so effortlessly combined 
 such delicious graphics with outstanding game play and the capacity for total immersion in its 
 virtual world! Instead of the old, hackneyed formula of build and overwhelm , the player is forced 
 to actually make STRATEGIC choices, the consequences of which variably affect the destiny of the 
 kingdom. The ultimate goal of becoming the Emperor of Europe is, of course a conventional one, but 
 that's probably the only thing someone with experience of RTS games would be acquainted with. There 
 is of course the usual option of conquering all the countries of the map, but you won't get very 
 far along this road if you lack the funds to raise troops. On the other hand, if you max out on 
 merchants, especially early in the game, you risk attracting the unwanted attention of other kingdoms, 
 looking for easy prey. Espionage/diplomacy also plays a very important part in the game, with the 
 possibility of even taking over a rival polity, should your spy succeed to the throne. And I haven't 
 even mentioned the use of Clerics in the game! All in all a highly enjoyable game with unlimited 
 replay value! One can only hope that the sequel will follow very shortly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragon_nolan
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  This game is the best game i ever played in my life it is a good combnashion of those old classic 
 games that we all love and combined with those new games well juist put it this way this game is 
 all the way fantastic if any of the prudecers of this game read this i got to say 1 thing 2 you 
 good job no great job u's are the best well that's all i have to say peacee o ya and 1 more thing 
 any body who reads this and i mean anybodyif u are still not convinced about this game yet juist 
 plz try the demo and than u can tell me i'm rong peace.................. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PET_
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 28, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Well I have been waiting the game for over 1 year (before his release) . I have seen the screenshots 
 and I was simply starting do droll . The 2D graphics are absolutley superb, I don't know why the 
 reviewer from GamesSpot offered such a small grade for graphics, probably bechose they are not 
 3D and he can't test his super cool graphic card... Graphics are superb I repeat that. What would 
 we preffer? Probably a 3D game with some bad graphics... or some good 3D graphics with high PC requerments? 
 2D fits fine.
  
  Another good advantage on this game is the music witch simply takes you back in the medieval ages 
 (dark ages) . Very very enjoyable.
  
  Now to the gameplay. Depending on your country you wanted to start, your gameplay can change. If 
 you have a big country it will be more easy, probably, probably not if you are at war with 2 or 
 3 countryes. Also, if you start with a small country diplomacy will be a nice thing.
  
  The problem here is that if you really want to win the game, you must build an army and start to 
 conquer witch is pretty easy. No diplomatics win or other stuff. Also at some point to start to 
 became so powerful that you don't even enter the 2D graphics. Simply have 2 marchals, send 1 to 
 conquer and one to stay around, if you see that you are loosing or you want to win faster, simply 
 reinforce your battle.
  
  I hope with the new patch (witch was release abotu 2 days ago) the game will be more challanging.
 
  
  P. S. Also there are several MODs released by fans witch can turn your gameplay around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kalay_BG
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 26, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  Too good to be true . The Bulgarian game is just the best you can play as long as you want its 
 just too good to be true :) Yea the battle graphics may be not the best but think of everything 
 else , even Total War has worst turnbased strategy gameplay . That game just rocks , so many nations 
 to play , different units and good balance :) And if you get some mods for better AI or any other 
 mods from the official forum the game becomes just perfect . I am waiting the expansion (i dont 
 think they can leave such a game without expansion or second game ? ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kweeky
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 22, 2006 3:29 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  * Beautiful (seemingly hand-drawn) 2D world, units, interface and portraits. * Solid Empire strategy 
 game.
  * Holds its own against Civilization and Total War as a well produced hybrid.
  * The developers had a lot of love for their creation, and it shows.
  * Embraces many different 
 gaming styles. If you dislike waging war, the game and AI accommodates a diplomatic and peaceful 
 campaign.
  * Royal family and court adds a human touch to the genre. AI for factions will shift when leaders 
 are killed or die of old age.
  
  The Sway:
  * Campaign is far more complex and detailed than Total War, but the battles are nowhere near as 
 complex or strategic.
  * 2D graphics may not appeal to everyone.
  * Music is well-written and presented at the right times whilst aiming not to distract you.
  
 
  The Bad:
  * Choice of using real-time strategy timer in campaign feels unnatural, you will find yourself 
 using the pause button a lot.
  * Lack of a zoom function on the main campaign map can be infuriating.
  * Multiplayer is only 
 battles, not campaign.
  
  My Words:
  As I pull myself away from my campaign as marching through Europe as an expansionist England, I 
 find myself reminiscing of the events that have highlighted my rise to power as a medieval superpower. 
 When I started out as England, the first thing I was forced to address was my vassal state of Wales 
 was requesting protection from the seemingly agitated Ulster arrogant expansionist king. Unfortunately, 
 I ignored their wishes and at first thought it was a sign of naggy and misdirected AI that was 
 going to plague my gameplay. How wrong could I have been! Ulster invaded Wales a short-while later, 
 and seized the Welsh capital, wiping out the Welsh from the map. Ulster then decided it would push 
 east-ward into English lands. I sent what little armies I had to defend the borders, and managed 
 to hold them off on the Welsh/England border. Scotland, noticing I was distracted pushed down towards 
 York. I picked up the phone to Norway. Now, when the going gets tough, calling up the ex-Viking 
 state is not the *best* of ideas, but given my situation, there were few allies that would probably 
 come to my aid. By simply explaining my case to Norway, they were quick to come to my aid in an 
 effort to prove themselves to myself and Europe. As I was valiantly defending York from the Scots 
 and London from Ulster, several ships sailed in and docked off the coast of East Anglia. I cheered. 
 For the first time ever in a game, have I actually wanted to thank an AI player in a strategy game. 
 The Norwegian king lived up to my diplomatic evaluation, indeed he was militaristic, honorable 
 and friendly. These weren't just tags added to give flavor to the other factions description, these 
 actually were things to keep a very close eye on.
  
  For example, later in the game (after I had liberated Wales and annexed Scotland and Ireland with 
 the help of my Norwegian allies) , I turned my attention to war-torn France. Unfortunately for France, 
 the most blood-thirsty and unfriendly king had come to power and was seeking to expand on several 
 fronts. The world seemed to hate him for it, and I certainly wasn't keen on his intentions considering 
 my solitary English colony south off Brittany. So I ferried some troops across the channel and 
 prepared for an invasion, a fight to help downsize the expansionist French. This is where the AI 
 really impressed me.
  
  As I declared war on France, I received several diplomatic messages from other factions, all pledging 
 their support and thanks to my going to war with France. The game didn't punish me for going to 
 war, it allowed the AI to evaluate *why* I was going to war, and it determined a worthy and just 
 cause. As I trampled through the French soil, taking province by province, I kept getting messages 
 of respect and gratitude from the neighbors of France. I became the world's most respected power, 
 because the AI really gave a damn about what I was doing. Even the pacifistic and timid Spanish 
 ruler (whom refused to go to war with France) was giving me coin behind closed-doors to fuel my 
 conquest.
  
  As my war with France became more and more bloody, I decided to found an Alliance with Morocco 
 who was the wealthiest nation at the time. After arranging a marriage with my Prince and the Princess 
 of Morocco, Morocco aided me in my conquest as well as supplied me with exotic goods I would not 
 have otherwise been able to access.
  
  Then the Pope intervened. Unfortunately, putting aside religion and becoming friends based on kin 
 was seen in the eyes of the Pope as downright evil. So he called for a Crusade against Morocco, 
 and asked me to lead it. Considering the Princess of Morocco was kin, I declined and maintained 
 my relationship with Morocco. The nations (and there were a couple, mostly in the Eastern-Block) 
 whom didn't see my conquest of France as a good thing, decided to lead the religious assault against 
 Morocco and her sympathizing allies. And this is just an account of *some* of my adventures in 
 the campaign which aren't only good fun, but make sense. The developers seemed to have put a good 
 balance on the AI that unlike the Civilization games where you never trust an AI civilization *ever* 
 and allows you and encourages you to form lasting alliances and friendships.
  
  Knights of Honor is a game that whilst does not bestow flashy 3D graphics, offers genuine and deep 
 gameplay that will make you feel like you have found a beautiful classic from the late nineties. 
 This game is a return to that old-school gaming circle, and it is possibly one of the best fun 
 European strategic games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow_hosi
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 13, 2006 10:34 am PT
Review:  This game is fun, the multi-player is kind of lame, but in single-player, you get to control a 
 whole country and conquer all of Europe, or you can just sit and let the world go about its courses 
 of wars and rebellions, countries rise and fall and you get to be a part of it all.
  
  the graphics are good for this type of game, and the game play is very fun, i only wish you could 
 have more marshals then they give you. when you have a vast empire you just don't get enough of 
 them to properly defend it all. But this game is highly addictive, i have spend many many hours 
 plotting conquest, playing diplomat, and turning allies against each other.
  
  all in all this game is by far the best of its kind, no game has had all the features this has, 
 it has city building, and army control. this game is something everyone should consider getting, 
 just for the simple fact that you can chance the history of the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyder90
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 29, 2006 6:33 am PT
Review:  Its such an addictave game. its straight forward gameplay is great and is easy to get used to without 
 needing a stuiped tetorial. Unlike many other strategy games both aspects being peace or war is 
 fun unlike many other games which are very borring while at peace time or really annoying durring 
 war time. This game isn't the best game in the world but it is worth buying and its not another 
 ea staregy game. Although there are many choices in the genre of middle ages war games this one 
 is impressive in its own right and i give it out to the makers for making an old school type of 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AuraPheonix
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 11, 2006 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Knights of Honor is a really good game. However, compared to Rome: Total War, it falters somewhat. 
 But then again, Rome is one of the best RTS on the block, so its hard to compete. Regardless, this 
 game is definetly worth the money and the time. It has good gameplay, graphics are hardly the problem. 
 Good veriety of units, lots of fun to be had. Crusades and Jihads are well balanced, Diplomacy 
 is fun when you get to boss everyone around. The game hosts a good family line, where marriges 
 need to be arranged and etc. They host a good veriety of Knights, and features online play. Bottom 
 line, the game is good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dren_gs
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 25, 2006 1:53 am PT
Review:  Knights of Honor is an extraordinary real-time strategy game but the 2D mode graphics almost 
 ruin everything. It couldve had a pretty high score if the graphics wouldve been 3D and much 
 better. In fact it couldve reached Rome: Total War and maybe couldve been able to exceed it. 
 But anyway lets talk about what it is not what it couldve been. The game still has its good sides 
 that make you forget about the 2D graphics and the moments of battle mode (which is annoying) but 
 if you want you can let the computer handle the battles which is what I often do. What really surprised 
 me is that you can choose more than 100 catholic, pagan, orthodox and muslim countries from 3 different 
 eras. The campaign mode is great I mean It has so many features like: making allies; making royal 
 weddings to improve and strengthen your relations with your allies; managing your economies, your 
 trade income; signing trade rights pacts, non-aggression pacts and alliance pacts; building, 
 creating your armies; kingdom advantages; the Royal Court lets you manage your Marshals, Spies, 
 Clerics, Merchants etc. and your heirs; and you can give your spies duties to infiltrate into other 
 Kingdoms Royal Court, and so much more that just make you enjoy the game more than any other game 
 and I gotta say that the fact of being able to recruit different kinds of Knights is really great. 
 There are some other great features for example if youre catholic the Pope can call one of your 
 armies for a Crusade against muslims, pagans or orthodox kingdoms and if you refuse to lead a crusade 
 thats been asked from you the pope will excommunicate you so you have 2 choices, either accept 
 or refuse, but if you choose the second one you will have much problems later. The Game also has 
 some great soundtracks and the sounds in campaign mode are good, but the sounds of battle in battle 
 mode are too bad, in fact for me theyre very annoying. The Game has a very simple tutorial which 
 makes everything so much easier for you for learning everything you need to build an empire. You 
 can try play the campaign without playing the tutorial first but you will have many difficulties 
 along the game in the beginning and probably you will get nervous and leave it so as an advice 
 try the tutorial first. Those who worship real-time strategy games and like playing in the campaign-map 
 mode should really try this one but those who like to play in the battle mode, hmm I wouldnt prefer 
 this for them because of the 2D graphics. I hope my review was useful to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bwroth
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 8, 2006 6:31 pm PT
Review:  The demo is small (can only play 2 countries of the 100+ they have) . There is no SAVE button for 
 the demo either. Large selection of ways to play. Personally I love to build a trade empire and 
 attatch myself to the closest strongest neighbor with the fewest enemies. (Allies will ask you 
 to stop strading with their enemies, if you say no, you get attacked!) Iv played a ton of strategy 
 games in my life and this one takes top 5. The management of the ecnomy, military and Royal relations 
 are unreal. DOWNLOAD DEMO and enjoy!! 
  
  Bad Parts: Demo with no save sucks, game was really hard to learn. Money is slow comeing in, and 
 when you get attacked you have to raise an army of peasants because you cant afford anything else. 
 Took me about an hour of learning the right balance of trade, military, building and managers for 
 the cities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StonePirate
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 3, 2006 12:55 am PT
Review:  When i bought this game for 15 I didn't excpect much of it, but it interested me as I had read 
 some reviews and herd that it was an old school game, so I had to play it.
  The tutorial was rather simple, which is good, and it doesn't take the player much time to get 
 used to the gameplay. My main critisicm is that the graphics were rather poor and very simple, 
 2D as in battles you couldn't alter the camera angle too well. Also the simplicity of the game 
 was remarkable, i conquered all of Europe on hard mode in a few days as if I had been on easy mode. 
 
  None the less, this game has a lot of depth as you can have several different approuches to winning 
 the game, be it to conquer all the land, be elected as ruler of Europe, claim your title as Emperor 
 of Europe and even have the most "kingdom advantages". Also you can change the heir of your throne 
 to be a different son from the first born which is a nice touch, and the idea of having knights 
 is brilliant. The fact that you can have marshalls to lead your armies, clerics to convert your 
 provinces, spies to assasinate your foes and merchants to increase kingdom wealth, among many other 
 roles, is a stroke of genius and adds a lot of depth to the game. Also you can claim land from 
 another empire if your daughter or son is married to the late king or queen, which is also great 
 and adds a certain depth that other games don't have nowadays. The AI of the computer is enough 
 to let the game run smoothly, and the different countries team up against you while you have your 
 allies, creating world wars which is really cool. The final point is the faces of the monarchs 
 and knights which there are hundreds of also give another depth to the game, it is only a shame 
 that the character don't age and aren't in 3D-like in civilization.
  Overall the game had some truely great points to it, but was rather let down by its graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shroomy10
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 17, 2006 5:59 am PT
Review:  If you love RTS's u will love KoH, it is by far one of the best games to ever be made just as good 
 if not better then age of the empires.
  
  Goods: TONS of nations of civilizations to play as, lots of unique units, awesome castle upgrades, 
 realistic (revolts, rebels) , generals can level and gain skills, TONS of gameplay.
  
  Bads: Only a couple of things here, horrible online play not very fun at all, and can get old after 
 playing it for hours in a row because the typical game to win takes of 20 hrs.
  
  Overall great game and if you are a rts fan this is HIGHLY recommended you will not be dissapointed 
 with this game and its quality's 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 08willej
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 22, 2006 11:01 am PT
Review:  If you love RTS's u will love KoH, it is by far one of the best games to ever be made just as good 
 if not better then age of the empires.
  
  Goods: TONS of nations of civilizations to play as, lots of unique units, awesome castle upgrades, 
 realistic (revolts, rebels) , generals can level and gain skills, TONS of gameplay.
  
  Bads: Only a couple of things here, horrible online play not very fun at all, and can get old after 
 playing it for hours in a row because the typical game to win takes of 20 hrs.
  
  Overall great game and if you are a rts fan this is HIGHLY recommended you will not be dissapointed 
 with this game and its quality's
  
  ZOSO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeityCode
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 18, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Knights of Honor is a real time strategy game that is just plain fun and highly addictive. The 
 game has three levels of play and I find the easy level to be challenging enough for now. As Ruler 
 of your kingdom you develop industries based on your natural resources, conduct trade agreements 
 and assign merchants to help manage your trade. You also need to develop the industries necessary 
 to build your armies. Each industry is developed in a city that is the capital of the province 
 it is in. The cities have room for a limited amount of development and the tech requirements are 
 such that you cannot develop much with only one city. This gives rise to a strong impedes to invade 
 your neighbor aside from the natural urge to be aggressive. After all, the purpose is to become 
 Emperor of Europe which turns out to be Europe a small part of western Asia and a small part of 
 North Africa. 
  
  Game play and control is by way of the now well established strategic and tactical views, with 
 the added help of a color map. The strategic level is where all of the game is really played; this 
 is where you will spend most of your time. The tactical level is where battles are fought. You 
 can have the AI handle a battle for you but I advise against it unless you have a vast numerical 
 superiority. Every time I have had the AI take over I have lost. Sometimes victory for the player 
 seems all too easy but the AI can surprise you.
  
  The strategic level is where armies are created and cities are managed. To create an army you must 
 first hire a Marshal. Once a Marshal is hired and placed in a city an army can be created around 
 him. The units available for your army other professions are possible, merchant has already been 
 mentioned, the game provides for five and they are Marshal, Merchant, Builder, Spy, and Cleric. 
 In the game you may hire up to nine professionals and these are referred to as Knights. You also 
 have the option to place a member of the royal family into a profession as a knight. The advantage 
 is they dont cost money; the disadvantage is that appointing them to be a Marshal or Spy puts 
 them at risk of being killed or captured. These professionals help you improve your cities and 
 build your empire.
  
  The designers of the game have divided the Medieval Age into three periods: early, middle and late. 
 At the beginning of a campaign you choose which period of the Medieval Ages you wish to play. Once 
 that is done you are given a list of nations, appropriate for that period, from which you are to 
 choose one. Some nations have advantages that make them good choices for beginners and the great 
 variety of nations and starting periods means this humble little game has a very big potential 
 for prolonged playability. You really get the feeling that you are growing a personal empire during 
 the medieval period. The artwork is very well done and the graphics really makes it come alive. 
 A curious drawback is that the game does not have a 3D engine so POV cant be changed and it is 
 not possible to zoom in or out. The game interface is easy to learn so after the tutorial it is 
 easy to jump into a campaign in Europe. The learning time is probably 20 minutes tops and some 
 will be able to skip the tutorial and begin play immediately.
  
  Even though play may be started immediately your first campaign should be considered a learning 
 experience. To this end a game manual and a technology tree are included. The manual is very informative 
 and it is even in color. This makes it much easier to identify icons and makes for a more enjoyable 
 guide. Instead of a table of contents listing general subjects an index is placed at the front. 
 Of course it lists topics alphabetically making it very easy to find more specific information 
 faster. 
  
  I can easily recommend this game to anyone who might be interested in the medieval period or RTS 
 games in general. The historical period, and this game as well, offer a wide variety of military 
 units to enjoy and the game price is definitely affordable.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikey007
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 28, 2006 10:26 pm PT
Review:  It reminds me of a cross between Civilization 4 & Rome total War (campaign map only) BUT it runs 
 in real time. 
  
  The real time feature is very refreshing for this type of game, its quite realistic as in you will 
 see an enemy party cross your borders & you have to intercept them with your field army before 
 they get to your settlement. Also it take some times to travel which i think is quite realistic 
 i find.
  
  You have main charaters & sub charaters to lead your armys, become merchants, spys, builders etc. 
 So there is alot of variation with them. I personaly i used my main charaters as merchants as they 
 dont cost any upkeep unlike the sub charaters ; ) 
  
  You can either do the battle your self (ala rome total war) or you can auto solve it. The battle 
 mechanics are kind of weak compaired to RTW, but are still enjoyable. I ended up auto solving them 
 as the computer does a pretty good job & i just wanted to focus on the campign map.
  
  Graphics are cute & well done. Everythign looks very authentic & nothign is out of place.
  
 
  Music is also nice but not memorable.
  
  I dont have many bad thing to say about this game, except that it is quite addictive, which take 
 time away from needy girlfriends & demanding dead lines, but hey, i think escaping now & then is 
 a good thing.
  
  If you like Rome total war & civilisation & like high replable games, you will Love this game!
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: amansandhu
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 24, 2006 12:09 am PT
Review:  I'm a BIG fan of Total War games but this game is truly the best strategy entertainer I've ever 
 played. It doesn't have superb 3D graphics like Rome but the quality of game play leaves anything 
 else behind. Knights of Honor is an excellent game which everyone should buy cause if you don't 
 play it I really think you missed a fantastic game. Knights of Honor would have been a huge huge 
 success if it had 3D graphics but even with 2D graphics it ROCKS. The way the developers have designed 
 the game play mechanics is really great, believe me it really sucks you in the game & you can play 
 as long as you want. The best part of this game is the REPLAY VALUE. You can play it every time 
 with new things new events new alliances new strategy etc..... This game is really a masterpiece. 
 The music is really good & the amount of fun is amazing. BUY IT PLAY IT IT ROCKS!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghimly
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 23, 2006 7:08 am PT
Review:  When I first bought this game I was a little sceptic. But after playing it for some time I could 
 enjoy the immense depth of Knights of Honor.
  I started as a small Country (Scottish Highlands) and worked my way around the British Isle. With 
 all eth possibilities in diplomacy and espionage I quickly lost my way in diplomatic relations. 
 Basically, the more you have allies, the more you have to look out with whom you want to wage wars.
 
  What makes this game worth it? Well, first of all, the Medieval setting is excellent, with over 
 100 starting countries to choose from.... this is HUGE. Then there is the management section, witch 
 will leave you with your hands full. What structure to built in which town? Or how to place your 
 armies strategically is quite challenging.
  Anyway, if you know the Civilization Games and you like 'em, get this one it's really worth it. 
 
  So far I spent like 12+ hours on 1 game, and I haven't even conquered half of Europe.
  If you like strategy, diplomacy, espionage, town building or simply waging wars... well all this 
 you have in one HUGE game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pawliuz
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 7, 2006 5:04 am PT
Review:  this game is not that bad as i expected . 2D graphics looks fine , a lot of units and buildings 
 to choose . enjoyable for a few hours but later it gets boring , it's not worth to fight a battle 
 yourself cause fighting is one of the weakest sides of this game , automatic will do it better 
 . 
  It's very nice that there are a lot of countries added , but there are so many inaccuracies , from 
 countries border to the dukes names , what kind of historic books did they used ?! as i am from 
 Lithuania , it was very disappointing for me to get know that our capital was some sh**y village 
 ,i haven't heard about , and our king was some slavic named guy . so i waited for the son to get 
 born with lithuanian name or at least close to lithuanian , yeah - first one was russian , second 
 was pole , and no lithuanian child . I cant understand that , because in middle ages Lithuania 
 was one of the strongest country , so is it that hard to find some real names , cities , or to 
 see some maps of that period ?
  And wtf is the royal court ? it's so irrational and pointless ! why can't i have as many marshals 
 or spy as i want ? it's nonsense ! 
  despite these few minuses , it is worth to play . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordSaczva
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 30, 2005 1:49 pm PT
Review:  a good game for strategy but i think it's better in the whole world view than actually going into 
 a battle, for one thing the graphics aren't great and tactics are basic really a simple tower or 
 catapult sends enemies running in fear every-time.
  the main game: it brings you a wide variety or features and options in terms or buildings, and 
 units that can be specific to the kingdom or province (area of your kingdom under your control) .
 
  the variety or units does bring some depth and the knight system where you can get spies into 
 other kingdoms to wreak havoc at whatever job the enemy puts them in or use them to protect against 
 other spies in your kingdom.
  the limit of 9 knights and therefore even fewer armies is a letdown but warring against other kingdoms 
 is fun if you pillage their buildings to lower morale and raise the provinces nostalgia which is 
 useful for either rebellions or the province overthrowing the enemy.
  
  the graphics are alright but 2d but it's not totally noticeable unless you go into battle mode. 
 the musics alright.
  gameplay is fun but some units can easily wipe out everything the enemy throws at you so it becomes 
 unbalanced soon. i'd still recomend strategy likers to buy this it's quite cheap and the kingdom 
 variety and diplomatic options are quite good but limited and samey after a while.
  if you need help conquering the world see my strategy guide for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 23, 2005 9:11 pm PT
Review:  
  Releasing itself from a new small developer named Black Sea Studios on June 6th of 2005, Knights 
 of Honor gave strategy fans a truly in-depth strategy game experience that not only had nostalgic 
 2D graphics from days past, but also gave players a unique experience setting them into the role 
 of their own royal court during the medieval times of Europe. Releasing itself a year earlier in 
 Europe, fans from the Western Hemisphere had to wait for a publisher to distribute the game in 
 our neck of the woods. But, with the wait, came an already pre-patched game that upon release in 
 North America, didnt have any real graphically or gameplay glitches to point a finger at. If you 
 can remember from my top ten games of 2004 from last year, youll remember that Knights of Honor 
 was mentioned as a surprise title of year, which probably did end up surprising a lot of people 
 by their first glance of the game, but after playing it for a few hundred years, in game of course, 
 youll soon realize just how in-depth this game can get.
  
  After soon starting out Knights of Honor and running through the tutorial, youll begin to realize 
 just how in-depth this game is. Youll soon see how much time the developers took in locating and 
 looking up information about the different time periods youre given to play in. From the beautiful 
 map of Europe and its surroundings to the differences in the different nations of their respective 
 time periods, everything and every idea in Knights of Honor was thought about a few times over. 
 There are different time periods/eras to start out in including: Early Medieval which is about 
 1000 A. D., theres High Medieval which is about 1200 A. D., and theres Late Medieval which about 
 1350 A. D. These may seem simple in the beginning to the new player, but there are many differences 
 in choices soon after that. The play is then given a choice of which nation/culture they would 
 like to play as and this is where the historical value comes into play with Knights of Honor. During 
 the respective time/starting periods, the different nations are located differently, but historically 
 correct nonetheless. Not enough can be said about the time that was taken in completely figuring 
 out Europe and all of its provinces during the different time periods. And based upon the different 
 locations of Europe and its surroundings, the player will be able to mine and manufacture different 
 items such as spices or luxuries, but only depending upon his or her location. Not every exotic 
 good can be found in every province, you must either set up trade with another province or take 
 them over in order to change your trade goods. 
  
  Upon progressing your kingdom either through conquest of diplomacy, youll be given kingdom advantages 
 which are helpful skills that will enhance your nation that much more. Collect enough of these 
 advantages in a single category and receive the bonus benefit of that particular skill. The game 
 has a large and in-depth tech tree that if planned out right with dealing with your different cities 
 in different provinces, can bring large riches to the player in the long run. One unique part of 
 the game is dealing with your royal court. Consisting of nine different people, your royal court 
 can be full of Knights, Clerics, Spies, Merchants, etc. to aid you on your way, but beware because 
 installing these people into play will cost you and if your provinces are not bringing in enough 
 revenue, youll soon feel the pinch of your coin. Raise the taxes of your provinces too much and 
 your people will hate you for it. Whatever your choices are in your royal court, make wise decisions, 
 because you can only have nine altogether. With having a royal court, youll also have a royal 
 family which starts with a king, who most likely will eventually, but not always, get married and 
 will have offspring which will in-turn rule the kingdom upon his death. If no heir is provided, 
 upon the death of your kingdom, youre given the choice of one of your knights to carry on the 
 decision. This games depth may surprise you while playing. Choosing to marry off one of your daughters 
 to the Germans to remain peaceful may seem like a good idea at first, but when they demand vassalage, 
 will it still be a good idea? Youll have to decide, but itll probably take you a few games through 
 to make better educated decisions for your overall experience.
  
  Upon first glance of any screenshot of this game, youll notice that the game is presented with 
 2D graphics and pre-rendered backgrounds. While this may be a turn-off to the graphic whores of 
 gaming in the recent years, other will see the beauty in it. When looking on the whole map of Europe, 
 youll realize just how detailed these maps are. Youll notice the clouds floating by as your armies 
 roam the land in conquest of advancing their kingdom. The game is played from an isometric view 
 that can be zoomed in and out of to some extent, and youll only be able to see the land you own 
 and that of your closest allies, while land of your enemies are fogged out slightly, enhancing 
 the difficultly of the game. As you progress through the ages, youll see your cities and villages 
 expand and with that, also the territory around you. The developers took great care in giving the 
 player a realistic map of Europe during the medieval times which youll come to appreciate over 
 time spent playing Knights of Honor. Over time of amassing your land and armies, you soon have 
 to battle your enemies, whether you like it or not and these battles can be automatically played 
 out without interaction from you, or you can handle them manually. If you choose to do it yourself, 
 youre presented with your troops on a battlefield which might be by a stream or forest or other 
 environmental avenues, but along with the 2D graphics, these battles are nothing to marvel over 
 graphically, but those looking for strategy should enjoy the idea of flanking your enemy and using 
 different troops against your opponents at different times to engage your enemy
  
  While the game has a decent soundtrack, youll soon notice that it loops because of how long a 
 game can last in Knights of Honor. True enough, in the beginning, the game will seem take awhile 
 when first expanding your provinces, but after a few turns, youll soon be given the chance to 
 control many troops across the large expanse of Europe, and while all of this may keep your mind 
 occupied, chances are youll be noticing the looping soundtrack a few times and there are also 
 even times when the music cuts off for no reason, but this is rare and the music is pleasing enough 
 for most fans of the era of the game where they wont mind it too much.
  
  There is a multiplayer section to Knights of Honor although chances are youll be spending more 
 time on the single player portion of the game because of its length and also because of the lack 
 of players on multiplayer, but nonetheless, the multiplayer is decent. In fact, there are four 
 different types of multiplayer consisting of: Open Battlefield, Town Assault, Historical Battles, 
 and also King of Towers. While some might be more interesting and more fast paced than others, 
 youll soon find your spending more time on the single player portion of the game because of the 
 depth involved each and every game.
  
  Overall, if youre a fan of strategy games and are looking for something with a little more depth 
 instead of the old point-click-kill style, and you enjoy historical accuracy, then youll love 
 this game. After a few hours, youll soon learn to appreciate the time that the developers spent 
 of making a historically accurate game, while bringing the gamer an engaging game from turn to 
 turn on a beautiful map of Europe. People of the Western Hemisphere have to be glad that a publisher 
 picked this title up to be released over here. Definitely a wise choice. If you havent heard of 
 this game yet, take a first look. If youre iffy, give this game a chance and try the demo, but 
 be sure to give yourself some time because with all the depth involved, its gonna take more than 
 an hour to get yourself truly into this great game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grandbandman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 21, 2005 2:12 pm PT
Review:  this game is 1 of the best for the PC and should not be overlooked and can be played all day! the 
 replay valu is so great thet u can be the same kingdom every time and u will get something diffrent 
 and will have a blast at the same time! just the number of kingdoms u can play as is jaw droping 
 and i still have not played them all. it is a realy deep sim and takes a long time to get used 
 2 the econimy of the game and u will lose alout at first but that is half the fun becouse them 
 u learn something new about the game. and it will take u a long time to see all the things this 
 game hase to offer and will be amased and u should realy pick this 1 up!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zekk38
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 6, 2005 5:23 pm PT
Review:  It's like Medieval: Total War. Cool. Good game altogether, although the tactical level could use 
 some more fleshing out. Still good. The strategy level seems to be more in depth than Total War. 
 Very good diplomacy and such. Surprised me. The graphics are nice too. Sometimes 2-D is better, 
 you know? Anyway, I highly recommend it. I like European history, too, so this game was very fun 
 for me in particular. I wish I had more time to play it at home. Not quite as good as Total War, 
 though, but close. Love it. Added to which, i especially like the knights system. Very fun. Took 
 a little while to figure out the nuances but well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jahfriendship
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 8, 2005 3:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is cool for killing time and building an empire. There's nothing like sailing the seas 
 and going to battle while the other half of your army is fighting in the province. "They invaded, 
 so I conquered!" "They said no, so I took yes!" "They wanted my land, so I buried them there!" 
 That is what the game is about. 
  Don't let satan take your life! He wants to invade your life and take you with him to hell, through 
 Christ overcome him. He wants you to say no to Jesus, through faith say Yes and be saved. He wants 
 to kill you, stay alive in Christ! Game On! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miloandrew
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 31, 2005 1:14 am PT
Review:  KOH is fun, don't get me wrong, but the difficulty levels seem a bit flawed to me. 
  
  You start out picking from any number of different countries in a few different time periods - 
 the country you choose dictates your starting position on the map. Pick poorly, and you'll regret 
 it the entire game.
  
  You can pick a nation near the edge of the map and not have to worry about having 2 fronts to be 
 attacked, or you can get in the middle of it all, and not have to worry about being cut off by 
 a stronger neighbor. It all depends upon how you want to play.
  
  From here, it is the typical strategy game, with the twist of being able to actually fight each 
 battle your armies get into. If you LOVE that kind of RTS kind of interaction, KOH will seem a 
 bit "lacking" here compared to games like TotalWAR: ROME.
  
  The real game is about the map, troop placements and your royal court. The court is where you will 
 spend a lot time mentoring your captains to influence your empire. You can simply hire a captain 
 (in several different disciplines, like building, martial, spy, etc.) or you can train any adult 
 males in your royal house. But, beware - if you use your King too much on assignment, he won't 
 be home makin' babies with the queen, so you may have a schism in your house if your King dies 
 with no adult heir.
  
  On the map, you take of specific territories, each centered around a town. There are surrounding 
 buildings of the town that can be ransaked for resources in an invasion situation. Doing this also 
 draws troops out of the better defended towns, which may be a veritable fortress.
  
  As your martial captains gain levels, you pick special talents for them. These talents make all 
 the difference in the world for the game. A well trained captain will almost never loose against 
 another captain of the same or lesser level - and there is the Achilles heel of the game.
  
  By the time you get a well groomed army (and believe me, it DOES take some time) , the game 
 becomes a bit easy. You almost never jump down into the 3D fights anymore - a) because later in 
 the game there are MANY of them going on and b) you'll do a much worse job than your well trained 
 captain would if left to his business.
  
  There are many other aspects of the game that are fun factors to deal with - like religion (catholic, 
 orthodox, muslim, pagan, etc) , famous rebels, spies and civilization advantages that all make the 
 overall task of taking over the world as multifaceted as it should be.
  
  Gameplay Experience:
  
  In one game, I played for about 30 hours building my empire until it 
 was obvious I was going to win - unfortunately, that was when 1/3 of the map was STILL not my territory. 
 But, I hadn't lost a battle in 2 hours. The rest would be a PLODDING process. Not much fun there 
 - so I started over on a different difficulty level.
  
  And there in lies my complaint with this game - on more difficult levels, the beginning is WAAY 
 too difficult. Oh, you can do it, but it really isn't much fun. And, on the levels where the beginning 
 is fun to play, the end is just too easy.
  
  Overall though, I did get over 60 hours of enjoyment out of this game.
  
  Bottom Line:
  
 
  A fun game that can go on forever if you want it to. Great map strategy game that is a bit lite 
 on the 3D RTS simulation for hardcore RTS fans. A bit screwy with difficulty levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nafarsadik
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 13, 2005 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Well I'll start you off with the obvious! The graphics are not the best you have ever seen, but 
 I guess one look at the screenshots would let you realize that huh? Well to me the graphics suits 
 the game just fine, they give the game the right "feel" actually.
  I just loved the game because it took me to the right era, for instance I would start off as the 
 "Duke", "Baron" or whatever of Cyprus and by invading the middle east and then working my way up 
 to the Turkish mainland I went over dozens of cultures and buildings/armies. It was quite and experiance. 
 On another occation I was able to unit Scotland under my rule and then marsh my armies throughout 
 the whole of the British Isles.
  Guys if you are into strategy then this is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdrianWerner
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2005 12:43 am PT
Review:  There have been games in the past that made empire building elements better than Knights of Honor. 
 TotalWar series did battles better and EuropaUniversalis/Crusader Kings did empire managment better. 
 But TotalWar lacked depth in strategy map, EuropaUniversalis lacked battles. Knights of Honor has 
 it all. It might not be the best at anything, but it offers the most complete package. 
  For many years I had Lords of the Realm2 installed on my HD and played it regulary. I hoped Lords 
 of the Realm3 would be replacament, but while it was nice game, it had nothing to do with LotR2. 
 Knights of Honor finally gave me a reason to delete LotR2. Considering how fun and addictive Knights 
 of Honor is I expect it to last on my HD for years. And I definitly anticipate anything that BlackSeaStudios 
 will do next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flathead123
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 18, 2005 6:16 pm PT
Review:  I'm a great fan of RTS but I normally hate these kinds because they are really hard and soooo long 
 but when I started to play this game I didn't want to stop.
  
  Gameplay:
  This game is hard but fun. I think this is game is only for those who have time and will only appeal 
 to hardcore gamers. My reasons are because there is so much to do like keepiong people happy, protecting 
 borders and cities, making sure you can get everything to help people, also making sure you don't 
 break agreements with other countries and make sure your realigon leader is happy. When i saw this 
 game i thought i wouldn't like it because it reminded me of civilazation and i hated that game 
 but its really nothing like it because its realtime not turnebased. 
  
  Graphics:
  The game didn't have awesome graphics or state of the art but the 2D art and map really went well 
 with the game.
  
  Sound: 
  I just wasn't really a fan of this music so this is just my opinion.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: evest2
Rating: 5.8
Date: Aug 30, 2005 12:20 am PT
Review:  This game did not meet my expectations. The game is fun all around to play, but I was looking for 
 a balance between organizing overall diplomatic strategy and really duking it out with my adversaries. 
 Rome: Total War did a much better job of the balance, because its fighting engine was superb. While 
 this game had a more sophisticated engine for the diplomatic side, the balance was tipped heavily 
 in RTW's favor, because the fighting in KOH is weak.
  
  The good part. The interface, while 2D is actually very good. I would have REALLY liked it if the 
 emblems of the countries had been accurate, but at least they got the colors down (yes, I'm I actually 
 got my major in Medieval History, if you can believe it) . The map is well done, the score is actually 
 outstanding and great to listen to over many hours.
  
  DON'T READ THIS IF YOU WANT SOME CHALLENGE TO THE GAME: The strategy aspect is too easy, I thought, 
 although it was enjoyable. It was way too easy to pick on somone everyone hates or stab a long-time 
 ally in the back if you had enough cash and accumulated piety quickly enough. In addition, it's 
 too easy to either buy everyone off or wipe the floor with all of the other countries that are 
 too busy fighting everyone else, because they're afraid of you. One thing I hated is that regardless 
 of how educated your cleric is, they end up dying WAY too often trying a conversion, and knights 
 that are builders and landlords are all but useless.
  
  The bad part. The fighting is terrible. The fighting side of the coin is pretty weak. You run squads 
 of men, but the battlegrounds are spartan and lack flavor. The most annoying thing I found is that 
 while it makes all the sense in the world to have many squads fight lesser amounts of men, if you 
 lose 1 guy in your squad, you have to pay to have an entire squad healed. I found this ridiculous, 
 especially since the AI, if I left it up to the computer to fight, would only take men from individual 
 squads, making it very less expensive to recruit new men. This just didn't make sense, and was 
 a big turn off, because it gave me no interest in being strategic with multiple squads. Oh, well. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tieio
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 11, 2005 10:14 pm PT
Review:  Once again a real time strategy game full of medieval premise and army building wonder hits the 
 PC, but it just doesn't have it all. Often you have to wonder if all the RTS games out there simply 
 take a few of the best aspects of a few of the other games and try to build a half-assed game from 
 it. Knights of Honor is an intelligent game, one that is worth a play through, but it isn't the 
 complete package. Some of the games unique features such as the need to create knights in order 
 to accomplish anything and building your knights up with new abilities are both innovative and 
 restricting. If you want to dominate on a large scale, it will take much longer since you have 
 a limit on the number of knights you may have at any given time. The best thing about this game 
 is that there is no time spent simply watching, there is always something to do, and that keeps 
 it interesting long enough to make it enjoyable. Building up your knights is also a fun aspect, 
 where you add abilities to each of them through battles that will make them stronger and more useful. 
 For an overall feel, this game has a number of things worth checking out, but don't expect an instant 
 classic as this falls just short of being great, but lives up to the status of "worth a look". 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nervid
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 20, 2005 6:28 pm PT
Review:  This is a very nice game that is historically educating. You can actually learn something about 
 the history and geography of Europe. Detailed. Doesn't seem too frantic like some RTS's. Kights 
 of Honor has decent graphics, albeit 2D, which in some ways is a good thing, since you can probably 
 play the game on lower end systems. Good voice acting. The manual is a little light, so I hope 
 the guide on GameFAQs helps. I wish the in game help file allowed searching of words. For instance 
 I couldn't find easily anything about "population". It is hyperlinked though, which was nice. I 
 highly recommend buying this game. If you think it's too much money to spend on yet another RTS, 
 then wait til mthe price drops, but definitely buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tazdirector
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 18, 2005 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Let me begin by stating that I am a fan of the medieval world. Don't get me wrong, you won't see 
 me at any Renaissance Fairs wearing a month's salary on homemade armor. Nor do I don't fantasize 
 about damsels in distress, jousting matches, and mysterious wizards in the forest. But when it 
 comes to movies or games, I'm a sucker for a guy clad in plate armor stuck on a white horse galloping 
 toward overwhelming enemy forces screaming "Honor!".
  With that said, I must also admit that I have never attempted my own review of a game on gamespot. com 
 nor any other gaming website. Even despite the three months of my life that I lost to World of 
 Warcraft or the hundreds of hours I lost to online Halo 2 multiplayer matches, I've never quite 
 felt the necessity to write a review. Part of the reason, most likely, is because the reviews of 
 those games says enough (I believe they both scored above 9.5) . What more can be said?!
  When I read the reviews of "Knights of Honor", I was almost ready to pass it off as another strategy 
 title whose goal was lofty and who success was shortcoming. But something within me told me this 
 game was going to be different.
  After dedicating over 20 hours of gameplay in four days (alot for a guy with a family and a full-time 
 job) , I must now confess that "KOH" is one of the most addictive and engrossing games I've ever 
 come across. Yes, some would say that the learning-curve is steep. Some would say that the game 
 tries to do so much. These arguments may hold up if you compare "KOH" to games such as the "Command 
 and Conquer" series or "Warcraft". True this game causes the gamer to think more than act, especially 
 at the early stages of the campaign. However, if you are someone who wants something other than 
 memorizing keystrokes and massing gigantic armies, you may want to try "KOH".
  The game manages to boil several complex elements of democracy, clandestine operations, town management 
 and even battles into several easy to manage steps. Battles can either be fought first-hand (i. e. 
 Total War: Rome style) or from the strategic view (i. e. Risk) . While the first-hand battles are 
 good, they don't compare to the detail and scale of Total War. Oddly enough, you probably won't 
 miss the battles. When you have several armies operating on several fronts, it's much easier to 
 watch your success from the throne rather than the hillside.
  What's most difficult to describe is the addictive nature of the game. While all of these elements 
 sound familiar, I've never found them to be so well integrated into a single gaming package. The 
 joy of arranging a marriage with an opposing king just before having your spy assassinate him is 
 something I've never experienced before. Watching your war machine march across Ireland only to 
 find a band of rebels tearing apart your home country is a frustration that's actually fun to behold. 
 
  While this game may not be for all (a single campaign can last tens of hours of gameplay) , the 
 payoff is so much greater. And if you don't think you're in the mood, go watch Braveheart. Then 
 you'll be itchin' to play the province of Highlands, just so you can create those Highland soldiers 
 with those two-handed Claymore swords.
  "For Freedom!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lordofinsight
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 18, 2005 11:12 am PT
Review:  Like many gamers I have been searching for the ultimate game that can transverse the two genres 
 of strategy and RTS. Whilst Knights of Honor is not the ultimate game, it does a very good job, 
 especially on the strategy side. 
  
  Good points:- The diplomacy is outstanding, and even with a weak country, good diplomacy can keep 
 you in the game until you have amassed a good enough army to take on some of your weaker rivals. 
 
  
  Espionage is also very clever and can at times cripple your empire if an enemy manages to infiltrate 
 your ranks. Enemy/your spies are capable of becoming army generals, a nations building manager, 
 a nations trader or head of the church. I was always suspicious of hiring new employees, but it 
 is impossible to win the game without them, unless you are extremely lucky and your royal household 
 has a massive male population. So far this has never happened to me and if disaster strikes and 
 you have no heirs a spy could then even become your King. I really enjoyed the suspense this added. 
 
  
  The strategic map, in my opinion, is about the best I have seen. Better than the total war series. 
 Although it does not have the detail of that series it is far easier to manage the movement of 
 your armies, assess a town/cities defensive capability, and view your counties resources. The graphics 
 are more than acceptable. 
  
  The collection of resources and army development is very effective, which means you spend very 
 little time micro managing so you can concentrate on troop deployment, espionage and diplomacy. 
 And there is enough there to insure you have to make clever and astute decisions in order to make 
 your nations economy run smoothly.
  
  Bad Points:- The RTS side. I used this hardly ever, a basic 2D map which I did not enjoy, and it 
 was not fun to use like Lords of the realm 2. 
  
  Overall a good game 40+ hours of enjoyable entertainment more towards strategic play than rts. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gumpo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 1, 2005 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Knights of honor is a blend of classic RTS action, and leader based turn based strategy games like 
 Heroes of Might and Magic. No clicking through the end of your turn here, though - as the whole 
 game is real time, and fought on two scales simultaneously. Primarily, you navigate over a map 
 of medeival Europe, where you can see your controlled provinces, towns, castles, armies, and your 
 own marshalls. (the leaders of your armies.) Secondly, when your marshall engages an army on the 
 main screen, you have the oppurtunity to take control of your units in a smaller, faster, RTS battle, 
 alot like Rome: Total War.
  
  The game is very deep. This is probably the closest thing to a simulation of Medeival politics 
 and war i have ever played. Firstly, you have a royal family. Your king will age with time, and 
 hopefully marry and have children. You can arrange marriages between your princes/princesses and 
 royalty of other nations, or let them marry on their own, which will usually be a commoner from 
 your nation. Your royal family can also be appointed to your royal court, to do various duties. 
 The royal court is made up of 9 knights, who can be either appointed there from the royal family, 
 or hired with gold. There are several jobs they can perform; Marshall, Spy, Builder, Farmer, Cleric, 
 and Merchant. Marshalls command your armies, Spies infiltrate other countires and gain information 
 on them and perform various jobs of deviously cool trechary, builders promote faster building in 
 the town they govern, farmers increase food production in towns the govern, Clerics increase piety 
 in the town they govern, and merchants trade between other nations for gold or resources.
  
  You kingdom generates 3 primary things - Gold, Piety, and Books. Gold is obviously the form 
 of currency, while Piety is used to influence nations to join your cause or make your nation more 
 powerful, and books are used to increase the skill of the knights on your royal court. There are 
 also several dozen other trade resources, which are either obtained through traveling to the new 
 world and bringing them back, or developed in towns you control based on their natural resources. 
 They can also be traded for. Resources serve to do two things. First, they increase the happiness 
 of your people, and second, once you control certain resources, you gain kingdom advantages, which 
 strengthen different aspects of your kingdom.
  
  The map is made up of countries, each with one castle and several towns. The countries are taken 
 over by capturing the castle found within. When your in control of the country, you can build various 
 buildings in the castle that will allow you to produce other things, be it gold, a resource, or 
 special military units. Of course, you can also build better walls, turrets, and whatnot as well. 
 The smaller towns in the country just serve to produce gold, food, and tools for their country. 
 (Tools are used along with gold to build structures.) Invading armies can sack towns, but they 
 wont take control of the country unless they attack the main castle.
  
  I've noticed a lot of people bash the A. I. in this game, but i think otherwise. The diplomatic 
 ties between countries are so much mroe sofisticated in KOH then the more popular games like civilization. 
 Other nations have their own agendas, but depending on their personalities (which are listed in 
 one of the screens) they make different choices. If one nation is at war with another, and you 
 invade one, the other nation will really start to like you, and be very likely to become your ally 
 and help you out in the future. The diplomacy in this game is a shining feature, but you have to 
 see it in work to fully grasp just how deep it is.
  
  Another cool thing the game throws in, is historical accuracy. For example, i started a game off 
 as the Highlands. (The northen most region in Scotland.) Because of the time period i picked, i 
 was at war with the lowlands, Lothian. York was firmly behind the lowlands, and while not at war 
 with me, quite upset with me. When i was able to invade the capitol of Lothian, i succefully completed 
 the campaign so many of us remember from the movie Braveheart - i reunited the Scottish clans, 
 and the game asked if i wanted to change my countries name back to Scottland, as it was meant to 
 be. Though this is the only case of this i've seen so far, im sure there are plenty more historical 
 campaigns in the game, which add a real good feel of authenticity.
  
  The sound in the game is no joke either. Great sound effects, decent musical score, and solid voice 
 acting, all help to bring you more into the role of a leader in medeival Europe. The only problem 
 i ever had with the sound, was occasionally the music would seemingly stop for a few minutes.
 
  
  The Visuals are great as well. Okay, yeah, its 2D.... So what? Its still one of the most lusciously 
 in depth and gorgeous looking games ive ever seen, even if the display setting is locked at 1024x768 
 resolution. There's plenty of fluff, and everything is well animated. The graphics are all clear 
 and serve to assist gameplay, and never get in the way of a good time.
  
  There are only 2 problems i can see that stop this game from being 100% perfect.
  
  Firstly, 
 there's just one map. Well, sorta 3, because of the different time periods, but everything is still 
 laid out exactly the same. The only thing that ever changes seems to be the resources the towns 
 have, and that might be based on time periods, as i havnt played through each more then once yet. 
 This game could have benefitted immensly from throwing in a few more specialized maps, like say 
 one of just England, or any other smaller region, or even better, a random map generator. In the 
 end, replayability is going to be killed because the map is going to get boring.
  
  Secondly, the multiplayer is a joke. No multiplayer campaigns? That just seems pointless to me. 
 There's nothing id like to do more then play a game of KOH with my friend, where we both align 
 together to take over the known world. The only multiplayer the game does have is skirmish battles, 
 which to me arnt that much fun to begin with.
  
  Ultimately, this is an excellent game, and i recommend it to anyone with a computer. period. Anyone 
 should like it. Its got a great tutorial to teach you the basics, and killer gameplay. My only 
 hope is this game gets a sequel in the near future with a random map generator and multiplayer, 
 or if im really lucky, just a patch to this game that would allow it. What are you waiting for? 
 get the demo now and play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sammy1493
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 26, 2005 11:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun for a short while. the graphics are dated but it make up for that by have 
 great gamyplay. there are lots of units to choose from and buildings as well. lots of variety withen 
 countreis to pick from. there was little story line wactually there wasn't one at all but in this 
 type of game it doesn't matter. this game is just a rome total war with bad graphics that takes 
 place in the medivel era. in my conclusion i woul suggest it even though all of these faults, you 
 are more than likley to like it if u favour long inteligent games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moraitheungimp
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 11, 2005 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Me and Knights of Honor have an interesting relationship, while it was released in early may, Eb 
 games actually wouldnt send it too me and I resorted to buying it from gamespot, but it was well 
 worth the wait!
  
  The game is a solid rts sim that has a feel of Crusader Kings mixed with Medieval: Total War, and 
 if you enjoyed either of those games this one should really appeal too you. It is not a flawless 
 game, to big points that came out at me was the total sandbox way the map works (Ireland has seemed 
 to destroy England on both campaigns I played) and the AI isnt amazingly great, but they get the 
 job done. More on the AI, while they dont always seem to be able to compete, its mostly because 
 I did pick the Ottomans, then the Byzantines. This Basically means that I had way to many advanced 
 troops, so If you are someone like, say Ireland, or Moldavia, it would be harder. 
  
  The Graphics are pretty stylish, and while they dont make my computer churn, they are very nice, 
 my only problem with them is the resoultion is suck lower than my LCD min setting so that can be 
 somewhat annoying, but I deal with it.
  
  One other small plus Is that it has a great musical and voice acting score, really gets one in 
 the mood. 
  
  In the end though, any History buff of this period should definitely pick this game up, or if you 
 are just looking for another Empire builder and were totally disappointed with recent hollow ones, 
 like Imperial Glory. This one is worth the wait, and if you want to get a little flavor, just try 
 the demo, its what sold me and is a pretty good representation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Languish
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2005 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Unlike many games out there, of this particular genre, you are able to download a demo in a try-before-you-buy 
 style arrangement... but beware! Once you play the demo you will be absolutely hooked!
  
  The learning curve of the game is very, very small. Within half an hour you will have mastered 
 the essentials to play the game and the long-term learning is rewarding. There is much to this 
 game that is learned through your first campaign (as i am doing now with Normandy) for example, 
 the ability to unite provinces, to form new kingdoms/nations.
  
  There has been some criticism by people of the poor battle simulation mode, and a lack of european 
 strategic mode, for multiplayer. Personally i dont have a major problem with that. I occassionally 
 lead my troops into battle but otherwise let it run on 'automatic'. The multiplayer aspect of the 
 game plays well enough but after playing through some maps the novelty does wear off. It's still 
 enjoyable but not the reason i purchased it.
  
  The game also runs remarkable well on low end systems but still looks lush. I can run it on my 
 P3 600Mhz laptop, with all the graphical preferences off, and it plays fine. If you are in any 
 doubt at all - download the demo. The difference between the demo and full game, testing my laptop, 
 was negligible if anything. 
  
  The sound is good, and the use of voices works well. I can't comment on the music because i hate 
 playing any games like this to music... no matter if they are 'period' authentic. The battle sounds 
 and marshall voices are good.
  
  To round off... this game is an excellent, really open ended game suitable for novice gamers who 
 just want a quick game here and there or masters of RTS looking for the next challenge. Its also 
 worth noting that the community appears to be small yet close-knit and eager to help new players. 
 I havent enjoyed a game like this for some considerable time and i thoroughly recommend it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jayhawk
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 26, 2005 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Knights of Honor may seem like just another game of conquering Europe, but it has more than enough 
 twists and differences to make it both innovative and thoroughly enjoyable. 
  
  Set on a single map which runs from the Western reaches of the British Isles and the Iberian Peninsula 
 to Asia Minor and the Ural Mountains it offers you a multitude of provinces to conquer. With three 
 period (Early, High and Late Medieval ) to chose from and several dozen of Kingdoms per period 
 the options seem limitless. Should you go for an easy start and pick a large kingdom or should 
 you go for a challenge from the first moment by choosing a small, one province kingdom wedged between 
 powerful neighbours? 
  
  The most important element in the game is your royal dynasty. Should your king die without offspring 
 you run the risk of going back to square one as your kingdom will fall apart in a patchwork of 
 independent kingdoms. Normally this is easy, but taking risks by having your monarch lead armies, 
 a rival's successful assassination attempt or pure blind luck can all result in a kingdom much 
 smaller than it used to be. 
  
  The second most important element are your knights. You can hire up to ten of these worthies and 
 assign them tasks as varied as marshalling your armies, looking after the spiritual welfare of 
 your people or spying on your rivals. Male members of your royal family can also fulfill any of 
 these roles, but beware of the possible consequences should any of them be killed. 
  
  Your marshals can raise armies to conquer provinces by successfully laying siege to the capital. 
 Armies can consist of a maximum of nine squads of troops of various make up. The available troops 
 depend on the kingdom you are playing, the province you recruit them and the improvements (building) 
 you make to your city. Of course, you may be lucky and bump into some interesting mercenaries which 
 you can interest in your cause should you offer them enough money. Apart from the regular troops 
 you can enlist four additional squadrons of siege troops, assuming you trained your marshal sufficiently.
 
  
  Each battle can be fought either in a quick automatic mode or hands on, with you leading each squadron 
 personally on a smaller scale detail map. But be careful, losing your marshall will lose you the 
 battle. 
  
  As mentioned you can build improvements for the capital cities of each province. These include 
 military buildings, like barracks and smithies, but also defensive buildings like walls and towers, 
 and economic buildings. The economic buildings are limited by the natural resources found in each 
 province, something which seems to be assigned at random when the game starts. Quite a few of the 
 more advanced buildings need to have existing resources/enhancements in place and together with 
 the limited building space this will lead to some careful planning. 
  
  Acquiring resources also gives access to the so called Kingdom Advantages, which give various bonuses. 
 For some of these you will need access to exotic goods which can be imported in some seaside town, 
 providing you build the correct improvements.
  
  Resources can also be acquired through trade with other kingdoms, for which you need to assign 
 one or more of your knights as merchants. I personally often have members of the royal family assigned 
 to trade as this is a relative safe occupation.
  
  The graphics are good looking if a bit petite. Your little armies waltz around the map, birds fly 
 through the sky and the various towns show their improvements in their graphics. The whole map 
 is constantly alive and active and you will have a steady stream of incoming messages about the 
 affairs of other kingdoms. The sound effects are nice, but nothing really special. The game runs 
 smoothly and has a high replay value as different starting positions often mean very different 
 games. 
  
  All in all, Knights of Honor is a very involved game, and I haven't even mentioned the crusades 
 you can organise, converting conquered provinces to your faith of choice, assassinating your enemies, 
 marrying your vassals daughter or having your marshals revolt and your provinces rebel. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
