-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Kohan II: Kings of War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/kingsofwar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 21, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.1, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 353 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Global Star Software
Developer: TimeGate Studios
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Sep 20, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Kohan II retains its predecessor's unique gameplay while also making key changes that distinguish 
 it both from the original and from any other real-time strategy games in the intervening years. 
 

  Kohan: Immortal Sovereigns was released in 2001, and though it wasn't a blockbuster success, many 
 of those who actually played it loved it. Its particular take on real-time strategy focused on 
 the strategic control of companies of troops and on eliminating much of the tedious micromanagement 
 often associated with the genre. As such, the game proved to be an innovative change of pace from 
 the conventions of real-time strategy. The sequel, Kohan II: Kings of War, retains its predecessor's 
 unique gameplay while also making key changes that distinguish it both from the original and from 
 any other RTS games in the intervening years. And while some of the changes streamline a slickly 
 designed RTS model even further, they don't detract from this great game's own winning formula. 

          Kohan heroes round up followers to save the world.     

  Kohan II's fantasy setting takes place long after the events of the first Kohan game. Naava Daishan 
 is chasing after the remains of the Ceyah faction, who were the aggressors and losers of the first 
 game. Led by Sebak, the Ceyah survivors escape from Naava's grasp and unleash a dark power upon 
 Khaldun. The forces of humanity are on the brink of annihilation, and it's up to Naava and Jonas 
 Teramun, a recently awakened Kohan with no memories, to unite the races of the land. The storyline 
 is a little unoriginal for a fantasy setting, but it is enjoyable nonetheless, thanks to a few 
 well-placed plot twists. The last mission is also quite fun and suitably climactic, although the 
 game's ending is rather dull and disappointing. The single-player campaign spans 25 missions and 
 should take anywhere from 15 hours to twice that long to complete, depending on your strategies 
 and if you complete optional secondary objectives. At any rate, like its predecessor, the campaign 
 in Kohan II is too scripted and suffers from weak artificial intelligence. Also, it'll be an absolute 
 breeze for experienced RTS players at the default difficulty, and even hard difficulty won't be 
 much of a challenge for the first half of the game. The missions are varied, though, and you'll 
 get to play as each of the game's races at various parts in the campaign. You may or may not enjoy 
 this aspect, because even though this lends some variety to the gameplay, you don't really get 
 attached to any particular characters or their causes.  

  Kohan II features six playable races: human, haroun, drauga, gauri, undead, and shadow. Each race 
 has its own unique units, buildings, and economic factors, such as reliances on particular types 
 of resources over other types. These economic twists turn out to be what most differentiates the 
 races from each other, because the respective military units are basically functional equivalents 
 despite their aesthetic differences. Each race can also belong to a particular faction. There are 
 five factions total (although not every race can choose from all of the factions) and each of these 
 confers certain benefits. For example, the council faction reduces the cost of buildings by 10 
 percent. These factions allow you to further tailor the game to your play style, although the factions 
 mainly come into play in skirmish or multiplayer matches since you can't choose your faction in 
 the campaign. Overall, though the game's races and factions don't have a ton of personality to 
 them, the various combinations can make for significant and interesting gameplay differences.  
 

          Former enemies join your cause for their own reasons.     

  The Kohan series differs from traditional RTS games in both economic and military terms, and Kohan 
 II continues this tradition. For one thing, you don't gather resources in Kohan II. Instead, buildings 
 and mines will provide an income rate for the resources. Gold is the only resource that you actually 
 accumulate. The other resources -- stone, wood, iron, and mana crystals -- are quantified only by a 
 positive or negative flow. Gold is the bottom line, so if you have a negative flow of the latter 
 resources, you can still recruit units requiring these resources by paying an additional cost in 
 gold. A positive flow of these other resources won't automatically grant you more gold, but some 
 of your structures (or all of them, depending on your race) can be upgraded into exporters where 
 you can exchange surplus resource income for gold. This rather elegant system actually still requires 
 you to spend just as much of your attention on resource management as you would in a traditional 
 RTS game. You can easily find yourself overspending and bringing your gold income down to a trickle. 
 And since gold is required to buy units, buildings, and upgrades, you won't get very far without 
 it. You'll have to carefully manage your income flows by converting buildings to exporters or producers, 
 depending on your needs, in order to maximize your gold.     

  In Kohan II, military units are handled differently from other real-time strategy games. Units 
 are organized into companies, and you directly control these companies rather than all the individual 
 forces that comprise the companies. Companies have three formation options -- combat, skirmish, and 
 column -- which bestow certain effects on the company. For example, combat formation decreases the 
 company's movement rate but offers complete combat effectiveness, while column formation gives 
 a boost to speed but cuts combat effectiveness in half. When to switch between different formations 
 tends to be pretty obvious. One issue with the game is that units in combat formation are too eager 
 to fight  anything , and they tend to stick to a target once engaged unless they are ordered to 
 run. As such, in larger battles, it's common to see members of your companies automatically attacking 
 buildings, walls, or other low-priority targets when there are more immediate threats in the area. 
 You'll need to micromanage them more than you might expect in a game that alleviates a lot of other 
 micromanagement issues.  

          Walls of wood won't stop this invading army.     

  A company is destroyed only if every last member of the company is destroyed, but if you manage 
 to keep just one member alive, you can retreat back to a town or fort. These installations have 
 a supply zone where your members will be automatically healed and replenished. It's hard to wipe 
 out a company in Kohan II. Retreating companies will automatically move at their highest speed, 
 so you will have to chase down your opponents to permanently get rid of them. In fact, you'll usually 
 have to spend a lot of time chasing retreating companies, so you have to decide if it's worthwhile 
 to press the attack or to focus your energies elsewhere. Be wary if you let your enemy live to 
 fight another day -- companies replenish their health much more quickly in Kohan II than in the previous 
 game, which quickens the pace and has a way of making battles quite interesting. We fought battle 
 after battle over just one city in a multiplayer game because both sides were able to quickly replenish 
 their forces.  

  Companies in Kohan II include four frontline units, two flanking units, two support units, and 
 one captain. You can mix and match any of your available units, and you're encouraged to do so. 
 An example of this would be a frontline of four swordsmen, a flank of two archers, and a healer 
 and mage as your two support units. Your swordsmen would engage the enemy melee combatants, your 
 archers and mage would shoot from afar, and your healer would keep your swordsmen at full health. 
 However, in practice, it's not necessarily this neat -- you may viably swarm your opponent with greater 
 numbers for good results. We finished the campaign by simply recruiting companies with the strongest 
 infantry in the frontline and flank, and using the healers as support. With a couple of pure archer 
 companies in the mix, we were able to mow through any opposition. This is rather unfortunate for 
 the campaign, because it means about half the units in the game are either optional or useless, 
 depending on how you look at it. Of course, multiplayer games do require you to be more careful 
 in your company composition, especially when you factor in heroes and experienced companies.  

 
  The immortal Kohan heroes of Khaldun return in Kohan II. Like companies, the heroes gain experience 
 and level up to become stronger. They provide extra bonuses to the company, such as protective 
 shields or healing. Unlike its predecessor, dead heroes in Kohan II do not require gold to revive. 
 Instead, they will automatically revive inside a city's supply zone like an ordinary unit; however, 
 they will lose all experience and start from ground zero -- so there's a big incentive to keep your 
 hero-led companies from getting wiped out. Heroes seem more powerful in the sequel. A veteran company 
 with a Kohan hero and a healer can trample multiple foes at once. Our three swordsmen companies, 
 along with Kohan heroes, held off a force three times its size due to their veteran status. We 
 experienced similar results in a multiplayer game, so you definitely want to keep your experienced 
 units alive.  

          Spells are as devastating as they look.     

  The cities in Kohan II are also handled differently from the first game, and they represent the 
 key locations on each map. First of all, you can only build cities in predetermined settlement 
 spots, which has several impacts on the gameplay. The limited cities, along with the resource mines 
 scattered across the map, cap the income you can generate. Resource generators become much more 
 valuable. You don't have to worry about defenseless or unproductive mines, though; they no longer 
 need to be in a supply zone to generate income, and you can build forts to protect mines and other 
 key points on the map. Forts, like cities, have garrisons of militia that will automatically run 
 out and attack anyone who ventures too close to the strongpoint. They are a welcome addition to 
 the Kohan series, because they buy you time so you can get to a besieged city before it falls. 
 The limited cities also let you know where points of contention will be for the entire game, and 
 it also stops players from building cities to postpone an inevitable defeat at the end of a game. 
 In spite of the fixed settlement spots, you still need to scout the map. Not only can your opponents 
 build on settlement spots, but they also can build forts to block your movement. A few well-placed 
 forts can delay and wound your reinforcements from getting to a besieged city, for example.    
  
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jeroenvdl
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time - you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. When writing your review, remember to keep the language 
 clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the 
 first time - you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback 
 associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, 
 save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chilly
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 3, 2006 8:54 pm PT
Review:  OK game till you get past the learning curve, then it really takes off! This is one of the best, 
 in my opinion. Lots of detail but not overwhelming. The art, and sounds are amazing! Lot's of options 
 from the start. I like to play the undead mostly for the way they look. I have learned that the 
 best way to win is to scout out most of the map at start, while building up your town. Then build 
 an army with about 3 or 4 mixed units ( like archers, and infantry units) , then take as much as 
 you can till you acquire 300 gold to raise your town to the next level. Watch your resources. When 
 they go into the red, you lose gold, and gold is what is what you need! 
  
  This is the kind of game you will want to play over, and over again. I really can't think of anything 
 bad to say about this game. It is done really well. Definitely a labor of love! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sponny1
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2006 2:42 am PT
Review:  Kohan is by far one of the best RTS games that i have played Grameplay: its addictive gameplay are 
 nice and sweet cause of its unique features to each race has Royalist, Councilst and ect. Though 
 my favourite race is the Haroun cause it has a nice special feature plus each race has its own 
 special featuers for example the Drauga has strong attack points but weak defence
  and the Haroun arent really needed to build thier building cause it would build themselve While 
 the The units arent much but each has a some thing great to it The Battles are really nice as you 
 have to create a team, teams are usually built by instant or custom but while its good if one were 
 to choose custom cause there are special troops that you cna place in there and you could actually 
 attach a hero but each hero has weakpoint to it but if there isnt any hero thats available there 
 would be a captain Titans are like catapult, juggernaut and ect but there are only three units to 
 this, The titan as the leading group itself and two support units
  
  if your wondering how i played my game hapily well try checking some of the game vedios cause that 
 is actually how played the game cause my Graphics engine and Mega byte are very high The Campain 
 is very nice and tuotorials are able to be remmembered while the cutscene and challeging mission 
 is what that make the game good the game also has a some slight errors and unrealistic scenes
 
  
  Some independent enemies are great, suitable for the battlefield and ech will give gold, extra units 
 and ect
  
  Graphics: The Grahpics are very impressice and very great for a depts of a RTS game that has a great 
 environment and great lighting effects While Charecters and units are nicely done htey seem more 
 impressice than Batlle For Middle Earth 2
  
  The environments are nice and openfield are always a great place to go for a full scale war
  
 
  Water detaild arent as bright nor do they seem to really impress me
  
  Sound: The music are well done and sounds of sword fights, explosion, animal hounding, magic sonds 
 environment sounds and voice acting are absoloutly impressive
  
  some voice are very fitting to the units and charecters like for example the sound for shouting 
 of the nighmare are very fitting
  
  Value: The game used to be very expensive but eversince i got it yesterday i was shock to see that 
 it was only 20 bucks and it was original too!!!!
  
  while it used to be 40 bucks the money was worth 40bucks but buying for 20 bucks well......
  
 
  it just felt wierd Reviews tilt: The game is one of the most entertaining RTS at its finnest
  
 
  the game will truly be in the so called gamespot's one of the most greatest games of all time in 
 5 or 6 years from now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: obrent
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 3, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Kohan 2 - Kings of War, is overall a good game that can be enjoyed by anyone whos is good or likes 
 playing RTS games. With the company system, having to manage unit by unit is over! A company has 
 5 - 9 units in it. It always has a leader and a frontline (4) but can also have a flank and up 
 to 2 support units.
  
  Graphics: Very Good (for RTS Game)
  Sound: Above Average
  Time Spendable: Hundreds of hours, either out of frustration or fun.
  Overall: A good game with 
 only the bit every now and then that could be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aniaml4890
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 31, 2005 10:31 pm PT
Review:  If you are looking to play this game, don't expect an immersive single-player campaign. The single-player 
 side of this game is rather quick and uneventful. It's too bad too, since the storyline had good 
 potential. Therefore, the single-player campaign is more of a beginner's tutorial for the multiplayer 
 arena.
  
  Gamespy hosts the multiplayer community for Kohan2. It's nice that Kohan2 had a multiplayer option, 
 but it would have been better to use anyone but Gamespy. The Gamespy interface is clunky and appears 
 to have been slapped together at the lowest cost possible. Aside from the dissapointing Gamespy 
 software, the multiplayer aspect of Kohan2 is quite good. Battles are normally very balanced, minus 
 a few overly-powerful units. 
  
  To play effectively at all in multiplayer you to finish the single-player campaign. To play well 
 in multiplayer you need lots of experience. The competition is stiff and team coordination is a 
 key to victory.
  
  The gameplay in Kohan2 multiplayer is basically a battle over settlement sites. On these sites 
 you your fortresses that house your unit producing and unit enhancing buildings. Your settlements 
 also gain you invaluable resources to fund your army. In addition to that you can construct gold, 
 iron ore, mana, and wood mines on those deposits. The darker races rely more on mana (which is 
 harder to come by) where the lighter forces rely more on gold and wood.
  
  Victory is achieved by a mixture of good communication, speed, good tactics, and overall strategy. 
 Overall strategy depends much on one's economy. Large and strong armies are very expensive. The 
 more units you have to pay for the slower your economy will grow and the weaker it will be later 
 on. There's a balance of unit production to economic growth. People tend to lean one way or the 
 other based off the rest of their strategy.
  
  Overall, Kohan2 is a fun and fairly solid game. The multiplayer has a loyal, if small, community. 
 If you enjoy fantasy-rts then you'll undoubtedly enjoy this. Otherwise, you might look elsewhere 
 since there are currently lots of other good RTS games out atm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alec-Eiffel
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 27, 2004 8:06 pm PT
Review:  In an age of hassle and dissillusionment, gamers don't want to sit down to a strategy game that 
 will take them upwards of two or three hours to get used to, they want quick and simple fun. Kohan 
 II: Kings of War developed by TimeGate Studios (who is currently making another real time strategy 
 game, Axis & Allies) is the absolute definition of simple. In fact, I'll go on to say it's one 
 of the most streamlined strategy games ever made, while that's not always a good thing, it is in 
 this case. This sequel to the excellent 2001 RTS, Kohan: Immortal Kings, is more intuitive and 
 innovative than its predecessor. The building scheme is swift, there's no need to worry about where 
 you're going to place your next structure, because once you click the "build [insert building name 
 here] ", the AI controlled peasants do that without error. But the twist to construction is, that 
 as opposed to teching up your town center with whatever resources you have, you must be in control 
 of however many buildings that tier calls for. The first tier town center needs three structures 
 for example. This allows for quick and easy management, allowing you to concentrate more on battles. 
 Which brings us to the single-player portion of the game, and as many people will disagree with 
 me, I feel as if this aspect was more of an afterthought compared to the multi-player. It's very 
 easy, and it relies on the standard rock, paper, scissor rules of most real time strategy games, 
 but it's kind of unnerving that in absolutely every case, size matters. For instance, if your enemy 
 has a group of units that counter your units, but you still have about 10 or 12 more than he does, 
 there's not a chance that he has a sufficient battle tactic to overcome your numbers. Depending 
 on which mode of play you plan to beat the campaign on (even though both are very easy) , the single-player 
 should take you about 10-15 hours to complete.
  
  The multi-player aspect of the game, for lack of a better term, is "where it's at". Using the Gamespy 
 network, it's pretty easy to pick a game to start you battles. The network code runs a decent clip, 
 and rarely gets laggy, which is to be expected. But in terms of gameplay, the simple base building 
 management makes for enormously fun possibilities, and while it doesn't give you a lot of leeway 
 to construct, it still makes the battles all the more interesting knowing that your opponent is 
 up against the same management. More developers need to make a streamlined system like that in 
 Kohan II, but it needs to offer more, but as it is, it sets up the groundwork for many good multi-player 
 RTS's to come. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
