-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Kohan: Immortal Sovereigns
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/kohanimmortalsovereigns/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 29, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.6
Critic Score: 8.5, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 137 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: TimeGate Studios
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Mar 14, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Kohan's few shortcomings don't diminish the fact that it brings together a variety of proven concepts 
 to offer a real-time strategy experience unlike any other. 

 Real-time strategy games have evolved in fits and starts since the genre arose with the release 
 of Dune II almost nine years ago. During that time, real-time strategy games have gained notoriety 
 for requiring more mouse-clicking than actual strategy. While games such as Total Annihilation 
 and Age of Empires II streamlined the interface and unit artificial intelligence so as to remove 
 some of the micromanagement, the real-time strategy genre has largely remained fast-paced and thus 
 hasn't appealed to players who prefer a more deliberate approach. The fantasy-themed Kohan: Immortal 
 Sovereigns could very well be the game to bridge this gap.           Each unit onscreen represents 
 a company of warriors...    

 Kohan does the inconceivable: It introduces real strategy to traditional real-time gaming that doesn't 
 involve any unit micromanagement. While even previous standouts in the genre have relied to some 
 extent on requiring players to get the most out of each individual unit, whether military or civilian, 
 Kohan eliminates this by establishing a completely different level of abstraction. The number of 
 actual units on the map at any given time is quite low, at least at the level of player control. 
 The complexity and strategic depth arise from the construction and manipulation of these units 
 on a larger scale. It's an application of turn-based concepts to real-time gaming that is very 
 much along the lines of Strategy First's more complex game, the recently released Europa Universalis. 
 What Kohan has in common with that game is that it requires you to really think about what you're 
 doing whenever you click a mouse button.   

  The military model in Kohan is built on the concept of companies. You can raise a limited number 
 of companies based on the number and size of the settlements under your control. The composition 
 of each company can vary widely, and this is the basis for much of the strategy involved in combat. 
 A company has one frontline unit type and up to two support unit types, as well as a captain. The 
 identity of these units depends on their classification and what structures are present in the 
 settlement where the company is being raised. For example, archers and footmen can be either frontline 
 or support units, while paladins and magicians are two types that can take only the support role. 
 In addition, a paladin can be recruited only in a town that has both a barracks and a temple. These 
 unit distinctions and structure dependencies are well integrated into the economic design. There 
 are different factions (ceyah, council, nationalist, and royalist) that have different buildings, 
 upgrades, and units available. Companies can further be grouped into regiments.           ... comprising 
 infantry, cavalry, archers, mages, a captain, and more    

 Once in combat, a company functions as a unit, although the individual units in that company fight 
 and sustain damage individually. This is where the careful combination of unit types is crucial, 
 since different units grant certain bonuses and have varying attack and defense skills. Once a 
 company is engaged, it will fight until told to retreat or rout (or until it routs on its own) . 
 The captain of the company can either be in command mode or engage mode, and when in the latter 
 he fights as a normal unit. Captains can be replaced by heroes (the Kohan immortals of the game's 
 title) , and these have additional abilities, such as spells. When a Kohan is killed, he can be 
 "awakened" in a town by paying a price in gold, but only as part of a newly raised company. Otherwise, 
 damaged units heal their hit points while in the "supply range" of a friendly settlement. Awakening 
 a hero is only one of the uses for gold, which is the only resource in the game that is actually 
 used directly.   

  Unlike almost all real-time strategy games, Kohan has no fixed resources. Instead, settlements 
 produce a variety of resources according to the structures they contain. The key is that while 
 wood, iron, mana, and ore are used to produce gold, none of these resources needs to be mined (except 
 in the rare case of a mine or other reservoir appearing on the map) . Instead, resources are generated 
 by structures, and these resources in turn generate gold. A deficiency in one resource can be compensated 
 for by a surplus in another, more valuable resource or by the combination of surpluses in less 
 valuable ones. Constructing a building or other structure almost always causes an increase in the 
 rate of one resource being collected but a deficit in another, so managing these structures is 
 a key element of strategy. Ultimately, the only resource that is actually spent is gold. Gold is 
 collected as a function of other resources present and is generated at the rate of a certain amount 
 per minute. Gold is used to buy buildings and upgrades, awaken heroes, raise and maintain companies, 
 and everything else in the game. One of the skirmish modes even has the amassing of gold as the 
 scenario objective.    

 None of Kohan's mechanics are especially original in themselves: The company system bears more than 
 a passing resemblance to the army system in the turn-based Warlords series, and the hero focus 
 is reminiscent of Heroes of Might and Magic as well as Warlords Battlecry. The genius of Kohan 
 is that it applies these decidedly abstract design elements to a real-time game without robbing 
 the game of its sense of urgency. While the solo campaign missions do drag at times (which is mostly 
 the fault of the mission design rather than the game system) , in skirmish mode or in multiplayer 
 this is not the case at all. Time spent in indecision can be used to effectively punish you, and 
 an enemy offensive is all the more abrupt and jarring if launched after an extended period of seeming 
 inactivity. Being lulled into complacency by the deceivingly slow pace of the game is invariably 
 fatal against good opposition.           The high-fantasy setting in Kohan isn't as impressive 
 as the rest of the game    

 Kohan's other achievement is that it doesn't require a human opponent to provide the aforementioned 
 good opposition. Instead, Kohan's computer opponent is perfectly capable of inflicting a stinging 
 defeat on a human player in skirmish mode. While it does receive production advantages on the higher 
 difficulty levels, the computer opponent seems substantially different from traditional real-time 
 strategy AI, and this manifests itself most clearly in the way it eschews mass attacks and reacts 
 selectively to your threats. The computer will ignore an enemy offensive that's not strategically 
 dangerous in favor of massing its forces at a more decisive point and will even accept the loss 
 of peripheral towns to buy time for a well-placed counteroffensive. It even does a good job of 
 using feints to disguise its real targets and makes good use of enveloping tactics. While it's 
 still no match for the best human players, and an experienced player will eventually learn to recognize 
 its patterns, the feeling of playing against Kohan's computer opponent is much different from that 
 of most real-time strategy games. This is especially striking when you first begin play.   

  Unfortunately, this AI behavior is not so evident in the solo campaign game, which ends up being 
 one of Kohan's weaker points. While the mission difficulty gradually increases, and later missions 
 are both more challenging and somewhat more interesting, the emphasis on storytelling leads to 
 missions that are a bit too tightly scripted. This results in uneven pacing if tasks are performed 
 in the nonprescribed order, and in some cases it can mean the inability to complete a mission since 
 completed objectives are sometimes not credited if not performed in the proper order.   

  These problems vanish in skirmish mode and in multiplayer, both of which are highly customizable 
 to allow for a wide variety of playing conditions. An excellent feature in the game is the ability 
 to play cooperatively in multiplayer against multiple computer opponents, though all players must 
 have their own copy of the game and their own unique CD key. This caused recurrent difficulties 
 in joining online games, most likely as a result of keys being auto-generated by pirates -- which 
 unfortunately means that legitimate users may occasionally be locked out by those who have obtained 
 the game through illegal means.           The computer makes for a powerful, highly competent opponent 
    

 If Kohan has one real failing, it's the inability to establish a distinctive atmosphere, in the 
 way the Heroes of Might &amp; Magic series did. The sound in the game is a little disappointing, 
 because of the mediocre voice-overs and annoying unit acknowledgements. The graphics are very good, 
 but the game environment is still rather flat. The lack of a distinctive gameworld, despite the 
 good story about the awakening of the Kohan immortals, means the game won't have quite the level 
 of appeal to all players that other strategy classics have. Kohan lifts you out of the nose-in-the-sand 
 environment of micromanagement, but once your head is high enough to take in the surroundings, 
 you realize they're not quite what they could have been. Still, Kohan has its moments in this regard, 
 and the sight of a number of companies encamped (and visibly entrenched) , awaiting the start of 
 an offensive, can be an impressive sight.   

  Kohan's few shortcomings don't diminish the fact that it brings together a variety of proven concepts 
 to offer a real-time strategy experience unlike any other. Players who were turned off by having 
 to click around too much in traditional real-time strategy games and who looked to turn-based gaming 
 instead would be well advised to give Kohan a try. It's a shining example of the fact that you 
 can combine real-time gaming and strategy and come up with something that's an excellent combination 
 of both.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: picklessmulan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 6:40 am PT
Review:  Graphics: The persons and the details are good and the rest in the gsame is super good. The cutscens 
 are too few 
  
  Sound : The voices is no good att all, And the music is mediocre.
  
  Gameplay : its regular for a Strategy game. 
  
  Value: The value is very good at least 20 h 
 and more if you want to. You can descide much on you own how much you want to do on each mission. 
 There are 16 missions and after that you can try another level for there are trhee of them. Then 
 there is the multiplayer section were you fight against other humans. 
  
  Tilt: The game is very funny and higly addictive . Sometimes you get really stuck by the computer 
 for many hours and the time just fly away. and sometimes you are thinking of the next mission and 
 your tactics when you are sitting at work. Some of the missions are very long and boring though 
 so its not only sunshine. 
  
  + Addictive
  + Different levels
  
  - Voices 
  - To few cutscenes 
  
  Graphics 7
  Sound 5
  Gameplay 7
  Value 9
  Tilt 8
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
