-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Korsun Pocket
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/korsunpocket/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 21, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.6
Critic Score: 8.5, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 59 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Matrix Games
Developer: Strategic Studies
Genre: Wargame
Date:     Jul 31, 2003

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Korsun Pocket is an excellent game, is compelling and addictive for anyone interested in deep strategy 
 games, and is easily the best 2D wargame for the PC to date. 

  In a PC gaming world dominated by ultrarealistic 3D graphics and fast action, a traditional hex-based 
 wargame like Korsun Pocket might seem like a throwback to the 1980s. And in many ways it is. This 
 is a computerized version of a traditional board wargame, complete with electronic dice rolls and 
 combat results tables. But don't let that fool you -- Korsun Pocket is an excellent game, is compelling 
 and addictive for anyone interested in deep strategy games, and is easily the best 2D wargame for 
 the PC to date.  

          Russian forces massed for the launch of the Korsun Pocket offensive.     

  Korsun Pocket 
 re-creates the epic WWII battle in early 1944 in which the Russians attempted to encircle and destroy 
 one of the few remaining German strongholds on the eastern front. The game is played in turns representing 
 12 hours of real time, at a regimental scale, using a traditional "I go, you go" turn-based system. 
 While it plays like an old-fashioned board game, from the hexes to the little square unit markers 
 to the roll of the die for resolving combat, no tabletop board wargame has ever been this refined 
 and user-friendly. The mass of rules and tables required for historical authenticity in this genre 
 results in steep learning curves and thus has traditionally produced a struggle between depth and 
 gameplay. Korsun Pocket's design handles this conflict with tremendous elegance.  

  While there are indeed many rules and nuances that must be considered while playing, Korsun Pocket 
 provides almost all of the information desired with a simple hotkey or click of the mouse button. 
 What could be discouragingly dense and confusing is made crystal clear and intuitive via pop-up 
 boxes and color displays on the map. For example, determining whether a unit may be resupplied 
 with ammunition requires a complex set of calculations involving terrain, interdiction forces, 
 distance from supply sources, and more, but all you need to do in Korsun Pocket is click on the 
 Show Supplies button and see if the unit is in green or red. Want to know which of your multitude 
 of units can take advantage of replacements? Simply click on the replacements square, and all of 
 the forces that can replenish are highlighted -- another button will cycle you through each of those 
 units.  

          Details such as the optimal supply locations are simply displayed with color overlays. 
     

  The best example of how Korsun Pocket uses the power of the computer to make the complexities transparent 
 to the player is the combat advisor feature. Combat odds are everything when deciding where to 
 attack and defend; a five-to-one attack can be a very risky proposition, whereas a ten-to-one overrun 
 can provide the rare guaranteed success. The rules for calculating those odds involve a wide variety 
 of permutations of artillery, leadership, terrain, barrages, combat shifts, and much more. It's 
 impossible to simply look at the map and know with surety where all of the best opportunities for 
 attack lie. In previous wargames, you either had to tediously calculate every combination of factors 
 for each opportunity, conduct numerous trial-and-error operations, or simply make your best guesses. 
 Korsun Pocket's combat advisor displays every attack opportunity on the map with the associated 
 potential odds. Click on the enemy unit, and it will highlight the forces you have to bring to 
 bear to obtain those odds. There will be many situations where carrying out the attack will not 
 be a good strategy -- for example, if it forces you to move units in such a way as to weaken your 
 line -- but the combat advisor provides a simple and powerful overview of the battlefield and allows 
 you to spend time in strategic planning rather than conducting calculations of minutiae. It's a 
 great example of the overall design concept behind Korsun Pocket.  

  The game is deceptively simple to play, yet as you gain experience you will uncover the multiple 
 layers of complexity at your own speed. Sure, you can simply point and click on your units and 
 send them scurrying across the beautiful maps, attacking hither and yon. But as you spend more 
 time with the game, even if you are a novice to the genre, Korsun Pocket will teach you to appreciate 
 the importance of subtleties such as when to continue the attack and when to hold something back 
 for defense, the difference between simply running away and conducting an effective retreat that 
 inflicts serious casualties on your attacker, the critical importance of the effects of terrain, 
 how rivers can be your best friend or worst enemy, why supply issues aren't the boring details 
 you might suppose, and much more. The beauty of Korsun Pocket is that you aren't forced to understand 
 all of these to learn to play, but their significance is revealed as you learn to win.     

 
  One key to the ease of learning Korsun Pocket is an excellent and thorough eight-scenario tutorial. 
 Unlike many tutorials that merely teach you which buttons do what, this mini-manual not only instructs 
 you on how to use the interface, but also guides you through the basic tactical and strategic aspects 
 of the game. Once you've completed the tutorial you will have learned most of what you need to 
 know to effectively lead your virtual army, and you can then use the full PDF manual on disc as 
 a reference when needed.  

          The combat advisor will clearly display your best opportunities for attack.     

  One 
 of the biggest criticisms players have of many strategy games (and perhaps most wargames) concerns 
 their artificial intelligence and its failings. Fortunately, Korsun Pocket provides you with a 
 very competent AI opponent (no surprise, since designer Roger Keating has been an AI pioneer for 
 many years) . A lot of wargaming AI is similar to the early days of chess simulations, in that it 
 simply looks at the best calculated move for that one turn with no real long-term strategic considerations, 
 thus providing a human player with a huge advantage. Korsun Pocket's computer opponent is not only 
 tactically superb, but it is also quite strategically competent. It is certainly good enough to 
 kick your butt back to Berlin if you are a novice-to-intermediate wargamer, and even veteran grognards 
 will find plenty to challenge them. Still, there's no substitute for playing against a canny and 
 unpredictable human, which is why the play-by-email function is so welcome. The game features an 
 e-mail service that will capture, compress, and e-mail your turn to your opponent, along with any 
 comments you care to attach, all without your having to leave the game.  

  Sound and graphics don't usually make or break a wargame in the same way they can impact other 
 genres, but the graphics do impact playability. Korsun Pocket features some beautiful maps that 
 effectively display terrain and unit data. The resolution is locked at 1280x768, which was perfectly 
 usable on a good-sized monitor but provided a little bit of a challenge when trying to see the 
 smallest unit details on smaller monitors of around 15 inches. Sound is minimal, as you might expect 
 in a hex-based wargame. There's the typical sound of battle during combat resolution and the tromping 
 of troops or clanging of armor as the units move, but it's really superfluous to gameplay.  

          Every piece of information you need is available with a simple mouse click.     

 
  While Korsun Pocket features a single battle, there's a lot of replayability packed into the game. 
 In addition to the full campaign, there are four shorter scenarios focusing on battles that were 
 key components of the overall struggle and a hidden gem in the inclusion of a fully updated version 
 of The Ardennes Offensive, SSG's acclaimed treatment of the Battle of the Bulge. A game editor 
 is included, and new scenarios are already showing up on the Internet. Further adding to the replayability 
 is the ability to toggle on an option in which some units will show up with unknown strength, revealed 
 only when coming into contact with them. Last but not least, the weather can be set to either follow 
 the historical pattern or a more-random pattern. Weather has a very important effect on what you 
 can and cannot do (for example, frozen ground allows for fast vehicle movement while mud may completely 
 stall an advance, bad weather will prevent air operations, and so on) and thus can completely change 
 the nature of an engagement.  

  Like most any wargame, Korsun Pocket isn't for everyone. The excitement provided here is much more 
 intellectual than visceral. But if you're a fan of deep strategy games or a history buff, or if 
 you have an interest in trying a wargame, Korsun Pocket is highly recommended. And if you  are 
  a wargamer, Korsun is an absolute must-buy.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: thelistman
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 19, 2005 4:59 pm PT
Review:  It is a real shame. Strategy games like Red Alert 2, Civilization III, and Medieval: Total War 
 will sell millions of copies and the publishers and developers will make tons of money. But a real 
 beauty like Korsun Pocket comes out and nobody even knows about it. Korsun Pocket forums across 
 the internet are empty and the game will sell like crap. Yet I have not had a more enjoyable experience 
 in war gaming since my videogame career started. 
  Korsun Pocket simulates the battle of, well, Korsun Pocket. It is not a famous battle by any means, 
 but it was an important event none-the-less. At Korsun, the Russian army surrounded the Fascist 
 invaders creating a "pocket" of German troops. This was the Red's chance to waste a load of German's 
 while the Nazi's were trying to hold out. 
  Korsun Pocket is one of the deepest wargames ever made. It is a top down, hex-based, turn-based 
 game, and one of the best yet. The tutorial, split into eight parts, can take between two to four 
 hours to complete. Don't let that scare you away though. The tutorial teaches everything you need 
 to know and really educates you on the fine points of the game. For instance, landscapes like rivers 
 and mountains give offensive or defensive bonuses. Surrounding enemies will give huge advantages, 
 and shelling the enemy with artillery will cause huge casualties among the opposition. Most of 
 this may seem typical, but it is extremely stressed in Korsun Pocket. 
  One thing about strategy war games is that they allow you infinite time to complete your mission. 
 That mission is eliminate everyone and everything belonging to the enemy. In real war, eliminating 
 everything and every enemy troop is completely absurd. Korsun Pocket realizes this and allows only 
 a limited number of turns in each campaign. There are some reinforcements. But there is no base-building 
 or unit-production. So you have to make most of what you have. You can't expect to waste the entire 
 enemy, so careful planning is needed to figure out who to attack and how to gain more ground. Some 
 of the shorter campaigns last 12-16 turns, while the full campaign is a whopping 48 turns. And 
 these turns are not minute long quickies, many times I had spent over a whole hour just finishing 
 up a single turn. 
  The complexity and realism of Korsun Pocket is striking. All troops you command were World War 
 II units. You take command of everything. All foot-troops, tanks, and supply trucks are under your 
 command. Because this game recreates one battle, so the detail and depth is massive. You have to 
 be sure to have supply trucks available, using roads and bridges as an advantage, and fortifying 
 positions by rivers and minefields to stop the opposition. You can also retreat by leaving detatchments 
 behind to slow down the advancing enemy. 
  One thing always criticised in hex wargames is the AI. In most games, the AI will attack you head 
 on without even caring about long-term effects. Korsun Pocket has changed this. The AI will pick 
 the best moves possible and attack your weak points. The enemy takes into account that you can 
 and will counter-attack. The enemy will not put itself in bad positions or in areas where he can 
 be surrounded. 
  The game also does a good job of helping you out. It may seem overwhelming to look at the map and 
 see tons of units and information. But a combat advisor will show you what enemies you can attack 
 and which are most vulnerable. It may seem cheap but this does not take away from the experience. 
 In fact, I would say it helps you to become a better player. 
  You can also play e-mail games with real life opponents. At the publisher's webpage, you can post 
 in the forums and search for opponents to play with. 
  This is a hex-based wargame, so obviously the graphics are not too hot and the sound consists of 
 about ten sound effects and no music. But if you are a serious wargamer, that is a given and should 
 not matter. If you can get pumped up about a wargame simulating one battle with several senarios, 
 then get this game. The depth and realism is shocking. A must have for a serious wargamer.
  
  Highs: Insane detail and strategy; well balanced; good AI finally 
  Lows: Ugly graphics and 
 sound
  
  92% 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
