-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Kudos
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/puzzle/kudos/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Addictive premise.
 Interesting social observations.
 Fairly realistic simulation of how to build relationships.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Like real life, it's a bit too monotonous.
 Some interface quirks.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 11, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 6.5, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 175 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Positech Games
Genre: Virtual Life
Date:     Jul 17, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Social commentary meets real-world tedium in this engaging life simulation. 

  Seeing as Kudos is being billed as a "life simulation game" where you play an alter ego in a virtual 
 world, the first temptation is to dismiss the game as yet another Sims or Second Life clone. In 
 reality, though, this Positech Games release is more of a puzzle game that challenges you to build 
 a better life through day-by-day decisions on how best to spend your time. And while it lacks the 
 alternate-world hook and 3D glitz that have made the Sims franchise such a phenomenon, the game's 
 unique social commentary on what passes for a meaningful existence these days can make it awfully 
 addictive. Everything here is a bit mundane and too depressingly close to real life at times, but 
 the gameplay is still enthralling enough to consume many hours of your spare time.  

          As in real life, some of your Kudos "friends" are flat-out jerks.     

  The concept 
 is certainly straightforward enough. You take the role of a 20-year-old just getting started in 
 life and guide him or her to 30. Just like in the real world, there are no victory conditions here. 
 Although you collect kudos points from interactions with friends as a score to indicate how you're 
 faring, the general idea here is really just to arrive at 30 happier, healthier, and wealthier 
 than you were a decade before. Or create a total train wreck. Your call. Stats track your happiness, 
 loneliness, health, stress, IQ, and all the other fun emotions and personality traits that make 
 the world go round, with the overall goal being to keep them all in tune by making smart daily 
 decisions about what to do, who to hang out with, and so on.  

  Gameplay breaks down to managing your time and money through daily turns. During the week, you 
 can cram in just one pleasurable activity between work and hitting the sack. On the weekend, you 
 get enough time away from the salt mine to enjoy two activities. So as with the real day-to-day 
 grind, there's never enough time or cash to meet all your desires. The key, of course, is to balance 
 everything and make sure that one aspect of your life doesn't take over all the others. Spend too 
 much time in a high-pressure job or taking evening courses to educate yourself so that you can 
 apply for a high-pressure job, and your happiness goes down and your stress and tiredness levels 
 skyrocket. On the other hand, you'll crank your happiness and ruin your health and fitness if you 
 kill too many nights out with friends scarfing down popcorn at the movies or pounding back the 
 brewskies in a local pub.  

  There is a pretty wide range of activities on offer in Kudos, too. All your choices are limited 
 to realistic ones, though, so the game has the tedium of real life at its heart. You can take the 
 initiative and call up friends to play tennis; hang out and watch TV; hit a rock concert; go out 
 for pizza and so forth; wait for them to call you with an invite; ditch your wingmen to clean your 
 apartment; take a soothing bath; go shopping; or just stare at the walls. All of these things have 
 to be taken care of in order to manage your stress and tiredness levels. Fail to clean your pad 
 and flies start crawling around the screen. Get too stressed and tired and friends won't have a 
 good time with you and you won't be able to concentrate during the evening courses necessary to 
 improve your employment chances or even to read a self-help book at home.  

  Luxury options are available, too, but everything costs a good chunk of change. All the good TV 
 is on cable, of course, so you've got to pony up some cash up front and then pay a subscription 
 fee. Cats and dogs lower stress and loneliness, although they come at a pretty penny and you've 
 got to keep Rover and Milo fed or they tend to die. High culture like the ballet or opera costs 
 more than a hundred bucks a ticket. You can also buy goodies like guitars, chess sets, video game 
 systems, cars, and more, but, again, you've got to make a lot of money to afford these toys and 
 tend to spend so much time working and studying that you don't have enough hours in the day to 
 really enjoy them.  

  All in all, though, it's tough to screw up your virtual life. Although the addition of a few sociopathic 
 weirdoes would have given the game some edge, friends here are almost all positive people who calm 
 you or give you confidence, so just about any social activity will boost your stats. Aside from 
 the odd snotty jerk, pretty much everyone here is an average Joe or Jane with average interests 
 like pop music, movies, pizza, culture, and the like. It's pretty easy to have a good time and 
 find activities that your pals will enjoy. The only danger is getting so involved with work or 
 night courses that you have no time to hang out with friends. You pretty much have to immerse yourself 
 in classes at first, as your dead-end waiter job doesn't provide enough cash to do much of anything 
 but watch TV and hit the odd flick. But if you neglect people, relationships suffer. If things 
 aren't soon patched up, friends disappear from your social circle. This isn't all that big a deal, 
 however, as you seem to meet new friends out of the blue all the time. Hold a steady job and get 
 out of the house regularly and your social network will consistently regenerate even if you're 
 the kind of guy who's always turning down friendly invites to the opera. Still, if you want the 
 happiness boost and kudos provided by close friends and maybe a romantic involvement with one or 
 more of them (you can even turn on same-sex relationships, if you want to swing that way) , you've 
 got to keep relationships going for the long term.  

  Yet even with its many points of interest, Kudos gets a bit humdrum after a while. Gameplay is 
 so close to everyday real life that it can get tedious. It's still very hard to stop playing, as 
 the temptation is forever there to see through one more turn and apply for that new doctor job, 
 take Kirsty out for one more romantic dinner, or even just go shopping and make sure you're well 
 stocked in dog and cat food. But this is a simulation of real life, and just as you get bored with 
 your options in the real world, you get bored with your options here. Aspects of life here are 
 sped up pretty nicely, so you can go from grungy waiter to doctor in the course of a single year 
 by attending night classes two days a week, although even then you're faced with a lot of routine 
 and personal maintenance like the need to stay in and take a bath every so often or go jogging 
 to keep up your fitness.  

          Love is in the air.     

  Visuals and sound are on the bland side, too. While the game looks and sounds very good for the 
 management-style simulation that it is, there is little eye candy aside from your avatar and interesting 
 touches like rain and snow on stormy days. The audio is better, due to a peppy musical score and 
 lots of little atmospheric pluses like the sound of a wet kiss at the conclusion of a good date, 
 a wailing guitar when you sit down to practice, and thunder and rain on wet days. These aspects 
 do contribute a lot of ambiance to your virtual lives, although most of the time you're looking 
 at the main menu screen and listening to the same old sound effects. The interface is also a bit 
 clunky. Everything is laid out in a smart, intuitive fashion, although the ease of use could be 
 improved. Most irritating is having to flip through all of your activity options instead of picking 
 them from a pull-down menu.  

  Although Kudos has some drawbacks when it comes to repetition, you can't criticize the game too 
 much because any sort of realistic life simulation has to be dull at times. And, frightening a 
 notion as it is, it's somehow more captivating to virtually watch TV and hang out in virtual bars 
 than to do these things in real life.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: zakzango
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 21, 2009 3:31 am PT
Review:  I want to start this review by congratulating the maker of this game. Well done you've probably 
 made as much money as those idiots that keep re-releasing tetris with different themes like pirates 
 and aliens but you seem to have put in less work. Kudos is a 'game' that 'simulates' life supposedly, 
 I guess it does do a decent job at simulating the pointless grind of life BUT why do i want to 
 simulate going to work and playing my pc day in and day out when I spend every day going to work 
 and playing the pc (I actually don't go to work but I don't want to simulate that either) .
  
  But kudos really strikes me as a total rip off of the Sims minus all the little details like 
 FUN! I mean what I like about the Sims is that I can watch them carry out their lives and oggle 
 as they prepare mac 'n' cheese. But in Kudos you don't get to cackle with glee as your Sim sets 
 their house on fire for the 50th time! No you don't you little person that wants mental stimulation 
 the creator of kudos would hand you a pot of bubble mix and tell you to play on the m25! Instead 
 of hilarious antics of a person created by you around a house created by you! You get to sit in 
 a small flat in Surrey that you never actually see.
  
  The 'game' window is one of three pictures of your avatar surrounded by his skills and needs and 
 items and friends and pets, BUT pets count as objects which I would've criticized if they had any 
 kind of presence in the game apart from barking or chirping or dyeing or draining your money like 
 a little capitalist parasite (or a child) . At the end of each day when you have gone to work you 
 have a choice of one (YES ONE) activity for example do I want to play my pc (which coincidently 
 is one of those casual game's that I hate) or watch a film. And you can only do ONE and ONE only 
 because god forbid you'll actually emulate human behavior in any way! 
  
  This glaring floor in the design really starts to drive you insane when you have a high stress 
 job and you have to de-stress if you want to go to that class that will get you a promotion but 
 if you don't go shopping for dog food Fido will die, its really annoying then when you realised 
 that you haven't seen any of you friend's in a while and they all left you because your a career 
 obsessed stress addled looser that want to go and see a show but they don't like shows so they'll 
 say no because they aren't friends they are two-faced hangoners that want to go to a very expensive 
 Chinese restaurant only when YOU are paying and if you don't like it then you can live without 
 friend's cant you!? You lonely stress crazed little man!
  
  So with the list of things going wrong steadily growing longer its time to move on the the next 
 one! When you start the game you have a good physique but since your now doing so many de-stressing 
 activities (e. g. drinking and napping) you don't have time for the gym so you stop going and steadily 
 gain weight isn't life grand! And to make it even better the game has a wonderful trick up its 
 sleeve for you little man its decided that now your going to have your house broken into and for 
 some obscure but probably idiotic reason you've now lost you job and your sitting in you squalid, 
 bare little apartment with Fido yapping at you inssesently until in your drunken you throw him 
 out of your house. Well thats what i'd like to do but you cant in this stupid little game so I 
 just stopped feeding him instead.
  
  So the game ends with your character a 38 year old man-whale with no friends and your dog has died, 
 you have no stuff and your poor, and theirs me sitting at my computer foaming at the mouth and shouting 
 a massive string of abuse at the screen until I do the equivalent of game suicide by hitting the 
 quit button and refusing to save. But I guess it emulates life very well a brilliant high when 
 your on top of the world but then you fall the the slippery slope into the sea of faeces on the 
 other side where you will not emerge from! Unless you become pope.
  
  The thing is though with this game is I play games to escape reality not experience it in 2d mediocrity. 
 The only kind of person I would recommend play this game are fat balding men BUT only for about 
 5 minutes because its going to go horribly wrong and you don't want to be around when that happens.
 
  
  A review half-assedly written by Zak Z
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nhut091293
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 1:49 am PT
Review:  This is better than The Sims (in the simple way) . It easy to play but hard to catch everything.
 
  You play as a no-one men with a poor job, and you objective is to improve his life.
  You have many things to do in this game, stay at home, watch TV, do sodoku, shopping and buy everything 
 s you need for your life.
  Uh Uh, it is not easy to control your life. You must balanced your men with many tasks like Stamina, IQ,..... 
 by many activities like read a book, go jogging,....
  You can make new friend, hang out with them, be in love with some one (unfortunately, there is no marrige 
 here) .
  
  After you can be someone in life, there will be more problems. Thief sneak into your house and stole 
 everything. Trouble on the way to job.....
  
  It is life, more than The SIMs, more than any game i've ever had.
  
  Enjoy Kudos and you see 
 the way you live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: forlani93
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 4:01 am PT
Review:  What a beautiful game! You have to manage the life of one person... it's incredible!! There are so 
 many things to do!! Different work... Different friend... Large assortiment of item... you can't become 
 bored! It's better if not buyed... there are some free full version in eMule... if i have to say, this 
 game is understimate! It's SO MUCH BETTER! I think it need more player, it's so gooood!
  There is also Kudos Rock Legend but... i tried it... it's better the first Kudos.
  Other game similar 
 to Kudos are: Series of Princess Maker (the 2 it's in english and i think that princess maker it's 
 the besti sim game ever) , Cute knigh (a stupid, awful imitation of princess maker, DON'T BUY IT)
  Bye!
  Mio 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffrok
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 12, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Well at first the game about as boring as mowing my lawn... however keep playing awhile, and you'll 
 likely find it does grow on you. Here's a little tip: In the beginning, concentrate on taking classes, 
 complete enough to get a decent job and get some decent income, give up on partying and happiness 
 with your buds, and just work hard at getting a good career. (just as in real life aye?) Afterward 
 there will be more time for making friends, buying stuff, and getting the girls! Also a cheat tip 
 for the impatient: You can edit the file called config. tx t in the games /data folder, and change 
 the amount of startup money, which takes away much of the early burden... much like having a rich 
 uncle! :o) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anaxandron
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 9, 2007 10:02 pm PT
Review:  The best way to describe Kudos is probably to say that it is Sims without the graphic interface 
 that allows you to see the world in real time. Instead, you will be presented with a more detailed 
 view of your character's stats and relationships. It is very simplistic and a bit nostalgic to 
 those of us who experienced the old DOS games of this genre, like Princess Maker 2, which, by the 
 way, is still my favourite sim game of all time.
  
  What I like about budget games like Kudos is that you start playing them without really expecting 
 much, so, when you get your hands on a game that is actually pretty good, it feels really nice, 
 like you are in some way contributing to the efforts of the underdogs. Regardless of such feelings, 
 it is necessary to say that Kudos is an interesting game. It does not pack dazzling graphics, nor 
 any great varieties of gaming modes, but it is very honest in what it brings to you and focuses 
 on that rather successfully.
  
  You will start off picking one of about a dozen available default models to call your own. Then, 
 tinkering with your initial stats will be your next task before truly beginning your life at the 
 age of twenty and guiding your virtual self through the following ten years of your life. You will 
 play each and every day of those years, and, while that sounds a bit too much, it took me about 
 six hours to finish the game from scratch. That is because your daily activities are decided and 
 performed with only a couple clicks of your mouse, which makes most days pass by rather quickly 
 if you are already sure of what you want to do.
  
  The options you will be able to choose from are basically studying, socializing and spending time 
 on your own. The latter is quite useful to raise stats, decrease stress and tiredness, as well 
 as make sure that you and your house are proper enough, in order to avoid getting sick.
  
  Socializing, on the other hand, is probably the most difficult part of the game, since your friends 
 have various and usually different interests and it takes a bit of work to find the activity that 
 best suits them, so that you all have a good time. You will earn or lose kudos depending on how 
 successful the social event you planned out was. Your kudos is what dictates how cool you are and 
 that is particularly important when trying to find an acting job, for example, and also for having 
 more friends.
  
  Eventually, you will be able to even find some romance for yourself and, although it will be comprised 
 of nothing more than the same social events followed by some smooching sounds, it should not be 
 overlooked at all, because your character's happiness seems to be greatly influenced by having 
 someone to call their own.
  
  Lastly, studying will allow you to learn skills, which vary a lot, but are mainly requirements 
 for better jobs. You should definitely try to get yourself a sensible amount of those, even if 
 you plan to be a party animal, since throwing parties and going out costs a lot of money. Hence, 
 getting yourself a nice job is pretty much a necessity.
  
  The game's main challenge seems to be balancing your social and financial activities in order to 
 get kudos and make your character happy through expensive social activities. However, that is really 
 just one way of seeing it, since you cannot lose or win in this game. In the end, you will just 
 be presented with some general view of the life you led, with all a good deal of statistics and 
 whatnot. I must confess that this ending was a bit frustrating to me. I knew right from the start 
 that there would not be anything grand in the end, but it was just one screen with a couple of 
 statistics and that was a definite turn off. I believe they could have at least expanded the amount 
 of facts about your life in the end, so that you would feel that you had accomplished something. 
 For example, I really had no interest in knowing the amount of clicking I had done, but I would 
 have liked to know how my character lived the rest of his life based on what I had him do during 
 those ten years, maybe in a slide show of sorts, with a couple of pictures of him through the decades 
 until his death. That would have been enough for me at least.
  
  If you do not mind the poor ending, I would highly recommend that you try this game out at least. 
 Its intuitive controls, pleasant music and clean graphics make it appealing enough and, once you 
 get started, it certainly grows on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamercat
Rating: 7
Date: May 24, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Kudos is an overall good game... just not a great game. It is like the Sims but without actually 
 seeing and moving your character around in action. Instead you make point and click choices after 
 reading your options. You basically go through each day of the week making one or two choices a 
 day. The choices you make affect your health, happiness, social life etc...
  
  The lack of content comes into play when you realize you have a limited amount of choices and tend 
 to get the same reactions from your social encounters.
  
  Somehow it still seems to pull out an addictive side and you keep playing.
  
  At least the 
 starting price of $19.99 is suitable to the content and enjoyment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonah98
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 31, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  Kudos is a most excellent life simulation game from Positech Studios, the genius behind Democracy. 
 Unlike the Sims (or the Sims 2) , Kudos takes a most awesome new angle on the simulating of lives 
 in a video game, and all the truly mundane and boring aspects, like showering, are left out. Instead 
 you do the important stuff, living the life of a wash-out from Slough for ten whole years, with 
 nearly everything that entails.
  
  So you make, and lose, friends. You take evening courses, get promoted, buy and subsequently neglect 
 a range of pets. Read books and even play on your very own games console. I like to pretend it's 
 a PS2, the thought of my virtual avatar enslaved to an Xbox doesn't really appeal.
  
  Kudos is visually un-stimulating. This is not a bad thing. After ten hours of playing Black and 
 dying over and over and over again in its beautifully rendered war torn environments, the graphical 
 plainness of Kudos is a God send. There are some nice little touches; the screen gets dirty when 
 your house needs cleaning and the lines connecting you and your friends glow brighter the better 
 your relationship. More is promised.
  
  Yes, more is promised. Unlike other popular virtual life games, once you've bought Kudos, you've 
 bought it. Every future new attachment, addition, feature, patch, consumer consumable - everything 
 is free and easy to download. As with Democracy, there is already a good modding base which can 
 only expand. Don't you wish more games were like this? Don't you? Yes you do.
  
  So, dudes, buy Kudos. If anything, it's value for money - a game continually expanding through 
 player mods and additions by the developer, for no extra charge. Although I'm the only person that's 
 ever going to read this, and I've already bought Kudos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ccrow21
Rating: 6.4
Date: Aug 7, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  The game Kudos isn't very solid. It is kind of a run off of the Sims, but it's not better than 
 the Sims. That's probably why not many people are playing this. The Sims are far better than this. 
 
  
  The Gameplay is rather boring. There is a total lack of interactivity with the game. All you do 
 is point and click. Kind of boring.
  
  The Graphics aren't around enough to be called graphics. The game usually stays around one screen 
 the entire time. The only part that's good enough for the name, "graphics," is the character models. 
 And you don't even see those too often.
  
  The sound system is really rather basic and nothing new.
  
  The value of this game isn't very 
 well. Considering The Sims have been around way longer and are way better. Though Kudos does do 
 well on some details, it just doesn't hold a candle to any Sims game. Not even the first one.
 
  
  Personally, I kind of like this game, but it gets kind of boring real quick. That's why the demo 
 is short, so you don't have enough time to realize how boring it is. The game honostly feels more 
 like work to play. But it has a charm about it that makes it okay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dylanier
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 22, 2006 3:13 am PT
Review:  This game is so refreshing it's way better than The Sims games. I really enjoy this game it had 
 so many options, It ran through every aspect of life you can choose between going to get a drink 
 or going to a rock concert. Very Fun
  
  Gets kind of repetitive after awhile, but not to the point where you won't want to play it anymore.
 
  
  Though finding a job and going to night school and doing all that can really pay off when you can 
 spend your cash on an expensive car or on spend your excess time at the bar drinking with your 
 pals
  
  -Dylan
  
  P. S. Get this game A. S. A. P.
  
  =)
  
  No Good Soundtrack, Good Sound Effects Though! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
