-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: KumaWar
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/kumawar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 20, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.1
Critic Score: 5.4, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 4.4, 131 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Kuma Reality Games
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date:     Jul 16, 2004
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The presentation is dated and drab, and the vaguely realistic military trappings can't disguise 
 what is at heart a weak, simplistic shooter. 

  Kuma\War is built around an interesting, if potentially exploitive, idea: offer a shooter based 
 on current military actions in Iraq and Afghanistan and then update it over the Internet with new 
 missions inspired by the latest battles. Plenty of other shooters offer relatively realistic looks 
 at modern combat, but Kuma\War is unique in this focus on real, recent battles. Sadly, the actual 
 gameplay is so bad that the high concept becomes almost irrelevant.  

          This guy gets a little too enthusiastic for the subject matter.     

  Kuma\War is available 
 only via download from the game's official Web site, which means you better set aside some time 
 if you want to try it; the main client alone weighs in at over 200MB. After that lengthy download, 
 you have to sit through a tediously long auto-update process and then download each of the missions 
 you want. You can play for free for a week, though you have to provide contact and credit card 
 information before you do so. If you like the game, you can then pay a monthly subscription to 
 keep playing and downloading new missions as they're released.  

  On paper, Kuma\War has some of the essentials for a good military shooter. You control a fire team 
 of four soldiers armed with real-world weapons. You can play from a first- or third-person view 
 and switch between directly controlling any of the soldiers at any time to issuing simple orders, 
 like "hold fire" or "fire at will" to your team. Via a Web-based front end, you can also follow 
 links to mainstream media reports, images, and videos relating to the real-world missions that 
 have inspired the game's action. You can also download Kuma's own CNN-style broadcasts for each 
 mission. These broadcasts mix real-world footage with in-game images and offer background information, 
 expert analysis, and tips relating to the game's virtual versions of the battles.  

  That all sounds cool until you find that the analysis usually lacks the sort of nitty-gritty detail 
 that military buffs might like, and the gameplay tips are comically obvious: "Keep your head down 
 or it might get blown off." More significantly, Kuma\War's gameplay is sorely lacking and it doesn't 
 succeed at any level. The presentation is dated and drab, and the vaguely realistic military trappings 
 can't disguise what is at heart a weak, simplistic shooter. Those expecting a realistic tactical 
 simulation will be sorely disappointed. For that matter, those expecting a thrilling run-and-gun 
 action game will be disappointed, too. Enemies appear in the same places every time you play a 
 mission, and they will pretty much just stand around and do nothing until you're right in their 
 faces. Also, the enemies will often ignore buddies dying right next to them. Combat feels more 
 like plinking tin cans with a BB gun than blasting wily enemies with high-powered military weapons. 

  On top of that, you can't climb many obstacles and you can't lean, which results in lots of long 
 marches around low walls and unnecessary deaths as you turn corners. Combat mostly boils down to 
 using your sniper to blast bad guys before they can kill your other three men. Your inept squadmates 
 often fail to return fire effectively -- or at all -- and frequently get lost or caught on the scenery. 
 Your squadmates will also block you from moving down stairs or through narrow passages -- sometimes 
 right as you're taking fire. When you have to rescue hostages, the liberated captives will usually 
 run off on their own in some crazy direction, only to get gunned down. You can play Kuma\War online, 
 but it's a ghost town out there; we could never find any active servers to play on after several 
 days of trying.  

  Kuma\War's missions are mostly based on real engagements in the current Iraq and Afghanistan conflicts, 
 such as the attack on Saddam Hussein's sons and a fight against anti-Coalition insurgents in Sadr 
 city. For a bit of desperately needed variety, a couple of missions look back to the Iranian hostage 
 crisis of 1980. Despite such nods to realism, Kuma\War gives you the comical impression that these 
 battles were each fought by a single four-man (or smaller) fire team. You don't coordinate with 
 other units or even with the rest of your seemingly nonexistent squad, so there's no sense that 
 you're part of any real military operation. Sometimes you will see fellow troops, but they're just 
 distant window dressing. It's frustrating, and frankly pathetic, to see a line of Humvees and troops 
 standing there and doing nothing as your four men are being gunned down by snipers who've been 
 left to casually stand around on nearby rooftops.  

  Mission goals can be a bit confusing insofar as the in-game map is concerned -- it's so poor that 
 it's worthless. Then again, the goals are tediously simple: just keep aimlessly walking around 
 and killing the guys with headdresses and AK-47s until they're all dead. That repetitiveness gets 
 numbingly boring fast. For a little diversity, you'll get to control vehicles, like an M1 tank, 
 from time to time. Actually, that's not quite correct since the M1's "controls" are outrageously 
 clumsy and unresponsive, and the tank easily gets caught on everything from sidewalks to small 
 signs to little piles of dirt.  

  On foot, you'll get to fight with sniper rifles, M4 carbines, M16A2 assault rifles, and other real-world 
 weapons. Outside of the sniper rifle, many of these are woefully inaccurate, and overall they feel 
 more like toys than real weapons. Another departure from reality (but a necessary one, given some 
 of the crackpot enemy snipers lining the rooftops and mountainsides) is the ability to magically 
 heal yourself instantly with health kits. Instead of one-shot-one-kill, Kuma\War is one-shot-one-kill-kinda-sorta. 

           Welcome back to 1998. Lame graphics are the order of the day.     

  Kuma\War's presentation is as problematic as its gameplay. One of the video hosts sounds rather 
 too enthusiastic for the subject matter, treating recent real-life combat almost as if it were, 
 well, a video game. The in-game graphics are marred by bland textures (building interiors and tanks 
 look downright awful) , clunky animation, major clipping problems, and boring weapon/explosion effects. 
 Sound effects don't give the weapons any sense of power, and the music volume levels can change 
 drastically for no apparent reason. The music is utterly forgettable, anyway.  

  Between all the tedious downloads, sorry gameplay, and weak audio and visuals, Kuma\War simply 
 can't compete. Games like Rainbow Six 3: Raven Shield, Joint Operations, and America's Army (produced 
 by the US Army, no less) offer vastly more sophisticated, realistic, or flat-out entertaining looks 
 at modern tactical combat and weaponry. Kuma\War has an interesting idea at its core, but with 
 such weak execution, it really doesn't matter.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: lingojac
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 2:50 am PT
Review:  The premise sounds very interesting-playing out the battles of the ongoing Iraq War that you probably 
 saw on the news over the past few years.
  
  But for lack of a better wording, 
  
  this game just plain sucks.
  
  The AI is absolutely brainless, both allies and enemies. The 
 enemies almost always do nothing but stand and shoot, and wait for their turn to be gunned down 
 by you.
  
  Also, don't be fooled: there's absolutely no realism in this game. In such a complex and technical 
 war as the War in Iraq, you're not doing much more in this game than walking around and gunning 
 insurgents down. Don't be duped by mission descriptions that say things like 'search house to house 
 for weapons and confiscate them'; you're just going to be shooting enemy after enemy, as if you're 
 Jack Bauer rather than an American soldier. There are also ridiculous situations, like when enemies 
 continuously spawn from the same area (indoors, mind you) , making it impossible to secure a structure 
 because there's just no stop to the flow of enemies.
  
  The graphics are bland, and it's a disappointment that the developers had such a great engine (Valve's 
 Source engine, which was used in Half-Life 2) and then totally ignored the potential awesomeness 
 that could have been created. Instead, levels are just plain boring to walk around in.
  
  This game doesn't have what makes shooting games fun. Multiplayer is a been there, done that affair, 
 blasting enemies in single player just isn't as satisfying as it should be, and there overall is 
 no incentive to delve into the game's 75+ missions.
  
  Yes the game has over 75 missions, which you have to download individually. Do NOT expect to play 
 every single one; not very many people have the patience to wait a few minutes before every single 
 mission starts.
  
  The developers had good intentions, and a great idea of taking real life battles in Iraq and creating 
 a game out of them. There are even times during gameplay where the intensity actually does climb 
 a bit. The developers just didn't seem to try that hard to give you, the player, an overall great 
 gaming experience.
  
  I can't help but put it simple: Kuma/War isn't that fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex_o
Rating: 1.6
Date: Jul 23, 2007 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Downloading this game really took a long time. At first I thoguht I might as well give it a try 
 becuase the client download size was tiny compared to other online shooters. But you do have to 
 download each and every single map by yourself. Sometimes the map itself takes longer than the 
 client download, well, all of them do. Also the commercials for DinoHunter were comical at the 
 first time you watch it, but after 30 times, it gets EXTREMELY annoying to listen to an austrailian 
 accented man talk for 20 mins.
  
  Graphics are despicable in this game. The makers of KumaWar said that this game is the Most realistic 
 war game is absolute bull. I would give them a positive for recreating war events around the world, 
 but thats only thing realistic about this game.
  
  Sound, one word: Horrible
  
  Gameplay, when I first started this game I thought it was fun. I did notice a few minor problems 
 right away but it never irritated me until about 15 minutes later. One of the problems is that 
 if the team is following you they will constantly stop because they need help going over a 2 inch 
 rock wall. You will then have to switch to all 4 characters and help them go across the 2 inch 
 wall. I felt like I was baby sitting these guys. Also, they don't usually shoot at people unless 
 theyre really close, as in, they cannot shoot at snipers. Another thing that bothered me is that 
 enemy snipers will spot you almost immediately after you see them. So your best option to pass 
 a mission is with a sniper so you take out other enemy snipers. One last problem I found about 
 this game was that there was always ONLY one way to the mission objective. You cannot take shortcuts, 
 because you are constantly blocked by 4 feet walls with army soldiers on the other side who just 
 stand there as a decoration. I shot one in the head once, not suprisingly nothing happened. Overall, 
 I'm happy that the game uninstalled itself after a week. I'm glad it did it before I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AMarrufo
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 14, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing for about six months. It's a fun little free online game. I am in a clan which 
 makes it a whole lot better. I really enjoy this game and always await the new real life missions 
 as they happen. There are some things that need worked on, but in time I reall believe this game 
 will be a popular online game for all. There are over 80 maps on it, and a lot of great sitiuations 
 are setup. And now with the History channel backing it, I believe the future looks great for all 
 kuma players. There are some issues with th Graphics, but then I really don't care for them. The 
 Sound is great when it comes to sound effects and the music is pretty cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lav-25
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 16, 2006 4:53 am PT
Review:  this game may look bad but if you play it long enough yuoll like it ALOT ou can just pop guys one 
 after the other BOOM BOOM BOOM BOOM BOMM BOOOOOM BOOOOOOOM and you neaver run out of ammo a bit 
 unrealistic yes but so dam NOT ANOYING, i like shooting the RPG u can just shoot any thing with 
 it trust me these ppl who give a low review DONT UNDERSTAND THE GAME you have to play it alot and 
 dont think its unrealistic trust me its a dam good game after u play it after a couple of times!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! TRUST ME GET THE GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ketaros
Rating: 5.7
Date: May 25, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Well,
  
  Soon I got my hands downloading Kuma I must say I was expecting something more challenging, indeed 
 was a bit of challenge on the first missions where we didnt got all functions and tactics ideas...
 
  But after around 10 missions the things started to get boring... and boring... them we download 
 the next mission, and stills boring...
  
  Why?
  
  For me the main is because the difficult level madness... belive or not the mission ONE is the 
 hardest missions of the first 10 missions... when I got this feeling, I wonder if that could be 
 becuase on the mission 1 I was just learning, them I went back to play mission 1, and yes, it is 
 hard... harder them the mission 34 that I was playing by the time, just to get the picture....
 
  
  So, if the challenge doesnt raises, just remains the same, you realy lose some interest... I did.
 
  
  Funny it can seems, at the end I was more enjoying to watch the mission videos them playing them... 
 the videos are VERY cool... and at the end thats the only thing that is cool there at the end...
 
  
  Being free, I must say that people shuould try if they have nothing else to do in a thursday afternoon, 
 It is very fun at the begging.
  
  Best regards
  
  ket 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Payasoplas
Rating: 5.7
Date: Nov 12, 2005 1:41 pm PT
Review:  KUMA\War is very interesting, missions are based on military operations of the US army and marines 
 in places like Iraq, Afghanistan and even Vietnam battles, this missions are based on soldiers' 
 testimonials, news, etc. And are released for download short time after they happen, this a new 
 kind of game, and a really revolutionary idea, it has some historical importance.
  
  In paper this idea sounds good, but the game has too many problems the first of all is the installation 
 once you download it the game installs iteself, if run the game it searches for updates, once you 
 are "ready" to play, you can choose to download a mission, but the a message apears to tell you 
 that you need to install the full version of the game, if you choose to do so (you have to if you 
 want to play) , the game uninstalls and the you have to re download it again, after that the game 
 autoupdates again and then you can download the missions, but if you want to see videos you have 
 to download them, it could be easier if you could download all missions and videos in a single 
 package, by the way the videos are very hilarious.
  
  The graphics look old , the minimal system requirements are:
  
  System: 1 GHz Pentium III or 
 equivalent
  RAM: 256 MB
  Video Memory: 64 MB
  Hard Drive Space: 750 MB 
  
  But the game obviously uses the same engine of Deadly Dozen, and its gameplay and interface are 
 based on this game, wich is good but is a budget tactical WWII shooter released in 2001 wich minimal 
 system requirements are: 
  
  System: PII 300 or equivalent
  RAM: 64 MB
  Video Memory: 8 MB
  Hard Drive Space: 500 MB 
  
  The only thing Kuma did was changing scenarios 
 and a little improvements to character, weapons and some vehicle models, in other words KUMA\War 
 is a mod for Deadly Dozen but set in modern era with some extra options and multiplayer support, 
 the 2001 grapahics could passable but you'll need almost a NASA super computer to run the game.
 
  
  The gameplay is the same as Deadly Dozen wich is good but the low frame rate in some sections doesn't 
 allow you to enjoy the game.
  
  The best part of the game is its value, because it's free and allows you to play more than 60 long 
 hard and sometimes great missions, but the poor gameplay and the ridiculous system requirements 
 make the game a very mediocre option, the idea behind this game is very good, but the quality of 
 the final product is bad, maybe in some later versions or in the hands of toher developer this 
 idea could be well developed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandomTask221
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 12, 2005 7:51 pm PT
Review:  KumaWar claims to be the most "realistic" war game ever made, which right off the bat... isn't true. 
 KumaWar puts you in the shoes of a United States soldier in real-life situations in war, which 
 is a cool idea on paper but with horrid gameplay and weak graphics, it plain out sucks. I'm not 
 going to go into deep detail about the gameplay and everything else because simply it doesn't matter, 
 its THAT bad and even being free doesn't justify the horrible nature of this game. So, don't waste 
 you time or hard drive space on this real-life suckage of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voodooware
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jul 15, 2004 7:13 am PT
Review:  I tried this game out of curiosity, and I said to a friend right afterwards "Yo, this game would 
 be awesome if it was the first video game I've ever played." The fact is, you get used to things, 
 like your keyboard configuration (the standard one for first person shooters) , and certain features 
 you just take for granted that are going to be in a military themed shooter.
  
  The keyboard configuration is a tiny bit off, but off just enough to make you look like you have 
 no idea what you're doing. I mean, WASD are the standards, but instead of "R" being reload, space 
 is reload? I know it's easily configured, but... isn't that a given? (Funny I mention this, my 
 favorite game right now is Rainbow Six 3, and I'm not one for configuring games, I usually stick 
 to the recommended settings... but in that game reload is "Z".) Some other keys were different 
 too. 
  
  Also, the features that you expect to be in a modern game, let alone a modern military themed game, 
 are stuff like being able to lean around corners, look down the iron sights, and rag doll effect. 
 These totally ruin the gameplay for me. One of my squad-mates died on a staircase and I had a quick 
 glance in and was like "no, i didn't just see what i thought i saw?!" i did... his feet were on 
 the 5th stair, and his body was laying completely parallel with the floor, about 4 feet above the 
 floor. I was like "This is 2004 for Pete's Sake!"
  
  Anyway, what this game does have going for it is the new missions every week. However, the mediocre 
 gameplay is the stop factor. I'd imagine war is a bit more tactical.
  
  One whacky thing I noticed with the graphics is when you run straight, the animation is of you 
 running straight... fine. When you strafe, left or right, the animation is of you straffing... 
 good stuff. However, when you run forward and to the right at the same time, you'd expect some 
 other animation that realistically portrays what it takes to run "diagonal" with respect to where 
 you are facing. This was not the case. It reused the "run straight" animation.
  
  Anyway, I'm a veteran gamer. This game is free for 7 days, so you might as well just try it out 
 for yourself. I will cancel my subscription for now. No use paying for something I won't play until 
 they fix it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: no1alboogie
Rating: 2.2
Date: Jul 8, 2004 11:37 pm PT
Review:  Save you're money, You've been warned.
  The only thing this game has going for it are the newsreals. They're pretty interesting and informative, but 
 other than that, it's a waste. I had high hopes for it when the beta was out, but they never fixed 
 any of the bugs, at least not any that I noticed The gameplay was almost O. K., but was far from 
 "good". The A. I.
  had very little to desire, the enemy's and the squad, you'd be better off running through Iraq 
 by yourself.
  I tried to stick with it for a bit hoping they'd "fix it", but ran intolog-in" problems. I went 
 for thier technical support and got "NOTHING". A couple on-line people tried to help, I'll give 
 them that, but when they decided there was nothing they could do for me they told me that the main 
 people at Kuma-War would get in touch with me and help me out. They e-mailed me and said they'd 
 refund my money, that was it. No help, no support, nothing, it was just 
  "see ya". So in my book "#@*#em". You can play countless numbers of free demos in place of thier 
 few little missions a month that cost $9.99, and for the $120.00 bucks you'd be saving a year, 
 think about how many GOOD games you could get. Bottem line, stay away, save your money. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
