-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Land of the Dead: Road to Fiddler's Green
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/landofthedeadroadtofiddlersgreen/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Offers online multiplayer.
 Graphics aren't quite as horrible as they were on the Xbox.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Artificial intelligence that somehow manages to make the game's zombies look stupid in comparison to <i>other zombies</i>.
 Flat, listless combat.
 Horribly glitchy hit detection and physics.
 Graphics are still pretty awful.
 Some of the worst in-game music in the history of PC gaming.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 10, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2.1
Critic Score: 4.7, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 889 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Groove Games
Developer: Brainbox Games
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     Oct 20, 2005
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This game fails to deliver even the most garden-variety zombie-killing thrills, due to its inept 
 combat, bad visuals, and cripplingly stupid artificial intelligence. 

  There is an almost pseudo-brilliance to the sheer awfulness of Land of the Dead: Road to Fiddler's 
 Green. Loosely based within the same universe as zombie pioneer George Romero's  Land of the Dead 
  film from earlier this year, Road to Fiddler's Green isn't content on being another completely 
 unplayable movie-to-game translation. It's almost as though the developers wanted to capture the 
 essence of the zombie through each and every aspect of the game. In many ways, it feels like it 
 was once a regular, workaday, full-featured first-person shooter that was horribly murdered by 
 zombies and then resurrected into a shambled, decrepit, undead version of its former self. Every 
 component of this game is slow to react, dumb as a doornail, and irreparably broken. It shuffles 
 along at a sluggish, depressing pace while pieces of it literally fall apart at the seams. And 
 the only thing going through its figurative mind is the unquenchable instinct to attack and feed 
 on your free time and money. This game is either one of the most avant-garde pieces of gaming artistry 
 to ever find its way to the retail market, or one of the worst PC games you'll ever play -- though, 
 it's probably the latter.  

           The ethos of zombie culture dictates that zombies should roll deep and violently attack 
 and eat living people with reckless abandon...     

  The protagonist of this hapless zombie tale is Jack, a regular country bumpkin thrust into the 
 role of zombie vanquisher extraordinaire when a slightly ripe-looking stranger happens upon his 
 doorstep. When this stranger turns out to be a brain-hungry zombie, Jack is sent fleeing around 
 his property, looking for guns, ammunition, and, of all things, his keys. Clearly panic-stricken, 
 Jack finds himself neck-deep in zombie action, with mildly threatening corpses flocking onto his 
 meager farm. He takes off to a neighbor's property, by way of a completely insane haystack maze 
 and a badly textured cornfield, only to find -- yes, you guessed it -- more zombies! Perhaps you can 
 see where all this is going. Wondering where the film tie-in comes into play? Well, you do eventually 
 find yourself in the guarded city of the scant few living humans remaining on the planet, which 
 is featured prominently in the movie. But before you can get there, you'll have to travel through 
 a slew of horrendous-looking environments, navigate terrible level designs, and shoot a never-ending 
 army of the  stupidest  zombies you will ever encounter.  

  Stupid zombies? How is that even possible? Zombies are, after all, lumbering dimwits by nature, 
 driven purely by the instinct to feed and with no real form of intelligence. However, the whole 
 point of the  Land of the Dead  movie is that the zombies are slowly evolving into a more organized 
 society of the undead. They're supposed to be  smart  zombies. But let's forget that fact for the 
 moment and try to understand that there are rules that govern zombie fiction at large. In about 
 every form of zombie anything you'll ever see, the creatures are largely aggressive toward any 
 creature with living flesh, and they tend to travel in overwhelming packs. Save for very rare instances, 
 you will see no such behavior in this game. Oh sure, they'll attack, but it's an absolute rarity 
 to find yourself in a situation where you're overmatched. The zombies have one or two really lame 
 attacks, which can be easily avoided if you're not completely surrounded. And even when you are, 
 all you need to do is run and find a piece of the scenery that the zombies aren't smart enough 
 to circumvent -- you know, like an open doorway or a pile of garbage that sits maybe two or three 
 feet high. And this is all assuming the zombies even come after you in the first place. Half the 
 time, they're content to stand completely still, dumbfounded as you pick them off from silly distances. 

  To make matters worse, the game completely destroys any measure of satisfaction you might get from 
 offing these bloodthirsty creatures by making the combat a complete and utter bore. The game tries 
 to create some measure of tension by severely limiting the amount of ammunition you can pick up, 
 leaving you to fight off the zombies with shovels, golf clubs, baseball bats, and fire axes. Yet 
 somehow, the action of slamming a blunt object into a zombie's brittle body is screwed up. There 
 are both weak and strong melee attacks, but the weak attacks are completely useless. You can sit 
 there whacking away at a zombie and half the time it won't even react to the shots it has taken, 
 leaving you completely vulnerable.  

          Apparently someone forgot to clue in the developer of Land of the Dead to these key facts. 
     

  So, you're stuck using strong attacks at all times. The trouble is, these strong attacks look completely 
 stupid. When you're using a shovel, you look like you're giving the zombie a firm poke -- a fact 
 made even more hilarious by the overexaggerated animation of a zombie flying backward from the 
 attack. Every time you use a hammer, you see Jack flip it around to the claw side to make his strong 
 swipe. For the love of god, why can't he just  leave  the hammer on its claw side? And somehow, 
 someway, the act of chopping hard at a zombie with an axe is done so flatly, so devoid of satisfaction, 
 that it's barely even worth using the weapon, given how long it takes to wind up for the hit.  
 

  The game's gunplay is even worse. There's a decent variety of weapons, but there is no predictability 
 to their effectiveness. The game purports to use some manner of location-specific damage model, 
 but it's also completely broken. Shoot a zombie in the chest, and his head will magically explode. 
 Shoot another one in the chest, and it will react like it just took a shot to the shin. Shoot another's 
 arm off, and it won't even flinch. Sometimes you have to shoot a zombie seven times in the head 
 to bring it down. Other times, two shots to the legs will kill it. There's no rhyme or reason to 
 any of it.     

  Adding further insult to injury, Land of the Dead constantly sabotages itself with predictable 
 and insipid level designs. The game constantly tries to force a reaction out of you by having zombies 
 appear out of nowhere. But that's the problem... they literally appear out of nowhere. They'll either 
 blink in and out of thin air, or they'll drop in from some magical point in the ceiling. And even 
 when you don't see them appear from some magically distant dimension, the game waves a big, bright 
 flag to let you know zombies are coming around the corner by hitching up the frame rate for up 
 to a full second every single time enemies are being loaded into the level. Talk about defeating 
 the tension...  

          It's just not scary. It's not scary like it should be, Jack.     

  Believe it or not, 
 Land of the Dead offers a full multiplayer mode for online play. But what's even harder to believe 
 is that it's as awful as the single-player experience. You have deathmatch and co-op modes available, 
 and both are lousy for different reasons. The deathmatches take place in zombie-infested levels, 
 so you're fighting your opponents and zombies at the same time. OK, that sounds all well and good, 
 except that the maps all completely suck, and lag frequently gets in the way of your ability to 
 properly shoot anybody or anything. On servers that seemed to have entirely decent ping times, 
 it would sometimes take up to five full seconds for a shotgun blast to kill a zombie or an opponent. 
 The co-op missions we played seemed to suffer from this the most. Zombies would dart around the 
 level in indecipherable patterns and sometimes even spawn right on top of us, making it impossible 
 to even get a shot off before we were eaten alive. Fun? Hardly.  

  On the Xbox, Land of the Dead was one of the worst-looking games in that system's history. On the 
 PC, the bump in resolution does improve matters, if not by a wide margin. Specifically, the zombies 
 tend to look better up close than they did on consoles -- though still not good, exactly. The main 
 difference is that they look gorier, because the blood-and-guts effects and decrepit skin textures 
 look a bit more proper. Lighting is also a bit better in this version, with some soft glow effects 
 that you could almost call pretty to look at. Most everything else in the game, however, looks 
 about as awful as it did on the Xbox. The environments are still bland and overly angular, the 
 textures are blurry, and the severely damaged rag-doll physics that turned the Xbox version into 
 a practical work of comedy are as broken here. Zombies will flop to the ground in an ultraexaggerated 
 fashion once they die and then start gyrating and twitching as if they're being electrocuted for 
 up to an entire minute before they simply vanish from sight. Save for the moments when the game 
 completely freezes, every time a zombie loads up, the frame rate does mostly hold up, but it would 
 be really difficult for it not to with graphics that look this ancient.  

          Rag-doll physics are really at their best when they're completely broken.     

  Even 
 mentioning Land of the Dead's abysmal audio almost seems like it would be giving it too much credit. 
 Zombies have about two or three distinct grunts and gurgling sounds, all of which seem forced or 
 overwrought. Jack talks like a man reading a script -- very, very poorly. The weapon effects are 
 generic and flat, and the music, if you even want to call it that, consists of a four-measure loop 
 of grating unpleasantness that changes to a different four-measure loop of grating unpleasantness 
 as you jump to each new level. If ever there were a game that demanded a mute button, this is the 
 one.  

  The most insane thing about Land of the Dead: Road to Fiddler's Green is that it doesn't feel like 
 the kind of rushed, hack-job piece of work that often comes from movie licenses. Considering the 
 fairly lengthy single-player game and that there's a complete multiplayer mode that's online-enabled, 
 it's very clear that a group of people put time and effort into this unadulterated train wreck 
 of a game. And that's depressing on so many levels. Regardless of whatever effort was sunk into 
 this fool's errand, Land of the Dead is far and away one of the most atrocious gaming experiences 
 to be found on the PC. And like the zombies contained within, it should be shot, burned, stabbed, 
 or otherwise slaughtered until there's no possible way for it to harm anyone again. Seriously, 
 don't play this game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (95 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: godofhell2
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 25, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  Positive
  - You can always avoid it
  
  Negative
  - Stupid AI
  - Horrible graphics
  - Awful action
  - Switching off the music will be better
  - Too many glitches 
  
  Some 
 said this was a bad game, but not so bad. If you like zombies you will be likely disappointed by 
 Land of the Dead. There is nothing working quite well. It was bad on the XBOX, just see the score 
 and it's just as bad on the PC, some little differences between the 2 versions but some bad things 
 were bad and are still bad. 
  
  Most bad games have bad AI, this is not the first game I played which have terrible AI. AI, artificial 
 intelligence, are zombies and are dead, so dead that sometimes doesn't attack you or doesn't run 
 towards you. The game has far too many glitches and graphics are horrible. Voice acting, zombie 
 voice acting are terrifically awful. Also zombies never really surprise you like they do in Resident 
 Evil or in other zombie games. There's almost no variety of enemies, you will fight the same zombies 
 over and over again through the whole game. Zombies also have some sounds. Action is sadly bad. 
 Weapons feel uneven. Sound is abysmal; switching your speakers will do you a world of good. Background 
 music and other music will have your ears bleed. Glitches can be found anywhere. 
  
  Doing reviews of bad games looks fun but it not. It makes you reflect and realize how bad games 
 have become. Also it makes you think why creators don't spend more time or don't simply make this 
 game free. Ok, many will say because of the money, but a game like this isn't worth any money or 
 time. Zombie fans have to lay back and stay away from this game and this is a zombie game that 
 it's better left to die in peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadeathLucifer
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 4, 2008 4:29 am PT
Review:  Well... it is really hard to find where to start, because this game, Land of the dead, is just broken 
 in every aspect. YES, every aspect!
  
  The game-play is OK only for the first five minutes, then it turns out to be the most boring thing 
 in the world - I mean, how can you play a game with only one type of enemy? All the enemies are 
 totally the same, just in different appearances. Once you find out how to kill a zombie with a 
 close combat weapon, congratulations, you have already beat the game, thanks to the unbelievable 
 lack of enemy variety. All the enemies out there are just damn, weak and stupid zombies.
  
  The graphics are really terrible, which make it hard to believe that it is a game of 2005. All 
 the textures suck, make the game a visual disaster. Maybe the game tries to create a gloomy atmosphere, 
 but in fact what you get is a blurred and disgusting one.
  
  Then, the sound, in this game, is a big joke. This game make you feel like a idiot by repeating 
 the extremely monotone, discordant and short music ( well... let us try to call it music ) . Other 
 parts of sounds are better, but still awful.
  
  To make a conclusion, I found someone reviewing this game said: "If you wants a game that can suck 
 you in, then try this one."... I just wants to reply: "This game will not suck you in at all; it 
 just incredibly sucks." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trinity106
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 1, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Ok, i will be the first to admit this isn't Call of Duty 4 caliber. Not even close. But the official 
 review on this site is much too hard on this title.
  
  Keep in mind that this game was made with a shoestring budget. With that in mind, this game is 
 at least entertaining, and actually ENJOYABLE to a person who enjoy blasting the crap out of dead 
 people.
  
  The hit detection is wacky. Sometimes you go for a head shot and their arm blows off. But still, 
 their arm blows off in a mass of gore. That's kind of cool, and it give you an excuse to shoot 
 them again, and isn't that why we are playing in the first place? To blast the crap out of zombies? 
 Of course it is.
  
  The graphics aren't the greatest, but they aren't nearly as bad as the review makes them out to 
 be! The zombies look decent, lots of blood, and i like the animations of the guns reloading, even 
 though they can be time consuming in a pinch.
  
  I don't know what the reviewer is smoking when he says how wretched the music is. Yes it is redundant, 
 not overly complicated, and not on Splinter Cell level. But this is a BUDGET GAME, and must be 
 judged as such. The music, while simple and redundant, is ultimately successful at its primary 
 job: being SPOOKY. That is what is important in this type of title. The music will put you on edge 
 and besides, once the zombies start coming, you will not be thinking of the music; You'll be too 
 busy blasting the crap out of zombies.
  
  It IS cool how the zombies will follow you from room to room, and even bust down doors you have 
 closed separating you from them. That leads to tense moments as you search for health or ammo while 
 they are brutalizing the door trying to get in. 
  
  So again, this is a low priced budget game, and for what it is it is good. I personally enjoy it 
 very much and can overlook the flaws that it has. But a rating of 2 is downright unfair and completely 
 inaccurate. Like i said in the title of my review; it's not THAT bad! You want to know what a budget 
 game with a crazy low rating really is? Try playing the Marine Sharpshooter games and THEN come 
 play Land of the Dead. Then Land of the Dead WILL feel like Call of Duty 4 by comparison.
  
  DO you like zombies? You like blasting zombies? Buy this game. It has "Guilty Pleasure" written 
 all over it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akhorahill
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 7, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  Land of the Dead is a first person shooter based on George's Romero Land of the Dead. It puts you 
 in the shoes of a farmer trying to survive an unexplained zombie outbreak. One given day, the dead 
 decided to raise and eat the brains of the living. Dead simple, eh ? The game has no plot (nor 
 does the movie) , no puzzles and pretty much nothing but zombie shooting and chopping from the first 
 to the last chapter.
  
  The levels are linear and fairly simple, you just walk from one spot to the other killing everything 
 in your way. Once or twice it'll require you to collect a tool or key to open a gate or door but 
 most of the time you'll just run and gun every dead person you meet until the next scene.
  
  The levels are not bad but simple and the textures somehow lack polish, mainly the early levels. 
 The city levels are a tad better when it comes to final polish but everything does feel liked a 
 rushed project. The zombies are not bad, some models are actually pretty funny and satisfying to 
 chop down but the environment definitely could use an upgrade.
  
  Firearms offer little to no satisfaction because most of the weapons have no "kick". They sound 
 like toys and the zombies pretty much ignore the impact unless you use a shotgun or a revolver. 
 Most of the time it's possible to shoot an enemy in the head for an instant kill on in the leg 
 or arm to sever it down but that does not work all the time as for some obscure reason the developers 
 have decided that armed zombies can't be dismembered nor can zombies during moments of climax - 
 on the end of chapters etc.
  
  The axe is what might make the game worth your while. Simple yet very effective, you can pretty 
 much use this weapon all the time. It easily chops down arms, sever arms, blows heads and rewards 
 you with buckets of blood and gore. It's the only weapon that really has power and makes the combat 
 actually fun and challenging.
  
  The game offers a nice movie at the start of every chapter and some interesting broadcasts if you 
 mind turning on the radios you find on your way but the plot could've been better. There's a fair 
 amount of gore and blood all over the scenarios - which is a plus in my book - and it's worth to 
 stop and look at some of the post carnage scenes. I can't help felling it would've been a much 
 better game if the devs had been allowed to work on it a bit longer.
  
  There's some satisfaction in chopping down several groups of zombies with the axe in the few hours 
 of the game, watching the bloody murder scenes and just killing everything on your path, even if 
 it sounds simple on today's standards for FPS. If you mind bad AI, zombies getting stuck on doorsteps 
 or bland backgrounds, then this game is not for you. On the other hand, if you think there's nothing 
 better than chopping down zombies with a bloody axe in a B movie, then I'd say it's worth a try.
 
  
  I've upload some screens and a game play movie for your viewing pleasure, please check my profile 
 for the links. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheXenolith
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 23, 2008 1:48 am PT
Review:  LOTD is supposed to put you in one of George Romero's movies. Which it does not do. If you are 
 expecting a great experience, this is not the game for you. The reason I played this was because 
 there isn't really a lot of choice when it comes to zombie invasion games. I didn't want to believe 
 what they said about this game, so I took the plunge and fell into a truckload of manure.
  
  The Good:
  
  - Decent choice of weapons
  - Zombies actually look freaky, sometimes
 
  - Voice acting is surprisingly good
  - Blood gushes out from zombies
  - Very low system requirements
  
  The Bad:
  
  - It uses the 10 year old Unreal engine (although 
 they claim it was tweaked)
  - Your in game buddy Otis is as dumb as the zombies when it comes to combat
  - The developers 
 resorted to cheap scares way too often
  - Foolish hit detection system (aren't zombies supposed to die when shot in the dead?)
  - No 
 story coop mode (that would've raised the score a bit)
  - Mediocre story
  - Horrible multi player coop
  
  Play it if:
  
  - You are desperate for zombie games
  
 - You want to play it just to see for yourself
  - You really really like zombies
  
  Don't play it if:
  
  - You expect at least an average game
  - You want to see state of the 
 art graphics
  - You are expecting Resident Evil
  - You are expecting Left 4 Dead
  - You want a great story
  - You expect a nice coop game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Well, Gamespot certainly took the fire axe to this game. The official review is indeed full of 
 blistering criticism. User reviews are actually polarised with those aligned to the site's view, 
 to those who think it's the best since sliced bread, with people also sitting in the middle suggesting 
 it's an average, but not unenjoyable game.
  
  I'm with the last lot. Land of the Dead: Road to Fiddler's Green is a budget zombie shooter, and 
 it doesn't pretend to be anything else. However, despite the rather basic interface, buggy programming 
 and one-track gameplay, Land of the Dead, somehow, delivers a mildly enjoyable gaming experience. 
 
  
  You play as Jack, a rural chap living life in one chord, before a zombie outbreak reaches his home. 
 However, instead of fleeing for hills to avoid this dire and doom-riddled situation, Jack actually 
 heads into the big smoke and consequently headlong into wave after wave of undead foes. Jack's 
 strange logic leads to plenty of zombie combat action with a variety of weapons including my personal 
 favourite, the fire axe.
  
  The graphics are rather basic. This is no cutting edge graphical extravaganza. I guess the zombies 
 themselves actually look like zombies, but the character models are simple and repetitive. The 
 gore factor is there, but again, it's simple gore. Weapons are basic but identifiable. I like the 
 axe, but I'll get to that. The environments, whilst noting there are plenty of them, are also basically 
 designed, looking angular and dated. Add to this some clipping issues and you've got a graphical 
 representation on the wrong side of satisfactory. But it's not unbearable, and the FMV's are OK.
 
  
  The sound is laughably bad. The music is consists of one-note looped melodies that are a truly 
 poor. The zombies all expel the same generic groans that do not add any atmosphere to the game 
 and the sounds of the weapons are bland generic discharges best placed in a 70's or budget production 
 movie. It may well just be the worst sound I've heard in a game.
  
  So yes, the graphics and sound do not provide the greatest first impression in gaming history, 
 but when it comes to the nitty gritty, this game actually works, perhaps at times in spite of itself.
 
  
  The AI is appalling. Zombies appear to be wandering pensively almost Einstein-like until you hit 
 the pixel that alerts them to your presence. From there, they simply come for you. Sounds boring? 
 Not when there's about nine of them and when at normal speed you feel like you are wading through 
 treacle. You can sprint for short distances which speeds you up to the normal level of any other 
 first person action game, but other than at you have to front up and face the music. That's of 
 course, if they do not get stuck in doorways, hallways or in mysterious invisible barriers. But 
 a good thud with a blunt instrument normally gets them back on track. And their ability to barge 
 through cement walls, to cannon through ceilings and explode through grates it worthy of the price 
 of admission, especially as with a fraction of that effort you can normally dispose of them.
  
  There is a decent variety in the foes you will face, with the ones that crawl and nip your 
 ankles being particularly irritating. They can cause serious damage if they get at you and by virtue 
 of the AI mentioned above, they normally hunt in packs, though unintentionally so. You can run 
 and hide if it's looking grim, so get out of the magic circle of zombie awareness and they don't 
 even know you exist.
  
  The story is pretty basic  and there isn't a lot of closure at the end. It's your country lad 
 heading through levels upon levels of zombies just to get to Fiddler's Green where  if you defeat 
 zombies as per any other level  everything is OK again. But anyway, who needs a story to go zombie 
 hunting?
  
  The weapons are reasonable and the sparse amount of ammunition is ideal. To hell with an unlimited 
 supply of ammunition, you have to accurate (read: lucky) or go toe-to-toe with these suckers. But 
 if you ask me, toe-to-toe is where maximum entertainment value is obtained.
  
  OK  the fire axe. I've never taken exception to an official review but I have to on this occasion. 
 It details a flat, dull response of using this instrument, given the time it takes to conjure a 
 decent swing. Well, I chopped wood for the fire as a lad and guess what? With an axe, you have 
 to slowly swing back past the point of fulcrum before transferring effort back to perpendicular 
 where you finally reach some serious power. From there, it's all about placement. And believe it 
 or not, this game, whether intentionally or not, gets the actual act of swinging an axe correct. 
 Load and aim correctly and you will nail a zombie with some gratuitous satisfaction. Get it wrong 
 and they will get a good swipe at you. Safe to say, I spent more than half of the game with axe 
 in hand taking the zombies on in ths alternate reality version of chopping firewood.
  
  There are actually quite a few levels to get to until you reach Fiddler's Green, and whilst it 
 may all get a bit repetitive, there's plenty of zombie elimination to keep one reasonably occupied. 
 I'm not going to state that this is a groundbreaking title, but I did actually enjoy the simple, 
 buggy, graphically and aurally inept and gratuitous gaming this title served up. Don't expect a 
 fright fest or a technological wonder of varied complex gameplay  just axe some zombies.
  
  Land of the Dead  Road to Fiddler's Green cost about $AUD10. I would not pay much more than 
 that and I do empathise with those who payed full price. The campaign took about 6 hours to complete 
 at the default difficulty and whilst there is the option of playing a higher difficulty level (and 
 multiplayer, apparently) , this was enough for me.
  
  So there you have it. This title has all the ingredients for a disastrous game and it is clear 
 that many folk feel it is indeed that. But, there is something about it that makes it a mildly 
 enjoyable slow-motioned axe-wielding campaign of zombie slaying. I don't feel ashamed to admit 
 that I enjoyed what it offered. Get over the graphics, sounds and bugs, get the big axe in your 
 mitts, and start swinging. Land of the Dead: Road to Fiddlers Green  you'll barely like it or 
 absolutely detest it, but I bet you won't forget it in a hurry.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: moscardino
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 5:39 am PT
Review:  LOTD RTFG is a decent zombie game that does its job of being a budget movie tie-in. The weapons 
 have no kick and when shooting the player has no idea if they will be effective. Some kill in one 
 shot to the leg while others will kill in 12 to the head. Melee weapons are just as bad but are 
 useless if used in primary attack as they have no effect and so you have to use stronger and slower 
 attacks. Melee weapons also have no kick and will be pokes at best in attacking, but when a rag-doll 
 zombie is poked it will shoots down to the round in bad physics. Graphics for character models are 
 quite detailed and so are some environments, but when it comes to vegetation the graphics are stuck 
 in the PlayStation 1 era. The zombies AI is also not up to standards with them being stuck behind 
 many objects and making them easy to pick off.
  
  Overall it is a decent movie tie-in but could have used a lot more work on graphics and game-play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagnumPI
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. I can't believe it's been rated so poorly. The only complaint I have is that 
 once you master the emergency axe the game is too easy. I just walk through and smash all of their 
 heads with the axe. The Axe is the best weapon if you know how to swing it. It's also my personal 
 favorite. 
  
  The player is trying to make it through a city full of zombies. They just wonder around. What else 
 did people expect? It's just fun. You play as this Dude that lives in the boonies. You Start with 
 a Henry .22. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 5
  Graphics 4
  Sounds 4
  Value 6
  Tilt 7
  
  The good
  * Game bugs that can actually enhances the 'scare' factor
  * Strangely addictive due to the stupidity 
 of the AI
  * The zombies actually are zombies
  * The axe
  
  The bad
  * Everything else
  
  I'm not a big fan of watching any movies. The amount of times I have seen 
 where the hero either does something remarkably stupid or humanly impossible for the sake of the 
 'brain dead' audience turns me off. So here you have the game 'Land of the Dead'. To my belief 
 the movie starts off where the game ends.
  
  Considering also that I'm a pretty big fan of zombies (take a look at my addy 'Azghouls') and do 
 enjoy a good zombie flick however surprising enough I haven't seen this one yet. Well, what's a 
 better way than watching the movie 'The Land of the Dead' is to play the movie? Here in the game 
 I can do whatever I want and whenever the time (limited to the game's engine of course) .
  
  However, this time the entire game is completely devoid of anything good in a PC game. Dull graphics, 
 poor quality sounds, repetitive game play and the AI is probably the worst I have ever seen.
  
  Of course the game starts off with the hero looking out of the window wondering why some dude 
 is just standing there. Besides the point that this dude is covered in wounds that no human can 
 possibly withstands, he decides to walk outside to have a chin wag. Is life that boring out among 
 the cornfields?
  
  From here on in, I'm glad that I'm playing 'Mr. Perception plus'. This gives me an excuse that 
 if I do something stupid like swimming in an electrified pool of water, I can say I'm playing the 
 role of the character.
  
  The game uses the Unreal Technology. For the sake of god, why? The engine is famed for its graphics 
 and physics however it seems that the developers stripped away all the Unreal goodness and left 
 the drabs. You cannot believe the very same engine made Unreal 2004, SWAT 4 or Brothers In Arms.
 
  
  So throw away your textbook physics and embrace the Land of the Dead laws. I have seen zombies 
 materialise through walls, sinking through floors, crawling in air and able to move underwater 
 like on the surface. On top of that, they will not chase you once they loose site of you. Another 
 words, hide behind a wall and they'll stop. Then pick up your axe and swipe the wall. They will 
 die eventually. However I must say it's so worth seeing how some of the zombies arrive on the scene. 
 Whether they crash through walls, smash through doors or fall from a great height, they normally 
 crumple into a heap of dead meat then rise up to admire their new surroundings.
  
  Mundane things like picking up weapons, health or even just searching through drawers can be extremely 
 frustrating as the collision detection is virtually nil. I think this is the scariest thing in 
 the game. Try and pick up some ammo whilst hearing a zombie moaning near you. It's harder than 
 you think. So there you have it; a bug in the game that can actually make the game very frightening 
 indeed.
  
  There are five different breed of zombies. There are your typical ones that shuffle and moan and 
 some will carry a weapon for good measure. Also there are the Linda Blair's wanna-be, that is spewing 
 green crap from their mouths whilst shuffling (a good party trick IMO) , zombies on all fours acting 
 like rabit dogs (those are the freakiest of them all and the skittering noise does freak me out 
 a little) , exploding zombies (they rattle their heads before the big bang) and the most worthless 
 of them all, the screaming ones. What they'll do is they take in a huge breath (since when do zombies 
 have lungs) and scream... and scream... and scream until you out of their line-of-sight. These idiots 
 don't attack at all; just put them out of their misery and axe them.
  
  Typical weapons like the pistol, shotgun, sniper etc are all here however considering the limited 
 ammo lying about you will rely on the hand-to-hand weapons. Pipes, shovels, hammers, baseball bats, 
 golf clubs, your fists and my favourite the axe are all here. Why the axe is so great that considering 
 that the other weapons are just the bludgeoning types, the axe can actually cut off limbs. Now 
 me being creative and sadistic, I really like to punish the zombies; cut off one arm and one leg 
 and watch them fall down and forever swiping at you. They will make this weird growling sounds 
 and waddle like a fish out of water. They eventually gurgle up and die (again) . And if you are 
 good enough try knocking down three of them. All three will waddle and swipe each other.
  
  What makes a horror game truly come to life are the sounds. Uninspired music and the forever moaning 
 of the zombies won't lift an eyebrow in this one. However I quite like the gurgling sounds they 
 make just before their death. On the flipside, the voice acting is quite good. Your country hick 
 hero does sound dopey and suits the character quite well.
  
  As far a FPS goes, the length is pretty much average. I really couldn't tell you how long I have 
 played the game however I think it's around 12 hours. Also there is your typical easy, medium and 
 hard levels however considering that I have played this game on hard, I swear is so damn easy that 
 you can literally punch your way till the end. The multiplayer option does looks like good fun 
 though. You have your typical Death Match, Team Death Match, Capture the Documents (CTF) and Evasion. 
 However the twist here is that there are mindless zombies moaning about as well as the players. 
 Nice to swing a baseball bat at! And to those who are familiar with UT 1999, the menus are pretty 
 much the same.
  
  Taking into consideration of Gamespot's 'think tank' and their decision to rid of the five categories 
 score, I have reinvented the wheel and placed it in my review. For the life of me, I cannot recommend 
 this game to anyone however there is one category that I can kiss forever called 'tilt' where besides 
 all the technical aspects of the game, tilt represents your feelings towards the game and not anyone 
 else. I say it again... my feelings. And I have felt good playing this game as it's so damn addictively 
 stupid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubear666
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  Being a big Romero fan and hearing they had made not only a new game but a prequel to the film 
 I was kinda interested in seeing what it was all about. From 1st impressions you can tell this 
 wasn't made with a big budget but once you start playing you really get into it.
  I have completed this game several times now and I can honestly say however short it is I don't 
 get bored. The level graphics are very bare and basic but are very large in respect. The zombies 
 are well designed and the AI is a but boring but then again zombies ain't supposed to be intelligent. 
 The game is genuinely creepy at points e. g. when your running through the cornfield at the start. 
 I know a lot of people didn; t really like the game but if you love zombies then I you will more 
 than likely enjoy this game.
  The game is probably not for a large audience as you do have to be patient with the graphics and 
 overall gameplay is very basic but all Romero fans will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eyestorage
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 19, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Most people gave this game a bad review... which, for the most part, has truth to it. The AI is 
 terrible!! You can pretty much stand on a desk and beat the crap out of the zombies and they won't 
 so much as try to touch you. There are a few BAD bugs in the game (even in the newest patch) where 
 you must restart your last saved... hopefully you have saved recently! Bugs like the famous, through 
 or under the arm camera view! What the heck is that all about? You can't seem to switch back to 
 the First-Person view... it's just stuck forever.
  
  I do, however, LOVE zombie games/flicks/books... you name it. So with that said, I gave it a 7.5. 
 Why, you ask?! It does have some decent graphics... granted, not stellar blow your eyes out of their 
 sockets impressive... but decent none-the-less. Lot's of people complain about the music being horrible, 
 but I thought that it helped get you in the mood to be scared a bit. Call me a sissy, but when 
 I had to go walking through the foggy cornfield with a dinky .22 rifle... I thought that was pretty 
 scary at 2:00 in the morning!!
  
  The one thing that I truely DIDN'T like, was that there isn't any distinction on where you shot 
 them. I think that if you shoot them in the head, that one or two shots should bring them down 
 (or atleast 1/2 of what it takes if you shoot them in the body) . EVERYONE know that if you shoot 
 a zombie in the head it goes down faster. Not in this game though... you could shoot it in the toe 
 4 times and kill it, but if you aim for it's head, you still have to shoot it 4 or sometimes even 
 5-6 times. That made me mad...
  
  Good game for me because of the zombies... if they weren't zombies... I would have given it a 2.5 
 or maybe a 3. Give me a break... I like zombies darn you :p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bender5340
Rating: 1.6
Date: Apr 10, 2007 11:47 pm PT
Review:  This game was the worst zombie game ever, and i've played Blood II: The Chosen. Seriously here's 
 the game in a nutshell: You're some hick out in hick country and you decide to become the one man 
 zombie slaying army. Now the gameplay was just plain boring. There is no real sense of bullet impact 
 which takes away from any type of immersion that a game could possibly hope to sustain, the physics 
 were clunky and odd, i. e: if you shot a zombie in the legs with the shotgun, while facing it, it 
 would do a BACKFLIP. That's right, a backflip. It would flip in the exact opposite direction that 
 the bullet impacted it. The graphics were ugly... like real ugly. The multiplayer was laggy and 
 boring. The mods out there for it don't improve the game in any way really. It's just an atrocious 
 game. Such a letdown, such a huge letdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 2.1
Date: Feb 28, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Agree. Land of the Dead for being released in 2005 is a sad excuse of a game. Maybe if it would 
 have been released in 2000 or in the 90's it would have been called a decent game but nowadays 
 it is crap. The A. I. while supposed to be acting dead, in a weird way, actually feels dead by being 
 so stupid and running into walls or just plain stopping mid break into an attack to just stand 
 in place. The only thing worse there than A. I. is the physics and hitboxes. If you shoot a zombie 
 a few seconds (Yes, Seconds) later the hit MAY register and you could get the kill. Then when this 
 occurs you will laugh as the zombie oddly flys around the room and flops dead in a hysterical death 
 animation or just plain bad physics. Your objectives in LotD are also fairly blank with pointless 
 motive and/or objectives being to just kill all zombies in the area, which gets very boring after 
 about an hour. The thing to top the whole game off is the poor visuals that make you think your 
 back in the Doom and Duke Nukem Shooter Age. With a common assortment of weapons and a poorly made 
 game, I regret even adding Land of the Dead to my collection list on Gamespot. (Mainly due to the 
 badge that I got after doing so... The Bad Taste Badge, Thx LotD and Bet on Soldier! ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatzombiepigeon
Rating: 6.1
Date: Feb 17, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Land of the Dead: Road to Fiddler's Green is a decent game that wasn't worth the full price of 
 a game, but never was the full price. It started as a 20 dollar game that, for the most part was 
 meant for the bargain bin. The game boasts pretty fun combat, shooting zombies is fun, and there 
 are a good variety of guns and melee weapons to use, and even grenades and molotov cocktails are 
 an option. Jack, the player character, moves only a little faster than the zombies unless you use 
 the run option (Which only lasts for about five seconds) , but what do you expect from an old farmer? 
 The zombies are stupid, even for zombies, and the graphics are mediocre, only character models 
 are impressive. Textures and level design are third rate, music consists of looping soundtracks 
 that are OK at first, but can become pretty annoying. Guns and zombies make satisfying sound effects, 
 and the sound of a baseball bat coming in contact with a zombie's head is always funny. Multiplayer 
 modes are present, including boring deathmatch and CTF modes, but also include the suprisingly 
 fun and entertaining survival mode, which involves you and other gamers fighting off big armies 
 of zombies until a timer counts down and the next match begins, all players killed brought back 
 to life and a new wave of zombies show up. You'll be surgically liberating the limbs of the dead 
 for many hours, even though the single player only lasts around four, the multiplayer will keep 
 you going for a while. If you see the game, I suggest you pick it up, if for nothing other than 
 the multiplayer. There is a story in the single player which is pretty interesting, but the multiplayer 
 is where it's at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson-_-Tears
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 21, 2007 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Let me first off start with the online part in the game is not that well thought out it gets boring 
 pretty quickly. Pretty much all you do run around the area, and kill zombies can't go any further 
 witch makes it boring if they have let you freely roam around a big map, or give you other types 
 of missions or just even get to the city of the living that would of not been that bad. Also you 
 die fairly quickly witch makes it frustrating on some of the maps that come with the game.
  
  Ok then onto the game and everything else theres these irritating glitches that when you shoot 
 them in the head it dose not really count as a head shot heck sometimes maybe not at all. Voice 
 acting is bad . They repeat the same sounds for the zombies and the music is not that either.
 
  
  My advice if you like zombie, and FPS type games you can look here but it will leave you disappointed. 
 Its pretty cheap now like around 10$ I suppose. I suggest not spending over $10 dollars on this 
 terrible game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WateredTruth
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 11, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  I'll make this short. The game might not look like half life 2 or fear. It might not be scary but 
 it can be jumpy. A good shooter which is worth the bargain bin price. Its good for those who like 
 a unreal type gameplay with a zombie-esk story. There are a gaggle of gushy guns and If you want 
 something to kill a few hours than go with this. just make sure you get the PC version. or else 
 you'll be screwed. It also has a pretty good multiplayer so if you get bored of unreal tournament 
 than try this. you might not be disipointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Egyptiangamer20
Rating: 2.8
Date: Jan 7, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Personally, i love zombie flicks and any games that involve zombies, like resident evil and dead 
 rising, but once i got a hold on to this game, i was outraged. Land of the dead is based on the 
 film, but the story of the game is just stupid. Controls take a little used to, but they arent 
 that bad. Best thing about this game is the graphics, but it still aint great. The sounds of the 
 zombies groaning is just repeatitive. Every zombie has 3 different sounds in the whole game, and 
 after a while they will make u mad. I dont even think there was any music in the game; if the developers 
 added some decent scary music, it would made the game more creepier. There's almost no occasion 
 where zombies try to scare the player by popping out of somewhere, it only happens like twice and 
 thats it. Another frustrating part of the game is the weapons. Right in the beginning in the game, 
 u start getting bombarded by zombies, and u have dodge a bunch of them to get a gun that only kills 
 like 2 of them. Eventually later on u get a decent amount of ammo for ur weapons, and u even get 
 melee weapons, but when faced with a bunch of zombies, u will die even before u kill 2 of them. 
 Overall, this game is just messed up. I wouldnt even recommend it to fans of zombie or scary movies. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wakinghours
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 19, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  I was excited when I heard about this game, then extremely put off by the Gamespot review, which 
 I think is pretty unfair - and incorrect in some places. I just finished playing this game and 
 I had a blast. I'm looking forward to playing it again on a higher difficulty next.
  
  If you're a fan of zombies, and first person shooters, and care more about having fun then seeing 
 some hi-end graphics - then give this game a chance.
  
  I sometimes think it's a shame that a game like this gets such bad reviews, just because it's not 
 the latest Half LIfe 2, Far Cry, or Call of Duty.
  
  Games can still be fun without all the high production values. I'd rather play dozens of games 
 like this one, than wait 3-5 years for a sequel of one of the big hit games. I think it's pretty 
 telling that Call of Duty 3 wasn't released for PC. Maybe they've raised the bar so much that companies 
 don't think it's equitable to make PC games anymore? Hopefully this isn't a trend, but if it is, 
 it will be up to the smaller companies like Brainbox to come up with lower budget games that are 
 still fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: someone8462
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 28, 2006 3:10 am PT
Review:  Land of the dead road to fiddlers green sucked major pee pee vagina on the xbox. So I got the pc 
 version cuz it was cheaper and i'm better with pc controls. It still kinda sucked but when i downloaded 
 the 1.1 patch the hit detection improved and i got new maps and other stuff. It somehow made the 
 game alot bettter expeccialy with the better hit detection. Well I don't have much time right now 
 so i'll end this review.
  
  Pros. 1.1 patch makes it so much better with better hit detection
  Lots of gore
  Awesome music
 
  Kickass main charecter
  Multiplayer is really fun
  It has zombies in it lol whats bad bout that
  
  Cons
  Still has the retarted wall humping 
 zombies
  Single player don't have the best replay value
  A few graphical issues hear and there
  Getting into online multiplayer games can be a tad frusterating 
 sometiems (its prolly just my internet) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kouryuu524
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 15, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  This is a pretty fun game if you dont mind shelling out 20 dollars for it or waiting 3 days to 
 download it off of a bit torrent. Its rather fun to blast zombies in the head with a hight powered 
 weapon and blow it apart. But the thing is is that they dont count all head shots as instant deaths 
 which sucks but is understandable seeing as there arent whords of enemies. (max of like 7 to 10 
 at a time) . But seeing as i cant find another FPS zombie shooter its good. It would be good if 
 they put more time in the gameplay and so on. The graphics are so so but for the game and price 
 are good. Over all its fun to play when you get bored of RE4 or Doom3 or somethign of that sort. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nethrentol
Rating: 7.2
Date: Sep 18, 2006 4:49 pm PT
Review:  This game Was FUN in the a maxumem level. LOts of Wepones zombie skines and of corse zombies. MAny 
 wepones made the game fun but a some point boring and dull. Some levels are good because it is 
 realistic unlike resident evil were you have to find a crest to open a door in the police staiton, 
 but in this you just have to go through a vent, get the code, and go back. But the graphic's are 
 pritty bad, lots of gliches, and really stupid Ai. All in all it is a prity good game. A definent 
 game for zombie lover's 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MB_E102
Rating: 1.1
Date: Aug 29, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  Okay, I've been playing video games since I was 3 years old. Blades of Steel on the NES if you'd 
 like to know. I've seen my fair share of stinkers, and heck, some parts of those stinker's I've 
 really enjoyed. But I must apologize to Groove games for having to say this: "This game is not 
 even worthing **** on!" And I mean that as respectfully as I can. I know your supposed to get into 
 the basement and what-not, and that punching the zombie isn't going to kill it... blah blah blah. 
 But thats B. S.!!! I was punching him in the head. Heck, I was kicking him while he was down too. 
 I ran so many laps through that first level, you'd think the Zombie's legs would rot off. Nope. 
 Though when I punched him, the Zombie did fall through the floor and bounce up like a rubber ducky 
 held underwater. Albeit quite neat, what the hell is that doing in this game? I think Alex was 
 being far too nice with this one. 2.1, ya, way too nice. It loses 1 whole point for taking a great 
 premise for a game, pulling down their pants, and laying the worst load of enchilada-induced feco-splatter 
 ever imaginable.
  
  The karma physics engine... a decent physics engine, has no need in a game where you can punch 
 a Zombie in the face, and kick him while he's down, until the cows come home. Sure, I could pass 
 the level, and get a gun, but, that first punch made me want to quit that game entirely, but, being 
 the open-minded person I am, I went back, and... no, I'm done. Screw this game. I don't know whose 
 in that Brainbox their speaking off, but it sure seems a Zombie 80's B-Movie amount of braincells 
 to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KevMachine
Rating: 1.8
Date: Aug 9, 2006 5:47 pm PT
Review:  While in walmart on day i was looking to buy a new game for my pc..
  i was kinda low on money so i looked through games that were in the under 20 dollar price. While 
 looking i came across land of the dead, which by the look on the cover with all the gore and stuff 
 i love about zombie games, i looked no farther.
  When I got home i immediatly install and started playing. I could tell almost at first that the 
 game wasnt going to deliver what i thought, by the poor sound qualitys and the menu was afull! 
 As I started playing I realized my worst fears has came true, i blew 20 dollars.
  At first i bit my tonge, so hard it almost bleed, and kept playing, cuz it was like 10 o clock 
 and there wass nothing else to do, and hoped that the game might come around. By the time i got 
 the m-16, which was fun for 10 seconds, there had been no diffuculty at all at killing the stupid 
 zombies that seemed more stupid in this game then the last, and i had not died a single time on 
 normal mode. 
  The game offered no range of change just the simple stupid monsters and a low rate of weapons to 
 chose from.
  After i bet it I was left feeling unaccomplished and that i have not done anything other then walk 
 and shoot.
  IT would be an UNDERSTATMENT, yes an understatment to say this game even closely gave me an even 
 slight sence of excitment. 
  Big disapontment, and a waste of my hard erned bucks.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombey1333
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 8, 2006 5:33 am PT
Review:  Note: YES, I KNOW, MY SN IS SPELLED 'EY INSTEAD OF 'IE. IT'S SUPPOSED TO BE THAT WAY! I DID IT 
 ON PURPOSE FOR VARIATIONAL PURPOSES! WHY AM I TYPING IN CAPS? Anyway c_c;;...
  
  Bought "Land Of The Dead: Unrated" on dvd the night it came out and tossed it into the DVD player 
 when I got home. Opening previews began and there she was. A video game centered around the -Romero- 
 zombie universe.
  Freakin sweet.
  I purchased the sucker as soon as possible from the nearest Gamespot and commenced with the zombie 
 fun.
  I've never really had to much experience with first person shooters (Heck, I think the only one 
 I had actually played prior to this was called "Corridor 7" for the pc. Trust me, it's old :p) 
 but I could safely say that I could -easily- handle the controls with my mouse and keyboard.
  The graphix were pretty decent and didn't tax the crap out of my computer. For those of you that 
 don't have the computer-equal of the xbox 360 or ps3, you might -actually- be able to play this 
 one! :O!! WOW!
  The Romero movies have always had a bit of eeriness to it. They were never really "jump-out-at-you" 
 scary so much as they were psychological (which, in this gamer's opinion, is all that matters) . 
 This installment into the dead series has a wonderfully-horrifying blend of both. At night, with 
 no light except your computer screen, this game will have you dreading every corner. Especially 
 if you've the need to conserve ammo because, in most zombie cases, having to go hand to hand would 
 kinda suck for you. :p
  If you're a graphix elitist (sp) or expects their fps to be full of pulse pounding constant action, 
 this game is not for you, and that is very, very sad. :P
  For those of you who prefer a game that sucks you in and scares the hell out of you, buy this, 
 you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lobsterbushcrab
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 3, 2006 5:39 am PT
Review:  i like this game. its not as bad as people say.
  
  the game doesnt really follow the movie at all, so I dont no why its called LOTD, but it is still 
 fun. you get to chop zombies are and legs of with axe's smack them with golf clubs ect.
  
  a part that shines in the game is multiplayer for a game that got a bad rap it has a heck of a 
 lo of people playing it.
  
  Yes i agree that it is a old version on the UT 2003/4 engine and it looks quite bland. The sound 
 is quite good and well done.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EddieDavis
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 11, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  OK, look. The rating given by Gamespot is just plain unfair. That kind of score is appropriate 
 for games with game-killing glitches or bugs, no care or attention to the game environment, or 
 no ability to save whenever you want (yes, it's that important!) . 
  Admittedly, I've got a thing for zombies. That is to say, they freakin' give me the heebee-jeebies!! 
 And this game, minor flaws notwithstanding, gets it basically right. The zombies themselves are 
 appropriately nasty looking, and sound like... well, like zombies. When you are pitted against them, 
 it isn't a cat-and-mouse, pop-up-from-behind-cover battle of wits, it's a differnet kind of combat 
 altogether, as you would expect. They aren't afraid of you, they take different levels of damage 
 (inflicted by your very limited supply of ammo) , and they just keep coming. Management of supplies 
 becomes important. They aren't everywhere, but that doesn't stop you from checking around every 
 corner. The tension that this game creates is palpable -- you close doors behind you, you look 
 up often while searching cabinets and desks, etc. I only wish that there were areas where there 
 were so many that you had absolutely no choice but to run, because when you have to run in this 
 game, it's truly nerve-racking. The environments are cramped, dark (not Doom 3 dark, but dark) , 
 and littered with the bloody remains of recent confrontations with said bad guys. Good stuff. Also, 
 the melee combat is no different than any other FPS game, in that it isn't all that great. However, 
 it isn't a game-killer by a longshot. In fact, I think you'll derive enormous satisfaction from 
 the sound of a pipe, baseball bat, or golf club connecting with a baddie's skull. Joy!
  The in game music isn't groundbreaking, either, but it does what it should -- it adds to the general 
 mood of the game, and does so successfully. The only shortcoming I found was that the zombies tend 
 to telegraph their presence by groaning before you actually see them. It would have been better 
 to have stumbled blindly upon them from time to time, although my laundry bill would have been 
 a lot higher if that were the case.
  In short, this game was well worth the $20 I forked over for it. Creepy atmosphere, a different 
 kind of combat, and a decent, guiding storyline made for a much-better-than-expected experience. 
 Guys, you owe the developers an apology! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acurban
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 1, 2006 6:52 pm PT
Review:  I know I know! It isnt getting great reviews BUT..... I think it delivered exactly what it promised. 
 a fun, challenging, zombie killing game. What do you expect from the movie? the Godfather? 
  You get a great, exciting, spine tingling fun time. I am serious... I got chills while playing 
 this one. The graphics are great, the story moves at a good clip and it remians challenging to 
 the end. I recommend you try the free demo at least. 
  Now, if you DO like zombies like I like zombies... try out this fun online game. you will have 
 a blast. its called Dead Awakening and it is a very simple but very fun game. 
  
  http://www. deadawaken. com/signup. php? refId=7217 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_nyuckles
Rating: 4.8
Date: May 22, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  This game is very diappointing. I started out thinking, woah, look at those graphics, those aren't 
 half bad. In fact, they are quite good. But then I found that even if I shot those old grannies 
 (or most any zombie) in the 'head' it wouldn't give me the satisfying head explosion that would 
 normally go with hitting them there.
  
  Other 'features' are that a lot of the time when you shoot right at a zombie, (and you can be point 
 blank range) your shots won't hit them. They will just pretend it didn't even shoot. Keep coming 
 at you and eating your brains.
  
  Another bad part about this game that there are basically three good weapons and the moltov. The 
 pistol, shotgun and AR15/M16 and the fireaxe. This really took away from the game, considering 
 that even if you hit the zombies in the head with, say, a .22, they still won't go down.
  
  So I prefer to go around with a fireaxe, and I have become quite good at hitting their little heads. 
 But this shouldn't be like that... 
  
  The story mode/single player is pretty bland. Just your run of the mill story. Not very exciting, 
 and very frustrating.
  
  The multi-player mode's areas are a bit too small, and you find yourself running around the same 
 room over and over juggling the pistol or the shotgun.
  
  Pass on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cycon
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 14, 2006 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Me and my friends have been looking all around for Co-op Survival horror games and this is one 
 out of the so few that is actually pretty good. Its what the zombie hunters like: cheesy reason 
 for zombie invasion, all the cool/obviously creepy places to fight them (hospitals, corn fields, 
 etc.) , and the cool choice of weapons. (and you always have like 1 clip) Always hear footsteps 
 that arn't yours, always checking your back, almost overwhelming amount of attackers, I could go 
 on and on. And since "City of the Dead" has yet to be picked up by anyone (awaiting publish) , 
 this is the best you're going to get. (Patch 1.1 for PC released/Fixes and adds some cool stuff)
 
  
  Bottom line is, if you want to kick some zombie butt, this is deffinetly one you want to grab out 
 of the bargin bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BobtheJedi
Rating: 1.1
Date: Apr 16, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Despite my loving of zombie games, this game isn't even deserving of being used a coaster. With 
 horrible graphics, idiotic enemys, and bad gameplay, Land of the Dead: Road to Fiddlers Green is 
 an abysmal game.
  
  You play as Jed, a hobo-like farmer that somehow missed that the world is being taken over by zombies. 
 By collecting craploads of guns and stuff, he must fight off the zombies and reach the haven of 
 Fiddlers Green AKA Pittsburg. 
  
  Problem is, the zombies are totally retarded. Normally this is considered natural, but the zombies 
 in this game make Resident Evil's zombies look smart. These idiots don't even know how to die right. 
 Common gameplay problem: You have a revolver and see a zombie, so you start plugging rounds into 
 its brain. You fire 60 revolver rounds, then unload a **** of rifle rouns into its brain, and the 
 bastard will just stand there, totally unaffected until a stray bullet hit him in, say, the finger. 
 He will then collapse like you just kicked him in the nuts, which is what you should do to the 
 developers for making this so stupid.
  
  Another problem is zombies popping out of nowhere. I don't mean "poppign out of windows to scare 
 you", I mean "popping out of thin air to irritate the hell out of you". This is so moronic that 
 you will just run through enemy infested areas and walk carefully through totally abandoned areas, 
 just waiting for a zombie to pop out of the sky.
  
  At least they sound like zombies. The sound is the olny good thing that I found in this game, from 
 zombie moans to a shotgun shot. But then they will get so repetitive you will end up turning off 
 the sound to play.
  
  Then again, if you play and actually enjoy this game, you are a totall moron. You want a better 
 FPS zombie game, go get Resident Evil: Survivor. That sucks too, but not as bad as this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x9mastachief9x
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 13, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  The horrible damage system makes the game hard. Enemies spawning on top of you? This is 2006 (or 
 2005 when it came out) not 2001. It was okay when TS2 did it, but it's old and bad now. The graphics 
 arn't that good. Also when they said ''It's a multiplayer game" I was like wow! I can't wait to play 
 it. Now when it came out, I regret wasting 4.99 on renting it. It should be a buck. The multiplayer 
 is horrible. It's a complete waste of time. Go play Halo Zero if you're bored, it's free and fun. This 
 game should be free, no one should spend money on it at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flashtek
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 13, 2006 9:12 am PT
Review:  Land of the Dead sounds like a great game but isn't. Very rudimentary for the game play standards 
 of today. Graphics were not the best, all though the rag doll effect and damage visuals were very 
 good. Blowing the legs off a zombie and it still comes after you is great. This is at best a mindless 
 shoot'em up, hack a slash. It was refreshing having a multiplayer feature which included the AI 
 zombies. Good array of weapons choices, including grenades. This game is very easy to learn, and 
 is extremely short. Don't waste a lot of money on this one wait for clearance sale. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mule-Boy
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 24, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Land of the Dead is acctually a pretty good game, it has it's ups and downs but it is not crap 
 and it is not terrible! I think gamespot shouldn't of given such a bad review. The game is cool 
 because of the zombies, the good variety of wepons and the spooky gameplay! I was surprised that 
 the zombies can smash through doors. I was chasing a zombie and I went to open the door then is 
 smashed through it from the other side!
  One other thing, so many people complained about the 'hit-system'. People say that when you do 
 a head shot it blows the zombies arm off. It doesn't do that, i does blow the zombies head off 
 and anyone who complains about that must be really crappy at aiming a gun. 
  
  The Good Things:
  Cool Guns
  Spooky Atmoshpere
  Melee Wepons (e. g. golf club, axe, pipe ect.)
 
  Replay Value
  Good Graphics
  
  The Bad Things:
  The quiet game music can be a bit lame but it still adds to the atmosphere
  More people need 
 to play on multiplayer
  Some very tiny glitches but nothing out of the ordinary
  The environment is not moveable (e. g. you can't push objects or shove a chair against a door)
 
  The zombie A. I. can be better but it is still good!
  
  Give this game a try! It does very much grow on you!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinhaldecoina
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 22, 2006 12:54 pm PT
Review:  im not criticate the good people of game spot but i dont understand whay this game have so low 
 points, i have the game and i think the game are preaty cool. its true this isnt look like a recent 
 game after we see the graphics and the artificial intelegence and severel things ,but give me a 
 break mens 2.1 is not what this game deserve. its scary. have great guns, and i seen poor graphics 
 then this ,after all i have seen worsth games then this with better points ,this makes me the conclusion, the 
 points you guys give to al games is not the real review. sorry dont take me wrong but we see the 
 litle exemple the king kong, i think its game for 9 points and you guys give 8, the medal of honor 
 pacific assault its good but game for 8.8 its too mutch, its repetitive ,its booring, etc. another 
 example ,a game to this points you guys give to the land of the dead its directly too the delta 
 force extreme for example ,and you guys give 8 .... comon guys compare the games wen you do the 
 points ... tanks .. sorry for the ingles ... im portugues 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalek301
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 19, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  Land of the Dead by George A Romero, one of the greatest I have ever see and will ever see. The 
 film is what got me interested in the game, after the review by this site I was not so sure, but 
 went and downloaded the demo. After playing for a few minutes I was thinking 'Gamespot is stupid, 
 this is great!' The AI isn't that bad, the zombies move, sound, attack and look exactly like they 
 should, breaking open doors, moving towards gunshots etc. The graphics overall aren't that bad 
 either, the scenery looks pretty good as well as the zombies, like I've mentioned as well as the 
 main character also. The weapons work well in the way that they blow chunks out of the enemies, 
 it's great. The only thing about weapons is that the melee ones are pretty rubbish, even a fire 
 axe won't take a head off without two or three hits. The sounds are good too, with the atmospheric 
 music and the groans of the living dead really bring the tension to life. This with the only fault 
 of a dodgy hit system, where you lean to side and are paralysed after being hit, which is pretty 
 annoying. It's also really cool when zombies crowd around you and feast on your innerds after you 
 have been killed, yum, liver! That's my review of Land of the Dead and in my opinion, it's just 
 like being in the film. And I think that Gamespot is wrong this time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmy5555555
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 6, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  this guy is asking to die but it is a fun game if you are scared of it dont play it im realy not 
 scared so its just funny people should realy buy this game for fun and its a good buget game its 
 $24 
  
  Video quality
  
  grafics
  10 out of 10 because they actualy made the clothing move its not attached to thair body
  
  
 plane video
  
  5-10 its ok but you should play with them they are actualy ok but thair is not enuf detail
  
 
  SOUND
  
  7-10
  people should get it for sound it is amazing to hear them grown and mown and the guns are realistic 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harryiscool
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  I thought this was excellent it incorperated everything a Romero fan could have hoped for. Graphics 
 are great, sounds are good and gameplay is superb. If you are a zombie fan, this is a must buy! 
 As far as i'm concerned this is the best zombie game out for the PC currently and most probably 
 will be the the time being. It also offers great multiplayer and co-op functions, allowing you 
 and your friends to fight off the endless hordes of the undead!
  The only possible thing one could criticise if the single player mode length, as it took me around 
 6 or 7 hours to complete, whcih i suppose could be considered as being relatively short taking 
 into account that it is a Romero film based game. However the whole game has great atmospehere 
 which more than makes up for the short single player mode along with the multiplayer which is highly 
 addictive!
  
  That leaves me with only one thing left to say... aim for the head! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cronos262
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  I'm really laughing at all the complaints about a supossedly "broken" damage system! 
  
  I had the system down in a couple of hours.... I knew which weapons did what... And most of all... 
 I knew where to aim to get the desired effect! Yes folks! Believe it or not... The damage system 
 is not broken... You just need to know how to aim basically!
  
  Trust me on that one!
  
  As for the rest of the game. On all levels I felt it was decent! It's not groundbreaking or 
 great on any level other than finally we have a decent piece of Romeroresque videogaming here. 
 
  
  I didn't have a problem with the realistic control system. Yes your not as agile as a superhero, 
 and can't jump over a 20ft ravine, nor can you run endlessly without getting tired. And I actually 
 respect that the designers made it this way! 
  
  The levels... Mixed bag in my opinion... Some are very good IE the final level Fiddlers Green (Sniping 
 zombies from the skywalk rocked!) ... Some good... A couple are very bad IE Level 2 - The Cornfield 
 Maze! The boss situation is weird! There's maybe 1 or 2 single zombies that I guess could be considered 
 bosses to some extent... Mostly at end of levels you'll get a swarm of the undead to deal with 
 though. 
  
  Graphics? Nothing Mind Blowing... But besides the crap textures here in there in The Corn Field 
 Maze I felt everything was just fine! 
  
  Fun Factor? I found it fun! In fact it occupied me for a few full runs when I got this way back 
 when it came out... And I'm ready to dust it off and give it another whirl. 
  
  While I consider the game overall to fairly be a about a 7 or 7.5... I can't say that about all 
 200+ PC games I own have attracted me back for another whirl! I gave the game a 10 rating in order 
 to help average out all those SOFT gaming wannabes who gave it a 1 just because they can't even 
 shoot a gun in a videogame! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor333333
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 18, 2006 4:08 pm PT
Review:  i found the demo was quite amusing the first 30 times i completed it and i still do, it has decent 
 graphics and i recommend shooting off their legs and 1 of their arms, but then be careful not to 
 walk too close. if you want it harder then adjust the difficulty (i think you can adjust it) or 
 try finishing it with no damage taken. i did and i have 1 piece of advice, stay away from the zombies 
 with the green mist around them. or another way to make it harder is to use only melee weapons 
 i recommend the hammer (its fast) or the fire axe (the draw back is that you find it half way through 
 the demo) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CristiS
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 15, 2006 2:34 am PT
Review:  Oh my... This was one of the worse games i have ever played. I mean what's the fun in shooting 
 slow stupid zombies?! Although the beginning was quite promising, the follow up was extremely boring. 
 And one more thing. It's all about one strategy. Keep your distance. Do that and the game will 
 be a walk in the park. 
  There is are three parts that are interesting though. There is a cornfield area that is pretty 
 scary because visibility is very low and you can end up facing a pack of zombies, there is a sniping 
 section and a mini-gun section, but the last two are classics. 
  Good thing it is short though. I finished the game in one day. 
  Graphics and sound are pretty 
 common. Nothing exciting about them..... 
  Anyway if you want a really bad game that you will finish in a few hours and you want to regret 
 the money spent on it go to your nearest store quickly and buy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rippanation
Rating: 2.8
Date: Feb 13, 2006 5:47 am PT
Review:  Well just about anything and everything went wrong for this game, it could of been so much more 
 but after playing it for a while you kind of get the feel that the game designers either lost interest 
 in it or major cutbacks began, its a shame really because if a bit more effort had been made this 
 could of been a halfway decent game and i really do mean only halfway decent. brainbox games and 
 groove games where certainly not a winning formula for this game, i think the release date must 
 of been a marketing ploy for people buying it just before christmas and not realizing what a ghastly 
 mistake they had made until christmas morning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j1r1a
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 12, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  My favorite games are FPS and this game is different than doom type games and serious sam type 
 games. The zombies just come out and come after you slowly but also fast enough to scare you so 
 you have to kill them or be killed. I like the axe to chop thier arms or legs off. The loading 
 the gun is quite a panic because you have to keep backing up out of their reach until you can shoot 
 them. Very immersive playing in the dark. The blood squirting out after loping off an arm is funny 
 and I like when you chop off a leg and they try to come after you crawling on the floor. I was 
 watching my son play and a zombie had an axe. So I would assume the zombies can eventually use 
 weapons. Exelent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperScott3000
Rating: 1.3
Date: Feb 10, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  
  anybody that has played this and liked it, either you have a computer from the 1990s and you cant 
 play any game that has come out in the past 15 years or you're 5 and half years old. 
  
  this is the single worst game i have ever played. i'm 25 and i work in a video game store i've 
 played damn near every game to come out in the past 15 years. SINGLE WORST GAME EVER. (except for 
 ET on atari2600) 
  
  this game is beyond broke. 
  
  let me also say i'm a HUGE zombie fan, anything that remotely has zombies or walking dead or anything 
 of the like I'M IN! which is why i bought this game. i really really wanted to like this game too, 
 and i kid you not i played it for a total of 4 minutes. 
  
  there is no reason to play this game longer than that. 
  
  i feel sorry for alex having to 
 review this thing and play it for longer than my mind numbing 4 minutes. 
  
  i've had people come in to buy it and i point them to blockbuster to rent the damn thing only for 
 them to come back and tell me "THANK YOU FOR NOT LETTING ME BUY THAT HORRIBLE GAME"
  
  Please.
  
  Don't Buy, Watch, Think about, Play, Touch, or Look at this game. 
  
  -SuperScott3000 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dawn_Patrol
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 28, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  The mystery to me is why is this game using a graphics engine that is around 6 or 7 years old. 
 When it could have been using a little more modern engine. That aside though it is a not too bad 
 a game to play.
  
  It has it's flaws which are not enough zombies in the game to tackle as it were. Unless you use 
 a mod file called LOTD X3. It adds around 10 or more zombie's to each area of the game, and that's 
 on top of what you already have. X1 and X3 are good mod files to use on the game. Stay away from 
 X2 mod file though as it has a glitch in the "theater" level where an invincible zombie appears 
 after smashing through a boarded up doorway. X1 and X3 are fine as I have finished the game with 
 each of them installed.
  You just unzip the X MOD's to the "levels" folder in the directory and over-write the files in 
 that folder and start the game new or from a save file you have.
  
  This adds a lot more to the one player mode, it gives you more combat and it gives the whole game 
 a more "Romero feel to it". You feel as if you are out numbered at least 15 to 1 in most areas. 
 The mod file gives you enough ammo to use as more of it is lying about. But your work is still 
 cut out for you.
  
  Enough of the mod files though, the game as standard is an average game. It is playable first time 
 round as it is. But nothing more. There is not really enough to keep it going after the first time, 
 unless you use those mod files I mentioned. That way it doubles the life span.
  
  Zombies look decent enough with the graphics that are being used, my only complaint is the crawling 
 zombie. There is no way that they should be able to move as quickly as that while scuttling across 
 the floor. This is the only complaint against the zombies. I am thankful there is not an "End Of 
 Level Boss Section" every new area you go to. Boss levels kind of spoil some games. This game gets 
 another + point due to it not having boss levels. I noticed in the sound effects that if the zombie 
 gets too close, some of them try to take a bite out of you (which is expected I know) but it is 
 the sound effect of the teeth hitting together as it tries to take a bite, it is so real if you 
 listen close enough. It's nothing big, but I just thought I'd point out that neat little sound 
 effect.
  They should sort out the whole zombie Vs Bullet thing in the next one. Most guns should cap a zombie 
 no problem. Instead we are left to pump bullets into them like no tomorrow with the puny rifle 
 and glock. Even though the glock is good for when you get cornered or are near death in a narrow 
 alley or something as it is quick at firing. Every weapon should be able to so serious damage, 
 some more than others. But all should be able to dish it out. Head shots in "one" or "two" hits 
 maximum, not three or four to some zombies. This flaw isn't that bad, but it needs sorting a little 
 as zombie's dont go down in three or four bullets (not to the head) . To make up for the one or 
 two bullets to the head to kill a zombie there should be an option to add more of them into the 
 game, not make them tougher by taking more hits, just add more of them as that is enough of a challenge.
 
  
  The music in the game is good, infact it is probably the best part of the entire game. It makes 
 the game feel creepy, I play it late at time, lights out and I use headphones as well which by 
 the way adds to the whole atmosphere thing. I used the "Dawn Of The Dead main theme" for the police 
 station roof top sniper mission, it works perfectly with it. I then used the entire "Day Of The 
 Dead" soundtrack with the game as well and it works exceptionally well too. The music the game 
 has works so well with it that I have a hard time choosing to use the games music, or my own Zombie 
 music :) .
  
  I like the over all vibe the game gives off I must admit. It feels like you are alone in the Land 
 Of The Dead, with no one to help you but yourself. Just the way I like my situations in games, 
 total isolation... well for about 90% of the time anyway.
  
  A fun game not to be taken too seriously, but it is not as good as it could have been sadly. Oh 
 well never mind, let's hope they get it right next time round. :) It is a grower I must admit, 
 I liked it first time round and even now I wont part with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emoslayer
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 27, 2006 4:15 am PT
Review:  I'm not usually known to play horror games, but I decided to buy this game because I liked the 
 movie.
  
  It isn't terrifying, but it scared me.
  
  Firstly, the storyline is pretty good. A farmer discovers that the zombie virus is spreading across 
 America, and gets on his way to Fiddler's Green, a large barricaded fortress. Not amazing, but 
 good anyway.
  
  Secondly, the graphics. The graphics are quite good for the price. Every zombie is different, with 
 different wounds and movements. 
  
  Thirdly, the physics. The physics are quite dissapointing. Everyone knows that the best way to 
 kill a zombie is to destroy the brain or remove the head. But, in LOTD: RTFG, it takes 2-4 shots 
 with your rifle! And if you shoot their legs, they'll spin around in the air and fall straight 
 back down, dead!
  
  Next, the multiplayer. There are several multiplayer modes, including team deathmatch and capture 
 the flag. Not only are there other players, but there's zombies everywhere as well! The multiplayer 
 is enjoyable.
  
  Lastly, the sound. The sound adds to the atmosphere, with crows crowing, zombies moaning, and realistic 
 weapon sounds. Pretty good!
  
  So, in general, this is a good game. Worth the $39.00 NZD I payed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzN_DiSaStEr
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 26, 2006 7:06 pm PT
Review:  gameplay..
  bleh.. its a lot more fun if you have friends, in impossible mode. it feels good to have everyday 
 items and beat the crap out of the undead. the longer you stay in the game, the more fun it is. 
 early on, the zombies come in small numbers and u can one-shot kill them with the revolver or shotgun. 
 the melee weapons are more fun, as it gives the game a survive-the-horror feeling. on the flipside, 
 its hard to enjoy this game if ur not in impossible mode. even if u have a hard time killing a 
 zombie, u can pick them off slowly and u will barely get hurt. the maps are real small and are 
 not that vivid, and where the zombies spawn are ridiculous.
  
  graphics..
  it can look good, SOMETIMES. in some cinematics you can see the detail of jack's face, not that 
 i like him like that, but its good to know some parts of this game attempts to give vivid moments. 
 the bad thing is.. the physics suck booty and the zombies beat the crap out of the ground to eat 
 you when ur 2 feet away.
  
  sound..
  some parts of the game really sound disgusting, and makes it good. bashing a zombie or chopping 
 one makes u feel like you wanna kill some more. its satisfying to know that killing a zombie makes 
 a great gushy sound. but yes, there is a crap side. the guns sound crappy and so do the zombies. 
 the zombies dont give any kind of creepy groans (they mostly go "bah" and "gah") and the guns dont 
 sound like your shooting a gun.
  
  value..
  if you have a few or more friends that play this with you, then it should be pretty fun. its a 
 good come-away from the hillbilly u play as in singleplayer, and you dont have to hear his voice. 
 its fun to screw around with the zombies sometimes or using them to ur advantage in a pvp.
  
  my tilt..
  its good for 20 bucks. if it was 40 or more, i wouldnt get it. if u do choose 
 to buy this game, make sure to invite ur friends to play as well.
  
  see ya there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superstudpuppy0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 21, 2006 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Man this game is preety mouch in its 70-80 because its good bad graphics good game play its scarry 
 fun excting somting good for everyone so please anyone who have not played this game go out and 
 rent it to try it and if u like u buy the dam thing :) .
  
  Here are some tips on surviving this game
  1. Dont wast ammo use head shots to save ammo
  2. Find 
 and pick up all ammo and health.
  3. Dont kill all monsters run and save ammo.
  4. Shoot them in the head to kill them faster.
  5. Do not wast ammo like bazooka or shotgun or 
 gernades on one little whimpy creature save ur ammo.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Addzi
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 19, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  I was looking forward to this game, I really was. All of the screenshots and moody preview movies 
 excited me, as this is the first real zombie based game for the PC.
  When I managed to play it, I was at first impressed with the combat and the scripted tension in 
 the first couple of levels in the game, however, from there the faults are all too obvious.
  The hit locations on the zombies definitely needed some tweaking. Some zombies were reacting like 
 they were shot in the legs when I hit them in the head. This has now been improved in the patch.
 
  
  I won't go into the story as there isn't much of a plot. You play Jack, a farmer living on the 
 outskirts of the city. His character is obviously as stab at originality for game heroes, but the 
 redneck voice is enough to make you want to throw yourself at the zombies.
  
  The graphics are too dark for my liking, especially without some kind of flashlight or flare. I 
 suppose it adds to the tension, but this isn't supposed to be all tension, right?
  
  The weapons in LOTD are varied and sound powerful. In fact, the weapons are one of the best things 
 about this game. The revolver and shotgun are my particular favourites.
  
  There is quite a bit of tension in the early missions as there isn't much ammo for your weak .22 
 rifle or the head popping revolver, so you need to rely on your fists or melee weapons like shovels, 
 hammers and baseball bats.
  
  There are neat gimmicks in the game that make it a little better to play. For example, if you close 
 a door behind you, zombies will try and break them down, tearing one chunk out at a time.
  
  Ah yes, zombies. Indeed, they are supposed to be dumb. But if a zombie smelled your warm human 
 flesh, would he really stand in a dark corner facing the wall, getting shot at repeatedly with 
 no real reaction? According to the films, no.
  
  This game is fun for the first few levels, but you will tire of it before you reach the 5 hour 
 mark. Rent it if you can, or just don't bother.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zweihanderhero
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 10, 2006 3:00 am PT
Review:  I have a rule, a kinda stupid rule, but a rule I try to follow nonetheless. I MUST play every single 
 game that has a zombie in it. Thats how I got Land of the Dead. I love the Living Dead quadrilogy 
 (Day of the Dead was kinda iffy though) and seeing a game based on my favourite zombie series made 
 me almost cry. Well, I did cry after I played the game, but thats for a totally different reason.
 
  
  You are Jack, a hillbilly who suddenly finds himself being the prime target thousands of zombies. 
 I figured zombies would have better taste than to go after hicks, but maybe the lust for brains 
 drove them to desperation. Not that hicks have brains per se, but to each his own. One day, Jack 
 finds a stranger standing in his backyard. Jack, being the nice guy he is, investigates and finds 
 that the stranger is a zombie (bet you never saw that one coming!) . Thats where the game starts.
 
  
  I use the term game loosely here folks, as the term I would like to describe Land of the Dead 
 would never be allowed to print. Im gonna cut to the chase and say that Land of the Dead is an 
 absolute mess. Braindead AI, superbly unrealistic physics, crappy level design and a whole list 
 of unmentionables team up to cause you more grief than you ever imagined possible. Honestly, I 
 have never played a game so bad!
  
  Lets start with the basics. Zombies die (ok, maybe cease to function would be a better word since 
 they undead and all) when they get shot in the damn head (or decapitate, or skewered or burned 
 or whatever) . Books say it, movies show it and video games prove it. Obviously, the developers 
 of this game have been living under a rock for the last gazillion years, with no access to the 
 outside world. Cap a zombie in the noggin and he/she will still keep on coming towards you without 
 any ill effect whatsoever. That to me is a major no-no. You have the gall to base your game on 
 George Romeros film but dont have the courtesy to acknowledge his rule of zombies. Shame on you!
 
  
  To make matters worse, hit detection completely goes out the window most of the times when youre 
 wielding guns. Ive shot zombies in the arms and they act as if Ive blown their legs off. I once 
 shot a zombie thats standing near another zombie in the head and have the OTHER zombies head 
 explode while the one I was aiming at slowly came towards me. Ive had battles with zombies in 
 which numerous shots to the head did nothing but a grazing blow to the chest killed it.
  
  Strike two comes in the form of the AI. Youd expect zombies to be braindead, and in this game 
 they truly are. Strangely, thats not a good thing. How do you feel fear in being chased relentlessly 
 by a horde of undead cannibals when they cant get past an open doorway? I once had 4 zombies chase 
 me right up to an open doorway and get stuck there, standing in a straight line. Whats the use 
 of surviving against opponents so dumb? Hell, one of them even got stuck in the wall and remained 
 there even after I tried to kill it. Like the first point I made, the developers seem to take great 
 delight in eschewing Romeros zombie rules. In the Land of the Dead movie, the zombies are evolving. 
 Theyre becoming smarter. Hell, here theyre becoming dumber if anything.
  
  Third strike and youre out as the saying goes and the final strike comes in the form of the horrid 
 level design. The stuff you do in the game makes no sense whatsoever. Why the hell do I need to 
 keep punching zombies in the face? Why the hell are my weapons useless? Why do I need to cross 
 a haystack maze? Why would ANYBODY make a haystack maze in the first place? When did zombies learn 
 to teleport? All those questions I guarantee you will have and the last one is arguably the most 
 hilarious one of them all. Taking the concept of spawn points to a radically new level, it seems 
 as if every single action you do gets you a free gift of zombies. Open a door and zombies come 
 get you. Take a weapon and zombies come get you. Go up some stairs and zombies come get you. In 
 the open areas, I kept looking up to the skies hoping to see the plane where the zombies seem to 
 be parachuting from.
  
  For a PC game, Land of the Dead looks as if it came from the late 90s. Seriously! Blocky zombies, 
 plain textures, clipping in a lot of placewhen in MAX resolution. Honestly, I didnt even bother 
 to turn down the detail to look at it on the low end of the resolution rainbow. I think itd probably 
 leave emotional scarring or something. Like the graphics, the music in the game is absolutely horrendous. 
 Note that I said MUSIC, not musical scores or music tracks, just music. As in one song. Nay, 
 it cant even be called that. Its just a loop of a four beat composition. Imagine John Carpenters 
 The Thing theme song and repeat it till the end of time.
  
  I could continue to rant (and do I have a LOT more stuff to **** about) but space constraints limit 
 me to those points above. With all due honesty, I wouldnt recommend this game even if it was free.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skwire
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 5, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  This is my first review, so don't be to critical.
  
  I recommend this game for anybody who hasn't seen or seen "Land of the Dead", cause this game tells 
 a little about the whole story of the George Romero film "Land of the Dead". This game talks about 
 how a normal farmer help a guy name Kaufman (near the end of the game) annihilate the zombies in 
 Fiddlers Green and thats how he ruled the city in the movie of "Land of the Dead".
  
  The graphics are good during gameplay but the animation of the cut scenes are amazing. The game 
 give u feel that ur actually in the game and with the music it gives u a more scary feel of gameplay. 
 The voice acting is good as well.
  
  The value of this game is 19.95$ plus taxes, a very good price. Ignore the negative reviews cause 
 they don't know nothing about horror games, since this game is the second best horror game that 
 i have played (first Doom 3) . The levels are short but its fun to blast the zombies especially 
 during the last level.
  
  I hope there will be another game of this name but with a different story and a different character
 
  
  Mob-g
  
  if u need contact me for questions about the game e-mail me at skwire@hotmail. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pseudolus
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 1, 2006 4:16 am PT
Review:  Oh my God, how does this game have something to do with the great George A. Romero? This game should 
 be the electronic complement of Troma's "Redneck Zombies". Starting by the main character and going 
 down to the cliched, cheesy commonplaces and situations, this game seems a total self-parody. And 
 the sad thing is that the developers didn't try to be funny. Of course, the game fails miserably 
 at being serious or scary. To be honest, there are some brief, interesting moments: the first minutes 
 of the game aren't that bad, and there are some little details reminiscent of Romero's masterpieces, 
 like the moving dead bags in the hospital. But all in all, this game doesn't add anything to the 
 real classics of the genre, say 'Alone in the Dark', 'Resident Evil' and 'Silent Hill'.
  
  In the technical side, this game is outdated. The graphics are correct but not really good. The 
 music is repetitive and irritating. The average level seems just another labyrinth with a little 
 detail or two two remember that you are in a hospital or a police station. Quite below the standard 
 for FPS games today. The weapons behave in an unrealistic manner, the impact-detection routines 
 seem useless, and the interface needs a lot of work. As far as I can say, the 1.1 patch doesn't 
 really fix anything of this. To make it short: this game does not excel, is not even bright, in 
 any aspect.
  
  In brief: if you are a Romero's fan, or a zombie movies fan, this game won't offer much to you. 
 It is not scary, it does not have an interesting argument, it is not technically bright. The zombies 
 are pathetic, not scary: you'll find yourself kicking zombie ass just like in the film 'Braindead', 
 but with almost no gore at all. It's funny at first, but in the long run it gets really boring. 
 You wind up running in a random 3D labyrinth, whacking zombies, with some linear, easy objectives 
 that even a lower primate would have no problems in accomplishing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: man_child23
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 29, 2005 6:27 am PT
Review:  Seems like people either really hate this game, or defend it like its their own. I guess I'm in 
 the middle - some parts of this game really ain't that bad. Its fun to shoot the zombies, and its 
 got a real creepy feel to it that kept me wanting to actually finish the game. Now the bad: just 
 about everything else. The missions get a little repititive, too much time is spent searching around 
 in cabinets in some areas. Some of it just looks so dull, and predictable. In the end, I enjoyed 
 it and I am glad I bought it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garrettreen
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 25, 2005 7:22 am PT
Review:  Good game overall but a little repetitive i liked the fact that it offers a little bit of a story 
 to go along with the movie. this game is a great deal for $20. this is easily one of the best horror 
 games todate and the best part is is that its an fps!! truly you should go out and buy this game 
 today because for this price it is an unbeatable bargin. go land of the dead and go george a romero 
 woot (100 words lol) word word word word word word word word word word word word word word 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: townsenda1
Rating: 2.3
Date: Dec 23, 2005 10:50 pm PT
Review:  Well if your like me and if your reading this you probably are, then you love a good horror game. 
 I'm really into to these kinds of games now a days so I thought I would give this game a chance. 
 My thinking was that with all the horror games out there knowing that the godfather of horror movies 
 has a game based on his movie I was expecting greatness. What we got was this wannabe game that 
 really doesn't deliver. This is the first game that I actually wanted to be eatten alive. First 
 of all the A. I. is just the worset. It seems that zombies only have basic motor skills and have 
 one goal in their undead minds and that is eatting your flesh. The problem is that being a zombie 
 means that they are yet to be smart enough to walk through an opened doorway. Most of the time 
 I found that a good hideing place is all you really need. Next, the zombies seem to just pop out 
 of thin air. And when I mean thin air I mean just that. I would just blink and a zombie would be 
 right in front of me. To defend yourself you are given a number of melee attacks both hard and 
 light. The light ones are worhtless. So you have to use the strong attack. The developers make 
 the movements so exaggerated that I can't help but laugh everytime I do it. The game also gives 
 you a lot of different weapons to choose from but the targetting system is just as weird. It supposed 
 to be limb sensitive meaning that if you shoot a zombie in the leg he should move like he is really 
 getting shot there. The problem is that sometimes this didn't happen. So you could shoot a zombie 
 in the stomach and his head would explode while a shot in the head wouldn't really do anything. 
 It became very frustrating. The game looks pretty good. The noises and audio gave me that creepy 
 feeling, but without better gameplay I say this game is a complete bust. I guess after playing 
 games like RE and Silent Hill I was expecting something that could compete with them. I would stay 
 away from this game. I'm just thankful I borrowed this from a friend and didn't buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jondavisx
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 23, 2005 9:22 pm PT
Review:  I Had a good time with this one. Its not perfect, the game could have been better but I still find 
 myself having fun while playing it. The graphics average nothing to really brag about here, and 
 Story line is pretty weak. Yet what brings me into the game is the survival horror action. The 
 level design is kind of bland but still isn't horrible. However, I know this game isn't for everyone. 
 It is basically hack and slash fun with zombies. I don't know about the rest of you guys, but I 
 just love killing zombies. Once I beat the game I probably will not go back and play it again. 
 Mainly because I just got Resident evil 4. Which I probably should Looks amazing. I guess I would 
 only recommend this one to die hard Zombie freaks like myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minbel
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 22, 2005 9:41 am PT
Review:  I don't even know where to start to flame this game but as an experienced XBOX gamer I can tell 
 everyone to pass on it. Why? Well, this is probably one of the worst if not the worst games ever 
 created. Graphics, sound, story, controls and pretty much everything else is horrible and not even 
 worth being mentioned to be one of the best games ever like some people mentioned here. I have 
 wasted 2 hours of my precious time on that "masterpiece" and the only thing that compensates for 
 that is the fact that I didn't pay a cent for it. WORST GAME EVER!!! PEOPLE - DO NOT BUY, RENT 
 OR DOWNLOAD IT. DON'T WASTE YOUR TIME! Play Prince of Persia trilogy instead - truly an amazing 
 game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chilidog_128
Rating: 4.8
Date: Dec 21, 2005 12:30 pm PT
Review:  I was very excited when I purchased this game. I had read several less-than-enthusiastic reviews, 
 but figured that, even if the graphics and game-engine were sub-par, what could be more fun than 
 shooting zombies in the head. I was wrong.
  The graphics are beyond dated, the engine is tedious, the areas are confining, and the zombies 
 make coma patients seem exciting. The system the game uses to determine aim and bullet trajectory 
 is confused at the best of times, the textures are faded, and the freaking character WALKS as the 
 default. Overall, the experience was displeasing.
  I was almost able to forgive all my previous complaints, and play through simply for the challenge 
 and experience. Honestly, the character is pathetic and ammo scarce enough for the game to be a 
 challenge for a die-hard zombie hater. However, I made the mistake of picking up a book called 
 "Zombie Kung-Fu," which is apparently actually a melee weapon, a few minutes into the game. The 
 game lost all challenge at this point, as 2-taps of the right mouse button would down any zombie. 
 I thought zombies needed to be decapitated, but a few punches seems to deactivate these ones. 
 
  Rather than simply put down the book and resort to using bats and bullets, I put down the game 
 in disgust. A very disappointing effort by the designers, overall, considering the state of the 
 industry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fixer293
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 19, 2005 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Let me just say I bought the game and really enjoy it, Its a great title for the price it is, I 
 love the physics of the zombies, and the simplicity of the gameplay. I have to say that I for one 
 commend the makers and Mr Romero
  It is a great game and well worth the price.
  The only thing I did not like is the fact when you load your weapon even though you only needed 
 two shotgun shells he still loads 4. but hey I loved this game and recommend it to anyone wanting 
 to bust some zombies up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jet2x5
Rating: 1.4
Date: Dec 18, 2005 10:57 am PT
Review:  Boy, where do I start for Land of the Dead: Road to Fiddler's Green? This was just a total waste 
 of my time that I cannot believe I actually went through and finished it.
  
  The graphics in this game were horrible; the zombies did not really look like zombies, and it was 
 not even scary at all. The zombies missing body parts didn't look like... zombies missing body parts; 
 they looked like some graphical glitch that wasn't displaying their arm or legs. Even the video 
 scenes were kind of bad. For some reason it felt like watching the cinematics from Area 51, but 
 Area 51 had pretty decent ones. The level design and look was horrible too; considering they tried 
 to make you go through as many mazes and zombie hordes as possible to achieve your objective that 
 would otherwise be simple to finish had it not been for gigantic boxes in your path.
  
  The sound effects were another terrible factor to this terrible game. Don't even get me started 
 on the "music" as it was not music. It was just ear-bursting madness. I can't even give a positive 
 comment on the sounds.
  
  The storyline: well, you're a farmer. You fight zombies. You go through many wasteful levels. You 
 fight more zombies. That's about it. It's to be expected for a zombie game, but somehow they managed 
 to screw it up even more by adding in worthless things like Fiddler's Green and such. I won't go 
 into depth; you'll be able to tell what I mean when you finish the game. But I beg you, don't do 
 that. Don't even play this.
  
  Now, the gameplay. I cannot believe a game had so much wrong with it. The physics were terrible. 
 I mean come on, it was just UGLY. Compare them to F. E. A. R. and you have Atari physics. You know 
 why? Because the Atari had no physics engines in its games. The zombies flopped around madly even 
 when "dead" again. I don't know what they did wrong here, but the sensors and others things... did 
 not work. They were busted. It was like someone cracked the engines open, gutted them, closed 'em 
 back up, and tossed it at some zombie horde; then they proceeded to take the remains and put it 
 in this so called "game".
  
  Finally, the A. I. was probably one of the worst parts to the game. You think zombies are stupid 
 right? You don't know stupid zombies until you play this game. For some unknown reason, the zombies 
 cannot follow you through an open door, but they can climb over alleywall walls and burst out of 
 fiery trash heaps. Amazing, isn't it? The responses of the zombies were pitiful... and where was 
 the ever so classic biting of heads and such? The zombies were so stupid I could be surrounded 
 and still survived without being touched once. Good Lord, please somebody teach these zombies how 
 to be zombies.
  
  So in short, this game was a total letdown, a waste, trash, crud, utter worthlessness. Do NOT, 
 I repeat, do NOT even attempt to rent this game. Despite many "rent it first, you'll like it" comments, 
 this game does not deserve being rented or bought. It deserves to be burned. Someone should find 
 every last copy of it on earth and throw it into a fire pit, then run it over with a bulldozer, 
 and do any other torturous method to destroy this crap. Don't be fooled by my 10 hours or less 
 playing time; that's how long it took me to finish this waste of a game.
  
  Land of the Dead: Road to Fiddler's Green should never see the light of day or the dark of night 
 again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tentera
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 16, 2005 8:10 pm PT
Review:  I've tried Doom before and played Wolfenstein. Both were really scary, especially for Wolfenstein 
 in the Catacombs stage and final stage at Castle Wolfenstein. But, this game... man... you've got 
 no fanciful weapons like the BFG 9000 or rocket launchers. You have Molotov cocktails and grenades. 
 Even then, these creatures keep coming. The atmosphere itself is very eerie. It looks normal, but 
 you never know what lurks around that corner.
  
  You are constantly worried about whether you are in good health or have enough ammo. In short, 
 you keep asking yourself: will I survive? Believe me, this game really puts you on the edge of 
 your toes. 
  
  Here are a few survival tips:
  1. Stay sharp. Keep your eyes and ears open at all times.
  2. Watch your back. There could be 
 something behind you.
  3. Move slowly in unknown areas.
  4. Beware of corpses lying on the ground. For all you know, it might jump up and attack!
  5. 
 If there's ammo or first-aid on the ground, pick it up. It's always good to have some health and 
 ammo, then none at all.
  6. When up against a whole lot of those living dead, run back and shoot from your new position.
 
  7. Keep moving to and fro. It will make it harder for the living dead to catch you.
  8. When using the shotgun, aim low. The shots will easily blow the creatures away.
  9. When using 
 the revolver, aim carefully at the head. One shot from it will put these creatures down permanently. 
 
  10. When you have blown one of the creature's legs off, shoot at one of its arms. It will go into 
 a fit and hurt other creatures, damage doors or you!
  11. Always, always use Molotov cocktails and grenades only when they are bunched up together. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nimeran
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 14, 2005 2:04 pm PT
Review:  At first i had hope for this title, it had all the makings of being a fine and dandy title. Multiplayer, 
 and online mulitpalyer to be at that. Shootable body parts that are SUPPOSED to react weapons, 
 and well zombies, and not jsut any zombies, romero zombies, what more did ya need. Well first off 
 what more ya need is a freaking whole other development team to totally redo this horrible horrible 
 game. The movement is hohrible, the aiming and fireing is worse than Morrowind. And the zombies 
 the, meat and potatoes of the game seem to have alot of twin brothers and sisters becase the same 
 model's are used through out the game. You could have a shotgun to the face and they will keep 
 coming as iff you jsut sneezed than actually than actualy fireing a shotgun. and the animations 
 for the actual attacks from the other weapons? Come on does he have the spin the hammer over to 
 claw side for a hard attack every time! And lets not get me started on the zombie models, I mean 
 really how many punk mohawked zombies can there be in a freaking cornfield? This game does not 
 try to make itself better by shunning all the regular game clitche's but rather embraces them. 
 I mean really come on how much ammo are you going to find in a CORNFIELD. I mena really im going 
 to school for games and i could make a better game being drunk off my ass s from a keg party.
 
  
  Don't even buy or download this game, just look at the screenshots and smile for that is the most 
 joy you will get out of this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gzader
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 13, 2005 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Remember a few years ago, you played FPS that pretty much were all about killing stuff and running 
 through one really really long linear path until you got to the end, felt good about it, and bought 
 another game just like it?
  
  Well now you've got the chance to do that again. LOTD: RTFG is a simple straight forward Zombie 
 slasher that does fit in well with it's movie counterpart.
  
  The graphics are low end at best. Looking more like something you'd see from a budget Xbox title. 
 The music, is fair, but you're far better off turning it down and just listening to the approach 
 of the next group of zombies.
  
  Whats more remarkable about the game is the absolute lack of anything that even remotely could 
 be seen as "set dressing." The entire idea of tossing in a few objects here and there to dress 
 up the game may have occurred to someone, but they clearly were not involved with making the game.
 
  
  And the game is bland across the board, even the image contrast is lost. Hacking the .ini file 
 for it might help upgrade the graphics a little, but for the most part it just looks like a 5 year 
 old game released far too late.
  
  Having said all that, I enjoyed it for what it was. A cheap game that cost almost as much as the 
 shipping. You can finish it in one good day, even if you take the time to explore. (Zombie Kung 
 Fu baby!)
  
  So, go find the axe, hack up some zombies and finish it, then load up the next game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamingprincess
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 10, 2005 5:36 pm PT
Review:  i adore fps games. i play a lot and usually take my time learing my way around things. i will admit 
 i had to go to the message board to get started but after that it was smooth sailing. really smooth. 
 problem is that the rifle will hardly kill anything. even at close range. the good gun the revolver 
 has limited bullets. The glock takes quite a few shots to bring anything down. meanwhile, while 
 your reloading your weapon you get hit cant fire while thats happening so natch you die. you have 
 to be close to use a shovel or axe or pipe golf club bat who thought of these weapons? ok music 
 is the same over and over again boreing no build up to a zombie coming nothing. the bodys vanish 
 almost the second you shoot them at least leave them lie in heaps so yu have to step over em. gore 
 what a joke, the only rotten thing is the spitters who vomite toxic waste. no real bloody scenes. 
 in all it was a short ride down a very boring highway. one i will not take again. and if i could 
 have rented it first i would have 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikedotd1978
Rating: 2.3
Date: Dec 9, 2005 9:45 pm PT
Review:  I wasnt pleased with this game at all. It sounded like a good idea for a game, but it looks, and 
 feels like it was put together in a month. A very low-quality game that isn't true to the Romero 
 films in the least. One would think that out of all the games with zombies, the one based off of 
 a George Romero movie would employ the "Shoot it man. Shoot it in the head," idea. Zombies can 
 take up to 4 shots in the head, before dying; so theres no reason to bother aiming for the head, 
 since shooting them in the foot does the same amount of damage. 
  
  This is only a taste of the problems with this game. The weapons are pretty lame and most of them 
 serve no purpose. The AI is pretty bad; the zombies are too smart and the humans are dumb. The 
 very linear gameplay was expected, but there isn't even an illusion of freedom. 
  
  Most of the levels are clich trash, but I must admit the first two levels were creepy and well 
 done. 
  
  The graphics are pretty poor. But graphics aren't too important to me, but the only thing that 
 doesn't look like crap is the character model of the main character.
  
  This game should be in the bargain bin at a Wal-Mart for 5 bucks. Maybe then it's worth getting, 
 otherwise, it wasn't worth the 20 bucks I spent on it.
  
  ~Mikedotd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xipotec
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 7, 2005 7:45 am PT
Review:  OK here's the deal without silly comments like "TOTAL CRAP" or "MOST BESTEST EVER"
  
  GAME PLAY: A great idea, with the beginnings of excellent atmosphere, but it repeats the same moments 
 which steals away any fear you might have felt. Repeated "searching" of cabinets , lockers ect, 
 leaving a scar on you that the zombies could never do. Over all a few inspiring moments surrounded 
 by repetative shooting and searching. Never felt threatened, alway had ammo and not enough targets. 
 George Romero always showed scale... WAY too may zombies to deal with. There is nothing like that 
 here. A better way to go would be (as in the movies) a head shot only to kill em, but have some 
 many around that even a marks man wouls not have time to pick em all off, this would be tense!!!!!!! 
 Keep you running and shooting with very breif rests.
  
  Graphics: A medium level graphics game. Zombies look great, but lighting is not used well enough 
 (not that I need another doom3) . Just should have been better "mood lighting". The zombies corpses 
 do not stick around. I don't know about you but when zombie bodies disappear in the wink of an 
 eye it ruins the mood (again) . I would love game to stop making bodies disappear (alla doom3 quake4) 
 or at least give us the option to keep em around rotting. Texture are fine and most of the background 
 stuff (furniture, desks,) are good enough to let pass. But NO blood splatters? This is inexcusable, 
 its a common thing in games now, but not here. 
  
  Sound: One spot I have no complaints. Creepy stuff here. Certain time te moaning was coming from 
 a grate or hallway that just was too much!
  
  Multiplayer: great ideas oten never translate well. The invasion game was what I was looking forward 
 too. You and your friends against hordes of the undead! Well, not quite. The maps are way too small. 
 I envisioned a LARGE city map filled with hundreds of the undead (wonder where I got that idead 
 from?) Bsically its a round based coop "bot" bash. On small maps with no real inspiration. I guess 
 closed in spaces was the idea here, but with unlimited ammo .... not really scarey. Would have been 
 better to give a large space , lots of hidy holes, lots of dead guys, and limited ammo and health.
 
  
  Overall: 19.99 is not bad price, the game is short (in many ways) . Could have been a great game 
 if development was furthered. 
  
  Do I BUY it  Only if you really like ZOMBIES. The its fun for a one time through. Rent it if you 
 have a few hours to kill (and you don't mine killing zombies.
  
  XIPOTEC
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mehfuz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 6, 2005 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Land of the dead: Road to fiddlers green is inspired by the movie of the same name. Graphics are 
 not stunning like todays game though visuals of some areas really look good and some effects are 
 excellent. Sound tracks are good enough to give you horror feelings. Now here are some negative 
 things about this game. This game is too short and you can end this game in no time and below 10 
 hours. There are some dark places in the game and you dont have any flash light. Story is very 
 much linear and there is not even a final boss fight and ending is just pathetic. Games melee 
 weapons collection is fantastic.
  And multiplayer option is really nice. Its another zombie killing games but actually there are 
 not many substances that you would get from good Horror games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punisher694
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 6, 2005 5:00 pm PT
Review:  There is a very low supply of guns, the 22 cal. riffle takes two shots to kill in the head. The 
 graphics are poor, and there is no sparks coming out of the gun when you fire. There is a very 
 good selection of melee weapons. All the weapons are M16,22 cal. ,shotgun, sniper, revolver, and the 
 gl ock. The melee weapons are fire  fu fists, and the golf club. 
 This game is good but bad. And it is very short! City of the dead looks way better! This game is 
 fun to play in the beggining. I am running out of words so i am going to write so i have 100 words. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dennie64
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 1, 2005 3:55 am PT
Review:  I started playing this game a couple of days ago, and I soon learned that this game shouldn't be 
 taken seriously. It just ain't scary, it misses the horror in games like Doom3, or F. E. A. R.. But 
 I have to say, it is so much fun to kill the zombies on gruesome manners! Take your baseball bat, 
 hit the zombie between the eyes, and your happy for the rest of the day! Or what do you think of 
 killing zombies with a hammer? A good point is that you can shoot arms, legs, and stuff of the 
 zombies, and when you shoot a leg off he/she falls on the ground and wil try to crawl to you, but 
 no succes, take your fire-axe and hit him/her right on the head! Conclusion, don't buy, play at 
 a friends house. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dazion
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 23, 2005 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Well, First of all the game is based in the true history of the authot; but theres a problem, Game 
 could included some more music and more sounds, also action. Game really creeps sometimes. But 
 the game is so boring, all MONO and MONO. I couldnt give a 5.0. Just cant, u got only 4 bullets 
 in the gun, then u got hit by a zombie and fell and then they kill fast, lol i mean omg. If the 
 compnay could add more action and more stuff ill be better.
  
  GFX are Ok in some ways, zombies looks real, but some of the environments doesnt. I didnt liked 
 it at all, Wasted of bandwith. 
  
  Sucky Game classifed.
  
  :. dazie
  .Frag the Nubs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: golden_dragon89
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 7, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  Well.. to begin i like that game cuz it remind me a bit of one of my favourite game ever... Doom.. 
 Pure shooting.. you dont have to mess around for 5 minutes to advance and have fun... ITS A PURE 
 ZOMBIE PWNAGE GAME.
  well seriously... graphics are okay... sure i already saw a lot better but dont forget its a budget 
 game. The game is short... so dont hesitate to play on the hardest level of difficulty... unless 
 you hate to get annhilated :P.
  Well the multiplayers mode... aaaaaw... well.. i like it... ive always enjoyed killing everything 
 on sight... but with a friend its far more better... For the AI.. well they are stupid.. but what 
 do you expect from zombies? negociations maybe? nah just open fire and argue after ^^.... well 
 its a great game.. but it could be better so they should try to make a sequel and improve this 
 game... cuz the idea worth the try. Oh and i forgot to say that the sound is amazing ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waikit25
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2005 5:17 pm PT
Review:  This is actually a very short game. Finished it in about 5 plus hours. The graphics are okay. The 
 surroundings looks a bit dull, but the zombies are well-done especially when close up. You will 
 notice the Eeeewwwww............ details. They managed to scare me a few times when they appear 
 from behind. The zombie sound effects are good, making me feel a bit scarry when playing in the 
 dark. The story is quite standard and predictable, so you know whats going to happen next. I think 
 focus of the game is about zombie killing and not so much about the story. The zombie may walk 
 slowly for most of the time and overwhelm you with a quite a few at a time, they may suddenly just 
 sprint on you when you get too close, making you desperate to get away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarukaSawaguchi
Rating: 1.7
Date: Nov 21, 2005 1:34 am PT
Review:  George A. Romero's movies are great. This game however, is not. This game is generic, very generic. 
 Some of the zombies look high res and greatly detailed, while everything else looks bland and uninspired. 
 The sound is true to the source, the original source, the 1968 classic Night of the living dead. 
 Not the stuff you'd expect from a game based off a newer movie. The sound only gets 2 points because 
 there are some sounds coming from distances that are creepy. This game has no value however, not 
 even the dem is worth it. There is no point in playing this! Move along! Play FEAR! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dinamika
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 20, 2005 6:20 am PT
Review:  must admit, I was pretty skeptical of this game when I first heard of it, and even more so when 
 I heard it would be a $20 "budget" title. Then I played the demo, and was pleasantly surprised. 
 
  Decent graphics, good sound, and great gameplay. The game engine is based on Unreal 2, and the 
 game controls are your standard issue WASD for movement, R for reload, C for crouch etc. If you've 
 played any shooters at all you can pretty much jump right in.
  Wall and object textures are only average, but the character models, especially the zombies are 
 very detailed. Some, like the half-eaten and decomposed zombies are quite hideous. Sound is very 
 good; the weapons sound like they should, and the noises the zombies make will make your hair stand 
 on end.
  The music is outstanding, and is rather creepy.
  In fact, it is so creepy I had to finally turn it off after the umpteenth time I jumped out of 
 my chair when a zombie came at me from out of a hole in the ceiling, or popping out of ventilation 
 ducts.
  The demo I thought was too easy, but the full version of the game has several difficulty levels. 
 Even on just "normal", the zombies will give you a run for your money.
  The full game's first level is very hard, as you start with no weapons and frantically have to 
 search for something, anything that will faze the zombies.
  It had me one step away from full panic, the game is that good.
  Multiplayer is a blast, especially 
 the mode called "Invasion". In it, you and up to three friends must cooperate to survive wave after 
 wave of the undead. What a hoot. The game also has the standard deathmatch and CTF modes, with 
 the exception that in addition to worrying about human opponents, the levels are infested with 
 zombies. While you're setting up that killer sniper shot on the guy trying to capture your "flag" 
 (bag of supplies) , suddenly you're being attacked from behind by a zombie. What a hoot!
  The game does have a few small problems; occasional clipping, and my system locks up when exiting 
 multiplayer (although this could be driver related) . Hit detection is iffy; head shots on zombies 
 can be difficult to make at times. Also, the zombie AI can be exploited; jump on a desk or chair, 
 or crouch in a corner, and the zombies can't see you! This does not always work however. I guess 
 some of the zombies' aren't "firing on all cylinders". But they are after all well, zombies, and 
 not the sharpest tools in the shed. But all in all, this is a great game, and well worth the $20. 
 I'd gladly have paid $40 for a game of this quality.
  So all you zombie lovers out there, rise up out of your shallow graves, and shamble or shuffle 
 off to the store and get this game!
  
  REWIED IN LITHUANOA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charles_kerby
Rating: 3.6
Date: Nov 18, 2005 5:10 pm PT
Review:  I LOVE ZOMBIE SURVIVAL.... and I waited and waited for this game to come out... I have played better 
 player-made mods for FPS then this chunk of Fetid Zombie Filth.... Im so unhappy .. you guys had 
 a great chance... and you blew it . Please try again... with so much source material.. you can 
 do better.. just don't let down Romero fans again.. I may never buy another game by this company 
 again. I dont know what it is about companys' thinking that just because you can sell a game for 
 20 bucks you should make a game for 20 bucks AND ONE WITH THE ROMERO NAME ON IT!?!
  What were they thinkning? Please do yourself a favor and just pass this one up.. even if it is 
 only 20 bucks teach this company a lesson in follow-through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_void999
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 18, 2005 11:05 am PT
Review:  Being a big fan of the undead I can't say that I'm biased about my review. The movie was a let 
 down the first time around but watching it on DVD changed my opinion of George's crazy outlook 
 of the undead. The main zombies in the movie that seemed to dodge bullets at the front line still 
 did not impress me. With that said lets look at the game.
  
  LOTD was lacking that movie style theatric when you dispatch one of the undead. There were no satisfying 
 headshots we come to know and love from our undead brethren. Understood that the weapons involved 
 in the game do different types of damage from the .22 to the M16 assault rifle to the Hammer and 
 the Axe for melee weapons. You would think a couple of .22 shots to the head would take down the 
 undead. The lack of a story didnt help the game an further. The game would have been more interesting 
 if they had a few more characters to interact with instead it only had a few. With the potential 
 this game had it still fell pretty short for the game. It also didnt offer enough replay value 
 for the FSP side and the Multiplayer options were lacking in variety. I really hated the screaming 
 puking zombies. WTF was up with that?
  
  I Love me some zombie killing action but LOTD didnt fill that void. They had mad an effort to 
 give you that sense of hopelessness but it became more of aggravation because of the controls and 
 weapon selection. There were no chain saws or hatches to dismember heads and limbs with tons of 
 blood and gore. Only Axes and hammers and bats were around to do some melee combat. I wanted this 
 game to be so gorey even Tom Savini would be impressed. But the effects had good blood spatters 
 on the walls and sprays of blood on impact.. 
  
  They have just released an unofficial editor with the latest 1.1 patch so hopefully the fans out 
 there will use it to their advantage. I know I don't have the time for it but I do agree that a 
 Mall level like in both Dawn of the Dead movies would be great to see. One thing about this game 
 is it has the potential to make it a great multiplayer experience. If they could make it possible 
 to play the levels and story line using more than one character in the same style of the movies. 
 Having everyone work together to keep the zombies out and trying to find supplies. I think it would 
 turn out to be a real riot. With the addition of vehicles to games like Unreal and Battlefield 
 you would think they could create a level like the mall escape sequence from DotD. One to drive 
 and the others to keep the undead off the vehicle. 
  
  In the end LotD felt really short and not so epic. Yeah its an FPS but so is Halo and I still 
 dont see whats so epic about it. More characters and optional story lines would have been awesome 
 to give LotD more replay value. I love my zombie killing but it still doesn't fill that void even 
 in multiplayer mode. Maybe a free for all hold the fort style of level to see how many zombies 
 you can kill till help comes. LotD also needed more levels, weapons and game options to keep this 
 one alive. Difficult level was just too easy and there just werent enough zombies to kill. Escort 
 levels were fun to get your sniping on. Zombie skins and models were great. The Audio effects were 
 fantastic with the moaning and clubbing of the dead . 
  
  For $20 you cant go wrong  well sort of but it has lot of potential now that the editor is out. 
 If youre a fan of Zombies this is one to own for keep sake and a once through on your PC. Hopefully 
 there will be some great mods to keep this one alive and kicking for a bit longer we have a twitcher
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: duuuuuuuuh
Rating: 5.2
Date: Nov 17, 2005 11:13 am PT
Review:  I'm a huge fan of pretty much anything Zombie or First Person Shooter related. Throughout the game 
 you acquire your standard arsenal of guns: pistols, shotgun, machine gun, sniper rifle, and you 
 get your choice of melee weapons (You can only carry one melee weapon at a time) including hammers, 
 bats, a fire axe, and even a lead pipe. You even get a trailer of the "Land Of The Dead" movie 
 included in the game. All this is not enough to save the game from below average playability.
 
  
  You begin the game as "Jack", your typical farmer, cut-off from the hustle and bustle of today's 
 world living out his peaceful existence on his spread of land. The intro movie shows him standing 
 atop Fiddler's Green and we're treated to a fairly decent narration, then he cues the flashback 
 to how it all started. He notices a stranger standing outside his house and you're given control. 
 With nothing but your fists, the game instructs you to "Find out what the strange wants" via an 
 objective pop-up which it uses throughout the game to tell you what to do next. The controls are 
 your typical FPS fare; movement, jump & crouch, attack and alternate attack buttons. 
  
  You head outside and you find out that the stranger in fact (Big Spoiler) is a zombie (Okay, maybe 
 not) . You try to fight the zombie off, but soon realize that your fists are about as useful as 
 toothpick is against a tank, luckily your fists CAN knock a zombie down with a fairly good shot. 
 The computer gives you the next objective to run upstairs and get your gun from the attic. You 
 find your .22 caliber rifle inside your trunk .
  
  If you were smart and closed your door behind you as you went to get your gun, you'd hear the sound 
 of the door being broken apart as "The Stranger" and some of his friends beging to flood into your 
 home. Gun in hand, you'd think you're ready to dish out the undead destruction, but this is hardly 
 the case. It took me 3 headshots from the .22 to kill a zombie and the clip only holds 4 shots. 
 That and the fact that it takes you a fairly long time to reload makes killing the zombies a royal 
 pain. 
  
  Next you have to head to your shed to get your other gun. After a quick jaunt to the basement to 
 find the proper key, you're off to the shed and grab a .38 revolver. The revolver is going to be 
 your mainstay weapon for a while as you find out that a well placed headshot has a pretty good 
 chance of popping a zombie head. The physics of popping a zombie head seems to be luck since a 
 pointblank shot rarely does the deed alone. 
  
  After picking a melee weapon from the barn, your run over to the main gate of your farm and end 
 the first level. The game continues on with straightforward objectives and practically no way to 
 get lost. Ammo other than .22 always seems short in supply, forcing you to turn to melee weapons 
 to take care of the zany zombies. 
  
  You have an attack button and an alt. attack button. Until you get the fireaxe, neither seems to 
 do much damage. Example: Attack does a quick, simple attack which damages the zombie slightly, 
 alt. attack tends to knock the zombie down while doing moderate damage, HOWEVER if you strike at 
 a zombie while it is getting up it does no damage whatsoever. Even using the alt. attack of a weapon 
 causes no damage and the zombie will not fall until it is back at attention. If you strike to soon, 
 the zombie will lunge at you the second it has righted itself, basically making melee tedious and 
 all about perfect timing. 
  
  While headshots seem to dish out a little more damage, they rarely take a zombie out in one shot. 
 Even the shotgun shoved down the move of a cankerous cadaver is literally a hit or miss affair. 
 These shortcomings are the only thing that actually makes the game difficult which frustrates me 
 even further having taken the majority of my damage from zombie cheap shots.
  
  Graphics feel about 2 generations behind, making the game look like a port of a PlayStation 1 game 
 with a bit higher polygon count and sharper textures (expect clipping) but does have nice ragdolls 
 when you chance a head-popping shot. Sound is about average with no 3d or EAX effects, but the 
 zombie groans and moans are actually quite good. Voice acting is decent and not really over the 
 top, although throughout the game most of what you hear is Jack's narration and the guttural groans 
 of your zombie oppressors. 
  
  Overall the game is definitely bargain bin material. It would have been salvageable had the gameplay 
 mechanics been tuned better to eliminate the frustrations of combat, but in the end it leaves you 
 with a bad taste in your mouth. This game would most likely be appreciated by Hardcore Romero fans 
 or masochists everywhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuecker83
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 16, 2005 9:21 pm PT
Review:  With a very short learning curve, and plenty of bloody zombie-slaying action right off the bat, 
 this game is entertaining, but shorter than most would hope for. While at times, the game makes 
 you feel like you really are in a zombie movie, there are other times the action is slow and repetitive. 
 
  
  The game is extremely simple to pick up  click to fire weapon, press action to follow directions 
 on screen, and basic WASD movement - which is great considering that the game throws you into the 
 action right away. The running and gunning, and punching and ammo hording begins immediately. For 
 awhile you become convinced that the action wont stop, and it doesnt for a few levels. Even when 
 the mood drops, and suspense is elevated by expecting a zombie around every corner, the action 
 still seems alive. However, a few levels later, when in the city, there still are a few Holy ---- 
 ! moments. Nevertheless when combined with lack of mood, you no longer feel dropped in the middle 
 of a movie, but rather in a game set to Deathmatch: You vs. Zombies. 
  
  The killing is fun  you can dismember your opponents in a variety of ways, all in the name of 
 slowing them and their oncoming attack, but wasting your ammo. I actually spent the majority of 
 the game with the heavier melee weapons and more powerful weapons doing one-hit kills by aiming 
 for the head. In this respect, you could play the entire game using just melee (which myself and 
 a friend did, without stretching total gameplay time to much) . 
  
  Likewise, this is where the game looses it appeal. After awhile, I decided to finish the game, 
 just to finish. Once you figure out the one-hit kill scenario, combined with the lack of variety 
 in appearance of the zombies and levels, the game becomes boring and repetitive. Open door, shut 
 door, kill all zombies in the room, pick up ammo and health, and repeat in the next room. 
  
  There are points later in the game that redeem the gameplay a little. Covering a fellow survivor 
 with a sniper rifle, and doing the same later on but with a M16, hold special places for me within 
 the game. 
  
  I was disappointed with the graphics. From my point of view, the majority of the graphics went 
 into the dismemberment of the zombies, and the rag doll physics you experience in killing one of 
 them. Otherwise, the textures are flat, and although the blood stains on the zombies look random, 
 the remainders of the zombies appearances are obviously repeated. The same decaying grandmother 
 and the same risen corpse from the local cemetery appear over and over again. 
  
  The multiplayer is equally if not less entertaining. I had fun with a few friends playing invasion 
 or Deathmatch for a few nights in a row, but with only two models and three outfits for each model; 
 multiplayer is less likely to keep your ADD at bay than the single player. 
  
  All in all, the game is a good weeklong addiction, but then the hard drive space is better spent 
 on some other FPS that has a higher replay value and a longer total gameplay time.
  
  BPD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Breended
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 16, 2005 5:45 am PT
Review:  Who's writing these reviews?
  
  Programmers afraid to be sacked maybe.............
  
  Well to write the 100 words I am supposed to write I'll just quote Johnny Depp in fear and loathing 
 in las vegas.
  
  [Watching Dr. Gonzo leave] 
  Raoul Duke: There he goes. One of God's own prototypes. Some kind of high powered mutant never 
 even considered for mass production. Too weird to live, and too rare to die.
  
  Raoul Duke: You better take care of me Lord, if you don't you're gonna have me on your hands.
 
  
  [at a bizarre circus-themed casino] 
  Raoul Duke: Bazooko's Circus is what the world would be doing every Saturday night if the Nazis 
 had won the war. This was the Sixth Reich.
  
  Raoul Duke: With a bit of luck, his life was ruined forever. Always thinking that just behind some 
 narrow door in all of his favorite bars, men in red woolen shirts are getting incredible kicks 
 from things he'll never know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMonster2012
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 11, 2005 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so I just finished playing the demo. Great game, by the way. One of my favorites, I think. very 
 hard. The part in the end on the stage was the scariest (Lame excuse) part of the game. I'm really 
 thankful for the "fly" cheat and the weapons cheat, or else I'd have been dead in an instant, because 
 I would just sit up in my corner, and shoot the zombies that come near with a sniper rifle. Very 
 fun.
  
  Graphics*9/10*The graphics were very pleasing to the eye and very colorful, lots of textures and 
 soothnig views, you can almost smell the smoke of the fire nd taste the blood spattered occasionally 
 over the theater walls and floors, which had the original "theater" themed pattern.
  
  Sound*8/10*The sound, I have to admit, could have been improved, but yet, it was just good enough for 
 my to get creeped out by the zombie noises and grunts, which actually scared me on occasion.
  
  Gameplay*9/10*This game was unbelievably fun. Much more fun and extravagant then I would have 
 ever thoguht they would be. Probably my favorite demo ever played, I'm just excited I bought the 
 game, I'm now waiting for it to arrive in the mail.
  
  Controls*10/10*The controls were unbelievably easy to remember, and I think they were located in 
 the exact spot I wanted them to be, but also if I don't like the controls, the menu conveniently 
 has a "Control Settings" switch, so I am able to set it to my desired preferences.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZaCkaRy8549
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 8, 2005 4:41 pm PT
Review:  When I first downloaded the demo, and tried out this game, I was amazed.
  
  There aren't many Zombie FPS's out there, and this game really helps out the genre. The graphics 
 aren't exactly the highest quality, but there not horrible (think 2004 Xbox graphics) Also, the 
 weapons are limited, and the levels can get quite boring sometimes.
  
  Still, there are some small bad parts about this game, yet it totaly makes up in gameplay. As I 
 said the weapons are limited, but if you were trapped in a zombie infested city, how will you be 
 able to obtain a HUGE arsenal *cough* every FPS on the market *cough
  
  The levels aren't mediocre, yet they can get boring. For example, you may find yourself repeating 
 the "find the key to the room" or "kill all the Zombies in the area," which isn't bad, yet it can 
 become fustrating
  
  As you progress through the game, you may find yourself thinking about how short it took, yet you 
 shouldnt worry about that due to its multiplayer. The multiplayer includes the basic CTF, Deathmatch, 
 and my favorite Survival, where you and up to 4 players fight against a horde of Zombies
  
  Overall, Romero fans will be sure to love this game. The sound, Zombies, GORE, and fighting are 
 exactly like the movies. Also the plot, and storyline make you feel like you are in the movie
 
  
  So basically, if you love and Zombie movies, and a scary game to play at 12 o'clock, and think 
 it would be fun to battle zombies (who doesn't?) I say buy it, dont forget
  
  IT'S ONLY 20 BUCKS
  
  it would be a sin not to try it
  
  -Zack 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuasha786
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 8, 2005 9:03 am PT
Review:  "Land of the Dead" simply a good game based on Zombies. The Graphics is good and the gameplay is 
 quite Ok. Though the starting of the game is not so attractive & well, because there is no such 
 history how all started like many other games and far differences about the story between the movie 
 & the game. But one can enjoy the game after playing a little while. It's outside environment is 
 not so bad & the zombies are quite Ok, though they are not as like as good compare to other zombie 
 based games such as Resident Evil (Series) or Obscure (Zombies) . Now the last thing that I want 
 to say, it's totally up to you how you just rate this game but according to me it's just simply 
 a good game.
  
  Thanks a lot.
  
  Antar 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cagalitros
Rating: 3.8
Date: Nov 7, 2005 7:19 am PT
Review:  The gfx looked really old, even for a Unreal engine, you can feel really frustrated by clipping, 
 low rated guns and bad gameplay, why the level finished when I've killed all the zombies without 
 giving me the chance or health myself, at least let me go to the checkpoint. A lot of headshots 
 really fails to kill the zombie and the moves are really slow, really you're slower than a zombie 
 and why the corpses keep disappearing?. 
  
  Don't lose your time with these, remember there're hundreds of games much worthy.
  
  PS. If 
 you wanted to kill zombies get back to Doom series. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcroberts
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 6, 2005 8:40 pm PT
Review:  I been looking for a great first person shooter with zombies for a while. I definitely found what 
 I was looking for in Land of the Dead Road to Fiddler's Green. Great graphics and great fun. Definitely 
 worth it, plus it is a rather decently priced game. It is just all around great to play. (I know 
 there are lots of better graphiced games and whatnot, but this still is excellent) . Story mixed 
 decently with the movie, which just adds to how much I enjoyed the game. 
  
  Only thing I would say would be a couple more weapons. Only a couple guns, though the M16 is fun. 
 Though there are lots of hand to hand weapons, which is pretty cool.
  
  Overall great game, definitely something that I will be playing often and repeatedly.
  
  Most 
 people should at least give this game a look. Maybe check out the Demo for it located on GameSpot.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PunishedOne
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 4, 2005 4:27 pm PT
Review:  First off, I have the full version. I'm on the Labyrinth level, which is heading to the demo's 
 Theater level. I've also played the demo.
  
  THE DEMO IS 5X WORSE THEN THE FULL GAME! THE DEMO'S AIMING SYSTEM IS ACTUALLY HARDER THEN THE FULL 
 VERSION!
  
  Anyway, let's get started.
  
  This game is obviously based on George A. Romero's (The zombie master) re-make of Land of the Dead. 
 The game is set in the universe, BUT DOES NOT FOLLOW THE MOVIE (I haven't seen the movie, only 
 Dawn of the Dead (re-make) .) .
  
  You have your standard weapons: shotgun, Cowboy-era Rifle (Which is probably the weakest weapon 
 and your first weapon) , Glock 19, M16A1, Bolt-action sniper rifle, Frags, Molotov Cocktails, .357 
 Magnum (Not sure on this.) . I'm sure there's more but I don't have them yet.
  
  There's a TON of melee weapons: Hammer, Fists, Kung-Fu Fists (Nice humor, and it's actually powerful! 
 I kept it for a few levels before grabbing the Fire Axe) , REALLY HEAVY Lead Pipe, Baseball Bat, 
 Fire Axe, Golf Club, and a Shovel. Nice arsenal. My personal favorite is the Fire Axe. Crush their 
 head in clean.
  
  The graphics are gorgeous, style-wise. The detail on the zombies is amazing. Don't expect Q4 or 
 F. E. A. R. style graphics when I say these are gorgeous, because those are technology-driven. LOTD's 
 is STYLE driven. The zombies pack lots of gory detail, and from about 10 feet away they look like 
 [i] [/u] . The only game that has done this to me is HL2.. The shadows are great, seriously, very 
 nice and fluid. The animation is also great. The ragdoll I LOVE! It simulates that the body has 
 actually softened and the flesh is flimsy. It's not UT2K4 style, it has more realism to it and 
 less flimsy. Think of it as HL2's ragdoll with more weight to it.
  
  To sum it up, the artistic portion of LOTD is an A+.
  
  The gameplay is purely OLD-SCHOOL. 
 Clear out the zombies while grabbing X item. This isn't scary at ALL. I admit that I have jumped 
 a few times (Zombie standing behind me after I knocked him down with the Fire Axe's secondary attack, 
 Well timed "boo moments", etc.) , only the atmosphere is creepy. 
  
  Controls are fine for FPSs. Everything checks out. The only thing I don't like is that the mouse's 
 aiming isn't pin-point smooth.
  
  The reason why I said this was realistic: The aiming system! You actually need to lead the zombies 
 while they are moving! This means the developers actually took firearm velocity into consideration. 
 DO NOT EXPECT THIS TO BE CS. YOU WILL NOT GET A HEADSHOT WHILE THEY ARE MOVING WHEN YOUR CROSSHAIR 
 IS ON A ZOMBIE'S HEAD. You will get a headshot when they're stationary though, but that's dumb 
 not to know that.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gerryandersson
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 4, 2005 11:39 am PT
Review:  Slow, stupid and hungry is a good description of most zombies and I think that is part of why I 
 like them, I feel one can relate to them on some kind of low primitive level.
  I was hesitant when I got this game because I dont like getting spooked by games, but I just couldn't 
 resist the urge to live a little in the world of the dead. When I started to play I was really 
 tense and I was scared by everything, even things like doors and the sound of my own footsteps. 
 But after playing trow the first levels I realised that this was not really a scary game. I didn't 
 find this to be a bad thing though, since it allowed me to fully enjoy the whole point of the game, 
 killing zombies. That is kind of all there is to it, killing zombies, the story is fair, at best, 
 the graphics arnt the best and some of the weapons dont really feel "real", the sound/music is 
 good though.
  
  The game whas a little difficult at first and I almost died a number of times but ones I learnt 
 how to fight the dead it whas almost too easy.
  So if you like zombies or just killing things in games for stress relief this game is for you, 
 otherwise you can save your money, even if this is a budget game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pat_gamespot
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2005 4:34 am PT
Review:  This game is full of those flesh-eating freaks! Zombie limbs and brains (if any) will splatter all 
 over the place. The Graphics on the zombie models look quite good, but some environments are choppy 
 and dull looking. Dont buy this game for looks, buy for the joy of killing zombies yourself or 
 with friends.
  
  The multiplayer comes with DM, CTF and Invasion. DM and CTF are pretty bland but the invasion is 
 fun and entertaining. You will roll over when you see another player hitting a zombie with a hammer 
 or bat square on the face.
  
  Overall the game holds up pretty well, but glitches are not uncommon. 
  
  Buy F. E. A. R. or Quake 
 4 if you are looking for great graphics and nice presentations. But buy this if you are looking 
 for entertainment and a bit of laughter online with your friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kylestater
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2005 1:20 am PT
Review:  
  Well I never thought I'd see the day when a complete conversion of a zombie masterpiece would be 
 put on PC. Well I'm glad to see they picked Land of the Dead cause that movie was awesome. I always 
 wanted a fps type zombie game, those survival horror games like Resident Evil just wasn't cutting 
 it for me.
  
  But focusing on the game, of course, it's really straight forward. That being said, if you are 
 a veteran of the FPS genre then you will feel right at home. 
  
  First thing you'll notice when you play it is the fact that doesn't quite use the PC's full potential 
 and capabilities, but that's fine ( for once) . You see, having a game with low graphics detail 
 is fine, as long as the game is imersive and fun; And this game delivers just that. And I recommend 
 getting a hold of the PC version instead of the Xbox. Becuase you get higher resolution and better 
 shader effects.
  
  Another thing that's very unique about this game is the arsenal. You get the strangest types of 
 weapons ranging from six-shooters to hammers to even golfclubs, yeah, golfclubs! The ammo stock 
 is very scarce but it keeps the game challenging, fun, and just right. Cause it would be pointlessly 
 easy if you could have 230- somethin' bullets for your shotgun. It really forces you to get comfy 
 with a good ol' lead pipe or the handy-dandy fire axe.
  
  I liked this game because I'm a huge fan of Romero's films and just when I finally got done watching 
 the movie like a million times they throw a addictive game right in my face.
  
  { buy it } 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haqerj
Rating: 4.4
Date: Nov 2, 2005 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Graphics=All detail of the game when in to the zombies, blood and gore. Everything else is so undetail 
 it's almost unforgiveable. Speacial effect are little and crappy.
  
  Gameplay=sloppy. the AI is very retarded even for brain dead zombies. they some times stand there 
 and try to figure out how to turn or how do walk through doors. 
  
  The stages=Boring. they were blenty of moments where you were expecting something to happen but 
 nothing did so your were disapointed. and most of the room are so cramped with crap you just ussually 
 end up backing in to a corner and get mauled
  
  Weopons=Useless. when you want to unload on a zombie or just beat the crap out of them the limits 
 of the weopons like how weak they are and how much ammo they hold really hold you back so you end 
 up either running away or try to keep your distance while they beat the crap out of you.
  You can hold only one hand to hand weopon but there plenty laying around but they are all the same 
 strength and aren't really different from the last one except for the fire axe-if you still plan 
 on playing this game never give up the fire axe. if can cut they're arems off to disable them and 
 if you hit them in the head you can get a 1 hit kill
  
  Sound=can't complain it good
  
  Final though-If they spent a little more time create cool stages and making the weopons more user 
 versitile then It would have been a playable maybe even enjoyable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisdragon
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 29, 2006 10:41 pm PT
Review:  Well, this game is one game if you're a FPS fanatic and a zombie game/movie enjoyer. The gameplay 
 is easy to remember and using the power of the Unreal2k4 (?) engine beings it to life.
  
  Despite being a little short and should have been longer (I beat it in about 4-5 hours) , it's still 
 a good game afterall despite it needs some balancing issues and tweaks (especially the shotgun, 
 what kind of shotgun holds 4 shells?!)
  
  The above has mostly been fixed, from a patch here: http://www. groovegames. com/Games/LandOfTheDead/downloads/LOTD_Patch_v1.1. zip
 
  
  The multiplayer gives life to this game with it's traditional DM/TDM/CTF and invasion mode, which 
 reminds me of UT2004's invasion mode but easier with coordinated players.
  
  Seeing the end of the game cinematic, I smell a sequel for the game! :O 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bah-Humbug
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 1, 2005 12:33 am PT
Review:  I bought this game solely so I could kill zombies and it does this surprisingly well. This game 
 is quite gory to my delight and the enemies are quite ugly. As expected since the only enemies 
 you fight are zombies they are extremely stupid and easy to kill. I spent most of the game using 
 melee weapons such as the axe. The default difficulty is laughable and I doubt hard would be much 
 worse. None of the zombies have enough sense to use guns like big daddy. The ones that use melee 
 weapons are tougher and will take more abuse to kill but they are just as dumb. The only mildly 
 intelligent thing these guys and girls can do is smash through wooden doors. During the latter 
 levels you babysit a guy who is almost as dumb as the zombies. The multi-player sucks badly but 
 then again this isn't UT2004 or F. E. A. R. It's a budget game and it is good if your have the urg 
 to kill something.
  
  All in all a decent game while it lasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e_secreto
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 30, 2005 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Ok, Ive been playing this game for a few hours now and all I can say is DAAAAAMN, this is one 
 scary **** game... Im telling ya if youre fan of zombie movies, specially George Romero, then 
 THIS IS THE GAME, The enviroments for this game are really scary because you get the feeling of 
 being alone all the time, no living around and with the scary music at the background makes it 
 even scarier, the music pretty much resembles the ones from Tom Savinis remake of "Night of the 
 Living Dead". Watch out, dont run, just be careful, because when you less expect BAM... a zombie 
 pops out to bite your sorry ass, and believe me they show up when you LESS expect. Ive to admit 
 that I called my friend **** last night because he said he jumped of the chair, but damn he WAS 
 sooo right, YOU WILL JUMP of your chair, I can asure you. This game will really get you in the 
 feeling about being alone in the world trying to make your way through the zombies. Theres one 
 specific level where you have a plan to escape from the Police Station and you will find another 
 guy named "Otis" and he have a plan to escape, but you gotta cover his ass... This is by far the 
 coolest mission, you will feel like youre in the "DAWN OF THE DEAD" movie, when Fran is taking 
 down some zombies from the Mall rooftops with her rifle while giving some cover to Peter and Roger 
 while they barricade the doors with the trucks. This game is pretty much like you the films, if 
 you can save the ammo, DO IT, get your baseball bat or fire axe and destroy any zombie who attacks 
 you alone. You wont find any problem finding ammo, but ya never know. My favorite guns so far are 
 the sniper rifle, shotgun and revolver, they do some major damage to the walking corpses, you can 
 blow their heads off, disable their legs or arms. But also have fun blowing out some of them with 
 grenades or burning them to the ground with molotovs. I havent finished the game yet, but I can 
 asure you, if youre a George Romeros zombie films, you will have alot of fun with this game and 
 feel part of them. Dont let people convince you this game sucks, because IT DOES NOT, its really 
 cool, the graphics are not the BEST, but really good for an average FPS game, the main point of 
 the game is to let you FEEL how would be if you were living in an world taken by zombies, to put 
 you in the situation of save your own ass all by yourself, you have no one to count but on YOU. 
 How many times have you asked yourself or friends "What you would do in a zombie situation?" or 
 "What would be your favorite weapons?" So, thats it, this is YOUR CHANCE to experience the scary 
 world of zombies from YOUR OWN point of view. Well, thats all for now folks, now its time to 
 get back to the game, I still need to make my way to Fiddlers Green. Final word? Two thumbs for 
 Groovy Games. Later. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: csm101
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2005 2:11 pm PT
Review:  I must admit, I was pretty skeptical of this game when I first heard of it, and even more so when 
 I heard it would be a $20 "budget" title. Then I played the demo, and was pleasantly surprised. 
 
  Decent graphics, good sound, and great gameplay. The game engine is based on Unreal 2, and the 
 game controls are your standard issue WASD for movement, R for reload, C for crouch etc. If you've 
 played any shooters at all you can pretty much jump right in.
  Wall and object textures are only average, but the character models, especially the zombies are 
 very detailed. Some, like the half-eaten and decomposed zombies are quite hideous. Sound is very 
 good; the weapons sound like they should, and the noises the zombies make will make your hair stand 
 on end.
  The music is outstanding, and is rather creepy.
  In fact, it is so creepy I had to finally turn it off after the umpteenth time I jumped out of 
 my chair when a zombie came at me from out of a hole in the ceiling, or popping out of ventilation 
 ducts.
  The demo I thought was too easy, but the full version of the game has several difficulty levels. 
 Even on just "normal", the zombies will give you a run for your money.
  The full game's first level is very hard, as you start with no weapons and frantically have to 
 search for something, anything that will faze the zombies.
  It had me one step away from full panic, the game is that good.
  Multiplayer is a blast, especially 
 the mode called "Invasion". In it, you and up to three friends must cooperate to survive wave after 
 wave of the undead. What a hoot. The game also has the standard deathmatch and CTF modes, with 
 the exception that in addition to worrying about human opponents, the levels are infested with 
 zombies. While you're setting up that killer sniper shot on the guy trying to capture your "flag" 
 (bag of supplies) , suddenly you're being attacked from behind by a zombie. What a hoot!
  The game does have a few small problems; occasional clipping, and my system locks up when exiting 
 multiplayer (although this could be driver related) . Hit detection is iffy; head shots on zombies 
 can be difficult to make at times. Also, the zombie AI can be exploited; jump on a desk or chair, 
 or crouch in a corner, and the zombies can't see you! This does not always work however. I guess 
 some of the zombies' aren't "firing on all cylinders". But they are after all well, zombies, and 
 not the sharpest tools in the shed. But all in all, this is a great game, and well worth the $20. 
 I'd gladly have paid $40 for a game of this quality.
  So all you zombie lovers out there, rise up out of your shallow graves, and shamble or shuffle 
 off to the store and get this game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: STEVSEN
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 29, 2005 9:42 am PT
Review:  I have only been able to play the demo, becaurse the full game itself, have not been released yet 
 in Denmark where i live... The feeling of nockin' a zombie with a shovel is just great. The feeling 
 is "Graps around your neck"
  I believe that i have jumped of the chair a few times. The klastofobian feeling you get when inside 
 an zombie packed house is just right.
  I am really looking forward to have some fun nights with friends in the Multiplayer Coop ... I 
 can't wait until realese date...
  
  
  Keep ya posted on my reaction !
  --------------------------------------------
  Over 'N' Out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reguile
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2005 4:10 pm PT
Review:  I dont get why people have trouble with getting a little headshot. That may not sound right, but 
 you kno what I mean. I'm able to get headshots, I can see why they complain about it though. You 
 have to aim at a certain area for it to actually work, preferably at a certain range too. Sometimes 
 it's "harder" to actually blow their head off if you are too close, and with the shotgun, the BB's 
 spray in a cone shape pattern. It doesn't spray like that the second it comes out of the gun. Stand 
 in front of a wall and shoot, you'll see. Also reload really blows. Shotgun always reloads 4 shells, 
 even if you only need one. And a real shotgun can hold like 8 shells, maybe 9. And if I was that 
 redneck, I wouldn't reload when a zombie is right in front of me, I'd pull out another weapon and 
 cap the zombie with it. Unless I have no other weapons, then I would kick the zombie down and butt 
 him massively with the gun.
  Also kinda strange is the weapons you actually find in a movie theatre. AMMO in filing cabinets, 
 M4 neatly leaned against a wall, a "golf club" in the bathroom, glock and magnum, a sniper rifle 
 in the projector room, also a fire axe in there too, the only fire axe through out the whole theatre. 
 Also grenades, I can understand molotov coktails, but not grenades. Yea, military were there. Grenades 
 would be on their zombies, not sitting on a couch. Surprises me the doomsday device isnt in there.
 
  Well, I played through demo, beat it like two or three times. Last time I played, I beat it with 
 only melee weapons, so people can't complain on how "hard" it is. It's not that hard. Overall, 
 I would say get this game/demo in my case, if you are into blowing zombie's up and bashing them 
 with baseball bats. Says its even in multiplayer, so you can double team up on them. Group of people 
 w/ bats, 1 person constantly knocking them down, rest, swing wildly at them. Sounds fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BUD007
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 25, 2005 8:44 pm PT
Review:  I think this was a great game, graphics are good , story could of been better but over all it was 
 good, And its worth the $20.00. This is a great game to pick up if your a fan of George a Romero 
 of just a plain fan of zombie games, Besides Half-Life and Half-Life 2, this game is unique because 
 its a FPS Zombie game, Unlike Resident Evil which was third person. There are mods for other games 
 that make them into Zombie games but this is the only FPS zombie game ive seen available in stores. 
 Its Scary also, like some points zombies will fall down from the Vents right in front of you or 
 you turn around and a Zombie is right behind you, ive jumped out of my seat several times. Pick 
 this game up, its worth the $20.00. it also has a Very Fun Multiplayer. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
