-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Lands of Lore III
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/landsoflore3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 30, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.3
Critic Score: 6.2, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 100 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Westwood Studios
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Mar 31, 1999

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Simplistic gameplay, barren environments, a dated graphics engine, and horrible artificial intelligence 
 collectively make Lands of Lore III an unsatisfying experience. 

 When Westwood Studios released Lands of Lore: Guardians of Destiny in 1997, many role-playing game 
 fans were disappointed that the belated sequel cast players in the role of a single, preset character 
 and featured extremely linear, action-oriented gameplay. In fact, aside from maintaining first-person-perspective 
 gameplay, Guardians of Destiny bore little resemblance to its party-based predecessor, Lands of 
 Lore: Throne of Chaos, let alone the two statistics-chomping AD&amp; D Eye of the Beholder games 
 crafted by Westwood. By minimizing role-playing game elements and crafting an adventure/RPG/action 
 hybrid, Westwood hoped Guardians of Destiny would appeal to a broader range of gamers.   

 With RPGs now enjoying a renaissance, the aptly titled third Lands of Lore game has been released, 
 packaged with the enticing prospect of enhanced RPG elements and character development options 
 through the addition of class guilds and familiars. Unfortunately, simplistic gameplay, barren 
 environments, a dated graphics engine, and horrible character artificial intelligence collectively 
 make playing Lands of Lore III an unsatisfying experience.  

 You are given the role of Copper LeGre, who, after witnessing the speedy dismemberment of his father 
 and nasty stepbrothers by some dimension-hopping hounds, realizes that he's both become the heir 
 to the throne and lost his soul. The departure of Gladstone's resident deity, the Draracle, results 
 in the appearance of dimensional portals in the Gladstone woods. In addition to exploring the Gladstone 
 area, Copper will have to travel through the portals to five strange dimensions - or "worlds" - 
 in order to conveniently save the realm and recover his soul. Thanks to Gladstone's court mystic, 
 lacking a soul hampers Copper less than losing a wristwatch and bears no impact on gameplay whatsoever, 
 other than presumably giving you additional motivation in case "saving the realm" wasn't sufficient 
 encouragement.  

 While voyaging to five completely different environments may sound intriguing, gameplay is actually 
 substantially similar, and simplistic, in each dimension. The realms completely lack scope or, 
 with the notable exception of the Fire World's Dragon City, any sense of scale. There are only 
 a handful of creatures in each realm and less than a dozen nonplayer characters who have more than 
 two lines of dialogue in the entire game. Exploring a world largely consists of traveling down 
 barren, linear, claustrophobia-inducing paths. Even most outdoor areas have enclosing "roofs" that, 
 coupled with the narrow passageways that predominate in the game, effectively transform what should 
 be expansive wilderness areas into narrow caves with varying texture maps.   

 A 3dfx or a capable Direct3D video card will produce some nifty, but overused, colored lighting 
 effects and some impressive high-resolution background environments. The quality of the first-person-perspective 
 graphics varies greatly throughout the game, however, and the voxels and sprites used to depict 
 items and characters tend to devolve into pixelated blobs at close distances. NPCs display a disturbing 
 tendency to rapidly repeat their limited animations. Most of the dozen or so cutscenes in the game 
 work well and look good, but others, including the introductory scene, are less compelling and 
 also feature exaggerated character animations. Certain areas, such as the Underworld's haunted 
 house and the Shattered Desert's military base, overcome the limits of the game's engine and produce 
 a few memorable moments. Others, such as the forest with its canopied roof, pixelated sprite bushes, 
 and solid walls of textured trees, look completely artificial. The forest's makeshift curtains 
 of trees look like they belong on stage in a medieval play - I half expected Robert Goulet to step 
 out from behind a pixelated stump and start singing Camelot.  

 There is no character-generation screen in Lands of Lore III, as Copper always starts out with the 
 same attribute scores. You are given the opportunity to customize Copper by having him join one 
 or more of the guilds in Gladstone and by picking up a companion familiar. Each of the guilds is 
 dedicated to one of the four core classes (fighter, mage, cleric, or thief) found in pseudo-medieval 
 fantasy RPGs. While you could limit Copper's guild enrollment, potentially creating a variety of 
 character classes, the game gives you little incentive to do so, since you'll just lose access 
 to certain shops and facilities. Copper gains experience levels faster with fewer guild memberships, 
 but levels are relatively unimportant since there's readily available equipment that'll enable 
 neophyte characters to dish out formidable damage. Gaining experience levels is ludicrously easy 
 in any event, as you can rack up experience by stomping pitiful training opponents in the fighters' 
 guild. Each guild only offers a couple of quests after initiation, and later quests largely consist 
 of returning to one of the worlds you've already thoroughly explored to grab a previously inaccessible 
 item.  

 Your familiar scurries about relatively independently, and each familiar has a distinct personality 
 and abilities and some incredibly annoying dialogue. In fact, other than the contributions of Clancy 
 Brown (Highlander/Starship Troopers) who reprises his role as the Draracle in a cameo, the voice 
 acting is usually painful and often occurs at inappropriate times. During frantic moments, your 
 familiar will invariably announce an intention to leave the area to look for trinkets. Not to be 
 outdone in the battle for most untimely speech, Copper will usually retort that he's hungry enough 
 to eat a horse, but doesn't think that it would make a particularly good meal without potatoes. 
 Huh? Get in the game, Copper. Play to win.  

 Copper and his familiar aren't the only characters who are oblivious to the events transpiring around 
 them. NPC and enemy artificial intelligence is at an all-time low in Lands of Lore III, as evidenced 
 by the thugs in lower Gladstone (none of which has a peep of dialogue) , who gleefully smash endlessly 
 into buildings. The pathfinding of the three dozen enemy types makes combat almost always an unthreatening 
 joke, winnable by strafing left and right and bouncing arrow after arrow off the heads of your 
 hapless, uncoordinated foes.   

 Copper proves remarkably adept at backstabbing without having to bother sneaking up on opponents, 
 as they often, inexplicably, turn around while in the middle of an apparent charge. Since opponents 
 are rare in many areas in the game, the environments themselves frequently challenge you with jumping 
 and "thrilling" box-stacking puzzles. While most of these acrobatic maneuverings aren't too strenuous, 
 they're apt to cause more character deaths (and resulting lengthy reloads) than the game's battles. 
 It's difficult to understand the rationale behind the design decision to require you to constantly 
 spoon-feed food to Copper or the gameplay benefits which that touch of "realism" provides - especially 
 in a lighthearted game that features fireball-hurling flying chickens.  

 The game isn't all bad. The music and sound effects are suitably varied and appropriately reflect 
 Copper's surroundings. Several elements from past games make welcome reappearances, including the 
 original Draracle caves from Throne of Chaos, those ever-popular bikini-wearing amazons from the 
 White Tower, and Guardians of Destiny's protagonist, Luther. The interface provides convenient 
 access to available items, spells, and weapons while maintaining a view of the gaming world. A 
 comprehensive journal automaps Copper's travels and records NPC conversations and other useful 
 information.   

 But the few noteworthy features are overwhelmed by the game's flaws. The initial release of the 
 game is unstable, frequently crashing on start-up with some video cards, and is exceptionally intolerant 
 of certain virtual memory cache settings, Direct3D sound cards, and background programs such as 
 Netscape's Instant Messenger. Graphics quirks such as missing textures and clipping errors occur 
 frequently enough that I began to suspect every pit or semitransparent wall of being a graphical 
 error. Ultimately, however, it's the simplistic and repetitive gameplay that makes Lands of Lore 
 III more of a chore than a pleasure to play.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: verdugoRE4
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 14, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Lands of Lore 3 has been sitting in my little corner next to my computer unopened for 5 freaken 
 years. And now that I crack and dicide to open it up and play it, I acually realize I wasn't really 
 missing TOO much. The game was made in 1999, that's 8 years ago. The first impressions you might 
 get of it are acually along the lines of ''hey, this game looks kinda fun''. And once you begin 
 your quest, you figure out that you are right, and wrong. But honestly, the game has its good moments, 
 and a lot of its frustrating moments, plus an abundence of flaws. But the first few minutes to 
 an hour are proably more exciting than you might expect. But don't get your hopes up, the system 
 works rather decently, but not great. You might end up a bit muddled by the overall presentation 
 later, and that's where you might start to hate it. But if you get past the flaws, its great fun 
 to slay wart hogs, spiders, demons, etc. with your weapons you find around. You have a lot of stuff 
 to use, and to find. And the game will last you a while if you take the time to fully explore it. 
 Many enimies await you, and its usual of many RPGS to utilize this formula. BUt Lands of Lore 3 
 does it fairly differently in just one way: IT KINDA MAKES IT NOT WORK AS WELL. Overall Lands of 
 Lore 3 is not exactly the greatest choice for an RPG, but undereath its flaws, you have a fairly 
 solid game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
