-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Laser Squad Nemesis
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/lasersquadnemesis/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Old-school turn-based strategy feel.
 Four varied and interesting races to play.
 Will run on just about any PC.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Old-school turn-based strategy feel.
 Primitive presentation.
 Not for Ritalin-addled junkies with short attention spans.
 You can't save in the middle of a campaign match.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  5, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 7.1, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 116 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Got Game Entertainment
Developer: Codo Games
Genre: Sci-Fi Turn-Based...
Date:     Apr 26, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While the game will probably appeal to fans of old-school PC strategy games, the relatively primitive 
 presentation and slow pacing will likely turn off others who have come to expect more pizzazz from 
 their strategy. 

  Laser Squad Nemesis has finally found its way to retail shelves. The game was designed and developed 
 by Julian Gollop and Nick Gollop, the brain trust behind the classic turn-based strategy game, 
 X-COM: UFO Defense. Though it's new to retail outlets, Laser Squad was actually released a couple 
 of years ago as a play-by-e-mail-only strategy game. After a couple years of additions and tweaks, 
 the Gollop brothers and Codo Games finally added campaign missions for single-player action. The 
 package also includes a three-month subscription to the game, which gives you the right to both 
 play online against human opponents in leagues and obtain future downloadable missions and other 
 content. While the game will probably appeal to fans of old-school PC strategy games, the relatively 
 primitive presentation and slow pacing will likely turn off others who have come to expect more 
 pizzazz from their strategy.  

          Laser Squad Nemesis is the newest game from the creators of X-COM.     

  Though it's 
 often compared to X-COM, Laser Squad Nemesis differs a great deal from its forebear. The primary 
 difference is that there is no base-building or resource-gathering to worry about. Instead, the 
 game focuses entirely on turn-based tactical battles on a gridlike field that should look familiar 
 to fans of the original X-COM. At the outset of each match, you're given a set number of points 
 that you spend on deploying your army on the map. The more powerful units, such as vehicles, cost 
 more than regular foot soldiers.  

  You've got a choice of four different races, each of which is completely unique from the others, 
 meaning the races are balanced asymmetrically, like in Starcraft. The marines are what you'd expect 
 them to be: foot soldiers who carry weapons such as laser rifles and grenade launchers. They also 
 have a medic unit that can heal any infantry. The machina are a race of sentient robots that have 
 very powerful but expensive military units, including missile and plasma tanks. The greys look 
 like your stereotypical  X-Files  aliens. Their units include powerful flying saucers and troops 
 that can mind-control enemies. They also have a tank that can put up a shield barrier for infantry 
 to hide behind. The spawn are an insectlike race with fast-moving units that attack primarily through 
 melee. The spawn queen can eat corpses on the battlefield and then lay eggs to create additional 
 units. Each of the four races is fun to play and attacks with a very unique style. The only unfortunate 
 thing is there are only six different units within each race to choose from.  

          Four different races offer unique strengths and play styles.     

  Once you've got 
 your army chosen and deployed, you click on your units and move them about the battlefield in turns 
 that last 10 seconds. Laser Squad Nemesis includes a fog of war and line of sight, meaning you 
 can never be too sure where the enemy is until one of your units spots him or her. The command 
 interface is fairly flexible, allowing you to give each unit special orders, such as fire at will, 
 pursue any enemies spotted, or retreat when enemies are spotted. Once you've given each of your 
 units orders, you end your turn, and all your units (including those of the artificial intelligence 
 or human opponent) move and act simultaneously during that 10-second turn. The developer has thoughtfully 
 included a preview mode that lets you see how your units will move and act during that turn, so 
 you can make sure they're not running into one another or shooting their buddies. Of course, this 
 preview assumes your opponent does nothing during this time. After a turn is taken, you can see 
 the results using a VCR-like interface that lets you play, pause, rewind to previous turns, and 
 fast-forward.  

  Unexpected things can happen, though, and it takes some practice to ensure your units are always 
 doing something productive, even when the unexpected occurs. Since you'll be controlling sometimes 
 more than 20 units in a given turn, it can be frustrating when some of your troops sit there idly 
 because the enemy you've ordered them to fire at has run behind a blind corner or because you've 
 accidentally caused a traffic jam in a narrow doorway. To prevent these things from happening, 
 players need to be very meticulous about the orders they give. This aspect of the game, and the 
 fact that action happens only 10 seconds at a time, makes Laser Squad a very slow-paced affair. 
 If you have the attention span for it, the game is quite fun, and it's very rewarding to finish 
 a mission, whether it's a head-to-head match or one of the 20 campaign offerings.  

          The graphics are not the game's strongest aspect.     

  The plodding pace of Laser 
 Squad Nemesis is probably why the only options for multiplayer are play-by-e-mail or hotseat head-to-head. 
 If you play a match with another player via e-mail, you can set the number of turns the game is 
 limited to, as well as other options, such as a time limit for play. Playing by e-mail might be 
 an antiquated way to play a game, but the good thing is that you can take just about as much time 
 as you need to plan your turn before e-mailing the data back to your opponent. The bad thing is, 
 of course, that your opponent will also be taking his or her time. It's not out of the question 
 for a single online match to take several days, if not weeks, depending on how you've set up the 
 match.  

  The primary knock on Laser Squad is that its presentation is rather dated. The game engine is 2D, 
 with rough animations for the different troops. It can also be difficult to tell one unit type 
 from another, at a glance, especially if you're playing as the marines. There's a decent variety 
 in the environmental tilesets, but everything feels flat, and there doesn't seem to be any elevation 
 to worry about, such as multistory buildings. Certain aspects of the environments are destructible, 
 though, and this factors into the gameplay when you create your own entrances and exits, or when 
 you blow up units from behind walls with explosives. As far as sound goes, the weapon effects and 
 explosions are pretty cheesy, and there's no music or speech to speak of. But that's also somewhat 
 expected of a $20 game.  

  If you're a huge fan of the original X-COM and you're looking for a true follow-up to the game, 
 Laser Squad Nemesis isn't quite it. The tactical battles definitely capture the spirit of X-COM, 
 but the whole package doesn't come together in quite the same way. On its own merits, Laser Squad 
 Nemesis is a still a worthwhile turn-based strategy... if you don't mind its rough look and feel 
 and don't have too short of an attention span.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Luchian
Rating: 1.9
Date: Apr 25, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  I'll be brief. If you're looking at this game, you've most likely heard of it due to X-Com (UFO 
 Enemy Unknown) or the original Laser Squad. This game is nothing like either or them and does not 
 play anything like them.
  
  Sure, there is a squad to control, but it's not a collection of individual units with any kind 
 of personality.
  The control scheme is where the game is totally let down. It's a hybrid turn-based / real time 
 affair that has been implemented before in many similar games, but done better in those similar 
 games.
  
  It's hard to find anything to recommend here. Sure, there is multiplayer. That's the main draw 
 of this title. Heck, there wasn't even a single player mode until the game had already been operating 
 online for months. So really don't even bother with this if you want a 1 player campaign.
  
  The game is shallow, repetitive and lacks any kind of charm usually associated with the Gollop 
 brothers.
  
  If you have played X-Com or Laser Squad, you are better off looking at UFO : Extraterrestrials.
 
  
  If you've not played X-Com or Laser Squad, then this is NOT for you anyhow. There are much better 
 games out there to take up your time.
  
  I wanted to like this game, or at least find something good to say about it, but I was unable to. 
 AVOID AT ALL COSTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LT_Winters
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 21, 2005 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Laser Squad Nemesis is a spiritual successor to the legendary X-Com series from Codo, a development 
 house made up of many of the same developers who brought us the venerable turn-based strategy games. 
 LSN focuses in on tactical combat, brought to life by a flexible, deep, and accessible order system 
 and tense simultaneous turn gameplay, backed up by four varied, cross-balanced races (Marines, 
 Machina, Spawn, and Grays) . It won't win any awards for graphics technology, art direction, or 
 sound design, but LSN doesn't need to. For $20, it provides some serious, addictive gameplay that 
 any strategy fan will enjoy.
  
  Laser Squad Nemesis revolves around a simultaneous turn system, akin to the recent Combat Mission 
 series. You can give orders to your troops, but each order takes an estimated amount of time. Each 
 turn consists of 10 seconds of simultaneous action by both sides of the match. Following the processing 
 of the turn, the player (s) can view the results and then issue orders for the next turn. When the 
 orders are finished, they are processed by Codo's software. 
  
  LSN's order system is very robust, yet also very easy to learn for even the new strategy player. 
 The order method is divided into actions (such as targeting or healing) , rules of engagement, and 
 movement. Using these functions, you can make a unit move to a certain location, shoot an enemy 
 or piece of terrain, and/or aim at a specific area to increase firing frequency. For all of these 
 orders, units will follow the rules of engagement and movement that you set. For example, you can 
 have a unit move to a location and lay down covering fire on a window, but also have the unit pull 
 back if it sees any enemies on its approach. This impressive system allows for deep tactical planning 
 and anticipation that makes for a very satisfying strategy gaming experience.
  
  The game is played by four different races. The Marines and Machina are ranged combat powerhouses 
 that focus on squad tactics and unit preservation to achieve victory. The Spawn, on the other hand, 
 are your stereotypical insectoid alien race that relies on sheer numbers and the Queen unit, which 
 can devour the bodies of fallen enemies and lay eggs that hatch into new combat units. The Greys 
 provide an even more radical gameplay change with their fragile yet extremely potent and damaging 
 array of "Roswell" aliens. The races provide varied gameplay experiences and yet manage to be very 
 balanced. There are very few noticable advantages or disadvantages to any one side. On the downside, 
 each race only gets six different units to play with.
  
  The $20 package comes with 20 challenging, complex single-player scenarios as well as a hotseat 
 gameplay mode for offline play. This is probably more than worth the purchase price alone, considering 
 the depth of gameplay to be had in Laser Squad Nemesis. But the game also ships with 3 months of 
 free play on Codo's online service. You can manage several games by e-mail, and each ranked win 
 or loss will factor into your ranking score (starting at a base 1000) . You'll need to pay $4 a 
 month after the three month subscription runs out, but by this point, you will have either had 
 so much fun with your first three months that $4 seems like pocket change to you, or have had enough 
 by the time your subscription runs out. Overall, the game holds its own very well for its budget 
 price.
  
  The game's presentation does not hold up so well. The graphics are unimpressive, but at the same 
 time serviceable and certainly not ugly. Mission briefings for the single-player game are brief 
 and uninformative, but the missions themselves unfold nicely. There is very little sound in the 
 game overall except for some cheaply done battle effects and a beeping interface; no voicework 
 or cutscene dialogue is included. This really shouldn't matter too much to the hard-core strategy 
 fan. but be warned that if you like a little flash with your strategy game, you won't find it here.
 
  
  Nevertheless, Laser Squad Nemesis is a very worthy game for anyone with even a passing enjoyment 
 of tactical strategy. The game is great fun online as well as in single-player, and the sub-$20 
 price tag is very attractive to say the least. It's not the most graphically stunning game of the 
 year, but who needs it to be? LSN will be a strategy gamer's addiction for far longer than its 
 budget price suggests. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
