-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: LA Street Racing
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/lastreetracing/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Driving model feels good.
 fine sense of speed.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Bland settings.
 stupid artificial intelligence.
 online play feels slapped together.
 unbalanced gameplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  6, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.7
Critic Score: 5.2, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 6.2, 146 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Groove Games
Genre: Driving
Date:     May 28, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A decent driving model is spoiled by uninspired, unbalanced features in this budget street racing 
 game. 

  Despite it's setting, there's an oddly foreign feel to L. A. Street Racing. It's partially because 
 of the laughably shoddy English used by your street-racing rivals in the game, but more than that, 
 it's because you get the feeling when playing LASR that the developers have never really been to 
 Los Angeles before. The result is a game that isn't bereft of high points -- the feel of the cars 
 being one of them -- but also isn't able to transcend its numerous inadequacies.  

          Hurry up and wait is taken to an entirely new and boring level in LASR.     

  LASR's 
 single-player game challenges you to become the king of the L. A. motorsports scene by taking on 
 a seemingly never-ending stream of challengers looking to knock you down a few rungs on the street 
 racing ladder. This is not a bad concept for a game, but where LASR fails to inspire is in its 
 execution. For example, instead of having free reign of the city, picking up challenges as you 
 drive your whip around the town, you'll simply be parked in one of four increasingly prestigious 
 sections of Los Angeles. As you sit there, challengers will simply pull up to you one by one and 
 challenge you to a race. Or, often more amusingly, a challenger may cast a badly translated zinger 
 your way, such as "I don't want to ruin your confidence! Now get lost!" Ooh  burn .  

  Despite the lame insults, LASR manages to find a way to inject some intrigue into practically every 
 race through a betting system, whereby both racers wager one or more parts from their ride against 
 one another. These parts can be trivial, such as decals and body kits, or include more important 
 upgrades, such as engines, tires, nitrous kits, or even your opponent's car. This system also ties 
 directly into LASR's limited car customization. The only way to improve your car's performance 
 is by winning performance upgrades on the streets. Beyond that, there's no way to tweak the performance 
 of your cars. Thanks to a fairly wide performance gulf between the 10 cars you collect in the game, 
 this system often proves to be frustrating and frequently unbalanced.  

  That lack of balance is mainly found in the cars you unlock late in the game. With one exception, 
 the late-game models seem underpowered in comparison to the competition you face. As a result, 
 you're usually at a distinct disadvantage at the start of every race, so unless you find a way 
 to score a miraculous win or get lucky when your computer opponent makes a mistake, you're going 
 to lose the race. If you made a wager, you'll also lose an important part for your car. Going up 
 against these overpowered cars means you're very cautious late in the game, rejecting any challenge 
 that you know you can't easily beat. Thus, you spend far too long just sitting there and rejecting 
 all comers until the right challenge comes your way.  

  Worse yet, late in LASR, you'll likely lose every shred of racing decency you've honed over the 
 years. Faced with the risk of losing your precious engine upgrade or level-three tires to an unfairly 
 overpowered opponent, you spend your time not merely looking for ways to pass your opponents but 
 rather to slam them into a wall. Or better yet, you look for ways to spin them around completely 
 so you can get a clean break. It's not what racing games -- even underground racing games -- should 
 be about, and it certainly isn't fun.  

  That's a shame because, at its core, there's an entirely acceptable driving model in LASR. The 
 first-person cockpit view looks good, and you really get a feel for the different cars you collect 
 in the game. For example, it's easy to tell the difference between a front-wheel drive car and 
 a rear-wheel drive car. Better yet, each significant performance upgrade you make to your car is 
 tangibly felt in its on-the-road performance, whether it's a noticeable jump off the line, thanks 
 to a new engine, or better cornering around the hairpins with a new set of tires. While most of 
 the damage to the cars in LASR is cosmetic, the cars will suffer performance hindrances after hard 
 scrapes. On the down side, even the most dramatic crashes in the game feature audio effects that 
 sound like someone vigorously slapped a lunchbox with a fork. But damage is just an afterthought 
 because you can pause the game and choose the "rescue and repair" option at any time to instantly 
 get your car back to full racing trim.  

  The artificial intelligence in LASR is characterized by mostly brain-dead opponent cars that are 
 completely willing to slam into you and, at the same time, aren't completely able to cope with 
 their own power late in the game. It isn't unusual, when running on the Bel Air stage, for your 
 opponent to completely misjudge a turn and slam into one of the many light poles that run down 
 the middle of the long, sweeping back section. In fact, you can almost count on this happening, 
 even when going up against your arch-nemesis -- the ludicrously named Matt Peacock. You'd expect 
 the final boss in an arcade racing game to be an absolute fiend on the road, especially after his 
 skills have been touted for the entirety of the game. Instead, Peacock displays the same kind of 
 skill behind the wheel as another notorious L. A. celebrity: Lindsay Lohan.  

  Each of the four stages you progress through in career mode features several stages inspired by 
 various sections of Los Angeles, including downtown, the San Diego Freeway, Palos Verdes Drive, 
 and Bel Air. Yes, in LASR, Bel Air is apparently one of the hotbeds of the hardcore street racing 
 scene. Proving the developers have never stepped foot in Los Angeles -- or at least they didn't have 
 the time to fully flesh out the environments -- there is no foot or street traffic to contend with 
 in the game. Sure, there are cars parked on the side of the road periodically, but no traffic beyond 
 you and your opponent. And while the environments don't look bad, and some of the tracks feature 
 nice designs, the nighttime setting tends to become monotonous after a while. Would it have killed 
 them to include a sunlit, high-speed jaunt down Highway 1? Car models are generally OK; if a bit 
 on the generic side, though the in-car view features some laughably bad rear-view and side mirrors 
 that reflect what appears to be a single texture, rendering them effectively useless.  

          There are plenty of car parts to upgrade your ride with or put on the line during the race. 
     

  Though the game features exhibition, time trials, and online multiplayer racing for up to eight 
 drivers, you'll find most of the limited fun offered by LASR in its single-player experience. Curiously, 
 we weren't able to actually enter any of the time trial events -- the game claimed that every car 
 we had required more upgrading. Then, once we finished the single-player game, we tried again, 
 but LASR informed us that we had already completed all the time trials available. Other strange 
 bugs we found in the game were the periodic inability to quit out of online races, as well as opponent 
 cars that simply stopped after a crash and refused to start racing again.  

  The bottom line is that LASR looks and plays too much like a budget game for its own good. Thanks 
 to a decent driving model, you can overlook the game's unsophisticated take on the City of Angels. 
 However, when coupled with its lazy design and a number of poorly implemented features, LASR's 
 problems glare like high beams in your rear-view mirror.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: darkviper_ba
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 8:34 am PT
Review:  In the world today, we see race games "Arcade" to dominate the market, I am tired there to be few 
 options and people criticizing the old and good way simulator, This game is very good in the physics, 
 stable while rurning, the only obstacle is the unbalanced and the lack of an open world, simply, 
 it would like all to love of race had that same physics.
  
  I don't change that of way none for one more "NFS Arcade", it arrives... live, Live for Speed, 
 TOCA3, and the best... Legal Street Racing: Redline... that yes it is "Tuning" and LASR... 
  
  I wait for the second version and that it is a completely open world so that the lovers of 
 the simulation if they feel free... even LASR 2
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FromWitchSide
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 9, 2007 5:46 am PT
Review:  Unlike any other underground driving title, LASRs strongest point is driving model. For the first 
 time in such game, you can actualy tell that you drive rear wheel drive car, and need to countersteer 
 a lot. Joined with nice car cocpit, and driver animation it feels unexpectly good for a game thats 
 sold for less than 5 euro. It gives feeling more like old Street Rod (Hot Rod) , than say NFSU, 
 tho of course play with parts is on completly different level (just level X upgrades like in NFS, 
 tho with little variation of same level parts working together better than when mixed up) . Nonlicensed 
 cars arent big problem, for some they may look slightly made up, but when you look closly it is 
 easy to tell that you drive RX-8, NSX, Skyline, or Lancer Evolution. You wont find any specs beyond 
 acceleration, max speed, and power, but each car feels clearly different, and some need different 
 way of driving (like heavier Skyline that forces you to take corners slightly earlier, and abuse 
 brakes more) .
  
  Sound nice? Unfortunatly someone forgot about everything else, freedom being what game lack most. 
 When you unlock some fun RWD cars, and good tracks (Griffith Observatory is great track that everyother 
 underground driving game lacks) ... You cant use them. Simply put when you click on quick race option, 
 you are put on random track with random car! You cant drive to your heart content nor even practice 
 new track before taking career mode challanges! Havent played such annoying game in years! To add 
 to my annoyance, AI is beyond any stupidity. Not only computer will drive FWD, and RWD same SLOW 
 way (cornering) , outrunning you only with acceleration and pure power (tho its more fun to win 
 against way faster cars) , but they litteraly dont look where they drive. The thing is their path 
 is programmed in such way that they will always fallow it, even if you are already on it, slamming 
 you a lot. On side note their lines are bad, seems developers didnt know much about motorsports, 
 cause opponents usualy take inner lane before cornering. Not to mention that on last level of competition 
 they tend to do strange mistakes, like taking corner 50m too early, smashing into wall.
  
  To sum things up game is both fun, and hinderance. If only someone would added normal free race 
 options, did some fixes on AI, game could beat some serious high budget competitors. Still if you 
 arent satisfied with level of NFS series, want underground style game that feature convincing way 
 of drifting (nonartificialy prolonged, but fully usable) , and touge! track (Griffith Observatory!) , 
 you certainly should take that 5euro of your beer budget, and buy the game. Just keep in mind that 
 Yoda says, annoyed you will be.
  
  I give it 7.0 because its something else, because of Griffith Observatory stage, and RWD driving 
 model. Those are things I lacked in NFS, and every single other driving game on PC. The right score 
 should be around 6.0, NFS fanboys can give less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ekerim
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 20, 2007 3:24 pm PT
Review:  First let me say that I actually kind of liked the driving experience, it is quite a different 
 experience from playing NFS: Most wanted or NFS: Carbon. The driving is not only focused on winning 
 the races but also premiers the ability to drive safely ie. not smashing into things at full speeds 
 using the walls of buildings as pinball bouncy-thingies. Also the car damage system adds a new 
 level. Well... enough about the good things in the game. As you progress through the prestige ranks 
 you are challenged on different tracks, the irritating thing about this is that there are so few 
 of them and you never gets to choose which track to drive on. For each prestige level (there are 
 4 of them I believe) there are only 2-3 tracks available. You can not drive on a tracks that are 
 available on prestige level 1 when you are at the prestige level 2-4.
  There is no free roam mode and you are always the one that is getting challenged. The graphics 
 are not exceptional and neither is the sound. Regarding the sound... even with music completely 
 turned off it is hard to hear your own engine noise so as to know when to shift gears, all you 
 hear is the engine of your opponent. It was not worth the money I payed for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mach-
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 9, 2007 10:13 pm PT
Review:  This is an interesting game. You race for car parts instead of cash, this means that you have to 
 put upgrades on the line when you race. When you race for pink slips, if you lose, instead of losing 
 your car you will lose an entire level of upgrades. This can be very annoying, and I'd much rather 
 cheat by doing ctrl+alt+delete and quitting the game.
  
  A few things about the game annoy me. First, there's no neck to neck racing. If you're right by 
 a computer racer, they will almost always side swipe you and send you spinning out of control.
 
  
  Second, instead of having a list of races, you have to wait parked in your car for people to drive 
 by. Sometimes a bunch of people will drive by that don't want to race, making you wait a while 
 before you get to race.
  
  The driving physics are between arcade and realistic, and can be annoying at times. They aren't 
 as realistic as a game like rFactor or Life For Speed, but they're slightly more realistic than 
 the NFS series.
  
  The geography in the tracks are modeled unlike in need for speed, for example if the track is next 
 to a hill you can actually drive on the hill a little, instead of just crashing into an invisible 
 brick wall.
  
  The voice acting is pretty bad. One of the voices sounds like the woman who did it was opening 
 her mouth as wide as possible when she was saying the words.
  Over all it's a decent racing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: regnumekal
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 31, 2007 1:46 am PT
Review:  L. A. Street Racing is a game that impresses though it only occupies a couple of MB on the HDD. 
 There are some elements that are very well done, and in some cases you may think that you're in 
 the world of NFS: Underground. No story, no special events. Just you and the ranks. There are 60 
 opponents you have to beat on the streets of Los Angeles.
  Cars. The cars in this game look very good, especially since they're invented by the developers, 
 and not made from real examples. Actually there's not as many cars as you would want to be.
  Graphics. Graphics are shiny and pleasant for the eyes, but it remains at the 2003-2004 level. 
 Also there's some problems with the antialising option - it doesn't practically exist.
  Environment. The crappy trees and houses are hidden with special exaggerated lights.
  Special 
 options. I liked very much the idea of winning the parts for your car from your opponents and not 
 buy them from the shop. But in this case the game loses certain points of reality.
  For you to begin a race you have to go at a rally point: Cool Market, Peninsula Shops and other 
 ( there are 4 of them) and wait for your opponents. That's a bad part because you have absolutely 
 no freedom within the world of L. A.. Time Trials and the Quick Race option in the menu complete 
 the picture, there are some restrictions at those too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alumni_Tech
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Very realistic in the terms of the driving physics. When you crash your car is damaged and the 
 steering does screw up... I did not expect it to be this good but they out did their selves, especially 
 being from a company that no one has heard of (well me anyway) . Love the way you can bet but don't 
 have to, but if you do thats the only way you can win stuff or unlock stuff. One downside is that 
 they play the same songs over and over, there needs to be more variety and better song choices 
 too. Graphics could be a little bit better seeing how it is for computer, the particle system is 
 alright but needs some work to make it more realistic. But overall its a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Djiel
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 28, 2007 4:44 am PT
Review:  The Good: Cool semi-sim driving model, nice track design
  
  The Bad: Serious lack in tracks, AI you'll swear at, no licensed cars/parts (ok thats not really 
 bad, but its a shame :)
  ----
  
  Ok, I'll be honest.. when I saw this I was expecting some crappy arcade lame budget game.
  
 
  However, after playing like 10 minutes, I was pleasantly surprised :o
  
  Graphics: Not the best, but quite nice especially for a budget game..
  even has HDR and AA, stuff 
 like that.
  Some framerate issues for some of the options even on my 7900gto though.
  
  Sound:
  Fairly generic but gets the job done. There is not a lot of voice work in it, but its 
 not really great
  Music consists of some hip-hop and electronic tunes
  
  Gameplay:
  You start the game by choosing one of two cars, one which looks like a Corsa or one which seems 
 like a Trueno with Firebird headlights lol
  The way you get to the races can get kind of annoying after a while because you just stand on some 
 background and cars pass by till you accept a race
  
  You can bet parts with the races, they include performance, bodykits and some paint and decals
 
  If you win, you get the parts offered, if you lose.. you lose the parts you were betting.
  
  If you have you car at stage 1, opponents might offer a pink slip. Although that is a bit misleading 
 (you dont actually get that same car) you can unlock that car for use if you win.. If you lose, 
 you will lose 1 full stage of performance and style
  
  As mentioned before, there is a serious lack in tracks.. hence the lower vote in gameplay.
  The 
 AI is another awful thing, they're always trying to PIT you (seems like on purpose lol)
  
  There are a total of 10 cars in the game, which is decent I guess
  
  Best thing about the game 
 play though, is without a doubt the surprisingly cool driving model which feels quite nice. Good 
 sense of oversteer/understeer etc.
  
  Multiplayer:
  Havent had much chance to test it, but seems to be LAN only
  although I guess you can make it 
 online using Hamachi :)
  
  Final words:
  If you're looking for a new (street) racer and are tired of the crappy arcade games like NFS but 
 dont want the extreme of GTR? this is the game for you :)
  
  Potentially good stuff, just needs more tracks 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
