-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Law & Order: Dead on the Money
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/laworderdeadonthemoney/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 10, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.4, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 97 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Legacy Interactive
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Sep 24, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Because it's such a good translation of the show, Law & Order fans will likely persevere despite 
 the game's frustrating structure. 

 Dead on the Money is a fitting subtitle for the first game based on the long-running  Law &amp; 
 Order  television series. In the game, a stockbroker has been found murdered, and you must investigate 
 the crime and then successfully prosecute the suspect. It's a simple adventure game and a good 
 translation of the premise and structure of the television show. But a better subtitle would have 
 been "Trial and Error." Because of some frustrating mechanics, replaying the game is not just an 
 option -- it's a necessity.           Interviewing suspects is basically a text maze that too often 
 leads to dead ends.    

  Like the show, the game is broken into two distinct sections. In the first, you play as an NYPD 
 homicide detective. A woman has been found strangled in Central Park, and you must gather evidence, 
 interview possible suspects, and follow leads until you can issue an arrest warrant. Once the arrest 
 warrant is issued, you move on to the second phase. At this point, you play as the prosecuting 
 attorney and conduct further investigation and the trial itself.   

  The first half of the game is the most interesting. You send items to the crime lab, request search 
 warrants, put people under surveillance, and try to build a case against one of the numerous suspects. 
 The best thing about the investigation element is that it matches the tone of the show exactly. 
 It's never overdramatic, and you simply follow the clues until you find someone who seems to have 
 both the motive and the opportunity to commit the crime. The false leads you'll sometimes encounter 
 seem less like intentional stumbling blocks and more like the realistic results of complex relationships. 
   

  The trial portion of the game is less refined than the first half but is still interesting in its 
 own right. It's somewhat problematic that the trial often requires you to have a basic working 
 knowledge of the legal system. It may remind some longtime adventure gamers of the nearly impossible 
 Perry Mason: The Case of the Mandarin Murder, a game which also required you to actively participate 
 in a trial and was so difficult that it's no wonder it was the last game of its kind until now. 
 Most of the trial in Law &amp; Order is fairly straightforward. You question people on the stand 
 and object to the defense's questions when appropriate. But occasionally, you'll have to convince 
 the judge to allow some important questions, and you may very well be stumped as to what legal 
 argument to use.   

  There are legal references at your disposal, but you can't access them during the trial itself. 
 This hints at the game's biggest flaw. Your first time through the game, and most likely your second 
 and third, will feel like a rehearsal. Law &amp; Order imposes numerous artificial restrictions, 
 most likely to compensate for the fact that it's a very short game otherwise. The most notable 
 restriction is the time limit, an extremely tight schedule that allows almost no room for error. 
 Just searching the crime scene too thoroughly during the opening sequence can cripple you for the 
 rest of the game. You don't have much time to issue an arrest warrant, and when the time is up, 
 the game is over unless you have the right suspect behind bars.   

  There is a way to beat the time limit. At the beginning of each section, you get to choose two 
 perks for your character. One of these is "efficiency," which makes your actions take less time. 
 Another perk is "evidence" which gives you a special cursor that points out key things on the screen. 
 The cursor isn't as special as it sounds, but without it, it's almost impossible to tell important 
 items from scenery. One piece of crucial evidence is so well hidden that your special cursor isn't 
 even much help. You can also choose to be a more skilled interviewer, which cuts down on some of 
 the irrelevant questions available during questioning. This, too, is important, because the interviews 
 are like text mazes, and a wrong question can leave you at a dead end without a crucial piece of 
 information to continue. And once an interview is done, it's done.   

  Law &amp; Order often seems as though it's going out of its way to make things more difficult for 
 you, which is unnecessary because the game is rather difficult even without all the artificial 
 restrictions. Understanding what evidence is needed to get a warrant, whom to subpoena as a witness, 
 or how to separate the important info from the fluff is the fun part of the challenge. Doing so 
 under tremendous time pressure and with a lousy cursor is the bad part. The game has only two traditional 
 adventure-game puzzles. One requires you to figure out a safe combination, the other a computer 
 password. Luckily there's no slider puzzle.           You must object when the defense steps out 
 of line.    

  The rest of the challenge is by-the-book investigation, and the story itself is good. It would 
 make for a pretty solid episode of the show, and the dialogue and acting are all convincing. It 
 helps that three primary actors from the show, including the great Jerry Orbach as Detective Lennie 
 Brisco, are along for the ride, but even the secondary characters do a good job. Their digital 
 counterparts look fine, and the familiar music and title cards are there to make it seem even more 
 authentic.   

  Because it's such a good translation of the show,  Law &amp; Order  fans will likely persevere 
 despite the game's frustrating structure. Fans of adventure games will also probably be glad to 
 have a decent mystery to solve. You can play through the game twice with little time investment, 
 and as long as you take copious notes of what works, you'll be able to solve the game eventually. 
 But it's unfortunate that Legacy Interactive felt the need to make everything so much more difficult 
 than necessary. As you endlessly comb the screen as the clock ticks away, you'll no doubt agree 
 that a shorter, more forgiving Law &amp; Order game would have been much better.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jerseydevil9111
Rating: 4.8
Date: Mar 16, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  I love Law and Order and the other two games are great, however it leaves so much to be desired. 
 The biggest problem is there is way too much useless evidence You can pick up 20 items at the crime 
 scene and only 3 of them are useful for your case. You also dont know what is usefull untill you 
 waste your time having everything tested. Not everything that looks like clear evidence actually 
 helps your case and some totally useless items are important.
  
  It is a good story though and it is challengeing. If you love Law and Order you will be able to 
 overlook any of the game's faults. It really is just like the show. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artson1966
Rating: 5.7
Date: Mar 26, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  As a fan of the show i was eagerly waiting for this game to hit the market i have had this game 
 for quite some time a played it twice .
  
  First it takes way to long to complete each case requires a lot of running back and forth asking 
 the same boring questions and waitng seems like forever for lab reports to be done.
  
  the graphics are good the sound ok which is really the only positives of the game game play is 
 boring. in my opion the games ruins the exspierence of the show. 
  
  So i need not say anymore just plain disappointed. not worth the purchse but if you must try rent 
 it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THeath
Rating: 3.7
Date: Feb 10, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  I'm a huge fan of this TV series, so I wanted to give the game a try. It's an OK game, but nowhere 
 near worth the time it takes to play through. For one thing, there are huge gaps of time where 
 you're doing nothing but wandering back and forth to old crime scenes while waiting for lab/surveillance/research 
 reports, because you can't go any further until you get them. 
  
  The game is also very unstable. It crashed on me midway through the trial, when I clicked on an 
 answer to the defense attorney's objection. There was no way to get the game started again, and 
 I forgot the need to save every five minutes. So, rather than go through the whole trial again, 
 I gave up. 
  
  I'll stick to the tv show, if this is as good as it gets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adlerson
Rating: 2.3
Date: Mar 30, 2003 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Unparalleled game-play issues, and the epitome of poor game design.
  The fact that the manual itself recommends saving before doing things, in case you mess up and 
 can't go on with the game, says it all. It's about 10 years since game developers learned to create 
 good games where making a little mistake wouldn't get you stuck, and thus have to re-load earlier 
 games.
  Obviously this developer cares a little more about keeping the developing cost down than making 
 a good game. It could have been so good, but.. It sucks!
  
  Try going to the forums on the official webpage, you'll find the same impressions prevailing there.
 
  
  Stay Away!
  
  Addy 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
