-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Law & Order: Justice Is Served
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/laworderusticeisserved/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 21, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 7.6, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 140 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Legacy Interactive
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Oct 5, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This isn't really a game for diehard adventure fans, but for enthusiasts of the Law & Order franchise, 
 it's quality fan service. 

  Of all the shows on TV, Dick Wolf's  Law &amp; Order  seems like one of the least likely to inspire 
 a successful game franchise. However, that's just what the weekly crime drama has been turned into. 
 With two point-and-click adventure games bearing the Law &amp; Order name already on the market, 
 the series continues to prove that it can bring quality criminal investigation to any medium. Law 
 &amp; Order: Justice Is Served is the third entry in the PC game series, and it continues along 
 the same path of quality as its predecessors, featuring a unique storyline akin to the TV show 
 and some fun but somewhat unremarkable investigation- and puzzle-based gameplay. This isn't really 
 a game for diehard adventure fans, but for enthusiasts of the Law &amp; Order franchise, it's quality 
 fan service.  

          Murder's afoot in the world of women's professional tennis.     

  The story of Justice Is Served concerns a young and beautiful Ukrainian tennis starlet who is 
 found dead in her locker room on the eve of the US Open. Enter detectives Lennie Briscoe and Ed 
 Green (voiced by Jerry Orbach and Jesse L. Martin, respectively) , who, along with you, the office-chair 
 detective, must investigate the circumstances of her death and find out whether it was the result 
 of foul play.  

  You'll begin by collecting evidence and interviewing witnesses. Evidence can be sent to a research 
 lab or a crime lab, depending on what sort of information needs to be gleaned from it. When interviewing 
 suspects and witnesses, you'll have a few different questions to choose from. Your goal is to pick 
 the questions that are most relevant to the case. Of course, you won't be punished for asking the 
 wrong questions, as the line of dialogue with your current suspect or witness won't end until you've 
 asked all the required ones. Once you have enough evidence and testimony to build a case, you can 
 then apply for search warrants, and eventually an arrest warrant.  

  After you put a suspect in cuffs, the game shifts its focus to the second stage of law enforcement, 
 putting you in control of the prosecution for the case. The bulk of your work here will simply 
 be making sure your trial case is rock solid by accumulating evidence and witnesses as you go. 
 Once you're ready to go to trial, you'll subpoena your witnesses and submit your evidence. During 
 the trial, you'll have to examine witnesses using the same interview mechanics employed in the 
 criminal-investigation portion of the game, though now, if you ask an incorrect question, the defense 
 will object and you'll be scolded by the judge. Similarly, if the defense steps out of line during 
 its line of questioning, it's up to you to object. There are certain bits of legal mumbo jumbo 
 that it helps to be familiar with for certain situations in court, but for the most part, all you 
 really need to know is when or when not to object, and the in-game legal manual pretty much takes 
 care of the rest.  

  For the most part, this is really all there is to Justice Is Served's gameplay. At times during 
 your investigation, the game will present you with some decent puzzles, mostly consisting of simple 
 situations where you must find the right combination of numbers or letters to unlock a safe or 
 a box or something to that effect. These are almost always based on reasonably obvious visual clues, 
 and they should be easy for anybody to solve. The only other notable type of puzzle you'll encounter 
 is a mazelike puzzle where you have to navigate Briscoe through a room filled with boxes by moving 
 the boxes around (not nearly as easy as it sounds, mind you) . However, apart from the few somewhat 
 challenging puzzles, Law &amp; Order is mostly just about you experiencing the story, without much 
 difficulty to get in your way. And, in that sense, the game works just fine.  

  One big difference between Justice Is Served and the last Law &amp; Order title is that your characters 
 no longer have specific abilities to help them through the game. For example, in the last game, 
 you could choose a teamwork ability at the beginning of the game that allowed you to get hints 
 from your superiors about what direction your investigation should be headed in, or an interview 
 skill that eliminated unnecessary questions from the list when you're interviewing people. The 
 only annoying thing about this is that Justice Is Served doesn't always tell you what you need 
 to know. For instance, your lieutenant will let you know if you have enough evidence for a search 
 warrant, but she won't actually tell you which suspect you should be getting the warrant for. To 
 be fair, it's usually pretty obvious who you're after, but it can be a little confusing at times. 

  Like the last two Law &amp; Order games, Justice Is Served gets by largely because its story and 
 plot twists are highly enjoyable. The game provides you with more than enough colorful characters 
 to interview, including a male tennis star who had a previous relationship with the victim, a horrifically 
 overbearing mother who ran the girl's life up until her death, a shady sports agent who may or 
 may not have been more than just a simple father figure in the girl's life, and a crazed stalker 
 who had made a number of unnerving threats before the girl's death. The only problem with the story 
 is that periodically you will find yourself getting ahead of the plot if you haven't collected 
 every single piece of evidence. Sometimes you'll have most every piece you need except for the 
 one that explains a key plot point, but the story and dialogue will continue on, describing that 
 plot point without you having any idea what they're talking about. This doesn't happen frequently 
 enough to be a big deal, but it's annoying when it does pop up.  

  Graphically, Justice is Served is definitely the best-looking game in the series, despite featuring 
 basically the same look as its predecessors. The style of presentation is exactly the same, in 
 fact, but the character models and surrounding environments are much more realistically rendered, 
 and the characters move more realistically too. Furthermore, pieces of evidence and other investigable 
 items blend much better into the background now, rather than standing out from the other items. 
 This can occasionally cause frustration, since it's easier to miss a piece of key evidence now, 
 but it's not really that big of a deal.  

          John McEnroe probably would have been a more interesting choice, but Patrick will do.  
    

  The game's roster of voice talent features several key actors from the show, including Jerry Orbach, 
 Jesse L. Martin, Elizabeth Rohm, and even a guest appearance by tennis personality Patrick McEnroe. 
 What's interesting, though, is that none of the celebrity voice talent is really all that good. 
 Some of the line delivery is downright labored at times, and in most instances, the secondary characters 
 generally come across as more believable than the main ones. Also, since you will be contending 
 with a fair number of Ukrainian characters, you'll also have to contend with a number of cheesy 
 foreign accents.  

  Like the Law &amp; Order games before it, Justice Is Served is ultimately geared toward fans of 
 the TV series, and it works just fine in that regard. It's a short and generally simple game with 
 only a few difficult sections, but it emulates the show's style of criminal investigation almost 
 perfectly, and you can't really ask for much more than that from a game called Law &amp; Order. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: markb101
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 27, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  This game is the best crime solving game i have ever played, being a detective in a murder investigation 
 on a game is one thing but being the District Attourney is a whole different dimension.
  
  I give this game 10/10 not only for the graphics but also because everytime you think you are close 
 to solving the case it just turns another corner and a new piece of evidence comes to light, it 
 is very hard to figure it all out though, but thats the beauty of it, that you get to play it more 
 and figure even more things out.
  
  If you like Mystery games then you are going to love this game it is perfect for the game type, 
 bravo to the creators and to Legacy Interactive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpritt1987
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 21, 2007 4:44 am PT
Review:  This is a really good game, the best of the Law &amp; Order games so far. If you don't have this 
 game go out and buy it. It makes you feel like your a part of the Law &amp; Order world. I have 
 played this game at least 8 times all the way through, its fun every time. This is my favorite 
 of the Law &amp; Order games and I am sure it will be your favorite too. I do wish the game had 
 been longer though. In case you are wondering this game does work on Windows Vista, I am playing 
 it on Windows Vista Basic right now. If you get this game hope you enjoy it. Have a nice day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archrivel
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 1, 2006 7:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is the 3rd in the series of the Law and order games. The Games captures everything that 
 makes the TV series a hit and transfered it succesffully into the game. As the Impact is there, 
 you have to do the foot work, where if you do your homework you will recieve the rewards you desired. 
 The Sense of achievement when you get that vital evidence that allows you to move foward or when 
 you get the Wittness to submit more information than they 'Forgot' to tell you before. With Det. 
 Brisco, if you get stuck or if your not the next Wall Street lawyer, the game does it's best to 
 help you. You have the Lt. or the DA to call up if you get stuck. If you have a good problem solving 
 skill then this game will provide enough of a challange to you to keep you busy for an hour or 
 two. If you are unhappy to solve the puzzles or if you missed the clues. There is always trial 
 and error. So you shouldn't get stuck at a puzzle before too long.
  
  This game really does a good job of dropping you into the world of Law n Order. You get frustrated 
 or annoyed in the right spots and you really feel like your Brisco or the Assistant D. A. The game 
 also does it's best to teach you alot of the U. S Legal system, the DA's computer in the DA's office, 
 has a world of information that explains thing from the Hear say rule to what Properable cause 
 means and how to use it. To the correct way to question your wittnesses or cross examing the defense 
 wittnesses. If you have the other 2 games, then you will already be familiar with some of the legal 
 text and you will begin to start building the basics of law. So the Atmosphere is great, the Graphics 
 however is the only thing that kind let the game down. The people look good however at times, it's 
 clumsy looking in the wrong way, or when they building on the moment, the feeling just isn't there 
 because of the slight graphics glitch.
  
  This chapter in the series is the better one, as the story and the case is more Sound, we got a 
 proper case to take to trial and does great job of making the player Really work to get that Guilty 
 verdict at the end. With great rewards to match.
  
  Anyone fans from Miss. Marple, Murder she wrote to Midsummer murders. Will find this game joy to 
 play.
  
  The only fear players could have with this game, is the game may be smarter than they are. With 
 tones of Replay value this really is a good game.
  
  I also made a video review, which you can find here
  http://uk. gamespot. com/pages/profile/video_player. php? id=dnIynzb85bgMuz7c
 
  or look in the user video tab. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
