-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Law & Order: Criminal Intent
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/lawordercriminalintent/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Four full murder mysteries to solve.
 Interrogation and criminal-profiler mechanics are interesting additions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 D'Onofrio sounds like he's half asleep through the entire game.
 Frequent crash bugs and glitches make gameplay a chore.
 Sloppy interface.
 Third-person perspective is much more problematic than beneficial.
 Cheap-looking character models with awful animations.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  5, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 5.8, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 155 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Legacy Interactive
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Nov 15, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Criminal Intent dares to try a few new things with the established Law & Order formula, but none 
 of them are done very well. 

  Among fans of Dick Wolf's  Law &amp; Order  television empire, the hierarchy of shows goes something 
 like this:  Law &amp; Order ,  Law &amp; Order: Special Victims Unit , then  Law &amp; Order: Criminal 
 Intent  (and the less said about  Law &amp; Order: Trial By Jury , the better) . Legacy Interactive 
 has already churned out a number of PC adventure games based on the original series, the last two 
 actually being thoroughly competent games despite being largely targeted at the most casual of 
 audiences. For its latest Law &amp; Order game, Legacy opted to skip the obvious choice of creating 
 a  Special Victims Unit  game, and went straight to Criminal Intent. OK, that's fine. After all, 
 the show's more psychological nature could have easily lent itself to a more intriguing brand of 
 investigation. However, any notion of that goes flying out the window mere minutes into any of 
 Law &amp; Order: Criminal Intent's assorted murder cases. The clunky interface, leaden pacing, 
 mostly ugly visuals, and host of irritating and detrimental bugs pretty much squash whatever potential 
 this game might have had, and set the Law &amp; Order game franchise back about three years.  

 
          It's murder most broken in Law &amp; Order: Criminal Intent.     

  Criminal Intent does offer quite a bit more content than any of the previous games. With the whole 
 jury trial aspect of the game shirked (it's altogether absent in the TV series, too) , you are instead 
 treated to three available murder cases from the get-go, with a fourth that opens up after the 
 other three are solved. Each case follows the usual brands of twists and turns you'd expect, with 
 a few different suspects with equal amounts of motive, plenty of obscure clues, and periodic puzzles 
 that need solving. The puzzles are actually more abundant in Criminal Intent than ever before, 
 and many of them are legitimately challenging -- though they also seem just a bit out of place. It's 
 one thing to spend some time reassembling a torn-up piece of paper that could yield a clue; it's 
 quite another to hack someone's computer password using a model of a human body and trying to figure 
 out the right order of selectable parts. When was the last time you saw Vincent D'Onofrio do that 
 on TV?  

  The oddball puzzles are forgivable because they do add some real challenge to the proceedings. 
 Few other things about Criminal Intent get such a pass. One of the biggest overall changes to the 
 formula is the new third-person cinematic perspective. You no longer view the game from the first-person. 
 You see D'Onofrio's Detective Bobby Goren character, and by pointing and clicking the mouse, Goren 
 will walk to wherever you tell him to... eventually. Goren isn't exactly spry, so he tends to take 
 an overly long time getting from place to place -- a fact made all the more obnoxious by the copious 
 amount of backtracking and wandering you'll end up doing throughout the game. Every time you travel 
 to a location, you always start out in a neutral spot that's typically bereft of useful clues or 
 objects. If you end up going back to that location later to find an obscure piece of evidence, 
 you'll have to start back at that spot, and spend the time making Goren walk back up the stairs, 
 or down a long hallway, or whatever it takes. Realistic, sure, but it kills the pace of the game 
 and makes repeat trips an irritating chore. And this is all assuming that Goren will actually walk 
 where you tell him to, walk to a spot that doesn't block your cursor from selecting a piece of 
 evidence, or will not get stuck walking in one place, forcing you to reboot the game. And that's 
 not a safe assumption.  

          The puzzles aren't devoid of challenge, but they seem marginally out of place in the context 
 of a Law &amp; Order game.     

  That's only the tip of the iceberg when it comes to the bugs in this game. Animations will frequently 
 hang, glitch, and periodically cause characters to just disappear. The game also has an unbecoming 
 habit of crashing at random intervals. Click on the wrong piece of evidence at the wrong time, 
 and it's right back to the desktop with you. If for any reason another window pops up and minimizes 
 the game, it crashes every single time. So, as you can imagine, it's a good idea to save as much 
 as possible -- a fact made much more infuriating by the lousy save system.  

  Every time you want to save, you have to bring up your PDA menu, click on the bottom icon that 
 takes you out to the main menu, select "save game," and then create a new save  every time . You 
 can't overwrite old saves, even if you name them the same thing. So by the time you've spent the 
 eight or nine hours necessary to beat the game, you'll have a metric ton of game saves floating 
 around, all because you can't trust the game to go more than half an hour without crashing in one 
 spot or another.     

  There are also a lot of things that just feel kind of half-baked and sloppy in Criminal Intent, 
 mainly with the interface. The cursor icon you use to identify hotspots in the environments looks 
 nearly identical to the neutral cursor, so you kind of have to squint any time you think you might 
 have something in your sights. When you're using your PDA, sometimes the enlarged window will get 
 stuck and won't minimize when you tell it to, either because it just stops responding or because 
 the cursor switches to a hotspot cursor and won't change back to let you click the window away. 
 And when you're collecting evidence, you have the option to send it to be analyzed. In past games, 
 you could specify whether you wanted it sent to the lab, the research department, or both. Now 
 it only lets you choose both, so you end up with lab reports on documents, and research reports 
 on a sample of vomit. Lovely.  

          The criminal profiler is a useful tool -- almost too useful.     

  For everything that's 
 generally broken in Criminal Intent, there are at least a few things that are actually enjoyable. 
 The assorted mysteries themselves are fairly intriguing, with some solid twists and surprises -- just 
 don't ever click that green arrow in the upper right-hand corner of your location map, because 
 that will inexplicably display every location you'll eventually travel to during that case, and 
 spoil a lot of the surprise. As you go, you'll get to use a couple of cool investigation techniques, 
 outside of the usual pixel hunting and evidence collecting. When you're talking to a suspect or 
 a witness, you're given a variety of conversational tones to use. Goren's character on the show 
 is a master at using psychology to get confessions, so this plays to the character's strengths. 
 Sometimes you'll need to be intentionally deceptive to get them to talk, and other times you'll 
 want to play it sympathetic, or aggressive. Of course, there's only ever one specific conversational 
 choice that nets you the right answer, and if you repeatedly choose the wrong ones, the person 
 you're talking to will just clam up. But then, all you need to do to get them to talk to you again 
 is just leave the area and come back again. If only it were so easy in real life.  

  You can also help dig up a suspect using a criminal-profiler tool. Just take any piece of evidence 
 that seems relevant to the case and insert it into the profiler. If the tool deems it relevant, 
 it will analyze that evidence and give some insight into the characteristics of the suspect, like 
 race, gender, personality, and that sort of thing. When you have all the evidence inserted, you 
 can start throwing suspects at it, and it'll tell you how likely or unlikely it is that that person 
 committed the crime. After you have a solid suspect, you can apply for search and arrest warrants. 
 This is all a great idea, especially since the old games had rather opaque terms for getting warrants. 
 The one problem, though, is that sometimes you'll get pretty much all the important characteristics 
 fairly early in the case. So when the tool's telling you that a male did the crime, and you're 
 still tracking down a female suspect, it kind of renders those portions of the story just a bit 
 dull, since you already know they probably didn't do it.  

          Were it not for the constant fear of crash bugs around every corner, parts of Criminal 
 Intent could have been almost, maybe, kind of fun.     

  In its presentation, Criminal Intent is kind of all over the place. The environments are fairly 
 well crafted, with plenty of little, subtle details all over the place, and proper aesthetics for 
 the atmospheres they're trying to create. The people who occupy those environments, however, are 
 flat-out ugly. Goren shows the most detail of any of the bunch, but even he looks blocky and gross. 
 Every character model is extremely aliased, with jagged lines clearly separating them from the 
 background environments. And then there are the ultra-broken animations, which include no transitional 
 animations of any kind, frequent glitches, and purely stilted movements. The audio is a little 
 bit better, fortunately. Both Vincent D'Onofrio and Jamey Sheridan reprise their roles from the 
 show. Sheridan's altogether decent, but D'Onofrio dead-reads his way through the entire script. 
 He tries to do his off-kilter inflections for the character, but it's all so flat and boring that 
 he might as well have not even shown up. Thankfully, the supporting actors pick up some of the 
 slack, and the game does have a decent, if generic, soundtrack.  

  Law &amp; Order: Criminal Intent seemingly has its heart in the right place, but the onslaught 
 of technical gaffes, ill-conceived mechanics, and lazy interfaces pretty much put a knife through 
 that heart. Every piece of Criminal Intent feels severely rushed and bereft of care. It's really 
 too bad, as Legacy had built up some solid momentum with the last two Law &amp; Order games. Now 
 it'll be back to the drawing board, it seems.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Topaz989
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 1, 2008 6:37 am PT
Review:  I encountered this game at the library and decided to borrow it. Despite not spending one cent, 
 I still regretted it. This game should have been good for those who like point and click as well 
 as the show. The voice acting is pretty good and some of the puzzles were good. However the amount 
 of glitches and bugs simply ruin the fun. Take for instance the simple act of walking to a person 
 and talking to them. Well after you click on the person you want, they will go up and do this stupid 
 thing where they would turn over and over. Before the patch, they would keep turning for an indefinite 
 amount of times. Afterwards, up to five times before they start talking. That's right, the patch 
 makes it "less broken" then actually fixing it. But that's just annoying. There really are parts 
 that are simply broken without a patch.
  
  Take for instance a puzzle that has five colored squares. Your job is to manipulate them to turn 
 to green. It was difficult but not impossible... unless you didn't patch the game. I spent a long 
 time on that puzzle, until I was forced to go online for a solution (something I don't like to 
 do) . I did the solution and the puzzle still wasn't solved. After I found out there was a THIRD 
 version of the patch, I got that and the solution worked. 
  
  Lets move on to other aspects of the game. The graphics are pleasing enough and the menu is well 
 organized. As mentioned above, I liked the sound and voice acting. They did alot to make it feel 
 like the show. The music is very calm and won't annoy you. If it does, you have the ability to 
 turn it off. When the game is not all glitchy, I had a great time and I enjoyed the game. 
  
  With all the glitches, naturally you'd want to save a lot. Unfortunately the save system is 
 very annoying (especially if you want to load something) . When you save, it will show you the image 
 of the background and you can give it a title. That part is okay. When you come back to load, that 
 will be all you see, a background image and whatever title. There is no option to delete old saves, 
 they are there forever. I used up about 25 for my first case. Take that number, and times it by 
 4 cases. Normally I would save less but, you can't do that unless something happens and you want 
 to be forced to go a long ways to fix it. 
  
  I really wanted to like this game, and I did have fun when there weren't any problems. However, 
 there were so many problems in this game. If you intend to play this game here is some advice: 
 
  
  -Get the latest patches: The version I have is 1.3
  -Save often and name them something manageable (Like case1_1) , case1_2.
  -If the main character 
 is having trouble walking to the person, try clicking in the ass. I'm actually being serious, for 
 some reason the best hot spot to talk to someone is somewhere in the crotch, ass area. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angelwings1818
Rating: 2.8
Date: Sep 25, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  The Biggest Problem: BUGS
  
  The game is full of bugs. The patches won't help either. The biggest challenge of the game is just 
 getting it to work. You have to save it every few minutes or risk losing your progress. The graphics 
 are pathetic. Unlike the other Law and Order games, you do not prosecute the criminals. I bought 
 the game thinking it would be like the other Law and Order games, which I enjoyed, but its very 
 different. You are playing third person (which is usually my favorite, but I don't think it fits 
 well in crime mysteries) . It's almost as if it was made by a completely different company and I 
 was surprised to realize it wasn't. I think the company really slacked off this time and figured 
 the name would sell it. Overall, I just played the game because I considered it a waste of money 
 to not and I was glad when it was over. If I knew what a mess it was, I wouldn't of ever bought 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZhugeMarc
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 15, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of the Criminal Intent TV series. Vince D'Onofrio is a god in my eyes. 
  
  Which is why I was more than disappointed when I finally received my imported copy of Law & Order: 
 Criminal Intent. The demo had me in high hopes; I had played another Law & Order game (Justice 
 Is Served) and was pleased with how it turned out. Now the chance to actually control Robert Goren 
 instead of an unnamed detective was available.
  
  After a while of playing, you can tell this game has a lot of problems. It crashes frequently, 
 the save system needs a lot of work and there are numerous other bugs - at times, you can't click 
 on a certain thing, or Goren will start walking towards the right side of the screen and remain 
 stuck there until you reload. 
  
  The plot of the game is also a problem; it seems to specifically target fans of the TV series. 
 The eventual villain of the game, Nicole Wallace, will hold almost no significance to those who 
 have never watched at least two series of the show. 
  
  Overall, this game could have been so much better. Some tweaks and changes to a few elements and 
 Criminal Intent could have been an adventure game any fan of the genre should have. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: beanhead1274
Rating: 5.2
Date: Apr 21, 2006 6:50 am PT
Review:  First I couldn't get the graphics right but I fixed that. I couldn't get into the none of the stories. 
 I can only play about 3 hours at a time. This is how long this game keeps my attention. I don't 
 like the way the people look either. I like the other law and orders better but will let my daughter 
 play this one. Hopefully they will make another one with better story lines. I only had this game 
 for about 2 weeks. I usually have the cases solved by now. I have to take my time with this one. 
 I hope I can get into it a little more but I don't think I will. I guess it is because I had a 
 hard time getting it to run right that I lost interest in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 15, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Ok... Once again this game is all about finding clues and talking to people about the crimes and 
 also working at the crime lab. I love the CSI games and although the graphics and sound are a little 
 better on this game plus you do have a few more things you can do it did not stack up. The players 
 are hard to lead around the crime sceans because instead on the point and click where you want 
 to go you have to walk him there. He doesn't always go where you like and it get boring after a 
 while. This game was ok but not as good as I hoped. Most of my reviews talk about the prices of 
 games and that is because like everything they cost money are most of the time are not very cheap. 
 I want everyone to get a good deal on their games because as we all know they add up! This game 
 I paid 30.00 and not long after it was down to $20.00. $20.00 is an ok price for this game but 
 could find for much less used on ebay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellrazor555
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 27, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  What happened to mary, a tire hit her in the face. What was she doing putting her face near a tire. 
 No this tire hunted mary down. That should have been a crime in the game. This game needed more 
 of everything. Not a lot of thought was put into this game. I like cats. They just threw this game 
 together in a day and said "This is going to sell like halo 2." Wow were they wrong. What were 
 they thinking. Bad job on this game. Ok im going now to eat french vanilla ice cream with butter 
 and watermelon. oh and yes bookie owns everyone even your cat. If you value your left shoe you 
 will stop reading this and run outside screaming that you like french vanilla ice cream with butter. 
 Purple cows. WOOT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfkain
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 19, 2006 3:36 am PT
Review:  Unlike previous Law & order titles, Criminal Intent inherits third-person perspective gameplay 
 which is really annoying as you play.
  
  If you think graphics are going to be better on this title, well you think wrong.
  Graphics are 
 very poor including animation.
  
  The interface has a serious problem. The active cursor, which lets you know when you can examine 
 an item, looks way too similar to the neutral cursor. This way you can miss important clues. Prepare 
 for pixel-hunting.
  
  The greatest weakness is the game itself. The design makes it unique but also obstruct the non-accustomed 
 gamer.
  
  The gamer will get borred pretty fast.
  
  A friently advice: Keep your money and buy a truly adventure game unless you are a fun of Law & 
 order TV-Series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mumoto
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jan 8, 2006 11:33 pm PT
Review:  When you start the game you can pick between a few crimes, so I picked one and started off playing.
 
  
  While playing the character seemed to annoyingly walk in circles, almost incontrollable sometimes, 
 when you misclick near a stairs he walks up and ends up frustrating you by wasting another minute 
 of waiting till you're back.
  
  Graphics are improving in lots of games especially action, so you'd expect that non-action games 
 like this one should have atleast graphics that rival that even if they are not in the same genre, 
 the graphics are simply said lame, I think that this was possible in 2002 lol.
  
  The sound in this game annoys you to hell eventually, made me turn off all sounds in the game and 
 turn on some good music.
  
  People should not buy this game if they're expecting something alike "CSI" like I did, because 
 you will be dissapointed.
  
  I have only one good thing to say about this game, the puzzles are pretty hard even on easy-mode, 
 like the box where you had to get the key out.
  
  Well I finished the puzzle and spotted the painting of it in the house, kinda funny that I did 
 not see it before.
  
  I ended up not even finishing that crime because the controllability in this game was pretty crap, 
 and I hate it when something is hard to control.
  
  If I were you keep your money in your pocket and wait for the new CSI game, or just try a good 
 RPG game for a change.
  
  Ja ne~! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
