-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Law & Order II: Double or Nothing
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/laworder2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 14, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 6.9, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 99 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Legacy Interactive
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Sep 30, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you have even a passing interest in Law & Order, you should give Double or Nothing a look.

  The level of success that Dick Wolf's  Law &amp; Order  franchise has enjoyed is actually pretty 
 staggering. The original series launched in 1990 and since then has become one of the most beloved 
 crime dramas on television, spawning two successful spin-off series and helping to make household 
 names out of actors like Jerry Orbach, Sam Waterston, Benjamin Bratt, Angie Harmon, Jill Hennessy, 
 and Michael Moriarty. Last year, the franchise branched out into the realm of PC gaming with Vivendi 
 Universal and Legacy Interactive's Law &amp; Order: Dead on the Money, an interactive mystery that 
 let you take the reins of both the detective in charge of a murder and the prosecutor charged with 
 putting the perp behind bars. At its core, Dead on the Money was a simple adventure game with some 
 irritating structuring problems and decent, though uninspired, presentational aspects. The follow-up 
 to Dead on the Money is Law &amp; Order II: Double or Nothing, and, for better or for worse, the 
 sequel has a style and methodology that are similar to the original. However, a far more engaging 
 storyline and a less-intensive reliance on the player's knowledge of legal procedures definitely 
 makes Double or Nothing a better game.  

          The cast of  Law &amp; Order  returns in Double or Nothing to help you solve the murder 
 of a famous genetic scientist.     

  Like its predecessor, Law &amp; Order II is structured exactly like the show. The game opens with 
 the seemingly random shooting of a famed scientist on a busy New York street. Initially, your task 
 will be to partner with longtime  Law &amp; Order  mainstay Detective Lennie Briscoe (Jerry Orbach's 
 character) so you can put the pieces together as to what happened. You'll need to collect evidence 
 at the crime scene and send it off to the crime lab for analysis. You'll then have to interview 
 witnesses, as well as perform background research into these witnesses. Periodically you'll have 
 to place surveillance officers on their tails. Once you've done some digging, you'll then have 
 to collect your evidence and put together search and arrest warrants.  

  With a suspect in custody, the game's focus then shifts to the prosecution. You'll take the evidence 
 collected in the first half and try to make a case against your suspect by subpoenaing witnesses 
 and deciding what evidence you'll need in court. Once you're in court, you'll have to question 
 experts and witnesses, trying to prove beyond a shadow of a doubt that your case is as solid as 
 possible. The defense will try to cross-examine your witnesses, and, in so doing, they will attempt 
 to undermine your case. Here's where things may get tricky, as you'll have to know when to object 
 to questions asked by the defense. Objectionable questions are wide and varied, but they are usually 
 made obvious by notable shifts in tone from the defense attorney. Likewise, the defense will object 
 if you ask the wrong types of questions. You'll also still have some investigative work ahead of 
 you, as not every aspect of your case will come together properly. This means that you'll periodically 
 have to find new evidence, as well as new witnesses.  

  Each of the tasks ahead of you can be made simpler by selecting from a list of skills at the beginning 
 of the game. Skills include teamwork, which provides you with hints from your superiors about what 
 direction you should take your case next; interview skills, which eliminate unneeded questions 
 from your available selection, making interviews more expedient and to the point; case organization, 
 which gives you tips on which pieces of evidence and testimony are key to getting a needed warrant 
 or subpoena; and evidence collection, which prompts a magnifying glass icon over your cursor to 
 signify items that might be worth collecting. You'll only have two to choose from, and, unfortunately, 
 you may find yourself partially into the game when suddenly you realize that you didn't choose 
 one of the skills you need most to help you. Sadly, the only way to switch skills is to start the 
 game over from the beginning.  

  Despite this one limitation, however, Double or Nothing is a much less restrictive game than its 
 predecessor. For one, the game has no time limitations to speak of, whereas before you had only 
 a four-day window in which to complete your investigation of the crime. Additionally, the game's 
 legal interface has been simplified so that you don't have to know much in the way of legal mumbo 
 jumbo to get through a trial. Occasionally, situations will pop up where, during the trial, a piece 
 of evidence may be challenged by the defense because of one rule of admission or another. You'll 
 then have to explain to the judge why the piece of evidence is admissible, based on some sort of 
 legal loophole. Thankfully, as with the game's interview process, you'll have three options to 
 choose from, and the correct option is usually the most logical sounding one. If you do get it 
 wrong, you can always go back from your last save and try again.  

  What is really best about Double or Nothing is its plot. The storyline is rife with twists and 
 turns, and it even features an underlying theme one could even coin as "ripped from the headlines." 
 Much like in the TV show, not everything in the game is as it seems, and you'll constantly have 
 to keep tabs on all of your witnesses to keep track of who is really telling the truth and who 
 is hiding something. Additionally, when prosecuting your case, you won't just have a cut-and-dried 
 case, as key pieces of your evidence may be thrown out of court because it was collected without 
 a search warrant. The defense may even introduce elements you weren't aware of to attack your proposed 
 motive. At times, the story does seem to get a bit bogged down by its own convolutions, but, ultimately, 
 it's an excellent interpretation of the show's style of storytelling.  

          Double or Nothing is a far less restrictive game than its predecessor, and, in turn, it's 
 much more fun to play.     

  In terms of presentation, Law &amp; Order II is practically identical to last year's game in every 
 way. The game uses the same menu system and overall visual layout as before, and the same type 
 of 3D models are used for each character. This is not a bad thing, by any means, as the game does 
 look pretty decent, but a bit more of a visual upgrade would have certainly been welcomed. Jerry 
 Orbach, Elizabeth Rhm, and S. Epatha Merkerson all reprise their roles, and, for the most 
 part, they do a convincing job (although Rhm is more than a bit wooden in her line delivery) . 
 The supporting voice talent is of equal capacity, if not superior in some cases, and the game's 
 soundtrack is nicely varied depending on where you are.  

  Law &amp; Order II is ultimately the same basic game as the first Law &amp; Order title, but the 
 bulk of the gameplay issues found in the first release have been addressed here in the second one. 
 Double or Nothing is legitimately challenging and intriguing, which makes for a more enjoyable 
 experience all around. Make no mistake, the game certainly won't appeal to everyone. Diehard adventure 
 game fans may find Law &amp; Order a bit too single-minded for their tastes, but any fan of  Law 
 &amp; Order  will find plenty of elements to appreciate about Double or Nothing. If you have even 
 a passing interest in the show, you should at least give Law &amp; Order II: Double or Nothing 
 a look.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 11, 2006 9:37 pm PT
Review:  I don't watch too much Television. I think most of it is rubbish. I'll watch news and sport, but 
 not much else. However, I have always enjoyed watching Law and Order. It's a slick, well produced 
 show that provides plenty of twists and turns, despite the fact they always get the bad guy. The 
 show made it to the PC gaming market with 'Law and Order - Dead on the Money', and 'Law and Order 
 II - Double or Nothing' is the second game of the TV series. It has everything you would expect 
 from a game of the show. Its smart, well developed, has a great story line and an enjoyable gaming 
 experience. But it's over when it's over and it doesn't take so long.
  
  Like the show, there are two parts to the game - the investigation and the prosecution. You team 
 up with Lanny Briscoe to investigate the murder of a revered scientist in broad daylight on a busy 
 suburban street. This basically involves looking for evidence (and having the evidence forensically 
 examined or checked for clues) , talking to suspects and witnesses and then preparing your cases 
 notes for search warrants and ultimately an arrest. Once the arrest is made the prosecution phase 
 begins. Whilst this is primarily a courtroom scenario with witness presentation, cross examination 
 and 'OBJECTION! there still is some investigating to do. Whilst you can't really 'lose' the game 
 in the investigation area, if you don't prepare the case correctly, the accused will walk free. 
 The game provides plenty of aids and the rule of law to assist you in the whole case, which should 
 keep any person on track.
  
  The graphics do their job quite nicely. The graphical representation is sharp with characters and 
 areas well defined and created. This is a not a game where 'frames-per-second' of HDR is important, 
 but it gets everything it needs to get right. The Non-Playing Characters (NPC's) look like people 
 and the folk from the show look very similar. The graphical interface in uncomplicated and well 
 presented, though sometimes when 'examining' a scene it was difficult to get the pointer exactly 
 to an area or a piece of evidence. But all up, the graphics are just fine, without being groundbreaking.
 
  
  The sounds are also solid, without being complicated. On the whole, the voice acting of the NPC's 
 and those in the show are convincing and well delivered. An exception is that of prosecutor who 
 actually sounds a bit nervous when delivering her lines. Quite odd. There are some sparse ambient 
 sounds, and the usual Law and Order sound effects which all fit into the pace and mood of the game.
 
  
  The gameplay is lifted by a quality storyline that would do justice to any Law and Order television 
 show. There are more twists and turns than a corkscrew and it is an intelligent and even conscience-questioning 
 story. There are dozens of witnesses to talk to, and you can use forensic analysis, records analysis 
 or surveillance to assist your investigation. You cannot really 'lose' in the investigation part 
 of the game. If you don't have enough evidence for a search or arrest warrant you'll be sent back 
 out onto the streets to look for more clues. The game does come with some help in the form of specialist 
 skills which make certain parts of your investigation easier. Your case file is easy to manage 
 (unless you pick up every bit of trash on the street and in the homes) and it is a logical progression 
 to the arrest. There is no time limit, so there is plenty of scope for trial and error. And you 
 get given score once this has been achieved for posterity.
  
  However, the bar is raised for the prosecution side of things. You have to get this right, otherwise 
 you suspect will work out the door. There is plenty of text to assist you in preparing the case, 
 but ultimately, you have to present the witnesses and the evidence relevant to the case before 
 the court. The defence lawyer will do his best to stymie your case and crucial evidence will be 
 discarded (part of the game) that makes your job more difficult. Youll need to ask the right questions, 
 raise the right objections and present the right evidence to keep the court case alive. However, 
 in between court sessions there is opportunity for more investigation and it will become apparent 
 as play who crucial this is. You will find the evidence that makes the case, but it still needs 
 to be presented to court correctly. The prosecution phase is more challenging and rewarding when 
 completed (I failed it once!) and even if you have no idea of how this court system works, there 
 are enough notes and aids to get you through it. Just make sure you have all you evidence before 
 you go back to court! Another score is given upon completion, something we all like. Probably the 
 biggest drawback for the game is its length and lack of replayability. It took me about eight hours 
 one lazy Sunday afternoon to complete. Further, once it's finished, that's it. No replayability 
 whatsoever. However, it is a very involving and enjoyable game for the eight hours or so it lasts.
 
  
  I purchased the game for AUD$10 (second hand) and that is decent value for money. You could do 
 a lot worse with your money. I enjoyed the change of pace from the frenetic actions games that 
 I have played of late.
  
  Law and Order II - Double or Nothing is worthwhile for any person who likes the Law and Order TV 
 show, likes 'playing the detective' or perhaps for adventure game enthusiasts. It is an honorable 
 representation of one of the better TV shows and it will keep you interested with its smart storyline 
 and sharp presentation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 17, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  This game came out a while back but for the most part was a little better then I thought. Granted 
 I paid only $6.00 at the Dollar Store for this game. You go to crime scenes and find clues to the 
 and then go to the lab. You ask questions to help you with your case but the part I liked the most 
 about his game is that you also get to go to court and try the case as well. The graphics are pretty 
 good not great and the sound is good as well. If you can get this game used or on sale I say go 
 for it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 13, 2005 6:41 am PT
Review:  I am not much of a fan of adventure games, but I bought this because my fiance loves Law & Order, 
 and this is a game that we could play together. Its a fun game and it has a good story to it, 
 and its also a very authentic game that pays homage to the series. It still falls into a lot of 
 the same pitfalls as most adventure games though. Whether or not to recommend this game is simple: 
 if you like the show, youll probably like the game.
  
  The game mechanics and interface are nothing really new. When you investigate crimes, you view 
 the world like you would in a Myst game. You move your mouse around and a context-sensitive pointer 
 on the screen lets you either examine stuff or move to another area. You pick up evidence to be 
 examined later or used somewhere else. Like all games of this type, there is the occasional pixel 
 hunt. There is also the occasional trial-and-error click until you guess it right moment, and 
 some annoying leaps of logic that will probably require you to use a walkthrough. But overall, 
 solving the crime in the game is a satisfying experience that will keep you guessing.
  
  Perhaps the games greatest strength is that it is a very authentic representation of the show. 
 The story is very good and it has a couple of interesting twists in it. You will be guessing up 
 until the end. I could easily see the plot for this game as an actual episode. For the first half 
 of the game, you play as Jerry Orbach (Lennie Briscoe) investigating the crime and collecting evidence. 
 For the second half of the game, you play as Elizabeth Rohm prosecuting the crime. All of the actors 
 from, the show voice their parts. Its nice to hear Jerry Orbach again. The graphics are serviceable, 
 but they arent great. They are kind of muddy and outdated. Jerry Orbach looks pretty good, but 
 Elizabeth Rohm looks nothing like her actual self. 
  
  The game takes about 10 or 12 hours to play through all the way. Once you finish it, theres no 
 reason to go back and play it again. It would have been nice if the game could have been a bit 
 more open-ended and less linear, and if it had broken out of the typical trappings of ordinary 
 adventure games. Nonetheless, its a very good game for Law and Order fans, and if you watch the 
 show a lot, you can and should buy it cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: normal01
Rating: 2.8
Date: Oct 17, 2003 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Now here is a game that falls short on every imaginable aspect. This game progression is slow, 
 the characters are incredibly boring. I cannot believe that I spent 50$CND on this game. I feel 
 sorry for the developers who had to work on such a boring project. Perhaps some games are not meant 
 to be. Law and Order II : Double or Nothing, I would definitely pick nothing ! Now if you will 
 excuse me I have to go back to my software retailer and hopefully I will be able to get my money 
 back. If they do not give my money back, I will invent a new Olympic discipline called : "Toss 
 the crap". 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
