-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Leadfoot
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/leadfoot/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  7, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 7.0, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 33 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: WizardWorks
Developer: Ratbag
Genre: Rally / Offroad Racing
Date:     May 28, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Fans of arcade-style racing games should probably steer clear of Leadfoot, but dedicated racing 
 fans will find in it a serious challenge and an opportunity to exhibit their finely honed driving 
 skills. 

  The developers at Ratbag are best known for producing fast-paced, realistic driving games, as with 
 their budget-priced Dirt Track Racing series. Ratbag's Leadfoot continues in this tradition: It's 
 an inexpensive game that features a highly realistic physics engine and a wealth of options to 
 keep even the most ardent automotive fan happy. However, this emphasis on realism may come at the 
 cost of entertainment value for some players, as both novices and even expert drivers alike will 
 find that Leadfoot can be a frustrating experience because of the game's high difficulty level. 
 Most of this difficulty comes from Leadfoot's steep learning curve and punishing computer drivers. 
 Leadfoot's multiplayer mode also seems unpolished, making it difficult to set up a race against 
 less formidable human opponents. Even so, Leadfoot should appeal to serious driving enthusiasts, 
 including fans of Ratbag's previous driving games.           Leadfoot features a variety of trucks, 
 tracks, and upgrade options...    

  Leadfoot offers all of the standard features of a driving game. The quick-race mode lets you jump 
 into a vehicle, select a track, and start a race right away. This mode works well for practicing 
 against computer opponents and for getting a feel for Leadfoot's difficult career mode. In the 
 career mode, you have to buy a bare-bones sport truck or stadium-lite car, either of which you 
 can eventually upgrade with better parts or an entirely new vehicle, assuming you can win races 
 and earn enough money to do so. The number of customization options in Leadfoot's career mode is 
 staggering, as nearly every aspect of vehicle performance -- including wheels, suspension, and drive 
 train -- can be tweaked and manipulated through a series of suboptions. You can even select from 
 different color schemes to change your car's outside appearance. If you're not well versed in automotive 
 terminology, then most of these options probably aren't going be very appealing, and adjusting 
 them might have a detrimental effect on your driving. But if you're serious about driving, you'll 
 have fun making adjustments to all the cars. Another good feature in the career mode is that you 
 can gain support from sponsors and thus make a little more money, but again, you need to exhibit 
 solid driving skills before any of the sponsors will offer contracts.   

  Once you're actually in a race, it quickly becomes apparent that Leadfoot demands considerable 
 time and effort from you to become even an adequate driver -- more so than in a typical driving game. 
 Not only do you need to learn the basic techniques required, but you also have to perfect them 
 before you can win any of the major races. For example, learning to powerslide is a crucial driving 
 skill, but the fact that computer opponents are constantly beating you in the turns -- even when 
 you're making quick slides -- reveals that you have to time your breaking and acceleration very precisely 
 to stay in the pack. You'll find that even when you mimic the computer drivers' moves, they'll 
 always seem to get a slight speed boost and still come out ahead of you.   

  While the physics in Leadfoot seem very realistic, they can make playing the game very difficult, 
 as collisions with other cars or walls can cause your vehicle to get thrown about wildly -- and recovery 
 from such collisions isn't easy. The unpredictable nature of collisions in Leadfoot makes it tough 
 to adopt a strategy for being an aggressive driver, which is another skill that's necessary to 
 win races.           ... and a realistic physics model that makes the game a real challenge.    
 

  Visually, Leadfoot does enough to create an acceptable driving environment, but it lacks some of 
 the visual flair that's found in other recent driving games. Textures on cars and on surrounding 
 objects appear muddy and washed out. Trackside detail is also disappointing, as you'll find only 
 a few cardboard-cutout people lining the tracks, along with some support vehicles. The stadiums 
 are impressive, but the crowd that populates them is flat, giving the game a rather stale look. 
 The car models are similar in that the cars themselves are modeled quite well, but the drivers 
 inside look very plain.   

  Leadfoot's learning curve is steep, and it takes a while before your driving skills will reach 
 a point that you can actually win races and progress through the career mode at a steady pace. 
 Even on the easiest settings, it's still very difficult to place well in a race. If the computer 
 opponents prove too difficult, Leadfoot does have multiplayer racing that's supported by game server 
 utilities, but there are still some bugs associated with joining games. It's also disappointing 
 that there's hardly any music in the game, and having only the sound of tires on dirt as well as 
 the constant growl of engines can start to wear on you after a while. Fans of arcade-style racing 
 games should probably steer clear of Leadfoot, but dedicated racing fans will find in it a serious 
 challenge and an opportunity to exhibit their finely honed driving skills.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: noblepuker
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  People, keep in mind, this is an old game (2001) . I run a three PC LAN. My friends are allways wanting 
 to race leadfoot (and i have lotsa other racing titles) . The grafs are 3D, but dated. We all know 
 grafs are just part of the package, some of the best games have so-so grafs. You can race trucks 
 or buggys. Multiple views are avaliable (even has replays) . I like the 'cockpit' veiw, I can see my 
 dash, hood, and parts of the rollcage... very nice. I read the other reviews, shadow is right about 
 it feeling like your on ice (it's mud) . It's tricky to drive, but once you master throttle control 
 it's great. The system requirements are low, so blow the dust of your old compaq and throw it on 
 the LAN. Single player is hard. We just play multiplayer. The game could use some refinement... i wish 
 wizardworks would make Leadfoot II and address the imperfections. I still play this game even though 
 i have a fast PC capable of playing ANY game. You can't go wrong with leadfoot. Go drop the whopping 
 $10 and buy it.
  
  Simulator junky 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rkipker
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  I found this game a few years ago.... may not even be available any longer! But if you can find 
 it... and you like racing games... BUY IT!!!
  
  Easy to setup, runs in most Window formats...98, 200, ME and XP. The game gets you right into racing... 
 easy to learn hard to master.
  
  I love racing games and wish Ratbag or someone would make a good Truck racing game with today's 
 technology. CORR is a huge hit on SPEED Channel... but no one wants to make the game.
  
  I don't think if you're looking for a fun Truck Racing "PC" game that different you'll be disappointed. 
 But please do remember.. this is an OLD game 2001 and the graphics are from that time... a little 
 simple!
  
  Hope this review helped anyone looking for a cheap racer.
  RKip
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowclaw87
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 26, 2006 1:56 am PT
Review:  Im used to playing rally games such as Colin McRae Rally 4, and an old favorite Rally Championship. 
 I consider my self an advanced player in this area, but not pro. The driving control physics in 
 this game are totally awful, compared to these games and others Ive tried on PC as well as several 
 consol systems. No matter what difficulty settings you use, how you customize each vehicle, or 
 how skilled you are, all you do is slide around like your driving on slick ice. This game is awful. 
 Total waste of my time and money. Usually the reviews here at Gamespot. com are dead on, but this 
 time they were way off.
  
  The difficulty of a serious driving game isnt determined by how much you slide around, and how 
 hard it is to regain control of a vehicle while driving in mud. Its determined by your knowledge 
 of vehicles, what modifications you make and how it effects the handling and performance of your 
 vehicle, how damage effects the performance of vehicles, how skilled you are at using your gears, 
 the break, and of course the gas, your driving strategies against other cars, among countless other 
 things. The only thing that makes this game difficult is how much you slide around and run into 
 things.. This does not make a challenging and fun game. All it does is waste your money and hours 
 of your time, and frustrate you to no end!
  
  On another note, I found the lack of music irritating as the sound of engines and mud gets very 
 repetitive and annoying. The few sound effects this game has are unimpressive and just looped over 
 and over.
  
  There were also only two game play modes, quick race and career. I thought this was really skimpy 
 and there's nothing addictive about this game that keeps you hooked. The graphics are drab at best 
 and the models are very blocky looking and simplistic. Even for a game made in 2001, the graphics 
 stink on ice. I have a pile of games released between 1996 and 2001, and most of them have better 
 graphics than this game.
  
  Hell, Rally Championship, which was released back in 1996, is six years older than this slop, yet 
 its still ten times better! If you see an unused or used version of Leadfood, don't get it. It'll 
 just be a waste of your time and money. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
