-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Left 4 Dead
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/left4dead/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Dynamic enemy placement make each play-through different.
 Tight controls and well-tuned guns.
 Stiff challenge makes survival difficult and thrilling.
 Versus mode expertly turns the tables.
 Killing survivors is as fun as killing zombies (if not more so).
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Campaign is less fun when played alone.
 Only four campaign maps.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 20, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.9, 42 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 3,804 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Valve Software
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Nov 18, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Left 4 Dead makes both sides of the zombie apocalypse a thrill to experience, as long as you're 
 not alone. 

  The zombie apocalypse. Be honest: You've thought about it. When most humans have been turned into 
 shambling, flesh-hungry monsters, how will you fare? Whether you fancy yourself an intrepid survivor 
 or an infected savage, Left 4 Dead is the game for you. Battling your way through the grim, desolate 
 world is always tense and challenging, thanks to the unpredictable, relentless enemies. It's equally 
 thrilling to play as one of the zombies (aka the infected) , coordinating deadly ambushes as you 
 try to kill the survivors. Nevertheless, Left 4 Dead's well-crafted gameplay simply must be experienced 
 in multiplayer. Human teammates (or enemies) make each play-through dynamic, mitigating the game's 
 two hang-ups: limited map selection and uninspired friendly AI. Despite these hitches, Left 4 Dead 
 is a remarkably fun, excitingly tense game that will make you want to revisit the apocalypse again 
 and again.  

           The zombie electrician's union won't be happy about this one.      

  There are four 
 campaigns in Left 4 Dead, each spanning five levels. The first four levels end in safe houses (places 
 to heal and rearm free of the zombie menace) , and the final level ends in a desperate stand as 
 you wait for your rescue vehicle to arrive. You'll travel through urban, suburban, and rural areas, 
 each one grim, desolate, and littered with evidence of the apocalyptic event. You never learn exactly 
 what happened, but the rich environments and thoughtful graffiti set the stage expertly. One campaign 
 on normal difficulty (the second of four tiers) takes about an hour to complete, so you'll soon 
 become familiar with each set of maps. Although the limited selection and grim, overcast color 
 palette can sometimes feel a bit repetitious, the dynamic enemies, varying weapon and ammo spawns, 
 and ever-changing human factor combine to make each play-through feel surprisingly unique.  

  Left 4 Dead stars four charismatic survivors whose appearances and personalities add an immersive 
 element to the game. They each banter in appropriate, often amusing ways when healthy, and they 
 become more subdued and anxious when injured. The character models are top-notch, and there's nothing 
 quite like looking at the macho biker when he is injured and seeing fear creep across his face 
 as he begins to doubt that he'll survive. Seeing the relief on his face when you heal him is almost 
 as satisfying as the relief you'll feel when your AI allies heal you. Their team spirit doesn't 
 stop there: they'll shout out when the find ammo or health, and, crucially, will pick you up when 
 you've been incapacitated by an enemy.  

  For all of their good qualities, you'll definitely appreciate your fellow survivors more when there's 
 human controlling them. AI teammates are definitely competent when it comes to killing the infected, 
 rescuing you from the enemy's clutches, and reviving you when you're down. However, they aren't 
 particularly keen on using explosives or defending strategically, so while you choose to camp out 
 on an elevated platform to better defend against the horde, they generally won't be inclined to 
 join you. Though you can certainly end up with equally uncooperative human teammates, you can at 
 least communicate your strategy to them or, in a pinch, call an on-the-fly vote to boot them from 
 the game.  

           The hunting rifle is particularly deadly with a keyboard and mouse.      

  When you 
 play with one or more competent teammates, Left 4 Dead is an absolute blast. Even if you've played 
 every level many times, you'll still find the infected are distributed in different, unpredictable 
 patterns. They may be milling around in a parking lot, half-oblivious to your passing, or they 
 may come screaming at you from around a corner or over a building. They look nasty, run fast, scream 
 hideously, claw viciously, and, best of all, they die in a wide variety of superbly animated ways 
 (often with explosive decapitations or flying limbs) . You might get jumped in a hallway, stairwell, 
 both, or neither. Each area of the level becomes a potential battleground, so you have to be constantly 
 vigilant, ready to make a defensive stand or rescue a teammate at a moment's notice.  

  The difficulty changes as you play. The game throws tougher, more numerous foes at dominant survivors 
 and offers periods of respite or more frequent resupply to beleaguered teams. You carry one primary 
 weapon, like a shotgun or assault rifle, as well as one (or two) pistols with unlimited ammunition. 
 You can also pick up pipe bombs and molotov cocktails, which are each fantastically deadly in their 
 own unique ways. These powerful explosives, along with primary weapon ammo and health boosts, are 
 vital to your survival. However, supplies are often hidden in rooms that are slightly off the beaten 
 path, and slowing down to explore more areas will put you at higher risk for a zombie attack. This 
 risk-reward element adds another strategic consideration, which further ramps up the tension. There 
 are so many ways that your journey could go awry, from human error to strategic miscalculation 
 to flat-out zombie inundation, that you'll have to be constantly on your toes to adapt if you hope 
 to survive. It is this tension that keeps each campaign uniquely challenging and makes survival 
 so fantastically rewarding.  

  Of course, your goal isn't always survival. When you play Versus mode, it is often the exact opposite. 
 Two teams of up to four players each compete for points in this mode. Survivors earn points by 
 progressing through the campaigns, though only two of the four are playable in this mode. The infected 
 earn points by damaging and killing survivors, and the teams switch sides at the end of each level. 
 Furthermore, the infected players spawn as zombies with special powers. Boomers vomit on survivors, 
 marking them as targets for the ravenous horde of normal zombies; smokers lasso survivors with 
 a long, froglike tongue; hunters pounce and viciously tear survivors apart; and the rare tank just 
 smashes everyone with his massive bulk. It's frightening enough to encounter these uniquely deadly 
 enemies in the campaign mode, dealing with their disgusting sounds and vicious attacks that seem 
 to come at the worst times. It's a whole different level of horror when you know it's your friend 
 who has pinned you down and is clawing out your guts.  

           'Tis better to gut than to be gutted.      

  For survivors, Versus mode is a faster-paced 
 game because the longer you take, the more opportunities the infected have to ambush you. For the 
 infected, it's a whole different Left 4 Dead experience. Instead of fighting your way through an 
 endless, nebulous enemy force as you drive toward your objective, you have to plan and execute 
 targeted strikes on a small, mobile group. The areas you once plotted to defend now become grounds 
 for ambush. There are even certain walls that the infected can climb or break through, creating 
 entirely new routes for moving through each level. Zombie players have to be careful because they 
 are much weaker than survivors and can easily fall victim to bullets from any of the game's well-tuned 
 weapons. However, they will continue to spawn until the survivors die or reach safety, so they 
 have multiple opportunities to spring attacks throughout the level. It's very satisfying to vomit 
 on your survivor friends, summoning the horde to devour them. It's a whole different level of awesomeness 
 to drag them out of the resulting chaos and slowly choke them to death as they desperately call 
 for help.  

  Between the tense campaign and the frenetic Versus mode, Left 4 Dead offers two distinct flavors 
 of multiplayer action that are equally delicious when enjoyed with friends. The single-player experience 
 (and the marginally better but somewhat sluggish split-screen mode) isn't as tasty, simply because 
 the friendly AI can't compare to a human teammate. Between play sessions, you may find yourself 
 craving more maps, but once you're in the game, you'll be so consumed by your quest to survive 
 that you'll likely be grateful for your knowledge of the terrain. It's a tricky proposition for 
 a game to serve up such seemingly meager variety, but Left 4 Dead does so with panache, and gamers 
 will likely be enjoying this recipe for a long time.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (263 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: slammers722
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 14, 2009 4:38 pm PT
Review:  This game has a stupid steam engine. For the people who don't know what that means it means online 
 activation. Because of the online activation I'm giving this game a raing of 1.0 I would give it 
 a rating of 0.1 if I could but I can't. A tip for any game designer is DON'T USE ONLINE ACTIVATION 
 OR AT LEAST MAKE IT FOR REGULAR XBOX. If I ever even get this game then I'll be glad to give it 
 a higher rating if it doesn't suck. This thing won't let me through because I don't have the required 
 amount of characters so I will just right NO STEAM EVER EVER EVER EVER and I will also say bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bLA BLA 
 BLA BLA BLA BLA BLA BLA BLA BLA  
  bla  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vain_Apocalypse
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 4:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is built around the idea of tight cooperation and communication within a team. What the 
 developers have done here is create a game more reliant on team work than any other I have ever 
 seen. This is done by making individual players essentially powerless, and so easily overcome, 
 regardless of that individual's skill level; that isn't something that you see in many games, least 
 of all first person shooters. 
  
  The multiplayer in first person shooters is usually dominated by players with the quickest reflexes, 
 the most precise mouse, and the most hours of experience. These things mean almost nothing here 
 though; instead, emphasis is placed on cooperative planning, cohesion, and most of all common sense. 
 This fits perfectly with the theme of a "zombie apocalypse," where the ratio between combatants 
 is something like 4:2,579.
  
  The game also comes with plenty of light, chuckle worthy humor, and decidedly likable characters, 
 with all the voice acting you could want. Speaking of voice acting, the sound overall is fairly 
 nice, with dynamic music that cues important events (such as the spawning of a "tank," or the imminent 
 death of your team) .
  
  The game-play's only real fault is the lack of foresight on the part of the developers, which has 
 allowed the survivors the exploitative tactic of huddling into closet corners and melee spamming 
 whenever a horde of zombies is incoming. This was diminished with the most recent patch, which 
 prevents the survivors from melee spamming. Survivors are still, however, able to stand literally 
 inside of each other, thereby taking advantage of corners for this purpose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snover2009
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2009 7:02 am PT
Review:  Graphics:
  
  Decent, but nothing groundbreaking. Maybe due to the fact that the game will run more smoothly 
 with less technical stuff.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Shoot zombies, save a friend from a zombie, shoot more zombies, and repeat. This sound less fun 
 than it actually is. It is an adrenaline rush due to the large number of zombies that can be on 
 your screen at once, not to mention the special classes of zombies.
  
  - Hunter
  - Smoker
  - Boomer
  - Tank
  - Witch
  
  With the exception of the Witch, these classes 
 of zombies can be played as in the versus mode of the game. Only drawback, you have to wait 25 
 seconds to respawn as a class that is randomly given to you.
  
  Price:
  
  Was at the Walmart for 30 bucks, sounds pretty good if you ask me.
  
  Verdict:
  
  If you 
 have a good online connection, this is a must buy, but if you want to play a deep single player 
 game, well, you can, but it is much more fun with 3 other people. You can only trust the computer 
 AI so much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperQ-2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Ideas are unrealized for spans of time, leaving some people in desolation and utter bewilderment 
 of the unfounded realms of something so beautiful and unique. Zombie films have been around forever, 
 along with the concept of horror and the concept of survival in video games that have long seen 
 their effects through various games. Some worthy of recognition, others ill-founded and sadly not 
 of the same caliber. Left 4 Dead is finally that game that dares to realize the unfound potential 
 of an idea. While the idea has been in movies for so long, the premise of Left 4 Dead is something 
 truly unique and extraordinary. Michael Booth had gained influence from the best horror films to 
 come out fairly recently: 28 Days Later, Dawn of the Dead, etc. -and this very influence created 
 an insuperable definition of something new for the words "horror" and "survival" together. Finally, 
 these two words become realized as one entity in the harmonious and blood splattering realms of 
 Left 4 Dead and will never be forgotten again.
  
  The interface for Left 4 Dead is simply exquisite. Right on start, the players are greeted with 
 the launch of a cinematic depicting four unlikely heroes trudging along a dark alleyway in a world 
 where the former living become the living dead and nowhere is safe. Louis the witty joker of the 
 group, Bill the old veteran, Zoey the underestimated female and bad boy Francis need to stick together 
 and learn what makes a team to survive the zombie apocalypse that has befallen the world by a mysterious 
 infection. While the storyline is something simple, the effect that it has is simple blithe  providing 
 energy unfounded in games that measure online co-op as a supplement rather than a fundamental part 
 of gameplay. The cohesiveness of the actual gameplay is affected by the storyline directly. Left 
 4 Dead takes a story plot that has been around forever in the best zombie horror films and realizes 
 it. The only problem is that there are no real threads in every different story, nothing to aid 
 in the visualization of the different campaigns, only text that describe a scenario which is contumacious 
 given the embroidery presented with the unforgettable opening sequence. Even though the missing 
 effect of cinematic may seem like a small issue, it does slightly end up disappointing. It really 
 makes us think that Valve should have not spent $10 million dollars on advertising this game but 
 on the production of these assets.
  
  While storyline is simple and elegant, the loss of cinematic is a slight contusion when it comes 
 to the level of gameplay. Single player comes with various weapon check points as the game begins. 
 Playing as one of the four survivors, players make their way across an extensive map that highlights 
 various different terrains to deliver horrifying scares with suspense and thrill. If a team mate 
 goes down, the action button brings him back up with a small level boost as points are assigned 
 to the person who assists. Various medkit boxes are around the map if anyone seems fit to explore 
 every inch and weapons such as pipe bombs and molotovs lie around the map. This is kind of an odd 
 choice to have pipe bombs (that are actually very expensive with their audible beeping and what 
 not) and moltovs just lay across various maps. If 28 Days Later was the inspiration for Left 4 
 Dead, then Turtle Rock Studios should have realized that notwithstanding these elements provide 
 gameplay opportunity, they are not exactly realistic to expectations. You would not see pipe bombs 
 lain every 2 blocks from Manchester, UK.
  
  Single player is further enhanced by something epicurean called the AI Director. The Director creates 
 various dynamic situations based on health, ammo count, item counts of all kind, and finally player 
 count. So many enjoyable sessions come out of the AI Director, which is simply worth mention. The 
 Director helps to create so much action, that for us who scrutinize the tinniest details to the 
 fullest, we found ourselves ignoring the very linear gameplay action of load up-escape-escape-helicopter 
 out.
  
  Co-op in Left 4 Dead is vital not only to the single player but also to the multiplayer. Imagine 
 the single-player but exactly online. So, with that complicated definition aside, let's move on 
 to the real mode: Versus. Simple story short: one team plays as the "Survivors" another team as 
 "Infected." The main objective is to see how long the other team can last as the Survivors without 
 miserably failing. At the end of each round, there are various multipliers that determine a score. 
 After every round, the amazing interface that goes over each team's overviews is a wonderful addition. 
 It's great seeing your name on top every time and knowing you were the best of the worst in Infected 
 as the Hunter.
  
  The Xbox 360 version comes with a changed interface that aims to streamline everything for console 
 players not accustomed to the typical keyboard and mouse solution. While the interface looks sleek, 
 at times it's difficult to control with the analogue. The Xbox 360 version is also, for obvious 
 reasons, downgraded in graphics but gameplay is what eventually makes Left 4 Dead a great buy for 
 Xbox 360 players, minus the potential for absolutely no mods and little to no downloadable content/updates.
 
  
  Left 4 Dead has one notable feature missing: allies turning into zombies. Every zombie film has 
 this element of dramatic irony, and literally it would have been obvious to include something like 
 this for some dramatic effect in the game itself. Actual co-op gameplay, Versus mode, or a single 
 mode altogether would have sufficed at the very least. We can just smell a mod coming out for this 
 one way or another.
  
  Left 4 Dead does a lot of things right and manages to break the barriers of imperturbable thought. 
 With intense online cooperative action, an imaginative experience that uses elements of suspense 
 and dynamic progress, Left 4 Dead creates a realized vision with the words "horror," "survival," 
 and "suspense." Even though there are various factors that might not play out the way we want them 
 to, it all works out in the end. Blood splattering, mind gripping, player jumping, panic reeking, 
 havoc entailing, grip clenching, erection inducing, luridly entertaining, apocalypse dooming, horrifically 
 obviating, brain splattering, arm blowing, leg removing, outlandish thrilling, precipitant blood-dripping, 
 eye gouging, zombie clawing, tirelessly running, ammo wasting, pleasant injury giving Left 4 Dead 
 is an experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SephirothTDL
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 6, 2009 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Grab 3 other friends and jump right into the action. Left 4 Dead is a great addition to the FPS 
 genre, taking you away from the traditional modern combat shooters everyone loves and hates. 
 
  
  What makes L4D so unique is although it does only have 4 campaign stories, which are broken down 
 into chapters and can be beaten in a short period of time, the game offers whats called an AI Director 
 that basically creates a new intense and unique experience every time you replay the levels. 
 
  
  The main focus of Left 4 Dead is in multiplayer. With 2 modes to choose from; story mode, and 4 
 vs 4 (zombies vs survivors) its truly addictive and you can spend hours running around the familiar 
 streets.
  
  This game will probably be more fun on the PC than Xbox but then again you wont have to worry about 
 the system specs if you choose Xbox. 
  
  I you are looking for a different kind of FPS, this is a game to check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: verysneaky
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2009 5:43 am PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is just awesome in all but one regard. There is absolutely no story other than "Get 
 to da choppa!" for No Mercy, as an example. This is fine if you don't mind and instead of an engrossing 
 story, you get your friends screaming in your ear because a Hunter has pounced them. As long as 
 you have a group of friends willing to play with you, replaying the same levels does not get old. 
 
  
  Sure, there are limited weapons, enemies and maps. To solve this, each match will be different 
 because the AI director will place enemies differently and in versus mode, players on the Infected 
 team will react differently to each situation. Also, the two campaigns not supported in versus 
 will be added this month (April 2009) with the SDK, allowing for any person to make their own maps. 
 
  
  Despite its shortcomings, Left 4 Dead is a blast to play with friends online, even more so with 
 microphones. This game won't disappoint when played on its strengths. Unfortunately, it doesn't 
 have the same atmosphere when played in single player mode.
  
  Overall, L4D is a great buy which can see you coming back for more even after all the achievements 
 are unlocked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vladex00
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2009 9:51 am PT
Review:  November 17, 2008 - Despite the love of Hollywood to turn games into movies, there doesn't seem 
 to be a need for a movie based on Left 4 Dead, as it's already been made several times over. Left 
 4 Dead is a game that venerates zombie movies throughout the ages, from George A. Romero's Dawn 
 of the Dead to Danny Boyle's 28 Days Later. In the game, you and up to three other survivors must 
 battle a zombie apocalypse with a simple goal; you aren't trying to eradicate the undead horde, 
 you're just trying to survive. 
  
  However, Left 4 Dead is also a completely different kind of game, and it feels as much of an experiment 
 as it does an amazing gameplay experience. Valve has moved against convention and delivered a game 
 that is built almost entirely around cooperative multiplayer action. Sure, there is a single-player 
 mode that lets you play through the game with bots, but that feels like practice. Bots lack the 
 dynamic play, the interaction and the interplay, and the social aspect of co-op play. This is a 
 game that comes to life when you play with at least one other human player, and it's even better 
 if there are four humans in each game. 
  Let's start with the basics. Left 4 Dead is about the seemingly hot new fad in storytelling: the 
 dreaded zombie apocalypse has finally come to pass, turning the vast majority of the population 
 into a mindless, ravenous undead hordes. A handful of humans remain immune to the zombie virus, 
 and you play as a small group of them. There's Zoey, a young woman; Bill, the grizzled veteran; 
 Louis, the middle-class office worker; and Francis, the biker. Armed with real and makeshift weapons, 
 these survivors must battle their way to salvation. It's a simple plot that anyone can recognize, 
 and Valve pulls it off with its trademark incredible attention to detail. 
  
  In each of the game's four scenarios, you must battle your way to a series of safe houses that 
 lead to a rescue point. You can have up to four players in a game, controlling each of the characters, 
 but if you're short of humans, the AI can fill in and control the bots. The AI is generally solid; 
 it's good about killing zombies, not hitting you with friendly fire, and even patching you up with 
 med kits if you're down. The downside is that the bots are passive; you always have to be in the 
 lead, which is problematic when you're hurting. If you're playing with other humans you can tell 
 them that you're hurting and can switch the formation around. That doesn't happen with bots. Still, 
 you can play the game with the bots on almost all the difficult levels save for expert. Frankly, 
 expert is so brutal that you'll need four human players to prevail, and even then it's not a sure 
 bet you'll make it through. 
  
  Each scenario is presented like a movie, which is a nice touch. At the beginning there's a movie 
 poster showing the cast. If you survive, the "credits" display the statistics for the game, like 
 who killed the most zombies, who inflicted the most headshots, who delivered the most friendly 
 fire, and the like. The final credit shows how many zombies were killed in the making of the film, 
 and a nice touch I really like is that if only some of the survivors make it to safety, the film 
 is dedicated to the memory of those who didn't. Even the scenario titles are awesome in a cheesy 
 sort of way. There's No Mercy where you battle through a hospital, Dead Air which requires you 
 to fight to an airport, Death Toll has you make your way to a dock, and Blood Harvest where you 
 take shelter in a farmhouse. 
  The zombie horde that you battle is based on the "fast" zombies seen in movies like 28 Weeks Later. 
 These zombies don't shamble. Instead, they sprint at you with inhuman speed, scale fences, and 
 bust down doors to get at you. Horde zombies aren't smart, but they are dangerous in large numbers. 
 The real danger comes in the form of some special zombies. There's the hunter, which can leap across 
 large distances to pin a survivor to the ground. Then there's the smoker, which has a frog-like 
 tongue that can grab a survivor by the throat. The boomer is a corpulent zombie that vomits or 
 explodes to spray survivors. Getting hit by the substance will not only temporarily blind survivors, 
 but it drives the zombie horde into a feeding frenzy. The tank is just that; he's a brick of a 
 zombie that can take an enormous amount of damage and dish out a fair amount. And finally, there's 
 the witch; she's an enormously powerful zombie that can take down a survivor with a single swipe. 
 
  
  The game is paced almost perfectly so that you're always pushed to the edge. You'll run low on 
 health. You'll run low on ammo or you'll run out entirely, requiring you to rely on pistols, which 
 have unlimited ammo but aren't as effective as shotguns, assault rifles, and submachine guns. There 
 are pipe bombs and Molotov bombs that you can scavenge, and you can turn propane tanks and gas 
 canisters into weapons. The latter are particularly useful in the many "crescendo" elements in 
 the game. These are points where you must initiate an action in order to open the way forward like 
 having a van drive through a steel fence to open the route. The kicker is that the moment you initiate 
 the action the zombie horde are going to come down on you like a tidal wave. The good news is that 
 you have time to prepare and place down fuel canisters and discuss the battle plan. If a player 
 falls victim to the zombie menace, a respawn mechanism reintroduces them back in the action as 
 another survivor who has been found (though don't ask why the new survivor is exactly the same 
 as the old survivor) . 
  Now, if there's a ding against Left 4 Dead, it's that the fact that there are only four scenarios, 
 which is a small number to wrap your head around, and you can play through a scenario in 20 or 
 30 minutes on the normal difficulty setting. On higher difficulty settings, it'll take longer since 
 you'll die a lot, requiring restarts at the beginning or the most recent safe house that you've 
 reached. Granted, the four scenarios are highly replayable; you could play them over and over again 
 and events unfold differently. There are two reasons for that. The first is the built-in "director" 
 system that manages the action. If you're doing well, it will throw more zombies, like a sadistic 
 dungeon master in a game of Dungeons & Dragons. If you're doing badly, it might decide to ease 
 up on you a bit by providing health kits and ammunition. The second reason is simple human nature. 
 It's a blast to play with others, but it can also be a hilarious experience, as well as a slightly 
 frustrating one at times. 
  
  The value proposition also takes a slight ding when you discover that the Versus mode that lets 
 you play as the zombies against other humans is only available in two of the campaigns (No Mercy 
 and Blood Harvest) . Please note that versus mode is an absolute hoot, especially in a LAN setting, 
 but I had a lot of fun playing online as well. In Versus, one team controls the human players (you 
 need at least a single player on the human side; the rest of the characters can be driven by bots) 
 while up to four others play as the special zombies. If you're on the side of the undead, the game 
 picks your special zombie class for you; all classes are available save for the witch. 
  Versus mode plays out with each team alternating between human and zombie. Each team takes a turn 
 trying to see how far it can get in each level; the humans win if all the survivors make it to 
 the safe house or survive long enough for extraction. The zombies must prevent that from happening. 
 Points are awarded for each stage, and the team with the most points at the end of the campaign 
 wins. It creates a  mentality that drives the competition. 
 
  
  Playing as the zombies requires a lot more coordination since the special zombies need to work 
 together to be effective. If the highly vulnerable boomer can get close enough to vomit on the 
 survivors this not only blinds them but it unleashes the zombie horde. In the chaos, the other 
 special zombies can divide and conquer the survivors. But if the zombies attack the survivors in 
 a piecemeal fashion, the survivors will likely make it through. 
  
  The Source Engine that powers the game may not be as cutting edge as other graphics engines anymore, 
 but it does a great job at rendering a variety of environments that are packed with detail and 
 clutter. And the lighting system is incredible; this game has some of the best flashlight mechanics 
 since Doom III. You'll be in a pitch black dark room and the only illumination comes from the small 
 cone of light from your flashlight. The light is attached to the muzzle of the gun so when you 
 reload the cone of light shifts to the ceiling. Another nice lighting effect the strobe light effect 
 that occurs from the muzzle flash when you're firing in the dark; all you see are the faces of 
 the zombie horde in flashes. Then there's the excellent facial animation that lets conveys so much 
 emotion on each survivor's face, as well as the typical Valve sense of humor in some of the graffiti 
 in the safe houses. 
  
  The game runs well on both the Xbox 360 and the PCs that I've played on. The Source Engine has 
 been around for four years now, so it's been optimized and tweaked quite a bit. The PC version 
 looks better at higher resolutions, and the load times are definitely quicker. That's not to take 
 away from the Xbox 360 game, which also looks good, though the loading times do leave something 
 to be desired, as every time you hit a safe room requires you to sit around for a bit for the next 
 level to load. 
  The audio is also strong; there's an incredible amount of voice acting in the game as each character 
 has a large number of lines to draw upon. It's not just the simple things, like crying out warnings, 
 but it's the extra things, like how they mourn a fallen comrade. The special zombies all have their 
 telltale sounds that warn you of their presence, and the music shifts dynamically to accompany 
 the lulls and the heights of the action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squall_gunbl
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Read the main review for the gist of things. Here are a few things that might answer curiosity.
 
  
  The 4 campaigns are completely unrelated. Each campaign is more like a "what if they had to escape 
 from this particular place"
  
  The harder difficulties make the bots completely obsolete.
  
  The PC version will crash a lot. 
 Not often or anything, but won't be a surprise after a while. This is through the opinion of me 
 and all my friends who experience this on our respective PCs. After many patches, the problem is 
 hardly solved.
  
  VS is the only thing left to play after you've had your fill playing with your friends or other 
 like minded peers on expert (for achievements or for craps and giggles) . VS is competitively Fun 
 and mostly always different. and the patches have gone a long way to making things more even and 
 fixing exploits (mainly making it harder to be survivors)
  
  Just remember to have or make friends who play this game with you. playing with random people all 
 the time will make this game go stale sooner then later.
  
  PS. A huge update is coming in April that will open up more VS maps, and include an editor for 
 some hopefully fun mods and custom maps.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -CANUCK-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 9:26 am PT
Review:  What's in a name? Well many dollars out of the marketing budget for one. I've been refusing to 
 give this game a fair shake for the better part of five months by in large for having such a bad 
 name. "Left for Dead" struck me as the title of what would be an uninspired bargain bin shooter, 
 and then to see it referred to as "Left 4 Dead" added an extra layer of tackiness. So I deemed 
 Left 4 Dead the worst-titled game of '08, worse than "de Blob" and chalked up my refusal to buy 
 it for this long on bad marketing. Because, really, what should the box art of a dismembered hand 
 doing the Four Horsemen salute do to inspire curiosity? 
  
  The other reason that I've neglected Left 4 Dead is the presumption that it's a co-op shooter, 
 which does nothing to phase me since every shooter now is a co-op shooter for better or worse. 
 Call me an anti-social gamer if you like and perhaps my stance on co-operative games will change 
 when the team-based Street Fighter is released to prove me wrong, but your gameplay options in 
 a level that must take in consideration more than one person hopping around gleefully in it are 
 limited. Storyline becomes an inconvenience and you can't design individual set pieces, so co-op-centric 
 games like Call of Duty: World at War or Saint's Row 2 devolve into "you and friends killing wave 
 after wave of enemies" followed by "you and your friends killing a few more waves of enemies."
 
  
  And really, that is exactly what Left 4 Dead is; you and three others and you're killing about 
 a thousand zombies in a level. Each mission is presented as a fun little knockoff of an old-fashioned 
 zombie movie, with your Steam accounts as the actors who play one of the four horror movie archetypes; 
 the stubborn tough guy biker, the old military vet with the clouded past, the token black guy and 
 the hot college girl (who's wearing more clothes than college girls normally wear in these movies) . 
 There's no actual story though, aside from "get to the rescue chopper, a lot of things die along 
 the way" and the dialogue is limited to characters yelling "ammo here!" in the presence of supplies 
 or the voice-chat of the light-voiced teenage kid playing as the college girl. 
  
  The gameplay comprises of your simple shooter mechanics; you use the standard gun archetypes of 
 shotgun, machine gun, etc, with the one deviation being the pipe bomb that seems to have some kind 
 of pheromone that sexually attracts zombies and has them all humping its location before the device 
 blows its payload. However, Left 4 Dead rises above other shooters in its integration of its 4ness. 
 You need your three buddies to survive, lest you be overwhelmed from all corners. Certain special 
 enemies can knock you down, and you'll need a party mate to knock that zombie who pounced on top 
 of you or grabbed you with itstongue, and then risk a moment of vulnerability to pick you up.
 
  
  If you have teammates that know what they're doing, are willing to co-ordinate and SHARE their 
 first aid kits (HINT! HINT!) , then there's an uncanny sense of satisfaction in navigating a level, 
 all the while competing for the most kills or even the most teammate rescues. Likewise, careless 
 partners who insist on running ahead alone or have a habit of falling straight into a zombie horde 
 can kill the experience. So really, a level of Left 4 Dead is entirely dependant on whom you're 
 playing with. 
  
  A small but appreciated tangent; if someone leaves a game, the AI will take that movie star's role 
 until a new player joins. And if, say, reality comes in and your woman wants loving, then you can 
 use the "Take a Break" option and let the computer take over while you play real life Smoker. 
 
  
  The game's biggest weakness is that there are only four levels. While each of them, on the normal 
 difficulty, are about an hour long, you're still relegated to exploring the same areas and shooting 
 the same four or five types of zombies and using the same propane tanks (what is a propane tank 
 doing inside a hospital?) to set up the same traps. Valve has personified computer algorithms into 
 an unseen entity called the "director", which is their marketing phrase of saying "the game distributes 
 ammo, health and zombies based on your performance." I'll give the game its due and say that this 
 ensures that you can't truly memorize a level or where the enemies come from, and also demand a 
 degree of exploration to find power-ups, but even then the player can still guess where and when 
 the zombies will bum rush youas in they'll always bum rush you. 
  
  And for a bit of variety, there's Versus mode, which as of this moment is only functional for two 
 of the four maps. Two teams of four alternate between playing as the human offense and the zombie 
 defense, with points scored based on how far the human team travels before reaching the safe zone 
 touchdown. It's a novel little twist, but true success amongst zombies can only be achieved through 
 wise planning and teamwork, which surprises me that playing as brain-eaters can require such cerebral 
 play. And while it's extremely satisfying to wither down an enemy to red-level health and untimely 
 death (and hear all of your teammates swear on their microphones in frustration when one of the 
 humans uses a health pack) , zombie play is ultimately a sort of grind, where you and your allies 
 die a lot and wait for the respawn time to elapse, so I guess Versus mode is more of an acquired 
 taste. 
  
  This being the PC version of Left 4 Dead, the amount of content will (in theory) increase tenfold 
 once Valve releases a level-editor for the masses, but as of this moment, you basically have to 
 ask yourself "how much do I like shooting things with other people?" The focus on team-based shooting 
 makes Left 4 Dead a much better co-operative experience than anything on the market. However, I 
 can't help but feel that the lack of content makes the game feel overpriced, and I can't say with 
 a straight face that I got my $50 worth. Fans of the forthcoming zombie apocalypse, on the other 
 hand, will get some kind of strange hands on training the field of surviving the onslaught, so 
 I guess Left 4 Dead is the champion of the zombie-subculture. 
  
  3  stars
  
  Does anyone else find it strange that the same four characters appear in the same four movies? 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_persona
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2009 11:55 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is by far the funniest First Person Shooter game that I ever played besides Team Fortress 
 2. The game is simple, you and your buddies fight bunch zombies, picking up new weapons, help each 
 other out on the way and try to make it to the saferoom and have yourself an ultimate escape. Teamwork 
 is very essential in this game. It's great if you can team up with your friends, because there 
 are so many strategy in this game, it works better with human players than computer. However, playing 
 on expert mode can be somewhat difficult at first, but you will get used to it eventually. The 
 most negative thing about L4D is the team killers. There are many many people who will join the 
 expert game just to kill other players for fun. It's not that great and I have seen it happened 
 many times. I hope Steam can do something about the team killing situation in the expert mode. 
 ANYHOW ! this is still a great game with great fun ! I highly recommended : )
  but of course, don't play this game if you not in the right age ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhofever
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2009 9:42 am PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is an awesome game in every aspect. Playing with your friends in Co-op mode or Versus 
 is just so fun and you'll have your own little moments where something funny happened.
  
  The game may be short for Single Player but this game is built purely for Multi player fun. What 
 is required is team work in order to win the game and it's pretty hard sometimes to succeed, which 
 makes the game very challenging and really fun.
  
  There is always replayability to the multi player. Different things can happen if you want them 
 to happen :) .
  
  If you don't have this game, you shouldm't call yourself an FPS gamer. It is truly a must have 
 for pc gamers and is one of the best zombie games I have ever played.
  
  Another valve game that has succeeded, it can not be missed. If you don't have a copy for yourself, 
 get out there and buy it! ( Or buy it on steam ! )
  
  Make sure you have a stable internet connection because the fun starts online. A microphone is 
 a must in Left 4 Dead in order to communicate with your team mates, unless your comfortable with 
 typing very fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xequtra
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 9:01 pm PT
Review:  ---Visuals ---
  The whole area is so darken, draping your entire view and perspective to be something to be feared... 
 but it does scare you into being careful. Though, it would help to actually have a level that isn't 
 actually dark and in daylight since we aren't playing with zombies par say. There are some minor 
 glitching issues with being able to see what's on the other side of the door or wall, but other 
 than that, it is nice and dull, just enough to scare you with what's coming around the corner
 
  
  
  ----Audio ----
  The whole warning system draped along with the horrifically scary music does make you change the 
 pace and I don't recall not ever following the pace of the music depending on an event. But still, 
 the witch is the biggest one which really gets you the most during the game. Though, it doesn't 
 help if the witch was in fact upstairs and you actually hear the witch warning... What on earth?!?
 
  Anyways, if the music can't get me hooked, it does get a lower mark... I just can't seem to remember 
 anything which catches me off...
  Bah... Witch!
  
  
  ---Gameplay ---
  This is purely a multiplayer game with the bots on both sides being a little annoying on both sides... 
 There isn't a problem with pathfinding for the infected, with the bots on the survivor's side not 
 taking the lead, following your voice commands, going a lined formation, etc. If the bots does 
 in fact take the lead in some instances, you know that you wouldn't be walking into a zombie trap 
 and could actually provide some decent cover fire and clear any blocked paths with might occur... 
 damn Breadcrumb and pigeon bots... Formations, well... some might not see it as something major 
 but when you are in the open, it helps to bunch right up to stop your back from being attacked 
 or the wave shooting formation creating dual firepower towards one direction. If you can avoid 
 single player, avoid it at all costs!
  Multiplayer, you've got the achievable, verses mode but the internet option is so painful, I'm 
 not too sure if it is even properly thought of... If it is broken, marks off for the trouble which 
 it has caused.
  There have been some situations as to how and why things are where they are, but then again, who 
 cares, it is just a game and it isn't trying to make you pee your pants when you are dying every 
 4 minutes.
  
  
  ---Longevity ---
  Since the Internet option wasn't properly thought of, it did become a major problem in find a good 
 playing server, but hopefully, it will be fixed up very soon. Given that there's only just 4 maps 
 with 5 check points each, it might last a total of 10 hours in total if you have a couple of pro 
 FPS players covering and assisting, if not less. Concept is brilliant and some of the achievements 
 just make no complete sense sometimes... More maps = more fun. I can't honestly see myself going 
 at it for maybe more than 2 weeks because there might be griefers around.
  
  
  Woo!
  
  A game which actually did live up to its hype for over a freakin year!
  Achievables!
  Good 
 multiplayer system
  Good Graphics
  Scary Music
  Proof that bathrooms are actually quite safe (Best Choke point ever! XD)
  Witch... scarey... 
 
  
  
  Boo!
  
  Stupid Bots FFS...
  Some stupid and crazy achievable
  How can you make Machinema off that?!? I wanted to Rooster Teeth do something with that!
  Where 
 and how did the guns even get there?
  If guns would be lying at the start, wouldn't there be just a limited amount available?
  I remember 
 taking 10 freaking bottles of Painkillers in just one section, how come my character didn't OD 
 and die?!?
  We need Veto to get rid of knobs in the game
  Internet game joining system is horrible, needs a better one. I can certainly think of an idea...
 
  Too many repetitious character models... maybe add a bit of variance?
  Add a new sense of madness by making a map not stuck in the dark?!?
  Nothing too weird and offputing 
 just to cheer spirits up a bit
  How come the DVD doesn't come with a few extra goodies?
  Requires a better FF griefer's punishment system?...
  Maybe more weapons?
  Minigun locations 
 are located at some really bad spots FFS!
  Witch.... Really.... Really.... scary.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bozzy-is-3
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2009 6:50 pm PT
Review:  The best game i have personally every played you dont have to like it im not asking you to it would 
 be rediculous of me to. but this game is by far NOT too short its so replayable ive played hundreds 
 of shorter games including every cod game which takes atleast an hour less than this game ATLEAST. 
 it has an amazing multiplayer mixed with the amazing singleplayer after 40 hours this game still 
 leaves me begging for more missing it when i can play it etc.. its a title i can stop playing 30 
 to much u say? worth every penny! perfection cant put it down. very replayable as everything is 
 always different after 35 hours played with a friend on easy was shocked and suprised by things 
 happening ive never seen before even then on my 20th play through of first campaign (didnt count 
 thats a guess) the relying on other people idea is what makes it fun and makes playing with friends 
 all that much better. its a must have title. well done valve keep it up.
  
  Too short? STFU!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadfall07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 6:57 am PT
Review:  Zombies in games are getting common now. However there are a few good zombie games that execute 
 it perfectly. Left 4 dead is one of those games. The game takes place 2 weeks after a zombie outbreak 
 (How it started we may never know) . There are 4 "movies" each containing 5 levels in each one. 
 You will fight through subways, apartments, forests, Even on the roof of a overun hospital.
  Now here comes L4D's greatest feature, the game has a "AI director" which spawns health, ammo and 
 zombies based on the players strengths and weaknesses, making the game never play the same time. 
 The game also has great multiplayer. There are 2 modes, Campaign and VS. In campaign, you play 
 through a Movie with other players against the zombie horde. In VS mode, 4 players are the survivors 
 and the other 4 are the special infected.
  The bad things? Friendly fire CANNOT be disabled, Meaning people can grief but I have never seen 
 this so what can I say?
  
  The idea of zombies is getting worn out in this day and age but this revamped the idea of a zombie 
 outbreak. Get this game and play with friends. Its worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkness7089
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2009 9:52 am PT
Review:  Given the bad games Valve has unleashed (Especially Team Failure with its terrible class balancing) , 
 it was good to see a game of value make its way to the shelf from the company. While Left 4 Dead 
 has its ups and downs, it won't really waste your time.
  
  I don't know of any zombie games that does the universe as well as this game. Any such game only 
 has you shooting at a few at a time, and usually alone at that. I favor team games, and you'll 
 find that in this game, running solo is pure suicide. Despite how well you may do for the first 
 minute or so, you can't be revived by yourself and will be helpless as soon as the first special 
 zombie jumps on you. Here, zombies come at you in large packs. What I really like is their awkward 
 and rather unpredictable behavior. Many zombies stand around cluelessly and don't mind being shoot, 
 while some react to your presence or your shooting. Sooner or later you annoy them enough to send 
 a crowd to remove you. Also, you'll frequently be attacked by crowds for no reason even if you 
 stand around, simply because you are a tasty meatbag in their city.
  
  The unpredictable behavior of the AI in this game got much work from design. You are often attacked 
 at different times in different areas, even if you play the same level again and again. You'll 
 also find that you won't find your precious items in the same spot again and again. You can memorize 
 where to go, but the game does a good job at replayability by changing these things around.
  
  Team Work is the name of the game here, where special zombies render a player helpless, requiring 
 the help of a team mate to recover. For instance, one special zombie will pin you on the ground, 
 where you'll be helpless until some one else shoots it off. There are more, but I don't see the 
 need to detail them all. If you ignore your allies, you probably won't survive. Fortunately bot 
 allies do a good job of assisting each other and you, not needing much of your help, but you'll 
 still want to return the favor just to help yourself. You may also need to if you run around on 
 the Advanced difficulty like I do. (I tried Expert, that didn't fare well) You can pass items to 
 allies or heal them too, but these items aren't endless. Usually you'll go through most of a level 
 with a single healthkit per person. Ammo too isn't to be wasted, although pistol bullets are unlimited, 
 pistol (s) aren't that effective against hordes of enemies as opposed to the other weapons.
  
  The game doesn't get much of an arsenal, this is probably due to a successful attempt to only 
 give you weapons you'd actually come across in a public environment. You can't exactly get a rocket 
 launcher or flame thrower at wal mart, so even if they were in the game, they'd be quite out of 
 place. Still, a military base level or such could logically provide the weapons, so you won't be 
 amused by your limited selection for very long. If you came across such a base or even a military 
 truck with such a weapon inside, it wouldn't feel out of place as they brought the things in to 
 attempt to deal with the problem. Basically there are 2 machine guns, a shotgun, and a sniper rifle 
 that you probably won't ever use. I was able to put it to use if I moved slowly, but it's faster 
 just to rambo the game and shoot as you go.
  
  The sound quality of this game is probably its best feature, able to strike fear in anyone that 
 trembles in things like this. The Undead sound like you'd expect them to sound, and you can hear 
 the emotion from your characters as they speak too. A weak character will sound like he's dying 
 just like in the movies. They also say plenty of other things, be it randomly or throughout a level. 
 There's a massive, massive number of recorded audio for the game, I don't remember the count, but 
 it was in the thousands, and this is just for your 4 humans, not the zombies.
  
  Like anyone else, I can't stand performance issues, but that shouldn't be a concern here. I've 
 played it on 360 and PC myself and it runs smooth the entire time, even if you ignite a group of 
 zombies and watch them burn.
  
  Although the same single player again and again is all the game offers, it allows you to do it 
 with up to 4 players, and you can even get zombie players against the humans. Other versions allow 
 split screen, but both allow LAN or online play. You can play most of the special zombies, pouncing 
 around as a Hunter or grabbing people from far away as a Smoker. If you are a zombie, other zombies 
 are your friends, so it is interesting. The real problem is the lack of enemies, as the 4 humans 
 are all there is. It could have used more human AI, such as soldiers or armed but weak civilians 
 for the zombies to pick on. You might not enjoy hunting the same 4 humans again and again.
  
  It's easy to recommend this game for full price for anyone that wants to learn about zombie 
 survival.
  
  Single player:
  (Experience) A (Good)
  Presentation:
  (Video/Audio) A (Good)
  Performance: Star (Perfect)
  Multiplayer: B (Acceptable) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agturboninja
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2009 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is a fun zombie first person shooter to play with friends. Having to shoot at hordes 
 of sprinting zombies is very exhilarating. This game stresses teamwork because, one special infected 
 zombie such as the hunter or smoker can kill the survivor, unless another survivor helps out. The 
 ability to reload while using melee is nice. The AI Director making items be placed in random locations 
 adds to the excitement of the game.
  
  The versus mode is extremely fun being a zombie, and trying to pin down the survivors. While not 
 having as much health, you have to work as a team to defeat the survivors. The only problem of 
 being a zombie is you have to wait 20 seconds to respawn. 
  
  The only flaws with this game is lack of weapons. There is only 7 guns, and then grenades and gas 
 cans. Also their is only 4 campaigns and all of them are very short. Overall Left 4 Dead is an 
 amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: floristandbicyc
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2009 1:16 am PT
Review:  All my life I've been waiting to be vomited on by morbidly obese, rotting half-wits; Valve's Left 
 4 Dead has fulfilled this fantasy and oh so much more. Set in the extremely-not-so-distant future, 
 this multiplayer oriented first person shooter pits you and three friends against floods of low 
 IQ salesmen, stock brokers, waiters, lawyers, and men and women of every race and sexual orientation 
 in the fun shape of zombies.
  
  The mechanics in Left 4 Dead are pretty simple. You and your team-mates make your way from point 
 A to B, exploding heads and limbs along the way using a selection of small arms, ranging from wild 
 SMG's to sniper rifles. The lack of variety here is disappointing, but each weapon serves it's 
 own role and caters to a different play style, and each handle great in various circumstances. 
 Bolstering your arsenal are pipebombs and Molotovs; the former draws the swarms of undead to it's 
 beeping noise before discharging and spraying blood and limbs everywhere, the latter is self explanatory. 
 Zombies are in no shortage, and will most definitely seek out your internal organs; fear not, when 
 your health hits zero you merely fall to the ground, still able to utilize your pistols until a 
 team-mate returns to revive you. 
  
  Before you hop into one of the four campaigns that make up the meat (the braaains) of the game, 
 you can choose to be one of the four characters representing your basic range of social archetypes. 
 Who you choose makes no different in the game, save for the various one-liners (and they are all 
 killer) which will be issuing forth from your chosen avatar as you fight undead evil. Soon you'll 
 find yourself fighting for your lives through the five levels that compose said campaign, culminating 
 in a rescue mission that is guaranteed to be intense, sometimes frustrating, and bloody. You of 
 course have the option of fighting the good fight solo, with the aid of three AI controlled bots 
 to slug through the rotting masses, but the real fun is online, where friendly fire reigns and 
 the panicky pray-and-spray of your buddies will add an extra dose of adrenaline. The AI bots also 
 seem to lack any baseball or football fundamentals, as they never throw their Molotovs or pipebombs. 
 
  
  This  ethos may seem a little repetitious 
 at first glance, but Left 4 Dead keeps players on their toes using two unique additions to zombie 
 gaming fare. The first is the AI director, which looms high above the polygons, and orchestrates 
 when and where zombie hordes will swarm you as well the placement of arms and ammo, explosives 
 and health pickups, all depending on your situation. This ensures that every play through (each 
 campaign takes less than an hour on normal difficulty) is unique and full of surprises. The second 
 is a motley handful of special zombies, which spawn also with the aid of the AI director, and provides 
 all types of grief. The smoker grabs you from range using it's tongue, incapacitating you until 
 a team-mate liberates you; the tank is a colossal tower of death which requires ample fleeing and 
 the firepower of your whole team to take down; boomers vomit vision blurring bile all over you, 
 attracting the attention of the hungry horde. There are still hunters and witches, but I'll let 
 you discover those lovelies by yourself. 
  
  Despite all this, the shortage of maps and the briefness of the game proper may put off some gamers. 
 A versus mode allows players to assume the role of special zombies and pits them against survivor 
 players, though at this time only involves two of the four campaigns, and still adds a measure 
 of extra challenge for survivor players and the joy of griefing for the special zombie players.
 
  
  Visuals are decent considering the sheer amount of enemies present on the screen at any time; enemy 
 animations are fluid and lifelike (or deadlike?) , and blood effects are thick and satisfying. Textures 
 and explosion effects are nothing to write home about, but still look good enough. Players with 
 weaker systems will face some problems during climaxes, when zombies, explosions and fire fill 
 the screen, but the game otherwise runs smoothly at minimum spec. Anyone with beefier rigs (nvidia 
 200 series or quadcores for example) can max out the settings and still have buttery smooth framerates, 
 easy. Online servers are often lag-ridden, and frequently disconnect players, which can cause some 
 woe in the middle of a firefight.
  
  All in all, Left 4 Dead is a blast. Though you can easily cover all four campaigns in under six 
 hours, various difficulty settings and the AI director's whims will keep you happy, and when played 
 with friends this game is just golden. More weapons, more maps and less capricious servers would 
 be desirable, but I'm sure downloadable content and some server tweaking will cure all in the future. 
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutcrackr
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2009 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Great multiplayer games keep on giving even through repetition. Left 4 Dead is a game that keeps 
 giving me enjoyment when I'm doing the same sequences over and over. One of the keys to this is 
 how things play out differently each time. Of course nearly all good multiplayer games rely on 
 the fact that you aren't playing through the same situation, but L4D can ruin or highlight your 
 day in the span of about 10 seconds. A well coordinated attack from the infected results in all 
 survivors incapacitated and the round finishes. A good defensive move just before the safe room 
 will ensure your entire team survives. Left 4 Dead is a pretty basic concept, four survivors work 
 together against fast zombies to traverse a linear series of maps that form a campaign.
  
  The multiplayer versus mode is asymmetrical, and it's surprising how well it works at times. As 
 a survivor your job is simple, get to the safe room alive with your team. To do this you'll need 
 to stay close, and help each other. Those who run ahead or lag behind are often targets for the 
 enemy team, so you will always need to know where all of your team is. As infected you will mostly 
 be trying to gradually reduce the survivors' health. To do this well you'll need heavy coordination 
 and teamwork, using distractions, traps or the maps themselves to your advantage. Any single infected 
 boss isn't going to make much of an impact on their own against a good team except for the Tank. 
 In combination, the special infected bosses can deal some massive damage, if you can split the 
 survivors up you are halfway to victory.
  
  Survivors move through levels and pick up audio and visual signals as to the location of the special 
 infected. This helps them prepare or indentify where the danger is coming, sometimes it may be 
 a good move to track them down and kill them before they attack because there is at least a 15 
 second spawn time before they can come back. If a horde is attacking your team you'll be less likely 
 to notice special infected due to the sound and visual impairment. The melee type infected class 
 that pounces and slashes  Hunter  can blend in with the crowd and make a few slashes before he 
 dies. He can come from high above and maul a targeted survivor with bonus pounce damage although 
 landing big pounces on moving survivors takes skill. Boomers are fat; they vomit bile which sends 
 a new horde of basic zombies to the vomited on victims, usually effective in open spaces so hordes 
 can surround victims. The standard zombies aren't particularly dangerous in themselves but for 
 boss infected, it means time to attack. Those vomited on have greatly reduced vision which aids 
 the attack and sets the stage for some serious survivor separation.
  
  Along the levels two even more other special infected will appear a witch and a Tank. The witch 
 sits alone, crying. If somebody gets close to her she growls, flashlights are also easily spotted 
 by the witch. The witch gradually gets mad at survivors near her, once annoyed the witch will speed 
 run to the person who set her off, instantly incapacitating them on contact. Then she will rapidly 
 tear the guilty survivor to shreds and if the other survivors are occupied or far away it results 
 in death. She hasn't got much health however and can be avoided. Infected use her more as a tool, 
 because unprepared or surprised the witch results in one survivor down at least. The Tank unlike 
 the witch can be controlled by a random infected player. His job is to get busy bashing the survivors. 
 He has pretty high health and can knock the humans around quite well. In close quarters he's deadly 
 and can knock survivors off roof tops with the right punch and angle, which is hilarious. He can 
 lob rocks and throw cars at survivors and in some cases is better off doing just that from a distance. 
 On fire his fate is shorter, but in combination with other infected it's one of the best chances 
 for survivor annihilation you get, or at least do some considerable damage. The tank can usually 
 be defeated fairly easily by four healthy survivors so additional help from other infected is a 
 must.
  
  The setup for attacks and defences is quite basic, but it's the use and the timing that makes all 
 the difference. An example would be the Smoker, whose long tongue can reach and grab a survivor 
 shortly after he wriggles and is unable to move he keeps taking damage while being dragged back 
 to the smoker. In this state the smoker is stationary and very vulnerable, easy pickings for survivors. 
 If one survivor goes back to rescue the trapped victim an infected hunter can lie in wait and pounce 
 at the would be rescuer, resulting in two down and more damage until more backup arrives. The smoker 
 is also an opportunist class, a few key points along the levels he can pull the last survivor and 
 the other survivors will not be able to do anything. This might be because they went down a sewer 
 pipe or perhaps the pull is from high ledge. Being patient is more important than rushing in and 
 wasting these opportunities doing only small damage. Just as the survivors work together the infected 
 must coordinate moves and provide support to each other. In some cases, perfect timing can result 
 in victory very early on during the level. Infected players will spawn in ghost mode; visible to 
 only other infected players, when the view to survivors is obscured they can spawn. It's also worth 
 noting that certain points of the map are much better to attack than others and it can be crucial 
 to wait for fellow infected to spawn. If a survivor is incapacitated special infected will try 
 to keep him that way for as long as possible to maximize damage.
  
  Survivors who do some exploration might find useful medkits, molotovs, pills or pipebombs that 
 can greatly improve their chances along with more ammo and weapon upgrades. Of course the extra 
 exploring takes time and puts you at higher risk, instead survivors can rush through. Infected 
 on a spawn timer will spawn fewer times if the survivors get to the end faster so it's quite common 
 to see rushing teams. Rushers can be defeated though, grabbing a few of the survivors at the back 
 can slow down the pace and then swarms of normal infected can become a bit too much to handle. 
 The game features a few crescendo moments, at certain places in the campaign you will have the 
 chance to relax briefly before unleashing hell for a short time to progress onwards. As infected 
 it can be sometimes frustrating, particularly if one new player takes the roll as Boomer, who initiates 
 many ambushes by blinding and calling a horde. If he fails more than succeeds your chances of winning 
 are greatly reduced. This can explain the rather heavy lopsided nature of multiplayer games. More 
 often than not one team dominates fairly easily. People also tend to leave the losing side after 
 one or two safe rooms, which can exacerbate the problem. Naturally it's good to be on the winning 
 side but it's better to have a close well fought game.
  
  
  At the moment the main issue with Left 4 Dead is the fact that you can really only play two campaigns 
 in versus  the superior mode. So while I emphasized that this game is still great fun on replay 
 its lifetime would be greatly enhanced by adding more content. It's disappointing that the game 
 is still without the co-op campaigns Dead Air and Death Toll months after launch when they require 
 only a few weeks of testing and modifications to become versus ready. Valve has announced free 
 content for Left 4 Dead, including these two versus campaigns and an additional survival mode which 
 will come later this year.
  
  Another big issue is the way in which you get into existing or new games. Left 4 Dead features 
 a lobby style system and to be brutally honest it's not very effective or efficient. Sometimes 
 I'll be placed in servers from other countries- hello my communist friends, other times it will 
 make a lobby group join a server that pings badly for everybody. This is even after some improvements 
 which haven't helped a lot although a console command does let you use a server browser that really 
 should be in the game by default because at times it's all you have to let you join a decent server. 
 Some may argue over value and the content is indeed a little light, but it's one of the better 
 multiplayer games in years because it's such a tight cooperative multiplayer experience. I don't 
 recommend this title if you stick to single player, co-op can be fun and should be played before 
 diving into versus. Once you invest some time into versus mode and get a feel for the basic elements 
 you'll probably find quite a few hours of enjoyment.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: unemerge1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 6:36 am PT
Review:  When the game was installing, i thought that "Left 4 Dead" is just a another shoot em up zombie 
 game. But when i started the game... WHOAH !!!!!!!
  
  First of all, there is no story in the game, just 4 people who want to escape in 4 campagins containing 
 4 to 6 missions. This game, i think was designed for multiplay only i guess. So, you get to choose 
 a character from the four. Louis, a black skin office man. Bill, a war vetern (i think !?) Francis, 
 a biker. And Zoey, a girl college girl ( i think !? again !?!) .
  
  Lets talk about the graphics, using the almighty Soruce engine. The gfx are almost perfect. From 
 the survivors to the zombies to the environtments. The new addition to Source engine is the advanced 
 shader. I usually keep it at medium bcause my pc freezes if i set it to high. The weapons are great, 
 too bad there are only 6 but those are quite awesome too.
  
  Lets move on to gameplay, which you can see that it is GREAT. When i started the game and opened 
 a door, there was a zombie standing. I thought that it will come slowly slowly. But it started 
 to run and almost screamed !!! LOL ! At a time, suddenly hundreds of zombies come out of nowhere 
 to eat you, i call them "Wave of zombies" and it quite fun :) There are three special monsters 
 called Smoker, Hunter and the witch. (i totally hate the witch, almost takes away half of your 
 life -_- ) and there is also a mini-boss called Tank. Tank is like Hulk but a bit ugly and wears 
 a cool jeans (i wonder where he got those ? XD ) . There are no bosses in the end of any campaign, 
 just a wave of zombies come to attack you and you have to defend yourselves until the rescue comes. 
 The thing i like the most is when you get injured, a fellow survivor comes and heals you.
  
  Now with the sound, well... they are good. The weapons, the zombies and all that. No music during 
 the gameplay which is actually good because it creates a good dark feeling. The only time the music 
 comes is when a wave comes to attack you or a Tank comes. Voice acting is also amazing.
  
  Well thats about it. This... game... is... the... BOMB !!!. Great feeling, nice environtments.
  
 
  + Running Zombies
  +Good Environtments
  +Awesome GFX
  -No story
  -No bosses
  
  8.5\10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The__MCP
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2009 2:54 am PT
Review:  Look... str8 up, it's a crime that this game wasn't given more accolades. While I have yet to play 
 through MGS4, GTA4, and other highly acclaimed games of 2008 again, I'm STILL playing Left 4 Dead 
 every other day. It's going to be amazing when the first expansion, entitled the Survival Pack, 
 comes out. This game is just a FUN experience, and is a unique touch to the sometimes rehashed 
 first-person-shooter concept.
  
  If you don't like killing zombies, go see a doctor because something is wrong with you, and this 
 game is the ultimate zombie experience. Better than Dead Rising, better than any Half-Life mod, 
 better than Doom or another sci-fi horror game, this game is a classic because it understands one 
 important concept --- online multiplayer is where it's at!! If you're not playing your shooters 
 online, I feel sorry for you because you're missing 90% of most shooters. 
  
  What makes Left 4 Dead so novel is that it truly encourages TEAMWORK! Yeah, there are team-oriented 
 shooters like Wolfenstein and Team Fortress but with servers so large, and mostly human opponents, 
 you can still get by with a solo Rambo mentality. Not so with Left 4 Dead! If your teammates suck, 
 you suck. It's that simple. Whether you're playing solely against the AI in co-op mode, or playing 
 against human-controlled zombies, there are only 4 people per team, and having each other's backs 
 is VITAL! Using a microphone is also more important than almost any PC shooter I've ever played 
 which is encouraging because I feel that PC gaming lags behind Xbox with headsets. 
  
  The community is smaller than Counter-Strike, Battlefield and other popular shooters but it's a 
 tightly knit community encouraged by the terrific friends system in Steam, something borrowed from 
 Xbox Live and one of the few lessons PC gamers could learn from console gamers. Everyone who plays 
 more thana month knows the common defensive strategies and it's up to you to work with your teammates 
 and quickly figure out how you'll approach each map. One dumb newb can make it all fall apart, 
 and the rage quitting from people who are spoiled sports or refuse to get better can also hurt. 
 People rage quit this game more than any competitive online game I've ever played including sports 
 games, real-time strategy games and other smaller competitive online genres. 
  
  Having propped this game for being so fun with only a few maps, it's still the achillles heel of 
 this game. It needs new maps and mods NOW! You hear that Valve, get off your rear ends and give 
 us at least the SDK development tools because there are already people out there who have designed 
 maps from movies such as Dawn of the Dead and are just waiting for you to release your mapping 
 tools. It's also a rip that only 2 of the 4 co-op maps work in versus mode. I hope they don't charge 
 us just to play the other 2 in versus mode after only a few tweaks by the developers to make them 
 more even for human-controlled battles. 
  
  There have been a few online shooters that came out and addicted me for months. The Call of Duties, 
 Battlefield 1942, Return to Castle Wolfenstein, and I'm glad to say that Left 4 Dead is now on 
 that list and quickly surpassing my -- I have no Life records -- for most hours played. If you 
 can't appreciate Left 4 Dead, you are in serious need of help my friend, because this is one of 
 the most enjoyable online plays I've experienced in years. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IMaBIOHAZARD
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 7:00 pm PT
Review:  This game, in my own not-so-humble opinion, is game of the year 2008. It's the perfect combination 
 of multiplayer, zombies, hints of story, firepower, creepy movie music, and white-knuckle action.
 
  
  The white knuckle action is a pretty big draw here - the intensity is ratcheted all the way up 
 to 11 in this particular title. As usual, Valve is heaping polish and love upon its latest creation, 
 but it really shines through in how much it makes you care for your own survival.
  
  This is, roughly, the birth of a new genre. Although its a zombie game, the zombies can run. Never 
 been done before (to my knowledge) . Also, unlike Resident Evil, the previous go-to zombie game, 
 you can shoot while moving, and (in fact) its ENCOURAGED. 
  
  I wouldn't call this "survival horror", however. Although I've never seen a shooter that makes 
 you care enough for your own survival (half because it can take up to 5 or 6 minutes for you to 
 respawn, at the most, half because you can be generally scared of your enemies' capabilities) it 
 isn't Survival Horror in a traditional sense... you are almost always on the move, except for the 
 once-per-level Panic Events and occasional random Horde attack.
  
  The random element is KEY here; the AI is at such a level that you never know where your enemy 
 will be next, where that Hunter or Tank or Witch will spawn... that's because the AI "Director" 
 changes the difficulty and places the zombies to challenge you in a different way every time you 
 play... maybe you can learn the map, but you'll never learn your enemies' positions. That makes 
 the game HIGHLY replayable. Months later, I'm STILL enjoying it.
  
  The story is technically nonexistent. There are no cutscenes (save the awesome one at the beginning) 
 and the only dialogue is the context-sensitive semi-TF2 system that Valve had previously developed. 
 It works absolutely perfectly.
  
  Even though there isn't really a storyline, you can figure out stuff from the world around you; 
 writing on the walls of the saferooms (which can be hilarious as well as informative and deep) , 
 that guy in the church, Francis' tattoos, posters of all kinds... the world is very much alive (metaphorically 
 speaking) , even though its inhabitants are very much zombified.
  
  There aren't a lot of weapons, but they all work FANTASTICALLY. Even the hunting rifle, of which 
 many people look down upon as wasted potential, still has impressive firepower and usability as 
 compared to most other shooters. By forcing you to re-find the 2nd tier of weapons if you die, 
 it makes survival that much more of a priority, too.
  
  All in all, it just comes together SO well... I haven't seem a game with this level of mixed fun 
 and intensity since, well, Team Fortress 2, Valve's OTHER multiplayer shooter (which i also still 
 enjoy) . 
  
  The game is slighty buggy, but its a MULTIPLATFORM release, and their first major one at that, 
 so what did you expect? All roses? Not a chance when consoles come into play. 
  
  It's a fantastic buy, for fantastic gameplay. Get it NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MRAZY837
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 2:11 am PT
Review:  This game is a fantastic game to play.
  Especially good multiplayer for up to four people. The bosses (witches, tanks) are very exiting 
 and fun to battle. The bosses are very well balanced also. The witch has less health but is fast 
 and when you've startled it there wouldn't be much chance for you to survive without gotten hurt. 
 But the tank is a total different story. The tank has lots of health and is slow but if he gets 
 the chance to get near you and give you one of those big sweeps you will fly away but you wont 
 go unconscious yet but you wouldn't survive another one of those. And if you're teammates are far 
 away. There would only be 15% for you to survive. The zombie hoards are fun to do. When one of 
 them comes you will be warned by this special sound. Its especially fun to throw a pipe-bomb during 
 on of these hoards and all the zombies will run towards it and then it explodes thats a very good 
 way tot kill many zombies. A Molotov isn't as deadly but is great in defending you against a big 
 hoard of zombies attacking you. The boomers are very annoying and when they vomit on you or when 
 you kill one of them when they're very close to you. An entire hoard will come and everything is 
 blur so this makes it extra hard to kill the zombies.
  I overall think that this game is a great game to people who like zombie killing games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbzfreak
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Zombies... Check.
  Guns... Check.
  Crazy Moments... Check.
  
  Annoying kids with mic... Check.
  
  The above statements pretty much sum up this game. Basically 
 in a nutshell this game has you play as one of 4 survivors trying to get out of a zombie infested 
 area after an outbreak. Most of the characters you play as are stereotypes of movie characters 
 or video game characters.
  
  Zoey is a Claire Redfield like character.
  Bill is a retired kick butt soldier from the army.
  Francis is a stereotypical biker with an 
 attitude.
  Louis is the minority with an office job or a variation of the main character in 'Shaun of the 
 Dead'.
  
  There are two big game modes which can be played online. One mode is Campaign, which allows you 
 to team up with other people online to make it through missions until one final mission where you 
 escape on vehicle. 
  
  The other mode is the versus mode, this pits you against 4 other people and you take turns playing 
 through missions as the infected and the humans. The further you make it on the map as the humans, 
 the more points you get. So when you play as the infected you try to prevent players from getting 
 to the end of the map or from exploring much of the map. More points are accumulated if you can 
 make it further as the humans.
  
  The Infected team has special infected that they will spawn as. Infected can move around the map 
 until they like where they are at, then click to spawn in. They can only spawn in areas where survivors 
 can not see them, and they can not be to close to the survivors. Whenever one of them is killed 
 they have to wait a certain amount of time before spawning back in. Infected come in some unique 
 units such as:
  
  Smoker - These infected have long tongues that can latch around a victim and drag them back to 
 them, causing damage. Survivors can shoot them directly or in the tongue to detach a fellow survivor.
 
  
  Hunter - Fast and agile infected with low health but effective for picking off stray survivors 
 or jumping in during a confusing situation. They jump over far distances and can pounce on survivors, 
 effectively pinning them down and making them helpless unless some other survivor interferes.
 
  
  Boomer - My personal favorite infected, these big zombies throw up on survivors, releasing an odor 
 that attracts hordes of the regular zombies to whomever has vomit on them. The more survivors a 
 boomer throws up on at once, the bigger the horde is that comes. If a boomer also explodes near 
 survivors they can be splashed with the odor that attracts the horde. Low defense, but awesome 
 when played properly.
  
  Tank - These usually only spawn once or twice during a mission. The game randomly picks someone 
 to spawn as the tank. They can do high damage and can sometimes kill off most of a team. These 
 monsters can toss cars at people amongst other items. Extremely powerful and dangerous, but can 
 be killed with good teamwork.
  
  In versus mode you can have some interesting scenarios pan out. It works especially well if people 
 have mics, this allows for good communication and timing. You can make it through without mics 
 however if you are good enough, it is however much harder.
  
  If you purchase this game to play it offline, well you are in for a world of hurt. The AI is extremely 
 clunky, your AI friends will not pick up certain items, heal you at bad times, and step in front 
 of you way too much. In fact if you have time I suggest you watch a newgrounds flash movie, it's 
 called Left 4 LOL, it pretty much sums up my frustration with the AI.
  
  Playing versus mode online is definitely the most entertaining, but there aren't very many maps 
 to choose from. This however is set to change as more maps and weapons have been announced for 
 versus.
  
  Speaking of weapons, the game gives survivors the typical weapons. There is an uzi, assault rifle, 
 shotgun, pistols, and a sniper rifle. The pistols never run out of ammo. They also have grenades 
 and molotov cocktails. No rocket launchers yet. : (
  
  The only annoying part or downfall of this game is the same as every online game. Every so often 
 you get an annoying kid or adult who thinks they are a god at the game and everyone else is horrible. 
 This can hurt the game sometimes, because it's hard to get new people into a game if all people 
 do is yell at them while they are trying to learn. Some people do just play every now and then 
 and are not awesome at the game, this irritates some people. I however could care less as long 
 as the whole group is having a good time. This is only a minor annoyance though.
  
  The main reason I give this game an 8.5 instead of a 9 though is simply for the fact that the AI 
 is horrid. This does not matter when you are online playing with human players. However if a teammate 
 has to leave... guess what... you have the horrid AI as a partner and you will probably fail.
  
  Still a fun shooter regardless. If you want to shoot up some zombies and have a fun online 
 experience, then I highly recommend you pick this up. Graphics wise, if you can run Team Fortress 
 2, then this game should run fine for you.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackHawk912
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2009 8:13 am PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is a game all about zombie shooting and bashing, best played on-line with your friends 
 who have the game as well. If you play single player its pretty boring, mainly this game is all 
 about the On-line Campaign or the Versus Campaigns. Playing this all yourself on single player 
 destroys the hype of wanting to really play, so you play on-line and your all happy about it and 
 you can get achievements with your friends on any system including PC. Valve's creations today 
 are growing better and better, with the release of this and the orange box valve is getting greater 
 and greater each day. More or likely your going to get a machine gun or a shotgun throughout the 
 game, there are not many weapons, and you don't get many choices, if you do play stick with a machine 
 gun at all times or if your the backup guy get a hunting rifle throughout the campaign. Start off 
 by renting or buying this, great on any platform best played on the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbose22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 2:08 am PT
Review:  First off, for a game that's running off a dated gaming engine (source) , it looks very good, while 
 providing the incredible performance which all have come to know from the engine. While most of 
 the guns you have look and play like their counter-strike counterpart, shooting zombies is a wholly 
 different feel an experience thanks to great gore models for the zombies.
  
  It not only looks good, but sounds very good as well. The soundtrack is dynamic and really builds 
 up the thrill of the moment, whether you're being pounced on by a hunter, or swarmed by hordes 
 of zombies after being barfed on by a boomer. 
  
  The guns sound great and feel fairly satisfying, although there's nothing really new. Apart from 
 the pipe-bomb, all the weapons feel fairly standard fair, and nothing will really surprise you 
 there or feel revolutionary. That's not to say that the weapons are bad, they play well, and work 
 with the zombie apocalypse experience as a whole. 
  
  Playing through the game, you will at some point wish that there were more weapons or levels. The 
 fact that there are only standard fair weapons leaves a lot to be desired. One can't help but wonder 
 what other deliciously satisfying ways you could be blowing up zombies, as you'll end up playing 
 with generally one gun of your preference throughout the campaign (or switching to its superior 
 counterpart as you find it) . Furthermore, it also feels like there could be more levels, as playing 
 through 4 campaigns over and over again (and only 2 in versus mode) makes it feel as if the developers 
 didn't really think that any player would want more (and they do) . 
  
  The AI director remedies many of the problems which would be associated with playing a level over 
 and over again. By constantly throwing something new again, the game manages to stay fresh even 
 though you find yourself walking through similar environments. It also helps to adequately balance 
 the waves of enemies according to a player's gaming style to provide and adequate challenge.
  
  All this being said, Left 4 Dead is definitely a game which you should check out. It manages 
 to keep you engaged and entertained, and while you can't help but wish there was more, the adequately 
 challenging and fast-paced gaming is a must-experience for any hard-core FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ranzou
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2009 11:55 pm PT
Review:  Steam had a "4 Finger Discount" sale and I made the plunge on this game. Was it ever worth it!
 
  
  This has to be one of the most action intense games I have ever played, and I own over 300.
  
 
  The storyline is non-existent. Simply get from point A to point B and survive. Why there is zombies, 
 we don't know. Just shoot anything that ain't on your team. On each level, about 500 attack you 
 - leaving very little time to think, re-group, or strategize on the move.
  
  The 4 player element is quite nice, because this game requires teamwork. The AI players, when used, 
 are very good - sometimes better than real people. But playing with your buddies definitely makes 
 a difference and adds to the realism.
  
  Achievements are an added bonus, sometimes requiring planning before staring a game, others just 
 dumb luck. But still, the 50 achievements actually enhance the game.
  
  Worth $50? Maybe not.
  Worth $25? Definitely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwiftStallion
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 9:49 pm PT
Review:  Zombie and Apocalypse are two words that go together like bread and butter. While initially hesitant 
 about the use of the Source engine (yet again) , I decided to take a step in Valve's direction once 
 more.
  
  Left 4 Dead veers away from convention in many respects, most notably in the splitting of the game 
 into 4 medium length campaigns. Weapons aren't particularly numerous, but pack appropriate punch. 
 The common infected enemy is weak, but fast, and happily greets you in large hordes. The special 
 infected can create piercing moments of anxiety as your team of survivors is slowly pulled apart. 
 You will find yourself chasing achievements that you once thought impossible. All in all, Left 
 4 Dead is a wonderful game that will tickle your senses and produce more than one gasp of excitement.
 
  
  It is highly recommended that you try out the solo campaigns before you attempt multiplayer. You 
 will get a feel of the game and the locations, as well as the enemies you will encounter. Items 
 like pipe bombs and molotovs are distributed randomly throughout the levels, and enemies will spawn 
 in different places. The gameplay is solid and consistently enjoyable, and the spawning system 
 allows for great replay value.
  
  However, there are certain drawbacks. The AI leaves much to be desired. In certain instances of 
 defending a location against a horde of zombies, your team will refuse to cooperate with your strategy. 
 As opposed to firing from a corner that is easier to defend, you may find your team mates running 
 into the open. They simply refuse to use pipe bombs and molotovs, which can be crucial for a team's 
 survival.
  
  The true strength of Left 4 Dead is its multiplayer component; especially Versus Mode. Eight people 
 are grouped into two teams of four, which will alternate levels within the campaign as both Survivor 
 and Infected. The team that performs better will receive more points after each stage, and the 
 team with the most points after the finale wins.
  
  Navigating streets and woodlands knowing that "intelligent" zombies are stalking you is exhilarating. 
 A good team will coordinate by using microphones and typing, and can truly make the advance of 
 the Survivors nigh impossible. Playing as the Infected is especially enjoyable, as you are always 
 one of four special infected. Each zombie requires a different approach, but each one offers many 
 qualities to enjoy.
  
  Teamwork is the primary focus and allure of Left 4 Dead. This allows for both great and frustrating 
 moments. A team that works together and listens to each other is a joy seldom experienced in other 
 games. However, there can be frequent run-ins with players that quit unexpectedly, or more likely 
 than not, because their team's score is low. The "Rager" as it has become known, is a player that 
 can seriously stain one's opinion of Left 4 Dead.
  
  The graphics of Left 4 Dead are surprisingly good considering the use of the Source engine yet 
 again. Physics are solid and perform well. The wound inflicted on a zombie render a realistic response. 
 The environment is grainy and dirty, which any post apocalyptic zombie world should be. While the 
 graphics are not cutting edge like those of Crysis or Far Cry 2, the requirements are much less 
 stressful on the frame rate.
  
  The sound is magnificent. Certain music scores indicate the arrival of special infected. While 
 subtle, they are effective indicators of a new threat. Zombies groan, scream, and squish wonderfully. 
 The voice acting is wonderful and varied. The friendship between the four survivors is warm and 
 humorous, as long as the undead aren't around to spoil it (which they will be anyway) .
  
  The key in Left 4 Dead is the team system. Playing with friends online is immensely satisfying 
 and intense. The single player simply does not compare. However, splattering zombies or eating 
 the living has never been more fun. Superb action combined with good teamwork make Left 4 Dead 
 a vastly entertaining experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dallbowl
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2009 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Well Valve have ventured down the by now familiar path of hordes of zombies hunting down the last 
 known survivors of humanity. But this time, it comes with a twist. The zombies are mindless yes, 
 but they are ferocious, speedy and highly motivated to kick and punch you into submission. Not 
 only that, the 'special' infected all have their own way of rendering you helpless to the apparent 
 never ending supply of infected villains. Not only does this keep you on your toes constantly throughout 
 the game, it adds to a much faster paced game than simply fighting off stumbling and limping zombies 
 as they slowly step towards you. Valve have implemented good game play mechanics that emphasize 
 the need for cooperative play. Often, success or failure of your 4 survivor team will be determined 
 by how well your team functions as exactly that, a team.
  
  The graphics will be very familiar to players that have become well accustomed to Source engine 
 games. The graphics are not exactly groundbreaking, but they excel at portraying a scenario where 
 humanity is on the verge of extinction. Abandoned offices, environments littered with messages 
 from other survivors, abandoned cars and empty streets all portray an urgency that has forced humans 
 to abandon day-to-day life and focus on one thing: survival. The effects are well done, the gore 
 lover will find the decapitation of zombies a delightful treat, the zombie rag dolls are quite 
 good to watch, and the lighting and physics are up to the standards that one would expect from 
 a Source engine game.
  
  The player characters are well done, they move in a realistic way, they do have limited dialogue, 
 but since the game does not feature a story-driven campaign, it is understandable. Probably the 
 least desirable part of the game is just that; the absence of a story-driven campaign. Valve are 
 well known for their storytelling after the release of Half-Life and all of its follow up games. 
 It just seems to me that Left 4 Dead could have really excelled with an emphasis on a story given 
 the situation the survivors are in. Even so, the campaign mode is a blast, especially when you 
 play co-op with friends via. the internet or LAN. I do highly suggest that you do play this game 
 with other people, the computer allies are useful on the lower difficulties, but almost useless 
 on the higher difficulties. The game features 4 cooperative campaigns that range from being in 
 offices, streets, farmland, airport terminals and hospitals.
  
  The game is not terribly difficult on easy to medium as one would expect, since they are called 
 easy and medium, but there are a few useful techniques to learn that can be used to counter certain 
 special infected attacks, or save survivors. Such as melee'ing a survivor who has fallen victim 
 to the smokers tongue, instead of just running up and shooting the smoker as he may be in a difficult 
 position to get to. Usually there are multiple ways to avoid attacks from the special infected, 
 and for some newer players, these may not always be totally evident when you play the game. Now, 
 the Expert difficulty is where teamwork is absolutely essential. You will not finish it if you 
 have a team that does not work together (unless you are e-man, master of the video game universe) .
 
  
  For the more competitive gamer there is the Versus mode, where you can play as any of the 4 special 
 infected against a team of 4 survivors. The game is relatively well balanced as a good team will 
 usually always win when the points are tallied at the end. The infected team requires coordination 
 when attacking, or most attacks will just end with survivors killing one of you and then going 
 on their merry way to the next safe room. There are a few glitches that Valve will need to iron 
 out for both coop and versus mode as they give one team an unfair advantage over another. It is 
 quite satisfying to launch an attack on a lone survivor that is split up from the pack, or to coordinate 
 and participate in an attack that brings the survivors to their grizzly doom.
  
  As for the amounts of infected on each map, it differs due to the "AI-director" Valve have implemented 
 into the game. This omnipotent God of the zombie apocalyptic world has the power to spawn hordes 
 of zombies when it feels you are either being too cautious or just in need of a test. Because of 
 this great game feature, zombie hordes and special infected do not spawn in the same spot over 
 and over. 
  
  All in all, for an extremely fun and enjoyable FPS experience, L4D is definitely worth it. The 
 emphasis on team work is so well established that lone-gunmen will be easy prey to the infected 
 hordes. The game keeps you on your toes as danger can strike from any moment. It is not the most 
 scary of games, but it is action-packed, tense and strangely satisfying when you and your teammates 
 stop the zombie hordes from pummeling you to death.
  
  Also Valve will soon be releasing a new game mode and extra content as part of their "L4D Survivor 
 Pack". 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drkl0rd2000
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 21, 2009 6:39 am PT
Review:  Excellent game, this shooter does so much right it is easy to crack a smile of joy while your mowing 
 down zombies with your assault rifle.
  
  First the zombies are not your slow resident evil type, no these are the kick your %&& super fast 
 type seen in 28 days later. Your goal as one of 4 survivors is to stay alive and make it to the 
 next safe room. Your ultimate goal is to escape during the final stage be it by sea, land or air; 
 a rescue vehicle will come and pick you up. The various difficulty settings in campaign are a blast, 
 there's nothing that will ruin your day like having another play accidently clip you with some 
 friendly-fire on expert causing in instant incapacation. There are 4 campaigns to complete and 
 all 4 have their own feel to them, the AI director does its job well in keeping pace and making 
 things interesting.
  
  Once you complete all 4 or before you can jump into the VS mode here is where things become a mixed 
 bag. There are only 2 of the 4 campaigns available for VS so it can get boring playing the same 
 maps over and over. To spice things up there are a nice collection of infected for you to play, 
 3 special and then the Tank. Though 3 different types of infected sounds sparse it actually works 
 well so as to not unbalance the game. 
  
  This is truely a game of working together, Rambo types who love to go all solo will find themselves 
 being ripped apart by a hunter. Likewise a slowpoke will find themselves at the mercy of a special 
 infected. To survive as the survivors you MUST work together and to bring down the survivors as 
 infected you MUST work together. This game is all about teamwork, if you fail that you fail.
  
  The only negatives are as with all source engine games there are cheats and exploits that could 
 detract from the overall atmosphere of the game. The AI director is not as random as valve claims, 
 once you have some hours under your belt you will be accurately predicting panic rush locations, 
 tank spawn locations and whatnot. The initial release content is somewhat thin with only 4 campaigns 
 in co-op and only 2 campaigns in VS. Suffers from some console-itus with its matchmaking/lobby 
 system and the signal strength bars instead of numbers for ping but this does not generally detract 
 from the overall game. I would like to see some new campaigns and additional survivors added that 
 would help keep the immersion factor high, so if a player is killed he can respawn as a different 
 survivor.
  
  What this game really needs to survive is CONTENT. However given Valves rep. I would wager we can 
 safely bet there will be much more LEFT4DEAD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benjiman_Guile
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2009 10:42 am PT
Review:  Whats more fun than knowing you can kill anyone you want? I'm a nice guy, and I don't kill nice 
 guys, but these are zombies here. Take out your frustrations on them! Or you can be evil, player 
 Versus, and shut down any hopes of mankind's survival.
  
  Single Player: 
  
  The AI is plain silly. They can't toss molotovs/pipebombs. It will be a drag getting them to follow 
 what you are doing. It is preferred that you hone your knowledge and skills on single player campaign 
 first, before going online and playing with others. Otherwise, you will get a scolding if you do 
 something "noobish" on Online Expert. 
  
  Multiplayer Campaign: 
  
  Fun, but not very addictive. The levels are the same over and over again with the exception of 
 health packs and weapons, and enemy spawns. Same as single player, but allows for more epic fun 
 on Advanced and Expert campaigns. You're going to need a very competent team to make it alive in 
 Expert.
  
  Versus:
  
  The best L4D has to offer. 2 of the 4 campaigns are available. Its a shame that a lot of us initially 
 bought the game for 50$, and it only has 2 versus campaigns. In here, you get to go 4v4. Each team 
 gets to take turns as the Infected and try to stop the Survivor team from getting to the saferoom. 
 You will need to learn basic strategy as an Infected. i suggest going on youtube. com and searching 
 for some tips and tricks. 
  
  Versus is insanely fun. Nothing feels better than working as a well-oiled machine and stopping 
 the Infected from doing anything, or stopping the Survivors from going anywhere. 
  
  
  L4D is worth the 50$, even with only 2 Versus campaigns. Credit to someone on the gamefaqs L4D 
 forum: If you go watch a movie, and spend 10$, that will equate to about 2-3 hours of entertainment. 
 For 50$, thats about 10-15 hours of entertainment. With L4D, it is a guarantee that you will want 
 to play it each and everyday, for extended periods of time, if you're into simple FPS games. 
 
  
  Steam recently had a L4D sale, bringing the cost down by half. Don't know if it is still going 
 on, but even with the regular 50$ price tag, it will be worth it. Plus, DLC is coming in Spring, 
 and hopefully Steam will deliver on it's set date. 
  
  FILL THY HORN WITH OIL, AND GO! GET THE GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nature-elf
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2009 8:10 am PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is one of those shooters that you will really enjoy playing with a bunch of friends... 
 mainly because you co-operate and not try to shoot the hell out of each other.
  
  Left 4 Dead puts you in the role of 4 survivors thus the punt Left 4 Dead... and you can choose 
 to play as 1 of them... which really doesn't make any difference.
  
  
  Fighting hordes of zombies and shooting them is the main part of the game... really like a brainless 
 shoot-em up... but to make up for the mindlessness shooting (because you are not the zombie most 
 of the time) ... you are task with protecting the the 3 survivors which could either be bots ,people 
 you meet online or friends. If 1 dies... it's probably fine... if 2 dies... you have a problem... once 
 3 are gone... you are screwed.
  
  So other than shooting zombies after zombies... you essentially have to ensure that your pals are 
 able to survive as well otherwise it'd be impossible to make it through the whole level.
  
  The downside of this game is the limitation of campaigns or maps.. giving you only 4 to choose 
 from... and the 4 actually feels really similar after a while... 
  
  But with friends playing along with you and screaming at each other for help... you will soon forgot 
 about the repetitiveness of the map and start screaming along with your friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _FORCE_96
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2009 8:03 am PT
Review:  Right off the bat, Left 4 Dead (L4D) is one of my favourite games so far. Basically, you don't 
 get any background on it but the world has been struck by a disease (like in 28 days later) that 
 turns you into a mindless, blood thirsty infected. The main jist is that you have four chapters 
 which are not linked together of 5 levels in each, where you have to fight your way to a rescue 
 point with a finale at the end of each chapter.
  
  Core gameplay is very fun. You have your uzi, sniper, assualt rifle and shotgun to choose from 
 with molotovs, pipe bombs and your generic pistol (s) to back this up. You run about killing infected 
 which might sound boring after a while but it isn't. Valve have implemented a zombie AI generator 
 which means that you have completely random rushes of zombies which means that there are no set 
 paths of enemies to shoot your way through, highly improving replayability. There are also special 
 infected that are more specialized such as vomiting that attracts the horde, tongue pulling and 
 constriction, pouncing and brute force. These really mix it up a bit and so you have to adapt your 
 strategy on the fly to cope with your new opponent.
  
  L4D is a co-operative game. There is a good single-player mode but it just isn't the same as playing 
 online. This means you have to work together countering threats, helping eachother up, healing 
 eachother or saving them from a horde of infected and specials. This means that you can be doing 
 well until somebody get captured by a smoker so you have to adapt to the situiation to save your 
 fellow survivor and keep your strength up as a team. To further enhance gameplay you have mini 
 and full finales where you have to trigger something to either pass through or escape. This then 
 prompts a massive horde horde of infected to try and overwhelm you which is very fun, as you are 
 given time to prepare traps. 
  
  Graphically, L4D is good. I said accessible as you dont have to have even a medium strenght rig 
 to play this game well. The souce engine from counter-strike is used to achieve this so the graphics 
 arent bad. You also get a flashlight which excellently creates tension and atmosphere. Sound is 
 very good from screams of infected to the iconic drum rush music of an approaching horde of infected. 
 This really enhances the game experience.
  
  In terms of extras, you have a very good achievments system that gives you some goals to aim at 
 and the game also comes with a very in depth and interesting developer commentary.
  
  Overall, L4D is a fantastic, social game to mostly be enjoyed online with outstanding gameplay 
 that would et 10/10 but the ok graphics and a lack of maps mark it down. Replayability isnt compromised 
 as the game constantly mixes it up which means every time you play will be just as much of a violent, 
 adrenaline rush as the previous one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow9669
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2009 11:50 am PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead bean out since Nov 2008 and even to this day in 2009 I cant stop going back to it. 
 Killing zombies how don't want to do that zombie killing rocks.
  
  If your an have the game for the 360 and your like me and love getting achievements this game has 
 some easy achievements you could get around 500 to 700 GS without even trying but then you get 
 hard achievements, like your team not taking any damage after calling the rescue at the end or 
 that zombie genocide achievement related to Dead rising kill like 53,529.. think it was.
  
  The Game AI director is the best thing ever for a video game because i bet a lot of people get 
 bored of a game if they have to play the campaign multiple times for achievements and The AI enemy 
 are always popping up in the same places, In this game no matter how many times you play the zombies 
 don't spawn in the same place, you could walk into a room and there are zombies in that room next 
 play threw you go to that same room and no zombies spawn instead they spawn out of that other room 
 that was empty last play threw.
  
  All i have to say is don't be the one Left 4 dead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orzornn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 3:43 am PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead was one of those things I couldn't wait to get my hands on when I first heard it was 
 coming out... from Valve! My friend first brought it over on the 360 and I really wanted to play 
 it on the PC because it typically has better graphics ect than the console version ( Depending 
 on your computer specs. )
  
  Gameplay 8/10
  The gameplay is great no doubts, but single player is definitly lacking and Expert difficulty is 
 impossible or near it to play with the computer's as they often run in your way or just arn't smart 
 enough to do that technique you and 
  your friends got down. The online has it hands down however!
  
  Sound 10/10
  The sound is 
 key to this game... Without it you wouldn't know if a hoard was coming or a hunter, smoker, tank, witch 
 was nearby! It add's eerie effect's to the enviroment and this game is a killer with the audio.
 
  
  Graphics 9.5/10
  Graphics are great but they arn't a new achievement, yet they provide eye inspiring dark corridors 
 for you to explore and a constant frame rate while hoards of zombies fly at you from nowhere!
 
  
  Overall 9.5/10
  Overall L4D is a great game with amazing audio; awsome online with your friends and amazign audio 
 to go along with it... L4D is worth the 49 bucks or if you were on steam this weekend (FEB 14) 
 it was 50% off! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_hated_one27
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 1:32 pm PT
Review:  *May Contain Spoilers and is quite long*
  First off, Let's talk about the Graphics, Creativity and Sound.
  Graphics-10: The graphics in this 
 game are WAY better than I thought. The detail in the characters and the zombies are exceptional.
 
  Audio-9.5: The sound is very good. The noises the zombies make are cool and right on target. Allowing 
 the characters to talk to each other is creative.
  Creativity-8.0: The Creativity is really the bad part about the game, but it is easy to overlook. The 
 different kinds of zombies are nice, but the creativity of the different levels could be better. Having 
 only 4 different places to go gets boring after a while, since you may know what is coming.
  
  Now on to the Gameplay.
  Single Player-8.5: The Single Player in the game is "acceptable". 
 The only downside is when your teammates do something stupid and it costs you your life.
  Campaign-8.5: Campaign is when you play online with other people and fend off zombies in one of 
 the 4 places. The 2 downsides are the same as Single Player, and the work you have to do before playing 
 online.
  Versus-9.0: May be the best part about Left4Dead. In Versus, you can play as one of the infected, which 
 is good fun. Being Human, you only live once, but as an infected, you can respawn at any time. I like 
 Versus the most.
  Long story short, Left4Dead is a game you shouldn't pass up. I enjoy this game, and im sure you will 
 too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x3lnaga86
Rating: 1.5
Date: Feb 13, 2009 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Four player online co-op game that invites you and 3 other friends/people to shoot lots and lots 
 of zombies. This concept sounded amazing, yet the final game is a rush job with serious faults 
 that halts this game longevity.
  
  Brokeness:
  
  -STEAM is always laggy
  -disconnects you while on STEAM or in-game
  -cannot find servers
  -servers shutdown at the 
 last scene of the campaign just as your about to finish that campaign
  -Friends list is utter garbage as it is a choir to find a friend and message them.
  -Not being 
 able to identify someone who's only going to servers to screw everyone at the last moment.
  -Game runs like turd, it slows down to extremely low frame rates on even the lowest resolutions 
 and doesn't care what graphic card you have. Running on 1280x1024 or 1920x1200 on a Q6600 o/c to 
 3.5, GTX 295, 4gig 1002 5-5-5-12, xp3 32bit. 181.22 drivers and 182.05. Frame rate is between 30-60. 
 
  --This game looks like HALF-LIFE 2 with special lighting and I'm getting these kinda frame rates??
 
  (I am able to run CRYSIS on VERY HIGH on 1920x1200 with about 30 FPS CONSTANT. 
  -Goodlord, what a sloppy XBOX 360 port.
  -Game utilizes extreme amounts of processing power on 
 low rez texture zombies -_-.
  -Whenever there is a STEAM sale, server connections goes to ****.
  -I'm not going to even begin 
 to discuss how short the 4 campaigns and crappy VERSUS mode is all about, as that will take 5 pages 
 to explain the shortcuts that Valve has taken with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BenTheJamin
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2009 1:17 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a huge fan of Valve and game after game they keep amazing me with their creativity 
 and ingenuity. Even before the release I was looking forward to Left 4 Dead, I was the kid that 
 had it pre-ordered the very minute you could. The second I played the demo I was hooked, and I 
 have been playing it non-stop since then. Sometimes when I fire up the game I think "Isn't this 
 boring yet?" but it's not, every time I play I have a different and new experience. The best part 
 of the game is definitely the versus, I have found a great group of guys that I play with on a 
 daily basis. Left 4 Dead makes it easy to play with your friends. It is also a game that takes 
 a great amount of skill and intelligence to play, which I really appreciate. You won't find a bunch 
 of 10 year olds here, almost everyone I have run into online is over the age of 16. I am getting 
 only more excited for this game with the release of the survival pack and the SDK, because the 
 PC gamer community is amazing at reinventing games. If you don't have this game, BUY IT! Even if 
 you have a low end rig, it is very accessible, and even looks quite good on the lowest settings. 
 One last thing, ONLY buy this for PC, I played the 360 version in my friend's dorm and it is TERRIBLE. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VideoGameNerd77
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 13, 2009 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Counter-Strike: Source and DoD: Source are arguably two of the best multiplayer games of all time. 
 Their developer, Valve, known for its Half Life and Counter-Strike games, took over development 
 of Left 4 Dead from Turtle Rock Studios, and no doubt, the end result was better than Turtle Rock's 
 version, but that isn't saying much. Honestly, it's shocking how such a terrible game could come 
 from a company that has made incredible games in the past.
  
  Gameplay: 2/10
  The gameplay, at first, is actually fun. The concept of a small band of random people fighting 
 off hordes of "infected", as the game calls them, is a good concept. The game is divided into four 
 levels with four stages in each. You take control of one of four players and fight through hordes 
 of zombies, armed with a pistol, and 5 other various weapons that you find throughout each level. 
 The weapons, ranging from Uzis to M16s, are realistic looking and each has its own advantages and 
 disadvantages. Among the regular infected, there are also five types of boss infected that make 
 the game much more difficult. Strangely, however, only four of them are playable in the game's 
 Versus mode (four characters, four levels, four stages, four playable infected, Left 4 Dead; Valve 
 seriously overrused four in this game) . The AI, hands down, is superb. The AI makes the zombies 
 actually act like zombies. They wander aimlessly until you come into sight, then they go crazy 
 and charge at you. You'll no doubt be scared at certain points in the game. Every level is randomly 
 filled with enemies and items; no constant spawnpoints (except for the humans) for items or enemies. 
 Though the gameplay sounds good, it isn't. In fact, it's terrible. At first, the game's fun, but 
 after about half an hour, it gets old. All you do is run from point a (the spawnpoint) , fight off 
 zombies at point b (usually where you activate something such as an elevator or crane) , then run 
 to point c (the safehouse) . In the last level in each stage, the gameplay system is exactly the 
 same, except there are only two points in the last levels; the spawnpoint and the survival point, 
 in which you face off against two massive hordes of infected. The gameplay just isn't fun. It gets 
 far too boring far too fast. Also, Valve apparently put all their effort into making the game as 
 gory as possible and not making the gameplay as good as possible. The game is an absolute gore 
 fest; in fact, there's so much gore, it's just plain unrealistic and stupid. There is the Versus 
 mode, in which you play as one of four types of infected and fight human players, but once again, 
 it's just the same stuff over and over again. Also, the lack of a good selection of weapons is 
 ridiculous in this game. The only reason I didn't give this game's gameplay rating a zero is because 
 of the AI system. What starts out as a fairly fun game becomes nothing but crap in about 30 minutes.
 
  
  Sound: I wouldn't know. I turn off my speakers before each level since the gunshots are so bloody 
 loud and the zombies' screams are so bloody unnerving.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Each stage features numerous physicalized objects and very good graphics.
  
  Replayability: 
 4/10
  After finishing the first level, there's not really anything different about the next four levels, 
 so you probably won't even want to play the game any more.
  
  Overall: 1/10
  This game is an absolute waste of money and time. Don't buy it. You'll want to return it after 
 you've played it for about 45 minutes, but you can't return the PC version, because the game is 
 connected to your stupid Steam account, and you can't resell it or trade it or return it. The gameplay 
 is bad, the sound is bad, the game is just plain terrible. This game's a rotting piece of zombie 
 crap that Valve tried to make look better by drenching it with as much blood and gore as possible. 
 Don't buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilikerome
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2009 1:28 am PT
Review:  At first left for dead is a scare to first time players, offering tons of strategy and planning. 
 Set on the need for teamwork, those who wish to go on thier own without teammates are most likely 
 doomed. However after playing the game through a few times players can easily figure out which 
 paths are best to take. The only real difference is how the timing of hordes same place twice in 
 a row but will appear of zombies changes, they wont appear in that location possibly next time 
 you play.
  
  The special boss characters such as "the witch" "the tank" "the smoker" "the hunter" ect are all 
 key factors in the challenging part of the game where you will encounter these characters you must 
 use quick action to defeat these foes before they kill you. There is the challenge where players 
 can easily be reduced to being paralysed by the onslaught of bosses and zombie hordes.
  
  Overall this game has a magnificent spectacle, but the system requirements are only easily met 
 by expert gamers. This is not the game to by for easy going first time gamers as they are not fully 
 aware of what pc they are looking for. Graphics are spectacular with the characters and surrounding 
 buildings.
  A definite buy for the gamer wishing to go through an onslaught of enemies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sBsLeonidas
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2009 4:59 pm PT
Review:  L4D i a great game... well actually its an alright game. It has many bad quality to it which make 
 it exasperating to play like only having 4 campaign maps with 5 levels per map and only having 
 10 weapons to chose from also makes the game pretty monotonous. The zombies are all the same and 
 don't pose to much of a challenge which makes it easy to master the game in a matter of hours, 
 unless you get some ninjas behind you (ninjas meaning lone zombies that sneak up behind you and 
 cause damage) . even the specials are pretty boring, most of the time you can hear them before they 
 attack so you have a pretty good idea of were they are before you get there. And the severs are 
 provided by steam which has the worst ping rates of any Ive ever seen. The one thing that was really 
 fun were all the neat glitches and exploits in the game but steam came out with an update and took 
 em away which made the game even more bloody retarded. my 2 favorites were the machine gun glitch 
 and the no mercy elevator glitch. When me and my buds came across a mounted gun we would play skeet, 
 one person would yell "PULL!!!" then a guy would jump on the gun and the shooters would try to 
 kill him before he hit the ground. And in the 4th level of no mercy were you get in the elevator, 
 if you threw a pipe bomb, oxygen tank or molotov at somebody they would fall through the floor. 
 If you were good sometimes you could get all three of them at once. I really wish steam would put 
 those back on.
  
  However this game todaly redeems its self and then some when it comes to online play. First the 
 most people arnt butt heads like most the players in COD4. Almost every one uses a mic which Ive 
 been waiting for forever. The CSS based engine is fantastic, source makes every thing look better. 
 The blood effects are awesome! Especially when you wipe out 20 zombies with a pipe bomb. But the 
 thing that really makes this game worth while is the console codes. There is nothing like opening 
 your own lobby letting some poor suckers in that don't know whats going on, getting in game and 
 spawning 7 or 8 tanks right on top of them. So with this in mind on a scale of 1-10 i rate it at 
 11 because even though the game sucks, these cheesy little extras make the L4D the funest game 
 i have ever played... THANK YOU VALVE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TenP
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2009 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Graaaaaaaaaaaaaains...
  
  *Drums*
  
  Left 4 Dead is a Zombie Survival Co-op game developed by Half Life developer VALVe software but 
 you all probably know that.
  
  Imagine yourself waking up to being surrounded by zombies, (Well, they're not zombies... They're 
 just diseased, with Super Rabies *dun dun duuun.* Similar to the hit movie series 28 ___ Later) 
 and you have to find your way out of the situation. The thing is, L4D requires complete synchronization 
 with your team if you want to win and it's great if you have friends to play with, but otherwise 
 you're stuck with a bunch of pubbers or bots and it's not fun then.
  
  Left 4 Dead was originally difficult, the group of friends I typically played with had difficulty 
 beating the first level on expert let alone the entire campaign but now it seems like it's almost 
 too easy. We can beat a campaign with no retries in about an hour. My record was 56 minutes on 
 Dead Air, but DA is the easiest campaign.
  
  Versus mode is fantastic, it's basically the campaign mode but put two survivors teams against 
 eachother and when you're not the survivor you play as one of the four zombie bosses! (Hunter, 
 Boomer, Smoker and occasionally Tank) . You get points based on how far you get as survivors, so 
 you're on the complete attack as the zombies.
  
  Overall it's really fun, I'd only have a couple complaints. A) Only 8 people can play at a time, 
 max. B) You need to know people with the game to play it with, or you'll be bored outta your minds.
 
  
  Graphics- 8.5
  Sound-9.5
  Gameplay-9.5
  Replayability-10
  
  Overall, 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 7, 2009 9:12 am PT
Review:  Now dont get your panties in a bunch and start giving thumbs down cause your jealous of my amazing 
 game reviewing skills. Look the game on pc looks good but its lacking. Sounds wierd saying this 
 but the xbox 360 version has this one beat. The game on pc has annoying controls compared to console 
 and the graphics are actually not as good as they are on xbox. I posted the same review as the 
 xbox version below, however it has a lower score due to the above factors mentioned. A pc copy 
 is supposed to be the ultimate edition and it just didnt deliver the way it was supposed to.
  
  
  
  Damn, Damn, Damn, Finally DAMN BROTHER! Finally a fricken game that delivers with zombie 
 killing. No cheap puzzles to leave you stuck for hours. No running through this door to get the 
 key to do this. No cheap crap. A straight up blow there head off action, horror game with no catches 
 nor strings attacthed. No perv not g strings, Strings as in catches. Geeze get your mind out of 
 the gutter.... Phew, some people.
  
  Anyways, before i was so rudely interrupted by my imaginary friend. This game delivers on all cylinders. 
 First thing you notice when it comes to a game is visuals. This game had visuals like a little 
 boy at a strip club. This game was more bloody then a little boy at a micheal jackson concert. 
 This game..... Okay you get the point. 
  
  Imagine a game, where you go from point A in the level, Trying to survive goint to point B. Sounds 
 a little boring. Well guess what loudmoth, its not. This game truly is a dose of hell that kicks 
 pure ass. The graphics are top notch and brings out the best of the xbox. Another great thing is 
 it will literally offer you a hundred hours of gameplay trying to unlock all the achievements. 
 So you definitely get your 60 dollars worth witch is very very important considering the ass known 
 as bush just left office. THE X PRESIDENT NOT THE PORN SITE. OH BOY HERE WE GO AGAIN! 
  
  Back to the review, The game is truly meant for online multiplayer not just allowing you to play 
 with friends to beat a level. This game is so cool it will let you play as a blood sucking, tounge 
 licking, smoking ugly looking zombie with burnt flesh. You could play as shamu as a zombie and 
 its just pure mayhem. The game has the shock factor like AAAHHH DAMN! DIDNT EXPECT THAT POOP TO 
 COME FROM THAT CORNER! (poop was subjugated from the other literal term...... thankyou) . 
  
  The game in my personal opinion is the best game of the year on xbox for 2008. The game is 
 brilliant and valve is amazing for developing a game like this. We have waited for so damn long, 
 games have come close but havent delivered like this one. Each game has 5 chapters per level. You 
 can choose any level. The game has a total of 4 levels. Its pretty much a house of the dead game 
 on steroids and punches harder then mike tyson and tina turner in a cock fight.
  
  The only reason why this game did not get a perfect score is because if you dont have xbox live. 
 Dont get this game. The games story mode on single player is very fun but gets old quick. If you 
 have xbox live then this game is the best game you can buy for your console. Much better then any 
 other crap that came out,
  
  Hope you enjoyed your sunday school episode of reviews of games that came from my ass. Now go buy 
 it you, you, you, you, homosapien. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armaan8014
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2009 2:20 am PT
Review:  What a rocking game! My friend and and i can't seem to get enough of it. Choosing your fave character, 
 getting out in the streets, and killing the undead is awesome.
  
  The game has no straight story. The main plot is that a zombie apocalypse has hit the world, and 
 everyone is infected.
  You are one of the four survivors, who have to get to a rescue point in each level.
  
  The 
 greatest thing in the game is you'll never get scared, but you'll always be tensed, especially 
 when you hear the witch crying. Planning attacks with your friend is also fun, like when my friend 
 had gone down on the street with an smg, and i was sniping (from a building) any undead who would 
 try to attack him from the back.
  
  it is obvious that this is one super game, and there's no question whether you should get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ausutorarisu
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 7, 2009 4:18 am PT
Review:  First and foremost, this is only a half review but I don't think that makes much difference. In 
 one line, Left 4 Dead is the most straightforward shooter I have ever played. Is it good? Partially. 
 Tactical shooters are dominating the HD era and run-n-gun shooters like this feel like a break 
 from those asking you to take cover all the time. Is there anything wrong? You bet. Perhaps it 
 is just me but don't you feel mistreated by low production value like this? There is no plot, no 
 documents, no characterization. I almost said no cut-scenes. Well, there are, but only for ten 
 seconds each at the beginning and the end of a campaign showing where you start and you are rescued 
 respectively.
  
  
  Alright, how does Left 4 Dead look? As a 2009 release, I am sure some starry features were added 
 but for today's standard you can't call its graphics awesome. The mapping was quite impressive 
 though. Indoor and outdoor environments are equally spaced (versus FEAR and Doom 3) and I got really 
 wowed to see several plane crash sites. I am not sure if Left 4 Dead looks any better than Call 
 of Duty 2. I'd say perhaps that's not the best comparison but Left 4 Dead looks like a game from 
 a few years ago.
  
  
  The sound is good. The same music is used during specific events and you will soon recognize what 
 is coming by hearing it. Dialogues are done quite naturally. I like that they put Zoey in the game 
 in addition to three bulls. Having her talking and advancing with the men have two effects on me. 
 One, Zoey feels like others' responsibility to protect as a young sweet girl. You feel really bad 
 if she gets killed. Two, Zoey's voice adds a higher key in the game's dialogues, therefore you 
 have some variation. A close example is Gears of War. You sometimes have radio support from Anya, 
 the female correspondent from HQ, and it feels nice hearing not only from your all-men-team. A 
 bad example is Crysis. Oh, I remember the female scientist in the Cave and on the Carrier but 99% 
 of the game has you interact only with men or machines. It won't break a game, pal. But it feels 
 lacking something.
  
  Left 4 Dead has four campaigns sub-divided into five chapters. Because the game is painfully easy, 
 you can complete all four of them in an afternoon. I found exploration not really fruitful in Left 
 4 Dead but still determined to venture around blasting zombies. Even so, it merely takes two days 
 of play to complete them all. The four chapters are very repetitive. You travel from save-house 
 to save house to re-supply. Mid-way through the campaign, you either activate a crane or an elevator 
 and then there comes a major attack of zombies. You call for an evacuation at the end and the biggest 
 onslaught arrives. Count it yourself but I expect two Tankers every time.
  
  You are only tested on your reflex. There is no point in hiding and the game has no cover system. 
 Load up and shoot; there's about it. Like you have expected, the head is the weak point of any 
 zombies. But zombies have really poor durability so taking time to aim for the head is just for 
 fun and not very rewarding. Run-n-gun with the shotgun will almost make you a god. In fact, all 
 guns in the game feel powerful but the shotgun is king. The assault rifle and the submachine guns 
 can tear apart a garrison of zombies with ease but their ammo reserve can deplete really soon. 
 The hunting rifle can zoom in and kill at long range and allows you to perform headshots for fun. 
 However, zombies are not that threatening at all so you will probably prefer hitting them at point 
 blank range. Mercy on the zombies that they at least put up a fight.
  
  The shotgun comes with two variants, namely the pump-action shotgun and the auto-shotgun. The latter 
 is definitely superior and it means a difference. The auto-shotgun can load two more shells, shoot 
 faster, and shoot during reload. Both shotguns are highly efficient weapons that can provide stopping 
 power that will help fight the Witch or the Tanker. I never run out of ammo on the shotguns too. 
 The pistols (dual wielded once you pick up a second) are very important to your survival, only 
 if you use the hunting rifle as the primary weapon. With the shotgun, pistols can be left behind 
 to collect dust!
  
  I do not blame Left 4 Dead for letting health packs return. In most modern shooters, Halo-style 
 health regeneration has taken over in order to conserve the momentum of action and also to contribute 
 to the cover system. That means health can be unlimitedly restored. But for such an easy game like 
 Left 4 Dead, what's the point? Meanwhile, some kind of health restoration is necessary in case 
 zombies overrun you by numbers or you get incapacitated by special zombies (such as the Tanker, 
 the Witch and the Hunter) . There is no another way round but health packs.
  
  Enemy patterns are predictable. The Tanker and Witch are the most formidable of them. I still haven't 
 been able to subdue the Witch without getting knocked out. She was a fast bxtch that could reach 
 me in no time after I sniped her. Besides these two, you have Hunters, Smokers, Boomers and normal 
 undead. There are no bosses, sadly.
  
  The AI is incredible. No only are they excellent marksmen who make every shot count with fantastic 
 accuracy, but also your AI teammates are very cooperative and generous. Some human players online 
 may have very poor aim or morality (taking friendly fire as fun) and keep health packs for themselves. 
 The AI do not exhibit these kinds of selfishness certainly. On the other hand, they can sometimes 
 make things too easy. I seldom succeed in killing the Hunters who leap around at great speed but 
 the AI teammates can track and hit them a bit unrealistically.
  
  Now let me explain why this is a half review  I did not join online matches. Left 4 Dead is an 
 extremely linear and mindless run-n-gun shooter and even 4 solo-campaigns are too much for me. 
 I would move on to the next game upon completing this review.
  
  According to my friend who played online, the best game mode has to be that "cat-n-rats" mode in 
 which players play as the Survivors and Zombies. That would be interesting although I clearly remembered 
 something alike in Star Wars Battlefront II (Wampas versus Rebels) .
  
  Nevertheless, I feel that multiplayer will psychologically make the game more fun than with AI 
 characters despite a decrease in effectiveness. Perhaps I have not tasted the best bit of Left 
 4 Dead on Multiplayer but I seriously doubt it would change my opinion a lot.
  
  Is the game horrible? I mean, can the game scare you? Nobody on Earth should feel scared playing 
 this game! Otherwise, he/ she either is a mental patient or is really retarded. About the concept 
 of "running dead" instead of "walking dead", I think zombies are essentially dead bodies so I would 
 still prefer the walking dead in Resident Evil a lot more.
  
  All in all, Left 4 Dead is a MINDLESS run-n-gun shooter for kids. Its production value is very 
 low. It plays okay as a shooter but can be too swallow for grown up people. Rent it.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nomad250
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2009 4:14 am PT
Review:  Nice graphics. Nice co-op experience. The best game of valve.
  The zombies are in millions but your survivors make it easy for you.
  But the game is very short. And 
 no save game feature.
  But its full of fun to kill a lot of zombies.
  Special Enemies:
  #Boomer
  #Smoker
  #Hunter
  
  Survivors:
  Zoey
  Louis
  Francis
  Bill
  
  Boomers 
 vomit at you, and at that time all you see is green.
  Hunters pin you with their long tongue.
  
  
 
  
 
  The assault rifle kills very well.
  The boomers are tough to defeat.
  Francis is the most cool survivor.
  
 
  
 
  
 
  It is based on the Source engine.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: philster_12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 31, 2009 9:33 pm PT
Review:  In the world of Left4Dead you will find yourself as a survivor and will try to reach a Rescue Location.
 
  
  The World of Left4Dead is Highly Dangerous and Contains Different Kids of Zombies that will challenge 
 you into your deepest fear of being infected by a Zombie Virus. In the story there are 4 characters 
 one of which will be you and there are 4 campaigns that are Highly Addictive and you will not easily 
 turn back. Each of the Campaigns have a different story and different locations of survival and 
 rescue, and when you play the game there are some Ghostly/Scary Characters that you will find tricky 
 to spot (but there is hint to find them) one of the Ghostly Characters are "The Witch" , the witch 
 is easy to be identified however the witch doesn't have a shadow so you won't easily find her. 
 The Witch is Highly Dangerous so i suggest you do not kill or go near her. The Witch's Description 
 is she is White and only has undergarments. Another character is Boomer, the only thing that you 
 will not like about the Boomer is he Vomits at you and will temporarily blind you with slime, another 
 character is "Hunter" , the hunter is somewhat dangerous so every time you move out of a house 
 or a place observe your surroundings first before going out and don't look out a window or he will 
 grab you with its tongue. another character is "Smoker" he is dangerous if you don't have any of 
 your teammates around or beside you. another thing Left4Dead has 4 characters, Bill, Francis, Zoey 
 and Louise, it doesn't matter what character you will choose, the only thing that matters is you 
 Survive! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricoxs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 31, 2009 2:02 am PT
Review:  When I firstly played it, I instantly got addicted. I was playing it every 10 minutes for about 
 3 hours, after several weeks I got bored of it, due to no updates. When the new update came out, 
 it made me come back. Game has still many bugs, and things like Closet Camping that destroys it, 
 but it's still good game.
  
  Versus is perfect if you want to enjoy having to fight human-controlled zombies, or if you want 
 to be one by yourself. It's like Co-Op, just Special Infected are more smarter than Computer-Controlled.
 
  
  Co-Op is better than Single-player, of course it depends what teammates are in your team. Co-Op 
 is made so you can enjoy doing campaings with your friends, co-operate with each other, enjoy the 
 game and other reasons that I haven't found out.
  
  Single-player is worst game mode yet I played in, it's really boring. You have to play with bunch 
 of robots who cannot get with you, get stuck somewhere, shoot your teammates etc. They're really 
 annonying, you almost always have to go first in some dark areas, robots will only follow you after 
 about 3 seconds, in those 3 seconds you can get pulled by smoker or get knocked out by rock flying 
 from Tank.
  
  So that would be short review about this game, enjoy it. This game is perfect for those who enjoy 
 combat, as combat here is the main thing. By the way, don't forget - Versus and CO-Op REQUIRE teamwork! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xyrhoshi
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2009 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Zombies, you've heard of them, seen them, all practically implemented into our favorite first person 
 shooters as mods. Well the ingenious game developers of valve decided to make one hell of a game 
 that bring zombie apocalypse to a whole different category, known as Left 4 Dead. I have literally 
 never seen a better made multiplayer zombie game. You can't really compare a game like this to 
 other zombie games like silent hill or resident evil because they're too different. What I mean 
 is, this game just isn't made for single-player use, it was solely based on multiplayer usage really.
 
  
  I could go on but, I believe you already got my point. Here comes the 5-point review.
  
  Graphics: Left 4 Dead uses the same engine that runs Counter-strike Source and Half-life 2/3, 
 with a little bit of tweaks of course. Darker atmosphere, grainy effects, VERY nice character models, 
 a variety of zombie models, and well-drawn maps pretty much gives the satisfaction any average 
 graphics-nut wants. I should also mention that the game runs VERY smoothly on my pc, and probably 
 will for any other above-average computer. So in a nutshell, L4D comes with nice, crisp graphics 
 that doesn't hog your computer up. I also forgot to mention that the animation is just AMAZING. 
 Zombie limbs flying everywhere, heads exploding like a blood-filled balloon, the way survivors 
 limp, its just blissful really. Therefore, Graphics gets a solid (10/10) for clean graphics, fantastic 
 animation, and solid framerates.
  
  Gameplay: This, my friends, is why Left 4 Dead is so dang addicting, attracting, innovating, and 
 well you get my point. The reason why I say this is because I have never, ever, really ever seen 
 a game like this before. The fact that teamwork is an absolute must in order to survive this apocalyptic 
 nightmare. That literally hundreds of zombies per map will continually rush after you to feast 
 off your corpse, or whatever it is they want. Add in the fact that you can also play as the boss 
 infected of Left 4 Dead, and take on the survivors as well? That is absolutely the best part of 
 L4D in my opinion, its always refreshing everytime to play against humans as infected, pouncing 
 their butts off or shooting 100 foot tongues for suffocation purposes, also vomiting on them to 
 attract the horde of zombies. Its just something I've always wanted to experience in a zombie game. 
 I also forgot to mention that the AI Director, a special coded program from valve, literally makes 
 every play different. By that I mean ammo spawns are different, zombie spawns different, it practically 
 makes it so that you never know what to expect on your way through the map. Thus, I give Gameplay 
 a (10/10)
  
  Sound: Wow, I love the soundtrack of this game, I really do. It REALLY adds in the flavor of L4D, 
 kinda like a topping for ice cream ya know. Certain bosses of infected hordes have their own theme 
 music, L4D carries its own unique soundtrack, sound effects are acceptable (Its not detailed enough 
 to be "fantastic" but it is satisfactory) , and I should finally mention that the voice acting is 
 SUPERB, really. I absolutely love it, each character has their own distinguished personality that 
 you just have to love. But anyways, I give Sound a (9/10)
  
  Fun-Factor: Well, I really hate giving 10s for fun, since not everyone thinks its fun to them, 
 but this is in my opinion, its my judgment, so I give the Fun Factor for this game a solid 10. 
 I play this game literally everyday, its just that addicting to me. Remember though, I am REFERRING 
 TO MULTIPLAYER. The singleplayer version I consider whack because, its boring without human connection. 
 You need to just have that guy playing with you so you can complain to him, whine to him, help 
 him, its something that is needed for a game like this. But yes, I already said this, I love this 
 game. So I give it a (10/10)
  
  So if you love playing with other people or your friends, and you love zombies both for killing 
 them and for using them, then do not hesitate, buy this game now. You will love it, really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plightoftheemo
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2009 9:42 am PT
Review:  If you watched 28 days, 28 weeks, Dawn of the dead (or Shaun of the Dead) , or any other zombie/infected 
 movie, then you will enjoy this game, a lot. Left 4 Dead was designed to put you in a horror film 
 very similar to the popular zombie movies that exist today. The fighting is excellent, and the 
 special zombies add that extra twist, making teamwork a priority. The graphics, although not the 
 most important part of any game, help set the horror film tone. This, as well as the characters 
 speech, zombie noises, and music create an overall aura of an intense zombie apocalypse. However, 
 Left 4 Dead had one more option which paved the road to greatness: Verses mode. Not only can you 
 survive against the zombie horde, you can also become the special zombies in an attempt to destroy 
 the survivors. Verses mode in combination with easy multi-player access, creates a simple yet exciting 
 game which never seems to get old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferret-gamer
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2009 4:00 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game not to long ago and i find i very good and addictive. But since my internet 
 is extremely slow i can't play the multiplayer, which is said to be the gem of the game. But the 
 single player is much better than most games i have played. The new AI Director allows the computer 
 controlled allies to act intelligently and coordinated. But my favorite thing about this game is 
 the zombies, they aren't lumbering idiotic things where it is like shooting punching bags that 
 slowly slide towards you. These guys will run fast and they can climb up stuff, not to mention 
 the hunters and smokers have the ability to jump around 30 feet. And a tank battle is just bliss 
 for me. The tanks are basically the incredible hulk; zombie style. And it is an epic battle to 
 take one down by yourself, but when you do you feel a nice warm fuzzy feeling 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dementedpancake
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2009 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Now VALVe know what you want in a zombie game... and they give it to you. Violence, tense music, 
 the most co-op play ever seen in video gaming and fast, fast infected.
  
  Now what is the story line?
  Well L4D skips over that so quickly you wonder where is got to.
 
  Basically, you are one of four survivors (Zoey, Bill, Louis, Francis) fighting to escape from 
 a zombie apocalypse, nothing more, nothing less. You find hints of how this happened included in 
 the text scrawled across the saferoom walls and in the detailed and brilliant cut scene that is 
 played through when you start up the game.
  
  Gameplay?
  You won't be disappointed with L4D if you have friends to play with, steam will help you with that 
 if you are a loner :D
  Without friends though the game loses a bit of its grandeur. The bots lack the ability to notice 
 fire, and seem to wander senselessly into it. They blunder into your fire like idiots... and can't 
 use grenades. The AI is up to playing easy or normal, but if you are a seasoned gamer advanced 
 is easy and expert is HARD. They fast infected never cease to amaze, they seem to pour off rooftops 
 like water and they fling themselves towards you hoping to bash your skull in.
  Mainly the game just churns out senseless killing, and fun as it is, you mainly hang out for the 
 moments where you are holding on for your life and the lives of your team.
  
  Graphics?
  VALVe have done a brilliant job updating the Source engine, my machine can max it out, and that 
 is what VALVe want. They have left the game be played on some of the worst computers, but yet play 
 awesome on the higher end machines. The particle effects are sickeningly awesome, and the film 
 effects merge your brain with the zombie outbreak.
  
  Versus?
  It needs more tweaking but it is fun anyway... worth a shot, I like campaign mode more.
  
  
 Downfall?
  If VALVe don't fix some matchmaking problems and send out the L4D SDK soon this game might just 
 fall out of its grip... but we know VALVe, only its console games have failed :D
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: WOWgamer778
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Valve has always brought great multiplayer games to us whether it be in the form of CSS or TF2. 
 
  
  I bought this game the day it came out just from the hype, and I can say that this definitely lived 
 up to it. The multiplayer is just incredibly fun and always challenging. There really is no point 
 at all complaining that the solo play is bad because this was never meant to be played alone.
 
  
  The system requirements aren't very intensive and my computer plays the game at 60 fps constantly 
 unless I use console commands to make 300 zombies spawn.
  
  For people who think that there isn't enough content, this game is going to have constant updates 
 and DLC so there really is no point in complaining. 
  
  The versus is very innovative and playing as the zombies is just kickass. The game relies heavily 
 on cooperation and definitely requires you to have a mic otherwise you really won't get the full 
 effect of multiplayer. 
  
  The randomness of the zombie generation and director allow each level to seem fresh every time 
 you play them. It also adds a bit of suspense and dread because you won't know exactly where or 
 when a Tank infected will spawn.
  
  The music in L4D really isn't music at all. It is basically sounds for telling you about incoming 
 hordes, witches, and other boss infected. The fact that you basically have to keep the music on, 
 is kind of a downfall, but it does at least serve a purpose. 
  
  In the end, this game has amazing design, gameplay, and the sound effects are rather creepy when 
 you are playing in the dead of night. I highly recommend this to anyone who is interested in PC 
 gaming or is a PC gamer. I don't know about the 360 version because I honestly hate online console 
 gaming, but if that is the only way you can play this game get it anyway!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blood_Diamond
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2009 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Hiya yall,
  
  I bought this game through an impulse, and it has been the best game i've played for along time, 
 even though it is always they same map, but my god director is so powerful you will never ever 
 feel completely safe. On instance was that i stayed back a little bit to find some ammo or health, 
 and i think that the director brought a special zombie too kick my ass and he did because i fell 
 behind it punished me, since then i have never fall that far back again. 
  
  Even my mid spec pc this game still looks hot, playing with all the characters been controlled 
 by players you really do feel at times you are fight for your life and when you are not being chased 
 down by a huge horde of zombies you are checking each corner listening for the tell tail signs 
 of the tank or witch. Should you reach the end the heat really goes up, because you have hold down 
 the fort and wait for rescue and once that rescure turns up oh momma you better run like hell should 
 you wait 1 second too long and you will be left behind.
  
  I'm not proud of it, i let 3 of my team mates die so i could complete the level and get the achievement 
 to complete a level from start too finish, not telling which level because i don't want to spoil 
 your fun or the zombies fun hehe.
  
  I recommend to anyone who own steam account and *smacks the desk* if not WHY NOT!
  
  Thanks 
 for reading
  
  Blood Diamond 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JB_82
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 22, 2009 1:13 pm PT
Review:  With the foundations already laid by Valve's impervious Half Life 2 & Team Fortress format, L4D 
 piggy-backs its predecesors to create the first truly memorable online survival horror experience. 
 The VS. mode is where the longevity lies as two teams of four (the infected & the survivors) spa 
 for supremacy in what is the best cat & mouse fare ever replicated onto a video-game. 
  
  However, there are some drawbacks to what at its core, is a fantastic game. Close inspection of 
 the game's visuals does it no favors with very generic looking set-pieces, but you'll unlikely 
 ever have time to stop & take in polygonal beauty such is the fast pace of the game. 
  
  Furthermore, as it stands, as a retail product, its lacking in content, which prevents it fulfilling 
 its true potential, for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crimson525
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2009 9:37 pm PT
Review:  If you're gonna get l4d, get it for the pc. L4d cannot be nearly as intense on the 360 as compared 
 to pc. Honest to God, if u love shooters, you will dig this game.
  
  One play through, i was regretful that i bought it. It was fun, but not to the expected level. 
 It was cooperative, but not to the point i desired.
  
  The second play became better, the third, more enticing, the fourth, thankful. 
  
  Left 4 Dead 
 must be the best shooter that came out this year. It seems as though Valve has learned all the 
 tricks to developing great shooters after CS, Half Life 2, and TF 2, but we as gamers were sorely 
 mistaken. Left 4 Dead is more fun than any shooters iv'e ever played.
  
  As a survivor or a hunter you will be shoved into an arena of battle that requires absolute teamwork. 
 If you are idiotic enough to stray from the pack, you will get eaten by the zombies. If you as 
 a zombie are stupid enough to attack as a single unit, you will be shot. Teamwork is absolutely 
 necessary. 
  
  As a survior you must choose to speed up the pace or stay back and help your mates. You must choose 
 to help or to let die. If you help, you might be ambushed by the super zombies, if you leave your 
 mate, you risk another helping gun. The freedom is completely yours.
  
  As a zombie you will choose the path in which you crawl, the way in which you carry out your ambush, 
 and when a survivor is caught, oh how good that feels! Incapacitating a player is a burst of andrenaline 
 that makes you jump out of your chair and act like a lunatic. 
  
  The sound of the guns is cs quality. The graphics is half life level, and the gameplay is beyond 
 anything you've ever imagine. 
  
  Buy this game, have fun, and remember, "there's no I in team". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prather32
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2009 6:58 am PT
Review:  This game is by far the best new game to come out in some time for the FPS genre. I picked out 
 the latest CoD game just before I gave this game a chance and while I do in fact like the CoD game, 
 this game has taken all my available time. WWII FPSs are about done, and there are loads of generic 
 modern FPSs as well. This one adds such a great twist that it cannot be ignored. 
  
  Playing with others -- whether in Campaign (CO-OP) or Versus style of play -- takes this game to 
 the next level of fun. With a group of you, you either need to live (thus Survivor) or you need 
 to kill the survivors (yes, the Zombies) . Working together is a must because with only 4 players 
 per team which ever side uses the most teamwork and communication will most always win. 
  
  It's a great game with fun maps (though more are needed) , stresses teamwork, and makes you want 
 to play 'just one map' time and time again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: progolfer25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 11:56 am PT
Review:  I went back and forth so many times about whether i should get this game. In the end i got it and 
 dont regret getting it at all. The game has tons of replay value. I have played each map hundreds 
 of times with each time being a little more different than the last. Also with versus mode i have 
 never had any games come close to one another. The game is fun and just amazing as you fight down 
 hordes on zombies, kill tanks hunters and more. Being the zombies adds only as a bonus and you 
 plan and stategize with teammates about how to attack your enemy. The controls are nice and not 
 too complicated. The areas are fun to move around and the lighting adds to the story. You feel 
 like you are in a movie and the game only gets better as you go along. There are multiple difficulties 
 so you can go from really easy, to deadly hard. Its also fun to work and try to get all the achievements. 
 The game is fun, and will remain a top game as long as i live. Best with friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theslim88
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2009 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Saw a few clips of L4D and I got to tell ya, loved it from the first sight of it. So after a few 
 days it has been released I bought it and gave it a go in singel player for a few minutes to learn 
 the controls and stuff like that.
  
  On to the game. The graphics are beautiful, the surroundings is perfect for the theme and its so 
 easy to get in the game and you'll start killing zombies in no time. Every map has the perfect 
 length of time to play through, although they are kind of short but they sure are interesting and 
 unique every time you play it. I don't really know much else to say except that this is a great 
 and easy game (easy as in understanding it) and the good part is that it has four difficulties 
 and for me, the advanced difficulty fits me the best. I don't know if this would help but I wanted 
 to say what I had to say. Good luck guys! :)
  
  And oh, multiplayer is the way to go, its 100% more fun with other players rather then bots as 
 allies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellbishop
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2009 1:18 am PT
Review:  Graphics- Extremely gory unsettling graphics which disturb but never seem over the top childish. 
 A balanced realism enhancing the drone of terror in the air. I was amazed to say the least to be 
 acttacked by great masses of undead with no drop in my framerates. Finally a zombie game which 
 captures the feeling of being swarmed by a sea of rotting flesh in unnatural motion just like the 
 horror movie classics of Romero and Fulci. Your fellow partners which fight by your side look great 
 with their physical appearance going perfectly with the parts they play in this journey into a 
 world of insanity. Animations are excellent with some nice touches like viewing your character 
 while he heals himself.
  
  Sound- Unnerving fear triggering audio effects and music snatches you from the real world into 
 a emotion stomping mind reeling situation which will have your heart doing loop de loops of adrenaline. 
 The eerie cry of children will haunt you as you hope to end their suffering while the different 
 agonizing vocals for zombies will make your gun hand a bit unsteady as you wonder what is behind 
 a door or in that basement your about to investigate. Weapon sfx are alive with power and simulate 
 properly the lethal ghoul killing nature of each. Environmental sound effects also can bring down 
 a raging ravenous throng of man eating zombies upon you and your party if you set off things like 
 car alarms.
  
  Gameplay- Is fun while feeling just right in the balance department without going overboard with 
 tedious realism. Its great to be badly wounded by a zombie and incapcitated depending on your partners 
 to heal you. Talking about ai partners they are incredibly well done never causing problems in 
 combat and are experts at getting you out of tight spots when your surrounded by undead or in the 
 death grip of a stinking abomination pulsing with collapsing unlife.
  
  End sum- You cant go wrong with this game if your into zombies and heavy impact weapons in a holocaust 
 city setting. Graphics deliever with no impact on framerates and gameplay is all there and then 
 some. Worth the money to buy and worth the time to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scientist8
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2009 10:58 am PT
Review:  Valve has once again mastered the art of multiplayer gaming when they released Left 4 dead for 
 Xbox 360 and pc. Left 4 dead takes cooperative gameplay and combines it with straight fun good 
 'ol fashioned zombie blasting. You and your friends play any of the 4 survivors and must survive 
 the 4 campaigns released thus far by valve. You and your friends also have the option to play against 
 others in versus mode where 4 can play as the infected boss zombies or play the survivors. The 
 genius behind Left 4 dead is the AI director that essentially changes where zombies and infected 
 boss zombies might spawn and how many so each time you play through one of the campaigns (and you'll 
 be playing them a lot) each time is a different experience from the last time you played it. Though 
 there are only 4 campaigns valve has already promised to keep the campaigns coming, which is a 
 good promise since it is a great game to keep playing again and again with friends. Playing with 
 friends is how you can really get the most enjoyment out of it, if you play single player you can 
 still enjoy the game but you just wont have that great interaction with friends playing. The AI 
 for the survivors is really on par, you never really have to baby sit any of them, they can hold 
 their own against zombies and follow you closely. Teamwork is the name of the game and is really 
 the only way you can win, if you think you're just the best player in the world and go off running 
 on your own, there's a good chance that a hunter will pounce you and then you'll get torn apart 
 while your teammates laugh at you for being so stupid to go running off by yourself like that. 
 Another way valve combated those "hero" players that run off on their own is when you get hit by 
 a zombie it slows you down so if you get a group of zombies hitting you from behind you'll pretty 
 much be stopped in your tracks and forced to stop and fend for yourself, this is where it is a 
 good idea to have friends watching your back. Left 4 dead is a great multiplayer game and should 
 be owned by anyone with an Xbox 360 or PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: just_for_kicks
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 6:34 am PT
Review:  Zombie fans around the globe will be pleased to know that Left 4 Dead pulls off the feeling of 
 the zombie apocalypse perfectly. You are thrown into an American city where the infection has broken 
 out and your one of 4 survivors trying to escape. Playing as Zoey, Francis, Louis or Bill you blast 
 through hordes of zombies and special infected (which have special ability's) to make it to a rescue 
 point or vehicle. The situations force you to use co-operation with your team mates and that is 
 what sets this game apart from the others.
  
  The single player is strictly offline and you play with bots as teammates. You have 4 campaigns 
 to blast your way through and while it will entertain you a few times, it is the online multiplayer 
 that will keep you coming back for more. Moving onto the online it has the same levels but you 
 either play 'Campaign' where you a 3 other people go through killing all the zombies or 'Versus' 
 where 4 people go through as the survivors and four people get to be the special infected trying 
 to stop them.
  
  It's the online modes that make Left 4 Dead fun to play over and over again. Experiencing the levels 
 on campaign with others (either friends or randoms) is fun and really brings emotion into the game. 
 Hearing a worried team mate's voice over their microphone when they are being attacked is something 
 you don't forget quickly. Stepping up the difficulty is also very challenging, its forces you to 
 think tactics and requires full team work. One shot of friendly fire in expert and your team mate 
 is down, so it pays to be careful.
  
  Versus has to be my favourite mode and the highlight of the game. This is what has made co-op come 
 back into the spotlight. It is vital for the survivors to stick together as a team, one goes wandering 
 off and more often then not they end up dead. The special infected must also worked together to 
 kill all the survivors, one infected by themselves makes little difference but if the whole team 
 attacks together it can sometimes decide between a win or a loss for the team. The special infected 
 consist of: Hunter  A hooded zombie capable of pouncing and ripping up survivors, Boomer: A fat 
 and bloated zombie that vomits on the survivors so they are attacked by a horde of normal infected, 
 Smoker: A disfigured zombie that uses its long tongue to constrict survivors and Tank: An extremely 
 musclier zombie that use brute strength to kill survivors. Also a computer controlled special infected 
 called a Witch can placed somewhere in the level, her ability is once disturbed to knock down a 
 survivor and start scratching at them. Being the special infected is a lot of fun, being able to 
 play on the flip side of the zombie apocalypse is something that few developers have thought of 
 before and it really adds a different dimension to the game. The formula of campaign and versus 
 makes team work a lot of fun, co-ordinating with your team over microphones or just by text makes 
 the victories really satisfying and the losses not so bad because you still have fun working together.
 
  
  Each play through is different in a way, Valve created an AI system which they call 'The Director'. 
 The Director assesses how the survivors are doing, if they are getting it too easy it spawns more 
 zombies and make it quite intense with massive hordes, if they are having a hard time it scales 
 the spawns back a bit so then you are not overwhelmed. This makes for different experiences in 
 each match and adds to how much you can replay the game.
  
  The graphics are pretty decent, only above Counter Strike: Source a bit but it still holds up well. 
 All the textures look good and I have not seen any glitches in them as of yet. All the colours 
 have been dulled down and slightly washed which brings the effect of the apocalypse quite well. 
 When you are in safe houses there are messages on the walls, some grave messages or witty comebacks 
 and others directions. This gives the feeling of you being a lonely of group of survivors which 
 contributes to the great atmosphere. The game has been given a sort of grainy look or more like 
 slight static so that you feel like you're a part of the survival horror movies. The look makes 
 the game feel just like that, also the loading screens have the level details in pictures on movie 
 posters, furthering the feel of you being in a horror flick. All the models of characters and weapons 
 have also been done quite well, everything looks pretty much like it should in real life (except 
 of course the zombies) . The weapons feel pretty good to use although maybe a little more variety 
 would make it better. You have 2 shotguns (one pump action and one auto) , an Uzi, an assault rifle, 
 a hunting rifle and pistols which have infinite ammo so you never go without. Also you can melee 
 zombies if you have too many in your face. 
  
  The server system is one of the only bad points about this game. Instead of having the usual list 
 of servers like in Counter Strike, you search for a lobby to be placed in. Once in a lobby and 
 you have enough people to start a game you press start game and it searches for a dedicated server. 
 This has proven a little ineffective; some people just can't connect to the servers or they find 
 ones from other countries which creates too much lag. You can use the console though to bring up 
 a list of servers for people who struggle to connect. There is an option to be placed in a game 
 that's already started as well, but sometimes it keeps trying to connect you to servers that are 
 full. Also if you're disconnected from your game at any point, there is not an option to try and 
 get back into that server unless you are playing with one of your contacts on steam. Although usually 
 ok the server system could have been worked on more.
  
  Achievements have also been included to keep you busy in case the life of the apocalypse isn't 
 holding you. Ones such as burning witches, using no health packs to heal during a campaign and 
 killing 53,595 zombies have been set so you can master them. This keeps things interesting and 
 makes you strive to complete them for the satisfaction (they don't unlock anything for you) .
  
  Left 4 Dead is a great game because of its co-op but also because it's just plain fun. It may 
 not have a strong story line but it doesn't need one, the multiplayer provides you with good times 
 and great matches. The intense matches and the way it pulls you into the apocalypse make it a great 
 multiplayer experience for all fans of the genre. It will also be interesting to see what the modding 
 community can do with this game. The best co-op I have played.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cabose1213
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2009 10:25 pm PT
Review:  I agree the source engine in getting a little rustic, but do graphics really matter that much? 
 Sid Meyers Alpha Centauri is the best TBS ever made and it has horrible graphics. If i had to pick 
 between $50 spent on something pretty or something fun I pick fun. The campaigns can get a little 
 old but there'll be more to come (Valve already announced a new coop campaign and versus compatibility 
 for the Dead Air and Death Toll campaigns) Besides versus mode never gets old, being the infected 
 it freaking amazing (the hunter is my favorite, even more than the tank) . I've played it quite 
 extensively (about 70 hrs) and still find myself having to come back for more. Valve did it again. 
 The only drawbacks are a hefty learning curve and the occasional poor teammates but that just makes 
 the game a bit more challenging, which is a good thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lpjazzman220
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 25, 2009 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: This game is pretty much Orange Box graphics. The Source engine, even with its updates, 
 is getting old. It is still pretty, but I can max it on my computer, and I still think that Crysis 
 on medium looks much better. The graphics work very well for the game type. The shadows are okay, 
 nothing spectacular. The textures are also okay, better than the shadows, but still not amazing. 
 The effects are pretty. The film grain is kind of cool if you want to change things up a bit, but 
 I think that Valve just put that in there to help mask the aging graphics. 7/10
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is unique, but it is not innovative in anyway. The game is built specifically 
 for multiplayer, but it also has a singleplayer mode where you literally play a bot-match. The 
 friendly AI sucks. It seems like Valve threw it in as an after thought. It isn't as bad at Counter 
 Strike: Source, but it is pretty bad. 5/10
  
  Multiplayer: The game is built for multiplayer. The only problem is that you have to rely on other 
 people to have fun. On many occasions I have joined games with random people, and I have hated 
 the experience. I play on Very Hard difficulty because I wish to weed out the 12 year old kids 
 who think they are gods. This works somewhat, but I still tend to run into those people who think 
 that they are better than they really are, and you also have Rambo, and the people who are too 
 cautious. This has really killed the experience for me because I constantly have to save people 
 who are either way too far forward or straggling too much when the the horde ambushes from behind 
 you. The best way to play this game is to find 3 other friends who are about your skill level and 
 play with them always. I hate this because I don't have very many PC gaming friends. 3/10
  
  Sound: The is perfect. That is about that I can say about it. It makes you feel like you are 
 there. It is perfect. 10/10
  
  Overall: I hate relying on complete strangers to have fun. COD4 was fun with random people, but 
 this game is not. It is alot of fun with your friends, but that is a rare occasion at college when 
 nearly everyone is a console gamer. I don't recommend this game unless you have 3 other friends 
 who are going to buy it with you. I had fun for awhile, but then the "look at that zombie's head 
 explode" wore off. 5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blasterchief
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 5:24 am PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is awesome. Don't even read this, just go and buy it. But if you're REALLY intent on 
 knowing..
  
  Gameplay is repetitive but never loses the thrill. Graphics, maps, sound all solid, characters 
 loveable and wonderful.
  
  Absolutely no storyline, just a co-op game to play with your friends, and good ol' solid fun. Remember 
 that thing we used to buy games for? Fun?
  
  Well yeah, it's back. The maps get a little repetitive, but Valve will come up with new DLC soon 
 enough. In the meanwhile, play Versus! Never gets old.
  
  Swap between survivor and infected, and beat the other team's score. Just good old fun contests. 
 Playing as the infected is bloody awesome. You just have to try it. 
  
  Just a note: the difficulty setting is not REALLY just right, I just chose that option. The difficulty 
 varies greatly to suit you.
  
  Now go buy this game, find three other mates or just join some randoms, and play like there's no 
 tomorrow.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Furnish
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2009 1:08 am PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is modern times' one of the most innovative game where a countless army of zombie face 
 defeat against four typical humans. The intensive shooting with little place to survive in a big 
 town will rather sound odd, but what else is there when zombies try to rule over earth. 
  Left 4 Dead is a first-person shooter but makes use of the third-person perspective during certain 
 events or player actions. In Campaign and Single-player mode, the player takes control of one of 
 the Survivors; if four human players are not available, then the remaining Survivors are AI-controlled 
 bots. They play through the levels fighting off the "Infected"-living humans who have been infected 
 with a mutated rabies virus to which the Survivors are immune 
  The game is focused on cooperation and team play; colored outlines of teammates are visible through 
 walls to help players stick together and coordinate their movement. If a Survivor falls off a ledge, 
 then they may automatically hang onto it and can only be helped up by another Survivor. If a Survivor's 
 health is depleted, then they become incapacitated and can only be revived by another Survivor, 
 at which point they continue playing with a low amount of health that decreases over time. If a 
 Survivor has been incapacitated and revived twice without tending to their wounds, then they will 
 experience distorted black-and-white vision, and the next incapacitation will kill the player. 
 If a Survivor incurs enough damage while incapacitated, or is not eventually helped up by teammates, 
 then the incapacitated player will die. If a Survivor is killed, then they will respawn in a closet 
 or other enclosed space after a period of time (except during key points in the scenario or in 
 Versus mode) , but must be freed by another Survivor to rejoin the team. Otherwise, the player must 
 wait until the next level Survivors can share first-aid kits and pain pills and help each other 
 heal. Left 4 Dead has friendly fire that cannot be disabled, increasing the need for caution around 
 other Survivors. On the Easy difficulty level, friendly fire does not harm teammates but still 
 registers as having occurred.
  The Survivors communicate by voice commands that are accessed by quick menus, and some sound off 
 automatically when performing actions such as reloading or spotting Infected. Over 1000 unique 
 lines have been recorded for each Survivor. Additional communication of player actions is conveyed 
 through character lights. Also, weapon-mounted flashlights and muzzle flashes help the players 
 in determining whether their companions are shooting, performing melee attacks, reloading or moving. 
 Due to control issues and the likelihood of players using a LIVE headset, the Xbox 360 version 
 of Left 4 Dead omits the quick phrases feature. 
  The game is experienced through four campaigns that take place in various urban and rural locales. 
 Multiple visual in-game hints, including license plates, park signs, and markings on airport equipment, 
 imply that these locations are in Pennsylvania. Each campaign is divided into several chapters 
 marked by safe rooms, which are checkpoints where players can heal, re-arm, and revive players 
 who were killed. Specifically, the four campaigns are: "No Mercy", an urban setting; "Death Toll", 
 a small-town and countryside setting; "Dead Air", an airport setting; and "Blood Harvest", a woodland 
 and farm setting. The levels are essentially linear, with distinct beginnings and ends, but there 
 are a number of alternate routes to follow with more supplies, helping to create a sense of non-linearity. 
 In the final chapter of each campaign, the players must defend a position from an onslaught of 
 Infected until rescue arrives. Each campaign typically lasts between 45 and 75 minutes depending 
 on the difficulty level. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoblinOnFire
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 8:17 am PT
Review:  The premise is simple: 4 people from, very, different walks of life, team up to face the onslaught 
 of the zombie horde. Oh, and they're probably immune to whatever caused the epidemic... 
  
  So many things could go wrong with this concept. So few things actually did. 
  
  The characters: 
 Zoey ( the peppy chick) , Louis (the everyday man) , Francis (Biker Bulldozer) , Bill (Ex-military) 
 bunch together real nicely, and they are believable and realistic looking. (Moving eyes, people! 
 It's the new thing!)
  
  The enemies: Common infected (zombies who run, scream and claw at your face) . Special infected, 
 Smoker, Hunter, Boomer and Tank. 
  
  The point of the game is simple: you shoot the commons, you run away from the rest. Ok, that's 
 oversimplifying . The specials are there to be more bumps than roadblocks. They are there too unsettle 
 your pace. The common's are the fodder. 
  To survive, the best (and, in some parts, the only) strategy is to stick together. Communication 
 is your most valuable weapon. The lonesome cowboy, AKA John Wayne AKA Rambo, will soon find himself 
 outnumbered and at the end of his rope. 
  
  Tons of fun, and thanks to the mod community, this game will live for a long, long time! 
  
 
  The only shortcoming: The game could have been longer, and the different episodes don't connect. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icepop4who
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2009 10:07 pm PT
Review:  The latest effort from the studio that brought you Counter-Strike, is Left 4 Dead, a multiplayer 
 co-op zombie shooter. Left 4 Dead utilizes the lastest version of the Source engine that made Half-Life 
 2 famous. Not only is L4D a great zombie experience, it is one of the best co-op games.
  
  Co-op games have always been desired in the shooter genre, but none really captures true teamwork. 
 L4D is the beacon for the gamers wishing for a co-op game that really stresses teamwork; without 
 teamwork, you can accomplish nothing. As one of the four survivors of a zombie apocalypse, you 
 and your buddies must fight through hordes of infected to be evacuated. However, you can't run 
 off on your own, as there are more to the usual brain-less zombies that stand in your way. 
  
  These so-called "boss infected" are one of the 5 special zombies that you'll encounter, and 
 each of them will leave any loner left to the zombies. If you lose all your health, you will be 
 incapacitated with 300 temporary health timer for your teammates to rescue you. You can only be 
 rescued twice before you die unless you use a health kit, and even that takes a whole 5 seconds 
 which is a luxury when there are those bosses around. There is the long-ranged, grappling Smoker 
 and the pouncing Hunter, who will leave you helpless against their attacks. There is also the bloated 
 boomer, who can blind you and attract a horde with its vomit. Then there's the Tank, who is basically 
 Hulk on steroids. Finally, the witch is arguable the most powerful infected, who will kill you 
 with one hit. This game really teaches you cooperation the hard way, because if you go "Rambo" 
 once, you will never do it again as a Hunter scratches out your insides.
  
  Gameplay is simpler than most shooters today as Valve intended this game to be accessible to seasoned 
 vets of gaming and also newcomers. My girlfriend, who has only played Maplestory, easily picked 
 up this game and started blasting zombies. The control scheme is as easy as shoot, move and shove. 
 There is no iron-sight or zoomed mode, except the Hunting Rifle, which you won't get until later 
 into the game. You are only allowed to carry one primary weapon, a single or dual pistols, a molotov 
 or pipe bomb, a med kit, and pills. You start off with either a pump action shotgun or a submachine 
 gun, a pistol, and a health kit. You'll find three new weapons along the way: an automatic shotgun, 
 a hunting rifle, and an assault rifle, so the variety is limited. You may also find a molotov, 
 which is great for setting Tanks on fire, or a pipe bomb that attracts zombies as it is thrown. 
 To get you up and running, you can also find additional health kits and pills, which unlike Fallout 
 3, you can't get addicted to them.
  
  While the arsenal is rather anemic, Valve supplements with an AI dubbed "The Director" which randomizes 
 horde and supplies. You will never run into the same situation twice as the spawning of weapons 
 and horde will vary from map to map and from player to player. The Director purposely paces the 
 game to tailor to your playing skill and speed. If you're doing too well, you'll find less supplies 
 and more zombies, and vice versa. While in theory, this AI will spawn an endless combination of 
 levels, the weak 20-map, 4-mission campaign lasts about 5 hours on a single run-thru on Normal 
 difficulty. Cranking up the difficulty will makes the game last longer only because you die way 
 more often.
  
  The graphical presentation is pleasing and surprisingly good considering the rather technically 
 deficiencies of Source when compared to modern shooters. The bottom line is: the system is not 
 fancy, but it works. The zombie die satisfyingly thanks to no small part to the physics engine. 
 The characters are also rendered in great detail, especially when portrayin emotions and injury. 
 The character dialogues is top notch and the chemistry between the four is strong. The overall 
 production value of the game rivals Hollywood hits.
  
  This game is all about multiplayer, especially since there is no real single player campaign. There 
 is no cohesive and continous story, and each mission played without human buddies is filled by 
 bots. While the bots are competent at shooting zombies, they are still bots at the end of the day. 
 They don't use explosives or follow a plan, so this game is best played with friends. The campaign 
 mode can be played with 3 other friends but the multiplayer really shines with Versus mode, where 
 you can be the boss infected. You can play a randomly assigned Hunter, Smoker, Boomer, or Tank. 
 The contols are equally intuitive to the survivors and it is undeniably fun to beat down the survivors.
 
  
  Left 4 Dead is not only fun but also awe-inpiring. The game is wonderfully made, despite a few 
 minor bugs. (You can break doors not meant to be broken, melee at mind numbing speeds, fly across 
 the map, etc.) This the defining title in the zombie genre along with Resident Evil series, and 
 definitely the best co-op game I've ever played. If you like shooting zombies, this game cannot 
 be missed. But for everyone else, the MSRP of $49 is too high (or $59 for XBOX 360) for a game 
 that offers too little content considering its potential, although Valve did promise additional 
 content. At any price, this is probably one of the best shooters of this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: om3ga_storm
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2009 9:09 am PT
Review:  Before I got this game I was a bit wary of the price being quite expensive for what I thought would 
 be just a multiplayer game like Team Fortress 2. It turns out that what I paid was definitely worth 
 it.
  
  Now, this game is definitely not to be played by yourself, unless you want to get to know the maps 
 and try things out. It just isn't fun with emotion-less AI's. 
  
  I say the best experience comes from playing with your friends. Actual friends. This is one of 
 the best co-op games I've ever played, but then again there aren't that many co-op games out there. 
 Still, the way the game forces you to work together is quite ingenius. The game will throw at you 
 various obstacles that 95% of the time require some form of working together as a team.
  
  The special zombies are one such obstacles. An attack from of these guys and you are pretty much 
 screwed if you were by yourself, as they put you in helpless situations. They also make sure any 
 invidual survivor does not stay behind by him/herself or go too far ahead. I've had many scenarios 
 where one person was lagging behind then got attacked by a hunter/smoker and was incapaciated. 
 Unfortunately we could not get back up to where they were to help him/her so we had to move on 
 without him/her.
  
  You want to plan out defenses and attacks as well, but the catch is that zombies come from random 
 places each game, so there's a lot of replay value. However, the path to the end of the game is 
 pretty linear. 
  
  I"ve played a bit of Versus mode, which is fun because you get to play as the special zombies. 
 This also relies on team work, because even the special zombies are pretty weak and the respawn 
 times are quite long (20 secs!) . 
  
  OVerall, this game is a blast to play, and I"m sure i'll be playing more of this. Just remember 
 that this is best played with friends, but if you do not have any (haha) then playing online is 
 also not bad. It's just that there are some players out there who are annoyingly frustrating to 
 play with. And since they are not your friends you have no "bonding". They feel like mercenaries 
 who you ahve to deal with rather than actual teammates who you work together with. Finally, get 
 a mic, because it's WAY more fun, and you get your message across fast! I tend to find lobbies 
 with at least 1 player that has a mic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalcross
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 11:59 pm PT
Review:  I know in my youth whenever I watched zombie horror movies I thought to myself 'I think I could 
 handle myself if this happened to me.' It might only be a game, but Left 4 Dead is what you could 
 essentially call a Zombie Apocalypse Simulator and one fantastic one at that.
  
  Left 4 Dead is the newest venture from Valve Software which puts players in the role of a survivor 
 trying to escape from hordes of Zombies. The game allows you to play as one of four characters. 
 You have Francis, the tough biker dude, Bill, the elderly army vet, Louis, the regular guy and 
 Zoey, the twenty-something girl. There is no real back story other than the fact that you four 
 are the only survivors trying to find help and stay alive.
  
  The game contains four scenarios, which are played out as 'movies'. Each of the four scenarios 
 takes places in different areas including an airport and an abandoned train yard. The objective 
 is simple, move from point to point and not die. There are five chapters to each movie and they 
 end when you reach either the safe house, or in the case of the final chapter, the rescue vehicle. 
 Along the way, you'll encounter wave upon wave of various infected people and to spice up the action, 
 other 'special' zombies each with their own special abilities. Their abilities include one called 
 the Smoker who upon killing him turns the air into smoke causing your characters to cough for a 
 few moments. Another character, a witch, is harmless unless you disturb her. If you do, she'll 
 charge at you, knocking you down and will continue to pounce until you manage to kill her. These 
 enemies occur at various burst, but when they strike, they manage to do the most damage to your 
 characters.
  
  Left 4 Dead features a cool feature called AI Director. Each of the four scenarios is approximately 
 45-105 minutes long in length depending on how well you play. What the AI Director does is ensure 
 that each time you play through a scenario, your experience is different. The first time you play 
 through a chapter, you might remember some pipe-bombs located in a room, but the next time you 
 play, they won't be there. You think you're approaching a section with a Hunter zombie, but when 
 you get there, the area is empty. If computer thinks you're having an easy time, it will throw 
 more zombies at you, and reversely, if you're dying too much, it will ease the difficulty for you. 
 The AI Director ensures that each time you play through the game the experience is different. You 
 never know what to expect and because of this, you'll always be at the edge of your seat.
  
  If you decide to play Left 4 Dead on your own, thankfully your partners are very good at what 
 they do and it's very rare that you will have to save them. In fact, you're more inclined to run 
 ahead of them and have them save you then the other way around. But Left 4 Dead is really enjoyed 
 playing with others. While you can play this game with friends, to get the true experience, you 
 need to play this with strangers.
  
  The four characters in this game are not friends, but four random people who just happen to have 
 the same goal, find safety. If you play with friends, chances are you will play smart and efficiently, 
 but that really limits what you can do. If you're playing with strangers, you don't know what to 
 expect. Like in real life, you might have the smart person who will grab gas tanks and place them 
 before a horde attacks to burn them, or you might have a scared person who runs off ahead of everyone 
 then pleads for help when they're getting consumed by the infected. While you should be working 
 together, it's never perfect and this randomness makes every experience something special.
  
  For a game located in isolated and deserted locations, Valve did a great job in make the environments 
 looking true to form. All four of the 'movies' are significantly different but each one has plenty 
 of detail in them. You'll walk or run through apartments, warehouses, train tracks, backwoods, 
 airport terminals, hospitals and other locations and each one doesn't just look like the other 
 with a different coat of paint. The generic infected look good even though there seems to be only 
 about 5-8 different models (two or three female and three or four male skins) and there are also 
 only 5 special zombie characters. It's not a bad thing, but sometimes you do wish there was a bit 
 more variety in that department. You will encounter some graphical glitches here and there as well. 
 These only seem to occur when you stand really close to a character, as textures will disappear, 
 but it doesn't hurt the game.
  
  The sounds from the ambiance to the voice-work are actually fairly well done. The game sounds from 
 top to bottom like a horror movie with great sounds occurring at key moments. When you're nearing 
 a witch, you'll hear her moan and groan and at the same time an eerie score will accompany it until 
 you either kill her or move far enough away. There is some limit to the dialog between the playable 
 characters, but when playing with friends or with strangers, you won't be listening to the 'reloading' 
 'come here and let me heal you' that Francis and the gang will state, so it is a non-issue.
  
  If you only play this game alone, you're only experiencing a fraction of what this game is 
 intended to do. This game needs to be enjoyed with others and with various people. When you play 
 online, there is also the ability to play as the special infected characters against four real 
 people as the survivors. This mode is fun albeit short at times since infected characters do die 
 relatively quickly. If you manage to use your character effectively, you can do a lot of damage 
 and thanks to the AI Director, even this experience will be different each time you play.
  
  When I first started reading about Left 4 Dead, I thought this was just a generic shooter in 
 a zombie environment. I guess you can blame the lack of fun I had trying out Resident Evil Outbreak 
 and its attempt at this type of game. Valve proved that it can pull this off and I cannot stress 
 this enough, you need to play Left 4 Dead. If you have a decent PC, I would recommend the PC version 
 over the Xbox only because of the great support and eventually free content that will be available 
 down the road. The Xbox does have the leg up thanks in part to the fact that each Xbox owner has 
 a head-set which is an important tool needed to play, so even if you settle for that version, you're 
 getting your money's worth. If you were looking for a fun game that will still give you the creeps 
 when you're playing it over and over again, I have to say that Left 4 Dead is the only game you'll 
 need. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggest_loser
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2009 1:51 am PT
Review:  Valve's latest First Person Shooter Left 4 Dead takes place two weeks after the outbreak of a zombie 
 virus. We are introduced to four survivors: Bill, Francis, Louis and Zoey. We are not given any 
 details to their back stories or the cause of the zombie infestation. Rather, this intense multiplayer 
 experience focuses on co-operative online play, in which players can take the role of a survivor 
 across four campaigns. They can battle enemy teams in Versus Mode, switching between the role of 
 the Infected and the Survivors. Each of the four campaigns is divided into numerous parts and players 
 can expect to travel through forests, hospitals, warehouses and an airport, in a bid to escape 
 the zombie hordes and to find the safe houses. 
  
  With load screens that resemble classic horror movie posters, as well as stereotypical lead characters, 
 Valve has no shame in mimicking horror films like Dawn of the Dead. Much like that film, L4D is 
 loaded with rapid gunplay, severed limbs and senseless gore. It is on the surface of this presentation 
 that the game appears to be a standard FPS. Yet at its core is an immensely fun and unique multiplayer 
 experience that rewards players for their ability to work together as a team. There are numerous 
 tasks throughout the game that force players to work together. Gone are the days of multiplayer 
 teams being just about who's team you were on. Rather, in Left 4 Dead, players must help fallen 
 allies off the ground, bash zombies off friends or heal teammates with the med kits. It is possible 
 to play the single player mode with bots, but this does not have the same spontaneity as the multiplayer 
 action. You never know when one of your human teammates is going to either do something heroic 
 or something obtuse. There is something incredibly intense and satisfying about surviving the zombie 
 horde and making to the safe house with your mates that the single player can't offer. 
  
  The four campaigns are made up of environments populated with large hordes of zombies. There are 
 also five special types of infected including: Hunters, Smokers, Boomers, The Witch and the Tank. 
 Each of these differs greatly in attacking styles. The Hunter for example can leap far into the 
 air and then pounce on a survivor; straddle them and then rip away at their flesh, till they are 
 bashed off. Smokers however work from a long range and are able to use their lengthy tongues to 
 sniper their victims and then strangle them, or allow other zombies to beat them to death while 
 incapacitated. Boomers are much slower and even more vulnerable than the Hunter and Smoker. When 
 in close proximity to a human the Boomer can vomit over them, covering the player in goo, which 
 immediately attracts an attacking horde of zombies. When the boomer is blown up they will also 
 douse players in the substance if they are close enough. In contrast to these classes, the Witch 
 is rarer enemy, faced once or less on each map. Players can either choose to fight the Witch and 
 take the risk of heavy damage or they can sneak past her. Finally the Tank is the strongest of 
 all the monsters and requires the entire team to take down. A mixture of the Hulk and King Kong, 
 the Tank is able to smash survivors across rooms and throw concrete slabs. Although it is not very 
 common, the Tank has the ability to change the rapidly change the tide of the campaign and cause 
 misery for players. It is quite clumsy however, and can be often be brought down by being evaded 
 and turned around regularly. All of these monsters are instant classics into the cannon of FPS 
 enemies, as they look and sound terrific. Despite their seeming simplicity, they are more than 
 just cannon fodder. Instead they have all been very well thought out and designed in reflection 
 of the co-operative game play, encompassing the necessity for players to combat them together as 
 a team. If a hunter or smoker incapacitates a survivor, then they will have to hope that their 
 teammates can kill the monster and then get them off the ground. If all Survivors are incapacitated 
 then the game is over. 
  
  Throughout the campaign players will find a small selection of weapons, starting with a pistol, 
 a pump action shotgun and a submachine gun. The second tier of weapons is more impressive, which 
 includes an M16 machine gun, a sniper rifle and an automatic shotgun. There are also Molotov Cocktails 
 to light up enemies and pipe bombs as well. Although there isn't a huge selection here, these still 
 adequately fill the needs of short to long range combat. Pipe bombs are scarce, but they are imperative 
 in changing the tide of a battle. If the player is struck by a boomer or surrounded by a horde, 
 the pipe bomb can be thrown to attract the attention of nearby zombies and have them blown to smithereens. 
 All of the weapons are a lot of fun to use because they feel so satisfying in their handling. They 
 seem to all have been designed to really suit the rapid speed of the game play, at which you are 
 attacked and surrounded by enemies. All of the guns, even the rifle, have a very fast firing rate 
 and relatively quick reload times. It does take time to get used to this very loose and fast feel 
 to the gunplay and the physics, but it is a lot of fun and very addictive. 
  
  The campaign for Left 4 Dead has been criticised for being quite short. Indeed there are only four 
 campaigns and each may take an hour to finish. However, these can be replayed over and over again 
 given that Valve have implemented Director Technology, which allows the game to make variations 
 as to where enemies come from, and where weapons and supplies are hidden. Although the changes 
 may seem subtle, it does add to the tension and spontaneity of the game play since you don't know 
 where enemies might be lurking. You may have to verse the Tank when you have little to no health, 
 or you may not have to fight him at all. The excellent AI is also a benefit to the game. If you 
 play the game with Bot teammates they will always keep up with you, shut doors behind you to slow 
 down zombies, and pick up additional weapons and use health packs as a human player would. Only 
 rarely, very rarely, as you wait for a final showdown, will they stand in a spot that will have 
 you shaking your head. Zombies act as they should too, that is not particularly intelligently for 
 the undead, by staring off into space and then rushing into your weapons, hoping for their sheer 
 numbers to overwhelm you. The chaos in these battles, with hordes of zombies swarming around you, 
 is just amazing and quite unlike any other zombie game you've played. Amidst the chaos of a battle 
 it can be easy to mistaken teammates for zombies and friendly fire is always kept on throughout 
 the game. 
  
  The Special Infected is more intelligent, with Hunters and Smokers in particularly looking to catch 
 out players flagging behind their teammates. You really don't appreciate the level of tactics employed 
 by the Infected until you play Versus mode. In those mode you will verse an opposing team, switch 
 between playing as the Infected and the Survivors. It takes a fair amount of time to master each 
 of the Special Infected classes. Once you play this mode several times however, you will come up 
 with regular tactics that you can use against teams. Even as the Infected it is still necessary 
 to play as a team in order to stop your enemies. For example, it can be highly rewarded if Hunters 
 attack Survivors at the simultaneously, or if a Smoker covers the Hunters in case the other Survivors 
 try to launch a rescue of their teammates. Playing with and against humans is the strength of the 
 game and probably its greatest weakness too. It doesn't matter how good a player you are, because 
 if you have an uncooperative team then you will lose, which can be incredibly frustrating. In contrast 
 though, when the game just gels and you are winning, it is such a fun and satisfying experience. 
 It is unfortunate that Versus often becomes a lopsided contest given that one team will normally 
 outclass another well before the end. Closer matches would have been much more exciting. It is 
 also disappointing that Versus only allows you to play two of the four campaigns. It still remains 
 a lot of fun to play these two campaigns and Versus greatly extends the life of the game. I played 
 Left 4 Dead for well over 40 hours in total and Valve is meant to be releasing additional content 
 in the next few months. 
  
  Some have said that technologically the game shows the age of the Source Engine, but the game still 
 benefits from some really superb animations for the Infected. The way they move and run towards 
 you and get blown back by your weapons is spot on, exactly as how you would expect it to be in 
 a real zombie horror film. The character models on the Survivors are not the most detailed, but 
 just looking at them you can still grasp a sense of who they are and a bit of their story. The 
 voice acting of the Survivors too is competent enough and really accentuates the miming of the 
 Romero-style zombie films. It is Left 4 Dead's focus on game play as opposed to spectacular effects 
 that is really quite refreshing for a FPS. The way the game has been so well thought-out and designed 
 to encourage co-operative play, and the importance of playing as a team is innovative, addictive 
 and proof that Valve is still king of the FPS genre. 
  
  
  4.5/5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zartan3000
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2009 5:51 am PT
Review:  Another Valve classic! Downloadable via the Steam online shop ( for cheaper than in the stores) 
 for the first time, I think, Left4Dead brings great co-op play to the horror genre. Hope RE5 will 
 be as good! 
  
  You have to use teamwork to survive. Health boosts are rare so you have to be careful with your 
 life. Like the little dialogue the characters give when they are running low on life.
  
  There is a real, running for your life kind of terror when you are low on health and the safe house 
 is right in front of you... And forget about when you low on health and your ally has been pulled 
 by some stinking tentacle into a mass of biting, stomping zombies! Do you jump in to save your 
 comrade or provide cover from afar? Unlike other multiplayer games the realism here makes the game 
 that much more scary (No special powers, just you and three others and some shotguns) 
  
  In the competitive multiplayer, playing as a special character from the horde is also an interesting 
 twist! (Especially playing as the tank) ! But for me, the best part of the game for me is when you 
 are creeping around some ruined landscape and you can hear the enemy crying for your blood all 
 around you! Lights off! And watch out for that witch!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hphatecraft
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2009 10:35 am PT
Review:  In past iterations of Valve games there has always been an intense focus on providing an intense 
 and immersive gaming experience. From Half-Life to Counter-Strike, Valve FPS games offer some of 
 the more memorable gaming experiences around. However, most of those experiences were ones that 
 were centered solely on one player's happenings and reactions within an environment. Left 4 Dead 
 evokes the same level of solo excitement as previous Valve games, but turns its attention to the 
 importance of teamwork.
  
  In the standard campaign mode, which is driven by 4 stories to play through, you are placed in 
 a role as one of 4 survivors caught in the middle of a zombie outbreak. Your job is to navigate 
 through the hordes of undead and ultimately reach an extraction point where your team can be saved.
 
  
  To be perfectly blunt, there is absolutely no way you can reach the end of a campaign without the 
 help of your team. With the limited availability of both health and ammo, you will often find that 
 using your only health pack to heal an injured teammate would be more helpful than to save it for 
 yourself. If the injured teammate dies you will become vulnerable to more than a couple special 
 zombies that incapacitate you until a friendly survivor saves you.
  
  Left 4 Dead is supremely fun and exciting, but it suffers from a limited amount of campaigns to 
 play through, too few special zombies, and a small variety of weaponry. The community has been 
 restless with anticipation for both some necessary balancing issues and some added content. Only 
 time will tell how much longevity lies within the Left 4 Dead, but with a couple of patches and 
 a SDK the game could become a timeless classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chickenhide
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2009 6:31 pm PT
Review:  As you may have already heard, Left 4 Dead is simply an amazing game. The controls are very simple 
 and the game is really easy to get in to.
  
  There is indeed much more room for improvement though.
  
  In Left 4 Dead, you're an apocalyptic 
 survivor with 3 other people. Your goal is to simply evacuate the city and kill every zombie in 
 sight. With a great selection of weapons, you're expected to kill zombies, bosses and much more. 
 
  
  There are two types of game modes. Campaign is, obviously, the mode where you're with three other 
 players just fighting for your lives and trying to reach the evacuation point as quickly as possible. 
 Versus is a an 8-player game mode where you have the choice to play as a zombie or a survivor. 
 This can be very fun when you're playing with real humans, but with NPCs, versus is basically out 
 of the picture.
  
  There are a few things I'd like to say about the game that I just don't like. In Versus mode, you 
 can only play two out of the four campaigns, and there are many exploits in some maps that most 
 people know about, for instance, in the second mission of the first chapter, you're supposed to 
 start a lift and fight a horde of zombies. Unfortunately, someone had to exploit the fact that 
 you could simply knock down the gate that you're trying to get through, ruining the game for the 
 infected team. The game also has a few compatibility issues with Windows Vista. Its a burden to 
 have to start the game hoping that you wont crash in the middle of a fight, which happens to me 
 quite a lot.
  
  Left 4 Dead grows on you - definitely. After a while you will become bored, guaranteed, but that 
 probably wont stop you from continuing to play. Aside from a few bugs and some social problems, 
 (cough) Left 4 Dead was definitely on my top 10 for best games of 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leozt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 11:10 am PT
Review:  Four characters in a dizzying adventure, very good in environments maps, although it made a bit 
 more interactivity in it. The gameplay does not lose speed thanks to the engine source.
  God gameplay in multiplayer, four friends take the action and kaboom! the fight for your lives 
 begin.
  Few weapons, only 4 maps campaign are the negative things that have and will remain a best score. 
 But the rest is fantastic, the enemies are varied and frightening ... The Witch is spectacular!
 
  The detail is very good when you start each campaign, we playing a horror movie and action and 
 that makes the adventure is total.
  Hopefully Valve draw maps and more additions to the game. A game in itself very good. It will be 
 interesting to see the mods in the community.
  I think Left4dead be the beginning of a series of very interesting action on the part of Valve. 
 
  Good hunting ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tasty-man
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2009 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Before I start my review I have to get it out there. Most people say left4dead has no replay value 
 considering it only having four campaigns. This is not true, each campaign has four levels within 
 and Valve will be releasing more soon. Now with my review
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is amazing, each campaign basicly takes place in a horror movie facing against millions 
 of zombies. There are many types of zombies: common, hunters, witches, boomers, smokers, and tanks. 
 Each with it's own tactics and features. Play this game with friends and you'll never get bored
 
  
  AI:
  The AI is where this game shines, it's almost like every character is reading your mind when they 
 say something. And the AI director mixes up the way zombies are placed around the level providing 
 much replay value
  
  It's worth the money but be sure you know people who have it, playing with yourself or people you 
 don't know isn't as fun as playing with friends 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -insert_coin-
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2009 6:08 am PT
Review:  Killing zombies is one thing... fending off hordes with 3 other friends is another... but doing 
 it all while unleashing round after round into a crowd of never-ending zombies while having to 
 reload and still manage to be playing part in a b-movie-like masterpiece...
  
  well, now that's just showing off.
  
  The game itself might be a little short but each "movies" 
 lasts for a good 1- 2 hours, and within that time frame you get to kill a good 2000 or more zombies.
 
  
  And the multi-player and re-playability makes up for the "only" 4 stages. Along with the AI Director, 
 each adventure tends to be generally different. The music is amazing and really gets to you, putting 
 Doom 3's music engine to shame. The environments are brilliant, pulling the best out of all horror. 
 And the countless zombies.... that alone made me want this game. 
  
  My only problem is not with the game but the gamers. Online play can often pit you up with non-compliant 
 partners, running off on their own... but hunters tend to make short work of that...
  
  Steam would be unwise to ignore a follow-up expansion or add-ons. If they add more 'movie' scenarios 
 it would be brilliant.
  
  In conclusion, zombie horde death FTW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jehrman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 12:21 am PT
Review:  This game is great! Everything I thought it would be and then some. Only down side is that it doesn't 
 have enough campaign levels. Hopefully there will be a patch or something with more levels soon.
 
  
  [Breakdown]
  Graphics: 10/10
  I think that the graphics were great. I don't run a powerful computer so I can't play with high 
 graphics, but its still stunning on lower graphics because it still has the feeling of a zombie 
 apocalypse. The lighting (or lack thereof sometimes, hehe) was flawless and really helped get you 
 into the game. Not being able to see your surroundings beyond your flashlight, which moves when 
 you reload, really makes it a challenge of its own.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  The sound was executed perfectly. I played with the sound way up with my nice headphones and it 
 helped me predict what was up ahead (or behind us in the case of a horde attacking) by the noises 
 emitted by the infected. The instant you hear a witch crying, you turn your flashlight off in fear 
 of alerting her and getting destroyed in the face!
  
  Story: 9/10
  It may not be the most original story, being about zombies and getting to the rescue area, but 
 it still keeps you interested. Hearing the characters talk to you (when playing with AI) really 
 helps the feeling of the game. Just make sure you don't attached to the characters too much! The 
 intro scene was priceless! An epic rush of adrenaline, and then a little laugh at the end.
  
  Concept: 10/10
  Rushing through hordes of zombies, rescuing your friend from a Hunter mauling 
 away at him/her, fighting the last battle against unbelievable odds and making that last dash for 
 your life to the get away vehicle! What's not to like? And the best part is that you can connect 
 with up to 3 of your buddies to help you along your quest for freedom from the zombie hordes.
 
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  I believe being driven by the Source engine really helped me get familiar with the feeling of the 
 game. All those hours lost to Counter Strike: Source and Half Life 1/2 set me up to be able to 
 know exactly whats going on and know the controls. But anyone can just five right in and after 
 a run through a mission will be fluent. There aren't a million different buttons to learn, yet 
 its still very interactive and gives the feeling that you are really there fighting for you and 
 your friends' lives. As well, not having to unload a few clips into each zombie (minus the Tanks, 
 hehe) really speeds up the game in a good way. Having to shoot away a shield and then the health 
 (like in Halo) can really be an annoyance and allows ganging up to be overpowering. Here it allows 
 skilled gamers to fire a few rounds into the head of a zombie and move on to the next target that 
 is probably running at him/her crazily.
  
  Replay: 9.5/10
  Despite only having 4 missions, it is still fun to play again and again. The spawning of enemies 
 and creep (and the random intervals of attacking hordes) really mix it up. So even though you can 
 eventually know your way around a mission, you won't know where everything will be. Also, the cherry 
 on top is the fact that there is no *one* path to take to get tot he next safe house. Taking a 
 different route the next time you play that mission could reward you with a quicker route, or lead 
 you in circles.
  
  Overall: 10/10
  Put all of this together and you get an excellent game. Despite a few minor flaws, the game really 
 is perfect in the way a game should be. I highly recommend this to any gamer (even those that aren't 
 fans of the genre/setting) . Its a unique experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExeterTheMonk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  First person shooter games are often boring to me, since they are all basically the same; the only 
 difference they offer is story, graphics, and gore.... while Left 4 Dead is especially strong with 
 its gore, as should be expected from a zombie game, it truly shines in its multi-player functions.
 
  
  you can play it by your self but you wont get the proper satisfaction from the game.
  
  The whole game play is based on keeping yourself and team mates alive. not an easy task some 
 times. The game offers four campaigns, all are fun and intense.
  
  The online multi-player options are limited, You have two options join a lobby with randomly assigned 
 people or create a lobby to have it filled your friends and/or randomly assigned players. Giving 
 people the option to join lobby's with specific requirements would be helpful. 
  
  overall its fun and offers lots of potential. You will go to sleep and hear zombies at night if 
 you play this game to much.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CRM114
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is an immensely satisfying multiplaer experience. There are few games around today 
 that are quite possibly as fun to play with friends as Left 4 Dead. Level Design is thorough and 
 the graphics are fantastic for what is essentially a half-life 2 modification. Enemy AI is smart 
 and dynamic, meaning no two run-throughs of Left 4 Dead's four co-operative campaigns will ever 
 feel the same. Versus Multiplayer is equally entertaining, and certainly helps to prolong the game's 
 longevity. Sadly, dearth of content is the game's major flaw; what comes with Left 4 Dead is undeniably 
 awesome, its just unfortunate that there's so little of it. Expect 40 hours, tops out of the game 
 as it arrives in-box. Of course, Valve has promised us more missions in the future, but as it stands 
 now, the game feels a lacking. A real shame, as Left 4 Dead is one of the most enjoyable, accessible, 
 and entertaining shooters I have played in a long time. Still worth your 40$, despite the flaws. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicspeedshoes
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 31, 2008 1:20 am PT
Review:  i can run in my pc but the RAM just 756 mb so i must to 2 giga but this game very different than 
 any survival horror game this game is twice AWESOME!!! 
  
  this is the detail:
  Left 4 Dead is a co-operative, survival horror, first-person shooter video game. It was developed 
 by Turtle Rock Studios, which was purchased by the Valve Corporation part-way into development. 
 The game uses the Source game engine, and is available for Windows-based personal computers and 
 the Xbox 360.
  The game pits four Survivors of an apocalyptic pandemic against hordes of aggressive zombies. There 
 are two game modes: a four-player, co-op Campaign mode, and an eight-player Versus mode. In both 
 modes, an AI, dubbed "The Director", controls level pacing and item spawns, in an attempt to create 
 a dynamic experience and increase replay value.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Endach
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 30, 2008 6:18 am PT
Review:  There are very few people that dislike L4D and simply because it's a damn good game. I'm not going 
 to touch on all of the reasons for liking L4D, because slaughtering zombies alone makes it worth 
 the purchase. 
  
  A game like L4D makes anyone who even remotely appreciates zombies salivate with gorish excitement. 
 But as much as I have enjoyed L4D there is one aspect in particular that I don't care for and that 
 is simply the lack of melee weapons and just 'stuff' in general. I understand that developers may 
 not have been able to go all out on melee weapons as it would add a plethora of new animations 
 and code the game, but who doesn't want to beat zombies to death in with a crowbar in a game made 
 from Valve? These guys particularly immortalized the damn thing and now they tell me that I can't 
 run around bludgeoning zombies with it? Does that seem right to anyone? It's just cold, but a part 
 of me thinks/hopes they are just wetting our appetite and that the nebulous future might hold a 
 few melee goodies for those of us who like to swing large, heavy, inanimate objects around. 
  
  Then there is the 'stuff' factor. One part of me says, "Ok, so they are trying to survive this 
 zombie apocalypse and supplies are limited so it's hard to come up with doodads.", but then there 
 is another part of me that says, "Wait a second.. Check out all of the zombies in military uniforms 
 and the humves around here." Surely, in all of that military wreckage there is some serious hardware 
 that can be used to lay down your own apocalypse. If I can't have a crowbar then can I at least 
 have a grenade launcher? 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 29, 2008 1:04 am PT
Review:  left4dead is one of the greatest zombie games that showed on the PC.. its fun to shoot at lots 
 and lots of zombies that runing to you.
  
  graphics: so its another game of VELVE and im not surprised that the graphics is not amazing, its 
 ok.. i had expected for a better graphics but i think that the graphics of L4D is ok.
  
  sounds: the sound is great, the effects are powerful, scary zombie sounds with great effects of 
 shooting.
  
  gameplay: ok, here is the main problem, only 4 levels for a "movie" that you can finish in live 
 20 minutes of non-stop playing, there arent enough levels and i finished this game in like two 
 hours of game... that kinda destroy the game. the VERSUS mod is really good but again its repetitive 
 that theres only 4 levels, and it gets booring as hell.
  
  story: ok... you are the survivors and zombies are attacking you.. same like every other zombie 
 games.
  
  ok, i think that the game is great but 4 levels is not enough, i think you need to rent it first, 
 before you will buy this game.
  i hope that velve will relese a patch that will include more levels 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AMDP92
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  I thought this was just another wannabe Horror Survival game...
  
  But I was wrong...
  
  When I started the game I watched the intro video... I was like "WOW"...
  
  Well now, let's 
 review this game in proper...
  
  Gameplay (9/10) :
  
  The gameplay is amazing for a Horror FPS. What I like about the gameplay of L4D is that it's just 
 simple: shoot zombies to survive, plus you have 3 more allies to help you -- COOL!
  
  Graphics (8.5/10) :
  
  I don't really criticize graphics of games... The graphics of L4D is quite 
 stunning due to its details of the surroundings and the zombies...
  
  Story (7.5/10) :
  
  The game should have been better if they gave much more emphasis on the story... Valve should have 
 narrated a story...
  
  Overall score: 9/10
  
  Bottom line: Left 4 Dead is the best Horror Survival FPS since Doom 3...
  
  I would recommend 
 this game to Horror fans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffidiyah
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 8:28 pm PT
Review:  First off, it must be said that this game should only really be played with at least 3 other people. 
 After playing with others, the computer simply does not cut it. They will refuse to help you when 
 you get into the roughest of situations, causing much frustration. However, with 4 human players, 
 the game becomes an experience like no other. It encourages like no other game before it to make 
 sure each and every member is accounted for and to help anyone in need of assistance. Success in 
 the campaigns requires the cooperation of every player. The levels are exquisitely designed and 
 the action is among the most intense of any game in existence. Zombies will run after you with 
 inhuman speed and will no doubt illicit hilarious panic responses in some gamers. The game really 
 shines in vs. mode, where two teams take turns on a series of stages, one side taking control of 
 the game's protagonists and the other playing any of 4 "special" zombies. Strategy becomes a focal 
 point on the zombie side as you must utilize the particular strengths of your randomly appointed 
 zombie to stop the human players from reaching their safe zone. The biggest downfall of the game 
 lies in its poor single player experience (although it may not be a problem initially if you haven't 
 played with anyone else yet) and a very small number of campaigns to choose from. This will probably 
 be fixed in the future if the developers release new material. This game gives you an unforgettable 
 experience and revolutionizes team gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesusmartin23
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Keep in mind that I am not allowed to say what I really want to say or Gamespot will delete my 
 review and "punish me" by lowering my rank. So I keep all my reviews just like a news paper at 
 a 6th grade level.
  
  One word Multiplayer, nothing else exists. The guns are not special but have super powers. A single 
 shotgun blast that looks anything but impressive can clear up 8 zombies that will dissappear in 
 mid air leaving no bodies behind. You play 4 maps devided in about 6 check points. Co-Op exists 
 for the first time in an FPS on PC, at least for me. About 6 types of monsters. No clever jumping, 
 the sniper rifle is more of a novelty since everything is so easy to kill and the only thing that 
 matters is reaching that checkpoint and that can be done without firing a shot just by pushing. 
 This game is all about having fun with internet friends and I can see how someone can squeeze 40 
 hours of multiplayer time before dumping it. It is fun to play I am just not sure if its worth 
 paying for. I would still play absolutely anything related to the CS engine I am fascinated by 
 it and can not get enough from Valve. Not every game can be great but every effort deserves praise. 
 Bring on the zombies we all like to shoot them. Just pretty please add some bustance to it. Learn 
 from the zombie mod for CS god knows it has fans that lasted years. Take care kids. - Dictated 
 but not read - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svns_reaper
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2008 12:09 am PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is a gory, adrenaline soaked, fast paced blast-fest. Forget about simulation. This 
 is all about run and gun, split second decions, and total chaos, especially on the higher difficulty 
 levels.
  I was worried about the lack of variety being there is only 4 levels and a limited amount of weapons 
 but once you start playing and getting to know this game you'll see theres more to it than meets 
 the eye.
  It goes without saying you'll want to play with friends that have head sets/mics or at least hope 
 for competent human players to join up. If you're a seasoned fps veteran you'll pick this up quickly 
 but you'll find it to be more fun as you get better at it.
  The versus mode is also a blast. I haven't spent quite as much time on this yet as I have the campaign 
 but so far it's been cool to play as the boss zombies. it takes some practice but you'll soon be 
 pouncing , puking on, tossing, choking, and pounding the survivors into the next time zone.
  This is a fun game and I don't regret shelling out the cash for it. It's replayability is higher 
 than you may think too. It pulls no punches it just smacks you right in the face and keeps smacking 
 you until you get yor ass on that chopper. Buy it if you like fps's you'll have fun with it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drygor7
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  In the game left 4 dead you play as 4 survivors going through different campaigns trying to survive 
 a zombie infestation there isnt much story to be heard but the characters are still they're own 
 people they arent stale game characters they each have personalities with different reactions to 
 things and are pretty 3 dimensional characters when it comes to gameplay it is the most fun you 
 will ever have in a zombie game your partners feel necessary and you cant just run off on your 
 own and expect to survive the 4 campaigns are all fun but you get bored seeing alot of the same 
 places over and over again the game uses a lobby system instead of the simple server search valve 
 normally uses and many of the servers are laggy but despite these faults left 4 dead is an incredible 
 experience that if you dont buy at least rent it i give it a 9/10 for useful partners balanced 
 difficulty and alot of fun with friends but laggy servers lobby system and repetitive maps bring 
 it down a bit but overall this is a great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkmask1991
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  This game is incredible and highly addictive!
  Few games manage to put the survival and co-operation emphasis like this one (if there is any) , 
 and delivers one of the best multiplayer experiences a game can do. If you want a better game play 
 invite your friends because the bots tend to be a little dumb sometimes Excellent sound effects 
 keep you on the edge of your seat, Creepy atmosphere keep you on your toes, beautiful graphics 
 will amaze you and an addictive gameplay will keep you strapped on the seat for hours. You can 
 play as one of the four survivors or the super infected, each one with unique powers. Just watch 
 out for occasional tearing and some glitches along the way, but nothing serious. This game runs 
 great on a core2duo 2.13ghz, 7600gt 256mb and 3gigs without AA. If you like multiplayer co-op games 
 and survival look no further than Left 4 Dead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitmanr93
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  Valve has never really disappointed me, but this time they have simply amazed me! 
  Well L4D is not just another first person shooter. Its about you and 3 other characters either 
 NPC's or ur friends. The game has 4 campaign's and each one has 5 chapters to complete. The thing 
 is, everytime you play it, it will be completely different because of the impressive AI system. 
 The game has 4 difficulties, Easy, Normal, Advanced and Expert. For Easy and normal you can do 
 it on your own but for Advanced and Expert it would be a lot easier if u got a friend who is actually 
 liven with you. There is 6 weapons in the game so far. The ones you start with are Uzi or shotgun 
 with a pistol. You can pick up another pistol and dual weild. When you get futher on you get a 
 Hunting Rifle, Auto-Shotgun or a Machine Gun. You can get either a pipe bomb or a Molotov too.
 
  
  The co-op aspect of this game is really where the greatness of this game comes from. When you have 
 three friends playing alongside you trying to survive on expert or advanced, sharing pills, health, 
 and trying to keep each other alive, you just do not get any feeling other than accomplishment 
 when you make it to a safe house. If one of your friends is unlucky enough to die, you can revive 
 them in a sense. After a short respawn period, you will see an orange silhouette of a person through 
 walls ahead of you. If you go to the door that they are behind and open it, the person who died 
 is brought back into the game. While it would be more a game of desperation if you could not revive 
 them after death, it does make the game more fun. If you died and were gone permanently, I think 
 a lot less people would play this game. I know that this is really supposed to be a survival horror 
 game, but you really cant run out of ammo. The pistols have infinite rounds, and the main weapons 
 have at least 128 rounds. The Uzi has 400+ You're never worried about running out so this aspect 
 is somewhat downplayed. L4D is a short game but the fact that weapons, enemies, health, and ammo 
 piles are ALL change every time you play, makes this game infinitely playable. Yes their are only 
 4 campaigns, but think about this. 1) If you get it for PC, valve and steam are known highly for 
 their mod-community. and 2) Because of the AI-Director, (that chooses spawn points for everything) 
 it would be quite easy for Valve to simply make new campaigns as DLC. So in the future I'm pretty 
 sure well probably be able to look forward to new campaign maps.
  
  Versus mode. This game is highly rewarding no matter how you play it, the ways you can kill zombies 
 are great and this is a wonderful addition to the already large number of hits by Valve.
  
  After resident evil 4, this is the only game which is a true zombie shooter, and its the best from 
 valve, and the best shooter of 2008!
  
  my ratings- 
  Gameplay - 10
  Graphics - 9.5
  Sound - 10
  Multiplayer - 10
  Overall - 10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tr3v3r
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2008 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Theres nothing better than a good zombie game, L4D is a very awesome one at that. There's 25 chapters 
 total, 5 scenarios. There is a lot of zombies, and I mean A LOT, what's better than that? the fact 
 that theres no actual story or plot to it, just zombie killing.
  
  Gameplay-
  Fun, addictive, Killing zombies hasn't been this much fun in years.
  The difficulty depends on 
 the difficulty level you choose, so it can either be a easy zombie apocalypse or a hard zombie 
 apocalypse, which one appeals more to you?
  
  Multiplayer-
  Having a team of four people fighting off the zombie apocalypse... Thats where it's at. Theres no 
 b*tching in this game, no competition besides the VERSUS mode, which is awesome because you play 
 as the special zombies. which can be a thrill,
  But when you are trying to fight off the zombie apocalypse, you work as a team, and you have a 
 blast doing it.
  
  If you sit down with four friends, play some co-op, you will not get bored of this game. It's simply 
 that fun.
  If you're looking for a fun multiplayer game, this is IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bowserpwns
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  ok. Left 4 Dead is awsome thats just how it goes. i hearsd of this game from a friend and at first 
 i thought "this could be ok, i guess ill rent it." well when i did and i popped it in and played 
 single player i was like "ok this game isnt that bad, could be better tho."
  
  then i had 3 of my friends play it with me on XBL and i was completly blown away. the game like 
 completly changes when you play with friends. so when we had our fill of the campeign we decided 
 to do some versus. when i played as the zombies for the first time i nearly crapped my pants i 
 was so excited. the game is so immersive and addictive. i dont even mind the number of maps they 
 have, the playthroughs are never the same so your never talking to your friends saying, "ok watch 
 out when we get into the next room theres a witch so watch out". you can try and say that but when 
 you go in there expecting a witch and tank comes out and pummels you to death you can cry then.
 
  
  overall this game is worth playing no matter what type of gamer you are. you will like this game 
 alot and if you dontthen you must be stupid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gustavomp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  The best multiplayer game in 2008.
  
  There is plenty of "cooperative games" out there, but almost none of them needs cooperation.
 
  
  Left 4 Dead is cool because you NEED TO help each other to get to your rescue. It's so funny to 
 play like a team, staying together to kill hundreds of starving zombies in a small room... it's 
 hard to describe how good this game is.
  
  This game loses 0,5 in this review because of the lack of a good single player mode. The friendly 
 AI is very good, they don't get stuck in walls... but it isn't the same sensation as playing online.
 
  
  There are few maps (4 campaigns divided in 5 maps) but i don't think that's a problem. Probably 
 the developer will be launching new content soon, and there are lots of mods. These few maps are 
 very well made and aren't boring.
  
  The characters are very beautiful and the animations are very good too. The zombies' models are 
 nice, that fat boomer is ugly (LOL!) ...
  
  You can play with 4 people as a survivor using various weapons or on versus mode as a survivor 
 or an infected ( zombie) with special abilities and kill the survivors.
  
  This game is really worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doc18
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2008 6:35 am PT
Review:  I've played so many zombie games now that if/when the apocalypse does happen and everyone turns 
 to zombies, i'll know what to do, where to go, who to shoot. I would be a real life version of 
 leon kennedy and chris redfield, except a heck of a better shot. Zombie games are fairly routine 
 for me now, resident evil, silent hill and other zombie horror games mean that i'm never really 
 suprised. Untill Left 4 Dead. 
  
  The gameplay in it is fast, frantic and suprising. You really do not know what will be around the 
 next corner. This is thanks to the genius creation of the Director, the Ai that controls all the 
 enemies in the game. The Director chooses where to place them, what type of enemies will be there, 
 and how many. It truly is a game that offers limitless replayability because it always adjusts 
 and feels like your playing a new game. This is because The Director always takes into account 
 your skill and difficulty level.
  
  The AI in the game is truly terrific, the zombies act like you expect zombies would, mindlessly 
 shuffling around, that is, untill they see you. Then they become savage beasts trying to tear you 
 apart and it really does show, the anger in their faces and the speed at which they move. It's 
 common sight to see a zombie run full pelt at you, only to be blown away by your allies, or by 
 one quick shotgun blast. The friendly AI in the game is also truly top notch, they will comment 
 on what they hear and alert you to any special types of zombie (more on the enemies later) and 
 they will also provide adequate partners. Although sometimes they don't follow the plan you were, 
 like stay there and snipe, they usually get it right.
  
  The enemies are where Left 4 Dead truly shine, 6 different types of enemy within the game and you 
 hate having to encounter every type, as they all are devilishly cruel. You have your standard slow 
 minded zombie, but instead of shuffling towards you they run full pelt, a bloodthirsty rage obvious 
 in their eyes.
  You have Boomers, these are disgusting bloated zombies, very much like the ones from house of the 
 dead, however they have two very nasty attacks. If they throw up on you, it attracts a horde of 
 zombies, however you can't see either, it is a real danger trying to defend yourself while blind 
 because you don't want to hit your allies. When you shoot it however it explodes, and the bile 
 goes everywhere, so you really need to keep your distance from this one.
  Hunters, fast , nimble and oh so sneaky. They hang from ceilings and sneak up close before launching 
 themselves at you from the air, if they land on you, your helpless, they will begin to claw at 
 your stomach in an attempt to open you up, the only way you can escape is if one of your partners 
 kills the hunter or pushes it off you.
  Smokers, have a lasso like tongue that is extremely long and grabs you then chokes you, you can't 
 do anything but watch as your slowly reeled in, you need an ally to help you escape either by shooting 
 the tongue or the smoker. when the smoker dies, it explodes into a disgusting gas that obscures 
 your vision and makes it hard to fire.
  Tanks, brutal creatures, literally are the human form of a tank, huge strong beasts that look like 
 a zombiefied version of arnold schwarzenegger back in his heydey. These zombies take a beating, 
 but they also dish out one, and worst of all is that their fast. You have to run and shoot but 
 make sure you don't get trapped, or they'll knock you about... HARD
  The worst is perhaps the witch, these little beasts appear frequently, you can tell they are around 
 because you hear them before you see them, you hear crying and wailing. But when you get near one, 
 pray that you can sneak round it, because if you disturb it, you're in for a real fight. The witch 
 is fast, deadly, and with long claws, a real killing machine.
  
  The enviroments within Left 4 dead are pretty generic, hospital, woods, airport and bits inbetween 
 like the streets, but however limited you feel by the enviiroments, left 4 dead makes up for this 
 with the Director. The enviroments can look a little bland though, but this is purely because valve 
 used the source engine, the engine that half life 2 used.
  
  The weapons in left 4 dead are also pretty standard, but they all pack a punch and really look 
 great. From the manufactre mark on the pistol to the lit fuse on the pipe bomb, it really adds 
 a certain authenticity to the zombie apocalypse.
  
  The online in the game is even better, you can play either versus or campaign. Versus one side 
 plays a zombies and ones side plays as survivors, in the campaign you take the roles of the AI, 
 both run very smoothly and play brilliantly, its better as well because you can form plans, split 
 up, whatever you think is the right call to make.
  
  Even though Left 4 dead uses a slightly dated engine, it still looks great, it plays brilliantly 
 and the online is great for a zombie horror, and you get to play as zombies! The introduction of 
 a director is a great idea and really adds longetivity to the game, all in all Left 4 dead is a 
 game that i can reccomend whole heartedly, because it truly is a brilliant first person shooter, 
 as well as a brilliant horror game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheProdigy333
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2009 1:54 am PT
Review:  So here we are discussing Left 4 Dead. As the holidays approach more and more people wonder about 
 what game they should buy for present to their selves or to close friends and/or family. So here 
 I am to suggest a few games, and if you're interested check my profile for Prince of Persia (2008) 
 and Far Cry 2 reviews. More coming soon. 
  
  Left 4 Dead is an exciting and immersive game as long as you have an internet connection. Of course 
 that doesn't mean you can't play it without one, but it won't be much of a fun playing with bots 
 instead of real humans. Trust me , I know what I'm talking about. 
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay in Left 4 Dead is like in every other Valve game, awesome, innovative and surprisingly 
 immersive. In my opinion Valve is one of the best (if not the best) game companies and the fact 
 that their every game is simply stunning confirms it. A few examples are Half-Life (best game of 
 all times in my opinion) , Counter-Strike (not a big fan, but the fact that people still play it 
 today gotta mean something) , Portal (one of the newest addition in their game collection, fun and 
 clever puzzles make for a truly unique game) , Team Fortress (fun multiplayer game with lots of 
 potential) . But let's continue with Left 4 Dead. The main idea is that you have to kill lots and 
 lots and lots of zombies in order to get to a safe house. There are 4 small campaigns. All four 
 of them make a total of 4-5 hours of gameplay. Not much but the replay value of this game is beyond 
 comprehension :P. Each campaign consists of 5 chapters. The last chapter in each campaign is an 
 evacuation, meaning you have to reach a certain location and wait there until rescue arrives. The 
 greatest thing about this game is the need for teamwork. If there's no teamwork then it is more 
 that certain that you're dead. Even on the easiest difficulty. That's the reason why the multiplayer 
 is way better that the singleplayer. One more thing about the multi is that you can actually play 
 as one of the zombies and try to kill the survivors. Of course you're not a common zombie, but 
 a "special infected" which means you have some "special powers" to use such as: vomit on the survivors 
 to blind them for a while, or pull them towards you with your veeeery long tongue. It's too bad 
 that you can't play as zombie in singleplayer mode. One thing about the zombies is that they appear 
 mostly in hordes which means that you'll be facing hundreds of them at a time. Finally another 
 great aspect is that you can heal your teammates if they fall injured in battle. You can only revive 
 them only 3 times and if they don't use a med pack by that time then they're dead. Besides med 
 packs, that fill your health up to 80%, there are pills that increase your health up to a certain 
 level but slowly decrease it as time passes.
  
  Graphics:
  Compared to other Valve games this one is the best-looking. Also the loading times are rarer than 
 in Half-Life and Portal. At some point I was sure I was playing F. E. A. R. because the graphics and 
 the environments are very similar. The weapons aren't very well done (and there are only 5 or 6 
 of them) but given the pressure you're under and the hordes of zombies you have to face there is 
 not much time to look at the weapons :D. Overall, besides the weapons everything else is great 
 and you can really experience a zombie apocalypse.
  
  Story:
  I know that there is no real story here but I wanted to say something that really impressed me 
 and I really liked. In the beginning of each campaign, at the loading screen there is a movie poster 
 with the protagonists and there is always a phrase, typical for movies, such as: "Hell came to 
 earth. These four are gonna send it back" or "No hope. No cure. No problem." They are very funny 
 and really interesting because actually you play in a zombie movie. Other than that I can't find 
 anything else to say here since the only thing you do is killing zombie dudes in order to reach 
 a safe house.
  
  Replay Value:
  The replay value of this game is GrEaT. You can play the same campaign again and again just because 
 it's amazing and so short, that you can finish it in an hour. The fun and nearly impossible achievements 
 Valve put in the game increase the replay value a lot too. And even if you decide to stop playing 
 the game I'm sure you'll come back to it really soon. And you know why? Because there is nothing 
 better than killing screaming zombies. And by the way there are a lot of different types of zombies. 
 You can encounter cop zombies, doctor zombies, civilian zombies, hospital patient zombies and many 
 more. They are great and really fun to kill. :D
  
  Bottom Line this game is way beyond my expectations and I recommend it to any FPS fan. Although 
 this game is not only for FPS fans it may seem very difficult to the inexperienced players. I guarantee 
 you hours of fun and joy (: P) and you're sure to like the awesome multiplayer mode.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 8
  Replay Value: 10
  Zombie Apocalypse: 10 :D
  Final Score: 9,2
 
  
  PS. I'm sorry for any grammar errors and/or wrong usage of words but my English is not the best 
 there is so be forgiving :) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joed06a
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  There are a lot of zombie games out there that capitalize on putting fear to players, most of them 
 up to the point of scaring other gamers from playing the game. Left4Dead on the other hand, is 
 quite a refresher to this genre.
  
  Unlike other zombie games that scare the crap out of gamerz, Left4Dead cleverly charms gamerz into 
 playing the game. The game actually makes the players "feel" they are in a typical Hollywood movie. 
 The atmosphere is just right, mixing different elements from various zombie flicks -- be it a dark 
 alley, a foggy forest, a zombie infested building -- Left4Dead captures the "Hollywood feel" that 
 makes the game seducing yet scary for players. The game has a good sense of balance -- always adjusting 
 to the players' skills -- meaning that the game will not be too hard or too easy for its players.
 
  
  Its graphics is just right. The textures are good, the shadows, the lighting, the characters' face 
 animations and the sky all add-up to the eerie feeling the game gives you. The settings are actually 
 easy to adjust, and is very optimized. Players can easily adjust the settings to high and see the 
 game as it was intended to be seen.
  
  The sound and music is just perfect. It doesn't give exaggerated playlists -- they're just right, 
 always adjusted to the situation the players are in. The sound cues that were provided immerse 
 seamlessly to the Hollywood setting the game gives to its players.
  
  The game forces the players to interact with other players throughout the game. All the game features 
 were designed for multi-players. The zombies are easily killed actually, depending upon your game 
 settings -- but the game actually adjusts them, sending out hordes of zombies and special kinds of 
 zombies to players. Truly this is a game with a Hollywood movie as its core element.
  
  All in all, Left4Dead is a game worth playing specially if you have friends that own the game too. 
 Good graphics plus good sound and music plus good mult-player features make this game a winner. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daword
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 4:16 pm PT
Review:  im played more than 200pc games. so i know what games are good and what games are boring or just 
 realy bad.. 
  but off course other like cars and other like girls so... do u like this its upto u =)
  
  -- 
   Sory my enghlis its not my main language so i try to write only short Reviews
  
  
  
  
  Graphic 8/10
  Source engine makes it looking good.
  
  
  Sounds 8/10
  almost Great... 
 i hope that gun sounds its different.
  zombie s. effects are Great. i like them
  
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  Awesome.. easy to play.. everything works Great!
  
  
  Time Spent Playing
 
  about 10hours? lets wait expansion ;)
  
  
  Difficulty 
  ok
  
  
  Worth to buy?
  Yes! Worth every $
  
  
  Gamevalue 9/10
  Finaly we realy get good Multiplayer game.. there 
 is singleplayer to whit Friend bots to play. ok its not perfect.. maybe to short but we will get 
 expansion.. Still great Game.. Buy it!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: magnumneon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 7:14 am PT
Review:  The game gave a promise of a new apocalyptic day putting you in the edge of your seat. I've been 
 playing this and I always wanted to pull the last part off to completion of each campaign. Its 
 not that boring because the enemy placement is different at all times even the items are randomly 
 place in every location and the overrun spawns at different location and very interactive to environment 
 giving the game a sweet deal. The scary ambiance and sound engine is good. The engine works that 
 blends with CS that sounds a little bit old school for a game like this but it gives a complex 
 action. The character (AI) team-up is good idea in this game. Online makes this game fun and leave 
 your menacing teeth grinding. Playing the game over and over again may sound boring but this game 
 blends with action and horror, it's main recipe of new danger give it taste for a long time. The 
 environment is too thrilling to explore putting you to try the most specific route you've taken 
 the most leaving more places unexplored.
  
  Bad thing is you are just enjoying 5 weapons and two kinds of bombs. Same enemy trend and Scary 
 Boomy Characters. I even wanted to crave for more enemies like creepy creatures, lot's of them. 
 The maps are only four though only four, the dangers always cost high. The engine must be a little 
 bit newer its quite old. The game shuts off unexpectedly if the Multi core rendering is turned 
 on.
  
  The game for me is a good score but to tell everyone, enjoying likable and addictive but you'll 
 end up realizing it lacks something. 
  
  Does this game have ummm Editor?
  
  But overall two-thumbs up for this game. One of kind FPS!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: izhamizan
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2008 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Ok.. My 1st thought on the game was another zombie killing lame game of it's genre.. but then i 
 got the game cause i didnt had no other option and decided to check this out..
  
  install the game.. got problm with the steam for awhile.. solved it then i was in..
  
  then 
 my thought change when i started the game.. just the main menu intersting.. then came in the online 
 fun..!!
  
  great job to the game developer.. i've been online playing this for 4 days in a row now.. well.. 
 the chapter's like 1hr or so.. but the intense.. woh.. u just want more.. and more.. and more...
 
  
  eventhough u find some jerk online u can always "VOTE" him out and get fresh and reliable partner 
 on ur side.. online mode there's versus where u change side to be the survivor of the u know "zombies".. 
 haha...
  
  enuf of me talking crap here.. let's get online..
  i'm out.... want to kill more zombies... c'ya!!
  
  p/s: GET THE GAME!! IT's WORTH IT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarDCoreZGamerZ
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  ok now i know alot of ppl are thinking wtf this game is short most of the campaigns are only 1 
 hour game 4 campains so at least about 4hrs 10 minutes but theres always online and the zombies 
 are controlled differntly avery time they dont stay in the same place so that good and online is 
 great dont get this game if you arent connected to internt just a waste of money always play online 
 on this game theres also a versus mode which is amazingly addcitive and fun u can choose betweed 
 the boomer smoker hunter and sometimes tank but its rare u have to tr to kill the survivors byu 
 climbing walls to leap or grab them and sometimes throw a big chink of cement at them the campaign 
 is fun too theres Dead Air Death Toll No Mercy and Death Harvest u can choose from an auto shotty 
 shotty uzi m16 dbl pistols and sniper rifle u can get a molotov and pipe grenade now i know there 
 are some down falls on this game like its toos hort not muhc weapons to choose from but im SURE 
 there going to get patches or whatever for this game they'll have more guns and lvls maybe more 
 boss infected to play as too so you should rent this first just to feel how the gameplay is some 
 ppl are just stupid and rate them 3.0's because they either: havent actaully played it yet dontknow 
 they will have patches for it or they just dont like zombie games or fps games or they just simply 
 hate games in general and are trying to get ppl to not but this game well im here to tell you that 
 u NEED this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XvX_Fear_XvX
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  L4D Is Great fun. It just never gets old killing zombies! The Campaign is very re-playable too! 
 There are lots of zombies to kill, but witches can be a pain. I haven't played online yet but i 
 hear it is really fun. The only downside I think.. is the selection of weapons. There is only 6 
 types! Shotgun, Hunting Rifle, Auto Shotgun, SMG, Pistol, and Machine Gun. They get a little bit 
 old after a while though... It would be fun to have some melee weapons like a shovel or axe or 
 something. That was something i liked about Condemned, you got to hit sh** with a pipe. If it had 
 more weapons and maybe a few more types of zombies, like tanks, witches, hunters, and smokers i 
 think it would be more challenging. Overall I really liked this game, it was fun for hours! i give 
 it an 8 out of 10.
  Buy it for Christmas... you won't regret it :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kanberlil
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 20, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Left for dead cannot be played unless you are on-line. You cannot track your stats off-line, you 
 cannot play the undead faction off-line, you cannot play the game off-line; you must have an internet 
 connection just to begin the game.
  
  And you will not find any of that on the box. That's misleading advertising. And that is what has 
 made me maddest about this product. It's not even very fun now, so I'm not calling it a game anymore. 
 If the on-line content had been listed, or if the box, in the "Requirements" section had even just 
 said "internet connection required" (the only mention on the box of on-line requirements regards 
 the licensing agreement, it nowhere states that you must be on-line just to start the game) I would 
 never have paid for or opened the box. That's the worst, to find out that the game isn't what was 
 expected, but now that it's opened, no store will refund the purchase price, not to mention re-sale 
 once EA and Valve have the registration code listed. Even they won't refund your money.
  
  Yes, most of us spent 49.99 on what we thought we were getting: some great scenarios, killing zombies, 
 with maybe a couple of maps and an on-line option. Instead, we all got was another bill for internet 
 service providers who are threatening increased fees and decreased bandwith for frequent use, risking 
 hacks and attacks and thefts, incessant Valve and EA monitoring (they log when you run your programs) , 
 targeted adverts and no option to just to have some fun. 
  
  That's lazy programming and it's lazy work by the designers and the legal team. Ok, so there is 
 some of the game that can be played off-line. The game for that is worth 19.99 at best. The programmers 
 got tired and decided that rather than actually being creative, they would let all the people who 
 spent too much for the game, make the game for them. It's like paying to get into a theme park, 
 and you have to make the rides work. 
  
  If the game were to be worthy of any more than 2.0, then the programmers need to go back to the 
 drawing board, and remember that first of all, don't lie to gamers, and second of all, a really 
 good story a la Bioshock is worth absolutely everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mpc45000
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Great game overall. The good first: great gameplay, fast paced, co - op based gameplay, easy or 
 hard, you can choose, fair graphics, levels never play the same. The bad: very short, small selection 
 of weapons.
  This game is great. Despite the tiny four scenarios, each with five sections, it's addicting and 
 fun. That's based mostly on the fact that the zombies, items, and weapons move every time you play. 
 The difficulty can be set to your liking and even the easiest setting isn't to easy and the hardest 
 isn't to hard. The four campaigns/movies are all set in different locations with different points 
 to escape to. The two most popular in my research, are No Mercy (where you travel to Mercy Hospital 
 to try for a rooftop rescue on via helicopter) and Blood Harvest (where you travel to a farmhouse 
 and defend while you wait for rescue) . I was disappointed only by the lack of weapons. There are 
 two shotguns, a SMG, an assault rifle, a sniper rifle, a pistol, molotovs, and pipe bombs (which 
 are especially fun because they lure hordes after them before they explode) . The medi-kit heals 
 80% health. The painkillers are 50% health and wear off over time. Except fot the sniper, you are 
 denied looking through a scope or down iron sights. Co - op gameplay is essential. I don't mean 
 you have to play online co - op (but thats highly recommended) , but to work together with the survivors. 
 The story of the survivors or where the infection came from is non existent. The names and former 
 occupations are really all that's known about the survivors. There's Bill, the Vietnam veteran, 
 Francis, the typical action biker hero guy, Louis, the tech guy, and Zoey, the college student 
 (who's really hot might I add) . They all also prefer a certain weapon. Bill likes the assault rifle. 
 Louis is a SMG fan. Zoey is a pistol lover. And Francis likes both shotguns and uses whatever one 
 he can find (also my prefered weapons of choice) . The special infected are really tough. There's 
 the smoker who will grab you with his long tong and drag you (and will also explode into disorienting 
 smoke when killed) . The hunter who will pounce on you and claw at you until you're dead. The boomer, 
 who'll vomit on you or explode on you when shot which will attract large hordes of zombies (basically 
 a pipe bomb time reaction minus you exploding) . The tank, a huge, rampaging zombie who will pick 
 up concrete and throw it at you or charge at you. The tank is especially tough to take down. Then 
 the witch, also as hard to take down as the tank but she normally has a one-shot one-kill attack. 
 The witch can be avoided. You will be alerted of her presence by crying. Don't shot her and keep 
 you're distance and you should be good. Each scenario ends in a daring rescue. The scenarios are 
 as follows, No Mercy, Death Toll, Dead Air, and Blood Harvest. You can play them in any order and 
 don't even have to play one if you don't want to. The perks of offline single player are rewarding 
 as you get first choice at pipe bombs and molis. Plus the computer controlled survivors are more 
 than happy to give you health if needed. Offline split-screen is also rewarding because you can 
 coordinate your plan easily. Online co-op is better in the fact that the computer is careless sometimes 
 and runs by zombies and online co-op buddies are the answer to that problem. Versus online play 
 is 8 player. Four players are the survivors. Four are the special infected. The computer controls 
 the regular infected. Left 4 Dead is an all out great game. If you can buy it, buy it. I would 
 get Xbox live just to play online co - op if I were you. A must have for First Person Shooter or 
 zombie games. It's Left 4 Dead and it's in stores now.
  
  M. P. Clarke 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GandalfTheGrey
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 19, 2008 4:36 am PT
Review:  I don't normally play first-person shooters but Left 4 Dead is incredibly good fun to play and 
 has outstanding co-op multiplayer. Fans of the zombie genre will also enjoy the format which places 
 the player inside a typical zombie film - each stage is a dash to the next safe room while fending 
 off the zombie hordes and figuring out which way to go, while the game really forces your group 
 to co-operate as a team.
  
  However, I have to say this game is incredibly short. You can play through the four "campaigns" 
 in about as many hours and six hours into this title I've done pretty much everything. I really 
 hope Valve release some downloadable content for this game to make my $99.95 investment stretch 
 a bit further.
  
  Back on a positive note, I'd really like to say that I'm very pleased with the performance of this 
 title. My four and a half year old P4 system plays in full widescreen with bumped up video options 
 and the game never skips a beat. Hooray! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalejrgamer
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 18, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  When we think of zombie video games, I think of Resident Evil or Capcom, seemingly the world leader 
 in zombie apocoplyse games. Of course, there are a few more publishers doing this genre and there 
 are (mostly terrible) movies based on the subject matter. We do have Outbreak, but it just feels 
 tacky.
  
  Along came Valve's Left 4 Dead.
  
  I don't know where to start... this game has a fair single-player system. The allied AI is best, 
 although a little incompetent at times. Four difficulty levels range from easy to expert, and I 
 doubt you want to take on expert. More like a guaranteed death level. Although strong, you might 
 wonder what's it like online, especially with a game that gears towards online multiplayer.
  
  As long as you have at least one, you know that the fun's there. Beating one of the four campaigns 
 available seems very fun, abeit taxing. Naturally, you want to kill all the zombies in a level, 
 but really, the gameplay is to get from point A to point B while taking as little damage as possible. 
 You have teammates to help, as long as you can stand them. If not, there's a reason why we have 
 the "kick player" in the "vote" option. All in all, not only you have to get to the safehouse, 
 you have to help teammates along the way. If they're stuck with the horde getting his/her ass handed 
 to them, dwindle them down or throw a pipe bomb. If a Hunter pounces on the player, shove it off 
 or kill it. Smoker hangs player? No worries, nail it. Player down? Resurrect him. Teamwork is the 
 basis of the gameplay of Left 4 Dead. Esentially, go from point A to point B while looking out 
 for your teammates. It is exciting as it is fun.
  
  Don't feel like tackling on the campaign mode? Go to versus mode. In this one, two teams of four 
 players take turns being the survivors and being the infected. The survivors side is basically 
 sticking together while going from point A to point B. The infected side, on the other hand, makes 
 you forget everything you need to know to survive the zombie apocoplyse... that's because you're 
 one of them! Seperate them by any means necessary. Play as a Boomer, where its vomit attracts the 
 horde and explodes when shot at. Hunter... pounce on the players to incapicitate them. Smokers are 
 like snipers without a rifle... its frog-like tounge puts players in a hanging situation. But everyone 
 likes to play as a Tank, right? With a high life, it's basically a "pummel a player to death" gameplay 
 as a Tank. The common infected will make the infected side's lives a little easier, but the Witch... oh 
 boy. Come close to her and you're basically screwed right there. Although you can't play as a common 
 infected or the Witch, you can use them to your advantage.
  
  Valve did a great job of putting an eeire atmosphere of the levels. Dark... desolate... hopeless. 
 They basically take some filmmaking techniques and put it in Left 4 Dead. The lighting is just 
 eye-popping, they spent some time getting the survivor's modeling right, as well as the infected. 
 The voice actors did a great job of adding a horrorific taste to this game (and oftentimes, humorous... case 
 in point: the church guy) . Everything you'd expect from a horror movie (especially when the zombies 
 are based on the movie 28 Days Later) . Adds a nice touch.
  
  The only things I gripe about the game is that you can finish the four campaigns in under an hour 
 on normal difficulty... which is fast. Also... well, there are four campaigns (No Mercy, Death Toll, 
 Dead Air, Blood Harvest) consisting of five levels, all of them short overall. It also has four 
 characters (Bill the Vietnam War Vet, Francis the outlaw biker, Louis the businessman, and Zoey 
 the college girl) with no unique characteristics (how they run, how they react, etc.) . Also, in 
 case one of them dies, the new survivor can be rescured from the closet. The only problem is that 
 the guy who just died actually comes back. Hmm.....
  
  But the game also focuses on another attribute: replay value. Valve implemented the new AI sistem 
 known as the AI Director. What it does is that no two same playthroughs of the same campaign are 
 alike. It will send out the Tank at a random time, place the Witch in a place you do not want it 
 to be there, triggers the horde because you're such a wuss, send out the special infected at random 
 times, place items in completely random places, even weapons, medical kits, and painkillers. It 
 will make you feel like you're playing a different campaign all the time even though there's four 
 to begin with. I just grew in love with the system.
  
  All in all, this game is great. Great graphics along with a strong campaign mode, multiplayer or 
 singleplayer (multiplayer preferred) , and a exciting versus mode will have you on the edge of your 
 seat. Anyone also wondering that this game actually helps you in case of an apparent zombie apocplypse? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtreme2571
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Highly addictive and loads of fun when playing online. I didnt see myself buying another Zombie 
 game, but I am glad I bought this one!
  
  You feel like your in some kind of 'B' rated movie and trying to survive to make it to the end 
 of the flik. The dont want to spoil the game for you folks that have not played it, but all I can 
 say is, you want be disappointed.
  
  If your into Apocalypse, Zombies and weapons, you dont need to look any further. This one is a 
 keeper!
  
  This game is definetly worth the money and oh yeah, the VOICE CHAT in game is EXCELLENT! It brings 
 even better immersion to the game if you team up with the right people.
  
  The game also has Achievments to unlocks to keep you going for hours.
  
  So what are you waiting 
 for... Go out and get it NOW and make sure you play the game is a well lit area, you will jump, 
 I gurantee it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kodmani
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is great ! and I mean amazing ! at first I was not into it at all and it was the last 
 game I ever wanted to buy. However, things changed. This game has one of the greatest multiplayer 
 experiences you will ever encounter. Playing it with all your four friends is fun great and you 
 will fail your midterms and finals because of this. Now lets start with review.
  
  Graphics: 
  Very similar to half life 2: ep 2 since both are using the same source engine, which 
 means low spec PC's can play with game without any problem, but it does still look marvelous on 
 low.
  
  Game play:
  Half life 2 ... WITH ZOMBIES !! I MEAN A LOT OF ZOMBIES !!! LIKE A LOT !!!! except mouse 2 you 
 can melee.
  
  Story:
  What story ??!! I thought I was killing zombies ??! there is no story particularly just a couple 
 of survivors trying to ... SURVIVE !! and leave the infected city and get rescued.
  
  Value:
  Kinda ... AVERAGE ! i mean $49.99 is a bit too much but STEAM offer bundle prices for 
 cheaper. But its worth it if you play it with all your friends.
  
  Online:
  If you are alone and your friends are busy you can play ONLINE ! you can either play the campaigns 
 with other people or you can play VERSUS mode. This is a 4 v 4 where 4 special zombies take 4 survivors. 
 The survivors mission is obviously to get to a safe house and SURVIVE (sry its the main objective) 
 and the ZOMBIES is to obviously to EAT THEIR BRAINS !!! before they finish the campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan543
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  It's good.
  
  That pretty much sums it all up. Left 4 Dead is an amazing game, every part from it's design it's 
 just amazing! Be it single player, co-op or versus mode, this game will keep you busy for a very 
 long time. This game has got all what a good FPS should have: cool guns, good AI and good Graphics. 
 So, imagine this: start with a shotty or an Uzi and blast the hell out of every zombie in your 
 way, and believe me, that is truly gratifying. The single player game lets you play with other 
 three CPU players that help you go through the levels, nevertheless, when you set the game on expert 
 they are pretty much useless. You always start on safe rooms that will stock you with ammo, give 
 you the chance to change weapons and a health pack. Once you get out, the action really begins, 
 and they really captured: if you have watched 28 Days Later or 28 Weeks Later and liked it, you 
 will love this game. Zombies ARE NOT mindless stupid slow things, but hungry beasts that run right 
 at you at full speed. This game is just mesmerizing from this perspective: the first time you hear 
 the tune announcing that zombies are coming at you you will surely start to crap your pants, as 
 you hear their voices and all of a sudden like 30 zombies coming from the same direction. That 
 is freaking cool! And that is not all. Very frequently you will encounter the Boss Zombies: the 
 Boomer, that pukes at you attracting an enormous pack of zombies to kill you, the Hunter, a zombie 
 that pounces at you from great distances, the Smoker, an infected that has a very large tongue 
 that drags you from great distances, the Tank, an infected that will take all of your ammo to take 
 down as you escape his powerful hits, and the Witch, which if you startle will chase you and kill 
 you in a matter of seconds. There are four campaigns in which you start in a safe room and you 
 must blast your way all through the level to get to the other safe room, but the fun is that the 
 levels change all the time, sometimes infected might fill the room, other not, sometimes infected 
 will appear out of nowhere, sometimes you will have to fight a tank or more or non, and it is extremely 
 fun to do over and over again. The difficulty is truly curved. Easy and Normal will teach you to 
 play the game, and it is really easy to go by without many problems, advanced will add a lot more, 
 but the expert level is literally the level for the hardcore: zombies are every coming at you from 
 every direction, they deal a lot more damage and special infected are a lot more frequent, including 
 the unstoppable tank. You cannot Rambo the game on this level, you have ti stick to your friends 
 or you will literally turn into a bloody pulp in no time.
  Nevertheless, the true essence of this game is to play it with other 3 people online, or with three 
 friends, and it can be heavily noticed on this game that it was designed for this sole purpose: 
 you cannot beat it without the help of your teammates. For example, to shove off a Hunter you need 
 a teammate to do it for you, or if a Smoker gets you before you can kill him, you also need help 
 from a teammate. The tank is what really stands out: all must join their effort to take down the 
 tank. the characters deteriorate from getting damage, that means that they start walking slower 
 from injuries, which also adds a lot to the game, for an instance, you cannot escape the Tank if 
 you run slower than him. You can heal your teammates if they are out of health packs or give them 
 pain pills, which raise their health temporarily and decreases over time. A character can be incapacitated, 
 and he can still shoot from the ground while he waits for a teammate to get him up, as another 
 health bar decreases. You fail the episode if all the survivors are incapacitated or killed. Nevertheless, 
 there are about 4 spawn points in case an incapacitated dies. This is truly a survivor game. You 
 have to all this while waves an waves of zombies come at you. The finales are especially difficult. 
 Zombies never stop coming until rescue comes and you run to it an board it while zombies chase 
 you. This game is very exciting. You can upgrade to 4 better weapons: dual pistols (you always 
 have a pistol with infinite ammo) , and a Assault Rifle, a Sniper and an autoShotty. All of them 
 are powerful and good for all occasions. You can also get pipe bombs, which make all of the horde 
 to run towards it distracting their attention fro you for a moment, and Molotov cocktails, which 
 cremate them to oblivion. Cooperating with your friends as zombies come at you form everywhere 
 is highly entertaining, especially on those critical moments when you are foots away from a safe 
 room and a tank if chasing all of you and you have low health, so you can barely run, or when you 
 barricade all of yourselves inside a room as you watch zombies destroy the door (but you can also 
 shoot through holes, which is really cool) . There are endless possibilities, and a game will never 
 be identical to another one.
  Versus modes pits 8 players, four survivors and 4 special infected, through the campaign levels, 
 while all the other normal infected attack them too. As you might have guessed, infected must kill 
 or prevent all of the survivors from escaping. It is really hard if you play against good infected 
 players, as they will attract hordes toward the survivors or incapacitate lonesome players, or 
 even divide the, to kill the more easily. The same can be said of a well coordinated survivor team. 
 Once a survivor team is killed, or if they clear the level, they will be awarded with points for 
 their performance, and now is the turn of the ones who were infected to clear that level with the 
 survivors, and the ones who cleared the level or got killed to play as the infected. Once a campaign 
 is completed, 5 levels, all the points are summed up and the winner team is decided. This mode 
 is highly entertaining to rest a little bit of the survivors and actually go an kill them. 
  The controls are pretty well tuned, both as survivors and infected. As a survivor you can also 
 melee attack infected to push them back, adding strategy when surrounded by large numbers, as you 
 prevent damage when they attack you. If you are incapacitated, zombies will not wait, they will 
 hit you while you are in the ground. This game has really to be experienced to know what I'm talking 
 about. I think everyone should give it a chance, I; m sure they will be surprised with what Left 
 4 Dead has to offer. As a bonus, there are achievements to unlock for the real hardcore, since 
 some of them are really hard to achieve: beating all 3 campaigns on expert, killing all 4 survivors 
 as a tank are just some of the examples, with a total of 59 achievements, that add a lot more to 
 the longevity of the game. If you are going to play online, and you must if you buy this game, 
 you should get a headset or at least a mic, since the talking makes the game a lot more immersive 
 as you scream for help from your teammates. Also, its importance to notice that the sound effects 
 and characters are likable, be it Bill, Zoey, Louis or Francis, and the source engine does a great 
 Job: visuals are impressive and physics really good, it also has motion blur for eye candy. Voice 
 acting and animation are quite impressive too. Depending on where you shoot them the zombies will 
 die or react in different ways, you can shoot their limbs off or make their head explode, which 
 also is reminiscent to the zombie culture from movies, like the 28 series or George Romero's films, 
 in which survivors also lock themselves in houses to defend themselves better form infected. All 
 in al, I can only say one more thing of this game:
  
  One of the best games of the Year!
  
  GO VALVE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hami619
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2008 6:58 am PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is a co-operative, survival horror, first-person shooter game by Turtle Rock Studios, 
 who were purchased by the Valve Corporation part way into development. The game uses the Source 
 game engine, and is available for Windows-based personal computers and the Xbox 360.
  
  The game pits four Survivors of an apocalyptic pandemic against hordes of aggressive "Infected" 
 (zombies) . There are two game modes: a four-player, co-op Campaign mode, and an eight-player Versus 
 mode. In both modes an AI, dubbed "The Director", controls level pacing and item spawns, in an 
 attempt to create a dynamic experience and increase replay value.
  
  The game went gold on November 13, 2008, and was released on November 18, 2008 in the United States; 
 and on November 21, 2008 in Europe to coincide with the tenth anniversary of the release of Half-Life. [1] [2] 
 A five-minute trailer was released on Halloween. [3] A playable demo was made available on November 
 6 for pre-purchasers and on November 11 for the general public, and was closed on November 18, 
 2008. The demo contained the majority of the first two chapters in the "No Mercy" campaign, and 
 was playable in both single and multi-player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramses48
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 14, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is a title which was obviously made for those who enjoy multiplayer gaming over lone 
 playing.
  It's main campaign is short, possibly around 5 hours long, so for those looking for an indepth 
 experience would do better elsewhere.
  
  The gameplay is based on a run-and-gun system - little thought is involved in getting from point 
 A to Point B. Simply follow the path and kill everything in the way. It bears similarities to mulitplayer 
 maestro Unreal Tournament - more effort was put into multiplayer, and this is where the real fun 
 lies.
  
  Graphically, the visuals are relatively simple, but one gets the impression that more isn't needed. 
 They don't detract from the experience, and it is clear that they aren't the focus of the game. 
 Think Counterstrike: Source - good graphics for that day, but somewhat dated.
  
  Overall, the game would be best for multiplayer audiences. The gameplay is meant to be fun, not 
 deep, and there is very little story or plot involved. A simple, run-and-gun game to the likes 
 of Unreal Tournament.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: recvx_freak
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  when i got the game and saw the intro, i was so hyped that i'm finally gonna play a good zombie 
 game after years you know after resident evil code veronica. but as i played on i found out that 
 this game is based all on action. after the intro movie i was expecting a great storyline but that 
 never even started. at first i liked the game a lot even played it for 2 days straight but now. 
 now ive had enough. tried to play it but its so boring now.
  perhaps it will be more fun at the gaming cafe...
  but still the game looks unfinished
  few 
 campaigns and hand full of weapons and even the enemies have less variety.
  So i hope they make a expansion pack that gives you more missions, maps, enemies and a storyline..
 
  if anyone knows a good zombie game then let me know apart from silent hill. only its first part 
 was good rest of them are all crappy. 3rd was good though.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reeal
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2008 12:34 am PT
Review:  The game starts you off in a world full of zombies along side with your three other buddies. The 
 good side is that these "buddies" could be online users, but playing with friends are always the 
 best way to enjoy the game. On the other hand if they are Npc they really take away all the fun 
 Left 4 Dead really has to offer. 
  
  The Story? Well the story isn't really that much of a story. There are four places for campaign 
 each with different style of place. For example is in the sewer or in a farm. Simply it's just 
 pick up a gun shot go to this point shot and don't die... oh yeah. Also the ending part where you 
 have to survive for a set amount of time. This may seems boring but in fact it the random zombie 
 spawn and people you play with is really worth replaying. 
  
  GUNS! Who doesn't like that! It's pretty standard no custom, just sub-mg, hunting rifle, assault 
 rifle, shotgun, and pistol.
  
  In all the game is great (socially) and the graphic is above average but the "story" could be more 
 deeper and offer more. Maybe in the future mods would come. Did i mention you could be a zombie 
 too? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: owen123454321
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  Now , i'm not a total stranger to the STEAM corporation as i have already bought about 4 of their 
 games before , and i have to say , Left 4 Dead is my favorite game. I find it more stimulating than 
 Half Life 2.
  
  Left for dead is a new multi player game that requires you and you 3 friends to stick together 
 to survive , or else a BOSS INFECTED will kill you. You are probably going to think that this is 
 just another one of those boring zombie killing games that only have 3 different maps and all of 
 the zombies look the same , well let me tell you , your cannot be more wrong.
  
  The aim of the game is to get to a SAFE HOUSE , which is a place where zombies , or infected , 
 can't get you. And along the way you will find weapons , drugs and health. Oh and many , many zombies. You 
 can hold a few things on your back , which raises the question, how can you run so fast?
  
  You can hold up to 2 pistols , 1 other gun (rifle , auto-shotgun etc.) , 1 medi-kit , 1 pipe bomb 
 OR Molotov and 1 bottle of aspirin (or whatever it is) .
  
  You might think that grabbing a rifle and then running around , mowing down all the infected , 
 ALONE , is a good idea , you are wrong. There are these things called Boss Infected and they are 
 not like their predecessors, they are smart bits of hardware stuff that encourage you to stick 
 together , all 4 of you. Mostly because of Hunters and Smokers. They are EVIL. If you get caught by 
 either , you cannot escape , someone has to save YOU.
  
  On an ending note, I would buy this , its a great game with or without online friends (or just 
 random people) because of the super-smart AI , and because its a great game. Its well made and worth 
 all 25 I spent on it. BUY IT NOW! IF YOU WANT TO TEAM UP WITH ONLINE PLAYERS (or AI) AND KILL SOME 
 ZOMBIES. (and then get complete all 20 levels and get all 51 awards)
  thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: l_eeburgess
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  Been playing this game now, not long admittedly, but love it already.
  It runs amazing as all Source engine games do, max settings at probably over 60fps at all times. 
 An example of how coding can be done which other software producers should take notice of.
  The graphics are great, especially wandering through pitch dark corridors/tunnels with your flashlight 
 illuminating the way, very atmospheric.
  The sound too, you can hear the swarms of zombies grunting and screaming, getting louder as they 
 approach, it all adds to the atmosphere.
  The zombies attack in hordes and quickly start to overwhelm turning it into a mad scramble for 
 survival, truly insane when it all kicks off.
  online mode is where its at in this game, team up with your friends or play with others. Its so 
 easy and quick to start or join an online game you can be online as soon as the game starts.
  i just love online co-op games, and this along with call of duty world at war and GTA4 all feature 
 this and so I'm glad to see programmers are including this feature in new games.
  One neat feature this game has is that you can take a break simply by either leaving your character 
 standing for a little while, or pausing and selecting take a break. the computer then controls 
 your character in the game, you then press the left mouse button when you want to rejoin. A great 
 idea that will hopefully be used in more titles in future.
  My only problem now is that I have too many games to play as they all have come out around the 
 same times. A far cry from PC gaming over the past 12months, which has been devoid of many big 
 releases. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotbodyboy_2006
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 12, 2008 2:54 am PT
Review:  I am a Hardcore fan of Valve and played all their games. Half Life is easily the Best Franchise 
 of Valve and one of the Greatest Games To Be Ever Made. So obviously it will be very unfair if 
 i first up begin comparing this game to Half Life 2.
  
  So lets see. I began this game obviously with Ok Expectations and they were all met.
  
  This 
 game is basically a Counter Strike Source game with Zombies.
  
  The intro video starts of Very well. Impressive. Basically there are a Group of 4 guys..... cough.....3 
 guys and one HOT Girl to be specific.
  
  You get to choose any one of them. Pretty similar to Far Cry 2. The Start only.
  
  Story:
 
  
  Story revolves around making 4 MOVIES??? Yeah...... You are a part of every movie and all you have 
 to do is complete the Movie.
  
  Don't be startled. Movie here simply means Stages. L4D just tried to be Different from its Mammoth 
 Forefather Half Life 2.
  
  And it succeeds. The interface is Typically Valve and is really cool.
  
  Don't expect anything 
 much from the story. This game is purely 8.5 only for its gameplay. You basically have to take 
 out HORDES of Zombies. The same ones come in every movie so it gets Boring.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Yeah, gameplay is pretty much superb. After playing games like COD 4 and Far Cry 2 i was so 
 much used to that CRAP Aiming System of holding right click and Aim.
  
  Half Life aiming is one of the Best Ever and Counter Strike simply proves it. L4D implements the 
 same aiming system. But thanks to those two games i was initially having difficulty aiming as i 
 was pressing Right Click lol! And right click in this game means to hit with your Gun.
  
  As specified above you have to take out HORDES of Zombies. There are no Bosses in particular but 
 there are 5 Main Types of Zombies that require some Special Skills to hit and they come from Nowhere. 
 Worst part is they may even be hidden in the Hordes.
  
  The normal Zombies take One Hit to get killed and its really FUN to watch their Heads and other 
 parts splatter. Valve have really done a great job in making the gore Better than Half Life 2 and 
 Episodes. Ofcourse those weren't supposed to be Gore Games.
  
  Anyways the 5 Main Type of Zombies or Zombie Bosses:
  
  1) Hunter (Altair Zombie) - ALTAIR????? 
 You gotta be kidding me. Now seriously Altair has started coming in each and every game. The character 
 and the game that i and quite a lot of others hate won't leave you. You must be wondering wtf did 
 Altair come from? Yeah this guy Hunter is nothing like the Hunter of Half Life 2 Episode 2. This 
 guy has a hood and looks EXACTLY like Altair. Thank God for not giving him that Hidden Blade.
 
  
  Anyways the Altair Zombie Shrieks thus giving you warning. Then he LEAPS over you exactly like 
 Altair does and starts Punching like Crazy and this immediately starts Lowering your Health. The 
 best way to counter this guy is to run when you hear the Shriek. 
  If your Team Mate is attacked by Altair, you will be warned in the game and just shoot at him like 
 CRAZY else your friend will die. Overall Easy Enemy to beat down. Don't worry, he is easy to beat 
 like Altair.
  
  2) Smoker - Seriously, now valve have got all the names wrong here. This guy's named Smoker but 
 he does a Scorpion "Get Over Here" kind of thing and lets his Barnacles loose to Entangle you an 
 drag you towards him. Yeah yeah, when you shoot him there is smoke all over and you all Cough. 
 Its pretty funny and Humorous moment to experience.
  
  3) Witch - Holy shhhh! She will be sitting as if she is drugged. Don't let her looks fool you. 
 The best suggestion i would give is not to go even near her (Forget Shooting) . But if you have a 
 Sniper or a Maverick take her down from very Far........ read..... Very Far.
  
  Because as soon as she gets Startled, she unleashes the Rage Of Titans or whatever and with her 
 ONE SHOT you health goes down to 1. And somebody will have to come and get you up.
  
  4) Boomer - This guy is VERY VERY Fat. He is Harmless. But if near you and you Shoot him, his GUTS 
 Explode and all his Stinky Green Garbage comes over you and gets into your eyes and mouth. So you 
 are partially Blinded for a few seconds. A very Cool effect to Experience.
  
  5) Tank - The TOUGHEST of all bosses. You all have to together take this guy out. He has huge health 
 and huge Damage. One shot will reduce 1/3rd of your Health.
  
  So these are the bosses. Yeah the GUNS are prey badass but very Few. Pistol, Shotgun, Maverick, 
 SMG is all you get. The Molotov and grenade simply own the Molotovs & Grenades of Call Of Duty 
 4 which itself gives us a preview of what HALF LIFE 3 (Not Episode 3) will be like.
  
  You have a Medikit. As soon as you start healing yourself it turns in Third Person mode and looks 
 cool. You also have Pain Killers. You can also heal your Friend (Team Mate) . I loved healing the 
 girl Zoey as she is really Hot.
  
  That pretty much sums up the ENTIRE Gameplay. Yes i have said everything that you can expect. So 
 you can be well prepared when you play the game keeping your expectations not so high.
  
  I have not yet played the multiplayer. That's what is the Highlight of this game i believe. You 
 can also play as a Zombie i heard. So if you have LAN, you surely have to get this game as it will 
 be as fun as Counter Strike Source as this is nothing but Counter Strike with Zombies.
  
  Overall, Left 4 Dead is an AMAZING Game. Its very Enjoyable and it even goes on to be INTENSE. 
 Hordes of Zombies come from nowhere. You gotta constantly Stay On Your Toes.
  
  L 4 D is easily the BEST Zombie Game Ever Made. If you want to play a game with a Solid Story, 
 Gameplay and others then this game is NOT for you. But if you want to have Pure Fun then surely 
 get this game.............. runs smoothly in FULL Settings.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chikong87
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2008 3:26 am PT
Review:  It is excited so much to hunt zombies. The story were talking bout 4 person, 3 men and 1 women. 
 Each of us will holding a gun (of course) . All we have to do is to find the safehouse and eliminate 
 any zombie. Ready to pump-off Ur adrenaline and play it in high quality sound. Hehehe. Welcome 
 to the dead-city and hunt the deads, probably they're not really dead yet.
  
  The bad news is,, they're only 20 level to be played. 4 campaign with 5 stages. Each campaign has 
 the same objectives, come to the rendevious point where there's a help come to pick you up. Second, 
 the weapons 're few. Well, we're talking bout surviving from zombies not war, so don't expect more 
 bout any kind of weapon. 
  
  Palying alone is ... a lil' bit bored, coz we're playing with AI. In Expert mode, AI won't help 
 much, is like U fight the zombie by Ur own. So sad.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostownguru
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2008 6:51 am PT
Review:  I started playing this game on normal to learn the maps. Played for 15 mins and had to move the 
 level to advanced. Played advance for a day and completed the game. Boy was it fun. But before 
 I knew it, it was all over and so on to expert. Expert is just right for me, but now I want new 
 maps because 4 maps are not enough. There should be around 8 maps but at least 5. That would be 
 a reasonable number of maps. Only 4 maps is kinda cheating us. I say there should be 5 maps since 
 I coughed up $50 bucks, that would be $10 per map. Other than the game being too short, I really 
 like it and would recommend it to friends. The A. I. is as dumb as they come and there probably 
 should be a way to call everyone to regroup or run like hell like they have in the intro. If there 
 were more maps this game would be an easy 10. It has been a long time since I had a game that I 
 could only play for a few minutes and felt like I had fun in only 1 hour. For those on the fence 
 about this one, I say get it, you will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pedramstalker
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 1:16 am PT
Review:  this is a new idea for multiplayers game
  
  
  
  
  
  Two key things will undoubtedly run through your mind as you play Valve's first-person survivors-versus-zombies 
 shooter Left 4 Dead: the phrase "oh, s***!" repeated ad nauseam in response to a stressful turn 
 of events, and the phrase "goddamn sadistic Director system" after either surviving or failing 
 that stressful turn. 
  The Director system in question is what makes L4D so special, although a lot of things make the 
 game pretty damn good already. Its subtle yet pure focus on co-op play (don't expect dorky gimmick 
 maneuvers like having one guy hold the gun while another pulls the trigger; L4D simply demands 
 basic teamwork for any chance of survival) , its satisfying gunplay, its deliberate B-movie tone, 
 its surprisingly good single-player A. I. (it's no real substitute for multiplayer, but, yes, you 
 can play this game alone and have fun) , and its focused and interesting array of Infected (the 
 game's technically not about undead zombies, but rather, a weird form of superrabies that infects 
 most of the planet) . In short, it's what you expect from a Valve shooter: a refined, well-crafted 
 event. Yet what makes L4D so much more interesting is the aforementioned A. I. Director -- a character 
 in its own right. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: canderson85
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  AWsome multiplayer game, anything bad in reviews is usually A. Content, b. lacking single player
 
  
  I think both of those complaints are unfounded, as there is more content to come, and the maps 
 that are there ellipse most other multiplayer games. Complaining about the single player not being 
 as fun is like complaining that Counter-Strike sucking when you play with a bunch of Bots. Great 
 game, worthy of a buy as it will be a multiplayer game that you will come back to again and again.. 
 and again.
  
  I cannot comment on the 360 version, but I imagine it is of similar quality., although, I couldn't 
 imagine playing with a 360 controller, as this game requires fast, precision shooting in all directions. 
 I could see the limits of the analog control making this game MUCH more difficult to complete 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monco59
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  
  Gameplay - 9.5
  Visuals - 9
  Audio - 9.5
  Singleplayer/Multiplayer - 10
  Chin Factor - 10
  
  TrueScore - 9.6
  
  "Every bit as fun as a real zombie apocalypse and 
 twice as safe!"
  
  If you're anything like me (and judging by the sales of books like World War Z and The Zombie Survival 
 Guide, you are) , you spend a good portion of each and every day wondering what a zombie outbreak 
 might be like, and most importantly, how to survive it. Now that Left 4 Dead has hit shelves, we 
 no longer need to wonder.
  
  The game picks up two weeks after the first infection, conveniently by-passing such tedious genre 
 conventions like where the plague originated from and how. Let's face it, the only thing people 
 want to know about zombies is how to kill them. This isn't a slight against the game by any means 
 though, since it features a surprisingly strong cast for a multiplayer game, something most of 
 us are not accustomed to. Instead of generic soldiers or aliens from the future, in Left 4 Dead 
 you control a group of four unlikely heroes, thrust into the zombie apocalypse from all walks of 
 life. Zoey, the lone female of the group is a college student and horror movie aficionado and is 
 as quick with her tongue as she is with a gun. Francis, the no-nonsense biker thinks himself to 
 be indestructible and acts accordingly. Then you have Louis, a former Junior Systems Analyst just 
 looking to survive and Bill, a gruff and grizzled vet with two tours in 'Nam under his belt and 
 a new enemy to fight. Even though there is little real story in L4D, events and backstories materialize 
 through the brilliant and often humorous dialogue characters have with each other. Literally hundreds 
 of lines of dialogue was recorded simply for this purpose. That's dedication you can only find 
 in a Valve game.
  
  With so much talking going on, it's a good thing the voice actors are on top of their game. Everyone 
 comes off realistically, nailing their prospective characters. Louis always has a nervous edge 
 in his voice, typical of white-collar cubicle-lemmings on the edge. Bill has a nihilistic world 
 view and a touch of fatalism in him, while at the same time clearly enjoying his one last chance 
 of experiencing the thrill of combat. You get to learn all these quirks and qualities the characters 
 possess simply by playing online with others and keeping your ears open.
  
  Like most games, Left 4 Dead is split into two main parts; singleplayer and multiplayer. Singleplayer 
 is just you with three bots against the usual zombie horde. While the bots are entirely capable 
 buddies in combat, what is missing most is that indiscribable human factor. Even if you don't communicate 
 with your fellow team members at all during the game, it's still much more rewarding knowing these 
 are real flesh and blood people you're playing with. It imbues the experience with that ever-important 
 feeling of camaraderie and playful one-upmanship. Keeping that in mind, it's best to use the singleplayer 
 portion strictly as a learning grounds, getting to know the controls and layout of the various 
 maps. After you feel suitably accustomed to the proceedings, jump straight into multiplayer (for 
 a more thrilling and ultimately rewarding experience, I recommend going for Advanced or Expert 
 difficulty straight from the bat) and discard the singleplayer altogether. That is, unless you're 
 a sucker for easy achievements.
  
  Multiplayer is where the real fun is and it too is split into two sub-parts. You've got the Campaign 
 mode, which is essentially the main mode and has you and three others fight through four different 
 scenarios, each containing five maps. This is easily the best part about the game, as the scenarios 
 play out like old-fashioned horror movies, with names like Dead Air and Blood Harvest. The campaigns 
 run the gamut from a downtown metropolis and hospital to small town America and beyond. As a great 
 touch, once you finish a certain scenario, it will be dedicated to any players unlucky enough to 
 succumb to the horde, after which the end credits roll that let you know how each player stacks 
 up in his performance. At the very end you even get a "this many zombies were killed in the making 
 of this movie"-counter.
  
  Each map is carefully crafted and oozing with atmosphere. You'll often run into writing scribbled 
 on walls by previous refugees, be they helpful notes and warnings or apocalyptic messages of doom. 
 The flow of gameplay is smooth and despite a few divergent paths, every level is easy enough to 
 navigate that even first-timers are able to take the lead without fear of leading everyone down 
 a dead end. There is a common formula for every campaign which has you advancing along the path 
 trying to reach safe houses at the end of every level, where you can stock up on ammo, upgrade 
 your arsenal and heal up. After getting to the end of the final evel, you're tasked with holding 
 a certain position (like an abandoned house or airport runway) against an unrelenting zombie horde 
 that comes a-runnin', no doubt smelling the free meal. These last stands are among the tensest 
 moments in all of gaming, with players dashing to and fro, trying to stop a tidal wave of dead 
 flesh pouring in from every door and window. Needless to say, these moments are also among the 
 toughest, requiring the very best of each and every player in order to make it through.
  
  While that formula may not sound terribly thrilling when keeping in mind that there are only four 
 scenarios to choose from and you'll be running through each multiple times, what really gives the 
 game replay values is a system Valve has dubbed the AI Director. The Director is an adaptive presence 
 that changes up the locations of health packs and ammo as well as the spawn locations of the infected 
 and their numbers. What was a hotly contested battleground in one playthrough may be just another 
 abandoned parking lot in another. Do well and the director will increase the heat by sending in 
 more undead. But if you and your team are struggling, the Director will ease off, spawning fewer 
 zombies and doling out ammo and health accordingly. This, accompanied by the always unpredictable 
 human factor makes each and every play session different from the last and quarantees you'll be 
 having a great time with the game no matter how many times you've beat each scenario. That being 
 said, a few new scenarios wouldn't hurt and judging by Valve's terrific post-launch support of 
 their previous games, we can expect just that.
  
  The other portion of multiplayer is called Versus Mode. This is where up to four Survivors square 
 off against four Infected (in addition to the regular AI-controlled zombies) , each controlled by 
 a player. Versus Mode flips the gameplay on it's head, creating a more fast and competitive setting. 
 Both teams take turns playing as the Survivors and the Infected. The game scores you on how far 
 your team of Survivors gets (if a team gets to the very end, it's an automatic win) , along with 
 various multipliers tied to difficulty level and number of Infected killed. The Infected need to 
 stop the Survivors as quickly as possible and to do that each player is randomly assigned one of 
 the four "boss zombies" from the Campaign mode to play as. Hunters are quick and agile zombies 
 that stalk in the shadows and pounce on Survivors, clawing their guts out. Boomers are corpulent 
 zombies that specialize in vomiting green bile on Survivors, thus sending the AI directed horde 
 mad and blindly attacking any Survivor sprayed with the ejected substance. Smokers are tall and 
 lanky zombies that can grab and drag Survivors great distances with their tongues. Finally, the 
 tank is a hulking behemoth with an incredible amount of health, who is free to wreak havoc among 
 the Survivors with his immense strength. There is also the Witch, a female zombie that can kill 
 in one swipe (at Expert difficulty) , but she is not playable in Versus Mode.
  
  Even though the thought of playing as zombies is enticing, Versus Mode is not as fun as the Campaign 
 mode. Sure, playing as a zombie is great fun and demands an entirely different approach to the 
 maps and teamwork but the fact that two teams are competing against each other means it's also 
 a very hostile and demanding experience. Whereas Campaign mode is usually a lot of fun for all 
 players, Versus Mode can quickly turn into your typical online shooter game with profanities and 
 expletives flying about. It's also missing that tense feeling you only get by having four people 
 fight through a succession of increasingly hard scenarios as a team, not worried by points or looking 
 good. Also, Versus Mode is only playable on two scenarios (No Mercy and Blood Harvest) , making 
 it more of a fun distraction in-between more serious bouts of Campaign sessions.
  
  The single greatest strength Left 4 Dead has going for it is it's simple yet deep gameplay system. 
 Unlike any other online game before it, Left 4 Dead is built entirely on top of a foundation of 
 teamwork and the game is not shy of letting you know this. Every aspect of the game drives this 
 "No I in Team" -mentality into you from the get-go. Thanks to some simple inventions, like a conxtext 
 sensitive button that handles everything from helping up downed buddies to manipulating levers 
 and doors means you're never in the dark about what button to press or what to do. Even though 
 you have some radio commands to communicate with others, the dialogue is automated to the extent 
 that you don't even need a microphone to enjoy the game fully and engage in some tactical planning. 
 The entire system is easy to get into, yet delivers hours upon hours of deep and satisfying content. 
 And unlike most multiplayer shooters, L4D doesn't rely on nor need any Patton-grade planning between 
 players before they're ready to jump in. Just put four people together and they'll set off, helping 
 each other on the way and coming up with fire teams and squad compositions on the fly. Naturally, 
 having four players with mics makes everything that much more easy and co-operative.
  
  Previously I touched upon the game's voice acting, which is top notch. Despite some good but fairly 
 generic weapon sounds, that same quality carries over to the atmospheric sounds themselves. All 
 of the Infected growl and scream in disheartening gibberish, whilst the four bosses all have their 
 own, unique vocal signs. For example, the Hunter growls and roars like a rabid dog, whilst the 
 Boomer is always belching and otherwise sounding like a wet sponge. The music is great but extremely 
 scarce, which is exactly what the developer intended. The sound world concists mainly of an ominous 
 silence, pierced every now and then by various background sounds like birds flying off hurriedly 
 or animals squealing in the distance. Along with the suitably drab and oppressive color palette, 
 this is what really helps set the ambience and creates tension.
  
  Left 4 Dead is built using Valve's Source engine, which is 5 years old as of now, a true relic 
 in industry standards. And indeed, while the game is not technically impressive and the color scheme 
 is a bit on the dark side, the game is very pleasing on the eyes and runs extremely well even on 
 older machines. Animations are top-notch, with a number of inventive and cool death throes for 
 the zombie hordes. Character models are also extremely detailed and feature Valve's trademark immersive 
 facial animations that convey a myriad of emotions and feelings. The lighting builds on top of 
 the great system introduced in Episode 2 and is one of the highlights of the game, graphically. 
 Moving through dark corridors and cornfields is made that much more scary thanks to some terrific 
 silhouettes and shadows. Like most games using Source though, the textures can be a bit muddy at 
 times, though never to the point of becoming a distraction.
  
  As it stands, Left 4 Dead has few real faults, if any. It's gameplay is typical Valve, which is 
 to say it's been polished to a glimmering sheen. No other game before this one has captured the 
 teamplay aspect quite like Left 4 Dead, resulting in an absolutely thrilling and utterly fun experience, 
 whether you're playing with friends or strangers. It's easy to get into and gets more rewarding 
 the deeper you go. And while Left 4 Dead certainly isn't a long game any way you look at it, it 
 has replay value far surpassing that of any game I have ever seen. Like Portal before it, Valve 
 has another winner on it's hands with Left 4 Dead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simonsworld
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2008 4:43 am PT
Review:  Get it, its great, valve are great shooting zombies is great, and story is great so yea great buy 
 it 
  
  Gameplay :10
  Visuals:9
  Presentation:8
  Multiplayer:8
  Lifespan:9 
  
  So overall about 9 etc
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The end........... "0
  
  "Zzz ZZz zZZ zz ZZZ zzZz zZ Zz Zzz ZZZ zZ ZzzZ zZZ zz ZZz Zz ZzZ zzZ Zz zZZ zZ ZZZ zzz Z zzz ZZz 
 zZz Zz zzZ Zzz zZ Z ZZz zz ZZ zz zZz z Zz zZZ zZ zZz ZzZ zz Zzz Zzz ZZz zZZ ZZ Zzz zZ ZzZ Zzz ZZz 
 Zz Zz Zz ZZ z ZZ zZ ZzZ zZz zz zZz Z ZzZ z Zz zz ZZ zZ zzz ZZ Zz ZzZ Zz ZZzzshow biz is for squares......" 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyeShatteredSky
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 8, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  I have yet to do this game on the singler player setting, but for good reason: the multiplayer 
 is an etremely fast-paced thrill ride that will have you on the edge of your seat until the very 
 end. Yes the campaigns are short, but each one will have you gunning down a ridiculous number of 
 undead foes from the second you begin, that replaying each of the 4 campaigns is a real treat! 
 Thanks to the random layout of the zombies, each playthrough will keep you on your toes and provide 
 some unpredictable and intense encounters. This makes teamwork all the more fun and really adds 
 to the overall gameplay. 
  
  Graphics, while not amazing, are still generally good and the fact that the game can have dozens 
 upon dozens of zombies on screen at once with minimal slowdown, makes you forgive a few of the 
 muddy textures sprinkled about here and there.
  
  As for the sound, it can only be explained in one word: EXCELLENT! The echoing growls of the undead, 
 the booming sounds of your weapons and the constant speech between your partners, make this an 
 all around spectacular sounding game!
  
  Overall, I'd say give this one a shot. It'll keep you running and gunning for months to come!
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: knowltz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  After hearing much buzz around this game, and being pleasantly surprised with Dead Space, i thought 
 I would give another Horror-FPS a try. Being somewhat of a zombie FPS fan from the days of Resident 
 Evil, I was really kind of excited to play this game. After about 30min of game play I almost had 
 enough, the movement in this game felt horribly fast and unrealistic (maybe that was the point, 
 I don't know) . And also very repetitive with rooms with seemingly never ending zombies running 
 at you, and you just mow them down with a weapon of your choice over and over again. Yes their 
 are some bland story lines, and the graphics are mediocre at best for today's high end machines, 
 but lacks game play depth. So if all your looking for is zombie shooting, then you will get this 
 and some more, but if you are looking for a great game, do not get Left 4 Dead. As a colleague 
 of mine said, I would not trust any game with a "4" in it's title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shelledfade1
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2008 3:14 am PT
Review:  Great sound quality, great graphics quality that plays on multiple setups.
  
  Fantastic zombie game. 4 player co-op and 8 player versus (with AI controlled hordes of zombies 
 also in versus) .
  
  Awesome game if you want to survive different locations with hordes of zombies and special mutated 
 zombies with special abilities that try to take you out occasionally. 
  
  Only drawback of the game... Not enough levels! There are 4 locations to choose from starting from. 
 
  
  In each location are 5 different levels to get through to the end.
  
  They are masterfully done and every level is a place you dream about running through if a zombie 
 apocalypse ever happened, that's really the only way I can describe the design of them. Very well 
 done. The only drawback I have... I NEED MORE LEVELS LOL! This game is just too much fun for such 
 a short amount of levels, the levels are replayable and enjoyable time and time again. But after 
 awhile... you just want more awesome looking levels. That's basically why I'm giving it a 9.0 instead 
 of a 10. I just wish there were more levels. 
  
  If you want a good zombie game, this is the one my friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2008 11:05 pm PT
Review:  Valve seems to have a ridiculously long streak of ridiculously good games; Half Life 1-2.2, Portal, 
 TF1/2, etc. That is why this game surprised me. It wasn't the gleaming pot of jewel-encrusted platinum 
 that Valve usually produces, but a slightly more opaque crystal-encrusted gold filled pot.
  
  Now don't get me wrong. It's a good game. A very good game. However as I played through the 
 cinematic sequences that were the levels I couldn't help but feel a certain repetition. As if I 
 was doing the same thing, over and over. Sure the environment was different, but it was essentially 
 the same thing:
  Start off, fight off zombies, find occasional mutated zombie, flick switch, fight off zombies, 
 fight off tank and then finally: do all of those at the same time. 
  And then there are the weapons. 6 weapons Valve? 6 Weapons is the best you could do? Two types 
 of shotgun, pistols, uzi, rifle and hunting rifle. Oh yes, and then theres the ridiculously over-powered 
 pipebomb, that attracts the zombies like a hundred alcoholics to a bottle of whisky, and then brutally 
 blows them up in a shower of gore, which admittedly is very cool.
  Nevertheless, the worst thing about the game is that it has no ending, though it might mean there 
 will be patches with more levels.
  
  But enough about the bad things, lets talk about the good things. With the dynamic lighting and 
 the zombie dismemberment, It really makes you feel like your in a movie.
  The best thing of all is the Versus mode. Pure genius. Getting together with your friends to either 
 fend-off, or help the zombie apocalypse is chaotic and fun. So I think that the co-op and versus 
 modes are the two main features of this game, and you definately should miss out on them. 
  
  In conclusion, only buy this game if you have constant access to internet. If you do then, 
 What are you still doing here? You should be playing L4D? 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bort44
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Im 29 years old and I gotta tell you that I have never had this much fun pllaying a game. Playing 
 online with other people is freaking awesome. You will not get tired of blowing zombies heads off 
 with the shotgun, blood splatters everywhere. I laugh everytime I play it. One of the best things 
 about this game is the shear panic you feel when a horde of 200 zombies is sprinting at you and 
 you just have to unload all your ammo right into the pack. Hopefully they will come out with a 
 sequel. The only thing that keeps this game from getting a 10 is that it is a little too short 
 when you play a campaign. This is a perfect thing to come home to and play after a stressfull day 
 of work, just start spraying buckshot into the horde of zombies, simply awesome. If you like simple 
 first person shooters, then this a must game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r4v3gl0ry
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is a zombie co-op shooter that can be played with bots offline or online with actual 
 players. While it doesn't offer a whole lot of content, it does a wonderful job of keeping things 
 fresh. 
  
  Your job as a team of four survivors is basically to survive against hordes of "infected," which 
 are spawned by the AI Director, which is a highly acclaimed AI system that spawns enemies in certain 
 locations depending on the survivors' health, amount of ammo left, and so on. It keeps things fresh 
 and different every time you play, so don't expect to win each time with the same strategy. Also, 
 don't expect weapons and ammo to be at particular spots each time you play.
  
  You move from one "safe" house to another. There are four campaigns, or "movies," as Valve likes 
 to call them. In each campaign, there are around 4 to 5 levels. Each level begins in a safehouse 
 you had previously made it to and it ends with the safe house you're supposed to travel to. The 
 last level of a campaign is called the Finale of the campaign, and it involves calling a rescue 
 vehicle. 
  
  There will be times where you don't face many zombies. There will be times where you will be swarmed 
 by legions of them. If you lose all of your HP, you will be incapacitated, which means you will 
 be down on the ground waiting for another surivor to revive you. You will gain some temporary HP, 
 which will slowly bleed out as you're waiting to be revived. You can heal yourself at any time 
 with health packs, or you could pain pills to temporarily boost your HP. If you are incapped two 
 times, you will have one last chance to survive. Upon losing your HP for the third time, death 
 will be imminent, and there will be no bleeding out.
  
  You will simply die, and you will respawn in a closet somewhere in the level, where your teammates 
 can save you. 
  
  The weapons you get will involve a first tier and a second tier. The first tier involves pistols 
 (which have unlimited ammo) , a standard SMG, and a pump shotgun. he second tier represents the 
 strongest of the firearms, and they include the M16, a scoped hunting rifle, and an auto shotgun. 
 There is sort of another tier, but that includes the mounted mini gun you will find in a finale 
 and grenades. By grenades, I mean molotov cocktails and pipe bombs, which attracts all of the zombies 
 in a particular area and blows them up. 
  
  And aside from having your regular zombie that runs really fast and tries to melee you to death 
 with his hands and feets, there are the occasional boss zombies. The Boomer vomits a type of slime 
 that attracts hordes of zombies to the victim. The Hunter crouches, and pounces long distances 
 on survivors. When he is on top of you, tearing away at your flesh, you will be completely helpless. 
 Only your teammates will be able to shoot or melee him off. There is the Smoker, who contricts 
 you with his loooooong tongueand drags you until you're in front of him, at which pint he will 
 melee you to death. You will also be helpless in this scenario, and your friends will have to kill 
 him for you.
  
  Then, of course, there are the two most feared bosses. The first one is the witch, a teenage girl 
 who has been infected, who spends her time on the floor crying. You will be able to recognize the 
 crying from a mile away. Your best bet will be to leave her alone. Don't shine your flashlights 
 in front of her or do anything stupid around her or she will incap you in one hit. 
  
  The second most feared boss is the Tank. I don't have to really explain this one too much. He's 
 pretty much the strongest, biggest, baddest, and most resilient of them all. He can flip cars, 
 and he can perfrom Falcon Punches, which will send you flying far into the distance. You can recognize 
 him when the ground starts to shake and you hear dramatic background music.
  
  The last thing I want to talk about before giving you my two cents on the replayability of the 
 game and how nice it looks is the versus mode. It's pretty much the mode where eight players take 
 turns in each campaign to play as infected bosses and survivors. It is the only mode where competition 
 between the players is welcome. It sounds pretty easy, but it takes much skill to play well as 
 the bosses, since they have less HP than the survivors. 
  
  It is essentially the same as the campaign mode for the survivors. They have to survive the levels 
 by fighting against the zombies and the infected players, who are trying to prevent them from surviving. 
 Like I said, it sounds fun and all, but it can be quite imbalanced.
  
  For example, it is known that the AI director can't keep up with surivors who rush in Versus mode. 
 In the campaign mode, the bosses play a big role in stopping the survivors, whereas in the versus 
 mode, its much harder for the infected players to time their spawns and attacks in certain areas 
 when the survivors are moving unbelievable fast (you can't spawn too close to them) . This causes 
 two problems. The first one is that the survivors who are smart enough to go at a steadier pace 
 will be left without the rushing players, which will divide them, causing defeat. The second one 
 is that the infected players can also be at a disadvantage, since keeping up with the survivors 
 will be so hard.
  
  On top of that, only two levels can be played in Versus.
  
  Now comes the smaller things I wanna talk about. 
  
  Pros:
  --Great music that never really 
 gets old. There's this creepy choir that sings when you approach a witch, and theres music for 
 when the swarms come.
  --The visuals still look nice and fresh, even though the Source Engine is dated. Trust me, they're 
 good.
  --Nice level designs, Valve and Turtle Rock. The levels are long and very believable. They provide 
 for exciting points in the game.
  --Four difficulty settings, which is standard, but a must for hardcore gamers and casual ones alike.
 
  --Lots of room for custom made campaigns, skins, mods, etc.
  
  Cons:
  --There are only four campaigns and a versus mode. It keeps you coming back for more, and you don't 
 necessarily have to play versus, but it could've done with more campaigns.
  --There is no default server browser. There's a lobby system now, so you might wind up joining 
 a server with high ping without knowing it.
  --There are several server and matchmaking issues. The dedicated servers tend to be a bit laggy, 
 and sometimes, game leaders won't even be able to connect to a dedicated server. Pathes have been 
 released, but these problems haven't been fixed, even though Valve says they have been.
  
  It's a lot of fun playing through the levels, surviving and trying to stop people from surviving. 
 The tension and the challenge of the game makes it worthwhile to play, as well as the great AI. 
 I recommend this game to everyone and anyone who likes multiplayer games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffreykretzler
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  The opening sequence starts off two weeks after first infection. 
  You don't know how the four playable characters met, you don't know how they solely survived the 
 infection, but the game play isn't much about how or why... it's just to survive.
  If you make it out of the city alive
  
  There are 4 different "paths" to chose
  The fist 
 one is based on the city and opening sequence
  Make it to the helicopter on top of Mercy Hospital to win
  
  The second is, make it to the 
 airport and catch the last ride out
  
  The third make it to the boat to escape the woods 
  
  And last but not least you must hold 
 yourself up in a farmhouse in the center of a cornfield and wait for the military to come get you
 
  
  Each one has its set of challenges 
  Beware of the "super" zombies there are 5 of these they make the game very interesting
  
  The 
 first is the Smoker; he will grab you from far distances with his lizard like tongue and pull you 
 to your doom, unless your friends help. He will then explode into a smoky green cloud when you 
 shoot him
  
  The second more annoying than dangerous is called the boomer
  He will puke or explode on you attracting a swarm of infected while you can't see 
  
  The third 
 fastest and dangerous is the hunter, 
  Wears a blue hoodie and can leap onto you from very far then tears you apart slash by slash. Don't 
 be separated from your team when you meet one
  
  The fourth is the witch, she sounds like an innocent little girl crying a sad sad sound. But really 
 she is complete evil and will rip you apart if you disturb her. Keep your flashlight off if you 
 hear crying and sneak around 
  
  The last and most dangerous in my opinion is called the tank, he will throw you crush you slam 
 you and throw boulders at you he is huge, fast, and extremely strong. 
  
  Swarms of zombies will come from every direction, tearing through walls, coming through the ceiling 
 even during daylight... cuz they arent vampires
  
  If you think every zombie game is the same try this one I know I was suppressed
  
  And as for 
 audio
  Full 7.1 is available for PC users 
  5.1 For Xbox
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stricot
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  You've already read it: this game works well with any configuration, it is easy to get started 
 with, the atmosphere is good, the pace is fine, the random location of respawns makes for real 
 surprises... But looking at the non-existent package, the number of maps, the number of weapons, 
 the number of different zombies, the rather poor animation of the 4 characters, the fact that the 
 engine is nothing new... And you get bored within an hour into the single-player campaign, given 
 how repetitive the action is.
  
  This game would be great as a $20 game, but honestly a rip-off at $50. How can it compare to Far 
 Cry games for example, in terms of level design, scenario, physics... Valve must be laughing out 
 loud seeing how it sells, given it has invested so little resources into this title.
  
  Oh and for people like me who buy their games on a hard support (and I must have almost a hundred 
 boxes by now) , it was pretty annoying to have to use steam and have it installed on my computer. 
 Other companies have proved that you can have some decent online system and anw downloadable content 
 available and secure without that kind of roaming stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fat_otter
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Valve has always been known for making great FPS games, and while Left 4 Dead might not seem like 
 much on the outside, it packs enough innovative features to make it a surprisingly excellent title. 
 L4D plays out like a classic zombie apocalypse movie. You have four survivors from different backgrounds 
 joining up to survive an endless horde of zombies and escape from the dangers. Left 4 Dead is divided 
 up into 4 "movies" or chapters. Within each movie is four levels which makes for a total of 16 
 levels. In-between each level is a safehouse were you can stock up on weapons, ammo, and health 
 packs. Left 4 Dead might only feature 6 basic weapons (pistol, Uzi, pump-shotgun, assault-rifle, 
 auto-shotgun, hunting-rifle) they're enough to keep you going. And you'll need all the ammo you 
 can get because you will be taking on A LOT of zombies. The standard zombies or "infected" aren't 
 your stereotypical Dead Rising zombies. These guys will sprint at you in huge crowds and won't 
 stop until your dead. Fortunately, they can't take much damage. But the real threats in Left 4 
 Dead are the boss infected. These zombies range from the Smoker who grabs enemies with his long 
 tongue, the Hunter who moves extremely fast, the Boomer who is an obese zombie who vomits on people, 
 the tank who is a zombie on steroids, and the witch who is a powerful female zombie who rips you 
 to shreds. In the game's versus mode, 4 players assume the role of the survivors while 4 other 
 player control the boss infected. This makes the game much more intense since people control the 
 most powerful zombies. (Although you can't play as the witch because she's too powerful.) You can 
 play the game by yourself with your buddies being controlled by bots, or you can play online with 
 human controlled survivors. But what keeps Left 4 Dead from being to repetitive is the AI Director. 
 The AI Director controls were the enemies are located (including boss zombies) as well as weapon 
 and item placement which makes no two games alike. So once you complete the somewhat short game 
 (4-6 hours) , here's a trick, play it again. I guarantee the experience will be much different. 
 So when you put all of this together, you get a surprisingly fun experience that any FPS gamer 
 must see for themselves! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naikori
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 4:49 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - 9.0: You start out in the game by choosing a mission, a chapter, then 1 of 4 charecters. 
 The other three charecters will be controled by the Computer. Usually, in every mission you start 
 in, your in a room with your three partners. There is 2 or 3 weapons on a table, some ammo next 
 to it, and Health Packs. Once you get outside, you'll see some zombies that are just walking around. 
 The Zombies are actually pretty easy to kill. 2 to 5 shots and the zombie is down. Now, when you 
 have to kill a special Zombie, like a Hunter or a Smoker, it will take a lot of shots to kill it. 
 Once it is dead, a special zombie might have a side effect when you kill it. Two examples: Boomer 
 - Makes a green-like goo come on to your have to make difficulty of seeing. Smoker - Pops out smoke 
 and if you go through it, you can barley see and you will lose a little Health. Fun parts come 
 in when you have about 300 Zomies running at you that you and your partners have to kill. I haven't 
 tried Online yet. (Well.... I have problems going online to it.) Also to add, I have found no glitches 
 or bugs in the game yet.
  
  Graphics - 9.0: In going for the charecter praspective for graphics, it seems that Valve and EA 
 worked a little harder on the Zombies then the charecters. The 4 survivors look good, but could 
 use a little touching up. The blood and gore of the Survivors and Zombies look great. (Guts only 
 apply to the Zombies.) The scenery is pretty good, even when you have your flashlight on in a dark 
 room.
  
  Sound - 8.0: The sound was a little dissapointing. Having to hear gun fire a lot is fun, but when 
 the 3 other Survivors controled by the computer talk, they seem to talk for a while, when you can 
 only say about 4 words in a sentence. What dropped down this score was the ability not to hear 
 the Zombies coming up from behind. Only times you can hear a Zombie is when it attacks you. It 
 takes out the fun a little, but it's still alright.
  
  Overall - 8.5: So, a Zombie Apocalypse with only four Survivors sounds hard, but it's actually 
 pretty easy, no matter what difficulty you put. There's no bugs or glitches found by me yet, but 
 I'll keep a good eye on it for later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oni
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Left for dead, may be short. It may be repetitive. It may lack story. But where it's shortcomings 
 fail to please it's strengths make up for it. 
  
  I have to say I was surprised at how fun this game is. Great levels and game design make it easy 
 for anyone to jump in with 3 random people and go. It's even more fun with friends. Though the 
 game itself lacks variety, it doesn't take away from the overall enjoyment it gives you.
  
  Solo play is rather drab. I can't really see myself ever playing the campaigns with bots. I've 
 only played the single player once and got bored quickly. Not to say there isn't fun to be had 
 alone. I personally have had way more enjoyment while playing with others. 
  
  The versus is a really fun mode where 2 teams trade off from being "survivors" to "Infected". It's 
 really cool to be the infected who's goal is solely to stop the other team from getting away.
 
  
  The music is great, really raises the intensity level and the characters voice overs are perfect. 
 The "infected" are done well and the environments are quite fitting without being confusing.
  
  Overall, the elements of "Left for Dead" come together to create a unique and exciting experience, 
 even though after you've been to hell and back you might be craving more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheOddQuantum
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2008 10:59 am PT
Review:  Valve seems to have a ridiculously long streak of ridiculously good games; Half Life 1-2.2, Portal, 
 TF1/2, etc. That is why this game surprised me. It wasn't the gleaming pot of jewel-encrusted platinum 
 that Valve usually produces, but a slightly more opaque crystal-encrusted gold filled pot.
  
  Now don't get me wrong. It's a good game. A very good game. However as I played through the 
 cinematic sequences that were the levels I couldn't help but feel a certain repetition. As if I 
 was doing the same thing, over and over. Sure the environment was different, but it was essentially 
 the same thing:
  Start off, fight off zombies, find occasional mutated zombie, flick switch, fight off zombies, 
 fight off tank and then finally: do all of those at the same time. 
  And then there are the weapons. 6 weapons Valve? 6 Weapons is the best you could do? Two types 
 of shotgun, pistols, uzi, rifle and hunting rifle. Oh yes, and then theres the ridiculously over-powered 
 pipebomb, that attracts the zombies like a hundred alcoholics to a bottle of whisky, and then brutally 
 blows them up in a shower of gore, which admittedly is very cool.
  Nevertheless, the worst thing about the game is that it has no ending, though it might mean there 
 will be patches with more levels.
  
  But enough about the bad things, lets talk about the good things. With the dynamic lighting and 
 the zombie dismemberment, It really makes you feel like your in a movie.
  The best thing of all is the Versus mode. Pure genius. Getting together with your friends to either 
 fend-off, or help the zombie apocalypse is chaotic and fun. So I think that the co-op and versus 
 modes are the two main features of this game, and you definately should miss out on them. 
  
  In conclusion, only buy this game if you have constant access to internet. If you do then, 
 What are you still doing here? You should be playing L4D? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spidey608
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is hands down my favorite first person shooter. You get to play as four survivors as 
 you try to make it from safe room to safe room while defending yourselves against hordes of zombies.
 
  
  For those of you who are unsure of what platform you would like to play this game on, I would recommend 
 the PC. Playing online is free and really gives this game the ability to keep you hooked.
  
  Versus mode allows you to play as a special zombie as well as a survivor. If you think you're 
 a good shooter, grab a gun and hit the trail. If you always wondered how much fun those special 
 zombies have picking off you and your teammates, well go find out for yourself.
  
  Campaign mode online is also a lot of fun. If you have a microphone by your computer, you can enable 
 the in-game chat which makes this game a lot of fun. The best news is that this is all completely 
 free. I love the XBOX 360, but I can't imagine playing this particular game on anything but the 
 PC.
  
  For those of you still wondering whether or not you should buy this game, check out the videos 
 for the game and see if you still feel the same way. 
  
  Bottom line, I would reccomend this game to anyone looking for some good old fashioned zombie killing 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antipunt1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead came out exactly as I expected it to be. A great multiplayer zombie madness, delivered 
 by the one and only Valve. From the second I laid eyes on it, I knew we were in pro-territory. 
 Great frame-rates, great looks, very intuitive yet INNOVATIVE zombie shooter system.
  
  To survive, you need teammates. This is kind of ironic, because to enjoy the game, you ALSO need 
 teammates. Left 4 Dead redefines "cooperative games" in that you absolutely need your teammates 
 to not only survive, but have fun. Computer AI is good... a little too good. I swear that the AI 
 is better than a lot of human players out there...
  
  But the praise doesn't end there. The character design is flawless. Voice acting superb. There 
 seems to be nothing wrong with this game on a technical standpoint. However, why is it that I just 
 don't 'feel' this game as being on 'epic level'?
  
  I think the answer is simple. Left 4 Dead was created to do exactly what it wanted to do. But what 
 it 'wanted to do' goes nothing beyond a game like Team Fortress 2. And yes TF 2 is a great game. 
 So is counterstrike. But these games RELY heavily on certain aspects to make the game fun: teammates. 
 
  
  Without teammates the game goes sour very quickly. This isn't a problem, but what I'm emphasizing 
 here is that this game is like CounterStrike with zombies. The maps are really limited. The guns 
 are not diverse. And you can find yourself calling the game 'repetitive' even though the game prided 
 itself on replayability (zombie spawn) .
  
  To be honest, this game is made so well, but it still won't survive the test of time. The game 
 gets repetitive VERY quickly. I'd say in a little bit over a week, it'll start to taste stale, 
 no thanks to the lack of map and scenario variability. Versus mode is by far the most fun in the 
 game, and there are only two sets for that as well.
  
  In short, I'd say, Left 4 Dead is very much groundbreaking in ideas and execution, but it isn't 
 groundbreaking in terms of enjoyability. I'd say Left4Dead isn't anywhere near Portal league; perhaps 
 one of the biggest drawbacks was the lack of a fun/innovative single player campaign. Yes Portal 
 had its greatest moments as you struggled through its puzzles and interacted with the yet-to be 
 famous Glados, but Left 4 Dead lacks that entirely.
  
  As a result, character attachment is sparse, and repetition-ahoy-syndrome starts to begin.
  
 
  Despite these issues, Left4Dead is a great game. I will not rate it lower than an 8.5 based on 
 its technical strengths alone. Love the engine. Graphics. VA. The list goes on and on. But is there 
 any real 'magic' in the game? I'd place my bet that everyone has a little bug in their head that 
 claims this game just doesn't have the replayability of a $60 game.... Leave that for Fallout3 
 and alike. 
  
  Long story short: very good game, but don't expect it to be 'great' or anything groundbreaking 
 in the long run 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uberjannie
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  We all know that killing zombies are fun, but in Left 4 Dead, its so much more!
  Imagine a world filled with zombies, which in L4D is called infected, but you and 3 friends are 
 immune.
  
  You and your three friends are on roof trying to get to somewhere safe.
  You venture forth only to meet hordes of infected you mow them down like candy on a late Halloween 
 night.
  The walls are splattered with zombie brains and guts, just the way we want it, when suddenly one 
 of your friends get dragged out of light into the dark by a long tongue. 
  Quickly sprinting to save your friend you get pushed away by another of your friend when some super 
 zombie suddenly jumps on top of him, holding him down and bashing open his chest.
  You turn around to smack away the one ripping your friend open, just before you hit the zombie 
 over his head with the butt of your shotgun a fat zombie comes through the door, barfing all over 
 you and 2 of your friends, covering you with a sticky smelly goo. 
  The normal infected humans gets attracted to this smell like stinking rats to rotting zombie intestines. 
 You push yourself in a corner waving your shotgun around like it was a bat at a baseball game. 
 
  The moment you are starting to get your vision back you see that the friend that got pulled off 
 by the tongue died and the only one barely alive is you and a friend lying on the floor still shooting 
 his pistols on the infected surrounding him , stomping him to the floor.
  
  This is Left 4 Dead in a short story. The game is really tense, really exciting and can be extremely 
 though even on easy settings if you do not play cooperatively with your team.
  
  Multiplayer is great on this game. You can either play all the 4 campaigns cooperatively or in 
 versus mode.
  In Versus mode four players control the survivors while additional 4 other players control the 
 Infected, mind you do not control the normal infected. The only player controllable infected are 
 the special infected.
  One big drawback though are that in Versus mode there are only 2 of the 4 campaigns available, 
 so you might get tired of the maps even though the game is super re playable.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PCbadjer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  This game is all about atmosphere and oh' baby does it deliver. It's not disturbing scary mind 
 you, but it may make you flinch alittle or do a little something in your pants which can be fun 
 on occasion. The close quarter combat and team mechanics is some of the best to date. Go too far 
 ahead of your team or fall behind and you're gonna take alot of hurt if not death. Finally a game 
 that punishes that loan wolf and makes teamplay essential. 
  
  The human vs. infected multiplayer is a blast and very well thought out. The coop works great. 
 Initially when I started playing, I was worried I was going to get bored due to the few maps. Unbelieveably, 
 everytime I play its been a new experience which is probably the most impressive aspect of this 
 game. 
  
  Some people think the graphics are dated, (and maybe so) but I think the games looks pretty awesome 
 considering how buttery smooth it plays. I'm playing 1920x1200 16xAA 16xAF with everything on max 
 and it stays locked in at 60fps 95% of the time with an amd 5600+ windsor, 4g of ram, and 2 9600gt's 
 in sli so you don't need a big dollar machine to play this game. Exploding zombie heads and blood 
 splattering on the screen will never get old.
  
  The sound is well done and essential to gameplay. You won't do so great playing with sound off... that's 
 for sure.
  
  If there is any complaint I have it's maybe I just want more. More weapons, more maps, and more 
 fun. 
  
  This game has my vote for game of the year and it deserves it. It's a very original and well thought 
 out game that makes me glad I'm a PC gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotty_12
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 6:39 am PT
Review:  ok so in left 4 dead you can play as one of 4 people zoey, bill, francis and louis.
  
  you start the game after after a 5 minute opening movie on the top of some random building you 
 climbed 2 get away from the zombies and you have to make your way to the mercy hospital so you 
 go on fighting the zombies and get 2 the hospital where the militarys sposed to pick you up just 
 2 find its been over run by zombies.
  
  as the game progresses theres more zombies and more little suprises along the way.
  
  there 
 are few weapons in this game there are 
  
  primary weapons: m4a1, mini uzi, shotgun and a sniper rifle
  secondary: pistol, duel wielded pistols
 
  nades: pipe bombs and molotov cocktails
  then youve got your med packs that gve you a full heal
  and your pills give you little amounts 
 of health.
  
  okay so you have 3 team mates that you can order around the primary buttons to do this is a combination 
 of l4d sdk now it all seemed a bit stupid to me so i changed it to o. (thats a tip btw)
  
  now you can play co-operative and multiplayer but you can only play ultiplayer after you master 
 co-op so yer thats stupid.
  
  
  parents beware this game is extremily graphic and may scare most little one so i recomend you dont 
 buy this game for pre-teens.
  
  
  also this game is fun for about the first 2 hours then i just gets old and boring.
  
  i really 
 dont recommend waisting your money on this game download it play it for a few hours and delete 
 it.
  
  it is really a waste of money yet fun all the same so i give it a 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alhenriq1
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2008 12:15 am PT
Review:  This game is great, especially if you have a couple of friends who pick up a copy. Fnally a great 
 co-op FPS done right. One can only hope it sets the pace for future games. 
  
  The game consists of 4 campaigns, each with 4 or 5 (not sure which) sections. An entire campaign 
 takes about a little over an hour to complete on hard or normal, usually under an hour for easy, 
 and expert... well, you'll be sitting there for a while. Every time you play a campaign it's going 
 to be a little different. There will be different "Special" zombies, different weapon locations, 
 etc. Also, depending on how you're doing, it will affect the number of zombies you encounter. There 
 is also a versus mode where you can play 4v4 multiplayer. It's pretty cool except there are a lot 
 of annoying people that shouldn't have mics. In addition, this game has great weapon variety, and 
 nice graphics. There is also enough to shoot for 4 people to get their fill.
  
  My only real con with this game is the length. I love playing the campaigns. I would have loved 
 just one or 2 more. However, there is still plenty to do. There are lots of achievements, and I 
 still have to master expert, so this game will keep me busy for a while. Gather up your buds and 
 grab a copy. Highly recommened. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyunnh
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead (L4D) is truly a nice step forward for all shooter games and is especially a big step 
 in the right direction for zombie games. The things that everyone expects from a valve game are 
 there, innovation with the AI director, smooth polished gameplay, and customers thinking is that 
 all?
  
  L4D has amazing pros that out weight most of it's cons but two of the largest cons have to be the 
 fact that he game has very little to no story. This is not really a problem because most shooters 
 story is weak to very weak at best (expect COD4 in my personal opinion) . However that doesn't take 
 away from the game because the game is meant to be played as a co-op game and all shooter don't 
 have any story involved in their multiplayer maps, however I would really have enjoyed to know 
 at least where the zombies came from and why their a super zombies or boss zombies.
  
  The second con has to be the limited gameplay or limited maps. The game is designed like a movie, 
 or campaign. In each movie there are 5 maps, and there are only 4 movies in the game, each movie 
 usually takes between 1-2 hours to complete unless on expert. The thing that offsets this possibly 
 damaging lack of gameplay are two things, first and most importantly is the AI director who is 
 a line of code that manages the players "stress" levels during the game making the same map different 
 every time, if you are a dead eye with tons of ammo in the middle of a level swarms of zombies 
 will come from every direction, if your team is weak and near death at the same spot there might 
 be one or two. This element should be copied by every shooter wanting to do CO-OP correctly in 
 the future, it truly spoils players to exactly what they want in a CO-OP non PVP experience. the 
 second thing that adds to the gameplay is the 4v4 vs mode were 4 players are the survivors for 
 a round and the other 4 are the randomly spawned boss zombies, which is surprisingly fun, once 
 that map is finished the 8 players switch sides and replay the map.
  
  All in all if you are a fan of zombies, co-op gameplay, valve games, horror games, or shooters 
 this is a great game to pick up.... its not a dead space in the horror area but it will freak you 
 out if you let it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrvtChurch
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  I was somewhat excited and looked forward to this when I heard about it way back at E3. However, 
 as time passed I grew less interested in L4D and more in Dead Space for my holiday horror fix. 
 But in mid November with Dead Space behind me and not much to play yet (was still waiting for NFS: 
 Undercover) , I decided to get this off of Steam.
  
  As I began to play this I grew addicted almost immediately and played noting else for almost a 
 week, even forgetting about Undercover for several days. The controls are simple and intuitive; 
 the graphics are reasonably good considering you won't have much time to enjoy them; the zombies 
 are fast, dangerous, and surprisingly intelligent (George Romero would be turning in his grave 
 if he were dead) . The fast paced action and arcade like gameplay make for an instant hit.
  
  While quite short, there is TON of replayability and with online Co-Op the fun, blood, and 
 brains keep flying. Absolutely my favorite zombie game (Resident Evil 4 (GC) would be #1 if they 
 were actually Zombies) of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J0nGalt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  If you have played half life you understand that they will be exceptional.
  Physics:
  Same as graphics.
  Sound:
  Holy crap! This game is best played in the dark, before 
 bed, with headphones on, with friends. It does a remarkable job of scaring the living hell out 
 of you constantly. Great job. 
  Gameplay:
  I want to say "Absolutely unique", but that would be close to a lie. You need to run from one point 
 to another with limited ammo and health through all kinds of terrible undead-LIKE creatures, just 
 realize that they are actually infected, mutated humans.
  The game forces you to help your team mates or fail, and the siege points where you need to defend 
 yourself from literally hundreds of infected is flipping SWEET. 
  The versus mode is awesome, as you get to take turns playing infected/survivors trying to either 
 kill the other team or make it to a safe room. And you get points afterwards. I highly reccomend 
 talking friends into playing with you on a team.
  PROS: Everything but the campaign, with particular emphasis on the multi-player. Its worth the 
 money for that alone, my family bought 3!
  CONS:
  the reviewer is correct, the campaign was EXTREMELY lacking... a short back story and character 
 introductions would have made this game a 10 easy. Seeing what things were like pre-infection would 
 have been nice also setting a great atmosphere later in the game.
  
  If you and 4 friends go in together you can get the "4 pack" off of steam for 150.00 which translates 
 into 38.50 a peice or 20% off. That is what we did. Downloaded from steam in under an hour!!!!
 
  
  If you enjoy FPS and want a solid multi-player experience thats sure to see further improvement... BUY 
 THIS GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krohn27
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  Well I've always had a place in my heart for zombies so that alone gave this game a boost. However 
 once I started playing I found this game was a lot of fun in its own right. After about 15 hours 
 of play this is definitely not a solo game. While the director mixes up the zombie and weapon locations 
 each playthrough its still very repetitive when playing alone. The real meat of the game as has 
 been mentioned many times is playing with other people. While it will always be better when playing 
 with your friends I have found many new friends just joining random online matches.
  Beginners will find normal to be about right I'm sure but once you've gotten used to the game you 
 will really want to challenge yourself with advanced level or god forbid Expert. The regular zombies 
 are never a major challenge on any setting the real challenge comes when the boss zombies get invovled. 
 Whether its the boomer vomiting on you to attract the hordes, a smoker dragging off one of you 
 friends, getting pounced by a hunter, or a tank barreling through your group these are the truly 
 tense moments. 
  Once you get tiring of fighting the horde alongside your friends its time to move on to versus 
 where you compete against another team of four. You take turns playing as the survivors then as 
 the 4 types of boss zombies. You gain points for distance traveled, survival rate, and map difficulty. 
 If you thought expert levle was hard you are in for a whole new experience as four humans organize 
 the perfect zombie assault.
  The weapons are nothing spectacular but they work for the game. There is no overpowering super 
 weapon and while you start with plenty of ammo you can quickly run low as horde after horde runs 
 you down. 
  Overall I would definitely recommend this game to zombie fanatics like myself. As for others there 
 are such a wide variety of co-op fps out there like team fortress 2, rainbow six, counterstrike, 
 etc... you really need to pick which niche is for you but if you are looking for something with 
 a horror flair and good variety of difficulty levels you should pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mazena86
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 7:18 am PT
Review:  I've been meaning to review this game for quite a while now, but I've been holding it back since 
 I've been too busy. Busy playing Left 4 Dead of course! There has been lots of times though, when 
 I've thought if I still want to play it. And I start the game and see if I'm still addicted. One 
 or two hours later I realize I'm still addicted since it felt like 15 minutes.
  
  I won't bore you all with the facts that this is Valve game blablabla, but I'll just get right 
 down and dirty - I'll tell you the good and the bad stuff.
  
  The game looks and sounds just right. And even when there are about 40 zombies at a time on the 
 screen - half of them burning by the way - the frame rate is solid. Maybe sometimes the zombies 
 just fly a bit too far just because you shot them with a shotgun. But... It's just fun to see them 
 fly.
  
  The AI is good on the infected side, the horde runs up to you with an alarming rate and there's 
 no place they can't reach. Also AI controls the special infected well enough. On the survivors 
 team things aren't as rosy though. On easy and normal difficulty I guess the bots are okay on your 
 team, but on advanced or expert they'll just slow you down, and eventually kill you.
  
  Shucks, I'm rambling on here, long story cut short: the game is awesome fun - you get to shoot 
 so many zombies it will be hard to keep count (especially after you get the 53thousand achievement) . 
 Versus mode is even more fun as you can stalk on the survivors or you can kick the human zombies' 
 ass!
  
  The game CAN get enormously frustrating though if you're playing versus, advanced or expert difficulty. 
 This occurs when you realize you have one or two kids/newbies on your team and your whole game 
 goes to hell because of them. Of course there's vote, but booting the player so you can play with 
 a bot on expert ain't too fun either.
  
  Still I recommend this shiny piece of hope in the gaming industry for everyone who's into FPS-games 
 and very-fast-paced-action! This game will definitely steal some of your sleepy-time. Don't worry, 
 on online play, you won't have time to be scared, you're too busy covering your friends' asses. 
 And only four campaigns you've heard? Correct. But the re-playability on those four is insane.
 
  
  9,5 - Valve, we salute you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caligua_65
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 9:15 am PT
Review:  Funny how such a simplistic premise can be so much fun. Left4Dead is proof that you don't need 
 an overly-complex, all-everything game to have a great gaming experience.
  
  Single player is very engaging, but at times frustrating. Your companion's AI has lapses, especially 
 when you need them the most. Nothing worse than being swarmed by brain-eaters while your team is 
 stuck behind a wall you just walked around. Really need to watch your pace so your companions are 
 shoulder-to-shoulder with you every step of the way.
  
  But this game really isn't designed for single player. In multi-player mode it flat-out rocks. 
 Reminds me of the first time I played BF1942. It was such a unique and smooth experience playing 
 in on-line mode you couldn't help but get sucked up into it for hours on end.
  
  The boss brain-eaters are a kick - and TOUGH. You really need to keep your wits about you to work 
 past these guys. Doesn't take long for you to do more than just scan the streets for these bad 
 guys. They enjoy making guest apperances from building tops.
  
  Have only tried Versus mode a couple of times, but it makes for an entirely different game. Your 
 strategies change considerably and always fun to play the bad (good?) guy. Looking forward to digging 
 more into this facet of the game.
  
  Graphics and street scenes remind me a lot of the last Max Payne and F. E. A. R. games. Extremely 
 realistic with shadows, fires, and odd-ball lighting adding to the battered landscape and interiors. 
 Sound is top-notch - weapon fire, zombie groans, voice-overs from companions all mesh perfectly 
 to make it a completely engrossing experience.
  
  All in all, one hella entertaining game - I have no hesitations recommending it to any gaming enthusiast 
 (age 14 and over - it's too over-the-top gruesome and violent for kids) . If you don't have it, 
 then be sure to tell Santa it needs to be in your stocking come Christmas morning! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matty12h
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing Left 4 Dead for 50 hours now and the Co-op in this game doesnt not give up 
 or get boring. I have played through rushing, using strategy, or just playing a funserver where 
 we just play around using commands. Left 4 Dead has been one of the best Multiplayer expierences 
 I have ever had.
  
  Pros: The Pros in this game are numerous, first of all the stability in the game (not the lobby 
 talk to you about that later) are amazing, my decent laptop can support numerous zombies onscreen 
 which is a surprise to me. 
  Second the fun you have with random people in the game is great, people talk through the mic and 
 make strategic plans with you to beat an expert level. 
  Thirdly the weapons in the game give a good balance to the gameplay and let you discuss with your 
 teammates on which weapons to use.
  
  Cons: First the big dissapointment to me was the Game Lobby System and not a Find your one server 
 system, this makes me a PC user feel like Steam was aiming for Console gamers and ignoring Pc Users 
 requests?
  Second they should have updated the source engine, the numerous old problems should have been resolved 
 like the lighting issues were annoying.
  Thirdly the Bugs and Freeze issues with the Lobby system are Disapointing, The Lobby should not 
 be the source of Freezing? 
  
  Overall Left 4 Dead is a great expierence that will be enjoyed for years to come as it is a unique, 
 and Replayable game.
  
  As a Steam User by Far Left 4 Dead is probably the Greatest Game I have played on Steam with Cs 
 Source close to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lymond01
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead has become my game du jour. It's a First-Person-Shooter with perhaps the greatest co-op 
 gameplay ever. Playing with a headset and microphone, I've had moments with people I've just met 
 through a Quick Match that had us all breathlessly laughing our heads off. It is truly a rush to 
 be chased by zombies through the streets, running as fast as you can to a Safe Room, you turn to 
 close the door and there's one of your party who's been knocked down just 20 feet away. Cut your 
 losses and slam the door? Or do you run out to save him from the hordes and risk dying as well?
 
  
  That's a real choice in this game, and it's what makes the game so fun -- unlike Counter-Strike 
 where people consistently die of lead poisoning and there's not much you can do about it, Left 
 4 Dead makes you a moment-to-moment hero. A companion wrapped up by a smoker's tongue, flailing 
 helplessly as he's dragged up the side of the building -- you swing your rifle butt at the latest 
 raging corpse to attempt your life, turn your gaze quickly up to the rooftop and unleash a brief 
 burst of fire at the super zombie, freeing your friend who now has to save YOUR butt from the ever-increasing 
 hordes.
  
  It puts the team back in teamwork -- you need to stick together, rely on each other. It brings 
 strangers closer as the game forces you to help one another -- if you leave someone behind to be 
 savaged, then there's only 3 of you left, and that may just not be enough.
  
  Replayability of the 4 missions (20 levels in all) hasn't been a problem because, although the 
 maps are always the same, the experience is always different because of the AI Director. Sometimes 
 those handy gas cans are in the store room, sometimes it's a couple flesh-eating zombies. There 
 are places where, just like in the opening movie, someone ends up screaming "We made it! Oh my 
 god, we finally made it!" and you have to reply, "Well, all we did was cross the street..." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godshalomaster
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2008 12:22 am PT
Review:  If you've ever watched some of the classic zombie movies such as Dawn of the dead then you can 
 pretty much expect a nice transition into video games with Left 4 Dead. You get to choose from 
 four playable characters known as the "Survivors". You must make your way to safety while fighting 
 off hordes of undead. The AI in the game is extremely good and will either beef up or lighten up 
 on how many walking dead will attack you. It gets really interesting when one of the four specialty 
 zombies attack. You have the hunter with the long reaching tongue and when killed smokes, the boomer 
 who can shoot vomit on you and attract more zombies to you or explode when shot. The tank which 
 can take a great deal of damage before dying and throw large chunks of cement. Finally the Witch, 
 who announces her presence with an eerie small girls cry. When you find her though she can instantly 
 down any of your party and is extremely fast. Overall the game hits everything on the head and 
 delivers what I consider a long overdue experience in zombie survival games. Sadly The only downfall 
 to the game is the shortness. Broken up into four chapters the game is extremely short but thanks 
 to clever mechanics and the ability to play as the undead in the multi-player Left 4 Dead is one 
 of the must have games for your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drakos
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2008 3:37 pm PT
Review:  After playing virtually all of the FPS's that were available this year, I can honestly say that 
 Left 4 Dead is one of the most enjoyable. It is not to say that I have some gripes with this game 
 also. 
  
  You play as 4 survivors trying to reach target destinations or infected zombies trying to prevent 
 them. The graphics are good and comparable to other games using the HL2 engine. Great gore is one 
 of the highlights and there is nothing more pleasing than watching zombies head explode or players 
 getting their guts torn out. The weapon selection is good but limited. As you progress through 
 the levels, you will have opportunity to upgrade weapons. The key to the game is teamwork and without 
 it, you will lose. The game features voice over IP but is drowned out by blaring music, so you 
 will have to turn it down in the options. The maps in the game are of reasonable length but very 
 linear. Not much room to explore. Perhaps one of the biggest bugs in the game is being stuck in 
 spawn mode in multiplayer. Spawn time is critical in a match and can decide if you will win or 
 lose. Being stuck trying to respawn is a huge bug and hopefully be fixed with a patch. The sound 
 in the game is excellent, and makes very good use of ambient effects. You can pinpoint where the 
 infected are by hearing them growl or moan. There are great strategic elements in the game like 
 knowing when to attack, or knowing when to use specific items like med packs or explosive devices. 
 There are specific creatures that spawn at random like the Tank which is a super zombie which the 
 infected team gets to play. He can mow over players and cripple them quite easily and hence teamwork 
 required to take it down. There is a witch also which is spawned randomly at various locations 
 on a level. While she doesn't look very intimidating, she can cripple a player very easily if she 
 is startled. It would have been great if players had the ability to choose where to place her on 
 the level. While the game is very repetitive, there are enough elements to keep you entertained 
 and addicted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DAnconia
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for a good Zombie game since RE4 and it has finally arrived!
  
  I played the game by myself first to make sure I wouldnt anger anyone else for my ignorance on 
 how the game worked. It was pretty boring and I started to doubt that Valve had made a dud with 
 one of my favorite genres of all time. And then I went on line....
  
  It took this game up 4 points easily. I was suddenly very tense and excited that the other players 
 and myself are a team fighting for nothing more than survival. To rescue someone from a Hunter 
 or Smoker is so satisfying. The person saved appreciates it as well. I know I do. I can not wait 
 to get a head-set so that I can actually communicate with the other players. Being a rogue player 
 in this game is about the worst that you can do to the rest of the team. There is no place in the 
 game that you can take on by yourself. I dont understand why someone would go far out in front 
 of the rest of the team to just get killed. Cause that will happen. Or you just put the entire 
 team in jeopardy trying to rescue you. If you get attacked by any of the special enemies by yourself 
 you WILL die. Something that has been very helpful within the game is that when you are looking 
 at helpful items such as health packs, ammo, guns, bombs or molotovs it alerts everyone else in 
 the group. Your character will shout, "Pipe Bombs over here!" You can also heal other players or 
 pass some meds off to them for a temporary boost of health. It truly is about making sure the entire 
 team is healthy and ready for the next fight. Problems I have with the game is that I can not type 
 any instuctions while using my XBOX controller. Its pretty frustrating when you need to tell people 
 to get into a certain position before alerting the horde. Cause when the horde arrives you have 
 to stick together. There is no way of getting around it. Sometimes when you die within a horde 
 the game will start over but you will go into Versus Mode and not the campaign which is infuriating 
 when you have to cancel the game and you have a good and generous team together. The graphics and 
 sound are really top notch. The lighting effects, as always with the Steam engine are superb. Hearing 
 the faint noises of the horde arriving are chilling and when they arrive the music is perfect. 
 Its pretty nice to have that too cause you have about 10 seconds to prepare and reload before blasting 
 away. If you see the Witch, unless you have all team mates ready to go and with their crosshairs 
 on her then dont disturb her. She is a real **** to deal with. If you like team FPS then you will 
 like or love this one. If you love Zombie movies and Team FPS then you will LOVE this game. Buy 
 it on the Steam server, you dont have to pay taxes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SKYPHER
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  Great game, totally unique gameplay. And very very addictive. The multiplayer and the AI director 
 makes the game extremely replayable. Playing as boss zombies is really fun as well as playing the 
 survivors. The weapons are great and the "feel of a kill" is very very satisfying. Blowing zombies 
 brains out has never been this fun. They actually die with one shot to the head unlike some other 
 zombie games but the sheer amount and speed of them makes it very challenging. The 4 different 
 playable zombies all play very differently and strategizing before the kill is important. Extremely 
 fun game to play with friends. And even though there are only 4 campaigns they play between an 
 hour or two and the levels are very detailed. It really immerses you into the action. And with 
 the AI director and difficulties including the multiplayer the game is always challenging and you 
 can never seem to beat it so easily its boring. I can imagine laning this game alot in the future. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trision
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  L4D is a hard game, no doubt about it. In this game only cooperation with your teammates will keep 
 you alive in the gruesome zombie apocalypse. If you try to be a lone wolf you'll most likely get 
 killed by a hunter or smoker (some of the special infected) .
  
  With L4D, Valve has trimmed the fat and only left the meaty awesomeness. There are only a few weapons 
 to chose from and a few levels to mess around on, but it all feels incredibly sharp and polished. 
 Similarly, the graphics perform well and are beautiful (as beautiful as zombies barfing and fighting 
 can be) thanks to some tweaks in the Source engine. There are some minor shadow issues, but those 
 are really only an issue if you get up close to them.
  
  But who controls the zombies? That would be the AI director. Every time you play a level he changes 
 stuff up. Weapons won't be in the same spots and corridors once teeming with "infected" will now 
 be silent, ensuring maximum re-playability. Special boss infected are also controlled by the AI 
 director in the campaign mode, but L4D's second mode, Versus lets you go 4 V 4 in a survivor / 
 infected battle where the infected players are tasked with stopping the survivors from getting 
 to the safe house at all costs. Then the roles are switched and the hunters become the hunted.
 
  
  Overall, L4D is a great game. What it lacks in quantity it more than makes up for in quality. This 
 is one infection that you'll want to catch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madramza
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  EXTREMELY FUN WITH FRIENDS ON MIC,
  single player kinda bleh, no point as you scared outa your wits and you don't got your friends 
 crying through the mic...
  
  personally i think it pretty fun to jump into a small room with your friends (ex: bathrooms lol) , 
 close the door and listen as the zombie voices start coming in and then suddenly a hunter burst 
 through the door and eats your friend up while a horde burst in, perhaps a boomer and every1 on 
 the mic is screaming there ass off lol... over all very good game and worth it if you got friends 
 willing to buy it with you
  
  and now since i need 234 more words
  BUY IT VERY FUN GOOD GAMEPLAY EVERYTIME THE MAP CHANGES GOOD GRAPHICS RANDOMIZED AND SCARY
  BUY 
 IT VERY FUN GOOD GAMEPLAY EVERYTIME THE MAP CHANGES GOOD GRAPHICS RANDOMIZED AND SCARY
  BUY IT VERY FUN GOOD GAMEPLAY EVERYTIME THE MAP CHANGES GOOD GRAPHICS RANDOMIZED AND SCARY
  BUY 
 IT VERY FUN GOOD GAMEPLAY EVERYTIME THE MAP CHANGES GOOD GRAPHICS RANDOMIZED AND SCARY
  BUY IT VERY FUN GOOD GAMEPLAY EVERYTIME THE MAP CHANGES GOOD GRAPHICS RANDOMIZED AND SCARY
  BUY 
 IT VERY FUN GOOD GAMEPLAY EVERYTIME THE MAP CHANGES GOOD GRAPHICS RANDOMIZED AND SCARY
  BUY IT VERY FUN GOOD GAMEPLAY EVERYTIME THE MAP CHANGES GOOD GRAPHICS RANDOMIZED AND SCARY
  BUY 
 IT VERY FUN GOOD GAMEPLAY EVERYTIME THE MAP CHANGES GOOD GRAPHICS RANDOMIZED AND SCARY
  BUY IT VERY FUN GOOD GAMEPLAY EVERYTIME THE MAP CHANGES GOOD GRAPHICS RANDOMIZED AND SCARY
  BUY 
 IT VERY FUN GOOD GAMEPLAY EVERYTIME THE MAP CHANGES GOOD GRAPHICS RANDOMIZED AND SCARY
  BUY IT VERY FUN GOOD GAMEPLAY EVERYTIME THE MAP CHANGES GOOD GRAPHICS RANDOMIZED AND SCARY
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cerberusdest
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  singleplayer is useless
  but multiplayer on harder difficulties is addictive 
  buy this game
  singleplayer is useless
  but multiplayer on harder difficulties is addictive 
 
  buy this game
  singleplayer is useless
  but multiplayer on harder difficulties is addictive 
  buy this game
  singleplayer is useless
 
  but multiplayer on harder difficulties is addictive 
  buy this game
  singleplayer is useless
  but multiplayer on harder difficulties is addictive 
  buy this game
 
  singleplayer is useless
  but multiplayer on harder difficulties is addictive 
  buy this game
  singleplayer is useless
  but multiplayer on harder difficulties is addictive 
 
  buy this game
  singleplayer is useless
  but multiplayer on harder difficulties is addictive 
  buy this game
  singleplayer is useless
 
  but multiplayer on harder difficulties is addictive 
  buy this game
  singleplayer is useless
  but multiplayer on harder difficulties is addictive 
  buy this game
 
  singleplayer is useless
  but multiplayer on harder difficulties is addictive 
  buy this game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2008 6:05 am PT
Review:  Recently, there are many horror-themed released games, and Left 4 Dead is no exception. Immerse 
 yourself into the battle against the infected, enjoying every single kill you make.
  
  You will play four different campaigns, with different stories and targets, each one having five 
 amazing levels. But it is a pity for such a great game to be that short, isn't it?
  
  Anyway, you will be delighted with the gameplay, which features four different people, each one 
 with his own abilities, which are vital for you to progress to the next levels. The weapons you 
 can use are very good-looking and they are useful, too. While the zombies will make you scream 
 of terror, you can shoot them down and relax a bit without any difficulty at all. That is mainly 
 because the good selection of controls, which are really easy to use, and in addition, the mouse 
 will move the camera for you, so there is no need to worry.
  
  The graphics of the game are fabulous, and by the time you are really interested to see how the 
 high-resolution is working, there is no need to worry. Left 4 Dead's flexible visuality will allow 
 to almost every Windows Vista system to enable maximied graphics options while the performance 
 stays in its tempo.
  
  Left 4 Dead is another tight and difficult game to play, and you should give this challange a try, 
 even if you are not really interested in this sort of video-games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nelrock
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2008 2:05 am PT
Review:  i told my mom this game isn't bad because im killing already dead people... she said OMFG! as i 
 blew off a zombie chicks head... i said LOL! and then i gave the game a 10, for bringing back that 
 old spark i used to feel when i played video games 10 years ago.
  
  The graphics are great, the characters are freaken sweet, i am amazed by the expressions of fear 
 on the characters as they realize they are about to die when health is low... that mixed with the 
 eerie music give it an awesome experience. Zombie rushes never looked so good, the physics are 
 point on, and the animations are great, i love blasting a zombie while he's running and watch him 
 splat against a brick wall. 
  
  AND for the best part, coop. This is coop like ive never seen... i recall a certain point in the 
 blood harvest campaign where we strategically planned out a defense on the 2nd floor of the house, 
 each of us guarded a door and blasted... then we got tank rushed and busted his ass on the roof, 
 and there's nothing like being the last survivor running for the army vehicle rescue as 50 zombies 
 and a tank are chasing you.. mmm i lova da juice! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goriom
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2008 11:07 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about this Steam game, I wasn't too thrilled, I didn't think that it would be 
 done correctly. Well I was completely wrong, the game is done amazingly well. Content is a bit 
 short, but you better believe that there will be an insurmountable amount of user content coming 
 out in a few short weeks.
  
  I am personally psyched to play the Mall from "Dawn of the Dead". which will be coming out around 
 Christmas time.
  
  The game is a bit boring if you play it alone, although the AI is pretty good, the Episode 2 Steam 
 Engine is Incredible, the game looks great, and the best part of it is you can go through all the 
 episodes with friends, up to 4 co-op and 8 versus-mode, and YES! you can play as the zombies in 
 versus mode.
  
  This is a must have for any Zombie-horror enthusiast. Go pick it up now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swiftstrike5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 10:53 pm PT
Review:  I really loved playing this game the first time through, but as great as the AI director is, it 
 just doesn't help the replayability enough. 4 missions, about an hour&half to complete. It's really 
 just not enough for $50. I love this game, but it just doesn't have the replay value I hoped for. 
 AI director is great, but you will hardily notice the subtle changes in zombie positions. A majority 
 of the levels are so linear that any fight that takes place, regardless of AI position, plays out 
 the exact same way. Zombies and bosses will be funneled into the same position. The game is slightly 
 flawed in this aspect. 
  
  I personally found the versus much, much more enjoyable then the co-op. It felt like it had much 
 more replay value then co-op. Humans will always be more random then AI. It's always fun to work 
 together and take down a defenseless survivor. 
  
  As great as this game is, it just doesn't have enough replay value to warrant a $50 purchase. They 
 say they will release content, and they probably will, but it seems like it will be a year or two 
 (valve time) before it has enough content for it to feel worth the money spent. I really enjoyed 
 this game, but it just doesn't last.
  
  Zombie animations are absolutely amazing. I love shooting one and having it run aimlessly into 
 a wall or flinching as the bullets pass through them. 
  
  Overall: Great game, just wait awhile until there's more content and you'll also save some money. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phasmantis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 8:54 pm PT
Review:  I can say that without a doubt, this game is the funnest game I've ever played. I have never had 
 more fun in a FPS game in my entire life. Online play is superb. 4v4 with random people, or 4v4 
 with some friends, or 4v4 with all your friends! Team work is essential, and 90 percent of the 
 time you'll find your buddies covering your back or attacking with you. Don't forget about 4 player 
 online campaign too! That's always a ton of fun with friends. The game also has a good in-game 
 voice chat system. You find yourself barking orders and people listening to them. You can get really 
 into this game sometimes!
  
  Note; The 4v4 is 4 survivors vs. 4 special zombies accompanied by an massive NPC zombie army. Just 
 what I had hoped for!
  
  Single player has awesome replayability too. Ever feel like killing a ton of stuff for any reason? 
 Hop on and release your anger! Wipe out hordes of zombies!
  
  The physics and effects are amazing also, accompanied by awesome graphics. The way the zombies 
 die is the most realistic death system I've ever seen. It's ragdoll mixed with animation that works 
 perfectly to give you almost frightening realism. The guns are loud and powerful, and the environment 
 is creepy -- but no too scary as to take away from enjoyability.
  
  A lot of the time you'll find yourself switching stances throughout the game. From calm and defensive 
 at one moment, to adrenaline pumped and twitching in your seat within the next. Finding sighs of 
 relief when you make it through hordes or just barely step in the safe room, or screaming into 
 your headset, "GET THIS HUNTER OFF ME! HELP!"
  
  However, like every game, this one has its flaws. Mainly the lobby/game finding system. The game 
 does an auto-search for rooms instead of the games page they use in counter-strike, but does have 
 a nifty in-game friends menu that links with Steam so you can see what games your friends are in 
 and join them. However, if you don't have enough friends to do a full on private 4v4, it's almost 
 impossible to fit in more than two of your friends into a public game unless you get lucky enough 
 to be a lobby leader and can kick people until your friends squeeze in. However, the game is so 
 fun that I put up with it. Hopefully until they fix it...
  
  You also get a small share of people who won't work with you, but there's a very simple call vote 
 option to kick those uncooperative players, and people don't hesitate to vote with you, because 
 they feel the pain with you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hurdlethis1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  This game presents a zombie masterpiece that makes you really work with your teammates to be successful. 
 For instance, if you fall behind to just pick up some pills on the ground, you will find yourself 
 wrapped up in the clutches of the special undead who look for stragglers and those that think they 
 can blaze through a level and set the pace for the noobs in the back. Either way, you can't be 
 too zealous of an explorer or you will quickly realize that you just made a big mistake. The FF 
 that is always on also makes you choose your shots carefully and place yourself in good positions, 
 rather than just shoot everything that moves... some do and it hurts. If you plan on getting the 
 PC version, expect to be put into a game quickly and hope that your partners cover you as much 
 as you cover them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RAGSNSTITCHES
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is not a game to play on your own. No not cause its a zombie game and zombies are scary, 
 personally i dont find games scary anyway. what I mean is this is a game thats meant to be played 
 with friends. Granted you don't need friends to play this game but it really shines when you do.
 
  
  Well i suppose I should tell you what its got. Graphically it appears a little dated (the good 
 old source engine is showing its age) but its still fantastic to look at, lighting is intense; 
 nothing like the jittery motions of a zombie horde when your unloading your machine gun on them. 
 Sound is brilliant, they outdone themselves here, it's incredibly immersive as well as practical 
 (to survive you have to listen out for the tell tale sounds of looming threats) . Plot... it's a 
 zombie apocalypse, what else could you want. If zombies and guns aren't your thing this ain't your 
 game.
  
  I have to admit, I'm quite impressed by the "director AI" (look it up I'm not going into it) becaues 
 it constantly keeps me checking my surroundings and keeping vigilant because you truly don't know 
 when the next wave well come or what surprises it brings with it.
  The zombies are highly maneuverable, they can get to you where ever you go... which adds to the 
 edge of your seat atmosphere.
  While the variety of monsters and zombies is pretty low, the quantity of them that you'll have 
 to fight is pretty astounding.
  
  This game has a pretty drastically scaled difficulty. Easy is TOO easy, normal is a good practice 
 for use singleplayer, Advanced offers a good challenge and expert... well lets just say you'll 
 need those good steam or windows live (and whatever ps3 has) buddies to get you through to the 
 end... it's unforgiving.
  
  This game is unique for an fps, well in my experience anyways. Why? Because you need the other 
 3 players (or ai but they aren't as good as a skilled human) or you won't be able to get to the 
 end of the chapters... so no lone wolfing. It doesn't matter how good your fps skill are, if your 
 on your own you'll be overwhelmed.
  
  One of it's crippeling flaws is the same thing that i just mentioned... the neccessity of teammates. 
 It's one thing if you have friends you can rely on but random online players can be a risk... in 
 my experience a lot of people can't get out of the 'run and gun or lone wolf' mentality of other 
 fps's. This game really does exploit the weakness in the chain, and it's usually devastating when 
 it happens. Unco-operative players become a bane, litterally taking down the whole team. It can 
 be quite frustrating. Each player that goes down you lose another gun, medkit and supportive character 
 which means the fight ahead gets automatically harder.
  
  That's a good round up of the co-op feature. The versus feature is another part of the game, and 
 its just as entertaining. Playing as the same beasties that caused you grief can give you just 
 as much joy. 
  
  This game is a multiplayer game, even though theres a singleplayer option. Singleplayer should 
 be considered training, not as a main feature of the game. Co-op is thrilling and very rewarding 
 when played properly and versus is like a step up from co-op because, in the hands of skilled co-operative 
 players, the infected become an even more serious threat to the survivors. I suggest you play it 
 in that order. Familiarise yourself in singleplayer, challenge your team skills in co-op, and then 
 let loose on versus.
  
  The lack of content is a shame but knowing valve there is more to come, not to mention user created 
 content. This is a superb game with tons more potential to it. 8.5 is what it gets as it is, but 
 I'm sure future enhancements will improve this... patience is all we need. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrhart24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Since I'm in a gaming clan, a number of us bought this so it definitely makes the game worth playing. 
 Single player with the bots is decent but far from the real experience. When you get some buddies 
 to play with you, or a good team, it makes the game great. I hadn't heard much about the game and 
 wasn't going to buy it at all... but after playing the demo 20 or so times, I was hooked.
  
  The graphics are pretty good for it being built on the Source engine, which is several years 
 old. You can blow off body parts and heads explode in a delightful manner with headshots. The sound 
 is great and when the music picks up, you know a zombie horde is about to attack or a tank is charging 
 towards you.
  
  The only reason this game doesn't get a 10 is because it could use some more weapons and levels, 
 in my opinion. You can use a pistol, 2 pistols, an uzi, shotgun, m4, sniper rifle, or auto shotgun. 
 You can also use pipe bombs or molotovs. There are health kits and pills, which give you a temporary 
 boost to your health. There are 4 campaigns with 5 levels each. There are 51 achievements but you 
 can earn most of them fairly quickly. They are fun to try and obtain, especially some of the harder 
 ones.
  
  The verus mode is where this game starts to pull away from the pack, so to speak. Yeah, the zombie 
 thing is fun and you feel like your in a zombie movie or something... but when you get to become 
 a zombie and barf on survivors, pull them with a tongue, tackle them from a rooftop, or throw them 
 off a skyscraper as a hulking tank, it's a new experience.
  
  If content gets added to this game (come on, Steam) , it'll last for a long time. As it stands now, 
 it's an extremely fun game that really focuses on teamwork. Without the teamwork, prepare to quickly 
 die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colt_tudor
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Hello everybody! Anyway, I am a big fan of horror/post -- apocalyptic/total disaster movies... But 
 in that domain nothing "wow-ed" me in a very long time. When I first saw this game it didn't impressed 
 me. I thought: Hmmm. another "shoot and run"... Yes, you can call this game "shoot and run" but 
 there is something else... It's a feeling, a chill on the back... The hair rising on your hands... 
 First time I really scared was back in the 90's when I was playing Doom 1&2. Back then I found 
 that you can get a real scare from a stupid flaming skull. Now I was scared again... So... I've 
 waited 14 years to get scared... 14 years ago I was disgusted by giant spiders. Now, again, but 
 by the feeling of an zombie touch... And, believe me, during this game, I've FELT the zombie touch. 
 The Valve engine made the game run incredibly fast... Thus the adrenaline... The game speed is 
 fantastic... 14 years ago I've spend many hours playing games, but an all-nighter was rare even 
 back then. This game made me stay on the chair for about 10 hours. After the first chapter I wanted 
 to go to bed, but no, after the next one, and the next one... and Hei! I've got only one more mission, 
 and another level... and so on... All the "goo" and the blood and all the stupid zombies made me 
 stay in the chair an load chapter after chapter. Anyway, I had a few crashes in the middle of the 
 level, which almost made me stop playing and yes, the game is repetitive after a while, but the 
 speed of the game made all this go away very fast. And one final rhetorical question: will I be 
 tempted to play Left4Dead 2? YES! I look forward to (especially if the will change the zombies...) 
 Good night! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HardBoiledGamer
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  Story:
  To be honest, there isn't a storyline like the Resident Evil games. You play as one of four survivors 
 and have only one objective: kill anything that moves (i. e. zombies)
  
  Gameplay:
  If you like games where you run into a place and start shooting everyone, this is a must get in 
 that case. This game is actually best played if its multiplayer. The style in which is being played 
 is same as CS or any other first person shooter. When playing co-op, its makes killing zombies 
 much easier. There's also a number of weapons you can choose from (machine guns to shotguns) , the 
 ability to dual-wield handguns and either pipe bombs or molotovs as the explosives
  
  Presentation:
  The atmosphere of this game is simply great. The surroundings make it look like 
 a Resident Evil movie (i. e. grafitti in safe houses) . The sound quality manages to keep the player 
 alert for any possible surprise attacks. If you have played RE4, think of it as the sounds made 
 in the garden maze, but least creepy. Not to mention that the sounds of the weapons also sound 
 realistic.
  
  Overall, this game is worth playing once if you're playing solo, but this game is excellent if 
 playing mulitiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CALBORN
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  It was a very rare game of Zombies I can said. I have never have so much fun killing hordes of 
 Zombies. Resident evil have done good with creating zombie but Left 4 dead is a revolution of resident 
 evil and added more fun.. Game is divided into multiple ending. There is ending on the boat, hospital 
 and other. Each have thier own story . Player will play as one of the 4 character. A old man, black 
 guy, white guy and lady. There is no different in gun as u will pick up gun later in the game . 
 It just to distinguish you from other player. 
  
  The fun start when Zombies attack. There are normal zombies, hunter bomber, witch and tanks . Each 
 have thier own special power. Zombies is the normal where run fast try to scratch you, hunter has 
 a long toungue and try to catch you and lure zombie to kill u, bomber is a fat guy which spray 
 gas at you bluring your vision and explode when kill causes gas, witch is a lady who sitting on 
 the road. Do not and I warn you becarefull with this witch as they are srong and fast and final 
 is TANks , as you read the name it described him as a tank, he run towards you and slam you on 
 the wall or hit you far far away. it is most devastating to look at it. Kill it ASAP before it 
 kills you as I can confirm it will kill you. 
  
  The best part of the game is the multiplayer, is best to play with your fren as the computer AI 
 are not smart , the stand lke a statue and waiting ZOmbie to come and don't know how to hide. SO 
 best is to gather your fren and play. You will much enjoy the campaign. there is also a versus 
 mode. Is a online game where one pt will play as survivors and others as Zombies. Try to kill those 
 survivors or stay as long as you can. 
  
  There is nothing bad much about this game as i recomen and very recomen people who love to kill 
 zombies and kick Zombies ASS. By the way, the hospital campaign one of the zombies type you are 
 able to c his ass . ewwwwwwwww... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mindboy19
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2008 2:30 am PT
Review:  It's like Portal. But with zombies and guns.
  
  Well, maybe that's not true, but that's kind of how it feels. After playing Portal, I wanted to 
 drive up to Valve headquarters and give everybody there a hug, and as I sloppily sobbed into their 
 arms (or possibly security's arms as they escorted me out) thank them for making an amazing game. 
 I literally haven't felt this great about a game since Portal, and my faith and confidence in Valve 
 is at an all time high.
  
  Furthermore, it's about zombies. 
  
  I've played a number of zombie shooters, and while I do enjoy them, few get it right. One of the 
 few that did was Resident Evil 4, and while not technically a FPS, it captured the same feel, and 
 did zombie horror particularly well. However, this is nothing like that. This is a zombie survival 
 simulator. And like everything Valve does, it is made of win and good.
  
  There is no tangible plot, save that you are one of a group of four survivors, trying to make it 
 to the safe zone in a number of scenarios. The characters are a grizzled veteran, an angry biker, 
 a black office guy, and a youngish girl. There is little development, but the one liners the characters 
 spew out are fantastic, and the graffiti messages on the walls of safe houses really add to that 
 atmosphere- people leave messages to each other along the lines of, "I killed 153 zombies today." 
 "James, if you're reading this, look for us at the farmhouse. I love you, Mary." and the like. 
 And on the note of the atmosphere, while the action is incredibly intense, the atmosphere is there. 
 As someone who admires subtlety and a certain level of artistry in creating gaming atmosphere, 
 I was amazed at how well the levels were crafted with an amazing apocalyptic feel. Furthermore, 
 the beautiful sound work only serves to increase that feeling, as like in Silent Hill, you hear 
 the monsters well before you see them. The nervous tension in this game is absolutely great, and 
 with the difficulty constantly changing to match the player's skill, it is constantly at the perfect 
 level of intensity- it's never insanely hard, but it's not easy either. If you do stupid stuff, 
 you will most likely die. If you stay with your team, conserve ammo, and don't mess around, your 
 chances are greatly improved. 
  
  And then there's the graphics. The Source engine still looks beautiful, even after all these years. 
 The zombies look wonderful, and despite there being some lack of variation, you rarely see zombies 
 long enough to really pay attention to their appearance too much. And I have a feeling that they'll 
 be releasing expansions with more levels, more zombie skins, and hopefully more weapons. Not to 
 say that the current selection of weapons is bad- you have pistols, shotguns, uzis, M-16s, and 
 sniper rifles, as well as pipe bombs and Molotov cocktails. However, part of me would prefer to 
 have some sort of heavy revolver instead of the generic pistol, or a AK-47 instead of the m-16. 
 Also, the lack of crowbar hurts me deeply inside. 
  
  The sound design is wonderful. The music is ambient, with some actual tunes at the end fights that 
 fit in seamlessly with the intense battles, despite having a somewhat campy quality to them- much 
 like a zombie movie, which this game bases itself on. The weapons sound wonderful, and the zombies 
 make all sorts of wonderful gurgling and moaning noises, and all in all, it's beautifully horrifying 
 to listen to. 
  
  Overall, this game seems to be perfect. I've only beaten a few campaigns, but so far as I can tell, 
 it is wonderfully done, and lives up completely to the hype. Valve, you gave us Portal, The Half 
 Life series, Team Fortress 2, and now Left 4 Dead. 
  
  Thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mooch35
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2008 12:18 am PT
Review:  Sure, the zombies spawn in different places every time, but there's only 4 or 5 campaigns with 
 5 levels each. It really is quite fun and it's a good thing they added the vs multiplayer, otherwise 
 I'd say forget it. I've almost played 50 hours so far. Maybe I just made the mistake of playing 
 too much at one time because it can be addictive. Controls aren't too bad in this game. Everything 
 is very simple. Can't complain with the HL2 engine. People complain that the graphics aren't phenominal 
 but they're not horrible either. At least this way you don't need a super computer to run it. More 
 campaigns would be nice....
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EAisMyInitials
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 9:57 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting for a good zombie game to come and for me, the wait is over.
  
  Set in a post-apocalyptic time, a rabies like infection turns non-ammune (susceptible to the infection) 
 humans into psychotic lunatics that are hell bent on killing any survivor they find. There are 
 4 main characters ; Bill (a vietnam veteran) , Francis (a tattoo covered biker) , Louis (African-American 
 electronics store manager) and Zoey (a teenage daughter to a wealthy family) .
  
  Each character has over 1000 lines of speech, and Valve has done a great job by not making them 
 dry and repetitive every time you hear them. The range of weapons is shorter than i would have 
 liked, but they are all very unique and are effective in some places and may also be ineffective 
 in others. Normally, a pistol will be your weak backup weapon in other games, but left 4 dead changes 
 this. I usually find myself whipping out the pistol (s) to cap infected that don't know i am there 
 yet, and score a headshot. When you are incapacitated and bleeding out, you have to rely on the 
 pistol. I use the primary weapons against huge hordes. There is the uzi, the pump-action shotgun, 
 hunting rifle, assault rifle and auto shotgun. Explosives are pipe bomb and molotov.
  
  There are 4 campaigns (or movies) with 5 levels each. They are dead air, no mercy, blood harvest 
 and death toll.
  
  The A. I Director is great. Random zombies in random places really satisfied me. The music director 
 is also very well designed. Like when a horde is coming you hear drums playing wildly. Kudos to 
 Valve.
  
  I would like to add that the sound effects are great in this game. Gunshots, zombie sounds, fall 
 sounds, tank sounds, everything.
  
  The atmosphere in left 4 dead is very creepy and will keep you on edge. Lighting is very well designed 
 and when there is no infected around you are on the edge of your seat.
  
  Playing as the boss infected is actually way more fun than playing as survivors. Theres the boomer 
 (attracts the horde with his bile) , the smoker (strangles survivors with his 50 foot tongue) , 
 the hunter (pounces survivors) , the tank (huge, strong infected that is very hard to kill) and 
 the witch, she sits and crys until you startle her and she may easily kill you. DO NOT DISTURB.
 
  
  Online multiplayer is well thought out as well. Dont know anything else to say here...
  
  There are a few things that keeps the game from getting a ten. If you press f on the machine 
 gun it will go crazy and flicker the light on and off. Sometimes the zombies get stuck on walls 
 and floors which is very wierd.
  
  Overall, left 4 dead is a great and thrilling game that you should get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toriko42
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  When it was announced that Valve was working on a zombie game using the source engine, unprecedented 
 excitement occurred. Many wondered what the creators of many beloved games would do next. When 
 it was announced it would be a mainly co-op game with a unique versus mode, more excitement only 
 came and many wondered if Valve could make another huge impact upon the online world. I can say 
 without a shadow of a doubt that Valve has indeed lived up to their promise. By giving four amazingly 
 fun co-op campaigns and a great online versus mode as well, Valve has sealed their status as being 
 the premier online gaming developers. Left 4 Dead is a zombie lovers paradise and has gotten both 
 the atmosphere and the gameplay perfected for any zombie game. Sadly there are some issues with 
 the lack of content but this is something that will be corrected given Valve's track record on 
 updates. The source engine is also high modabble as well and there are numerous mods in the work 
 already at this point including four campaigns based on Dawn of the Dead.
  
  Left 4 Dead doesn't really have a story so to speak. There are four movies that take roughly half 
 an hour or so to play depending on your difficulty. On expert modes they can take as long as two 
 hours due to the difficulty and careful precision planning involved. The stories for all of them 
 are simple, get to point X and call for the transport vehicle out of there. All the campaigns though 
 have an original backdrop. No Mercy takes place in a hospital for instance while Blood Harvest 
 takes place in a cornfield. Dead Air takes place in an Airport and Death Toll takes place in the 
 isolated town of Riverside. All of these campaigns share one thing in common, they all attempt 
 to recreate the B-movie atmosphere and the game does this perfectly. With the film grain, the movie 
 posters in the loading screen and just the B-movie cast list complete with the cheesy lines the 
 game nailed the coffin shut with their attention to the details. The game also never takes itself 
 to seriously with lines like, "An abandoned house in the middle of the woods? I know how this ends..." 
 The game doesn't strive to be anything serious, it just wants to be arcade action fun with zombies 
 and it does this perfectly.
  
  The characters are great fun. There is Zoey, the girl of the group, Louis the African-American 
 office worker, Bill the Vietnam veteran and Francis the biker. None of these characters are original 
 but they are a lot of fun and fit well with the intended atmosphere. Though they aren't developed, 
 they are likable characters because of what they say and how they act. The game is actually quite 
 funny and this is all due to the cleverly written dialogue and well executed characters.
  
  The gameplay in Left 4 Dead is quite simply. Each campaign has five parts, your goal is to get 
 to the safehouse at the end of each chapter, restock and kill more zombies. You start with an Uzi 
 and a Shotgun but later on you can move up to better weapons and explosives. You can also throw 
 gas cans to start fires which is always fun. The game has great combat and with an easy melee button 
 it's a lot of fun. The game is very addictive but one desires new weapons. Luckily Valve has given 
 new weapons in updates in the past and I am sure they will again.
  
  Each level is designed well and creates for many confrontations with the zombie horde. When the 
 action is frentic, the game is at it's best. You feel like you're in an action movie and that you 
 are just inhuman. The game makes you feel like Bruce Campbell and for any B-movie fan this is a 
 great thing indeed. The combat really holds itself throughout and is extremely fun and addictive. 
 The controls are easy, intuitive, and casual at heart. You'll have no difficulty picking up and 
 playing Left 4 Dead.
  
  The versus mode is another feature entirely. If you're a survivor its the same deal. You have to 
 get to the other points and basically survive but if you're a zombie you get a completely different 
 and challenging experience depending on your class. You either spawn as a hunter, smoker, or boomer 
 and you have to hunt down the survivors using your special skills. The smoker can strangle, the 
 boomer can puke zombie attracting bile and the hunter can pounce. Once in a while someone will 
 spawn as a tank which is greatly satisfying. Being a zombie is a challenge since you die quickly 
 but getting a perfect attack together or catching that stray survivor is so satisfying it makes 
 all the pain worth it. The versus mode is quite unique and one that'll last a while though for 
 some reason only two campaigns are playable online at the moment.
  
  Overall the graphics are top notch in Left 4 Dead. The game uses the source engine which is renowned 
 for it's technical prowess despite being a pretty old engine as far as graphics go. The game looks 
 fantastic to say the least and handles hundreds of zombies on screen with no problems. It runs 
 well on any PC as well and as long as you keep your drivers updated you should be able to run the 
 game at 60FPS if you meet the requirements fully. The game has nice physics and visual effects 
 to with some amazing physics and explosions. The gore physics are also great and watching any limb 
 fly off never gets old. It's a great looking game to say the least.
  
  The sound is also top notch, the game has a great ominous soundtrack which fits perfectly into 
 the atmosphere. The game also has great voice acting despite the limited dialogue in the game. 
 The characters come to life through this acting except for Francis who is a bit flat. The zombie 
 sound effects are perfect and their wails and screeches will send a shiver down your spine.
  
  What will ultimately determine your level of enjoyment with this game is a variety of factors:
 
  
  1) Do you like Zombies? If you answer no ignore this game altogether as you're wasting your time 
 here
  
  2) Do you like co-op? If no then you have no reason to bother as well, co-op is the lifeblood of 
 this game
  
  3) Do you have some friends playing it? Though it is not mandatory your enjoyment increases tenfold 
 with some good friends playing with you. If not there are plenty of others to play with many of 
 whom are good team members.
  
  4) Do you not like online? If you don't care for online don't bother. Online is all that matters 
 in this game.
  
  Overall Left 4 Dead is an excellent game with simple pick up and play gameplay. The online mode 
 is quite fun and the future of this game looks bright with the amount of custom content on the 
 horizon. Given Valves penchant for updating their games I am confidant Left 4 Dead will get some 
 nice updates in the future with more weapons or maybe a new campaign. Though a bit short on content, 
 Left 4 Dead will delight fans of Zombies and Co-op. If you crave slaughtering the undead online, 
 you owe it to yourself to pick up this game.
  
  Pros: Excellent zombie co-op action, all four campaigns are stellar, challenging and rewarding 
 versus mode, perfect atmosphere, funny, high chance of great mods and maps
  
  Cons: Why only two campaigns in versus? A bit short on content. With stupid teammates game can 
 be a drag.
  
  Overall: A superb online shooter worth checking out if you crave the undead slaughter 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Human_Flaw
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Left For Dead (L4D) is a solid first person shooter-slash-zombie onslaught game. It is built on 
 the reliable Source Engine from Valve, and combines fast and furious gun play with just the right 
 amount of down time, so you and your team mates can catch a badly needed breath just when you need 
 it.
  
  The core mechanics of the game are simple: In Single Player and CO-Op mode you (and your AI, or 
 fellow human online players) play four survivors who are trying to make their way through zombie 
 infested cities and urban areas to safe rooms and extraction points. You are allowed one primary 
 weapon (shot gun; M16; Uzi; automatic shot gun; M14 with scope) and one secondary weapon (single 
 45, or dual wielded 45s) . You can also carry one of two types of explosives such a a molatov cocktail, 
 or pipe bomb. You are also allowed one medical kit that you can use on yourself, or heal other 
 team mates with. You can also exchange items like pain pills to keep your team mates alive when 
 there are no med kits left. 
  
  The main difference L4D brings to the first person shooter-slash-CO-OP gaming experience is the 
 amount of ammunition and supplies (med kits, explosives, pills) is finite and limited to whatever 
 you and your team can scavenge around the maps. These stashes are randomized every time you play. 
 This makes team work and resource conservation paramount to surviving the Zombie ambushes that 
 can happen anywhere and at any time. This is also what gives L4D tremendous replay value both online 
 and off. The AI "Director" automatically adjusts the amount of Zombies, including Boss Zombies 
 like the Tank, Smoker, Boomer, and Witch, to suit the player (s) skill. If your team are chewing 
 through Infected left and right, the Director might spawn two, or three Tank zombies to even the 
 fight. In addition, Zombie spawn placement is also randomized in both CO-OP and Single Player and 
 this also adds infinite replay value as well.
  
  The Versus mode of L4D allows you and fellow human players to become the Infected and try and stop 
 the opposing team of human survivors (players) from reaching their goals. It is a natural extension 
 of the core concept, but takes some getting used to until players are familiar with the special 
 abilities their Infected characters possess. The players switch sides after each win, so there 
 is never any team stacking, and players must know how to play either side to their fullest. In 
 short, versus mode is very reminiscent of the "Alien vs. Predator" mode those series of games shipped 
 with.
  
  As with all games, L4D has it shortcomings as well. The main one is that the actual gun play, while 
 satisfying overall, becomes repetitive and monotonous after just a few hours. 
  
  There is nothing more satisfying than sniping, or shooting Infected and watching the Havok physics 
 engine kick in and the bodies slump to the ground in realistic ways. Or, fall off roof tops and 
 tumble backwards over rails and hit the ground with a sickening thud. However, the thrill of witnessing 
 these deaths quickly diminishes after you see it for the hundredth time... And you will see these 
 over-the-top, rag doll deaths hundreds of times before you and your team complete a level. 
  
  The other drawback directly related to this monotony is the weapon stopping power is too arcade 
 to be taken seriously as is your character's melee abilities. You can single-handily knock back 
 three, or four zombies with one melee swing and then gun down six or seven Infected with just a 
 few bursts of whatever weapon you are using. This makes the game too easy in a number of situations 
 where you and your team would normally be outnumbered and already dead. 
  
  Technically, the game runs very well given the tech (engine) behind it. You don't need high end 
 hardware to get the best visuals, or performance out of L4D. There are occasional slow downs, but 
 this is to be expected considering the game can sometimes render 50, or more Infected swarming 
 you and your team at any given time. I am actually amazed at how well the game *does* run given 
 the amount of characters rendered and AI routines being processed. However, this also might also 
 be a negative considering the Source engine is now officially four years old and it is starting 
 to show its age. A game like this should not be at Crysis rendering levels, but the environments 
 do look dated and very Half-Life II/Counter-Strike-Source-like because this is the underlying code 
 behind it. 
  
  To sum it up, Left Four Dead is a competent and just down right fun game. It is has its strong 
 points in its simplicity of design and execution along with its unprecedented replay value. These 
 same strengths are its very same weaknesses, unfortunately. There is definitely some fun to be 
 had online, or on LAN with four or more friends (for Versus) , but whether or not there is enough 
 here to sustain a long-lasting community is yet to be seen. Valve and Turtle Rock Studios have 
 promised more "episodes" a. k. a. maps, and possibly other download content like additional weapons. 
 However, again, whether that will be enough to maintain a lasting community is currently up in 
 the air right now as L4D is still relatively new. 
  
  If you are looking for some mindless fun, either online, or off, I highly recommend Left Four Dead 
 based purely on the fact there is no game currently like this (barring the free Counter-Strike 
 Source Zombie Mod) and you have to experience it to believe it for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerkat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead has been called the game of the year by many gamers. Well, I dont think its worthy 
 of game of the year.
  The game has 4 players playing a campaign through 4 "scenes". Well, thats really a great idea, 
 but there isnt a story. You pretty much go from point A to point B, but for no obvious reason. 
 In a zombie world, you have to escape, but there is no indication of how and who is going to rescue 
 you. 
  There is a single player version of the campaign, and there is another game mode, versus mode.
 
  In versus mode, you pretty much take the role of either the survivors or the stronger zombies. 
 Often you get heavy amounts of lag, because you dont know if the server steam chooses is in your 
 area or not. You also get grouped with newbies, who often dont know how to play. 
  While the concepts in Left 4 Dead are very good, there is definitely a poor execution. This in 
 no way is a Team Fortress 2 or Counter Strike Source killer. For $50, it will pass by in a couple 
 of weeks.
  The graphics are very nice, with my 8800gt cooled by an Arctic cooling S1, it runs super smooth 
 at 1680*1050. However, there are numerous bugs with nvidia cards, and some can cause major crashes. 
 Processor bugs are also very apparent, you sometimes have to set your processor affinity to 1 cpu 
 to not get slowdown and major hitches.
  Aside from the issues I have stated, this is a good game, but its nothing like a good zombie game 
 should be. There is no story, and the online is not as smooth as the other competitors such as 
 TF2 and CSS. Wait till it drops in price before you pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ambidxtrous
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  I really like the mechanics built from Valve. Very smooth controls, awesome graphics, no glitches; 
 one of those pick up and play video games. I really like this game because it focuses on team effort. 
 Yeah you're just shooting zombies all over the place, but because it's team focused, most of your 
 attention is actually placed on weather your team mates have enough energy, are in need, or are 
 contributing, etc. If you haven't purchased this game, BUY IT. It's a must own for any PC gamer.
 
  
  The Cons:
  
  The only thing I don't care too much about this game is the versus mode. I understand why they 
 put it in, but it's not good at all. You can be the zombie, but you die so fast. I would have rather 
 enjoyed going heads up between players, but I understand that Valve can't make the team go against 
 eachother. So it would have been cool if they had just gave guns to Zombies and gone heads up.
 
  
  Graphics: 10
  Controls: 9.5
  Gameplay: 8.5
  Sound: 8.5
  Music: n/a
  
  If I had any suggestions to improve this game?
  
  1. Remove Versus, and add some other Mode
 
  2. More Enemies other than Hunter, Witch, Etc.
  3. Make environment more interactive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grillbar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  over all the game is really great
  the graficks is not awsome but its dossent have to be since you rarely see details your to bussy 
 staying alive, and the things you see (like the zombie's)
  are done really good they godt a good range of different looks ekspressions and are doing different 
 zombie like things when not being shot at like standing sitting leaving against a wall puking fighting 
 amounst eatch other nomal zombie things
  there are not a hole range of didderent zombie there are the nomal running after you to attack 
 and dont stop untill you put them down and the special zombies with are nice for a change
  the multiplayer is awsome best with 3 other freinds and werth playing for hours
  
  allthough 
 if your playing solo the ai is doing good but the hole game just gets old really fast due to the 
 fact that there are only 4 "movies" as they are called so you pretty mutch know the way of every 
 map fast and there is only 4 times of weapons machine gun shotgun hand gun and rifle /w scope and 
 then there is a better version of the machine gun and the shotgun. the rifle is really a waste 
 since there arent really anywhere it can be used proberly
  
  so if they will give left 4 dead more maps a wider range of weapons this would be mutch better
 
  
  still if you got freinds to play with its awsome 
  if not well then to bad so sad find some or you will quickly feel like you wasted your money (after 
 about oh i dont know 20+ hours)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brother_Tevis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is nothing short of spectacular. It is a blast every single time. It delivers in every 
 respect, and has a replayability that I can't even understand. I've yet to play single player, 
 because honestly, if you have an internet connection, there isn't much of a reason to. The only 
 reason I could see would be for achievement hunting, but that's more fun to do online with some 
 friends. The campaign is great in multiplayer, and the more live players you've got the more fun 
 it is. And the versus mode is great. I wasn't expecting to enjoy playing as the boss zombies, but 
 it is possibly the most fun part of the game. Talking with your team to come up with a plan to 
 ambush, and overwhelm the survivors. To sum things up, everyone who has the capacity to, should 
 get this game, one hundred percent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greatpacha
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 11:03 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 dead is one of the most thrilling, and even hilarious game to play with your friends in 
 co-op or versus mode. The game changes every time your team gets knocked out and has to restart 
 from the previous checkpoint, which in turns make it different and unpredictable every time. The 
 game is quite simple if you play it on the lower difficulties, Expert is recommended for the FPS 
 lover who likes a serious challenge, especially in co-op mode. Overall great game with an amazing 
 multiplayer incentive. Also, left 4 dead doesnt leave any aspect of a zombie apocalypse to be simple 
 while playing on expert level. While playing, you are guaranteed to fight multiple hordes of regular 
 zombies, but also to fight at least one witch and a tank as well, which both add much excitement 
 due to there unique challenge. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 2:52 am PT
Review:  In short and to the point...
  
  GOOD.
  - Good Multiplayer.
  - Solid gameplay.
  - Good level design.
  -----------------------------------------------------------
  ----------------------------------------------------------
 
  BAD
  - Single player is lacking and becomes boring fast.
  - Shallow story
  - Graphics look a bit old at times.
  - Few maps.
  - Some little annoying things
  -----------------------------------------------------------
 
  CONCLUSION
  Its a solid MMO game in reality as the single player part is lacking in many ways.
  If you are 
 a Single player fan and you love a good and deep story with a cinematic feel you will be very disappointed 
 .
  The game is unfortunately very shallow and its mainly for multiplayer skirmish fests.
  
  SCORES
  Graphics =7.5 
  Sound = 9.0
  Gameplay = 8.4
  
  Final Score = 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ping5000
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2008 12:02 am PT
Review:  It's tough to not associate Valve with quality at this point, so it's no surprise to see that their 
 latest, Left 4 Dead, is completely awesome. It successfully blends the cinematic and grandiose 
 qualities of their single-player epics with the social and competitive chaos that's associated 
 with all great multi-player games. Even more, all of this is set in the midst of a zombie apocalypse 
 and all the potential dread and intensity associated with this setting is completely and utterly 
 exploited. If it isn't obvious already, Left 4 Dead is easily one of the best games of the year 
 and one of the best co-op experiences you'll have, ever.
  
  Two weeks after all hell broke loose, it's you and three others simply trying to get out of the 
 quarantine zone. It's very simple and there is no developing narrative, but like most of Valve's 
 games, you get a good sense of the state of the world by just playing. Abandoned vehicles, wrecked 
 metro stations, the writing scrawled all over the walls in every safe house. They do a great job 
 of establishing that the infected rule over whatever is left and that you're definitely in the 
 minority. Even the four characters you can play as are injected with enough personality that they're 
 far from just four different skins to choose from. They'll occasionally exchange lines with each 
 other and they're always funny, really establishing a sense of bond and friendship. For a multi-player 
 centric game, it's amazing how Valve extrapolates the strong narrative and immersive qualities 
 of their single-player games and integrates them seamlessly into Left 4 Dead.
  
  That said, those qualities are more complimentary than anything. The core gameplay needs to function 
 and Left 4 Dead practically shines. Initially, it's deceptively simple. Shoot every infected bastard 
 you see and move on. It's initially underwhelming, but it doesn't take long to realize that teamwork 
 is mandatory. You simply can't go rogue. Going on too far on your own usually means you'll be incapacitated 
 by special infected types and leaving behind stragglers equals the same result. It takes time to 
 revive a player or heal, forcing everyone to cover each other's backs. Friendly fire is always 
 on, so you have to be careful with where you fire and to also not run into a teammate's line of 
 fire. The more you are injured, the slower your run speed, causing the entire team to slow down 
 with you, or patch you up. Little, subtle, easy-to-understand gameplay mechanics like these do 
 such a great job of enforcing teamwork and it's what makes Left 4 Dead so brilliant.
  
  Sticking together, healing each other and generally informing each other of any given situation 
 creates a genuine sense of camaraderie, even with strangers on public lobbies. Half of this has 
 to do with the hostile world of the game and the other half comes from the gameplay. It's a successful 
 marriage of two totally different things that coalesce and creates the bigger picture you experience 
 when playing. The game is really at its best when that hostility reaches the breaking point and 
 the skills you've attained and learned are pushed to the limit. Chatter from all your teammates 
  all the screaming, all the tactical updates, all the panicky chatter  that occurs when hordes 
 of 40 to 50 creates an experience so authentic that Left 4 Dead stirs emotions you'd probably feel 
 if you really were in a zombie apocalypse. Most of this is attributed to the impressive and almost 
 flawless infected AI. For what they are, they move and run with startling realism and considering 
 the amount of them coming after you in any given moment, they practically never run into any pathfinding 
 issues. They're extremely convincing adversaries; they climb, hurdle and jump over anything that's 
 in their way to get to you. There's no full-proof method to exploit any problems with the AI, because 
 there really are none. 
  
  A potential problem that could've diluted this sheer, visceral experience was if the game became 
 predictable. With only four campaigns that last a little over an hour, you could potentially determine 
 every spawn point, every ammo pile and so on, but Valve avoids what could've been a disastrous 
 flaw by going procedural. Everything that is placed and triggered on the map is determined by the 
 Director. This ominous figure basically checks up on how you and your team are doing and then calls 
 the shots. The result? Maps are always constant, they never physically change, but infected spawns 
 and items placements are always different. Sometimes a room might contain an abundance of supplies, 
 a group of zombies or simply nothing. You might run into a horde trigger or you might just run 
 by with no problems. This feeling of uncertainty creates an undeniable sense of tension and boosts 
 the replay value of the campaign tenfold, which is arguably the most important thing the Director 
 provides. It also creates a difficulty level that's just right; the game's never too easy or too 
 unforgiving. Chances are you'll barely straggle onto the next safe house, which makes surviving 
 that much sweeter and rewarding.
  
  But, let's say you want something more competitive, something a bit more traditional. Left 4 Dead's 
 8-player versus mode fills that gap. Four survivors and four infected types go head-to-head and 
 every round consists of both groups swapping roles. The survivors try to make it to the safe house 
 and the infected attempt to stop them. On the survivor side, it actually feels quite different 
 than the co-op campaign. There's an added sense of urgency, because you're going against human 
 opponents and they spawn much more often, really pushing you to move forward and little else.
 
  
  On the infected side, it's totally different and arguably the most fun aspect of the game. You'll 
 spawn randomly as one of the special infected types, except for the witch, and each one plays differently; 
 hunters pounce on survivors to take down stragglers or brash rogue survivors; smokers attack from 
 a distance with their ability drag survivors away; boomers vomit on survivors, which attracts the 
 horde and shooting them results in splash damage, which can spread its bile on more survivors. 
 And on occasion, infected players will be able control the tank, a steroid-infused monstrosity 
 with a penchant for beating the crap out of everything.
  
  There's an entirely new teamwork dynamic that stems out of this, because unlike the survivors, 
 each infected brings their own unique qualities to the table. For example, a boomer can vomit all 
 over an unsuspecting survivor, while hunters and smokers try to separate the team, causing panic 
 on their end and hilarity on yours. It's amazingly fun and quite possibly the best part of Left 
 4 Dead. The only glaring problem with versus is that only two of the campaign maps are available 
 for use. This restriction seems arbitrary, but with so many ways to attack on a map, it doesn't 
 limit the replay value that much.
  
  When it comes to looks and sounds, Valve certainly delivers. The latest version of the Source engine 
 provides the best-looking Source game outside of Team Fortress 2, which is still on an entirely 
 different league of its own. Filmic effects, like grain and strong contrast lighting, never gets 
 overbearing and only adds to the game's atmosphere. Character models look outstanding and while 
 you won't always get a good look at their faces, they're very, very emotive. The attention to detail 
 is much appreciated, rather than overlooked. Perhaps the greatest visual strength is the game's 
 excellent usage of lighting. It's brilliant when muzzle flashes grant only brief, spastic movements 
 of a horde and reloading completely blinds you, inducing panic. There's also a surprising amount 
 of visual variety throughout all four campaigns, really keeping things fresh. Granted, upon closer 
 inspection, you're going to notice some average-looking textures and some bland areas (sewers in 
 particular) , but you won't have a lot of time to complain. And since this is a Source game, it'll 
 probably run on a monitor hooked up to a potato. At its lowest settings, it looks like Half-Life 
 2, which isn't a bad thing at all.
  
  Just like the strong visual presentation, Left 4 Dead's audio delivers in spades. Its dynamic music 
 is particularly well done. It'll change and shift depending on the situation and just like a lot 
 of things with the game, it adds to the constant tension. Voice-acting is pitch-perfect across 
 the board, sound effects are excellent and zombies sound appropriately pissed. There's little to 
 fault; it's superb.
  
  There's a lot of irrelevant nitpicks you could call out, like limited weapon selection and how 
 going through the campaign with bots isn't as fun (you really shouldn't be playing this if you're 
 here for the single-player) . There is, however, the question of the game's staying power. As much 
 as the Director changes things up all the time, these are just four campaigns and only two of those 
 works with versus. The content available as of right now can last weeks, but months? Not so sure. 
 Valve has promised to support Left 4 Dead like they have for Team Fortress 2, so no worries for 
 future content, but admittedly, the retail package could've benefited from an extra campaign or 
 two. It also could've used some more developer commentary, too, because they're always excellent.
 
  
  Considering the amount of games that have made their way to retail throughout this holiday season, 
 Left 4 Dead stands as one of the few that you simply must buy. It's an atmospheric, immersive co-op 
 experience from both the survivor and infected perspective and it's all polished to a mighty, brilliant 
 sheen. If you're still not sure, just knowing Left 4 Dead is under the Valve name should be enough. 
 In a perfect world, Left 4 Dead would have had just a bit more content, but what we get is still 
 more than filling. Enjoy it, love it and then spend weeks exhausting what the game has to offer. 
 Make some memories and have boatloads of fun. Left 4 Dead is simply spectacular. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggy887766
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Once in a while a game will come along and completely blow your mind... this is one of those games. 
 Left 4 Dead is hands down the best co-op shooter out there. Like every other game though l4d has 
 its flaws. 
  
  -Cons
  1. Not much depth for casual gamers playing on normal or easy
  2. Only 4 campaigns to play through is a bit of a let down
  3. Make sure you play co-op with 
 people you know or you will get 
  an idiot
  
  -Pros 
  1. HOURS and HOURS of playtime in advanced and expert modes
  2. Versus kicks the difficulty through 
 the roof.
  3. Plenty of dialogue for just 4 characters
  4. Pipe bombs and molotovs are extremely useful in emergency 
  situations.
  5. The finales 
 are great and on expert is insane, props to anyone 
  beating all 4 campaigns on expert.
  
  Hopefully valve will release an expansion pack soon to add some more campaigns. 
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Full review and score breakdown here:
  http://www. poland. us/strona,33,3361,0. html
  
  Valve seems to be all over the place these days: they have their legendary Half-life series as 
 the frontrunners of their legacy, as well as many other IPs such as the cartoonish Team Fortress 
 and sterile but brain-challenging Portal. The bewildering thing is how good each of these franchises 
 has become, despite their embracement of radically different ideas. Valve simply makes something 
 for everyone, whether you be a lover of drama and new gameplay ideas, multiplayer fragging, or 
 puzzle-solving. Consequently, it wasn't surprising to see the overly positive reaction to the announcement 
 of Left 4 Dead (aka L4D) , Valve's first entry into the crowded co-op genre. Does Left 4 Dead live 
 up the hype? Oh, hell yes.
  
  L4D takes Valve into realms that they've previously dabbled with but haven't really committed to: 
 zombies and horror. Although Half-life's headcrabs/headcrab zombies are universally accepted as 
 some of the most startling enemies to ever grace an FPS, they have never been a real focus of any 
 of Valve's games. L4D plunges the player into a world of devastation and despair, with the character 
 playing as one of a gang of four cut off from the rest of civilization, fighting to survive a zombie 
 apocalypse. In a surprise move by Valve, plot isn't a main focus here. You're basically thrust 
 into 4 "campaigns" or movies, that deal with the group's escape at each location. The environments 
 are quite varied, ranging from cities to forests to graveyards to farmlands.
  
  While there isn't much character development, Valve does manage to inject personality into its 
 characters using a similar method to the one they used in TF2. In specific situations, different 
 survivors will say different things, gradually revealing their personality and standing in the 
 group. For example, Francis, the stereotypical white motorist, reveals his caring side when he 
 heals someone, saying things along the lines of, "Ah, come here, I'll heal ya." Bill, the war vet, 
 shows his leadership and experience through his general command of the group, offering compliments 
 to those with good ideas and calmly pushing the group on. Although there isn't much story and character 
 development, Valve creates enough of a backdrop and sufficient character relationships to satisfy 
 most players. There is a sense of desperation and confusion, as you aren't told exactly who you 
 are, what started this outbreak, or what's happening out there in the world: in essence, It's a 
 fight for short-term survival.
  
  L4D's gameplay boils down to this: each chapter is essentially a linear path which you must take 
 to get to the next chapter and eventually finish a campaign. Along the way, you will encounter 
 and fight a multitude of zombies. What prevents this from becoming a repetitive, one-off affair 
 is the inclusion of technology known as the AI Director. This is your "real" enemy in the game: 
 the Director monitors the performance and skill of each player and the group, and spawns enemies 
 accordingly. It also attempts to mix up the pacing of each round, making each turn and open door 
 a mystery, even after having played through a chapter dozens of times. Zombies never come from 
 the same place every time, therefore exponentially increasing the replayability of the game.
  
  Speaking of zombies, there are several interesting types that you end up fighting. The grunts 
 of L4D are weak, 28 Days Later-type monstrosities. If you are able to coordinate and concentrate 
 fire on them, your team will find themselves wiping out wave upon wave with little difficulty. 
 The other types are what mix it up and ratchet up the difficulty. First up, you have the Hunter, 
 which jumps from wall to wall and eventually onto you or one of your teammates. In doing so, he 
 keeps you pinned, requiring your team to shoot him off before advancing. The Smoker has a long, 
 sticky tounge that he uses to grab onto players, reel them in, and eventually incapacitate them. 
 The Boomer is large and weak, but can retch bile on you that will attract a Horde of regular zombies, 
 often creating some frantic and desperate firefights. Last but not least, we have the Witch, the 
 most nefarious of them all. Once in a while, you'll find yourself hearing the crying of a woman. 
 DON'T approach, otherwise, you'll most likely find yourself dead. The Witch is spawned randomly 
 at different parts of different levels, requiring you to pass her withoutdisturbing her. This leads 
 to some interesting situations, where you'll encounter a hallway full of zombies but be unable 
 to shoot through them because of a Witch crying of to the side. She is beatable, but she can take 
 down the Survivors in nearly no time at all. All of these boss zombies are also controlled by the 
 AI director, meaning that they'll often end up ambushing you from the least likely points.
  
  Campaign/co-op is the star of the show here, but isn't the sole mode. There is also a versus 
 variant that pits 4 Survivors against 4 player-controlled zombies. The Survivors will have pretty 
 much the same objective as they do in the co-op, with the player-controlled Zombies attempting 
 to stop them. For the most part, the mode is intriguing and solid, but has some flaws. First of 
 all, not all of the maps from the campaign are supported in this mode, meaning there's inherently 
 less replayability. Secondly, the Survivors definitely have an overwhelming advantage 1v1 against 
 a player Infected. They have more health and the ability to shoot a gun. As an Infected, you'll 
 find yourself dying a lot. To offset this, you spawn pretty quickly and are placed in the most 
 opportune place by the AI Director. Just be prepared to die... a lot. Otherwise, playing as an 
 Infected is interesting, allowing you to combine powers and abilities to chip away at the Survivors' 
 cohesion and strength. A Boomer might wait for the survivors to pass a doorway, retching on them 
 and unleashing the horde, creating a distraction for the Hunter to jump down and take out a Survivor. 
 There's a bunch of neat little scenarios that play out here, and its definitely a strong and fun 
 mode.
  
  Valve is known for presentation and Left 4 Dead doesn't disappoint. Using a further-enhanced version 
 of the Source Engine, L4D presents a variety of environments in each of the campaigns it contains. 
 They're not of super-high-quality, but this means that both the 360 and a wide range of PCs will 
 be able to play the game well. Music is appropriate and guns feel powerful.
  
  Speaking of the PC and Xbox 360, it should be obvious which version is superior due to Valve and 
 Source's roots. On a mid-range PC with a dual-core and a 8800GT, we were able to comfortably play 
 this game at 60 FPS in pretty much all levels of the game. Remember, this is with the extraordinary 
 amounts of Infected that Valve throws at you! On the 360, the game runs at a less-impressive clip 
 of 30 FPS, suffering from some lower-quality textures and character models. In addition, the pace 
 of the game, especially at higher difficulty levels, lends itself well to mouse and keyboard, allowing 
 you to take down waves of Infected with well-aimed shots. The game is simply more difficult on 
 the 360, with us having to struggle through Advanced on the first few playthroughs, a difficulty 
 level that we passed with relative ease on the PC. Regardless, even with these flaws, Left 4 Dead 
 is surprisingly fun game on the 360, its just better on the PC.
  
  Valve is part of an exclusive group of developers that is able to roll out crticial and commercial 
 hits almost without interruption. Left 4 Dead continues that legacy, offering one of the best cooperative 
 experiences of this generation and laying the groundwork for what could be a VERY profitable franchise.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: calamariaxo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  This game has everything that matters. Zombies, shotguns and co-op.
  The demo left me kind of disappointed, I felt like it didn't really challenge me a lot, and after 
 a few runs I cruised through expert with random pickup groups without anyone even needing med kits. 
 I was afraid the game would be this easy all the way through, boy was I mistaken.
  
  Even though the demo wasn't all I wanted, I decided to preload the game and give it a chance. The 
 feeling that it was all to easy was quickly squashed. After managing to get through the first 2 
 levels of No Mercy on expert my team (random pickups) and I ended up trying level 3 five times 
 before we finally got through, and we were in rough shape. After several more hours of trying level 
 4 people started leaving dazed and confused, but I sat back with a grin on my face. It wasn't too 
 easy after all.
  After getting a few friends together we did manage to beat No Mercy on expert, and after that took 
 care of Blood Harvest. Let me tell you though, you need a good team. One small mistake and you 
 could all be brainless hunks of flesh in no-time.
  
  I was very satisfied and decided to get my hands dirty with the Versus mode. It's the most awe-inspiring 
 amazing incredible multiplayer experience I've ever in my life had. It's so well balanced, so incredibly 
 deliciously devised you get hooked right away. Playing as the infected, setting up and planning 
 the next ambush, getting it all right and watching the survivors mill around in panic just makes 
 you laugh your evil laugh every time. And playing as the survivors really make you watch the corners, 
 listen for the sound queues and really pay attention. And you have to move fast.
  
  All in all it's an incredible package of fun and I'd recommend it to absolutely everyone who enjoys 
 fps games. The last few years have been sorely lacking in decent co-op games. Fret no more for 
 it's finally here. It's time to revel and enjoy this incredible experience with friends and random 
 gamers over and over (and over) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Total_mischief
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  I've had a blast playing this game since day one. And, believe me when I say I've never been a 
 fan of zombie-apocalypse games, but Valve really outdid themselves with Left 4 Dead. 
  
  I'll start with the Source engine. Their improved version works perfectly with this game, the ridiculous 
 (and I say this in a good way) amount of infected are coming in fluently and I never experience 
 any frame rate issues, without having the gaming rig of the year. Every vfx are very well rendered, 
 the sound is great (you know when a Hunter is about to pounce you from behind) and... everything 
 is there to give you a chill.
  
  Now, gameplay. Whether you play Infected or Survivors, the game is incredible. Very, very few bugs, 
 controls are smooth (this was more of a concern for the Infected) and the best part is playing 
 your cards right to make the Survivors piss their pants. The only real downside are the players 
 the running ahead on their own, but .. can't blame this on the game now, can I ?
  
  So, now, I'll say like Gamespot. This game is a thrill to play on both sides as long as you are 
 in multiplayer. The bots aren't really effective and it can be a pain to be play with them, but 
 hell, it's not meant to be played alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YoZbaNaToR
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 25, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  What makes a game? Is it just the graphics, story, and gameplay, or is it something deeper? 
  
  What separates the good ones from the mediocre? Well, I can name some characteristics from 
 the top of my head:
  
  Imagination, Craftsmanship, Storytelling, Characterization, Feeling, Depth, etc
  
  When you 
 come up with something new, you'll attract attention. Everyone will look your way whether they 
 liked what you crafted or not. Either way, your creation is unique, and you will most certainly 
 be praised for innovation.
  
  When you sit down to make a game, you could use an old engine, or start from scratch and create 
 a whole new one. You could let you imagination run free, and there's no telling what you might 
 come up with. 
  
  Not every story requires a "One upon a time And they lived happily ever after" scenario. A story 
 can be told in numerous ways, but as long as it all makes sense and sucks the audience in; it would 
 have fulfilled its role. Vice versa: Not every game requires a story, but those which lack one 
 won't really convey a message.
  
  When you're playing the protagonist, does he really need the ability to talk? 
  
  Yes, if the 
 creator wants you to become attached to him, because the latter ability gives your hero character 
 regardless whether you like him or not, and no, if the creator wanted you to focus on the gameplay 
 rather than on the story. 
  
  While playing the game, everything should feel right. Whether it has to do with the basic mechanics 
 or gameplay elements, you should be able to tackle obstacles with the right tools and make it satisfying 
 at the same time, but once the latter is used over and over again, will it still be satisfying 
 in the future, or will you toss it away for something more original?
  
  Depth to me is priceless. If you're a hardcore gamer, I'm pretty sure a game you've played at some 
 point affected, or might have even changed you life. Not all games come with trigger-happy protagonists 
 and enemies. Not all games focus on the big explosions and mayhem. War, sex, and gore sell, but 
 these attributes are being abused for profit rather than depth. Quality is being ignored, and eventually, 
 when a game with the slightest originality and innovation is released, you see gamers run to it 
 like sheep to the pasture. What kind of standards has the gaming community set for itself?
  
  Now ask yourself this:
  
  Is shooting hordes of zombies running your way something new 
 to the gaming industry? Are Francis, Louis, Bill, and Zoey important? Do they have unique attributes 
 and characteristics? Can they say more than five sentences each? Have you been attached to them? 
 
  
  Brutality is fun. Killing is fun. Gore is fun. But how long will it keep satisfying you? Will your 
 lust for zombie blood be quenched after the millionth zombie, or will it never be quenched? What 
 message has this game conveyed? Has it taught you something new? 
  
  Have you been touched by its story? I can answer that for you: No, because there is no story to 
 begin with. That will only leave you with three types of weapons, two types of explosives, and 
 one type of pistol to take on infinite hordes of zombies running your way.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rawr215
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2008 5:13 am PT
Review:  This game is so much fun whether you play campaign as the 4 human survivors or verses mode taking 
 turns as human survivors or the infected zombies. 
  
  i would not recommend playing this game too much as you will be hearing the pre-horde music, hordes 
 screaming, witches crying, smokers coughing, boomer... blarging (LOL?) , and hunters growling. I 
 just lost 3 hours of sleep due to hearing zombies all night long! 
  
  What I like most about this game is the co-op ability. This makes online games fun. Some games 
 allow people to play solo although they play among online players. NOT this game! You must play 
 with people as a team.
  
  
  What i hate most... people without a mic! You WILL NEED a mic in order to co-op with your team 
 (if online) , Or you guys will just die! Actually... what i hate most about this game is... something 
 i brought up from what i like most... This is a team based game, with that said, i hate random 
 online players who just runs around doing what ever they want. 
  
  In the end... great game. I gave it a 10 since this is my real first zombie game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pbrain1972
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 4:16 am PT
Review:  I love fps games and this is what a lot of gamers have been waiting for, it runs perfectly & fast 
 on my laptop at 1920x1200 (1x8800GTS) so no need to buy mental hardware, it sacrifices cutting 
 edge graphics (no crysis, but still looks good) in favour of fast paced action, the first time 
 i played and opened the stairwell actually scared me! i've never seen so many zombies on screen 
 at once... it's panic strewn brilliant! The 3 AI characters work really well and i can't fault it 
 (better than some of the real people i've played with online ;) ) to sum it up, it's like being 
 a survivor in 28 Days Later, the zombies are not the classic mindless crawlers, they'll run at 
 you... fast! and sometimes in packs of 30+!
  It's the only game i won't let my 7 year watch... it's that frightening, 18 cert is a bit OTT, maybe 
 15.
  if you buy one game Xmas... well recommended 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kalv
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2008 12:35 am PT
Review:  As excepted from Valve, a very immersive and addictive game. Very well made game that forces players 
 to work together and communicate in order to win. Playing on expert is extremely difficult. Probably 
 impossible to beat a campaign without having to start over the level at least once. When you do 
 play it on expert and you can't beat it you want to play it again and again until you beat it. 
 The most addictive game I ever played. The sound is absolutely brilliant, probably the best I have 
 ever heard. The music and voices of survivors and zombies is very unique and impressive. I have 
 two complaints, there are only 4 campaigns when it was released, but I'm sure Valve is going to 
 add more in the future. But in my opinion they should have released at least 6 campaigns when it 
 first came out. After all it is a full price game of 50$. My second complaint is there isn't enough 
 items and weapons, but again I'm sure they will add more in the future. If you have a 360 with 
 multiple controllers and friends that come over often, this game is a MUST.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  Sound 10/10
  Gameplay 9.5/10
  Value 7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockatanski
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  I haven't had this much fun playing co-op multiplayer Left 4 Dead as far as I can remember. If 
 there is a game that has less brains and more brawn, then this is it. Exploding heads, bad language, 
 no intelligent strategy apart from placing fuel tanks and petrol boxes in respective areas only 
 to blow the unliving nonsense out of these semi retarded zombies on ice (reminiscent of 28 days 
 later, NOT Romero zombies mind you) .. but let's face it.. it is excellent and amazing fun! 
  
  This is the new "gauntlet" of the millenium and I'm sure there's gonna be some amazing addons 
 around the corner like new campaigns, new weapons and please please please, new leaders and boss 
 monsters. 
  
  It is very good to see that each game is randomly set out with zombie placements and the occasional 
 (and best) part of the game - the horde attacks!!
  
  Great multiplayer support even on crappy pings. This is the new quick fix of the year and it's 
 good to see a real butchering zombie game apart from Resident Evil :)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent_both
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 1:29 pm PT
Review:  The intense action will keep you entertained for days and every replay is different with zombie 
 spawn points, team mates, difficulty and how 'Hard Core' you are lol. There are four campaigns each 
 with five chapters consisting of hundreds of zombies in each. The only downside is the engine is 
 getting a bit old but you don't really tend to notice it for theres too much going on in the screen 
 but i guess it also makes it faster on the internet. its a must for any gamer who enjoys a good 
 rampage and who must fill there blood lust. What they could have done better was instead of having 
 four characters for four different campaigns is have four different characters for each different 
 campaign because why the hell would you go back out into the zombie infested areas just to get 
 rescued again lol. All in all its the perfect online shooter for any gamer just maybe not any age. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulfulDAGGER
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  This was worth the wait. Spectacular game design and coop implementation. Let's hope we can see 
 more on this aspect. Half Life 3 coop? The imagination wanders with possibilities. A lot has gone 
 into this game and it shows. It's not your run of the mill zombie game. We have a new King of zombie 
 games and this it people. 
  Once again, the legends that are Valve have created something special for us. A game where you 
 and your friends (or smart A. I) work together to battle an seemingly endless onslaught of zombies. 
 We all love zombies as long as they aren't ripping our arms and legs off. The weapons and health 
 are well placed (expert/normal modes) in that area where you would need them most. 
  Graphics and gameplay are superb. The sounds set the tone and mood of the game. Gameplay can get 
 a little choppy in areas but nothing a patch or two can't fix. Subtle ambient details wallow around 
 the scene as you as your team battle through the darkened hellhole of a city collapsed. Multiplayer 
 is just as fun. Valve's Achievements system has been brought to this game and adds more replay 
 value to an already addictive game. 
  Can't wait to see what new maps/expansions are in the works from Valve and the huge Steam Community. 
 Good stuff here and a worthy candidate for PC Game Of The Year. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: g3noc1d3r
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  Left 4 dead is probably the best game i have played all year wait no i should say that better it 
 is the best game i have played all year. First off the plot is your a group of 4 survivors in a 
 zombie apocalypse , you get to choose your survivor of course but anyway yes its a great plot to 
 work with. The thing about the zombies though is that there not normal retarded slow moving things 
 there now fast and cunning and move in hordes which is great 4 them but bad 4 u. The graphics are 
 obviously great running off my high end pc ran at maxed out settings and a high resolution and 
 got it at 70 frames per second its obvious they tried more on how fast the game was than the graphics 
 that does not mean in anyway there bad there great and awesome. Okay the sound is also very great 
 running off my system it was top tier there the only games i could compare the sound to this year 
 which this still beats is silent hill 5 homecoming and dead space the sound is very great. The 
 game play is awesome in being a fps it very innovates things with some of the functions first off 
 the 180 degree spin helps so much since the zombies often surround u and then crouch thing also 
 helps to duck 4 cover in all the game play is also astonishing but there is only one thing i could 
 complain about this is that playing by yourself is not as fun as playing with 3 other friends but 
 thats okay. Now wait there is still more now to talk about mp which i have to say is fantastic 
 4v4 player matches one team takes control of survivors the other plays as zombies the human team 
 is basically just like the coop accept u can't revive a guy when there dead lol but anyway its 
 great the zombie team plays quite differently as u have special abilities like seeing through walls 
 and stuff they really add strategy to u surrounding the human team and killing them off. The servers 
 are lag free and never saw trash talkers everyone was playing 4 fun and thats what we got lots 
 of gory fun. As a fps it provides great weapons and uses and this is just probably the best game 
 of the year do i say to buy this game yes go make sure u buy this either on 360 or pc it is fairly 
 easy to run now go out there and get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Lancelot
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 1:52 am PT
Review:  What I love:
  I've never been big on games that don't have elobrate storylines or simple gameplay, mostly because 
 they've been dull and have nothing thrilling about them. Somehow though, and i'm still trying to 
 figure this out, Left 4 Dead has neither of these and is amazingly fun. One of the major factors 
 I know is the co-op play, i've never played a game were team work was so important, and since there's 
 only four people its easy to coordinate attacks and figure what you're going to do. Another thing 
 that helps keep it interesting is the 
  AI director, which makes every game slightly different, and i can say i have yet to play through 
 any map where everything was the same. Another nice feature is the versus mode where you play both 
 sides, as the survivors and the zombies, nothing extraordinary, but still a nice touch. The difficulty 
 levels are right on target, they say what they mean and it's not overly easy. Lastly this game 
 is just fun, plain and simple. 
  
  What I hate:
  There's only a few of these and there kind of major for a game as whole but really don't distract 
 you from the gameplay. My biggest gripe would have to be there's only four maps, I'm sorry but 
 i feel there should be like 8 or 10, quite frankly I feel a little ripped off for paying $50 and 
 only getting four maps. Next would be the guns, now like i said it doesn't really distract you 
 from the gameplay but it would be nice for a little change up on the weapons section. Lastly is 
 the storyline, I don't even care if it didn't have one, all I want is an explanation on the infection 
 part, they could of ripped it off of I am Legend for all I care, I just hate the fact that the 
 game itself doesn't explain what happened. 
  
  Overview:
  This game is just fun, all the negatives I have against still won't stop me from playing it almost 
 everynight, even if i'm playing the same map three times in one night, it's just cool to jump online, 
 play with some friends, and run around shooting 100's of zombies, I've said it once and I'll say 
 it again, repetition has never been so fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drealoth
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 1:09 am PT
Review:  This game is quite fun, but it needs a lot of work, and is sort of unfinished in its current state. 
 Multiplayer consists of two modes - campaign, where four people team up against the AI, and versus, 
 where two teams of four players take turns, with one player playing the survivors trying to reach 
 the exit of the level, and the other players play special infected trying to stop them. Each team 
 plays the level twice, once as the survivors, and once as the infected, and the best score wins.
 
  
  Survival is fun, but Versus mode is where the real challenge lies. Unfortunately, only two of the 
 campaign maps are available on versus right now. Hopefully they'll be released soon, and not as 
 (paid) DLC.
  
  There are a couple of problems. There are three main infected types hunters, smokers and boomers. 
 Hunters are the default attack class - they leap and pounce and do damage. Boomers run up and explode, 
 causing regular zombies to rush and surround players exploded on. Smokers drag players with their 
 tongue. The problem here is that the Smoker requires a fair amount of context to play - they need 
 to be able to drag survivors out of sight of the other survivors, as well as a decent amount of 
 skill on the player's part. Unfortunately they often are just a weak third hunter, since the player 
 which gets to be it is chosen randomly. This could be just that the game is new and people are 
 trying it out. though, so hopefully this will change as people get more familiar with it.
  
  On the survivor's part, more weapon variety would be nice. There are only 6 guns in the game, 
 not counting the pistol, and I don't know if we can call it a true zombie game without a chainsaw. 
 It's not that the weapons aren't balanced, but just that it's kind of boring getting the same shotgun 
 each time. Valve invented the gravity gun, surely they can do better.
  
  Balance is minor though, I'm sure that any small kinks will be worked out in a patch or two. The 
 biggest problem is the community right now. The infected team gets two hunters and a boomer most 
 of the time, which means that at any given time, at most three players can be incapacitated. This 
 means that teamwork is required, as the fourth player is key to being able to rescue people. Unfortunately, 
 many players prefer to go Rambo, and there is no way to give people reputation, so bad players 
 keep coming back. In most games, one team decimates the other team - I've played about 15 games 
 so far (each lasts about an hour) , only one has seemed somewhat balanced. This leads to players 
 quitting, which is okay on the survivor side, since AI takes over, but on the infected side, if 
 you have only one person spawning, while your spawn times are reduced, you can only take down one 
 person at a time - the AI doesn't help out at all. This doesn't usually matter though, since if 
 one team wins the first round, the other team often just quits, so it often takes several tries 
 to find a game that lasts beyond round 1. I'm not sure that there is any real solution here except 
 to let the community flag the bad players. In contrast, the good players are often good sports 
 - when on a losing team, the opposition went through using only pistols a few times (cocky, sure, 
 but it did give us a fighting chance) . People were also quite willing to give friendly advice to 
 the newbies, which was refreshing to see, so the community is not all bad, it's just a few rotten 
 apples ruining it for the rest of us. It would be nice if they tracked stats and tried to match 
 you with similarly skilled players.
  
  There is also no way to express preference in the location of your servers, so people from Florida, 
 California and Toronto all end up on the same server, meaning that lag can get pretty out of hand 
 at times (plus Canadians have silly accents, which totally breaks immersion) . The nature of the 
 game means that a ping of 200ms is okay, but it was hitting 600ms or 700ms at times.
  
  The game is fun, don't get me wrong. When you get on a good team, it's immensely satisfying to 
 tear through a group of survivors, or to stop everyone of the opposing infected's ambushes. It 
 just needs work - a reputation system so that players who quit mid game or don't play as a team 
 could be tagged and filtered out, and some way to prefer servers near your physical location to 
 fight lag. After a few patches, I think this will be one of online gaming's staples. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmyScott
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  I hate to say it, but some of the people reviewing this game and giving it a 6.5 or less are starting 
 to annoy me. Since when did games need to have -the best graphics ever- to be a GOOD game? I thought 
 being a good game meant it was fun to play over and over, with friends or by yourself... Well guess 
 what, this game is. I've loved Valve's work in the past, especially with they're Half Life Series, 
 and of coarse, Portal. But Left 4 Dead holds its own among these giants, and I believe will make 
 a name for itself.
  
  Upon playing it by myself, I had a fun time, enjoying the chill, the adrenalin rush, and the heart 
 stopping action. I loved the idea of FAST Zombies running at me, ready to take me and my team down, 
 and blasting one clear though a half broken door. Then came time to play with others on-line, and 
 my boyfriend for that matter.
  
  Co-op play is amazing, fun as hell, and it meant I could play a fun FPS Game WITH My sweetie in 
 the Story-mode, rather than needing to be fighting one another. And still having 2 computer buddies 
 along with us. I'm not sure where the people rating this game as anything but awesome are getting 
 off or getting they're info. But take it from a hardcore gamer who's been gaming since the Atari 
 days, Left 4 Dead is worth every penny. Don't skip out on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Lykouleon
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is by no means a bad game. It is an acceptable game. 
  
  I'll go down the line in terms of Graphics, Sound, Gameplay, Replay Value, and Tilt
  
  Graphically, 
 L4D is perfectly fine. Its not going to make your jaw drop, but it looks fine and it won't burn 
 out your video card in order to run. Its not very demanding, and the Source Engine has been showing 
 its age now for some time.
  
  Audio is meh. As an audiophile with an extensive sound system, the game just didn't really utilize 
 all it could have. In an age where we demand all our games to have surround sound, merely indicating 
 where the zombies are isn't enough. In Crysis, I was able to determine distance via sound, as in, 
 based upon a conversation of two guards, I could tell who was closer to me. 
  
  Gameplay, the meat and potatoes. The problem with L4D is that in terms of gameplay, its merely 
 average. Its not bad, its not great, its just okay. The controls respond well, the cross hair is 
 a bit slow, but otherwise fine, but its nothing to write home about. Killing zombies is fun and 
 all, but any real steam fanatic has already played plenty of zombie killing games on GMod. 
  
  Replay Value: The game is short. The fact that they have to trump up a "director" system for 
 unit spawning controls means that instead of spending their energy making new levels, they made 
 that. If there's already a concern your game might be too short, odds are it is.
  
  The Final Tilt:
  
  L4D is an entire adequate game. Its a solid turkey sandwich when you're 
 hungry. It is not however, a gourmet meal, nor is it the new hot online game. For people who think 
 Valve can do no wrong, they'll love it. For people new to Valve, they might not.
  
  If not for its attachment to Valve and the Source Engine, it would be an entirely forgettable experience 
 for everyone.
  
  Its good, but its screaming to be something more than it was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phase_1337
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  The game is heavily engrossing even to the point which i found myself jumping at shadows around 
 the house after i finish playing. The difficulty on, say advanced, is just right to instill the 
 right amount of survival panic without the game becoming monotonous while you respawn again and 
 again trying to avoid the witch this time or run away from the tank that little bit faster.
  
  The games pacing is expert with the directer making each game feel fresh and new even though 
 there are only a few relatively short chapters. (fingers crossed valve will make more)
  
  The single-player isn't all that great although you can't really complain. The AI is competent 
 and in expert mode the strategies used by the special zombies is downright complicated, dragging 
 down the last player in the line as soon as he gets out of line of sight with his buddies.
  
  The game definitely requires good teamwork if you want to succeed and even one bad player can 
 bring a team down quickly (Friendly fire ftw!) but the voting system is easy to use and allows 
 for quick kicking if a player isn't pulling his weight.
  
  Multiplayer versus has a few niggles but is overall a lot of fun once you get over the campaign 
 mode. This game will keep you going for a long time.
  
  Incredibly engrossing and fun game to play with mates, although some niggles with versus mode (balancing) 
 and match-making systems bring the game down to 9.5. One of the funnest PC games of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e_boulanger
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  Although a single player mode is available, this game is for online multi-player only. If you are 
 not into online gaming, forget this game. You'll have fun going through the maps the first and 
 second time, but you'll get bored after that because you'll just stick with the same strategy, 
 and there is no real goal to the game. You must go from A to B without dying. No quest, no mysteries, 
 no interaction with NPC (other than killing them of course) .
  
  The demo gives a good example of what to expect. Before buying, try it. After playing the demo, 
 just imagine the same gameplay repeated over and over again on different maps, and you'll get a 
 pretty good idea of what the game is.
  
  On the technical side, I was impressed. Aside for some clipping issues, the game runs very smoothly, 
 even at high resolution (1680 x 1050 ) . However I generally downgrade to 960 x 600. It gives a 
 little fuzzy feeling (because of the scaling performed) that you don't have if you run at the native 
 screen resolution (I don't like when the image is too "perfect") .
  
  Conclusion, Left 4 Dead is a good multi-player game. Too bad
  I don't like online gaming. Too 
 many immature players and too many serious ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xcryptonite
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  It doesn't have much of a story line. But it is truly fun. So you start out in like a woods and 
 your guys talk about were you have to go. And then your off killing zombies and having fun! There 
 are 4 campaigns or movies in this game that you can play. Ones called blood harvest the others 
 are called dead air, no mercy, and death toll. There are 5 boss zombies. There is a witch and she 
 sits there and cry's and if you disturb her she will attack you. Another one is a hunter and he 
 gets on top of you and tars you apart. A boomer is a guy that vomits on you and zombies swarm you. 
 A smoker is a guy that has a very long tongue that grabs you with it. A tank is a hulk like type 
 thing in malls you. There is vs mode that you can be a zombie. You can be all the boss zombies. 
 But sadly you cant pick them it picks it random. 
  
  You should go get it right NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avatarcj
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  One of the best survival games ever ! But the part when one survivor dies , he will be replaced 
 . So the game's not that hard. I like to play with Francis and with a shotgun. First I played the 
 demo but the full game is awesome . I just played single-player. The game is perfect. I think the 
 best campaign of the game and the hardest is Blood Harvest : Zombies lurk behind every tree, over 
 every hilltop and behind every shadow in this terrifying moonlit search for a rumored evacuation 
 zone to the north: several acres of back-country farmland taken over by the military to get the 
 last of humanity out of Ground Zero. Plunge through pitch-black forests, stumble blindly through 
 fields of swaying corn, and take aim at the silhouettes leaping at you from the darkness-all towards 
 finding a hold-out that might already have been abandoned to the horde 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zutha
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2008 5:59 am PT
Review:  If you like coop games, this is a great one for you. As mentioned it only has 5 campaigns, but 
 that's not an issue. The replay value is fantastic and after 20 times through a same level it's 
 always been different. The Horde attacks from different directions, specials spawn in different 
 places and react depending on the players.
  
  The best part of the game must be versus mode. Get eight pals and have a damn right laugh. 4 of 
 you survivors and 4 of you spawn as special zombies all through the campaign mode.
  
  At the end of the day if you like playing with people, this is a game for you. Playing with your 
 pals and playing with AI really can't match up. On expert you really must work as a team, get into 
 strategic positions... the AI just can't do that and work on the fly.
  
  So if you like coop's get it, if you want to play by yourself don't bother.... but why would you 
 not want to play this game with other people is beyond me :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucky_seven07
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Left4Dead is the new zombie mauling FPS from the folks that brought you CounterStrike and Half-Life/Half-Life2.
 
  
  At first I was hesitant to lay down $49.99 for this game, but after downloading the demo and playing 
 through it about 28913839018 times I was fully engrossed in its awesomeness.
  
  The story: You play as one of 4 survivors after an infectious disease has caused the population 
 around you to turn into a horde or mindless zombies. You can play as Francis; the biker who's having 
 a ball shooting and maiming anything in site with no repercussions -- Bill -- the ex-Vietnam Vet bent 
 on bringing peace back to earth, Louis -- a systems analyst who just wants to escape -- or Zoey -- a 
 spoiled rich girl who can shoot. There are 4 "campaigns" with five-levels each that you can fight 
 through. They vary from being in the middle of a city and fighting building-to-building to running 
 through the forest trying to ward off the swarm of zombies rushing through the trees. At the fifth 
 level of each campaign you must hold off a giant mass of zombies as your rescue awaits in the form 
 of a helicopter, boat, or armored vehicle.
  
  The campaigns are very fun and will get your pulse racing. Playing them by yourself is alright, 
 but playing them with friends makes it much more enjoyable. The AI in the game is actually pretty 
 good and you won't find computer played characters doing many stupid things (so far I've only had 
 one AI controlled character bug out) . The nice thing is that no matter how many times you play 
 through the campaigns they are always different. You can never count on a boomer coming around 
 a corner at the same place or a tank tearing through a wall.
  
  If co-op isn't your thing, there is also a versus mode where you get to play against another 4-player 
 team as either a survivor or one of the "special" zombies. The gameplay is very competitive and 
 it's a totally different experience to be a zombie than a survivor.
  
  There are lots of fun achievements to unlock (Zombie Genocidist -- kill 53,395 zombies or Burn the 
 Witch -- burn a witch with a molotov) and they definitely make you want to keep playing.
  
  Pros:
  Good graphics.
  Decent AI.
  Varied gameplay -- different every time you play.
  Variety 
 of play choices -- co-op, single player, versus.
  Good controls -- your normal FPS controls w/mouse and board.
  Challenging -- not too easy, not too 
 difficult.
  Endless numbers of zombies to kill. It never ends.
  
  Cons:
  My only con with this game would be that I would like to see more campaigns. I played through the 
 four that came with the game relatively quickly and would like to see some more "movies" added 
 to the game. Hopefully there will be an expansion!
  Oh... and this game tends to scare the heebie-jeebies out of me. If you're one of those people who 
 are easily scared... you might want to reconsider.
  
  
  Verdict:
  It's a great game that is definitely worth the $49.99. If you're planning on playing with a group 
 of friends, you'll have a great time blasting zombies. If you are looking for just single-player 
 play you might want to look somewhere else. Playing through the campaigns single-player will take 
 you less than 10-hours (on normal -- I haven't tried it on advanced or expert yet) . Plan on losing 
 sleep. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolman285
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  if you can play counter strike source you can play ths game it does not clock up much and when 
 the zombies decide to attack its fun but not too hard luckily you have 3 different settings of 
 difficulty easy, medium, and hard, takes a little bit to install about an hour or two but you will 
 not regret it. it was a lot of fun and i think it has a lot of re-playability, if you like playing 
 with your friends against computers, you will love this game. the missions are original and will 
 keep you on the edge of your seat, cool things you will see like zombies leaping from building 
 to building or, well i wont spoil it for you. the versus mode is also fun whether your a zombie 
 in wait or a survivor rushing through the map to survive you shall enjoy it. you can be the smoker 
 and drag people to they're doom with your giant tounge, or pounce on people and claw they're organs 
 out, also if you are the boomer you shall have fun puking on people, or if your the angry huge 
 tank throwing rocks and flinging people, you shall have fun with any of these special infected. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t3hTwinky
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is an online 4 player co-op zombie survival horror game that maintains dramatic tension 
 through a clever AI director that guarantees no two playthroughs are the same.
  
  Left 4 Dead is a meaty and satisfying singleplayer game with a slightly lacking story.
  
  Left 
 4 Dead is an insanely fun and addictive pseudo-deathmatch multiplayer game that lets you barf on 
 people.
  
  Which of the above statements are true?
  
  ALL OF THEM.
  
  There are four campaigns, with five different areas. Each campaign takes, with a good group of 
 people, around an hour and a half to complete. The object of the campaigns are simple; start at 
 one safe house, and get to another, and repeat the process until you get to the grand finale where 
 you defend an area while rescue arrives.
  
  On paper, it really doesn't sound like much. However, what little there is turns out to be outrageously 
 fun, and shockingly different each time you play. The weapon drops and zombie attacks are random, 
 so you never know when you're going to get hit and with what. 
  
  At any given area, you might face a special boss zombie, a horde of regular zombies, both, or neither, 
 depending on the difficulty you set, and how well you are doing already. That, combined with the 
 eerie music and tone, creates a degree of tension that a lot of singleplayer horror games don't 
 have.
  
  Doing the main missions with your friends (or alone) is the main draw I think, but the versus mode 
 is one helluva pleasant surprise. Versus is basically the campaign, only there are eight players 
 instead of four, and they are split into two teams; one playing survivors, and the other controlling 
 the zombies. Survivors kill zombies and complete maps to earn points, while the zombie players 
 use the boss zombies' special powers to hurt survivors for points. When the survivors all die, 
 of if they escape, the players switch sides and do it all again.
  
  Absolutely badass.
  
  If you're looking for a sweet online game to play with your friends, or even a singleplayer 
 game with lots of undead to blow up, buy Left 4 Dead, especially if you like shooting zombies... 
 LOTS of zombies. 
  
  Its as simple as that.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: onimushu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  I played the demo on Normal and started feeling like Valve didn't quite nail it. Then I played 
 the demo on Expert and realized how sinister the A. I. Director can be. Then I played the actual 
 game's two extra levels and got that feeling you get when a video game actually serves its purpose 
 -- pure excitement. So, so far L4D is an exhilarating game. It's only been out for a few days, 
 so I'm not going to rush to give L4D my highest honors (however meaningless that may be coming 
 from an amateur reviewer) . Valve's prior commitments to Team Fortress 2 and CS: S should provide 
 an inkling of the level of content support we should expect for L4D.
  
  All of this is great, of course - the anticipated support, great A. I., fun (albeit few) levels 
 - but what really has me laughing like a silly little girl is the Versus mode. Being able to play 
 as the "bad guys" taps into my inner devil and reveling in the fact that I'm purposefully ruining 
 someone else's day brings me great, twisted satisfaction. As my friend phrased it during one of 
 our rounds as the Zombies, "it's like were making a good Zombie movie because, this time, the bad 
 guys actually win [overbearing laughter] ." That was right after my Smoker snared a helpless human 
 character who had been covered in my friend's Boomer vomit, attracting a Zombie horde as I strangled 
 him against a barbed-wire fence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaDaStar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  I picked this one up from Steam figuring I'd give it a whirl because it was a Valve game, how the 
 hell could I go wrong? If worse came to worse, I'd flog it so my son could play it online if he 
 wanted and I wouldn't have felt that my money had been wasted. Turns out that I had to buy a second 
 copy of the game and gift it to my kid so we could slay zombies together. So far, I've missed a 
 bowling tournament and blown off a round of free beers with friends, just so I could get home and 
 shoot up some boomers with my son. We've been having a blast. Even if this only lasts another couple 
 of weeks, it's been worth it. However, I can't see it dying off, pardon the pun, any time soon. 
 We've been having almost as much fun in the "game debriefs' as we've had playing the game. Way 
 to go Valve. There's another hit for you . Now, about Episode 3 for HL2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saftar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is fantastic to say the least. It feels arcadey at times but it pull you out of the 
 mindset very fast. Fantastic lighting, destructive environments, great background music that kicks 
 in at the right time to get your heart pumping are all great additions that Valve put in to boost 
 this game up to where it is. The game is very immersive and well put together. I found myself yelling 
 obscenities a lot while running away from the growing horde.
  
  Multiplayer is great as well. The kick function is a great addition due to the fact that no matter 
 what game it is you can always find a smack-tard. Online Co-op is fantastic. Best played with 3 
 other people you know. Versus mode is great. Lots of strategy is needed on both sides. 
  
  Overall Left 4 Dead is a great game x 10. Everyone should go out right now and get a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avals
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 4:51 am PT
Review:  To tell the truths, I didn't think this game would rock before I buy this.. The demo nor the first-look 
 of the game doesn't impress me at all, but then when I try it on occassion and then find it absoultely 
 amazing and truly cannot get away with this.. it's not very realistic nor very beautiful like crysis 
 or others first-top class technology shooter.. but it's engaging and is very difficult on expert 
 level.. morever, the gameplay is very good that would suck you in for the very last minute.. hundreds 
 of infected pouring to you each map and is randomly-paced everytime, making it very replayable.
 
  The models are especially detailed and the co-op is very instense.. making this one of the best 
 I have ever tryed.. especially when you use the sniper rifle, the effects of wounds and destruction 
 on bodies are highly brutal and realistic.. the multiplayer is even better because of the infected 
 classes for player which is equally fun with survivors.
  Trust me, I always doubted this game before, but now I'd say first-look on videos or demo or screenshot 
 couldn't make you try the real core of the game, you really need the whole game to see it. It really 
 worths it.
  
  
  Presentation:8.5/10
  Graphic:8.5/10
  Gameplay:10/10
  Sound:9.5/10
  Value:9.5/10
  
  Overrall:9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bensonngan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 12:49 am PT
Review:  First of all I have to say that this is a brillant game in all aspects, first of all in terms of 
 graphics, I would have to say that it lives up to the expectations of the Valve Source graphics 
 engine and I have to say it looks alot prettier then HL2 because of the fact that Valve have made 
 some fine tunning to the Source engine to accomodate this game. 
  Secondly the most impressive aspect of this game is the AI director of the game, althrough there 
 are only 4 major campaign in the game but each time playing through the campaign feels completely 
 fresh and new and I have to say thx to Valve for their excellent work in this area. 
  Finally in terms of the gameplay it is simply amazing, it's fast! It's fluid with lotz of actions 
 and most of all lotz and lotz of zombies to kill and I would recommend this to anyone who loves 
 zombie movies or multi co-op FPS games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FootFetish24
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 12:42 am PT
Review:  
  Graphics: Graphics are top notch, the source engine is at its prime. Textures are detailed and 
 the animation is great. The maps are very detailed.
  
  Sound: Sound is very good. Gun sounds are perfect. The mortifying groans of the zombies created 
 the atmosphere very nicely.
  
  Gameplay: This is where the creators went horribly wrong. Not only is it shallow it completely 
 misses the target about what zombie shooters should be about. The only good thing about the game 
 is its randomness of the positioning of zombies. Above all, it is just way too arcadey for it's 
 own good. The zombies move way to fast which could of been compensated by more bunkering and stationary 
 shooting. IN a real zombie infestation, you would not be running around as if you could take a 
 million hits, WHICH YOU CAN IN THIS GAME! WHICH IS RIDICULOUS! 
  
  They could of fixed this by imposing less health. Slower zombies. (im not saying removing fast zombies 
 altogether) limited pistol ammo and putting a melee weapon in. Moving safe house to safe house 
 by cars (this is where the designers can go crazy with APCS and busses and stuff like that.) AND 
 IN EXTREME CASES walking out in the open.
  
  oh, more weapons as well.
  
  Overall it was strangely addictive, but It had the chance of being so much better. My biggest complaint 
 is the utter disregard for realism and inputting mediocre game play.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1337_H4X0R5
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2008 11:47 pm PT
Review:  Many people think Left 4 Dead doesn't have enough levels. First of all, there's 20 maps total so 
 that's a pretty good deal. Also, with the AI Director the map feels completely different every 
 time. I played through the same 2 maps in the demo over and over and it never bored me. Lastly, 
 buying (or activating) the game on Steam gives you a Dev. Kit. Many players are already familiar 
 with this and most likely custom maps, campaigns, and maybe even some game modes, will start appearing. 
 And for 360 players this means that if they do appear, they'll most likely be down-loadable content 
 for Microsoft Points. But since you've all heard the good already here's some of the bad:
  ~Zombies seem to go for Zoey most of the time.
  ~Not enough weapons (I think there was supposed 
 to be about 10 but I've only seen 4) , they could have easily made some sort of home-made flamethrower 
 out of bug spray and a lighter.
  ~Playing with bots is annoying, and in Versus they're way overpowered as Survivors.
  ~If a player 
 leaves in Versus it usually becomes very unfair (Ex: AI are pretty bad as Infected, too accurate 
 as Survivors and making hiding impossible, etc.)
  
  But even the bad things in the game aren't that bad at all, and usually Valve fixes things pretty 
 quickly. One more thing, if you want a quick action packed round for about 10 minutes or so then 
 you probably won't find that here, you'll need about an hour for campaign and versus. But, if your 
 looking for a great co-op this is the best on the market. It's designed so you actually have to 
 work together, unlike some co-op games were you can just go Rambo without consequence.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: champion737
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2008 7:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is a blast. The levels may be limited, but the point seems insignificant once you start 
 playing it. Every level is immersing, varied, and offers every possible kind of landscape someone 
 could desire. Besides, when it comes to multiplayer games, almost everyone only plays 4-5 of the 
 maps available anyways. Think of Counter-Strike, where Dust, Dust2, Aztec, and a few other maps 
 were made up the vast majority of people's play time, and you'll see my point.
  
  A "letdown" is the AI, which is fairly basic (though not at all bad) . It must be conceded that 
 playing with AI's is somewhat dull. However, I think people should keep in mind that they are playing 
 a multiplayer game, that was designed solely for playing with other people. This means that the 
 single-player game is identical to the multiplayer game, except for the AI allies. I would compare 
 this state of affairs to playing a game like Counter-Strike, or one of the Unreal Tournaments, 
 or any other game that has a multiplayer mode. Playing those games by yourself with only AI's for 
 company is boring, and is boring for the exact same reason that playing L4D's "single-player" mode 
 is boring! Multiplayer games/modes are simply not designed to be fun when you play by yourself. 
 This is true for L4D as well.
  
  So, this is a very great game, and I'm giving the game a ten because it does absolutely everything 
 it says it does, and does it superbly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinky_armpits
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  The game is mind blowingly fun! 
  
  It draws on some of the best concepts in gaming and smashes them together in an incredibly ORIGINAL 
 way, something you don't see too much with games anymore. The gameplay is satisfying and frustrating 
 at the same time, without getting annoying (unless your team is weak or there are less than 3 humans 
 playing) . The weapons, while limited, are fun and feel just right and there is not a useless gun 
 in the game. The graphics are not amazing, but when you see the updated source engine you will 
 be impressed that it still looks so good (but more importanlty runs super fast) !
  
  It could use more weapons, sure, there could be more maps, sure, there could be more bosses, sure... 
 But what it offers is well worth the price tag and well worth your time. It goes where games have 
 never gone before and it is just that awesome. Gamespot's 8.5 rating is quite low, especially compared 
 to some of the ratings they have given other games.
  
  I like!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willissz19
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2008 4:07 pm PT
Review:  I was reluctant to buy this game. Four campaigns that last about four and a half hours for $50+ 
 bucks? What a joke. However, all the people I knew playing the demo and buying the game the next 
 day were loving it, so I went ahead and picked up Left 4 Dead. I do not regret it.
  
  I ran the campaigns with three of my friends and had an amazing gaming experience. Left 4 Dead 
 is an immersive and fast paced four and a half hours of campaigning for survival and I cannot wait 
 to replay them with other friends or the same. The replay value is great with the AI changing where 
 zombie rushes, tanks, witches, and equipment are placed on the map to alter the experience and 
 maintain the urgency players felt the first time around.
  
  When we began our first campaign and exit the safe house we immediately felt the danger lurking 
 all around us. Fending off rushing zombies, picking up downed team mates, scavenging and rationing 
 first aid and ammunition is all surprisingly intense fun. Players are rewarded with exploring areas 
 and rooms with pipe bombs, pain pills, weapons, and various other equipment that will help teams 
 reach their destination. However, if players take too much time exploring, ammunition and first 
 aid will become an issue. So the game keeps a suspenseful feel at nearly all times.
  
  Left 4 Dead succeeds in four player co-op gaming. In this game communication is key and being quick 
 to action is equally important. If anyone strays too far, they will die, and this only makes living 
 harder on the remaining survivors because if a friend is pounced by a "Smoker" or "Hunter," someone 
 else needs to get that zombie off of them.
  
  Players will recognize certain zombies are around by the sounds they make, communicating and finding 
 these zombies in the darkness is a blast, especially when a tank is heard coming your way!
  
  Sometimes the action will slow down and players will be alerted a horde of zombies is near. 
 This is a great time to approach the horde with strategy. Gas tanks and other explosives can be 
 strategically placed where zombies may rush from and players can find good positions to fight from 
 and have fun surviving the zombie horde with your team.
  
  Left 4 Dead also has a fun versus mode, which allows four players to be the survivors and four 
 to play as the infected. The campaigns are the same, however, now the survivors have to get past 
 player zombies. As the infected, coordinating ambushes on the survivors is good fun and really 
 gives a fun twist to the campaigns.
  
  The downside of this game, however, still is only having four campaigns. Even with the replay value, 
 more campaigns would be nice and Valve will most likely offer more in time to come. Other than 
 that, I do not have any other issues with the game.
  
  I highly recommend this game to anyone that enjoys co-op gaming. This game is pure quality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wheelercub
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about Left4Dead I thought to myself, how on earth did I not know about this 
 sooner? So I immediately began my zombie research trying to find as much information as possible 
 on the game. Of course there were several videos circulating around the Web, but after finally 
 getting my hands on a copy, I can say that the game is amazing and the online vidz don't do it 
 justice. 
  
  Before I go further, I should let you know that I'm not normally fan of First Person Shooters. 
 Don't get me wrong, I think they're great for an hour or two. But after that, I tend to loose interest 
 as they tend to be more and more of the same thing, on the same maps, with the same AI. I should 
 also say that through my years of writing game reviews, only a handful of FPS games have truly 
 stood as being innovative, exciting, with a high replay value. Of the bunch I think they are Doom 
 and Doom II, Alien vs Predator, Unreal Tournament: Game of the Year Edition, and the very first 
 Half-Life. Don't get me wrong, there are some really great games out there, but I tend to loose 
 interest after the second or third gaming session because I feel like, "I got it and can expect 
 what the game has to offer." On the other hand, Left4Dead reminds me of all the above mentioned 
 games because it takes a great game engine, adds in plenty of action, has lots of creep-out moments, 
 and the story doesn't get in the way of the action. 
  
  Speaking of story, Left4Dead is right on the money! With the exception of 28 Days later, the best 
 zombie movies rarely reveal how the outbreak happened. Many of them have shot themselves in the 
 proverbial foot by revealing a highly improbable outbreak cause such as nuclear waste, witchcraft, 
 aliens, or something else a bit "out there". Fortunately, Left4Dead isn't bogged down with a big 
 complicated story. In fact, the game begins on a rooftop immediately after the opening movie and 
 the remaining story is told by looking around your settings, background, graffiti, X-rays, barricades, 
 and other elements that explain what was happening in the two-weeks prior. These details make for 
 a very unnerving experience as you enter apartments with barricaded windows, ringing alarm clocks, 
 find hazardous waste bags piled in alleys, stumble upon burning police cars, or carefully sneak 
 through crashed subway trains. 
  
  Each of the game levels is called a "movie", has four or five chapters, and is a "dead"-ringer 
 for many familiar zombie movie settings. But the best part is that the pacing of the game is randomized 
 so that you never know when you'll be attacked by a horde, boss monsters, or where you'll find 
 ammo and better weapons. You'll also play with three other companions, making the '4' in the game's 
 title, and will work together to survive as a team. If you decide to play alone, the computer AI 
 will take over the remaining characters, and does a pretty good job at helping save your life and 
 keeping you alive.
  
  In summary, if you're a fan of zombie bashing or cooperative FPS games, you shouldn't rush to the 
 store, you should run for your life to the nearest store to get a copy of Left4Dead! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hjj65747
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead huh?
  This game has to be the best .. and intense game ive played lately
  The Game is awesome in everyway possible..
  Options to play with 3 other people against hordes 
 of Zombies wanting to tear u apart
  with them in different spots everytime u play it..
  1 time u get a horde bashing thru a wall next time u might not..
  it really keeps u on ur toes 
 as u progress through it
  but then again if ur brave u can play on Expert by on single-player
  so u dont have a way of 
 defending ur self until the attack already happens
  but yeah the AI will help you if ur being attacked by a smoker or hunter.
  
  another feature 
 is Versus Mode!
  Where u can play against ur awesome friends and try to destroy their hope of surviving while u 
 play as a ZOMBIE BOSS! 
  yaaaaa hide in a closet as a tank and break their bones when they open that door..
  or hide on 
 a roof as a smoker and lure them to the top and destory them..
  or play as a hunter and use ur speed and high jumping ablity to lunge at them and rip them limb 
 from limb..
  and while doing all this u can laugh at ur friends reaction :]
  but yeah with what ive seen in this game.. id give it a 9.9 only b/c Louis scrwed me over by staring 
 at me when i was behind torn apart by a hunter. but seeing how i cant choose 9.9 I GIVE IT A 10!
 
  Gamespot i do not see HOW u have this gmae only an 8.5 but who am i to complain...
  and Steam once again u blow my mind with ur games :]
  
  IDEAS FOR MAKING THE GAME HARDER!
 
  -----------------------
  pistols only 
  no flashlights (strobe light effect is awesome lol)
  no explosives or just no pipebomb / molotov..
 
  
  TIP
  ----------------------
  Killing the Tank can be easy.. toss a molotov at him AND HAUL ASS
  the fire will kill him over 
 time and it wont extinguish until hes dead
  so in the Subway Level... u see a tank... throw a molotov... run to safehouse
  or since he can go 
 right thru that door hide in the vent.. it takes him a good 2 minutes to get in there fully
  
  LEFT 4 DEAD : 10/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allan_delacruz
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  I really enjoy the experience this game wraps around you with its ambiance, movie es-que feel, 
 and terrific game-play. This game is not meant to be played as a single player so, for those who 
 said this was too short and even more so when played on normal.. your missing the real beauty that 
 is 'teamwork/multiplayer on expert' 
  
  It's always satisfying when two of your friends have died and you and another are limping into 
 a safe-room with the horde right on your tail. Limping away from a tank can give chills at times... 
 similar to the feeling of being chased in a dream. 
  
  Teamwork and a bit of tactics are stressed in this game in order to dominate on vs mode or succeed 
 in 'expert campaign' mode. Always stick together and watch each other's backs. Like all reviews 
 have mentioned, there isn't room for Rambos in this game. Any pompous l33t gamer will be smokered 
 or hunted, thereby stomping his one-man team tactics.
  
  'Vs' mode is probably going to be the most popular because it allows players to be boss infected 
 zombies. You'd think that being on the zombie team doesn't require teamwork, but think again. The 
 zombie team needs to work together in order slow down the survivors. While survivors focus on skill, 
 the boss infected focus on timing.
  
  My highlight of the game: successfully bashing a survivor off the hospital roof with the tank.
 
  
  Hats of to Valve and their subtle humor and storytelling. The director's commentary has helped 
 me understand the work that has gone into a game like this. Talented people make A+ games.
  
  Thanks Valve for another great game to my lineup.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hunt4food
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  Is it entertaining yes for an hour or so, but with smalll maps and not alot of them and a point 
 and shoot and watch ten fall looses my intrest fast. the ais are poor the exciting part is basicaly 
 a wall comming at you and you just point shoot and the wall falls the rest of the kills are things 
 standing around vomiting. better then average graphics plays flawless with everything rampt up. 
 good base, but weak after that. no challenge play, and no iron sight. valve has one hit title and 
 uses that engine over and over and they are called inovators. how about something new. This game 
 has been talked about for a year. next time you got a title to get us excited about how about challenging 
 us make us think instead of a desktop point and shoot. time waister. make me want to log in more 
 then once. I WANT SOMETHING NEW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkUtopia
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  Good old fashion zombie rampage and the zombies actually charge you instead of just stand and fall 
 over.
  The Campaigns are fun and the Versus is even better.
  Its always good to run as a hunter or tank and engulf your friends with zombies and tearing them 
 limb from limb.
  Can't wait until the SDK is released for this to start creating and customizing maps and mods.
 
  Weapons aren't too bad, infinite ammo with Pistols and dual pistols even.
  One of the things i thought was really fun was picking up a propane tank and chucking it at the 
 zombies and taking a shot at it, and poof..... bloody mist. Reminded me of the Dawn of the Dead 
 remake. Good Stuff, definitely worth the buy
  Single player is ok, just to get used to the campaign maps, but multiplayer is where all the fun 
 begins. At release you can only play 2 of the campaigns in versus, but they are still fun none 
 the less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam3231
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2009 2:24 pm PT
Review:  When this game was first introduced, I looked at the cover and thought to myself "Wow this looks 
 like another crappy $50 rip-off release," But I'd say about a minute into the demo I was already 
 getting my money ready to pre-order this game. I mean you take one hit of this game and you're 
 done. Say goodbye to your friends, family and social life aside from the three other suckers that 
 you'll be blasting off heads with. Fortunately, or unfortunately your high only lasts so long, 
 the game is only 4 campaigns consisting of 5 levels each (That's 20 levels for you elementary drop 
 outs) 
  
  Valve's play-doh, the half life 2 engine, has once again stolen the scene for Left 4 Dead. Despite 
 the engine's age, it still pumps out fine graphics and smooth play. That is one thing I appreciate 
 about Valve's games. They look good, they run smooth, I don't crash to desktop, and they don't 
 get overly complicated in terms of gameplay, they just make games that are just plain fun. 
  
  Left 4 Dead is no exception to the Valve legacy, I would not be exaggerating by titling the 
 gameplay "finest co-op of all time" or even "2008: Game of the year" As you probably have already 
 heard, it is a cooperative first person shooter based on killing zombies. The object is to get 
 through the level and find the safe room. Sometimes there may be a little confusion on where to 
 go next, but for the most part the level design is phenomenal. The environments are just mind blowing; 
 the developers really took their time to create some badass levels. But what really does this game 
 justice is the gameplay, there is nothing like playing with a few other people, trying to kill 
 zombies and save each other from death. Teamwork is necessary, not even John Rambo himself can 
 make it through a level alone. (Chuck Norris on the other hand) There are zombies such as a "smoker" 
 that once they have attacked you, you will need a teammate to come save you or else you're dead.
 
  
  As I mentioned before the game isn't extremely long or anything. Trying to beat all the campaigns 
 on expert will take some time though, the outcome is rewarding. Some of the short comings of this 
 game are lack of diversity of zombie types and weapon types. There's only about 10 different weapons 
 and 6 types of zombies which generally repeat seeing them throughout the game. The gameplay makes 
 up for these lacking areas but I would have wished to seen some more content in terms of weaponry 
 and variety of enemy.
  
  You might ask yourself initially, "Well, what difficulty should I play on," I'd say as long as 
 you've had previous pc fps experience, stick with expert. The other difficulties are just for people 
 that want to play through the game real quick. It might be difficult to beat some of the missions 
 on expert though if you play single player. (When I say "difficult" I mean nearly impossible) The 
 computer teammates generally have great aim, they will nearly never hit you with fire but sometimes 
 they just don't make logical decisions that humans can make. When you're first starting out, they 
 seem god like but 2 hours gameplay later, you'll begin to notice that humans can make decisions 
 much better than computers. A very powerful zombie known as the "tank" will usually wipe out all 
 your computer partners while if you fight him well, a human squad can take him out without any 
 deaths.
  
  Otherwise, if you are playing co op with three other humans, high five brother. I guarantee you're 
 going to play this with your friends or just some random people for hours upon hours I mean it's 
 just that good. You're going to come up with 100 different strategies to beat No Mercy campaign 
 finale on expert till you realize its 5 am and you haven't gotten any sleep. You're going to unlock 
 every achievement until you have a pad of paper with your own custom achievements. Actually I don't 
 hope you do that, just try to get about 5 minutes of fresh air for every 8 hours, ok? Have fun.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ASnogarD
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 6:59 am PT
Review:  Left4Dead, or easier to type L4D is a game of potential. 
  
  It is potentially the best multiplayer game you and friends could play available at the moment, 
 providing tons of opportunities for fun, hilarious and fear filled game session, an absolute blast 
 in a Lan party.... its also potentially a nightmare of grieving, lag filled torment and outright 
 frustration when the servers are bad, and the players on the teams are not working together for 
 fun.
  
  L4D simply relies too much on players to make the game work, and as it has a limited number of 
 slots for players to join... even one bad player can ruin a session. L4D does have some mechanisms 
 to counter the bad, such as vote kicks and ability to tie your own dedicated servers to your prefered 
 steam groups. 
  
  The graphics in L4D are simple, they do a good job of showing you the world and you dont need the 
 latest technology to see them, the graphics however wont amaze you and isnt suitable for showing 
 off your new graphics card.
  The audio in the game is actually very good and adds to the athmosphere, I doubt very much players 
 will be turning the audio off so they can listen to thier mp3 collections.
  
  L4D ships with 4 Scenerios ( can also call them 'movies') that each have 5 maps, and two modes 
 of gameplay... Campaign or Versus.
  
  In Campaign mode a team of 4 Survivors must make thier way through 5 maps of one of the 4 Scenerios 
 whilst under constant threat of the Infected which are controlled by a computer controlled 'Director' 
 (AI D) . The AI D controls many variables in the map, from weapon placements and types to when a 
 Tank will come ruin your day. The AI D doesnt simply randomly throw hordes of enemies at you but 
 actually evaluates your progress and situation and will tone down the action to give you a breather, 
 or crank up the numbers to provide you with a intense encounter. Players can play Campaign in single 
 player mode where bots will fill in the rest of the team, and do a pretty good job too , or play 
 with friend online in co op mode. 
  
  Versus mode is where the player gets a chance to play as one of the Infected. In Versus mode one 
 team of 4 players will play as Survivors (bots may fill up empty slots) , and another 4 will play 
 as the special boss Infected (bot dont fill up empty slots, respawn times are reduced to make up 
 the lack of players) . The Surivivors must try get to the safehouse of that map , and the Infected 
 must do everything they can to hinder and eventually stop the Survivors from escaping, when the 
 Survivors either make it safely or are stopped the teams will swap roles and points are tallied 
 based on Survivor performance, when both teams have had thier turn as Survivors the next map of 
 the Scenerio is loaded. 
  
  The biggest problems for the PC version of L4D would be the poor multiplayer server browsing tools, 
 not that L4D's matchmaking is a complete mess... its just PC players expect more, especially from 
 Valve who has spoilt the PC gamer with the excellent server browser used for CS: S, DoD: S and TF 
 2 amongst others. The matchmaking system is simply too random to be considered good, one match 
 could be great with a low ping server and the very next time you could get a nightmare of a game.
 
  
  All in all L4D as it stands currently , is potentially a great game with the right circumstances... 
 it has all the ingrediants that make a game fun and enjoyable, but relies too heavily on getting 
 the right players together on the right server. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rperez69
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2008 6:18 am PT
Review:  I've only played this game for a day however within the few hours of game play I've come to realize 
 that this game is one of the most intense games I've played in a long time. After playing co-op 
 for a couple of hours I needed a break. I mean seriously my nerves were shot! The level of immersion 
 in this game toward not only your own survival but to your teammates longevity takes this game 
 to an all new level. One thing I found enjoyable was that there was no set pattern to the mission. 
 So for example if you found a hidden crevice with health it may not necessarily there the next 
 time and what may be there instead is a creature wanting to rip you a new one. For those of you 
 looking for some intense squad based action that requires coordination and steadfast response this 
 game will not disappoint you as there are measures taken to ensure that lone wolf players are punished 
 for their lack of team work. Great game over all just burned through it awfully fast and hope that 
 there's additional content on the horizon as this game is a definite keeper! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daff3
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2008 6:02 am PT
Review:  When played with four and all have mic, this game just kicks ass. The fun chaos of killing zombies 
 and other beasts simply is more fun then i could ever imagine. When you sneak down a lonely road 
 with your four friends and hear wierd noices from behind, you turn around and see hundreds of blood 
 thirsty zombies running towards you. Let the chaos behing, in a fun way of course. I see people 
 nagging about only four levels in this game, but it isnt that small as it seems. I played one four 
 hours alteast with a couple of people. It was fun, hard some times and we did a descent job helping 
 each other. The most fun of it is that the fact that every time you play a level is diffrent each 
 time. Wich makes the game worth playing over and over again.
  
  co op action+ zombie mayhem + intense music and effects = Left 4 dead
  A must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jarrodschulte
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2008 9:50 pm PT
Review:  WOOOOOOOOOOO! ZOMBIE APOCALYPSE! It seems so simple now. Why hasn't someone done this earlier? 
 Once again Valve comes through, near perfect co-op play is not easy to pull off. Make it an experience 
 that changes every time you play, game over, this game rocks. You never know what is lurking around 
 every corner. I find myself laughing out loud and screaming to my teammates more often than a sane 
 person should. 
  
  Playing as the Infected is just as fun as the survivors. There is something about pouncing on your 
 friends from the shadows and tearing their organs out that is sickeningly satisfying. I don't see 
 this becoming tedious anytime soon. My only complaint would be that there are only 4 different 
 scenarios to play through. I would hope that Valve will take advantage of Steam's ability to add 
 new content sometime in the future, although, the dynamic play should be enough to hold me over 
 for quite some time. Playing on the most difficult skill level becomes ridiculously hard without 
 co-ordination of your team. That too adds another layer of play. I need to quit writing and get 
 back to the ZOMBIE APOCALYPSE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OriginsOfRuin
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  As PC gamers, all of us (should) know of Valve, arguably the best game studio in the world. With 
 the Half Life series as one of the best shooters ever, plus their "side projects", you could call 
 them, in Team Fortress 2 and Counter-Strike, Valve hits another grand slam with the zombie survival 
 shooter Left 4 Dead.
  
  The one genre or area of gaming that Valve hasn't quite hit yet has been the co-operative gameplay. 
 With TF2, they pushed strong teamwork, but with L4D, it's required. Go ahead, just try going off 
 by yourself and see how quickly you get ripped to shreds by a hunter, pulled away by a smoker, 
 or barfed on by a boomer. As a gamer who thinks a group of people working together to accomplish 
 a common goal, survival, is as good as it gets, this game is exactly that.
  
  But it's so much more than that. Valve could've slacked on the zombie death animations, the voice 
 acting, or the lack of boss zombies, but no, they stepped it up big time and created, in my opinion, 
 the most challenging, most fun, and simply the best multiplayer game ever. The way a zombie's head 
 gets blown off with a shotgun to the face, or the way they scream as they come barreling at you, 
 it's all perfect. It's funny, yet scary and hilarious at the same time. Getting completely owned 
 by AI has never been so much fun.
  
  The highlight of the game, unlike other FPS's like Far Cry 2 or Crysis, is not the graphics (though 
 they are very good for the Source engine, going on 4+ years) , but the AI. Valve created the AI 
 Director, which controls when a zombie horde attacks, the difficulty depending on how hurt or unhurt 
 your team is, and the music, among other things. When the horn rings out in the score, you know 
 it's time to find a fookin' room and bunker down for the horde that's soon to be appearing. If 
 not, consider yourself (probably) thoroughly screwed, unless you have it on easy. Even then, it's 
 not guaranteed.
  
  What truly makes this game is the way the co-operative gameplay brings your team together to help 
 and battle thousands of zombies to live to the end... where you can finally scream as you're getting 
 onto the chopper any number of expletives at the helpless zombies left behind with no faces to 
 eat. I've already made a number of friends whom I would trust with my virtual life to help in the 
 battle.
  
  If you're on the fence about this game at ALL and you have a high speed internet connection (and 
 a microphone) , you should already own this game. It's as simple as that. This is the best multiplayer 
 game you could install on your computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedikevin2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Valves done it again. This game is a sensation. If you ever wanted a amazing zombie shooter in 
 which teamwork is key then this is the game to get. Communication is the key. When you play on 
 expert, you better come prepared with mic on and prepare to talk to your teammates alot. Some of 
 the best attributes of the game has to be the AI director. Each time you play, swarms attack you 
 differently, guns are placed in different spots, and the seeming unknown will getcha everytime. 
 Playing through steam allows for so many friends to join the game that you should easily be able 
 to get in games. Since this is a valve game, prepare for many more campaigns made by people from 
 around the world. Its the nature of all valves games. If you might grow tired of the ever changing 
 campaigns, or playing on expert with your friends then remember all valves games allow for map 
 designs int he end. One big problem hat you will notice is that if you don't communicate and accidentally 
 hit a teammate he will suffer alot of damage. Teamwork is key to survive bosses such as the Tank 
 or 2 tanks a witch and a swarm of Zombies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackoracle16
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  I mean, with the AI director, extreme multiplayer, boss zombies, and the like, what's not to like! 
 It's the perfect game to teach those that like to go Rambo a very humiliating and painful lesson, 
 especially if YOU are the zombie tearing them to pieces. I don't even have to explain the graphics 
 and the like, the shading kicks the crap out of other source games, and the textures on the survivor 
 and infected models leaves nothing to the imagination. The sounds are more or less helpful, since 
 if you play it enough you can tell when there is a tank or a horde coming. I'd tell you more, but 
 I got a game to play!
  
  BUY THIS GAME, IT RULES!! Seriously, if you didn't pre-order it's your loss, but better late than 
 never. I highly recommend this game to any who like either playing in a highly cooperative zombie 
 apocalypse, or being the zombie that ultimately annihilates them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tylenol
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  To be completely honest, I'm not a zombie movie fan at all and really was not sure about this game. 
 After watching the game trailer though, I decided to try out the demo and from that moment on I 
 was hooked and could hardly wait for the release. After the game came out my friends and I have 
 been playing just about every night.
  
  I have been absolutely astounded by the wonderful co-op game play mechanics, Valve really deserves 
 the biggest pat on the back of all times. Last night I started a co-op game, my friends were not 
 ready to play, they had real life things to deal with. I started the game without them and each 
 one joined in as they could which then replaces a computer player without any gaming interruption. 
 If someone needs to take a break or leave, no big deal, tell the game you are taking a break or 
 exit and you are replaced by a computer player. I mean wow, how cool is that?
  
  I'm very huge fan of destructible gaming environments but I also know that comes at a cost to game 
 play and PC hardware requirements. Left 4 Dead seems to strike a good balance here, not everything 
 is destructible but all the right areas are, like doors, windows, TV's, alarm clocks or even fire 
 extinguishers. I really want Valve to know how much I appreciate that, for whatever reason it seems 
 very pleasing when I see something in the environment react to me shooting it.
  
  Valve has produced another excellent game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DangerClown
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is the kind of game that should be an example to other game developers. It borrows 
 elements from other survival horror game and film franchises and has beautifully finessed them 
 together into a great game. The game feels in many ways familiar, but it borrows from a rich enough 
 variety of sources as to make the combined elements seem new. This game feels like it has pedigree. 
 It is atmospheric, tense, sometimes claustrophobic and violent enough to make Call of Duty seem 
 diplomatic by comparison. 
  
  The game is epic and immediately thrusts you in fray. It is structured as four separate campaign 
 vignettes that each have 5 levels and take approximately and hour to complete. The default campaigns 
 are four player on-line co-op, but there is also a four on four versus mode where players can play 
 as Infected. There is also an offline solo campaign mode where the A. I. plays the roles of the 
 other three teammates. 
  
  The game features four archetypal characters who don't need a lot of background exposition as their 
 appearances and staccato bits of dialogue during the game give quickly give you gist. Zombie enemies 
 are the fast variety ala '28 Days Later,' and look great especially when only a flash light or 
 a muzzle flash to see them by. This is striking since the Source engine is 5 years old now, yet 
 still perfectly adequate to the task of providing gorgeous environments and character models. Also, 
 Valve did a pretty good job of mixing up the zombie parts so you don't feel like you're killing 
 the same zombie over and over. The lighting in this game is awesome. The 'film-grain' effect from 
 Mass Effect is back, though applied more subtly and to better effect. 
  
  The sound effects and music also nicely contributes to the tension and flares at dramatic moments 
 without being overdone. The guns, while feeling a little Counterstrikey are good and feel solid. 
 The array of weapons is somewhat small, but feels right for the setting. Zombies in this game take 
 bullets the way that a zombie should and they go down 'naturally'. Bosses battles are great and 
 often require teammates to work together to survive. The game is adequately punishing with characters 
 often walking wounded and looking for reasonably scarce healing packs and pain meds. When I finished 
 the first campaign 'No Mercy,' I felt like I had really accomplished something which is pretty 
 rare in gaming for me. At about an hour a game, Left 4 Dead is played in snack like portions, that 
 end up feeling like a meal.
  
  I've only been playing for about six hours, but there seems to be a lot of replay value in this 
 game. If valve can churn out a few more campaigns, Left 4 Dead could be around for years to come. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightLike
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 1:34 am PT
Review:  This game is beyond good, its fantastic the 4 co-op is perfect for playing with your friends, or 
 making friends. It makes the game ridiculously fun. All the zombies and weapons and med packs are 
 always redistributed in the map each time you die. Or replay, so essentially your never playing 
 the same game twice... awesome!!!! You can single this game... but it wont be as fun, its not that 
 type of game that's ment for singling. As they say, Stay together or die. You cant solo it, unless 
 you do it on easiest and are incredibly cautious... also you would have to sacrifice your friends, 
 you cold bastard
  
  The guns, oh the guns... im so friken happy they added m4's and snipes in this game. Yeah i thought 
 smg's, and hand guns and shotguns... but snipers in a kill-rush-zombie throw down?? that's just 
 kick ass. You normally wont have the time to scope in with it.. but it packs a punch with spammed 
 fire so its worth picking up.
  
  However, even though there are a ton of zombies to kill... sometimes theres still just not enough 
 to kill, what i mean by that is they should have made the zombie waves come slightly less often, 
 and added 5 times the zombies in the waves. Well at least in expert mode. But aside the need of 
 killing, "this game is A ranked solid badass go get it and buy material!"
  
  ~~~No complaints!!~~~ But i highly recommend you play this with friends 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beaux
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2008 1:04 am PT
Review:  Also, The company is valve.. They are going to add to the campaign experience.. It almost seems 
 like when you try to do something too different you get stones thrown at you. Somehow Crysis survived, 
 besides all the reviews from people that did'nt have the hardware. not the way it works. This game 
 may have certain aspects of the user made mods, but that is why valve is so great. they look at 
 what their customers and market is playing and they see zombies. Well, lets make a zombie game. 
 They are not tryin to milk everyone for what they are worth. They are catering to your everyday 
 gamer. I love them for that!! Even if it also benefits them in the end. Someone posted a review 
 about this same subject and it made me want to post mine. He thought that this was overplayed by 
 mods and that valve should give us the game for free. No..... They already worked hard on a game 
 because of all the people that wanted this style of gameplay. They cater to us as well as look 
 out for the company. It's a great compromise I think. It would be the same if you were to ask your 
 friend for his brand new album he spent 3 months recording, when you have already heard all his 
 demos. Of course he is going to let you have his cd. Woud'nt you feel better buying it from your 
 friend though because you care.....!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrickphan2
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2008 11:39 pm PT
Review:  Well I had second thoughts about buying this game but I'm glad i ended up buying it! This game 
 is all about multiplayer since it's a group based game. Although I had a few problems getting the 
 game to work, it was well worth it! Campaign Mode is very fun especially if you have buddies to 
 play with. Expert mode is very fun and challenging since you'll eventually die a lot. Versus mode 
 has to be one of the most fun things I've ever played. Basically 4 people play the Survivors and 
 4 play the Infected. Although you can't choose what infected you'd like to be, it is still fun 
 being a Boomer, Smoker, or Hunter (rarely a Tank) . The only bad thing was that I thought the levels 
 in the campaign would be unlocked by beating each but i was wrong. I didn't see all new weapons 
 so can't really say anything about that. Also, I find the spawn time in versus mode for the infected 
 kind of long (20 seconds haha) . All in all, this is a really solid and great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flUx_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is the highly anticipated zombie survival/horror first-person shooter game from Valve. 
 You play as 1 of 4 survivors, all mysteriously immune to the zombie infection; and in versus mode 
 you can play as 1 of 4 Boss Infected characters, all with different special attacks.
  
  In the campaign mode you go through 4 chapters, all of which end with a final stage where you fight 
 off hordes of zombies, several tanks and plenty of other Boss Infected, which is sometimes hard 
 and frustrating- yet fulfilling when you finally get it done.
  
  Overall the game is very balanced and exciting, especially with friends (if only I still had any 
 after being glued to my screen since the demo came out) . Only a few minor complaints:
  
  -No server browser available fiddling in console.
  -Often times it never finds you a dedicated 
 server, forcing you to locally host (leading to lag for everyone but you)
  -Occasional bugs with special infected, usually the Tank, which will occasionally get stuck somewhere, 
 or get stuck in an animation loop (climbing up/down a fence) - though usually it manages to get 
 around (and through) it's environment with terrifying ease.
  -Each chapter has basically the same set up- though the AI "Director" makes it bearable to play 
 several times over.
  
  HOWEVER! The list of Pros far outweighs the list of Cons, and this fast-paced Co-Op game is a must 
 for anyone who loves zombies movies, zombie shooters, or shooters in general. Well worth the 50 
 bucks on STEAM, it's so much goddam fun! needtoshootmorezombies bai 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DPGAssault
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2008 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Valve never ceases to amaze me. Off the top of my head, I really can't think of a game they made 
 that wasn't epic. HalfLife 1 and 2... counterstrike, TF2.... portal..... and now Left 4 Dead. People 
 say this game is too short, but the game is always randomized and this is a multiplayer game! The 
 replay value is always high because you can always play with different people! Plus, knowing Valve, 
 theyre bound to treat us with new goodies in their patches. For example, TF2 updates are always 
 filled with new weapons for the classes and new maps. That's the thing I really love about Valve. 
 They actually care for the customers. Their games are always top notch in quality and theyre never 
 rushed. They always add new content in patch releases and address to problems the gamers report. 
 The Orange Box is another great example of how they're exactly the opposite of EA. Half Life 2, 
 EP1 and 2, Portal and TF2 all in one affordable package?! That was just an epic deal. Well, enough 
 about Valve and on to the actual L4D game.
  There are about 20 levels if i can remember correctly, and each of them are designed very well. 
 The atmosphere is nailed dead on for this genre and really gives a chilling atmosphere. The sound 
 is great too. But I was really impressed on the visuals. The blood splatter, decapitation, and 
 the death animations of the zombies are really great. I had a "wow" feeling when I played for the 
 first time and i shot a zombie 3 times in a row with the shotgun, and the death animation was really 
 fluid. He flew back but was still alive then i blasted his head off, and his lifeless body flew 
 into the wall, splattering blood everywhere. It seems to be a mix of the conventional death animation 
 with ragdoll physics put together. I have my graphics on the absolute max, and it's really amazing. 
 It may not be a breakthrough like Crysis, but I really love the style, and it's perfect for this 
 kind of game. None of my friends have this game yet, so I was playing with strangers. Even with 
 strangers, it was really fun because we were communicating on the mic, and one time when we were 
 at a really close call and everyone was screaming. That was pretty thrilling. I can only imagine 
 how fun it would be with people you actually know. The presentation is very nice. Little things 
 like the main menu also impressed me. It's very neat and cool looking. 
  Some closing comments are that you should really be getting this game for the multiplayer portion. 
 Playing with bots is just not the same, and you're definately not getting the full potential of 
 it. Fire it up with a few of your friends and be prepared for hours of fun. This game (like all 
 other valve games) is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jodan77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is truly an ambitious title. The setup is simple, you and three friends must survive 
 the long overdue zombie apocalypse. Doing so is another matter.
  
  The game is almost to unforgiving depending on the difficulty you play. While there are times were 
 you will get frustrated to the point of taking the keyboard and whipping across the room, it's 
 fun to see how things play out on your next run through.
  
  Replayability is Left 4 Dead's greatest strength. I find myself always eager to play whatever level 
 I find myself in, since there is a variety of environments between the 4 Campaigns' backdrop. And 
 the AI director really does help to make every encounter you face feel new. 
  
  Left 4 Dead's downside is a lack of content. The ten weapons in the game are all fun to use, and 
 you'll find yourself switching between them on the fly, but it would not of hurt to have a larger 
 selection. And while the game has massive playability, some players won't help but find the 20 
 maps a little on the short side.
  
  The Game is not meant to be played without buddies alongside you to scream at your every mistake, 
 but the single player AI bots are competent enough to get you through a campaign. They to have 
 their little problems, being unable to wield grenades and are overly eager to heal you and save 
 you from danger; often compromising their own safety in the process.
  
  The versus mode is probably one of the most unique takes on competitive multiplayer I've seen in 
 a long time. The mode completely changes the rules of the game, and survivors rush frantically 
 to make it as far as they can to score more points; and it feels good to be bad as the zombies 
 and ruin the survivors' good time.
  
  I would instantly recommend this game to anyone I know. You might think the lack of content is 
 not worth the entry price, but once you find yourself absorbed in the game, you won't want to play 
 anything else for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS2_Fan27
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing to play with friends. Nothing beats hundreds of zombies rushing at you and 
 covering your friend while he heals himself while blowing their heads off with a 12 gauge. This 
 game is so much fun that I couldn't stop playing. I like the fact that you can reload while you 
 are shooting, this makes it alot more fun. Playing on easy is fun especially when you and your 
 friends take turns seeing how far you could go all by yourself. Overall this game is a great and 
 has amazing multiplayer components to it. The only bad things that I have found was that in vs 
 the Tank rarely ever appears. I so badly wanted to try it out but nothing. I played on a server 
 for a few hours and no one was tank. I asked if anyone has ever been on and only 1 guy said he 
 was once. Also the online strength isn't that good. In the demo I could make a game in seconds 
 and be playing with friends but I spent a good 10 minutes waiting for it to find a server. Overall 
 this is a great game and anyone who has friends should definatly check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M4j0rTr4g3dy
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 19, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  so apparently, valve spent all of its creativity creating a novel physics game involving portals, 
 meanwhile in what has to be an entirely different state, some valve temps were remapping a zombie 
 mod for Counter-Strike. At least that was the impression I got from this unimaginative exploit 
 of the havoc engine. OK valve, we know you can pump out FPS. I guess my main gripe is not so much 
 with the gameplay, which is simple and done right, but instead with the models which aside from 
 a handful of "bosses" (I use that term loosely) look nearly identical. The number of zombies also 
 takes any sort of fear or anticipation as to what might be around the next corner, which is inevitably 
 more zombies.
  On the other hand online co-op play is a seldom used approach in the FPS genre. The engine is smooth 
 (we knew this when Half-Life 2 was released) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edub2005
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 4:49 pm PT
Review:  If you are a skilled FPS player do not play this on normal difficulty! Definitely start this game 
 on the advanced setting so you don't end up like most people who finish the game in 1 day. 
  I only played this game for about 4 hours but it was the quickest 4 hours of my life! I have never 
 had a game put me on the edge of my seat like Left 4 Dead does. I also have never had a game force 
 me and others to work as a team like this game does. 
  
  I love everything about this game! The only cons I have with this game is the limited amount maps 
 and guns to choose from. But it has been a long long time sense I have had so much fun playing 
 a game. 
  
  This game was definitely worth the wait and if I could ever meet the people who put all there time 
 and hard work into making this game, I would give them all a big hug! :D 
  
  Hopefully other game companies will see how much fun a Coop game is and would start leaning more 
 to coop in the future!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cereo1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  I won't go into the graphics, sounds, and things like that because you've all played HL2 before. 
 With that said, this is the most fun I've had in a game in a long time.
  
  Concerns:
  People say it's too short. Most of you have probably played HL2, CS: S, TF2, and so on for a long 
 time. There is no tutorial, no learning curve, and it is supposed to be fast action for 4 friends. 
 It's supposed to be short, simple, and quick. How many zombie movies have you seen? There are only 
 so many environments to have for a zombie survival game that make sense. 20 levels are plenty! 
 Everyone that says it is too short probably played with BOTs and didn't play on Expert. Do so with 
 real people on expert and tell me you beat even the first campaign in 5 hours.
  People say there is little replay. These people don't understand the Director because it is different 
 every time. Sometimes I wish it WAS more linear because it's so hard to predict what is going to 
 happen.
  Next concern is lack of weapons. The game flows perfectly as is; anyone complaining about not enough 
 guns is just reaching for anything to say bad about this game. What do you want? There are 10 simple 
 and all very useful guns. Which guns you take on your team is important, if there was super powerful 
 guns everyone would just use that and it wouldn't be fun or realistic. Also, you are surviving 
 a zombie attack; do you think there are gravity guns and laser guns lying around a normal town 
 to use?
  On to the flashlight, really this is a concern? You want night goggles? If anyone wants night goggles 
 in a zombie game, you need to pack up your bags and move out of the zombie survival game genre 
 and please never come back. Worse concern ever.
  
  I hope I cleared up a few concerns, play this game with friends on a difficulty that is challenging 
 for your group, and use your mic all the time to use teamwork, and you won't remember having this 
 much fun in a game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Palorin
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  Another Valve game this year, and as always, it doesn't disappoint. This new foray into zombie 
 mayhem is titled "Left 4 Dead" and involved four survivors trying to escape a zombie infection. 
 You can play as either Bill the Vietnam vet., Francis the bad ass biker, Zoey the B-movie horror 
 buff, or Louis the IT analyst. There are four different "movie-like" scenarios that you and three 
 other people can play through which provide endless amounts of fun.
  
  Not only are each of the four scenarios uniquely different, you'll also get a new experience each 
 time. The AI, simply called the Director, places enemies and weapons in certain locations based 
 entirely on health, status, ammo, skill, and location... rather than setting specific spawn locations. 
 This basically guarantees an entirely unique experience each time you play a scenario, providing 
 extreme replay value.
  
  Another aspect of Left 4 Dead is the Versus Mode. This puts eight players in a certain scenario, 
 four as survivors and four as the "special Infected". Each team takes turns playing as survivors 
 and Infected throughout each part of the scenario. The team with the highest score at the end of 
 the scenario wins the scenario. I must say, it's very thrilling to pounce on a survivor and tear 
 him/her to shreds. All in all, I'd say Left 4 Dead is an excellent game that provides infinite 
 possibilities when playing scenarios. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chapman86
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  Well, game itself has a unique gameplay mechanic.
  
  Satisfying zombie killing scenes and such, yet there are minor things that may be the let down.
 
  
  first of all, although it starts out as a movie (there are 4 of them)
  
  they are very short, I spent 2-3 hours in normal difficulties to finish all of them.
  
  the 
 replayability value won't be too big since the maps are same as you restart.
  
  
  weapon choices are too limited as well. basically 5 main guns, 2 explosives.
  
  there are almost 
 no important dialogues or NPC, but except when you enter certian areas or when you friendly-fire 
 your teammates.
  
  flahs light is a bit hassel too. they should have added a night goggle.
  
  joining a server 
 on multiplayer is very stressing since the game finds the server for you.. and usually they find 
 a server that crashes a lot. 
  
  too many disconnectivities while playing 8-player versus mode.
  
  
  
  but anyways, I paid 
 $45 on steam and I got what my money is worth, yet, Vavle usually gives out an amazing title, but 
 this was a bit let down for me.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CompuWize
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2008 8:49 am PT
Review:  I've played a lot of multiplayer's games and this one is by far the best !! The gameplay is soooo 
 intense, you can barely breathe when there's a panic attack from the zombies ! The hunters scare 
 me like hell when they jump on you out of nowhere ! And the witches... DONT TOUCH THEM !!! (I'm 
 sure you guys know what i mean) The graphics are very beautiful and REALLY smooth, no lag at all 
 =) They are just as good as Team Fortress 2. Some people complain that there's not a wide variety 
 of weapons but come on guys, you are SURVIVORS, not James Bond with all the latest gadgets. For 
 everyone out there that think zombies are lame, then play this game and you'll change your mind 
 !! The singleplayer part is maybe useless since its meant to be played multiplayer but anyway it 
 doesnt matter. Bottom line this game ROCKS and it definitely worth playing for a long time... yes 
 this game is very addictive :D Valve your are the best ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexyneo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 1:55 am PT
Review:  Frist while am writhing this amd playing at the same time lol ( waithing for freidns to get in 
 the game ) but for anone out there thinking is it good is it for me etc don; t think buy it it's 
 only like 50 buck and if you don't have it well save for it you wo't be dissapointed the game is 
 out and am already drooling for the expession (if there one's but hey it; s valve so= good ) i only 
 wish they could put a iron scope on the m16 or a little zoom but no big deal the rest is just simply 
 amazing and it; s run so great graphics at full high come one the graphics are pretty nice anyway 
 i enjoy them that and everything else i also like that you have like to make tactic to fight boss 
 and **** like that make you realuy work on your team skills lol so good luck to you guys who are 
 willing to scavage the waste of a apocalysptic zombie nightmare and c you on the field . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diioz
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2008 12:57 am PT
Review:  This survival horror is just perfect for the trip. Valve are getting high with this new brand on 
 their board. I never though it would have been this fun to smash up zombies. The game is so addictive, 
 every time you play its different, hard if you select Expert as I always do. Zombies look completely 
 real, running at you, pouncing, kicking you down, screaming like monster, climbing whatever they 
 can to reach you. Dynamics is there. You must really play as a team to survive, crying for help 
 when you need to, and always watching behind for creepy zombies boss to catch you up. This game 
 would be a perfect selection for LAN game, trust me... Hard if you don't have a microphone, you 
 won't have time to write something on keyboard. This shooter is there to stay, with 5 campaigns 
 and a versus mode. It took me 5 hours on Expert the first time to get through the first campaign, 
 and I was running to the bathroom to come back as soon as possible on my pc. You don't want to 
 miss any seconds of the action there. Multiplayer modes are just nice, single player is kinda boring, 
 bots are only following you or most, good help, but they are not the deal. Versus mode rocks, rapping 
 most of the survivor isn't that easy sometimes, you must act in group, to get those guys pinned 
 to the ground. There might be a little lack of weapons and items selections but other then that 
 the game really gives the shot. If you like shooters, and survival horror game you won't find better, 
 im pretty sure. Give it a try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skillroy
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2008 12:37 am PT
Review:  To get the idea to fight hordes of hordes of more zombies, is super great. you are 4 players, and 
 you fight hundreds of zombies. there are boss zombies in the game, which are all very unique. one 
 is an assassin dog like thing? and there are also one with a giant tounge, who can use it to suddenly 
 drag people out of the group. there are also a giant tank who got insane amounts of hp. and on 
 the harder difficulties it will get you down in one hit.
  
  versus mode is awesome, playing as zombie is awesome. sometimes you even get to be a tank. this 
 in my mind is the best part of left 4 dead.
  
  the graphics are pretty good. the animation of the zombies are super awezome. they all look pretty 
 realistic, or the way i imagine a zombie fast like guy will move.
  
  all in all its a great game, but i have experienced laggy servers, and if your teamates are stupid, 
 it will really ruin the game. i've met stupid people like people who run infront of you, and people 
 who shoots you, even if you stand still!!! friendly fire is mega annoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sheegot
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2008 12:03 am PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is an online first person shooter that revolves around COOP in a run-and-gun story 
 of four survivors in a zombie infected city and its surrounding area. The different characters 
 have the same attributes and only stand out with different audio commentaries that give them slightly 
 different personalities.
  All you have to do is to search for a game and pick a person, then cooperate with the other players 
 in 20 fun and scary levels, divided up into four chapters.
  
  There isn't much to say about the game other than you will be thrown right into the action from 
 the start. It doesn't take many minutes to learn how to act accordingly to the different zombies 
 you encounter thanks to the simple tips displayed as you progress.
  
  What makes the game stand out, is what Valve calles the "AI director". The zombies wil always be 
 attacking from new places so the game has incredible replay value!
  For full details just play the game. Its the most fun you will have in a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moc5
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2008 11:02 pm PT
Review:  We mere mortals are not worhty of Valve gracing us with its perfection! They actually care about 
 what they release! They are obviously all hardcore gamers themselves and are doing this for much 
 more than just money -- unlike EA All they do is sell cowpies wrapped in pretty graphics. (Yes, 
 EA is very regrettably involved in this game. There involvement can only be financial, otherwise 
 this game would have a dissinct cowpie flow to it. Valve, this is my only compliant. Disown those 
 bunch of lemons before it sours you, please.)
  
  What a sensational crowning achievemant Left4Dead is. I'm sorry for being so dramatic, but I sat 
 up last night trying to think of a single flaw or thing I would have done differently in the game, 
 and I couldn't. It's perfect. As is. Right out of the box. Who knew that was possible these days?
 
  
  First, Valve exceeds all my expectaions and then they throw in a Versus mode! You can actually 
 bplay as the zombie horde!?!?!? Amazing! If anyone gives this game a bad rating then they have 
 absolutely no clue about the gaming industry and it will be a clear case of "zombie profiling"!
 
  
  Look, I'm not getting into the details of why, because there are way, way to many good things to 
 say. Bottom line: It's like a zombie movie only far more interesting, and thanks to the amazing 
 staff at Valve, you really do believe you're in a movie brought to life in EVERY detail. 
  
  Valve please make more games. You are true soldiers in the battle for solid, FUN gameplay vs. 
 shiny graphics. 
  
  Before someone says it, I'm no shill. I'm a long time gamer who's becomming irritated with the 
 direction the gamming industry has been taking in the last 5 years. Valve, Blizzard, Bethesda, 
 THX, Creative Assembly, Deep Silver and a few others are all reliable game makers that make games 
 that have substance over shine. I call on true gamers everywhere to support these games by purchasing 
 them only to send the message that we are all tired of false promises on games that dont deliver! 
 Sorry, but that needed to be said.
  
  BTW the graphics in this game are exceptional in Left4Dead, ofcourse and it does deliver in spades. 
 It's Valve after all.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xcvax2003
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2008 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: I've seen a lot of complaining about the source engine, but I don't really see any issue 
 with it. With hordes of zombies coming at you, I'd rather have a slight drop in graphics to keep 
 the framerates up at all times. Go play Far Cry 2 and be bored to death if source makes your eyes 
 bleed.
  
  Sound: No issues, the zombie and weapon sounds are effective.
  
  Story: Some people were apparently expecting a story, but I wasn't (there is none other than survive) 
 so I am not disappointed. 
  
  Gameplay: Absolutely incredible. I've been waiting for a realistic game (or at least more realistic 
 than most zombie games and mods) like this for a very long time. You really do feel as if you are 
 in a zombie movie and the AI director effectively varies the mission each time you play. One issue 
 is that the game only comes with a limited number of scenarios that you can supposedly play through 
 in a few hours. I'm sure there will be plenty of modding and mapmaking though, so this shouldn't 
 be much of an issue in a couple of weeks.
  
  The only big negative is the console-like matchmaking system instead of a server browser. I haven't 
 been experiencing much trouble getting into a game, but a lot of people have and I really hate 
 the lack of control when joining a game. It would also seem to be difficult to effectively mod 
 and customize the game without a dedicated server list. I read that they were in the process of 
 implementing a normal server list, however, so I gave it a 9.0 assuming the problems would be fixed. 
 
  
  If you enjoy B-zombie movies, get this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bladewyrm89
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of valves greatest games yet, another small release like portal that is sure to 
 blow up to be huge. What gamer has not dreamed of slaying zombies with their friends with an arsenal 
 of bad ass weapons? there is none, its pretty much the ultimate goal besides being a pirate or 
 ninja who fights bears by day and werewolves and vampires by night.
  First let me say how well the co-op works in this game, it almost demands that you work in a team 
 and does things to help enforce that like helping revive fallen friends and shooting zombies off 
 of them. While it would not be impossible to have four people do whatever they want, it would be 
 much much harder. The voice chat helps a lot and things play out just like a movie. Zombies are 
 fast but not too fast and the large hordes and boss zombies add extra fun. I wish i could give 
 a more indepth review but there is so much done right and nothing obviously wrong. I highly suggest 
 you purchase this game immediately, atleast download the demo, play it once with some buddies and 
 you'll be hooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blasterbones
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 2:21 pm PT
Review:  I have played pretty much every game by Valve, and they never cease to amaze me. After first seeing 
 the Left 4 Dead page, my first impression of it was "wow, a run 'n gun zombie game.  _ ", and believe 
 me, nothing, and I mean NOTHING people say about how great this game is is anything compared to 
 actually playing it. I mentally declared that Valve is my hero after playing the demo. 
  
  The gameplay is amazing. It is a zombie fan's dream come true; almost like Dawn of the Dead or 
 28 Days Later in game form. The zombies are perfect in every way possible, from the way they run 
 at you and scream to how agile they are. The fact that they don't automatically notice you when 
 you are near them, but instead stand around until they do so was a very nice idea.
  The sound is very good too, the guns sounds are nothing new, but the zombies sound incredible. 
 They don't do the traditional moaning, instead they sound like an insane person that actually wants 
 to kill you.
  The graphics, while beginning to age, are still very good. The zombies are very detailed, and the 
 film grain effects have a noticeable impact on how good the game looks.
  I don't really have an opinion on the value of the game yet, though once the SDK is released (it 
 wasn't at launch) , it will definitely be worth the money. Although there are only 4 campaigns, 
 being able to play co-operatively is a major part of the game's value.
  
  All in all, Left 4 Dead is one of Valve's finest games, and I think it deserves a game of the year 
 award. If you enjoy zombies, and have friends who do also, buy Left 4 Dead!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: groovus
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Where to begin. I guess I'll start with some bold and stand out moments and thoughts about this 
 game. 1) When I pre-bought the game, and got the demo, I knew in 10 seconds into the game, this 
 was already a classic. 2) This is the kind of game where you feel bad for the people who don't 
 enjoy games. 3) Hits the mark on "being in a horror movie" feeling. 4) When you shove zombies off, 
 and fill them full of lead from a set of dual pistols, its just plain awesome, and feels great. 
 5) The art direction is incredible and feels immersive while playing (I'm gaming it up on a Dell 
 2407 (24 inch LCD) 1920x1200, all settings on full blast, and the game looks INCREDIBLE. 6) HIGHLY, 
 HIGHLY addictive gameplay. Theres just so many things you can say that are awesome, setting witches 
 on fire as they stark after you while burning, using a 10 shot auto shotgun to mow down a pack 
 of zombie horde, the music as it kicks in the "creepy horror music" that lets you know a horde 
 is on the way for an attack. Many more moments. The ONLY downside, I wish between chapters they 
 had a movie like at the start off the game, just because I feel that was one of the best intros 
 I have ever seen. A BIG KUDOS to Valve, another AWESOME masterpiece. And to any person that gives 
 it below a 9.. either a) Your a troll b) Your a liar c) Your not right in the head. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadXRooster
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 18, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  It looks like HL2. It plays like CSS zombie mod. Come on 'gamers', are you really loving this, 
 been there, done that, game? We deserve a whole new game and they owe it to us. But here we have 
 yet another cookie cut from the same 5 year-old dough. Wait. This is a game based on a mod of another 
 game? A mod not even designed by Valve? Oh I get it. Valve is now modding other people's mods of 
 an old game. For only 49 bucks? But CSS is free when you purcase HL2. I know, I'm confused and 
 sad too. 
  You gotta hand it to Valve, they can squeeze every stinking penny out their IPs. Everybodie's poor 
 and homeless. You think maybe they could throw us a bone for being loyal to HL2 for ALL these years. 
 It could go like this: "Here's a freebie from us to you. We've already made 100's of millions of 
 this property, so we're gonna give something back. 
  
  NOT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kozzy1234
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Left4Dead has it all, amazing coop gameplay, awesome sound, good level design and awesome pressentation.
 
  The only thing that isnt up to par are the graphics, although i still really like them (just not 
 up to crysis standards for graphics) .
  
  Grab a few friends and hop online for this amazing coop game.
  Also make sure to play it on ADVANCED 
 OR EXPERT. And not easy or normal, its alot more fun.
  
  The fun Factor is also very very high on this game. Its just so damn addicting with friends that 
 i cant stop playing it!
  
  LEFT4DEAD          Any online game this gen (Team Fortress 2 is the only game that is close to 
 as fun) . It is also one of the years best games overall. Definatly the most fun ive had all year 
 on a videogame.
  
  Left4Dead brings back lots of memories from doom2 coop and the old days when games where JUST FUN.
 
  
  Valve really made a masterpeice with this game.
  Tons of zombies, awesome coop gameplay and just great sound and atmosphere!
  If you like coop 
 games, zombie games or shooters, PLEASE go out and buy this game. its very rare that a game comes 
 out that is this fun to play.
  
  Left4Dead is the king of 08 in my opinion.
  Now back to this soon to be classic!
  The game is also very scary if you have surround sound 
 up and helping friends out while playing!!
  
  Yes this is the best coop game ever and one of the best online games ever!@
  
  Must buy game 
 of the year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B_ond
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Left 4 dead is a hectic ride from start to finish. Offering a variety of game play to those who 
 wish to fight the onslaught of zombies with friends or random gamers alike. The start of the game 
 is as great as the ending, from the smokers to the witches, you'll be thankful your teammates have 
 your back as they will be saving your tail from cleverly designed ai, or even more clever enemy 
 players in the versus mode. The best parts of left 4 dead is the ability to draw out the selflessness 
 in random people, as the game is heavily dependent on team work. Dead will punish those who are 
 selfish or do not have the time of day to communicate with their teammates when tackling objectives. 
 The Versus mode matches you and your teammates up to 4 other players who are fighting against you 
 as random zombies. The surviving team is constantly bombarded with zombies more deadly as the game 
 continues up until the climax where the survivors are pit against the most fearsome and deadly 
 of zombies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spidy2150
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Honestly I had heard very little about L4D before the demo surfaced a few weeks ago. When the demo 
 was released for public use, I downloaded it and I was completely blown away. L4D has effectively 
 fused 28 Days Later and Resident Evil to create the best zombie game to date. 
  
  Everything you expect from Valve has arrived. Just as Half Life 2 revolutionized the efficiency 
 of a graphics engine and the graphics themselves, L4D has done the same for gameplay and multiplayer. 
 Multiplayer has never been more fun nor has teamwork been such a crucial part of the online portion 
 of any game. Dare to walk ahead on your own. Your friends will laugh when you are torn to pieces 
 by 100 zombies and a hunter. 
  
  Graphics. Outstanding graphics and optimization once again. There are no studders or artifacts 
 from my experience thus far. Though quite dated, the source engine provides the perfect balance 
 between graphics and smooth gameplay. 
  
  The sound has been implemented with grace. After playing for 2-3 hours you will become accustom 
 to the music and to the indications it gives. Eventually you will tremble when you here the music 
 that relates to the arrival of the Tank. Or when the music changes and 200 zombies come rushing 
 your way. Overall, outstanding.
  
  As with every Valve game, expect awesome support, new content and of course mods and maps. The 
 only aspect that needs improvement is the lack of a server browser. Although you can access it 
 from the console, I am sure everyone would like to see a browser as part of the menu options. Keep 
 the match making system and add a browser along side of it. Expect to see a browser in the future 
 as I sure do. Now get out there and start dismembering some zombies! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calavera1945
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Full Disclosure: I've only completed the first two campaigns and half of the third at this point.
 
  
  As a gamer I go through phases. Sometimes I go three months without touching a controller or booting 
 up steam. Other times I lay on the couch after work, playing xbox 360 into the wee hours of the 
 night, for days at a time. It's during these binges that games start to penetrate my psyche, to 
 the point where I'm going over them in my head as I'm pointlessly attempting to sleep.
  
  During these gaming fueled insomnia fests, my mind frequently wanders into its own idea a perfect 
 video game. These games more often than not include some sort of zombie theme mixed with a game 
 that already exists. Grand Theft Auto, but with zombies shambling about, feasting on the brains 
 of the survivors of Liberty City. X-COM, but with zombies instead of aliens. Harvest Moon -- but 
 with a zombie outbreak in town so that your little farmer dude has to board up the farmhouse and 
 fight off the zombies with a shovel and a watering can. You get the idea.
  
  Up until today, Dead Rising was the closest my insomniac personality has come to playing its  
 game. Then last night at 9pm pacific time (approximately 1 hour before I needed to go to bed) , 
 Steam informed me that Left 4 Dead had been released. I'm really tired today.
  
  The last time I felt that butterfly in the stomach tingle while playing a first person shooter 
 goes back to the days of the first Half Life. The designers of Left 4 Dead achieved the perfect 
 balance between fun and suspense, and they did it by having the computer script the game in real 
 time. During a session, you and your fellow survivors are always teetering on a precipice of uncertainty, 
 somewhere between safety and total annihilation. The AI always seems to know when it's the right 
 time to assault you with a new threat, whether that be a horde of infested or a "boss" character. 
 
  
  I think Valve's AI director would probably do a better job creating a blockbuster than some actual 
 Hollywood directors and writers. For example, while playing the last stage of the second campaign, 
 my team was assaulted in waves by hordes of infected attempting to batter our defenses and overwhelm 
 our stronghold. After over ten minutes of constant attack, our rescue arrived. Unfortunately for 
 me, the AI decided we weren't going to get away that easy. As our rescue neared the stronghold, 
 we were overrun by the hordes and I was trapped out of doors amongst the uncounted minions of hell. 
 Sensing that there would be no escape without sacrifice, I made the decision to attempt a last 
 stand, buying my co-survivors the precious time needed to board the vehicle and escape. They were 
 treated to the scene of my guns-a-blazin passage to the afterlife, which led them to a chorus of 
 "whoo hoo"s and laughter that only a game that has tapped into the emotions of its players could 
 elicit.
  
  Is there anything wrong with this game? Well, yes, it's too short. Even with the unlimited replayability 
 factor generated by the random AI, you can only experience each campaign once for the first time. 
 Subsequent plays will likely be less tense due to the player's knowledge of the locations involved. 
 I for one am slightly disappointed by the number of campaigns/levels, but I suppose this also makes 
 it easier to find other players that are at the same point in the game as you. I think we will 
 likely see many new levels added as DLC.
  
  Overall, I absolutely love Left 4 Dead. I can't wait to return home tonight and finish the final 
 campaigns. After that, it's off to join the infected hordes in versus mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow_hosi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  L4D is easily one of the best multilayer experiences I have had since I started gaming online back 
 on Delta Force 2. For those of you who don't know the game released yesterday, so go buy it now, 
 you will not regret it. This game is just pure, endless fun. The level design is great, it really 
 feels like a zombie Apocalypse, far more than any resident evil game, save RE2, has done. This 
 is one of the few games that always feels fresh, even after you beat it many times.
  
  
  
  The AI Director is one of the best things to come to gaming and more games need it. Depending 
 on how well you are doing it will send massive waves of zombies after you, it will start sending 
 multiple bosses (hunters smokers and bombers) at once, or it might even spawn a tank right in front 
 of you. or if you are doing bad, you may find extra healing items all over. The random spawns and 
 placement of every item in the game makes this game unique, you never know what youll find, or 
 if there will be a door to a room to protect you, even for a short time. 
  
  
  
  This game is HARD, expert will cripple all but the best gamers, but in being hard this game is 
 also incredibly FUN. I have never had such a blast getting completely torn apart by a game's AI 
 before. sometimes it gets annoying, but if your playing with friends that's no problem because 
 you will be having so much fun it wont bother you. 
  
  
  
  This game is all about teamwork, playing with a random group might not do so good but if you have 
 a group of friends and have good coordination, you'll be set. You cant go off on your own, remember, 
 in the zombiegeddon there is strength in numbers. Just home your ammo can hold out till the next 
 safe room.
  
  
  
  
  
  The graphics in this game are very good, sure its a source engine game, but that dosent hold it 
 back by any means. the zombie animations are perfictly done, everythign runs great and there is 
 no slowdown that i could tell.
  
  
  
  
  
  The Verses made makes this game 100 times better, it puts a second set of 4 people in the spot 
 of the bosses (tanks, hunters, boombers, and smokers) and tasks them with stopping the survivors, 
 each team takes turns being infected and survivors and its score-based who wins the movie. It is 
 a blast, human infected can swarm you like the AI wishes it could.
  
  
  
  
  
  All in all L4D is one of the best games to come out this gen, sure its not the best looking but 
 it is by far the most fun to play. This game is one that should not be passed up. it is endlessly 
 fun and you will not regret it. I give this game a 9.8/10, points lost because the story almost 
 non-existant outside of safe room wall writings, and that the game ends 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shedding
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  It is a straight shoot them up game.. it just does not feel like it has enough substance. It has 
 nice graphics, nice animation, good feel to it.. and the people playing the game make the game 
 great.. but I don't see the complete strategy. Only time will tell how good this game really is. 
 The game could've used other kinds of zombies as well as other kind of weapons to dispatch them. 
 Perhaps there could've been a gps system indicating where the zombies were at any time (as a power 
 up) for 20 seconds.. and the zombies could have a power called "Call zombie dogs" where 5-7 dogs 
 would've come running and freaking the players out. All in all, very simplistic but perhaps that 
 will be the allure that attracts most players to it.
  
  A solid 9/10 - The game is well polished and fun.
  
  Sound: Creepy good but repetitive.
  
 
  Graphics - 8/10 (the graphics are awesome but they need to stop recycling the source engine)
 
  
  Gameplay - 9/10 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: margus3
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  It's the best  killing game of ALL TIME!!!!!!!!! Im 
 buyin it, no questions asked!!!!!!!!
  
  All the sick gore/action effects are there and there is just no substitute for this game. Hundreds 
 of zombies running at you and you with your friends shooting them to little pieces is just ADDICTING!!!!! 
 This game goes truly over the top for me because it has given all i need to relax after school!!!!! 
 I really enjoy the diversity of the game with the help of the superb AI engine which means every 
 replay is different, which makes it a superb game to play through for millions of times with your 
 friends!!!
  Believe me or not it is the best zombie game ever Made....
  
  NB: Just try the demo on STEAM and be AMAZED!!!!!
  And be sure to play it at expert, it gives 
 the best experience!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Templar_Bladema
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is the highly anticipated zombie apocalypse shooter from Turtle Rock Studios, which 
 then was bought out by Valve. To sum it up, the game is an adrenaline laced horror that relies 
 on the randomness of the director to keep the game alive and feel fresh through the varied, but 
 few, campaigns called Movies. There is very little plot, aside from the fact that your a survivor 
 in a group of four trying to escape a city (supposedly LA, ot somewhere in California) . The Movies 
 may have very little transition to tie them together, but they all have something unique about 
 them. The game plays like every other Source and Valve based game. You run, you gun, you kick complete 
 ass. The difficulties are just right, with Normal feeling like an average where you may get in 
 some tight spots, but not many, to Expert, where you cannot catch a break to just breathe. To amp 
 up the terror, there are five boss zombies that will occasionally come your way with their own 
 special powers, from pouncing to just utterly battering you. The game is a fresh taste in a not 
 very crowded setting of survival horror. The downside is that there are a lack of campaigns, which 
 may change in future updates. The replay value relies on the director AI to keep the game feeling 
 fresh. Every level is not strictly linear, but not open either. Every campaign ends in basically 
 the same way: You get to the extraction point, and you wait for the vehicle to come, which takes 
 20 minutes, give or take. The Bots are fine, but they require you to lead them, and they stay about 
 10 feet away before following you. They do nice when fighting, trying to not hit you and helping 
 others, but are not very intelligent in an Expert game. I like human people due to the fact that 
 there is a human error factor that makes the game feel more fun, especially when yelling at your 
 teammates to stay together. The game really shines in the defense situations, where you can set 
 up a defense and discuss strategy before starting the switch, and calling the Horde. All in all, 
 this game is a great game, but with just 4 campaigns that can range anywhere from 30 minutes to 
 2 hours per campaign, it feels short. Wait for the price drop to about $30, then go get a copy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Random-_-Dude
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2008 10:19 pm PT
Review:  The anticipation of this game itself is worth giving an award, but the gameplay it self is astounding. 
 It's almost as if the game throws you into the movie "28 Days Later", and it never lets you out. 
 You'll be walking through a house, and all of a sudden from downstairs comes this massive screaming 
 horde of 40 zombies, all raging to feast on your flesh, and all you can do is scream to your partners 
 "WE'VE GOT COMPANY!!!".
  
  The 4 player co-op of the game isn't exactly new to the gaming industry, however it is implemented 
 extremely well, once again, making the gaming experience more like it actually happening.
  
  Multiplayer is one of the best aspects of the game as well. 8 players, 4 per team, battle it 
 out against the other team. The teams are humans vs. zombies, and the game is Survival vs. Eat 
 the Humans.
  
  The game is run on the Source engine by Valve, however they have introduced a new type of NPC called 
 the AI Director. The Director controls when zombies spawn, where you find weapons, what sounds 
 to cue at what times. Everything is done real time by the Director, which allows for a different 
 game every time you play it.
  
  If you've been amazed at the gameplay and creativity behind the CS: S Zombie Mod, you owe it to 
 yourself to check this game out. If you think the "28 Days/Months Later" movies are numbers 1 and 
 2 on your greatest movies ever list, you owe it to yourself to check this game out. If you zombies 
 in general, you owe it to yourself to check this game out.... hell, if you have even heard of a 
 zombie, you owe it to yourself to check this game out.
  
  All in all, if you are at all a fan of first person shooters, chaotic or tactical, or you are a 
 fan of any kind of zombie, ranging from the slow, undead zombies to raging, fast zombies, you should 
 seriously put this on your "must look into" list, if you haven't already.
  
  I will say however that if you and 3 other buddies decide to play some versus together, chances 
 are you might be disappointed at the ease of the game. Most people will just join an online game 
 by themselves, which means that teamwork isn't all to great, and teamwork is HUGE in this game. 
 Some people rush ahead, others like to explore EVERY area, others just simply aren't as skilled 
 as you would like them to be. I would highly recommend that you find 7 friends, and play a versus 
 match where everybody knows everybody else. This will greatly increase the versus mode's overall 
 fun factor and challenge.
  
  |Random| 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oggy1985
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 3:57 am PT
Review:  Game is great! Well, if you like ZOMBIES and CO-OP game-play you're gonna LOVE this game!
  
  I prepurchased it on Stem, and have been biting my fingers to download the full game.
  
 
  Single player is fun to play. AI is really good compared to state of the art of the AI field in 
 gaming. Both your team mates and zombies behave really well.
  
  Game has nice graphics, nothing special, but it is nice and satisfactory. Sound is great - both 
 from team mates, zombies and of course GUNS!
  
  Weapons are pretty well balanced, every with its own use. Game logic is to have fun killing zombies 
 with your friends. And don't forget that! The most fun part of the game is to kill that walking 
 rotting meat with your friends. Especially if you set the zombie level at something higher than 
 normal. Than the game becomes really challenging.
  
  The zombie part of MP is new and innovative, like it was to play Alien or Predator in AvP. I won't 
 say anything more here because i want to leave it for you to explore it. Just to say - it is innovative 
 and fun!
  
  All in all, the game is good looking, great sounding, well balanced and fun. Add to that a bunch 
 of your friends with whom you love to play, and this is the perfect game title for you to spend 
 long dark nights killing zombies.
  
  That would be all from me for now. I'm going back to my friends to enjoy CO-OP and kill the damn 
 zombies! HERE WE COME! Oh yeah, buy the game, it is TOTALLY worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_luz_10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 2:25 am PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is simply one of the funnest games I've ever played. The game is intense, exciting, 
 and tons of fun playing with your friends.
  
  Pros
  
  -Graphics 8.5/10- The graphics are not revolutionary nor will they innovate or blow anyone's mind. 
 The game's graphics engine is the famous Source Engine. The same one powering Half Life 2, and 
 Counterstrike: Source. Nevertheless the game runs very smooth and can throw dozens and dozens of 
 zombies at you at once and be able to run very well on even the lower end of the computer performance 
 spectrum.
  
  -Gameplay 10++++++/10- Every aspect you could love of any horror movie involving zombies is here. 
 Frightening sound effects bring the zombies to real life. Also, there is specific music playing 
 when a specific, special or boss zombie is around. The game really captures the need to stay together 
 and work as a unit to fend off a massive horde of zombies.
  
  The game has an "AI Director" in built into the game's engine. This director randomizes the levels 
 attacks and battles so that they are different every time you play them. Zombies may rush out of 
 no where in mass numbers in one place during one play through but be entirely in another play through 
 of the same level. In other words the levels may be the same but sudden encounters and masses of 
 infected are always different. This leaves the game feeling fresh, and always leaving you in suspense 
 of what will happen.
  
  -Enemy AI 10/10- The zombies are not those of the early RE series or older zombie movies where 
 they walk around like retards, but the zombies you see in 28 Days/Weeks Later, and Dawn of the 
 Dead. They are fast and furious and will surround you and beat you down to the ground where they 
 look to get on top of you and feast, or kick, punch and gang beat you to death.
  
  There are also special zombies. Smokers can shoot long tongues at you and grapple you and reel 
 you in leaving you helpless, Hunters can scale walls, and lunge out of no where and tackle you 
 and start ripping you to pieces, Boomers are big fat zombies that can barf on you which results 
 in all the infected as well as extra infected to flock to you to kill you, Witches are b**ches 
 (ha it rhymes) who weep very loudly and can be avoided... but if you frighten or awaken the witch... there 
 is hell to pay, and tanks or brutes, or hulks or whatever name you learn to curse them by, are 
 large Incredible Hulk type zombies that require an armory's worth of bullets to take down.
  
  Cons
  
  -Weapons 7.5/10- Primarily the lack of guns. There are 10 total guns in the game 
 2 of which are just a pistol and dual wielding pistols and the 10th a stationary minigun which 
 only appears in large scale battle situations. I would like to have seen more guns like an MP5 
 SMG, AK47, Desert Eagle, Magnum pistol, P90 SMG, G36, an Automatic Sniper Rifle, and Magnum Sniper 
 Rifle.
  
  -Length of the campaign 7/10- The game only includes 4 levels. None of which have any relevance 
 to each other. The games have 4-5 checkpoints in each level. The levels themselves take about 6 
 hours or so to beat on advance considering the amount of times you die.
  
  But dont despair...
  
  You have to remember this game is made by Valve. Valve is SUPERB at 
 keeping it's games updated and really going the extra mile and a half for its customers. Valve 
 also has a gigantic mod community that should in the next couple of months produce much user created 
 custom content for playing. Dont be surprised if Valve creates more free content in the future. 
 But one thing is for sure this game will really utilize its full potential if the mod community 
 embraces this game.
  
  This game packs TREMENDOUS quality in a multiplayer game, a zombie game, and just a sweet FPS in 
 general. However its the quantity right now that may turn you away from the $50 price tag. But 
 the game is worth the money! Just wait, the new content will be here and then this game will go 
 where it was meant to go...
  
  A well deserved 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bewary73
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 1:21 am PT
Review:  I have never played a game that is as dynamic as this. The maps might be linear, but you are guaranteed 
 that the outcome is never the same. After playing through 2 of the campaign modes, I can safely 
 say that this game will give you and your friends hours upon hours upon hours of challenging fun 
 game play. I've been playing the demo because i couldn't wait for the real deal, and even the demo 
 didn't get old (that's saying a lot) . The game art is awesome and the messages you read in the 
 safe houses will make you laugh. This game gets a 9.5 only because there are only 4 campaigns as 
 of now. Though I'm sure that custom campaigns will be produced, valve has also promised more content 
 down the road. This is something that we can all look forward to. Left 4 Dead is a fresh game that 
 will keep you guessing at every corner, no matter how well you know the map. Make sure you play 
 with friends you can trust! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodLovesDead
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2008 12:57 am PT
Review:  Sorry for the non-traditional review. I'm assuming that if you're reading this, you already know 
 what the game is about. If not, check out Gamespot's review. All I'm going to do is justify my 
 10/10 score...
  
  Lately over the past 2 years, I've been reflecting on the state of gaming and kept asking myself 
 the same questions: Have I changed? Or are games just not as great as they used to be? I'd keep 
 convincing myself that I've grown older, and in turn, have grown out of videogames. Left 4 Dead 
 convinced me that games can be insanely fun once again.
  
  I've always had a soft spot for Valve. Valve introduced me to first person shooter gaming with 
 Half-Life in 1999 (I came a little late) and after that I became hooked. Counter-Strike, Team Fortress 
 Classic, Day of Defeat, the great times kept on rolling. Valve knew how to make a great multiplayer 
 game, and at the same time, they knew what mods would make great games and funded them so they 
 reached their full potential. Left 4 Dead is one of these cases. Originally developed by Turtle 
 Rock, Valve realized that Left 4 Dead was going to be something special and gave it all the attention 
 it deserved. The hype began to grow quickly among Half-Life fans and all fans of Valve - while 
 Valve fueled it with a 10 million dollar ad campaign to draw everyone else in. Does it live up 
 to the hype? Was it worth the wait? Would it be multiplayer game of the year?
  
  For me, the answer is "Yes" to all of the above. When the demo was released a few weeks ago, it 
 was amazing. I put 10+ hours into the damn thing, until I exhausted those 30 minutes of gameplay 
 completely. Not everyone was convinced though. Many people complained about:
  
  - Length of the game's campaign
  - Lack of weapons (Yes, there are only 10, including the pipe 
 bombs, molotovs, and miniguns)
  - Lack of traditional story
  - Depth of gameplay
  - Boring singleplayer component.
  - Easy difficulty (Only apparent in the demo. The full game 
 is extremely difficult. I wouldn't advise playing on expert unless you feel like replaying the 
 Sewers endless times) .
  - Unappealing graphics
  - Unjustified price
  
  And the list goes on. They are all legitimate complaints, and will make many people cautious about 
 buying a game like this. If you don't have high speed internet, I wouldn't recommend you buy this 
 game. But for everyone else? Get it. It's a must have. All of the aforementioned complaints will 
 seem like nothing by the time you complete your first campaign. The game is nothing but pure adrenaline-based 
 fun. I haven't had this much fun since the debut of the Counter-Strike Source beta in summer of 
 '03. Orange Box from Valve was a treat and all (especially at the killer value it provided) , but 
 Team Fortress 2 in my opinion has nothing on this. I've been yearning for a fun cooperative first 
 person shooter for a lengthy time. Occasionally gaps were filled with Swat 4, Serious Sam, and 
 Rainbow Six Vegas, but none of these games come close to the carnage Left 4 Dead provides.
  
  As for the four campaigns that you'll embark on, there's never a dull moment. The least memorable 
 campaign out the four would be "Death Toll". Does that mean it's no fun? Hell no. It's a blast. 
 Not one game this year has anything on that campaign fun-wise, but Death Toll is nothing compared 
 to the 3rd and 4th acts of the game. I don't want to spoil anything though. Everything should be 
 experienced with your best friends, with a headset, and a couple of beers. Every design move they 
 made with the game just makes sense. The campaign is only 4 hours if you rush through it on Easy 
 with no attention to detail. But if you play on advanced and take your time (have fun!) , the campaigns 
 will last you about 8 hours until you've given them all a single playthrough. 
  
  But Left 4 Dead isn't about a single play through.. The campaigns are quality, with close attention 
 to detail. The AI-Director truly mixes things up so you could play through each campaigns dozens 
 of times before you'll start to feel weary. And what then? Play Versus. Versus is amazing. It's 
 just as fun as the cooperative campaign, if not more, as you coordinate with your buddies on how 
 you'll be taking out the survivors. 
  
  Alright now, I've been dragging on too long. This is a game to be experienced, not read about. 
 Just be sure to pick up that headset (if you don't have one, buy one, it's worth the money) and 
 bring some friends. If you don't have many PC gaming friends, don't worry, this game is a great 
 place to start. It's also worth noting that this game has a spectacular split screen mode, which 
 is flexible enough to let you play split screen online with others. And try to challenge yourself! 
 Games are much more fun if you challenge yourself. 
  
  There you have it, I give this game 10. It's not perfect, but if you reflect on other AAA titles 
 of the year, it's not hard to see how this is 1/2 point to one full point better than any of those 
 games (I'm looking at you Gears of War 2) . Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sic_Vita_Est
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2008 12:50 am PT
Review:  Left 4 Dead is based around co-op play, and that is where its strength lies. You and three friends 
 can gear up and survive the zombie horde as survivors, or choose to attack said survivors as the 
 horde zombie bosses themselves.
  
  The gameplay is fast and furious. I'm a veteran FPS gamer, but shooting thousands of zombies never 
 gets old. That, coupled with the AI "Director", ensures that what you play tonight will not be 
 the same playthrough tomorrow. There can be times where you might get a passing sense of deja vu 
 ("hasn't this happened before?") , but those times are few and far between.
  
  Because the game is crafted around co-op, ignore the single player. You should not buy this game 
 for a single player experience. It would be redundant. Not to say that it is bad, but you miss 
 out on the entire L4D experience.
  
  The graphics, for the aging Source engine, are beautiful. The music, while somewhat repetitive, 
 is controlled by the Director as well so it comes and goes as appropriate with the action. The 
 controls are what you expect from any PC FPS.
  
  This is a game you play because you enjoy screaming over the mic because a wave of zombies just 
 busted through the vent in the wall and you wake up your family in the process. It's the game you 
 play because you like the occasional challenge that a nub on your team will provide you because 
 you and your friend happen to be elite gamers. And finally, it's the game you play just to have 
 fun. You can relax, and just shoot stuff. Stick together, use your head, and act as you would if 
 you were in the characters' shoes, and you'll have a blast.
  
  This is where it's at right now folks -- it's time to hop on the zombie express. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinFriend
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2008 12:45 am PT
Review:  I must say after playing left 4 dead, that valve delivered. The game is thrilling, highly addictive, 
 and exactly what they claimed it to be. The sound and atmosphere is immersive and creepy, and the 
 team oriented gameplay delivers the most fun I've had in multiplayer in a long time. The way that 
 you are forced to work as a team and develop strategies while facing hordes of running zombies 
 really makes the game stand out in the crowded fps genre. Anyone who tries to pull away from the 
 team or show off is likely to pin downed and taken out by one of the several boss zombies, stressing 
 the need to work together. All in all it looks like I won't be getting much sleep in the coming 
 weeks. I highly encourage anyone and everyone that enjoys fast paced shooters to check out this 
 game. Good job valve. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
