-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Left Behind: Eternal Forces
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/leftbehindeternalforces/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Interesting concept that strays from the kill-'em-all RTS norm.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Mission design and pathfinding issues.
 storyline veers from religious devotion to self-parody.
 ugly visuals and too many identical unit models.
 very unstable.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 28, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.4
Critic Score: 4.5, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 3.5, 292 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Left Behind Games
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Nov 7, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Another good thing about the Rapture is that it will take you away from disastrous, buggy games 
 like Left Behind: Eternal Forces. 

  Don't mock Left Behind: Eternal Forces because it's a Christian game. Mock it because it's a very 
 bad game. The real-time strategy/adventure game from Left Behind Games based on the best-selling 
 series of novels from Tim LaHaye and Jerry B. Jenkins will even let down born-again types who expect 
 the Rapture to beam them up to heaven any day now. Nobody has enough faith to endure a game with 
 such a hokey story, terrible mission design, serious problems with the interface and graphics, 
 and loads of crippling bugs.  

          Not even the Antichrist can stand in the way of our mighty faith in the Lord and snazzy 
 sweater-vests!     

  Of course, a lot of people won't make it far enough to find out. Because Left Behind is based on 
 the evangelical notion that you have to accept Jesus Christ as your personal savior or spend an 
 eternity at Satan's weenie roast, most gamers won't get past the "apocalypse right now" premise. 
 Still, games are typically based on outlandish ideas, so it's unfair to dismiss this one based 
 on religious grounds. Yet this is an awfully tough game to take seriously because the absurd story 
 only works as a self-parody.  

  How goofy is this tale? Well, the battleground between the true believers' Tribulation Force and 
 the Antichrist's Global Community Peacekeepers is a heathenish New York City. Your units include 
 gospel-singing musicians, missionaries, healers, and medics. Enemy units feature college-trained 
 secularists, devils, and foul-mouthed rock stars with their electric twangers. Stereotypes are 
 everywhere. New Yawkers speak with such cheesy accents that they should be driving Brooklyn cabs 
 in 1954 while chewing on unlit stogies. Similarly, the game has a 1950s-style attitude about men 
 and women. Only males can become priestlike disciples and handyman builders, whereas only women 
 can become nurses. Female units are actually designated as such and given ridiculous titles like 
 "Friend Woman" and "Medic Woman," a sexual distinction that unsurprisingly isn't extended to their 
 male counterparts. Finally, the game isn't politically correct when it comes to race, either, because 
 a fair number of the bad guys bear Arab and African names.  

  Given the game's Christian devotion, your goal is not to wipe out the enemy as in a typical RTS 
 game but to convert as many neutrals and baddies as possible by raising their spirit level. You 
 seek out these people and directly target the ones you want to save with the recruit ability. If 
 all goes well, he or she will soon be turned into a friend in either a Ned Flanders-like sweater 
 ensemble or a sensible skirt and pumps. These drones can then be sent to training centers for instruction 
 in their new Christ-inspired careers. Soon you've got builders turning abandoned buildings into 
 resource-producing venues, such as food-making cafs and money-making banks, as well as soldiers 
 patrolling the streets. You also have special forces, such as recruiters, influencers, and healers, 
 doing their bit for the cause.  

  Even though all of the above is worth more than a few chuckles, you could still make a good game 
 based on these foundations (if you could get over the creepy brainwashing vibe you get from all 
 the converting) . However, Left Behind is not that game. All of the missions are plagued with interface 
 problems. It often takes two or three clicks to select a neutral unit to convert. Units can be 
 set on an auto-proselytizing mode where they can be ordered to recruit on demand, but the artificial 
 intelligence isn't as committed to Christ as you might expect. If you set units on autopilot, they 
 respond by just standing around, which forces you to do a lot of hands-on conversions to keep up 
 with the Antichrist. Even if this function did work, you would still have to take over units on 
 occasion because they regularly get stuck behind lampposts and parked cars.  

  You get stuck behind objects too. The tall buildings of NYC constantly interfere with camera angles. 
 While you can see friendly unit silhouettes through structures, camera rotation is often blocked. 
 You can scroll back and up to look over buildings, but then you're at penthouse level, and the 
 people down below look like ants. Buildings are also quite ugly, presented mainly as featureless 
 blobs of concrete-gray. It's tough to tell at a glance which buildings are producing which resources -- or 
 quickly determine which can be bought and remodeled for your purposes -- and which are scenery.  
 

  Street design is a little prettier than that of the individual units and buildings because at least 
 you get a few attractive elements, such as billboard ads (EB is apparently the official sponsor 
 of Armageddon) and steamy sewer grates. People in the game share only a handful of faces and outfits 
 and recite just a few canned lines of dialogue. You'll hear outrageous accents and corny lines 
 like "Praise the Lord!" This sort of thing normally wouldn't be a big deal because such issues 
 are common with standard RTS games. But here, they stand out because you're supposed to be converting 
 individuals (a feeling boosted with detailed life stories for each and every unit) , not building 
 cookie-cutter armies of disposable grunts.  

  If you get past all of the engine problems, you'll quickly find that scenario design in Left Behind 
 leaves a lot to be desired. Goals focus on tedious strolls through the mazelike city streets, searching 
 for other true believers and constructing the same half-dozen or so types of buildings over and 
 over again. Arbitrary yellow lines block off whole sections of the city solely to make you take 
 the long way to objectives. Converting heathens and dodging foes, like evil rockers, is really 
 all that you do in every scenario right through the end of the game. The only difference between 
 the first and later missions is the toughness of your enemies and the pace at which you have to 
 churn out the faithful.  

  One major annoyance with all of this is that units steadily lose spirit unless they're bolstered 
 with regular prayer. So in addition to ripping around and recruiting every Joe Sixpack who walks 
 by, you have to keep tabs on spirit levels. If you fail to do this, you risk a power chord from 
 one of those evil rockers that will take you out of the game. If a regular unit drops below 60, 
 he or she loses all training and reverts to a neutral civilian; if a hero unit suffers the same 
 decline, you immediately fail the mission. Who knew that leading people to the Lord would involve 
 so much micromanagement?  

  Multiplayer raises a few questions. This is a Christian game, where you can only play the forces 
 of good in the campaign, so it's more than a little bizarre that you can sign on with the Antichrist 
 in multiplayer battles. You would think that this alone would be more than enough to turn off religious 
 folk. The two sides feature a lot of nearly identical units, though. Each faction has the same 
 healers, the same soldiers, the same tanks and helicopters, and the same proselytizers (albeit 
 with different names) . The only significant way to tell the two apart is by looking at the evil 
 spirits that occasionally get summoned when Global Community Peacekeeper units let their spirits 
 get too low. Even so, these creatures wreak havoc on everyone around them no matter what their 
 affiliation, so it's hard to consider them as evil units. At any rate, the multiplayer option is 
 moot because the game has trouble connecting with the matching servers, and even when it does, 
 nobody seems to be playing the game online as either good or evil.  

          I like your ideas and would like to subscribe to your newsletter.     

  Last but not 
 least, you need to do some praying yourself to make this buggy mess run. Crashes are such a frequent 
 occurrence that it seems like you've got maybe 50/50 odds between a level or a save loading properly 
 and the game freezing up with a sound loop. Sometimes it also hard locks Windows in these circumstances, 
 forcing a system reboot. This was even a problem for us during automatic restarts after changing 
 the in-game resolution. The only way we could change any of the default visual settings was to 
 manually shut down and restart the game, because letting it restart on its own always locked up 
 our system and necessitated a reboot.  

  When it comes right down to it, Left Behind isn't appropriate for anyone -- religious or not. It's 
 hard to imagine RTS gamers sticking with it for long because of its many serious flaws and bugs. 
 It's equally hard to imagine Christians appreciating a game where you can join the forces of Satan, 
 even if only in multiplayer. On a purely basic level, you do have to at least appreciate the interesting 
 twist on the RTS genre the game takes. But beyond that twist, there's nothing remarkable about 
 it -- other than the fact that it is a remarkably bad game. Let's hope it inspires designers to experiment 
 with the genre, if nothing else.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: the_razorback
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jun 17, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  First let me make myself perfectly clear. I cannot express how it saddens me to see other gamers 
 trash this game based on their beliefs or lack there of. So OK the subject is based on a Christian 
 themed book and movie franchise, this doesn't disqualify the game from being judged as just that, 
 A GAME. So OK the authors decide to throw in their Biblical interpretations, ideas and prophetic 
 tidbits, along with music and character backgrounds supporting the notion that only through Jesuschrist 
 can one be saved. What did you expect from a Christian title? Believing that this game was going 
 to be just a another RTS is ridiculous. That's like thinking that Doom was going to have fluffy 
 little teddy-bears and cute tiny gnomes attacking you. So you got all offended because you call 
 yourself an atheist or an intellectual, well boo-hoo, get over it, uninstall the game and return 
 it, but don't turn this into a debate on religion. there are other places to vent your lack or 
 exuberance of Faith.
  
  OK, now for the game review.
  
  I loved the intro movie, very cinematic an overall good start.. then, as with many games, it starts 
 going down-hill fast. The game premise, is very biased. It's OK, I'm OK with that, other games 
 are biased as well. No one complains about how satanic Doom is or how girly Barbie games are. And 
 quite frankly it doesn't bother me one slightest bit since I am a born again Christian anyway.
 
  
  Loading times absolutely SUCK!
  
  The guided spoken tutorial is good... there; s not really much to do so, basically the rest you 
 learn as you try to play... if the game lets you... when it doesn't freeze up. And yes even after 
 the patch.
  
  The graphic design is OK but it lacks situation awareness elements.
  The mini map is useless since there's no way of distinguishing one element from another in a way 
 that is useful in the heat of the 'battle'.
  It's hard to know where my guys are, what they are doing at a glance. A big no-no in RTS.
  
 
  Buildings are too large, albeit in scale with the people... it makes for less of a game in exchange 
 for a more realistic impression which also doesn't help when you zoom out... your guys, well, they 
 disappear microscopically.
  
  I'm not in favor of in-game advertising unless the game is free. I paid for a game, don't give 
 me ads and don't try to sell me music. even if I enjoy the music, I don't need a quick-link to 
 purchase songs. I think it's a cheap, unfitting promotional mechanism. If I'm interested in a song 
 or artist, I am quite able to find my way around to purchase the MP3 or CD, thank you.
  
  Camera movement is quirky and poorly implemented.
  
  Path finding... what path finding? the 
 units get stuck very often.
  
  the game play.. well let's say that due to the fact that the interface, camera, loading times, 
 path finding, microscopic units, lack of general balance, and thinking about the music links... 
 I didn't feel like even playing it more than a couple of missions.
  
  Good against bad, not a problem... just let me play it and give me the right tools to do it
  
 
  My dear Christian friends out there, God bless you.. now please make better games to get the word 
 out. If this game had been decent, more folks would read, listen and consider the message. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RASalvatore
Rating: 1.7
Date: Jan 24, 2007 9:29 pm PT
Review:  While I'm not a religious person, I still thought, what the heck . picked it up for like 50 dollars, 
 and installed. Played for about an hour or two, uninstalled, repackaged, and returned it demanding 
 a full refund. I halfexpected the guy at the store to ask me why. He looked at the game, and was 
 like yeah, got a few of these returns today It was glitched like I haven't seen in a long time. 
 Froze at least 4 times, graphic design was poor, at best. Boring. A must-not-buy. There is not 
 much more to say.
  I had low expectations (yes i realize it's a lot of money for low expectations) , and boy, was I 
 disappointed. Don't ever buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knight-of-God
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 28, 2006 7:01 pm PT
Review:  First let me war you, I have only played this game for about an hour. That being said I like this 
 game okay. Some of the graphics are very nice, I enjoyed the cut scenes. However, the sound to 
 them are horrible. None of the words match the lip movements. Also the camera/camera control is 
 horrible. Plus the city is totally gray (outside of cut scenes) and you have to micro manage everything. 
 That was the bad. the good is that it is very fun if you are majorly into TBS, and there are some 
 cool songs on the game. You can play any of these games from the main menu and they include Strong 
 Tower (Kutless) and Take You Back (Jeremy Camp) .
  Overall, I would say only buy this game if you are a Left Behind fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THCpariah
Rating: 3.3
Date: Dec 20, 2006 7:37 pm PT
Review:  What if one day everyone who used to ask you about accepting Jesus Christ as your personal savior 
 disappeared? What if this was about the time someone took power and his name was Ann T. Christ? 
 Okay, that would be a pretty feminine name, so let's go with Nicholai Carpathia instead. Welcome 
 to Left Behind. Seems you should have listened to all of your religious friends, because you're 
 living in the end times, and there is a battle between the forces of the holy and the rock music 
 of the Satanists. Buckle up: Christian gaming just went mainstream. The game is based on the ultra-popular 
 Left Behind series of books, and the first book is helpfully included in the box with the game. 
 Because I'm a glutton for punishment, I tried to read the book. I thought it would be helpful for 
 me to know the source material for the review, and it might give me a little insight into the series 
 as a whole. I put it down in disgust after the first fifty pages. The writing is just horrible. 
 The fact that 65 million hojillion people bought these books and enjoyed them scares the hell out 
 of me. When you start longing for the florid prose of a dime-store romance novel, you know that, 
 stylistically, what you're holding in your hands is pretty bad. There is a huge market for it, 
 though, and the concept of the people left behind post-Rapture fighting the forces of evil is actually 
 quite compelling. The idea of putting the concept into a game is a strong one, and there's a lot 
 you can do with the premise. It's hard to review a game like this without getting into religious 
 issues, but the one thing you'll want to know from the start is that this game is pushing an agenda. 
 It's not as obvious about it as, say, Kirk Cameron; the game doesn't roam the streets telling people 
 they are going to go to hell because they used to make out behind the Pizza Hut when they were 
 14. But it does have a few things to say about religion. Between missions, you can look at a found 
 clue and read a little essay about the Bible. Some of the historical facts about the Bible I enjoyed 
 reading and they made me want to research the book further out of historical curiosity. There is 
 also an essay that tries to poke holes in the theory of evolution, and while I don't mind how they 
 went about it in this case, the links at the bottom of the page bring you to other Christian sites 
 for further reading. On these pages you're also listening to Christian music, with a helpful Buy 
 this music now button at the bottom of the screen. So you know that this game is definitely trying 
 to say (and sell) something, and for that reason it has a built-in audience. This is a game that 
 Christian parents can buy their kids, and one that Christian kids can play themselves without any 
 guilt about questionable content. I had a good friend growing up who was Mormon, and since his 
 family was into computers, they had a nice four-computer LAN in their basement, and we would spend 
 many an afternoon playing Duke Nukem with all the nudity and swearing removed. The gunfire, apparently, 
 was okay. In other news, Left Behind has gunfire. Pre-release media reports have painted the game 
 as one long exercise in violence that includes vitriol against Jews and Muslims, but were they 
 right? While wondering if we're going to disappear in the next few days, let's play some Left Behind 
 and see what kind of a game it really is. The game begins with a lengthy full-motion video intro 
 where we see the actual Rapture. It's pretty basic: we see someone doing a stereotypically Christian 
 thing and then, off-camera, she disappears in a flash of light, leaving behind only a pile of clothes 
 and jewelry. There is bound to be a lot of looting in the first few minutes after the Rapture as 
 the seven-year-long Great Tribulation begins. From there, it's up to the forces of good to figure 
 out what's going on. As Buck, you travel to New York because you have a feeling that to do God's 
 work you need to be there. Okee dokee. The first thing that happens after the Rapture is that all 
 the advertisements in New York are taken down and replaced with billboards for McGruff, the US 
 Army and, above all, EBGames and Gamestop. No joke; the game is basically just one giant EB/GameStop 
 ad. Down every street and in every alley there is a huge, blatant billboard for the stores. In 
 the post-Rapture world, we know where we can go to trade in our games and DVDs. To say that this 
 took me out of the game a little bit is an understatement; I felt like NPCs were going to start 
 bugging me at any moment about replacement plans and trying to rip me off with low trade-in values. 
 Most in-game advertising doesn't bother me, but when New York becomes one big mall game-store ad, 
 it's a little distracting. As you wander around in the first missions, learning how to buy buildings 
 and convert followers, you'll notice how bland the game looks. This would have been great looking 
 about five or six years ago, but right now it just comes across as boring. There are a lot of bad 
 guys running around, denoted by red bars over their heads, and they will shoot red balls at you. 
 These balls sap your spirit, which is like mana, and you have to pray to get it back. In the first 
 mission I spent a lot of time running away from big gangs of people who were shooting these anti-God 
 balls at me, and that got old quickly. Run and pray, run and pray. It was a lot like being at Wal-Mart 
 on Black Friday. Your job in New York consists of buying buildings and getting a church going so 
 that you can spread the truth of what happened. It's not an electromagnetic pulse that made everyone 
 disappear, as the new world government would have you believe; it was the Rapture. And God still 
 has a lot of work he needs you to do. So you have to hit the streets and convert people to the 
 cause. It's simple: you have a convert button. If you can convince someone to be a Christian this 
 easily, I just don't think it's really going to take, but it's a simple process in the game. You 
 convert a stranger, send your new friend to train for a job, and suddenly you have a new soldier, 
 or musician, or builder. Convert 'em and send 'em to workthat's what I always say. Since this 
 game has violence as a last resort you'll spend many missions simply running around and buying 
 buildings to convert into banks and cafes so you can pay and feed your troops, and, of course, 
 converting people into Christianity so you can fight the forces of evil. If you lose too many spirit 
 points by being hit with those glowing red anti-faith balls, you'll lose the mission when your 
 hero unit goes neutral. I find it odd that your hero can lose his faith by simply listening to 
 some metal (and the game makes sure you know that metal is the work of evil) . The same thing is 
 true with the forces of Mr. Carpathia: a good talker can just convince them to join the forces 
 of good. Of course, you always need to pray. That is probably going to be your most important hot-key 
 to keep everyone Christian and happy. While the game does have a fair amount of gunplay later in 
 the story, it was kind of refreshing to have a more social RTS. I had issues with the pathfinding 
 in places, and it seems a little too easy to lose units in the map, and of course the graphics 
 are ugly, but the game itself certainly has its own feel. While I wish the developers would have 
 worked on the voice acting more during the development cycle, the game does a much better job of 
 telling a story and keeping you involved with what's going on than the books do. The game does 
 have an engaging story, and I did appreciate that aspect of the experience. The tactics and feel 
 of the game are different from other RTS titles, and if you go around randomly killing people, 
 you're going to lose spirit quickly and lose the game. While it might not be compelling enough 
 to get hardcore RTS fans into the game, there is certainly some decent gaming going on here, and 
 I had a good time as I played. This isn't a game that is going to rely solely on the Christian 
 market for its sales; I was happy to see that they did spend the time and effort to put an actual 
 game in there. Many groups have made inaccurate statements about this game that need to be corrected. 
 For one thing, it is not particularly violent. While there are violent aspects of the game, the 
 game makes it clear that shooting is the last resort. Second, it is not hateful to other religions. 
 It does have an agenda, and I think you need to know that going in, but there's no bashing of other 
 faiths. There are some creepy things going on here, such as the conversion of people on the street 
 who are sent to the camp you just built to turn them into soldiers. Given the current political 
 climate, I thought that was a questionable design decision. It certainly made me uncomfortable 
 to turn someone into a good Christian simply to give them a gun. Then there's the idea of the Rapture 
 and Great Tribulation (which many Christians view differently than the game's creators) . If you 
 have younger kids, I could easily see them becoming upset at the idea that God may take one of 
 their parents and not the other, or that one day they might disappear and leave people behind. 
 I can see teenagers mentally putting people into Rapture-ready and Going to be stuck on Earth, 
 groups. Using the idea of the Rapture to give people ammunition to shove non-religious people aside 
 could end badly, and this isn't a game that I would allow my kids to play for that reason. While 
 the presentation is classy and the game doesn't beat you over the head with it, it is trying to 
 get you on what the designers consider to be the right path in life. Whether or not you agree with 
 this is your business, but the game does have a strong agenda behind it. Be aware of this as you 
 play. Summing it up Every time we talk about this game in Opposable Thumbs, it ends with pages 
 and pages of people arguing over religion, no matter what the post was about. I'm not sure this 
 game is worth that level of contention and argument; it's simply doing what a million made-for-TV 
 movies and Christian concerts do: make Christianity more attractive to younger people via the media. 
 It does this well: the game is fun, it'll keep parents happy with its light levels of violence, 
 and it'll be sold at video game stores, religious book stores, and everywhere else people spend 
 money on God. This game will certainly get the message out. Gaming is getting big enough that we're 
 bound to see more titles with a political or religious bent to them, and while some of the content 
 in this game gives me pause, I like the fact they respected the brand and the audience enough to 
 at least attempt to make a halfway decent game. Just be aware of the baggage of that message, and 
 as my grandfather always used to say, Whenever someone starts to talk to you about God, keep your 
 hand on your wallet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sniperoo
Rating: 1.7
Date: Dec 18, 2006 1:17 am PT
Review:  This games and I made it to about level 2 I guess. I really wasn't seeing how the antichrist was 
 that bad.... he stopped war, stopped world hunger and generally improved everything excepet that 
 you cant practice religion. That seems like old Jesus would be more that happy to do those things 
 and lately organized religious leaders are doing a bang up job to bring about the end of the world 
 that it starts to make you wonder would Nicholi really be that bad??? Anyway about the game. Here 
 goes.... It still hurts. The pain from playing this may never leave me but there is a hero (sort 
 of) named Buck who is out to stop the evil ? antichrist by reqruiting people to pray. Along the 
 way you can get beaten up by mobs of people who don't want to pray. Basically the game is training 
 you to be a Jahovis witness. You can die in the game and everyone is forced to eternal damnation. 
 It's that serious. Luckily you can restart and try again. The graphics remind me of the original 
 nintendo or intellivision. Its that bad. I only played for about an hour but that is still an hour 
 plus (including this cautionairy tale) that I will never get back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: renhoek2k5
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 12, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  I don't even understand why my Aunt paid money for this to give to me. I would have rather had 
 the money! The gameplay is crap and if not crap then just uncomfortably awkward. The characters 
 are ludicrous and to be honest I really only enjoyed the game when I got to play on the side of 
 Satan, then it was funny.
  
  What upsets me the most is what a BAD name this gives anyone who designates themselves christian. 
 Based on what I was able to see it just means that you are a culturally insensitive racist a==hole 
 who is determined to make all people be just like you. Wheres the diversity people? My condolences 
 to all those who wasted their time and money on this garbage... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FyreHeart
Rating: 4.2
Date: Nov 30, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  I really, really wanted this game to be great. I've enjoyed the Left Behind books and I personally 
 know some of the people at LB games.
  
  However, I also have to be honest - this game is not great. GameSpot's description of the technical 
 problems are spot-on. The buildings frequently get in the way of your view, are blocky and difficult 
 to distinguish, and units are difficult to select. Recruiting a moving neutral unit frequently 
 takes multiple clicks before the unit activates, and if you click something else by accident, your 
 Recruit function toggles off. The arbitrary yellow lines forcing you to take the long way around 
 are incredibly frustrating. Even if they're there for a mission design reason, they should disappear 
 after you complete that objective so you can move more efficiently around the map.
  
  I'm also annoyed that the command interface isn't resizable or movable. The default layout is workable, 
 but not the way I like mine.
  
  Sound - wise, the music is excellent. The phrases all RTSs seem to have when you select a unit 
 can get trying after a while, but it's appropriate to the genre.
  
  I found their gender divisions odd, too. Making it such that only males can be clergy is understandable, 
 as many branches of Christiandom still accept that, but why can't there be women doctors? Or male 
 nurses?
  
  The system interface is bothersome, too. There is no continue to pick up where you left off, and 
 a load game option is missing from several of the dialogue boxes, forcing you to exit to the main 
 menu to restart failed levels. Reloading a level, even from a save point, involves going back to 
 the ponderous, slow loading screen and the dialogue setting the opening scenario. A quick load 
 feature would really help. And having to pick up the Clue to continue to the next mission is flat 
 out annoying. Their little Think about this articles are well written and interesting, but I already 
 know and believe most of that stuff. Can't I just get on with the game?
  
  Finally, what really killed my interest in this game is the company itself. My computer was having 
 trouble displaying character models, so, after tweaking the display settings and updating my driver, 
 I emailed tech support. Their response? Your processor is below minimum requirements even though 
 it was obviously a graphics card issue. I even swapped out my graphics card and it ran properly. 
 When I told them so, I got no response. NVidia's tech support was far more helpful and professional 
 (though they couldn't solve the problem, either.)
  
  I was rooting for you guys, but you've really squashed my enthusiasm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rbal782
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 17, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  I will first say that I am two things in one. A Christian and a hardcore gamer. I'm not against 
 games like Gears of War and Grand Theft Auto, but when I saw that Left Behind was coming to the 
 PC, I was excited to see what a Christian game would be like.
  
  This game in it's current state is, how do I put this, unplayable. I'm playing on a XPS 3.2 Ghz 
 Intel, with a GeForce 7 series, and the framerate is horrible. I couldn't even get past the tutorial 
 without the game locking up. The graphics are no better than something back from 1998, and the 
 effects don't stack up much as well. Until they patch is somehow, I would not recommend buying 
 this game for anyone. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
