-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Legacy of Kain: Soul Reaver
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/legacyofkainsoulreaver/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 22, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 7.8, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 622 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Crystal Dynamics
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date:     Sep 8, 1999
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While Soul Reaver starts strong, its gameplay gradually wears thin and ultimately falls short of 
 the game's high ambitions. 

 Not everyone enjoyed Blood Omen: Legacy of Kain, a top-down action-adventure in the vein of Nintendo's 
 classic Legend of Zelda. But many were compelled to play it through because of its remarkable story, 
 told by its eloquent vampire protagonist. And Kain's vengeful narrative is the solitary precedent 
 for Soul Reaver, Blood Omen's sequel, which is a 3D action game focussing on his firstborn son. 
 As a sequel to a story, Soul Reaver expands upon Blood Omen by shifting the perspective and complicating, 
 rather than recycling, the preexisting themes. And as a sequel to a game, Soul Reaver boldy abandons 
 all but its most essential ties to its predecessor, even as it conspicuously resolves the original's 
 technical problems. But while Soul Reaver starts strong, both as a testament to storytelling and 
 technical achievement in its genre, its gameplay gradually wears thin and ultimately falls short 
 of the game's high ambitions.  

 Kain's world of Nosgoth is teetering on the brink of destruction by the time his son Raziel rises 
 from an ancient grave in a watery abyss. However, Nosgoth is an entirely beautiful place even in 
 its death throes. Gentle rainfall, bleak skies, and decrepit architecture subdue what would otherwise 
 be a majestic countryside, one so vividly realized that it often looks real. Interior architecture 
 is similarly detailed but even more unbelievable in scope and scale. Gigantic vents and furnaces, 
 subterrannean lakes and catacombs, and other mysterious natural, unnatural, and supernatural vistas 
 abound and make Raziel's travels constantly impressive to behold.  

 Raziel's ability to shift from the material plane to the spectral plane at will is especially remarkable; 
 this transition bizarrely and beautifully affects his environment, which bends and twists as its 
 colors warp. Other special effects, including Raziel's ghostly blade from which the game takes 
 its title, are equally stunning. However, if you can tear your eyes away from the scenery, you'll 
 notice that some of Raziel's enemies look a little plain and that texture maps on the scenery can 
 split at the seams from time to time. The camera angle can get confusing as well - but all these 
 are negligible nuisances in what's an otherwise incredible-looking game. Yet in spite of its graphics, 
 Soul Reaver's strongest technical achievement must be that the game never, ever pauses to load 
 new scenery, a feature that will spoil you the next time you try to play just about any other action 
 game.  

 Of course, while the scenery around Raziel will change constantly, he himself remains a constant. 
 Fortunately, he's animated and articulated so well that you won't mind looking at his emaciated 
 body and tattered wings as much as you might expect. Control is tight and responsive either with 
 keyboard or game pad, and in fact, it's a real pleasure to watch Raziel lithely jump, climb, crawl, 
 and fight - almost as much as it's a pleasure to hear him speak. Just as in Blood Omen before it, 
 the quality of Soul Reaver's professional voice acting is matched only by the quality of its script. 
 Characters like Raziel and Kain come alive through their speech, and Raziel's embittered conversations 
 with his brothers make the subsequent battles feel all the more meaningful and epic. An appropriate 
 soundtrack spurs you into action during such fights, while it inconspicuously plays in the background 
 at all other times, though you may start to notice it becoming repetitive.  

 The soundtrack's repetition becomes evident only when the gameplay itself surrenders to routine, 
 which happens rarely but with increasing frequency over the course of Soul Reaver. Raziel has a 
 remarkable array of talents that should have precluded this game from ever slowing down: He can 
 jump five times his height, he can practically fly, he has superhuman strength, he drinks souls, 
 he shifts planes, and he's completely immortal. While these abilities come into play more often 
 than not in Soul Reaver, at other times Raziel is reduced to such menial tasks as arranging blocks 
 in obvious patterns to unlock doors. Some of these block puzzles are fun, while some of them are 
 not, but there's really no question that the game has too many of them.  

 And although you wouldn't expect to lose a fight if you were immortal, Raziel's few types of foes 
 rarely pose a threat or present any challenge. Before he acquires the Soul Reaver weapon, Raziel 
 at least needs to think about how to dispose of his enemies using appropriate anti-vampire methods, 
 such as throwing them in water or sunlight or burning or impaling them. But his spectral sword 
 lets him slay his victims almost effortlessly, to the point where you'll reminisce about how you 
 used to get by without it.  

 Fortunately or unfortunately, combat isn't frequent in Soul Reaver. More often than not you'll be 
 working your way through the environment in search of Raziel's brothers, taking heed of your powers 
 and weaknesses as you progress. All the while, Raziel's gifts of immortality and plane-shifting 
 allow for unique and clever puzzles and challenges, even as they justify the elimination of frustrating 
 save-and-reload scenarios so common in most 3D action games, in which death comes swiftly and often. 
 Raziel gradually acquires certain powers, such as swimming and phasing through doors, but his basic 
 skills - running and jumping - are ultimately his strongest.  

 By the end of the game you'll feel that you're relying on Raziel's peripheral abilities too often 
 and that the action that made the first half of the game so outstanding has been almost completely 
 replaced by badly contrived puzzles. It's practically obvious that more effort went into the first 
 hours of Soul Reaver than the last, and it's true that the game's abrupt and entirely unsatisfying 
 ending sequence was the consequence of a decision to cut the game short and leave room for a sequel. 
 Apologists would argue that the game's anticlimax merely enforces your empathy for the tortured, 
 fratricidal protagonist. But while the steady decline of the game's initially near-perfect pacing 
 will assuredly dampen your overall experience, that doesn't change the fact that Soul Reaver is 
 original, enjoyable, and an excellent game by any standards except its own.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Screamer201
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 4:12 am PT
Review:  Soul Reaver is a rpg-horror game in which player controlls Raziel first son of Kain. OK, those are 
 big words. But this is a big game, one that deserves big descriptions. Soul Reaver starts off with 
 a gorgeous, two-minute long introductory scene that explains just exactly who, what and why you, 
 Raziel, are an ugly, decayed, moth-eaten, former vampire. I won't tell you the whole story here, 
 but let's just say that once Raziel "evolved" past his creator Kain, things went south in the worst 
 way possible.
  
  Once you're awakened by "The Elder" a mysterious force that feeds souls into the web of destiny, 
 an excellent training session unfolds as Raziel makes his way up to the surface world. What turns 
 this normal training session into such a treat is that it blends seamlessly into the gameplay. 
 As Raziel walks along a path he encounters new areas of challenge, from hovering to fighting to 
 using light and nearby objects to defeat enemies. This clean beginning sets the tone for the rest 
 of the game.
  :Raziel never dies, great sounds In my opinion this game runs more great on Pc and not on PSX, because 
 on psx you cannot use the analog . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kostikas84
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 24, 2007 3:07 pm PT
Review:  BUY IT! That's all i have to say.
  Amazing story... Nice puzzles, Great enviroment....
  The Bosses, The music..
  LOVE IT
  BUY IT! That's all i have to say.
  Amazing story... Nice 
 puzzles, Great enviroment....
  The Bosses, The music..
  LOVE IT
  BUY IT! That's all i have to say.
  Amazing story... Nice puzzles, Great enviroment....
  The 
 Bosses, The music..
  LOVE IT
  BUY IT! That's all i have to say.
  Amazing story... Nice puzzles, Great enviroment....
  The Bosses, The music..
  LOVE IT
  BUY 
 IT! That's all i have to say.
  Amazing story... Nice puzzles, Great enviroment....
  The Bosses, The music..
  LOVE IT
  BUY IT! That's all i have to say.
  Amazing story... Nice 
 puzzles, Great enviroment....
  The Bosses, The music..
  LOVE IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NZX666
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 13, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Soul Reaver is perhaps one of the greatest fantasy stories of modern games. I say this because 
 in recent years, games have become increasingly reliant on proven successful formulas to power 
 their games, and most of these pay very little attention to exploring different narrative structures, 
 and thus have become largely predictable. Cheap theatrics have become the staple of 'great story-telling' 
 in games today. For shame.
  So what sets Soul Reaver apart from its peers and its successors? Immersion.
  
  The story of 
 Soul Reaver follows Raziel a former lieutenant of Kain (from the first Legacy of Kain game, Blood 
 omen) . I say former because as Raziel tells us in the opening scenes of the game, he grew a pair 
 of wings as part of a vampires' natural evolution, excelling the state of his master Kain. In a 
 fit of jealous anger, Kain tears the wings from Raziel's back and orders him to be cast in a lake 
 at the hands of his vampire brothers (which would kill him, as water is fatal to the touch for 
 vampires) . Raziel is destroyed by the time he reaches the bottom of the lake, with his jaw missing; 
 his skin has melted away and even some of his flesh gone too. Dead, though, he is not.
  From the brink of oblivion, Raziel awakens. Wrapping the cloak of his clan around his face to hide 
 his destroyed face, he hears a voice call out to him.
  I know you Raziel. You are worthy. From this point you start the game, and set out on your road 
 to revenge, exacting your otherworldly wrath on your treacherous vampire brethren and Kain himself. 
 Raziel soon uncovers more than he bargained for though, and the dark secrets of Nosgoth will be 
 revealed unto him.
  
  The game play of Soul Reaver largely consists of exploration, puzzle solving, lots of puzzle solving, 
 and a bit of spicy combat to go with it. I say it is an adventure game, because the story-telling 
 and exploration of the game take the centre fold of the players attention and build the other 
 elements around them. What this means is that if the story is dark and brooding, so is the design. 
 The art pervades a very dying-world or end of days feel, the combat is particularly morbid requiring 
 players to impale or disintegrate their foes THEN devour their souls. Puzzles are seemingly brought 
 into the level design, thus often involving works of gothic design, which is yet again suitably 
 morbid. By now you've probably got the picture;
  Soul Reaver is a very black game.
  
  The game plays out from a third person perspective, though there is no feeling of disconnection 
 with the world of Nosgoth as you play, which for a character driven story is quite extraordinary. 
 Most third person games let you watch the story, but Raziel is such an enticing lead character 
 that you can't help but become involved. The world of Nosgoth is dark, dismal and definetly moody, 
 just like Raziel, and it will have you by the balls the whole time you play it. There are a number 
 of elements that pervade throughout the game that give its immersive qualities. The audio, or more 
 specifically, the voice acting, is of impeccable quality. The first time you hear Raziel speak, 
 you will be entranced, and this quality is maintained throughout the whole game.
  
  Overall this is a classic game that must be experienced to be believed, and is one of few games 
 that has a real story to enjoy. Search for it, it's a true gem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FranKrig
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 22, 2006 4:24 am PT
Review:  Thats how a PS game should be made, No that's how a game has to be made If it's glose to perfect. 
 Only the Cam controled sony PS.1 engien is not so nice on a Pc.
  
  The gamer is developing the character while playing, that's one of the best features in the game 
 and the beat way I ever saw that dun. But there is a lot more features that make the game one of 
 the beast games ever made, like a real astonishing story likewise all of the Legacy of Kain games, 
 but no doubt Soul River 1 is absolutely the best in series. 
  But the rest of the saga is also grate even the old Legacy of Kain 1 A early platform game from 
 our grandfathers days is a real hit I think. They all wear until Sony the decision to used there 
 Ps.2 engine on Legacy of Kain DEFINACE. Then also this saga will become a saga only. 
  
  So If they dont com to there senses again and just ones do test there own PS.2 engine them self 
 and then do admit that it is a total disaster together whit their RIP kid's OFF consol. then we 
 do have a permanent SAGA
  One got concept where PS 1. But now they had to make a religion called Ps.2 the best gaming tool 
 in the world to be able to rib off there novices why there mumbling there mantra Play station 
 2 is the best gaming tool ever" 
  And they're redy to start a holy war to make you believe to. 
  Okay if they believe that its 
 ther thing just they'll stay happy then I'm Happy and do ask them to go and build a church and 
 go their so often there want to, just so they can pray whatever they like. But please do let me 
 pass it freely, on my way somewhere else. 
  I don't care on what games are played, just that it is not making my depressions grow, rather they 
 should make FUN and thats not the case whit Ps.2 engine based games 
  Sad enough I own one myself. 
  But no problem I also have a Pc for gaming and a real DVD for 
 film so I dont neat to look at the stretched movies on the Ps.2 --- you know what I mean
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: edubuccaneer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 14, 2006 3:54 am PT
Review:  
  Legacy of Kain: Blood Omen was a good but somewhat obscure Playstation game that had an even more 
 obscure PC conversion. It told the story of a man turned into a vampire and having to fight for 
 his survival, only to be made responsible for the almost destruction of the world.
  
  Now, thousands of years later, Kain is the king and he has his generals. All are vampires and constantly 
 evolve. Raziel, the most faithful of them all grows wings before the master. Kain, in a jelous 
 rage, casts Raziel to a pit of death and let's him fall to his death. Raziel, on the other hand, 
 doesn't die, but is made alive by a elder spirit that takes him to the same world thousands of 
 years after his banishment, with only one mission: to kill Kain.
  
  The game presents a sort of Tomb Raider meets melee and even more platforming. The boasts great 
 graphics and an epic soundtrack. Soul Reaver was ported over the Dreamcast from a Playstation game, 
 but with great graphical blessing: sharper textures, higher resolution and less fog.
  
  The controls are responsive and make fine use of all the buttons. For the puzzles, you'll need 
 to work a bit, since they are related to Raziel's physical strength. You still retain your vampiric 
 needs, so you'll need to suck blood to live. You can glide your way in the levels and even strike 
 enemies with your claws. Since you are a living-dead-thing, you'll constantly travel between the 
 spirit world and the physical spectrum, since each world has differences. And you don't really 
 die, if you are beaten in physical, you go to the spirit world, then you'll need to charge up and 
 go back through a portal.
  
  I can easily recommend this for its crazy story and just because is a darn fun game to play. Enjoy 
 this and try to play the sequels. Unfortunately the sequels fall short of expectation, so just 
 play them with an open mind and to follow the story.
  
  Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2005 3:56 am PT
Review:  I'll feast on your soul before the day is done . . . or maybe I won't.
  Since the vampire Kain refused to sacrifice himself to return balance to the world (see Blood Omen: 
 Legacy of Kain) , the world of Nosgoth has plummeted into chaos. Driving the humans from their homelands 
 and proclaiming himself emperor, Kain decided to expand his power by making six "sons," the first 
 of which is Raziel. These six, in turn, created clans of vampires to sweep across the land.
  
  After many centuries, Kain and the six lieutenants begin to evolve and become more . . . god-like. 
 The Empire grew strong, until the day Raziel happened to evolve beyond his master and grow wings. 
 Angered by this, Kain condemned Raziel to eternal damnation in the Lake of the Dead.
  
  A millenium passed before Raziel once again emerged. Though only a shell of the vampire he once 
 was, he is given new powers by a being called "The Elder." However, Raziel's never-ending hunger 
 for blood has been replaced by a more sinister need: the need for souls, especially those of his 
 "brothers" and his former master. Let the feast begin!
  
  Legacy of Kain: Soul Reaver is one of the most highly anticipated games this year. In development 
 for way too long, Soul Reaver raised gamers' hopes for a masterpiece, and rightly so. Boasting 
 two huge worlds, no load times and beautiful graphics, Soul Reaver had the chance to redefine what 
 makes a great game. That is, of course, if they had actually finished the damn thing.
  
  It's always refreshing to play a game that's as delightfully amoral as Soul Reaver. Being an ex-vampire 
 himself, Raziel constantly refers to vampires as a noble, highborn race. Humans, whether or not 
 you decide to kill them, are never seen as more than cattle. Mmmm, maybe I'll have Italian for 
 dinner . . .
  
  The graphics enhance the mood of the game flawlessly. With towering cathedrals, numerous different 
 vampires, and the altered world of the "Spectral Plane," the game paints a gorgeous and gothic 
 picture of how the vampire hordes have twisted Nosgoth. And all of this is done without any load 
 time! Yep - Soul Reaver utilizes streaming technology to the fullest. Levels load effortlessly, 
 and the world truly feels seamless.
  
  There are, in fact, two planes of existence: the Spectral Plane and the Material Plane. To put 
 it simply, the Spectral Plane is a warped version of the real world. After his torment in the Lake 
 of the Dead, Raziel is a permanent member of the Spectral Plane. He can cross into the Material 
 Plane only when his health is at full. If he happens to die in the Material Plane, he's cast back 
 to the Spectral Plane. If he dies in the Spectral Plane, he's sent back to the Elder with his proverbial 
 tail between his legs. Isn't immortality grand?
  
  The gameplay falls into the Third-Person Action genre trap created by the original Tomb Raider. 
 I, for one, am sick to death of pushing, pulling, and manipulating blocks. Why do they always have 
 to be large, square blocks? What about a statue? Or a ball? Or any other geometric shape? To have 
 a game that seems to redefine the genre get stuck by what was originally a shortcut for the programmers 
 (it's easier for polygonal characters to interact with flat surfaces) just seems ridiculous at 
 this point.
  
  Other than that gripe, Soul Reaver does do some innovative things. Killing a vampire isn't as simple 
 as you'd think. Vampires can take as much punishment as you're willing to give, leading you to 
 uncover some interesting sadistic tendencies you didn't know you had. In order to destroy a child 
 of the night, you have to impale it on a stake, burn it with fire, dunk it in water, or bathe it 
 in sunlight. Then you have to consume its soul before it shifts to the Spectral Plane. A vampire 
 soul in the Spectral Plane becomes a Vampire Wraith. If somehow its body in the Material Plane 
 is made whole again, the vampire comes back to life meaner than ever. This amazing feature adds 
 a whole new level of depth to the game.
  
  Additionally, the music is fantastic. The creepy mood is enhanced by eerie chants and sweeping 
 chords. Don't play in the dark.
  
  Now that I've got you interested in Legacy of Kain: Soul Reaver, how would you feel if I just ended 
 the review here? You'd never get to see the grade; you'd never know what the rest of the game is 
 like. Sounds annoying, doesn't it?
  
  Well, that's where Legacy of Kain: Soul Reaver runs into difficulty. The game is, for all intents 
 and purposes, incomplete. Besides having an abrupt, unsatisfying ending (sorry to spoil it for 
 you, but I had to) , there were many elements of the game that were either badly designed or left 
 out. Whatever the reason (deadline pressure, urge to make a sequel) , these omissions are a serious 
 detriment to an otherwise fantastic game.
  
  The ending is hugely unsatisfying and appears to have been thrown together in a matter of days. 
 It even has a "To be continued" message. To be continued? When? If you think about it, any sequel 
 to this game won't come out for at least a year, and by then the system requirements might just 
 be higher than your current system. So, in order to finish a game you paid $50 for, you'll have 
 to buy not only another $50 game, but also another computer! Absolutely unacceptable.
  
  In fact, the ending change was so last minute that there are still audio files on the Playstation 
 CD (unknown if they're also on the PC version) that reveal the game's real ending; an ending which, 
 by the way, would have made a sequel significantly harder to make.
  
  On top of the rushed ending, whole sections of the game are either glaringly omitted or completely 
 useless. The intro and all the literature refers to Raziel having five brothers. Why then, do you 
 only ever fight four of them? Oh yeah... to be continued. How sneaky. Ugh.
  
  Also, the magic spells are completely useless. To spend an hour getting a new spell only to realize 
 that you never actually use it is just a wee bit frustrating, to say the least. The humans also 
 fall into the useless category. Sure, it's nice to have them attack or bow down to you, but they 
 never say a thing. In fact, they make no noise at all.
  
  Unfortunately, the horrible ending to this game has ruined what looked to be a good contender for 
 the one of the best PC games of the year. All the potential is there, but Eidos and Crystal Dynamics 
 simply released an unfinished product. While the gameplay up to the ending is fine, the abrupt 
 conclusion will leave many gamers feeling completely ripped off. Furthermore, Soul Reav...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jabbawocky04
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2005 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Say you were once a vampire who was killed and went for vengeance, now you got this vengeance and 
 were give two choices, kill yourself and save the world or rule the world and let it decay. Now 
 despite what you say all humans would corrupt and go for the latter. Ok so we are now 1000+ years 
 on and the world is less of what it used to be and now you have your armies but one guy has surpassed 
 you, you give him the penalty of death. Switch around and now you are that guy, thats how it feels 
 to play Soul Reaver against your old character. You are Raziel who expelled to eternal pain by 
 your master for evolving before him but after so many years you are reborn as a demon who reaves 
 souls and go out for revenge against Kain and your vampire brothers. The control system to Soul 
 Reaver is a little hard to control on a keyboard but overall all easy. The graphic are still good 
 for a pre-2000 game and the voice acting is super like in any Legacy of Kain game. This is one 
 long game so you get very good value for a game that is just a game. This is the best Legacy of 
 Kain game in the series with a reasonable difficulty and great story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Behlazur
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 27, 2004 2:02 am PT
Review:  My PC is pretty old, so I can't play very recent games (the most recent game I have is Black & 
 White and it doesn't even run well, so...) . I'm a fan of the Kain universe, but I only played Soul 
 Reaver 2 and Blood Omen 2. I'm still trying to get my hands on Blood Omen : Legacy of Kain, but 
 I found Soul Reaver, and it was only 10$CDN so I picked it up. Of course, the graphics aren't as 
 smooth as the PS2 version of SR2, and the framerate is similar to the one in the PS2 version of 
 Blood Omen 2 (pretty shaky...) , and the game crashes some times, but even with these issues, Legacy 
 of Kain : Soul Reaver is one of the best games I have played on the PC, even if the controls are 
 hard (I had to reconfigure the controls to make them more comfortable, but it's still hard to control...)
 
  
  Since I had played Soul Reaver 2 before, I wasn't surprised of the gameplay, only the fact that 
 the vampires can't be killed only by fighting, they must be impaled or burned by fire, sunlight 
 or water, took a while for me to get into. The glyph energy is pointless, except for the fire one, 
 which kills enemies but costs much energy, as well as the sunlight, but the others like earthquake, 
 sound or water are useless.
  
  Otherwise, Soul Reaver is a brilliant game that mustn't be missed by fans of the series. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
