-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Legacy: Dark Shadows
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/legacydarkshadows/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  8, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.1
Critic Score: 4.6, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 4.7, 86 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: GMX Media
Developer: Razbor Studios
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Nov 29, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Legacy: Dark Shadows feels cheap and amateurish in every way, and playing it can be a numbing experience. 
 

  Have you been yearning for an adventure game with sharp writing, compelling characters, and interesting 
 puzzles? If so, forget about Legacy: Dark Shadows, which feels cheap and amateurish in every way. 
 Playing the game can be a numbing experience. Antiquated graphics, horrible voice-overs, clumsy 
 storytelling, boring characters, derivative settings, pixel hunts, simplistic puzzles, and severe 
 bugs have a way of doing that. If Legacy can do something wrong, it does.  

          Welcome to Mars, where boredom is the leading cause of death.     

  Legacy: Dark Shadows -- which, 
 by the way, has nothing to do with the  Dark Shadows  TV show -- stumbles at the start and never 
 recovers. An underdeveloped, barely coherent prologue has you playing for a scant few minutes as 
 a Russian combat journalist (or something to that effect) in Stalingrad in 1941. Apparently a battle 
 is raging even though the real-world battle for Stalingrad began in 1942. You don't really do anything 
 in this prologue except open up a crate ejected from a downed plane. Then the opening credits roll, 
 and this tiny, cryptic episode is essentially forgotten.  

  The bulk of the game has you playing as Ren Silver, a female private investigator in the 22nd century. 
 You start out vacationing on Mars. The game gives you no clue what you're supposed to do there, 
 so you walk around aimlessly with no motive or explanations until you mysteriously trigger an event 
 that calls you back to detective work on Earth.  

  An acquaintance named Hacker calls to say Ted is missing. Who's Ted, you might ask? (And why, by 
 the way, shouldn't he get a more evocative name for a futuristic mystery story?) Beyond the fact 
 that he's a journalist, Legacy doesn't really make it clear who he is or why you should care about 
 him. In fact, the game has a hard time making it clear who even Ren is or why you should care about 
 her -- or anything in the gameworld, for that matter. If you learn anything about our heroine, it's 
 through her stoic, bored comments on scenery items, or it comes through her stilted, emotionless 
 dialogue with the few cardboard characters you encounter. You can play the entire game and never 
 get a feel for who Ren is, so if you're expecting a strong female protagonist akin to April Ryan 
 or Kate Walker, you'll be sorely disappointed.  

  Legacy's storytelling fares no better than the character development. If you want to learn what's 
 going on in this clunky, underdeveloped tale of world domination, you'll usually have to stop, 
 open Ren's logbook, and read her comments. This is backward. A player shouldn't have to repeatedly 
 read about events after the fact to learn their significance.  

          Ridiculous monsters and objects hidden on dark screens are par for the course.     

 
  The game unfolds in weird ways, with new areas opening up to exploration for no clear reason. 
 You might find that you can enter a hotel only after reading an advertising leaflet about it. Or 
 that you can't initially go down a hallway that your cursor shows to be a valid route -- nothing 
 is blocking you, and no reason is given as to why you can't proceed that way.  

  The puzzles are mostly inventory-based and offer little challenge except when the game forces you 
 into tedious pixel hunting. There are too many items or hotspots that are tiny and hidden against 
 dark backgrounds, so it's often only sheer luck that you'll stumble across some of them. Some items 
 aren't even marked as hotspots, so near the end of the game, you have to click all over the ground 
 to dig up vital items. On top of that, major bugs can make items (and even Ren) temporarily disappear. 
 How on earth can you solve a puzzle when the items vanish?  

  In addition to the inventory puzzles, you get four logic puzzles, but any adventure-game veteran 
 will have solved variants of these puzzles many times before and will be able to breeze through 
 them in a heartbeat. In fact, novices should find them easy, too. Legacy offers no difficulty settings 
 or alternate puzzle solutions, and it unfolds in a strictly linear fashion, so not only is the 
 game too easy, but it also has no replay value at all. On the bright side, it's at least reasonably 
 long the first time through.  

  Reading Legacy's box, you get the impression the interface is something special. In fact, it's 
 pretty bad. Little radial command menus pop up when you click on the characters or items you can 
 interact with, letting you look at, take, or talk to the person or object in question. That part 
 is fine. The problem is that the cursor doesn't always make it clear when you can actually interact 
 with something, rather than merely look at it to hear Ren's thoughts. Between that problem and 
 the hotspots that are far too easy to miss, you'll pretty much have to click everything in sight 
 to avoid missing important items or exits.  

  The interface can also make movement unclear. You might have two exits at the bottom of the screen, 
 yet the movement cursor stays lit up all along that edge, implying that it's all one exit. The 
 visuals don't clearly show two routes, either, so it's only by chance that you might discover you 
 can actually go either left or right.  

  The gameworld is a boring thing to explore, anyway. It's a third-rate mishmash of old cyberpunk 
 imagery and  Blade Runner 's dystopian urban future. This is a gameworld where a metropolis is 
 called "Big City," an arms dealer is named "Gunman," and characters talk with a straight face about 
 the "conquest of the universe."  

  The world isn't merely clichd and underdeveloped -- it's also portrayed with dated, blocky 
 graphics and mostly static backgrounds. The character animations are extremely limited and stilted, 
 too. Ren's walking and running animations don't look remotely realistic, and her lips never move 
 when she speaks. When she interacts with an object, she just vaguely waves her hand in its direction 
 instead of actually holding, turning, or opening it. Ren looks more like a marionette than a person. 

          Outside of some frustrating pixel hunts, the puzzles are a breeze.     

  While the graphics are unoriginal and at least six years out of date on a technical level, they 
 still more or less get the job done. The same can't be said for the audio, which is atrocious. 
 The sound effects and music are simplistic and sparse, and the voice-overs range from bad to astonishingly 
 bad. The actors have heavy Slavic accents, so Ren takes a "wacation" instead of a "vacation." This 
 wouldn't be a problem if all the characters were supposed to be from the developer's native Croatia, 
 but there's no indication that such is the case. In fact, one is apparently supposed to be a Texan. 
 What's worse is the way many actors gratuitously affect strange, cartoony voices that are downright 
 silly and distracting. Mispronunciations, coupled with numerous typos in the subtitles, only add 
 to the game's audio woes and general sloppiness. More than anything, what's striking about the 
 voice-overs is how everyone sounds terminally bored, as if random people were dragged in off the 
 streets and paid a few bucks to read some bad dialogue for an afternoon. Not a single character 
 sounds like a person with real emotions that you can relate to.  

  It somehow seems fitting that whenever you exit Legacy, it starts to play a cheesy little rap song 
 and then crashes. In fact, Legacy crashes during gameplay, too, so save often. Better yet, save 
 your money for one of the many superior adventure games released this year.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SYdoggXxX
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  You know something's wrong with a game from the moment installation issues take place.
  
  This was the case with Legacy: Dark Shadows, as it seems the game doesn't get along well with Windows 
 XP SP2 (the rock solid OS that's home to every other PC game out there) . Upon introducing the first 
 disc and starting the installation, the progress bar got stuck and I was never asked to insert 
 the second disc. A quick online search brought up 2 patches, one of them an "installation patch" 
 that allowed the game to finish the installation process.
  
  To be fair the patch worked, but a quick glance to the readme file made it clear what kind of game 
 I was dealing with here: shovelware. Not only is the readme file reminiscent of a user made mod 
 readme, it actually asks for you to run a diagnostic tool whenever the game crashes (that is, they 
 know the game will eventually crash) and email the results to the developers so they can work on 
 the problem. However when that statement is written like this...
  
  "Then I will know where your problem is and I will fix it for you. :) ) "
  
  ... it's hard to 
 take it seriously.
  
  Now, if technical issues were the only problem, you could forgive an indie developer with limited 
 funds for stumbling while trying to make a good game, but it's impossible to find any redeeming 
 qualities in Legacy.
  
  For starters, it's hard to figure out what the hell the game is about, aside from the fact it's 
 a point and click adventure game. You start out in some sort of WWII tent just beside some trenches 
 without any sort of introduction, so it's up to you to figure out what to do or how to do it. After 
 a few minutes of pointless interaction with the few objects around, you'll trigger a cutscene where 
 a plane drops off a crate and for some reason opening it brings up an intro cutscene (where nothing 
 is described or introduced either) . Next thing you know you're a woman called Ren (the game doesn't 
 tell you her name) in a futuristic subway. Apparently Ren is in some private investigation but 
 you wouldn't know it by playing the game (every bit of story I've got came from the game's box 
 or the internet) . After this you're let loose on the city and the exciting adventure begins.
  
  That is if your idea of a thrilling adventure is aimlessly wandering around cheap looking environments, 
 without a clue about what you have to do and engaging in some painfully bad conversations with 
 uninteresting NPCs.
  
  You see, every aspect of Legacy oozes cheapness. The voice acting and dialogue are terrible. Every 
 word coming out of Ren's mouth sounds uninspired and the bizarre and senseless dialogue doesn't 
 help. Couple this with some heavily accented performances and just sitting through a conversation 
 can make you wish for the sweet release of death. The graphics are bland and dated, while character 
 animation is just plain odd (Ren doesn't walk, she sort of glides through the world) . Even when 
 talking, Ren's lips never move.
  
  Worse, the interface (which is a heavily touted feature on the box) is a complete mess. Clicking 
 on an NPC will show three options but you'll have to click all three of them to figure out what 
 they do, and to click on them you have to actually place the pointer a little bit away from the 
 icon (!?) . Navigating through the inventory and diary (which is the only place where Legacy does 
 any sort of storytelling) is just painful, since just like with everything else in this atrocity, 
 the game doesn't explain how to interact with them. Even the main menu is broken, as multiple boxes 
 appear for the same options (though not all of them functional) , completley misalgined.
  
  The final nail in the coffin is a hideous rap song that plays while the credits roll (which are 
 shown every time you exit the game) . Oh wait, there's more, because the credits loop on forever 
 unless you press the ESC key, which will bring up an error message...
  
  Sadly, the only error here was buying this game in the first place. I'm a very forgiving gamer, 
 but Legacy: Dark Shadows is an unredeemable effort. I should've known better when I saw that the 
 box touted "Hi-Res textures of up to 1024*768" or the fact that there was an in-game diary as novel 
 features. Even at $15, this was a complete waste of money (and the game originally retailed for 
 $30) . I realize indie developers don't have big budgets to work with, but whenever a product hits 
 retail stores a certain degree of quality is expected. Legacy: Dark Shadows fails to even get close 
 to it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
