-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Legacy of Kain: Defiance
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/legacyofkaindefiance/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 19, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.9
Critic Score: 7.3, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 904 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Crystal Dynamics
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date:     Dec 17, 2003 &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Legacy of Kain: Defiance has an outstanding premise, but it's ultimately a disappointment. 

 
  It's rare enough to find a truly memorable main character in a game, let alone two. Legacy of 
 Kain: Defiance is instantly appealing to fans of this long-running action adventure series, since, 
 for the first time, it lets you play as both the arrogant vampire, Kain, as well as the determined 
 half-demon, Raziel, in their continued quest to confront each other and defy their respective fates. 
 The strength of the Legacy of Kain series has always been these characters, though the Soul Reaver 
 games starring Raziel also featured some rather striking innovations and inventive puzzles. The 
 new Legacy of Kain: Defiance, now available for the PC weeks after the game debuted on the Xbox 
 and PlayStation 2, follows in the footsteps of its predecessors, but it offers a new, faster-paced 
 combat system, a typically smooth frame rate, and an overall presentation that clearly resembles 
 Capcom's influential PS2 game Devil May Cry. Unfortunately, this new presentation isn't fully realized, 
 leading to awkward camera angles and needlessly confusing gameplay, though Legacy of Kain fans 
 will still want to struggle through just to see what happens when Kain and Raziel finally encounter 
 each other once again.  

          Two great characters are better than one: Kain and Raziel are both playable in Legacy of 
 Kain: Defiance.     

  The story of Legacy of Kain: Defiance is convoluted and seems intended primarily for those who've 
 been keeping up with the series, but even if you have, you might find the events of this game difficult 
 to follow. Basically, you'll alternately play as Kain and Raziel through many of the same levels, 
 but at different times. Kain's journey begins when he raids the Sarafan stronghold to confront 
 the manipulative Moebius, who seems to know how Kain's and Raziel's fates will intertwine and what 
 is to become of the land of Nosgoth once their conflict comes to an end. Raziel's journey begins 
 when he breaks free from the clutches of the octopuslike Elder God and presses on to meet his destiny. 

  Simon Templeman and Michael Bell, the expert voice actors who have provided these characters with 
 their personalities ever since the first Legacy of Kain and Soul Reaver titles, again reprise their 
 roles and deliver the same high-quality performances that fans would expect. Frequent in-engine 
 cutscenes are used to convey the storyline, but it's all still rather confusing and eerily similar 
 at first to the plot of Soul Reaver 2. If you've been following the series, expect to encounter 
 the same cast of characters and to listen to the same type of philosophizing that you've heard 
 before. On the other hand, if you've been following the series, you'll be pleased to know that 
 things finally come to a head here, and the characters confront the answers and the enemies that 
 they seek. And, if you're new to the series, Defiance offers some supplemental material that can 
 bring you up to speed.  

  The PC port of Defiance is essentially identical to the console versions, though you can run it 
 at higher resolutions. Of course, you'll need an eight-button gamepad (digital or analog are both 
 fine) to get it to control reasonably well or else you're stuck with the clunky default keyboard 
 controls. It seems exciting to be able to play as both Kain and Raziel, but, in the context of 
 the game, the biggest difference between the two is their personalities, rather than how they play. 
 They have very similar moves and abilities, which is rather disappointing, since there was clearly 
 an opportunity here to make both characters unique in their own rights. Each character brandishes 
 the powerful reaver blade -- Kain, in its bloodthirsty corporeal form, and Raziel, in its soul-stealing 
 spirit form -- and each character can perform nearly identical moves and combos using his respective 
 version of the sword. Both characters can also rapidly dodge from side to side, easily eluding 
 most foes. For good measure, they can use telekinetic blasts either to break objects or to shove 
 enemies. In Kain's case, he can grab hold of them and fling them around, which is good for some 
 sadistic fun but is usually not as effective as the reaver's heavy slashes.  

  Both characters may feed on their victims to restore their health. Kain sucks their blood, either 
 telekinetically or, for the first time ever, by chomping their necks like a good vampire should. 
 Meanwhile, Raziel literally swallows their souls. When fighting groups of enemies, it's really 
 not dangerous to stop and feed on one, since the others will tend to do nothing while you drink 
 or eat your fill. Even if you do lose all your energy, you just start back at a recent checkpoint -- Kain 
 and Raziel are both immortal -- so the combat in the game isn't challenging. It definitely gets tedious, 
 though, due to the generally bland variety of enemies and the limited variety of attacks available 
 to Kain and Raziel. They'll acquire a few special moves during the course of their adventures, 
 but actually, these are nothing special, so you'll instead be relying on the same types of combos 
 over and over. Eventually you'll realize you can just run right past most enemies, though often 
 enough, you'll be forced to fight before you can proceed to the next area.  

          Kain and Raziel play almost exactly alike, but the disorienting camera perspective is a 
 much bigger problem.     

  As in other games in the series, once you've smacked around the typical bad guy, he or she will 
 be dazed so that you can finish the job. Feeding on them is one way to finish off most enemies 
 you'll encounter, or you may run them through with the reaver, which charges it up. It's easy to 
 fully charge the reaver, and when you have, it'll do more damage and let you pull off a special 
 move -- usually an area-effect attack of some sort. It's too bad that Kain and Raziel are limited 
 to using the reaver. In previous games, they each had various brutal finishing moves depending 
 on which weapon they were using, including just their claws. In Defiance, you'll have seen everything 
 the combat has to offer very quickly. You can use a fierce attack to pop enemies into the air, 
 then jump up and whale on them while they're still aloft, but this actually seems pretty goofy 
 in a game that otherwise tries to take itself seriously. Capcom pioneered the over-the-top midair 
 combo, and Capcom can keep it.  

  Both Kain and Raziel run equally fast -- much faster, incidentally, than in previous Legacy of Kain 
 games -- and their jumps are virtually identical. By pressing and holding the jump button again while 
 in midair, you can make either character drift down more slowly, which often comes into play when 
 you need to catch a ledge that seems just out of reach. Both characters can climb and also dematerialize 
 through barred doors, though the catch is that Raziel can't do so while in physical form.    

  As in the Soul Reaver games, Raziel can exist either in the material plane or in the spectral plane, 
 which is a ghostly version of the real world, in which water has no buoyancy and weird monsters 
 run amok. Raziel can shift from the material plane to the spectral plane at any time, but he may 
 switch back only from certain points, a fact that comes into play in many of the game's puzzles. 
 You'll switch to the spectral plane to get through certain gates or get past certain obstacles, 
 and then you'll have to find a way to switch back so that you can do things like open doors and 
 manipulate objects. When Legacy of Kain: Soul Reaver introduced this phase-shifting mechanic back 
 in 1999, it was inspired and innovative. In Legacy of Kain: Defiance, it doesn't seem nearly as 
 fresh, and it mostly just forces you to do a lot of legwork. Raziel's sequences tend to take much 
 longer than Kain's more action-oriented sequences, but oftentimes they're relatively less fun. 

          Repetitive combat and simple key hunts dominate the gameplay.     

  Thank goodness these characters run quickly, because they'll be doing an awful lot of running back 
 and forth during this game. Defiance is split up into more than a dozen chapters, and some of the 
 later ones are quite big, allowing you (and sometimes requiring you) to move across vast stretches 
 of territory. The game uses a roving camera perspective, so unlike in recent games in the series, 
 you don't always get an ideal vantage point. In Capcom's Devil May Cry, this roving camera technique 
 was used to give the game a distinct sense of style and plenty of cinematic flair. That seems to 
 have been the goal here, too, but the roving camera in Defiance is much more of a nuisance than 
 anything. Awkward, sudden shifts of the camera will cause you to become disoriented, forcing you 
 to compensate on the controls and possibly causing you to lose your sense of direction. The inability 
 to move the camera to where you'd like it (you do have a limited, but largely useless, ability 
 to pan the perspective) makes many of the jumping sequences needlessly annoying and also results 
 in enemies routinely blindsiding you from off the screen. Foreground objects will occasionally 
 obstruct your vision, as well. Many hours into the game, these things don't cease being problematic. 

  But the biggest issue isn't the camera perspective. It's that the lack of an automap or even a 
 compass needle, coupled with the constantly shifting perspective, can be maddening. Add vague mission 
 objectives and open-ended environments, and you have a recipe for frustration. Defiance, at its 
 core, is a very linear game. But, even though you'll always have to perform specific tasks at specific 
 places to proceed with the plot, it can be unnecessarily difficult, and it's not always clear what 
 those tasks are or where, exactly, you're supposed to be going. A longtime fan of the Legacy of 
 Kain games might get the impression when first playing Defiance that the noticeably faster movement 
 speed of the characters must mean that some of the pointless wandering of the previous games will 
 be at a minimum here. Sadly, that's not at all the case. It'll take you probably twice as long 
 to finish Legacy of Kain: Defiance than it would take you to get through the average action adventure 
 game these days, but, in the end, a number of these hours will seem like they were wasted.  

  Since the combat in the Legacy of Kain games has never been particularly good, the series has 
 relied heavily on puzzle solving -- and this game is no exception. However, most of the puzzles are 
 rather uninspired block-pushing, lever-pressing affairs. Aside from those, most of the game consists 
 of key hunts, only the keys here have fancy, gothic-sounding names, like the "rusted scales." As 
 both Kain and Raziel, you'll imbue the reaver with various elemental properties, which allow you 
 to access certain areas you couldn't previously reach and which cause the blade to emit different-looking 
 sparkles. This, too, will be familiar territory to the fans of the series for whom this game is 
 ideally suited. Moreover, though it sounds like a cool idea that you'll get to visit the same environments 
 but at different points in time (and from both Kain's and Raziel's perspectives) , in practice, 
 you'll find that the highly repetitive scenery just gets old.  

  The game looks impressive at first glance, but it starts to come apart at the seams -- literally, 
 sometimes -- the longer you play. On a midrange PC, you'll be treated to a perfectly smooth frame 
 rate more often than not. And, on a high-end PC, you can get this game looking considerably sharper 
 and better than the console versions, though some of the textures don't look as flattering in high-res. 
 The character models for Kain and Raziel look quite good (though very similar to these characters' 
 appearances in the Soul Reaver games) , which is fortunate since their appearances won't change 
 during the course of the game. Elaborate textures adorn the sometimes complex level architecture, 
 thus making everything look wonderful when you're just passing through. However, most of the enemies 
 you'll face and many of the animations in the game look rather corny, and the detailed-looking 
 environments are mostly just window dressing, aside from some breakable pieces of furniture. Worse, 
 some pretty glaring clipping issues and collision detection issues both in and out of combat mar 
 the game's appearance and cheapen the overall feel. Nevertheless, the visuals in Legacy of Kain: 
 Defiance stand out as one of the game's most obvious high points.  

          Legacy of Kain: Defiance misses the opportunity to really differentiate its main characters. 
     

  Apart from the excellent voice acting, Defiance doesn't sound like much. The synthesized soundtrack, 
 which picks up during combat and drones quietly otherwise, loops frequently and, at worst, sounds 
 cheesy. Many sound effects are recycled from previous Legacy of Kain games, the sounds of combat 
 are very subdued, and ambient noise is minimal. Of further note, when Raziel is in the spectral 
 plane, there's no music. However, there's this one looping ambient track where you hear a woman 
 crying (in addition to other noises that are kind of spooky) , but because you'll spend so much 
 time in the spectral plane, this gets old fast.  

  Legacy of Kain: Defiance has an outstanding premise, but it's ultimately a disappointment. It certainly 
 isn't a bad game, and fans of its main characters should play it just to see more of Kain's and 
 Raziel's interactions with each other and the rest of the Legacy of Kain cast. Unfortunately, though, 
 the gameplay itself just isn't particularly entertaining, thanks to the one-two punch of the constantly 
 shifting camera angles and the lack of a map. Rather than presenting you with sophisticated puzzles 
 or tough opponents, the challenge here primarily comes from having to memorize a lot of same-looking 
 passageways to compensate for a camera perspective that impairs fluid gameplay. This is one of 
 those rare games whose characters and story, to some extent, supersede the problems in the gameplay 
 but not to such an extent that this game can be fully recommended.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (39 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: hellside
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  I like the whole series, you can name out some weak points of the game, but these weak points exist 
 all along, and apart from these unchanged issue, many have been improved compare with its premise.
 
  First, the graphic is definitely better, and we can describe it as"excellent", and it does not 
 require a very good computer to show its beauty, when I play the game, I use a FX5600, the game 
 is smooth with all effects on.
  Then there is the music, not much new track, many are remix version of the old and classic tracks, 
 I like that, but that is just my opinion.
  And don't forget the story, Soul Reaver 2 is one of my favorite game, as it has a very good story 
 and full of puzzles which can be solved with your mind ,not with a boring walkthrough.
  Honestly, the puzzles are not as good as SR2, but still you don't need a walktrough, enjoy the 
 story, solve the puzzle, and fight some enemies... did I said that the battle system is better then 
 its premise? The battle system has some similarity with Devil may cry, not as good of course, but 
 acceptable.
  I did not experience the so called camera perspective problem, and I never lost my way without 
 a mini map or pointer or something like that. People are not like play the game themselves these 
 days, they want walktrough, they want deep analysis, they want auto path finder, what has happened 
 to the spirit of exploring?
  Anyway, if you played the premises, you have no reason to ignore this game, and if you haven't 
 played the premises yet, I strongly recommend you to play, at least the Soul Reaver 1 and Soul 
 Reaver 2, It might become one of your favorite game as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow997
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 30, 2008 1:59 am PT
Review:  Ok so here we go i must say that my english its not very good at all so please forgive me ^^
  Graphic: Graphic its fantastic for 2003 ;) (i think?)
  Sound: Really great ;) like real xD
 
  Gameplay: Here i want give you some longer reading xP GAMEPLAY
  
  In this game you play as a Raziel dead angel of death who eat souls and Kain vampire who drink 
 blood x)
  You an do amazing combos i really like this game i can finish this game and start again ;) i am 
 playing it about ... 300 hours !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  I just cant quit it ;)
  Well i really love this game ;) i like play as a vampires so much so i love this game so much lol 
 :P well that's all for now :)
  
  THANKS for reading and please agreed with me or not :)
  
  Well PC version its the best i think :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinger839
Rating: 6
Date: May 28, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  I love the Legacy of Kain storyline. This is the only PC game I've ever bothered pre-ordering. 
 I started playing in the LoK world when Soul Reaver 2 finally got a port to PC (I have a permanent 
 boycott on Sony consoles) , then I played through the first Soul Reaver and Blood Omen just in time 
 for Blood Omen 2 to come out. While storywise this game stays on par with its epic and winding 
 plot, the controls, setting design, and camera are all so awkward that at times it is near impossible 
 to do something that would have been simply "really hard" to do in Soul Reaver 2. 
  
  As there are no maps and the world is vast and without many landmark distinctions, it is very easy 
 to get lost and spend an hour just wandering around in circles trying to figure out what inanimate 
 object you need to manipulate to move on. Fights with minor enemies look cool if you can get the 
 controls down, but the combinations are much harder to do than in SR2 and BO2 which ultimately 
 makes them less fun. Boss battles are actually easier than previous installments, but this is good 
 as this is when your attacks can really look great.
  
  The switching between Kain and Raziel is confusing and sometimes frustrating when you have to go 
 over the same area again. I had my friend play through most of the game just so I could watch the 
 cut sequences and see the story unravel. In other LoK games, the gameplay (especially in SR2) is 
 just as fun and motivating to advance the plot as the cut-scenes but in this version, it is nearly 
 unplayable, with some of the (should be simple) platforming feats required of Raziel being WAY 
 too difficult and the "logic puzzles" being mostly devoid of logic and better left to chance. As 
 I said, I had a friend play through this and I only played a few boss sequences because after three 
 hours of wandering around the same location and still being utterly awful at the controls, I couldn't 
 take it any longer. It still took him surprisingly long to get through, so I include his gameplay 
 time in my appraisal (as I sat there watching most of it) .
  
  I'd recommend that LoK fans just get their hands on the cut scenes, or find some other players' 
 save files that allow you to just play the better bits and boss battles. With SR2 and BO2 being 
 so awesome, I expected far more than just better graphics rendering; I expected the gameplay to 
 actually work and the settings to be equally comprehensible as the prior games.
  
  SPOILER
  The battle between Kain and Raziel is fantastic, probably the best thing conceptually 
 about this game, because you get to play out the sequence as both characters. But I'd rather watch 
 it than play it, as the controls just become too overwhelming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silpion21
Rating: 9
Date: May 16, 2008 7:15 am PT
Review:  This game serves it cause and that is to end a very good series of games. It very nice to play 
 in the same game both characters witch have different ideas about the story. First we have Kain 
 from the series began, with Blood Omen and then we have Raziel former saraphan turned in to a vampire 
 and then a soul hunter. But let's talk about the game .....
  
  The first thing that I love about this game is the story witch is so constant between the games, 
 it's so fluid from the first to the last. Then we have the graphic part witch has been improved 
 a lot since Soul Reaver 2, all looks good and almost real, but this can be pulled down by the camera. 
 I had some hard times getting it to do what I wanted or see a token or something like that. 
  The game difficulty is just right and if you are familiar with the other games it become more easy. 
 The boss fights are interesting but get repetitive at Raziel, where you have to destroy the fallen 
 guardians to imbue the reaver with a new power. The best fight is, and I think you all will agree 
 with me , between Kain and Raziel , that is the fight every player has been expecting since Soul 
 Reaver if I'm not mistaken. The puzzeles are kinda easy but at least they are different and some 
 of then can make you think a little before doing something. The fighting system is very easy and 
 the producers have introduced some new moves for Kain and Raziel, as you fight more you unlock 
 more moves witch are very nice. 
  The one thing I don't like is that they have removed Raziel's dieing mode , witch I will explain 
 , in Soul Reaver 2 if you were in the real world and let's say you die , you go in to the spectral 
 realm witch was cool because you can refill and return from there , but in Defiance they've removed 
 this thing for what I don't know, maybe to make it even for Kain. 
  
  In the end this is a very good game with a captivating and interesting story that compensates for 
 the moments when the camera doesen't do what you tell her to do. For the fans and for all this 
 game is a MUST HAVE !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bogdan_264326
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2008 9:17 am PT
Review:  general facts:
  
  well, the game definetly is good, but compared with its predecessors it's almost close to nothing. 
 the graphics are a real improvement, not to mention the fact that you can control both kain and 
 raziel in an alternative way (i. e. kain does his share of the story, then raziel, then kain and 
 so on) . the outcome of these events are that they meet face to face in battle. of course, this 
 is obvious since raziel's arrogance is what destroys kain and the events take place in a full circle 
 once again (if it were for kain, the battle wouldn't have taken place, janos audron wouldn't have 
 been resurrected, thus he won't be posessed by the hylden) . this is something that could have been 
 avoided in the game and create another set of events (who knows, maybe another game. but it wasn't 
 meant to be. sad really) . although, if you played the other games (blood omen 1&2, soul reaver 
 1&2) and payed attention to the storyline, you would have noticed that, even if Defiance is the 
 last game of the series, there is still a small frament of the story which is not presented in 
 the game (nor in the other ones) . if you play the game you notice that the end of it, is when kain 
 defeats the elder god and returns to the citadel. now the part that is not presented is when kain 
 takes the reaver back to avernus cathedral for his younger former self to find. last but not least, 
 the storyline had much less events than the other games. that's what dissapointed me the most. 
 most of the time you have to just beat stuff up. there's almost nothing logical for you to do (of 
 course there's the health talisman, the telekinesis or TK rune and the arcane tome but these ones 
 don't count anyway because they're thought to be so called optional quests) .
  
  characters:
  
  the way characters move are an improvement as well. both kain and raziel are 
 more flexible, they can do mid-air attacks, dodge attacks faster and not to mention that they even 
 level up (now that's something you could really enjoy because it opens up a new set of combos for 
 you to try, which are quite usefull) . but with all this comes yet another dissapointment. the enemies 
 are quite weak, which means you level up pretty fast (there are 5 levels for each of them) and 
 if you really get the hang of the game (i mean if you enjoyed it and want to play it again) you 
 notice that you can level up even faster (i. e. get all 5 levels at about 40% of the game or so. 
 THAT'S NOT EVEN HALF THE GAME) . most experienced players use the enemy as a dummy (i. e. throw him 
 in the air, strike him twice, use the TK to pull the enemy towards yourself  this triggers a shield 
 of TK which throws the enemy back into attack range. you repeat this until you get down on the 
 ground again. and if you look at the bottom of the screen you notice that your reaver is already 
 charged to its maximum. this way you level faster) . this is kain's case. and he used only ONE enemy. 
 for raziel is a bit difficult but it's pretty much the same thing. the TK is useless for raziel 
 as well (in battle that is) . of course, i'm talking about the TK you acquire when you defeat turel, 
 your brother. unlike kain, raziel has to use both of his hands for TK. then he has to summon the 
 reaver again. (the delay is quite annoying especially when you're not a beginner, and you're used 
 with kain to use the TK in battle) . but there's an advantage that raziel has over kain. he's more 
 agile (not to mention that his combos look cooler) . if you like the finesse and agile type (like 
 raziel) rather than brute force (that's where kain comes in) he's your man.
  
  things got different:
  
  unlike blood omen 2, kain can't use all of his special powers when 
 he wants to (some of them can't be used at all) . he must have different markers on the ground in 
 order to use them (bat flight and long jump) . i suppose this is excusable since the events in BO2 
 take place after the ones in Defiance (even if the games didn't appear in that order) .
  
  raziel can use his reavers anytime he wants as long as he has them (i'm talking here about soul 
 reaver 2, where he had to charge his reaver with the desired element once again after he shifted 
 into the spectral realm) . and there are a couple of new reavers for you to try as well.
  
  i recommend buying this game. i would do it more for the storyline than the gameplay. but you'll 
 enjoy it nonetheless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baazigar_2000
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2007 6:13 am PT
Review:  Like all previous LOK games in the series, this one too lives up to its name.... I am quite surprised 
 that some people have under-rated this game for minor reasons such as camera angles and gameplay.... but 
 the overall experience (for me anyway) was somewhat awe-inspiring....
  
  In this game you play alternatively as the mysterious Raziel or the merciless Kain... two heroes 
 bound to cross paths eventually (if you would have followed the plots of Soul Reaver 1 and 2, then 
 you may know that both heroes' fates are intertwined) .... there are a whole host of wierd and wonderful 
 enemies to combat, as well as some old skool ones such as vampire hunters, demons, and hylden.... you 
 will also come across some old friends like Vorador, Janos Audron and Ariel... as wel as some sadist 
 scum like Mobius, Necromancer Mortanius and a sinful scrounger called Hash A Gik.....
  
  The graphics, as always are inspirational.... and you may be able to view the paintngs, architecture 
 and surroundings using the right analogue stick... you cant really control the camera angles; they 
 simply move as you charecter moves.... but this may be agood thing, as it will wholly give you guidance 
 on where to go and how to deal with a particular situation... but free movement to see your surrouondings 
 (if you are stuck) is initiated by pressing R3..... The combact system and AI are really splendid 
 for this game... you can do a number of combos, and flay your enemies about as you wish (using the 
 Soul Reaver sword with Kain, and wraith blade with Raziel) ... there are a number of form each weapon 
 can take, and during gameplay, with enough hits to enemies, you can unleash an all-rounder attack, 
 that will thwart your surrounding enemies....
  
  It has a good share of puzzles... that are not too tedious to resolve.... so you may have to collect 
 special items or do an errand for someone in order to progress further into the game..... there 
 are power ups available too, such as increases in health and telekentic powers.... there are various 
 bonus items to collect throughout the game (nothing much as impressive as Soul Reaver 2, but it 
 all adds to the game, doesnt it???) however, iof you successfulyl complete the game as I have done, 
 the you get all this bonus stuff anyway, so you need'nt worry about them......
  
  The story line, as always, continues more or less form where the last game left off... and is thought 
 provoking and intruiging.... it also reflects some of the deception, atrocities, victories, and 
 emotions a human faces throughout life... I persoanlly had mixed emotions throughout the game.... as 
 the game had unexpected plots and twists throughout..... and the ending was memorable.... its such 
 a shame that a further game has not yet been devloped... but you never know..... something like Blood 
 Omen 3 or Soul Reaver 3... or perhaps something like Legacy of Kain: (?????) ...... I dont know, we 
 wil have to wait and see.... I really enjoyed this game; it has its fair share of horro, suspense, 
 action and combat... and, like Soul Reaver 2 and Blood Omen 2, I would love to play it over and 
 over again.... but first I must finish off my 2nd journey into the realms of Blood Omen 2!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miguelrazvan
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  Maybe it's because all my childhood i waited for the next Kain game. Soul reaver came and i finished 
 it as fast as i could. Then Soul reaver 2 came and it was all fun fun for me until i realised that 
 the story goes on. I found myself in front of Blood omen 2 and i said I'll quit the Kain games 
 but defiance rely deserves a chance - i said to myself when i found this game. I played it when 
 it got out, i know it's a bit late to write a review for this game but i would really like to tell 
 some of these people a thing or two about games!
  The gameplay is great even if at some point you will get pissed off because you just fall all the 
 time and have to do everything all over again. ( I still remember Worador's mansion and that annoying 
 part with the pillars) . Even so, i can remember when Raziel wanted to go inside the mansion and 
 you half to fight the statues. Lots of fun. Something I would play for even if the game was 2d 
 is the story. Few games have such a story and to know the end of this one i would do about anything 
 (for the lok fan club - please vote for the making of Lok4 - there is a petition on the internet) .
 
  The graphics were and are amazing. It's a lot of fun to look at how good the characters look. 
 I just couldn't take my eyes off the reaver when the part with Raziel started. And let's not forget 
 the fact that in combat you can break some of the things in the area - with your enemies - 10 for 
 graphics.
  The sound is great. I don't care about the sound very much as long as, at some point, they put 
 Ozar Midrashim. Still, the sound is great and when raziel walks in that library in the mansion 
 you can hear the sound of a scratching paw on the wood of the floor. Value 10 first of all because 
 it's a good game and second of all because it is from Legacy of Kain 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjgamer03
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 22, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Legacy of Kain: Defiance is a good game, but unfortunatly it isn't great nor perfect, the game 
 is worth playing, so you should take a shot at if if your a die-heart Legacy of Kain fan. The graphics 
 are good and the gameplay is also well done, but the storyline and the puzzles of the game lack 
 in interest. Some puzzles are very easy or really hard! And i cn't remember the amount of times 
 i had to go back and forth on a mission to open doors or do something that i need to do in order 
 to move on to the next mission or level, and sometimes i even got lost because there were so many 
 doors and openings that i forgot what i was supposed to do! This was the biggest setback of the 
 game... Many levels with Raziel include him phasing through bars and when you go to the spectral 
 relm back and forth it starts to get really annoying. Raziel's missions arn't really fun . Blood 
 sucking and soul eating was pretty cool at first, but starts to lose it's fun after a few levels 
 because you do it constantly to survive.
  
  the main point is that the game is ok but not really awsome or great, you should definatly play 
 the game either by renting it or buying it with a low price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matagatos86
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 5, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  I m a great fan of LOK games, played all blood omen and soul reaver series several times and my 
 expectations on this game where emormous.
  Te gameplay is fun the music an so but in a couple of hours I realized that even i could make a 
 better game, there's just a couple of bosses, no great threats, no remarcable puzzles and it is realy 
 easy.
  the story is very dissapointing exept for the ending, there was soooo much they could have done... people 
 say that this game has 2 great characters but it has much more, Moebius, The underworld God Vorador 
 but they didnt took advantage of them they just putted kain and raziel to kill some monsters and 
 thats all.
  
  In the previous games the story was incredible, fate was all, you couldnt just change history (Like 
 in back to the future the movie) everybody was tied to its respective fate, but there where ways 
 to change history, so we find that everything in the LOK series (exept for Defiance) is connected, everything 
 has its oun propose, while in defiance things just happen, everyone is free from fate and the logic 
 has disapeared.
  
  Well I could go on with the story gaps but I wont, just play the game, watch the ending movie, and 
 try to sell it to someone who hasn't played it.
  
  P. S,: again, sorry for my english. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hwoarang12
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  I love vampires and all the great things that are contain with it. Thats why Legacy of Kain: Defiance 
 is a very good game for me.
  
  Gameplay: In Legacy of Kain: Defiance we are playing two characters which are Raziel and Kain. 
 We can say that Raziel is the good vampire and Kain is the bad. We will play both these characters 
 in the game so both these characters have different story and adventure so it is very interesting 
 and cool. Because of that the game is more valuable. Each character we play has his own abilities 
 and weapons and of course we will be able to upgrade those abilities. As a vampire you have to 
 drink blood - Kain. Raziel has to abduct lost souls. These things are regenerating our energy. 
 Being a vampire has pluses and minuses. The big minus of being a vampire is this that you simply 
 cant swim and cant get through the streaming water. You will have to avoid water at all cost 
 because water for vampire is like acid. On the other hand we have got pluses. One of these pluses 
 is this that you are really strong. You have great abilities such as telekinesis, long jumps, as 
 a vampire you are very resistant for human attacks. The best story and adventure in this game has 
 Raziel in my opinion. The locations in Legacy of Kain: Defiance are looking really cool and they 
 bring sweet atmosphere of the vampire world. The environment looks interesting and some buildings 
 in some locations are similar to the buildings which were in the Middle Ages. The enemy A. I. is 
 not superb but also is not very bad. Demons, strange looking creatures, guards simply want to kill 
 us and thats all. They just run on us and try to hit. Legacy of Kain: Defiance is a brutal game. 
 We can see a lot of blood around when we are slashing our enemies using sword for example.
  
  Graphics: Graphically Legacy of Kain: Defiance for Pc is not very good. The game was made in 
 2003 and I think developers could make it better. The environment has a lot of pixels. The lighting 
 effects and shadows are not as sharp as they should be. But on the other hand many characters in 
 the game are really detailed like the main characters - Raziel and Kain and some bosses.
  
  Sound: I really like the sound in this game. It is very atmospheric and it builds the drama. Voice 
 acting is standing in high level and weapons noises are realistic.
  
  Overall: Legacy of Kain: Defiance is not a bad game. I dont know why a lot of people dont like 
 it but in my opinion there are not many games with vampires nowadays so if you like that kind of 
 stories than this is the game for you. Im sure that if you like Legacy of Kain franchise and vampires 
 than you should instantly buy it and thats no doubt about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fahad2mail
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 30, 2006 1:31 am PT
Review:  Sour Reaver is one of the greatest series in the pc game. Every one game of the series, ruled their 
 own era. Legacy of Kain: defiance is not different. This is a thired person action adventure game 
 like pop. But things are some how different in the game. Though i think dark prince concept of 
 pop are stolen from soul reavel. Bye the way, the gameplay of the game is good but not great. bt 
 tha amazing thing is, you have to play as both rezail and kain in this game. This is so much fun. 
 Every one have their unique fighting style and special ability. but i dont know y kain is the main 
 charecter of the game, cause i just hate the kain cause onece upon a time he through out the prince 
 in darkness and that prince is rezail. Anyway, here you have to complete many objects to keep moving 
 the game. U know, our hero rezail have an unique power to transform him into soul era where he 
 can go through any metal objects or wave. Sometimes you need that. The enemy design is some different 
 here. The AI of the enemy is improved well. And many new enemy added here. And some of them are 
 like monstar. This is really challanging to beat them. You have to use ur brain to beat them. Our 
 hero rezail's fightng style is a little bit different from other game of the series. Here when 
 u level up, you can make a combo to beat your opponent. Thats great. For every level up, You have 
 a new combo that are much effective than previous one. rezail is also level up by soul shrine where 
 he weill given many sword power. like water element, fire elemint, wind element. And every element 
 sword have its own unique special power. kain is almost same. He will also have combo when he leveled 
 up. But he have some advantage over the rezail. he can go through any obstract in his way. And 
 as he is a vampire, he have more stronger than rezail. Bt this is his disadvantage too. His life 
 drain time after time. For this he have to suck blood from the enemy. His leveld up with his sword. 
 where its bless by some unique stone. To complete your objective, sometime you have to face with 
 each other. Thats really great. And here is many puzzle too. But they are really eassy. In the 
 last seen, there is a climax. But i nto tell u that lol. For that, you have to play the game. The 
 graphysics to great. But the sound can be better. my opinion is this is a great game to add your 
 collections who have any game of the series. And this is also a unique game to collection, who 
 have not played any game of the series. Have fun........... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diablo666_eg
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2006 10:40 am PT
Review:  this is a masterpiece ,seriously i don like alot of blalala
  all i can say ,perfect story, grfx, sound, gameplay
  dont read after the line
  
 
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tutavo
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  if you do not like how history is written you simply rewrite it. thats basically what they are 
 saying, only you can shape your future... anways, defiance is a great game coming from an great 
 series. This time around you play as both Kain and Raziel. as the story unfolds you must unlock 
 their true destiny by killing anything and everything in your way. Throw, them off battlements, 
 suck out their soul, drink their blood, its up to you how to kill them. As you progress you must 
 forge new reaver blades giving you new powers like invinsibility and time stoppage. While slaughtering 
 hordes of mortals you encounter old friends and allies that guide you on your way to destroy the 
 cloak of deception and find the truth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chuiweha
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 19, 2007 3:39 am PT
Review:  Wonderful Game apart from the bad camera angles everything else is Great
  great story Great Voice and great Fighting moves
  Especially the finishing moves The environment 
 was done to detail and the story line as always is almost believable But be ready to get frustrated 
 with the lousy camera angles which make jumping and fighting unnecessarily hard. they should have 
 made the camera adjustable.
  There are less puzzles here and the few around are straight forward and i personally welcome that
 
  All together its a wonderful indulging game that Ill advise anyone to play One of the best single 
 player games around 
::::::

::::::
UserName: britanya
Rating: 6.7
Date: Sep 13, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  the game starts off as a easy game fun to play and exciting but as you get into the game it get 
 alot harder this is the type of game were you have to play it regular otherwise you **** were you 
 are and i becomes impossible to play i reccomend this game to people how have nothing elce to do 
 .
  everthing about this game is good the graphic the sound and the game play BUT there is no note 
 book ( game planer) so if you leave the game you can cheach up on you place and whatyou have to 
 do in the game
  I hate the camara i this game you miss thing you lose control of the charactes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiagor87
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 31, 2006 7:16 am PT
Review:  it's a good game, but i completely finish it in less than 10 hours, and apparently the creators 
 thinks that we are kids, but all the things i have to do in game has a clear way, the game show 
 what you have to do, you don't need to search, is very, very easy. I like lok defiance, i've been 
 playing Legacy of Kain series since the blood omen, the history is quite perfect. if you want play 
 a game that hold you that is the game, but don't forget that defiance could be much more than is.
 
  
  The sound and graphics are good. The game's graphics is better than "Soul Reaver 2" or "Blood Omen 
 2". The sound of the game was always good since the first of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FranKrig
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jul 23, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  So now Sony, again you did damige a real gut series. 
  Sony keep away whit your "ready for the DUMP PS.2 engine. If it only where the PS.1 engine it 
 would be more that okay, It's not and now I hat enough of your giant capitalistic dictatorship, 
 throwing the PC gaming years back and not to mention the idiotic camera dictator contrile, twisting 
 the directions around so a direction is not a direction anny more and you can't see what you must 
 do be cough the cam is focosing on a spot outsite of the areia vhere you are or have to go ore 
 maybe behint a tree or so. The Fuxkxxg cam have to move so the PS2 is able to read and write the 
 graphic. 
  BUT I dont care about if Sony makes a console of parts the got for free because there to old and 
 slow that any serious graphic-cart producer would put them in any card at all. 
  Only Sony would take them it seams.
  But I do care if they damige a good game. 
  
  Were 
 many PC and Mac gamers suffering this decision. 
  And believe it or not I have a PS.2. Neat to know what I'm talking about that's why. And sure some 
 games runs also better on Ps that Pc. if there made for it but not all only if it's a rasing game 
 ore games whit a Ps.1 engien.
  
  About this game; change the engine back to PS. 1 or make the game for a serious console or pc/Mac. 
 
  I really dId stopped playing all PC games I own whit PS. 2 engine, else I would have eaten my mouse 
 crashed my keyboard and jumped around on my computers. Or the game-CD's and thats not what I did. 
 No sometimes I only spit on my PS.2, not to mention if you thing about what I could do to it out 
 on the toilet. ;-) Just kitting it should be on Sonys toilet of curse.
  
  Heir SONY is a list of my PC games readdy for the DUMP because of you're capitalistic-dictatorship: 
 
  1- Legacy of Kain Defiance. 
  2- Lord of the rings The King. 
  3 -Lord of the rinds the two towers. 
  4 - Prince of Persia worrier within. 
  5 - Prince of 
 Persia sand of time. 
  6 - Cat woman. 7 - GTA vice city. 
  9 - GTA vice city. 
  And many many more. just take a look at my games list here and you'll se that I have all of legacy 
 of kain + S. R. and the only one of them on the list is L. o. K. Defiance. 
  The reat on the list are games you also did crash whit your disastrous PS2 Sony politik. So Stop 
 that and make your own games mend for the ones you got as novice's for your SONY religion, and 
 KEEP AWAY from the real games and gamers if I may say so THANKS!!!!!.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soldi3r1stClass
Rating: 7
Date: May 26, 2006 5:29 am PT
Review:  My review of Soul Reaver 2 tells a lot about my opinion of how the second was inferior to the first. 
 In the exact same way the third is inferior to the second. The puzzles are mostly tedious and the 
 fights are fun but get repetitive quickly.
  
  Again what drives this game entirely is the amazing story. Defiance finally answers all the questions 
 and wraps the story up perfectly. You're left in awe, despite all the games flaws, and are very 
 satisfied with the heavy feeling on your heart.
  
  The voice acting is unrivaled and the series even hints at the possibility of a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n0s2004
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 9, 2006 4:36 am PT
Review:  Finally we get the chance to find out how the story in LOK is going to end. It's the usual happy 
 ending like other games but still good enough. You can play to find out how it ends. Let's get on 
 with the review.
  
  Graphically it's way better than Soul Reaver 2 ever was. Raziel no longer looks like a block head 
 & Kain isn't a skinny weakling how he looked in SR2.
  Sound, music & voice acting are amazing as you'll expect from a LOK game. Gameplay is solid offering 
 a fighting system a bit similar to DMC. The game will only take you around 10-12 hours to beat.
 
  
  The best part about Defiance is that you can play as both Kain & Raziel. So this makes this absolute 
 must buy for LOK fans while others will only enjoy it if they can understand the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pranavdhoot
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 5, 2006 6:38 am PT
Review:  If you wanna torture someone make him/her play this game or what ever it is. it's really a disaster. nothing 
 is worse 30 to 40% out of 100 in gameplay.. 75% in graphics,30% in value... a total Waste... the 
 sound is O. K 50%
  
  I DONT RECOMMEND THIS GAME..... Bye something like painkiller or or call of duty 1 or2,, Halo,, 
 those are great even Kill. switch is good.
  
  the controls could be better... the PROPER use of mouse and keyboard combo.. the present one are 
 sometimes difficult to handle properly and irritating too. the game saving could be better by letting 
 the game save and resume anytime when the player wants rather than saving and then resuming from 
 the checkpoint.. which forces the player to play the whole level again if he/she dies further in 
 the level.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: velociraptor
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 24, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  "Given the choice, whether to rule a corrupt and fading empire... or to chanllenge one's fate for 
 a better throw at one's destiny...... WHAT was a king to DO?? "" quote from opening cinematic.
 
  
  The legacy of kain series is an amazing RPG series. I never like RPG's. but defiance got me into 
 the series. Defiance is an action adventure game like Blood omen2, soul reaver 1 and 2. However 
 apparently Blood omen 1 is more RPG'ish. 
  --------------------------------------------------------------
  GFX 8/10
  --------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The graphics do seems low res textures by today's standpoint but make no mistake... it is still 
 pretty good in-game. It gives a good feeling of immersion. Being a gfx junkie.... I would prefer 
 even more detail .... but for 2003 release the game seems definately acceptable.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------
  MUSIC /SOUND 10/10
  -------------------------------------------------------------
 
  What can I say.... Michael Bell, Simon Templeman, Tony Jay all sound amazing as usual. The best 
 voice acting in any game series as EVER. Very atmospheric. The music definately fits the mood and 
 gives the drive to push on. Its eery and very very well made
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------
  GAMEPLAY 8.8/10
  ---------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Apart from contorary belief , I like the camera very much. Gives a cinematic feeling. Of course 
 the occasional drop off from a ledge because of camera shifting.... but its no biggie. You will 
 get used to it ... and once u do.... u will not feel like getting back to old SR cameras.
  The combat is absolutely amazing. The TK ability is wicked.... The best level has to be the sarafan 
 bridge where u can throw enemies on statues and try all wierd kind of ways to break the railing. 
 I RECOMMEND to use a force feedback gamepad for this game. It is absolutely jawdropping and exciting.
 
  The story line is as expected from the LOK series... marvellous.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dertinmann
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 22, 2006 2:24 am PT
Review:  As always LoK features a great story with great characters, that finally look good being a 2003 
 game.
  
  Graphics: very nice but soooooo repetitive. Blah!
  
  Gameplay: I wouldve cored it lower because its stupid but the world is bigger and the combat 
 system is actually great. If you practice you can do wonderful combos against various enemies and 
 that helps the gameplay score up a bit. Not too much though because the camera and controls are 
 frustrating at best.
  
  Sound: meh... really: just meh.
  
  Value: well the frustration of playing the game drags my score down. But the style and story of 
 the game are very good. If youre a fan thats what makes this game good...
  
  My tilt: all in all I think the combat system, eerie style, great story/characters outweigh the 
 bad gameplay. Just not by much.
  
  Fellow fans: play this!
  The rest: rent it first... if you like it buy it for 10$ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightrade
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is truly a masterpiece to me. I don't know why some people say this game isn't good, 
 but I look at it differently. This game has a very good story and plot to it. Great graphics and 
 effects. Also the game play is simple enough for anyone to learn. I highly recommend this game 
 especially if you like action adventure and vampires. This game is also best of the Legacy of Kain 
 series. So if you have not played it yet, I suggest you check it out. But if you don't like it 
 because you don't understand the story of the game, you should then check out the soulreaver and 
 blood omen games. Still they are not as good as this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: judaspete
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 16, 2006 9:00 pm PT
Review:  The original Soul Reaver is one of my favorite adventure/platformers of all time. The story was 
 dark and well acted, it had a great balance of combat and puzzles, and it was one of the most immersive 
 games out there at the time. But as the series has progressed the story has begun falling into 
 genre cliches, the gameplay has leaned more and more on the combat side of things, and the games 
 have gotten more and more linear to the point that it's separated into levels and broken up by 
 loading screens. 
  
  So we get to Defiance. While I will say the combat has improved, it's still kind of loose and wonky. 
 The platforming has deteriorated to a lot of hit or miss jumping due in no small part to the fact 
 that you don't have a whole lot of camera control anymore. And the puzzles have become mostly fetch 
 quests for artifacts and weapons that are really nothing more than glorified keys to large, ornate 
 doors. To top it all off the story has fallen into some derivative Underworld knockoff. That is 
 until the ending, Which is actually quite good.
  
  The voice acting is still top notch and the Gothic levels and settings look amazing. 
  
  All 
 in all, Defiance takes the series in a direction that I myself don't care for, but those who found 
 previous games too slow and exploration heavy may think that's a good thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlienXS
Rating: 4.7
Date: Feb 12, 2006 7:17 am PT
Review:  I waited a lot to complete the Legacy of Kain saga but it seem that game programmer here thought 
 too much about supporting consolles than PC user. the result is a totally hateful controlling interface 
 with camera roaming wherever it likes without caring about what the player need to see and a series 
 of commands not introduced to the player in an organic way.
  after a while the game becomes annoying and boring, a real disappointment after so many good chapters 
 in Soul reaver and Blood Omen saga....
  In some areas when you need enemies to attack so to replenish your reaver you find yourself extremely 
 lonely, doors won't open and you get stuck in a level wasting LOT of time wandering around and 
 cursing :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azraelalpha
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 11, 2006 12:58 am PT
Review:  Although the series was not always game play-oriented, this chapter of the story does not seem 
 polished, apparently the combat system came out rushed for release times which explains the similitude 
 in movements and attacks for both characters, and in the end it makes the game difficult to be 
 enjoyed. Fans of the series will find this game quite satisfying thanks to the story unfolding 
 here, which apparently will come to an end, meaning relief for us, the Full-On gamers. Just making 
 a recap here, if you followed the series all the way back from Blood Omen, you will like this game; 
 if this is the first time with the series, you will be looking at a mediocre action/platform game 
 which promised a lot, but accomplished very little. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeltaCommando07
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  if you do not like how history is written you simply rewrite it. thats basically what they are 
 saying, only you can shape your future... anways, defiance is a great game coming from an great 
 series. This time around you play as both Kain and Raziel. as the story unfolds you must unlock 
 their true destiny by killing anything and everything in your way. Throw, them off battlements, 
 suck out their soul, drink their blood, its up to you how to kill them. As you progress you must 
 forge new reaver blades giving you new powers like invinsibility and time stoppage. While slaughtering 
 hordes of mortals you encounter old friends and allies that guide you on your way to destroy the 
 cloak of deception and find the truth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 6, 2006 1:01 pm PT
Review:  WOW, you can play as both characters and learn about both there backgrounds, as each chracter wants 
 revange on each other.
  
  You play as Raziel, going from level to level, unlocking new storys and finding out more about 
 yourself and the characters, Kain also discovers more about his background, but cant wait to find 
 Raziel, so that he can finaly kill him.
  
  Through out the game, you will find each character just missing each other, as Raziel will have 
 been to a certain place, and as soon as he leaves and heads off else where, kain starts the same 
 level that Raziel had just left from.
  
  This makes you build up the preasure of the game, and fighting lots of original demons to get you 
 through the game, which build up your chrachters strenght for the final battle at the end of the 
 game.
  
  The battle, lets you operate both of the characters, you start with Raziel, which you have to fight 
 kain, Win and then you have the chance to play as Kain, and fight Raziel.
  
  Thats all i can tell you.
  
  Play the game to unlock the truth behind both there unique history. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smileyz_galore
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 4, 2006 10:57 pm PT
Review:  This game was great addictive and very intriguing. But too complicated, the game was very complex. 
 you could be stuck for hours and not know what to do when all you had to do was step in a certain 
 spot. This game is very good but it lacks direction. It would be better if it had a little clue 
 as to how to beat it. TOO COMPLICATED. But i did like how it switched characters between kain and 
 raziel. Raziel was my favorite. The enemy's were easy to defeat but when you were almost out of 
 blood the game became very hard and the mad rush for blood made it challenging.
  
  Overall verdict: great game and good storyline but to complicated 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenermac
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 25, 2005 4:03 pm PT
Review:  As a long time fan of the LoK series, sad for me to say, this game is very disappointing for PC 
 and almost as bad for PS2. The graphics are much better for the PC version and that's about all 
 that kept me coming back. After playing both versions, awkward camera angles has to sum up the 
 negative vibe that this game resonates. Countless times have I fallen into water as Kain, and into 
 the depths of the spectral world as Raziel, because of the horrid angles. Because of the great 
 storyline and graphics (and being such a big fan of the series) however, I stayed the course and 
 am hoping for another installment sometime in the near future! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amdance
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2005 9:25 pm PT
Review:  HOW COULD YOU SAY THAN DEFIANCE HAVE 6.9 POINTS AND HARRY POTTER ANG THE GOF 7.2?? FOR GOD SAKE!. 
 DEFIANCE IS WAY BETTER THAN HP NEW BORING GAME. I LOVED DEFIANCE, GRAPHICS ARE PERFECT, THE STORY 
 IS GREAT, THE GAME PLAY IS GREAT. DAMN! I REALLY LOVED THAT GAME. IM A BIG FAN OF THIS SAGA, AND 
 I REALLY ENJOY IT. 
  
  I DONT HAVE ANYTHING MORE TO SAY, ONLY THAT HPOTTER'S NEW GAME IS A WASTE OF TIME AND 7.2 POINTS 
 VD 6.9 OF DEFIANCE AND IS RIDDICULUS. 
  
  WHAT ELSE? 100 WORDS??, I WANT TO SAY THAT I DONT LIKE THIS RULE OF "100" WORDS. ONE SHOULD PUT 
 WHAT THINKS AND NO MRE, WHY 100 WORDS?, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nezriq
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 1, 2005 11:25 pm PT
Review:  What's to say about the game. Here lies two heroes Kain n Raziel, with tonnes of combos, cool voices, 
 beautiful animation, cool heroes (especially KAIN!!!) , classic story-line and great gameplay!!! 
 Unfortunately, the camera SUCKS!!!
  
  I've been playing the LOK series since Blood Omen. I'm not really into the gameplay, but i was 
 committed to the tale of the series. The story line was beautifully scripted and the heroes of 
 the is just right. They just blended together perfectly.
  
  I enjoy playing the two heroes in two diferent games (Blood Omen & Soul Reaver) n now i can use 
 both in Defiance. Again, Kain is much cooler in every single way, except for the looks of coz. 
 But his costume, voice, structure, skills and weapon is much more implying.
  
  Defiance is superb game with a superb story and a superb gameplay, so whats wit the low ratings??? 
 
  
  Long live KAIN!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stamate
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2005 5:57 pm PT
Review:  cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dakrath
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 12, 2005 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Anybody who has played the Legacy of Kain series can tell you it's faults and it's great points 
 easily. The last two games (Blood Omen 2 and Soul Reaver 2) managed to somewhat fix some of it's 
 faults, and at thesame time occasionly do some great things on their own. Defiance seems to only 
 improve on the previous games.
  
  The Legacy of Kain story, as everyone knows, is very complicated. It involves time travel, strange 
 prophesies, the defiance of one's destiny and a whole lot of philosophy. All in all, it's just 
 confusing. Untill now, every sequel only made it even more confusing, but in Defiance, you'll finally 
 get to know just what the hell is going on. Wich is, for the fans, actually plenty of reason to 
 get this game. 
  
  The games so far, though, have mostly functioned as a vessel for the story. Combat was for the 
 most part pretty unsatisfying and rather boring. And so were the key-lock-block puzzles. Here comes 
 Defiance to save the day!
  
  Well, except for the puzzles. The're still of the key-lock-block type, but they're definitely an 
 improvement over Soul Reaver 2 or Blood Omen 2.
  
  Combat in Defiance is actually fun. Combat is now focussed on mostly fighting off multiple adverseries 
 in gruesome and very over-the-top-ways. Even though the fighting system is pretty out of character 
 with the series, it sure is fun to toss you oppontents into the air, jump after them and hurl them 
 into a wall or into the ground with mid-air assault. 
  
  Another welcome addition to the game is the Telekinetic powers that both Raziel and Kain posess. 
 Raziel can still only fire his simple Telekinetic bolt like he could in Soul Reaver 2, but Kain's 
 powers are downright frightening. Kain can constrain his oppontents in the air then then choose 
 to fling them in any given direction (Think Jedi Knight's Force Grip power) . This can be used for 
 some extremely saddistic fun. 
  
  As you might have noticed, I've compared Raziel and Kain a good bit. This is because they both 
 control extremely similarly. There are some minor diffrences though. Raziel can swim in water, 
 in wich Kain burns. Raziel swallows the soul of his close-to-death oppontents, while Kain drinks 
 their blood Telekinetically or, for the first time ever, by chomping them in the neck like a real 
 vampire. Over the game, both characters also learn various moves, but these only differ in name 
 and look. For example, Raziel learns a move called Perforate Carcass, where he rolls and swiftly 
 stabs his oppontent 5 or so times. At thesame level, Kain leanrs a move called Cadaverous Laceration, 
 where he steps forward and swings his sword swiftly about 5 or so times. 
  
  Although there are some minor timing diffrences, and Kain's sequences are more focussed on fighting 
 where Raziel does more puzzling, Raziel and Kain don't differ much. 
  
  The graphics of this game are very nice. The areas are nicely detailed with crisp and colorful 
 textures, all the characters are very nicely animated and the particle effects (of wich the games 
 tosses plenty at you) all look great. I was particularly rejoiced that the game chose Soul Reaver's 
 colorful and cartoonish art style over Blood Omen's dark and over-serious style. Particularly the 
 fact that Kain looks the way he does in Soul Reaver 2; with his rimpled and distorted face, red 
 cape and downright evil looking eyes. the Kain in Blood Omen 2 never really impressed me much, 
 he looked just like a standard pale-faced archetype vampire. 
  
  The camera in this game is kind of buggy though, with it's newfound cinematic-ness. Occasionally 
 it will confuse you or take an awkward viewpoint during combat. This won't happen as much as one 
 might think though, and it's doesn't significantly hurt the game.
  
  Sound. What is there to be said? It has Micheal Bell and Simon Templeman as good old Raziel and 
 Kain respectively. It has the same great voice actors for Moebius, The Elder God, Vorador and Janos 
 as you heard in the previous games. It has some new music and some old music. It's great. 'Nuff 
 said, right?
  
  When all is said and done, Defiance is a great game. It's really a treat for any fan of the series. 
 The story is finally cleard up, and the combat has undergone a great overhaul. The boring old puzzles 
 you so despised are back, and so are the awesome characters, the colourful enviroments and the 
 philosophical chit-chat when the aforementioned awesome characters meet. If you liked the Legacy 
 of Kain games, and felt that the combat could use some adjustment, you're going to have fun with 
 this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonasfd
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 2, 2005 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Quite a very good game, with a good storyboard (incredible creative) - you play with both antagonist.... and 
 you know they will fight someway at sometimein the game.
  The vampire story has a charm itself. You must drink your enemies blood (if you're Kain) or sucks 
 your enemies soul (if you're Raziel) to increase your Blood/Soul 'LifeBair'. 
  The battle system are just INCREDABLE... in real time, fast and dynamic.
  The jump system is 
 quite complicated and strange.
  The enemies are smart and you have many surprises during the game like enemies evolution during 
 battle or prisoners becaming monsters.
  Greater than this you have many special attacks and bonus material.
  I think the vampires could 
 have more spells, they only have their powerfull reavers and their telekinetics.
  
  Very good to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SigmaElement
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 13, 2005 9:35 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, has two heroes, both great and amazing, you can use some great combos like 
 in Devil May Cry, and has a lot of great stuff. well... both characters are pretty much the same, 
 both use same combos and similar skills, but to be able to use 2 make the story more interesting. 
 
  
  This game has a great gameplay, and has some interesting background... speaking of its story...
 
  
  It all started in Blood Omen ... a hard to understand game... and when you think that you start 
 to understand the "Why" of some things then it appears soul reaver... with a different POV of the 
 whole story... and when you start to understand this one, everything changes in the soul reaver 
 2 and then again it changes in defiance...
  
  The story of the game is hard to understand because it has changed a lot... it wasnt as it was 
 originally planned... or at least thats what it looks like... starting by the fact that it ends 
 in "to be continued..." 2 time in a row... (both soul reavers) ... and the end of the game... really 
 doesnt explains anyithing... there are a lot of questions in the air...
  
  Defiance by itself its a great game... but they forgot to take care about the story... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjai18
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2005 1:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is easily the best game in the Legacy of Kain series, I honestly do not understand why 
 Gamespot under-rated it so much, this game is perfect, the gameplay is just awesome, all the new 
 abilities they added, the graphics and sound are simply amazing, and best of all, the storyline 
 and atmosphere are just breath-taking, you rarely see games this days that are this original. I 
 loved everything about it, it has originality, which is more then I can say for most games now-a-days. 
 Do not listen to Gamespot's review, they basically never know what they are talking about, play 
 it for yourself and realize how amazing this game is.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevkev009
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 18, 2004 7:46 pm PT
Review:  While someone completely new to the series will not completely grasp the story, as this story began 
 4 games ago, the gameplay will surely satisfy them with its interesting puzzles and fantastic multi-opponent 
 battle system. The graphics and sound are consistent with the other games of the series, and thereby 
 preserving the atmosphere of the Legacy of Kain universe. Some people have complained about the 
 camera, but it really isn't that bad, and you will become accustomed to it over the course of the 
 game. This game was enjoyable, and I look forward to the next game in the Legacy of Kain series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Furious1116
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2003 10:07 am PT
Review:  Another biased, groundless review from Gamespot. Its garbage reviews like this that make me want 
 to revoke my membership.
  
  Don't listen to a word they said in this review... this is an outstanding game. Playing as both 
 Kain and Raziel is joy. Though they control the same, and get the same types of special moves, 
 they are ultimately different characters. The Reaver powers they gain set them apart from one another, 
 and in terms of gameplay, Kain is the overall powerhouse in combat, and his game is more combat/key 
 finding, where Raziel is considerably weaker than Kain and his game relies mostly on puzzle solving.
 
  
  There are many questions of the past games, such as Blood Omen, and Soul Reaver 1 & 2, answered 
 and explained, however some things, such as Vorador's presence in Blood Omen 2, and most Blood 
 Omen 2 questions, remain unanswered. The game's combat and core gameplay are much, much better 
 than Blood Omen 2 and Soul reaver 2, whose combat offerings were completely mediocre. The story 
 in this game is outstanding, with excellent voice acting and so many twists and turns that your 
 jaw will be dropped in awe. This is one of the best games to come out in a while... screw the Gamespot 
 review, play this excellent game for yourself. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
