-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Legend of the North: Konung
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/legendofthenorthkonung/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  1, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.5
Critic Score: 5.4, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 5.6, 26 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: 1C
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Dec 31, 2000
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Because of its confusing story, unappealing graphics, and counter-intuitive controls, Konung ends 
 up looking like a Diablo clone that hit the shelves four years too late. 

  Legend of the North: Konung is the sort of game that might have been a lot more impressive if it 
 had been released within a few months of Diablo, Blizzard's original action-packed role-playing 
 game, which shipped at the very end of 1996. Unfortunately for publisher Strategy First and Russian 
 developer 1C Company, Konung has arrived much too late, and, consequently, it suffers severely 
 from its dated graphics and uninspired gameplay.  

          Click for full size image     

  Although it claims to mix in some basic real-time strategy 
 and adventure elements, Konung is essentially a hack-and-slash role-playing game, much like Diablo. 
 You lead one of three heroes on a quest to find and repair the mystical dragon amulet, presumably 
 to save the world -- though the purpose of the quest is never fully explained. As in Nox, Westwood's 
 action-packed role-playing game, each hero in Konung will follow a different path through the game. 

  As your character gains experience, he can recruit other warriors to join him. Apparently, you're 
 supposed to be able to have up to nine followers at a time, judging from the available spaces on 
 the interface. However, it seems that only one character will ever follow you at any point, even 
 though you may have apprentice warriors training all over the gameworld. This is symptomatic of 
 a key flaw in the game: the lack of control over key elements of gameplay. You can ask a shopkeeper 
 to train an apprentice to accompany you, which will generate a first-level fighter, healer, hunter, 
 or blacksmith for you. But you cannot have these would-be companions join you until they reach 
 a specific skill level. That would be fine -- except for the fact that you're given no idea whatsoever 
 what that skill level is. As a result, you can have three to four apprentices standing by in every 
 town you visit, but you still need to enter the wilderness alone for some reason.  

  The controls in Konung are essentially similar to Diablo's simple mouse-driven control scheme, 
 but they are far less intuitive. For example, instead of left-clicking on a target, you have to 
 right-click to launch an attack. It's not a big deal, but it's unnecessarily awkward, since the 
 left mouse button doesn't do a whole lot in the game. You also have to move in and out of combat 
 stance, which can take some getting used to -- you might even find yourself accidentally attacking 
 citizens in town when you're just trying to talk to them.  

  One of the game's most frustrating aspects is the movement speed of your characters. At the default 
 speed setting, your hero and his followers move as slow as molasses, whether they're exploring 
 or engaged in heated combat. You cannot make your characters run, but you can increase the game's 
 speed. This certainly makes your characters scurry about even faster, but it also makes combat 
 pacing ridiculously fast. It can be easy to forget all about the game's speed setting until you're 
 surrounded by a bunch of creatures.  

          Click for full size image      

  Actually, these bunches of creatures are an entirely different problem altogether. The monsters 
 in Konung ramp up from simple (giant ants) to incredibly powerful (undead, giant venus fly traps, 
 brigands) without warning. Your character is very weak as the game begins, and, as a result, he 
 simply cannot use 90 percent of the good weaponry and armor you find throughout the first half 
 of the game. At the same time, when you exit the first area of the game, you are suddenly faced 
 with monsters that are many times more powerful than you are. Combine this with the inability to 
 bring recruits along early in the game, and you have an unusually frustrating formula for a game. 
 Unless you happen to like being killed early and often in games, no matter which path you choose, 
 you'll find that playing Konung offers little satisfaction.   

  Even the graphics in Konung are plain at best and very outdated at worst. Four years ago, players 
 may have come away from the game thinking it was a decent-looking Diablo clone -- but now it simply 
 looks old and tired. Even when the game tries to produce some sort of impressive visual effect, 
 it fails. For example, the lighting changes as time passes, so nighttime is darker and daytime 
 is lighter. But for some reason, the coloring during the middle of the night changes to an ugly 
 greenish hue, which ruins the entire effect. The detail level in the terrain and the buildings 
 is fairly good, but that's about the extent of Konung's graphics.   

  Because of its confusing story, unappealing visuals, and counterintuitive controls, Konung ends 
 up looking like a Diablo clone that hit the shelves four years too late. Even at the bargain-bin 
 price of 20 dollars, it's not worth recommending Konung, because it simply isn't fun.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Cmpunmu3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 7:15 am PT
Review:  Firstly this game is not popular. Somehow i managed to get an original russian version of it (and 
 i'm quite sure english version is a disaster, because i'm playing english Konung 2 now and can 
 really see the difference in the dialogue atmosphere, grammar mistakes and buggy item description) 
 and i was amazed, how so simply looking game could leave a pleasant scar in my heart!
  There are three heroes to play with and all of them have different scenarios, so you can beat this 
 game at least 3 times without getting bored. Will have to manage villages to receive a tribute 
 that is crucial for the game; train people as warriors, blacksmiths, healers, merchants and send 
 then to camps where their skills are required; creating a variety of potions helps a lot, for example 
 in the beginning try to spend your money in buying specific potions from a healer to create wisdom 
 potion and level up your hero in a moments' time.
  Dozens of stat-increasing artifacts to obtain, holy relics to dig out and combine, mythical creatures 
 to fight, legendary people to meet, and all this is set up in the mysterious fantasy world filled 
 with dragons, witches, magicians, curses, scrolls and magical stones.
  I liked the idea about magians/hermits giving you the hints on how to beat the game in case you 
 helped them by solving given quests - don't know what to do next, stuck somewhere and there's nowhere 
 to go - talk to magian, they are generally vital in the game.
  Game could be beaten even without having to fight everyone and everywhere, just the main targets 
 (and there's only two of them) .
  You'll be required to spend some time to level up your hero and upgrade your skills, not just main 
 stats, otherwise you can get stuck in the game and not receive new quests without special abilities, 
 for example masonry - building villages from the ashes and setting up village elder there, building 
 a barracks and implying voevode to train fighters, build a blacksmith and stick a blacksmith in 
 it to repair always wearing off items, build a healers house to be able to get more potions and 
 finally the main quest: building a bridge to cross the river to find your enemies that keep other 
 parts of the sacred relic which gives immortality to it's owner, and then face a dragon that will 
 decide if you're good enough to possess this dangerous artifact.
  This game includes logical, strategical, puzzling and mathematical experience - think twice before 
 you act! Building up your main hero from the first minute you start the game and upgrading your 
 skill without using skill points (if you know what to do) may result in acquiring immortality even 
 without amulet of dragon!
  Contains lots of humor and smart thoughts - people creating this game were surely interested in 
 history and are kind-hearted people, because the dialogues were mostly warm and welcoming.
  Konung HAS NOTHING IN COMMON WITH DIABLO! Hack n' slash system is only a cliche for an amazing 
 game like this! As i said, you don't even have to fight to solve all the quests and enjoy this 
 terrific mythological world.
  [I've been disgusted by Gamespot review, they really did bad on this one, if it would be possible, 
 i would report an abuse] , but never mind them, try it out yourself - beat the game with at least 
 one character, it won't take long, will not regret it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
