-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Legend: Hand of God
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/legendhandofgod/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Follows a comfortable action RPG formula.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Bugs with PhysX make it hard to even start the game.
 Generic story, monsters, and maps.
 Spectacularly obnoxious voice acting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 19, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 5.1, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 5.2, 489 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: ValuSoft
Developer: Master Creating
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Aug 1, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Legend is just another uninspired action RPG. 

  Action RPGs may be a ubiquitous these days, but there is always room for another one... if it brings 
 something new to the table or nails that good old Diablo formula. Unfortunately, developer Master 
 Creating's attempt to both innovate and satisfy tradition has been waylaid by flaws in Legend: 
 Hand of God's design and execution. Repetitive battles, dull maps, no multiplayer, and some serious 
 bugs make Legend a less than optimal choice to kill a couple dozen hours between now and the still 
 depressingly far-off release of Diablo III.  

           Generic spells are still effective at making goblin flamb.      

  You might not be 
 able to get the game running in the first place, as Legend has some serious bugs in its implementation 
 of PhysX, Nvidia's separately-installed physics software. It constantly aborted during startup 
 on our test machine, dropping back to the desktop with the error message that PhysX couldn't be 
 initialized. Trying various Nvidia video and PhysX drivers did nothing to solve this problem. Only 
 a last-ditch Google search hit pay dirt, coming up with the advice that you could work around the 
 PhysX error by deleting the PhysXCore. dll file in the game directory. So, lots of fun. It's hard 
 to tell if this is an Nvidia or a Legend issue, but the end result is a lot of unnecessary frustration. 

  Going through so much hassle isn't exactly worthwhile, either, considering the cliched game design. 
 Everything here is uninspired. You play Targon, a typical studly RPG hero, who's out to rid his 
 medieval fantasy world of Aris of a nasty demon infestation. The key to shutting down a recently 
 established demonic mass transit system is -- you guessed it -- the Hand of God. This mystical MacGuffin 
 is the only thing that can seal the portal that the demons are using, but, of course, the artifact 
 has been broken into three pieces and hidden throughout the land. Your mission is to track down 
 these shards, reforge the Hand of God, and use it to chase the flaming guys with horns back down 
 to hell. Sound familiar? The storytelling is straightforward, at least. Legend lays out the demon-horde 
 angle from the moment the action begins and gets you started on the hunt for the Hand of God at 
 the end of the first major quest, so at least there isn't any cheap attempt to make this derivative 
 tale seem loftier than it really is.  

  Gameplay mechanics are equally uncomplicated. Character development is certainly clear-cut, as 
 you choose two skill paths from five total choices presented at the start of the game. This essentially 
 allows you to mold Targon into a dual-class character, blending traits of the warrior, mage, cleric, 
 thief, and ranger. Select the paths of wilderness and the warrior, for instance, and you create 
 a ranger good with bows. Skills are doled out in trees based on these paths, and they can be purchased 
 with points earned every time you level up. So warriors choose from the likes of battle tactics 
 and weapon block, mages pick from abilities such as fireball and ice arrow, villains take feint 
 and deadly blow, and so forth. There aren't a great deal of choices in these trees, though. Each 
 features just 12 options, which leaves you without much ability to seriously customize your character. 
 At any rate, you generally buff your take on Targon with most of the skills on offer, and take 
 one or two special abilities that you'll lean on during combat throughout the entire adventure. 

  Not that you could do much with a heavily customized character in the dreary levels of Legend. 
 There isn't enough differentiation between character paths and skills to allow you to mix up fighting 
 styles or get into even the rudimentary tactical thinking emphasized by some action-oriented RPGs. 
 Battles are monotonous slogs that always come down to how fast you can click the left mouse button 
 and suck down health potions, so it doesn't much matter whether you're a battlemage or a cleric 
 or a thief. Monster types vary little, as well. You never have to think much about what you're 
 battling, as all creatures in the game fight in pretty much the same fashion no matter what they 
 look like. Altering your battle strategy isn't necessary whether you're taking on thieves or goblins 
 or bears or giants. Random maps underline this monotony. Maps are created on the fly for each game, 
 but this good idea backfires because such randomization breaks the terrain down to collections 
 of anonymous grassy fields and rocks brought to life with a visual engine at least five years out 
 of date. Static maps with interesting architecture would be a lot more compelling than this generic 
 topography, which is so boring that it's impossible to tell one region from another.  

  The only innovative twist in game design comes courtesy of Luna the Light Elf, a buddy of Targon's 
 who inhabits the cursor. This is actually a nifty idea. Luna's existence explains the cursor's 
 presence in the gameworld, which is certainly innovative. She lights the way ahead without forcing 
 you to equip a cumbersome torch. And she also provides tips about the best weapons and armor to 
 pick up and screams warnings to gulp down a health potion whenever you're in danger of shuffling 
 off this mortal coil. So Luna is pretty helpful -- or at least she would've been if she hadn't been 
 brought to life by an actress whose voice will make your ears bleed. Her screeching reminders are 
 a constant presence throughout the game, making her commentary seem more like punishment than assistance. 
 Voice acting in the rest of the game is equally horrific, especially the smarmy frat-boy take on 
 Targon and the one-note monster sound effects such as the "Hah!" muttered by thieves, but at least 
 that dialogue isn't as in your face -- er, in your ears as much as Luna.  

           You want generic hacking and slashing, you'll find it here.      

  As one last kick 
 in the teeth, Legend doesn't even give you the option of skipping out on its lifeless single-player 
 campaign for multiplayer mayhem, because there is no multiplayer option. It's hard to imagine such 
 a perfunctory exercise in action RPG game design being any more enjoyable online than it is offline, 
 although it would have at least been nice to have this as an option. Despite the above litany of 
 complaints, Legend isn't so much an awful game as it is a dreary, cheerless one designed with a 
 paint-by-numbers sense of artistry. Some action RPG fans may find it a reasonable way of passing 
 the time, although more discerning players will quickly grow tired of its lack of imagination. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (28 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Gamer-1024
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 26, 2009 6:10 pm PT
Review:  When the demo was released and we played it we realized that this title would be nothing to write 
 home about, just another Diablo'esque clone.
  
  As far as I can tell, I don't see any great new features built into this game, my mind is set that 
 if you are going to build a diablo clone type of game, then you'd better build a better clone then 
 the last one. Developers have not been able to top Titans Quest to date and so Im often left with 
 a puzzled look on my face when Im playing any of these new (er) clones. This title had me looking 
 puzzled to.
  
  It's your basic Hack 'n Slash diablo clone with poorer controls then what is available in Titans 
 Quest, and a extremely poor way OVERSIZED interface.
  
  To equip items you are shown your character screen, 12 inches of my monitor is dedicated to a 3D 
 animated paper doll, and the other 12" of my monitor is dedicated to my toons stats and inventory.
 
  
  To equip an item you drag it from your inventory over to your paper doll like many games have you 
 do, except since you don't have proper slots to drop the items into, you might find you are dropping 
 that uber (not so much) sword on the ground, and can't pick it up unless you exit the character 
 screen. It's akward at best as is all of the inventories over bloated size.
  
  Game World: Not so bad, a little dark at times, but in general there is enough lush landscape to 
 keep my eyes googling for more. However level design is horrid. When the developer doesn't want 
 you traveling in a certain area, they simply put in a hillside that you can't traverse, or a clump 
 of trees that you can't walk through. It is in this way that Im often felt as I'f im bewing led 
 around by the nose with a carrot dangling out in front of me in the form of my next encounter to 
 try to get better loot.
  
  Quests, some pretty basic stuff here atleast in the beginning. Go fetch me a wheel for my horses 
 carriage but you can't go the main road as there are bandits that will outmatch you and just kill 
 you everytime you try, or how about a lady left in a town that was destroyed, somehow miracously 
 she was spared as was her most annoying child who is now in a cave somewhere (TO THE NORTH) . You 
 walk north but are stopped by that clump of trees.
  
  Last time I checked North was well... North, but in this case it seems I had to wander around to 
 the east and west and somewhat south, before I came upon a cave where this annoying brat was at. 
 He wouldn't even leave the cave until I killed the shaman. Most annoying part of this was that 
 the Shaman and his guards were way over at the other side of the cave and were not even aware that 
 I existed. I could have taken the boy and walked right back out (bad level designer) .
  
  Sound and Music: Not horrible, however I can already feel that I will turn off the music at some 
 point in the near future.
  
  Gameplay: Simple hack n slash, click and hold left mouse button when on enemy to continue hacking 
 away with your sword. But keep your mouse cursor at least somewhat close to your enemy to prevcent 
 stopping the attack. Annoying that there are times that my toon absolutely fails to attack my enemy 
 and I have to keep repositioning my fairy cursor over my enemy and click again. Oft times the enemy 
 has already beaten quarter of my health out of me.
  
  Replayability: ABSOLUTELY A BIG FAT STINKING ZERO replayability. I'll be damned if Im interested 
 in going through all of the same quests over again with the same exact character. I really don't 
 think that the multiple choices of what you are going to be really dictates much difference in 
 gameplay for me. It's still the basic hack and slash that this game is unfortunately made up of.
 
  
  If you can get this one on sale for $9.99 or less then it's going to be worth the trip down memory 
 lane as you fondly remember Diablo II and soon enough exit Legends and reinstall D2 for another 
 go. However anywhere above that 10.00 price point and it's pretty much a wast of money, you may 
 as well just go buy a couple pack of ciggerettes and take up smoking instead.
  
  Game could have seriously needed a map editor like in Titans Quest who still has a huge community 
 of player and map makers behind it even though the developers have long since moved on.
  
  When someone asked on the official forums about a new patch for Legends, one of the moderators 
 basically told him, don't hold your breath, it's not likely at all that there will be another patch 
 for Legends. Sad, they couldn't even get an active community going for the game before it was released 
 and soon enough seem to have abandoned the game after release, seems about normal for the lower 
 end developers that have yet to realize that community is everythig for their reputation and their 
 games reputation.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: asestar
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 28, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  I'll start by saying that this game is underrated. Really underrated if i might be so bold. 
  
  Sure the story is pretty generic "save-the-world" affair, voice-over quality is quite horrific 
 in places and the performance isnt very optimized but its a fun game despite all that. 
  
  Lets start by the technical. Even on my pc which i consider pretty fast rig (19"lcd -  512mb 8800GT, 
 4gb ram, nforce750i, C2D E8500, WinXP SP3) it gets a bit choppy in places. And to actually start 
 the game u have to delete a file in game folder, otherwise it just gives an error about physx. 
 All i can say is that i was not expecting such game to tax my system to point where using AA was 
 making game unplayable. The game launcher has ability to set wallpapers, and there's a few good 
 wallpapers, one with a rather pretty lady ;) 
  
  Presentation: 3/10
  
  
  Graphics are pretty decent. There are lush trees, grass, shiny water and the lot. Shaders are pretty 
 well done. U notice small details as reflective metallic strips on barrels, shine and glow of torches, 
 ground dust and so on. Although the level design is rather uninspired, its never a bother. 
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  
  Audio is mixed bag. While i really like music and most sound effects, 
 dialog is mediocre at best. 
  But atleast they did put dialog in it rather than let you read bunch of text.. so thats commendable.
 
  
  Audio: 6/10
  
  
  Gameplay is fun, fast and quite hectic. Story isnt much to keep u interested but it never really 
 bothers you. What it lacks in motivation, it more than makes up with sheer amount of loot you encounter. 
 Which is a motivation by itself. Its basically diablo 2 in modern coat. 
  
  Gameplay 7/10
  
  
  The interface is something quite interesting. Namely the cursor has gotten 
 special treatment, as it acts as your familiar (a little bright fairy) . She will illuminate the 
 surroundings, click on things and give u feedback when u encounter a higher level gear. She also 
 interacts a lot such as complaining if u pick up too much low-end gear, if your inventory gets 
 full, warn u when you're low on health and so on. Its a really neat touch. Otherwise, the loading 
 is fast and saving is faster. The main hotkey system is bit awkard, as u cant assign direct keys 
 for spells. U can only cast spells/actions with 3 main mouse buttons. So each 'hotkey' just switches 
 which mouse button will do what. I wish it had a normal hotbar with direct access to 1-9 keys.
 
  
  Interface: 7/10
  
  
  Overall this game is fun. Its low budget, but they really put lot of effort into making it. And 
 that should be commended. Too bad the quality control did a bad job and shipped game with a non-starter 
 bug and some horrible performance. It could've been a real gem.
  
  Overall 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chronos_ss2
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 24, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  You set out to find the Hand of God, which is suppose to save the world from being overrun from 
 demons, while doing side quests and such. The game in part is very similar to any other RPG we've 
 played specially Diablo I and Diablo II, specially the skills. You have plenty of skills to choose 
 from and assigned them in what ever order you want to your character as you progress through the 
 game and you gain levels, just as you would in Diiablo I and Diablo II (just as a side note, I the 
 fact that I mention Diablo I and 2 here is just so that if you are reading this you have an idea 
 of how the skills of this game are arranged. This game DOES NOT comes close not even by a millimeter 
 to Diablo I and 2) . There a lot of items through out the game, lots of variety, different weapons 
 with magic attributes which makes it fun to slay monsters with. The story of the game is nothing 
 special, its simple really, you have to retreive the Hand of God and save the world, that's it, 
 although I can't really say much about the story cause I really didn't play the entire game to 
 the end. There are also this rune stones through out the game that lets you teleport between areas 
 that you have already visit them that have them, that way ytou don't have to run all the way back (just 
 like soul reaver or diablo2) . Graphics are ok, but nothing special even with everything in high. 
 Monster variety is good, a good variety, but not as much as you would like it to be.
  
  The Bad:
  moving on to the bad. Good luck trying to get this game to run, I had a lot of problems 
 getting the Physx Software to even start, game tends to just crash for no reason without displaying 
 any messages, it just poofs and your out. If your having problems getting this game to work, you 
 can search the net for answers, you'll be surprise how many people had the same problems, or you 
 can e-mail me :) . Anyways, other than that, the game is nothing you haven't seen before, the characters 
 don't have real drama, there is no spark!. But if you play it, you might like it or you may not, 
 you may be get bored out of your mind lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matteus
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 3:46 am PT
Review:  The games graphics is very nice and the animation
  is smooth and lifelike.
  The sound effects are very good.
  But the fights are repetitive and boring.
  As a player you 
 must follow the roads and paths. As a player you are very controlled and tied up.
  The skill-tree has too few skills to upgrade your character with and is not well balanced.
  Over 
 all the game is unbalanced and if you for example
  plays with a character that is half part Mage and half part warrior all you have to do is upgrade 
 your fireball
  and fire spells and your armour skills in the warrior skill ladder. Buying a lot of healing and 
 Mana flasks you will be able to kill all the monsters in the game with ease.
  A couple of a bit harder monsters can be killed with ease as you can cast fireballs at them on 
 a distance.
  They will not even come at you at all they just stand there and dyes!
  I do not agree with Gamespot of the poor voise acting
  in the game I dont think its that bad. 
 The ferry can be rather funny at times.
  This is a game that the developers has forced through
  and with some more planning and a more 
 thrilling story could have ben so much better.
  If you are planing to buy this type of game
  buy Titan Quest instead! Or reinstall that old masterpiece 
 Diablo II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arisiab
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 20, 2008 3:46 am PT
Review:  i first though that this game would give me a similar experience as tq and diablo did. But once 
 you start the game, the voice acting makes you imideately make you shut down your computer.. The 
 story is uninteresting and the combat isnt very fun, even if you get to cut arms and cut off zombie 
 heads. The sound effects are bad too. The graphics are kinda good, they look kinda like tq's graphics. The 
 game generally doesnt create an atmosphere and it doesnt make you feel tha you are having fun in 
 my opinion. The monsters also are kinda the same as you seen in most fantasy rpgs, goblins skeletons 
 elfs golems and so on .Its just your typical rpg with nothing much too offer but too much to make 
 you remove it from your pc in less than five hours... Please rent it first and dont install the 
 physx because it will srew up the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madbombr
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 19, 2008 9:59 pm PT
Review:  After it took almost 2 hours to get the game running, even with fixes posted on the developers 
 site, I should have known this was not going to end well. Opening video showed promise then it went 
 down hill fast. First thing I noticed was a very bad targeting system, even after clicking on the 
 target you would run past it and have to click again. Graphics looked average, but the main thing 
 in a RPG is a story that pulls you in, and it was not there at least for me. The environments were 
 boring and dry. The level up and point system was almost pointless. If your mouse was too sensitive 
 it became immpossible to change you weapons. On the bright side the inventory system worked well. 
 Bottom line if you want a Diablo fix Go get Diablo 1 or 2 from the bargin bin and play, as for 
 me I'll stick with Neverwinter Night 2 and Guild Wars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neoplastic
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 7:12 am PT
Review:  I'm bored of this game because it does very little to keep you going, the item drops for the heroe 
 in this game leaevs allot more to wish for as well as the story. I would probably have just as 
 much fun playing Tetris.
  
  If they had more time to work on this game or more ambition even I'm sure it would have been a 
 better game than it is today. As it stands now I get the feeling they rushed through development 
 leaving some bugs to go with it just to beat the launch of theupcoming Diablo 3.
  
  When I turn of this game I don't feel like I've accomplished anything. It is less than satisfying 
 to stumble around a game map that looks and feels very repetetive. The layouts are all very basic, 
 I'm not saying basic is bad but this is poorly executed. 
  
  Item drops in the world seems to be made to avoid catering to the player class. I usualyl get anything 
 but what Iw ant for my hero as I play along. I rarely feel the need to exchange my gear, even for 
 so calle drare items.
  
  The interface is decent but has some annoying "features" that just makes the character a little 
 frustrating to controll.
  
  Over all, I would say this game is playable, but mostly a waste of time. So unless you have somethign 
 better to do, by all means play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RanceMiller
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 4:28 am PT
Review:  Although it still suffers some minor bugs, such as a slow mouse and no way I have found to correct 
 it, I found the game very playable and rather enjoyed it. Nope, not as good as Diablo II but a 
 good try, engaging storyline and fair implementation left me satisfied. Being able to pick from 
 2 of 5 classes is a major plus; my character at least felt unique which is a major plus as far 
 as I am concerned. I have played it from several different perspectives, from full melee to full 
 mage and everything in between and enjoyed each game. Like all of Gas Powered Games entrees; it 
 is a solid game well worth the money. You know, getting this damn thing to 800 characters in order 
 to submit is hard, so I have to pad it a trifle, they should really reduce the requirements, they 
 would get more submissions that way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: friskyolive
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 16, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  A good game, if you're into wasting a bit of time, and something you are accustomed to, in terms 
 of hack n slash adventuring, which won't bore you, too much. The storyline is a little weak, though 
 does offer a little twist during the climax of the story. The graphics are good, the replayability 
 is there, with several options to choose from. Is it immersive, and does it offer a compelling 
 reason to try all said dual classes? for sure, though, in the end, it's the same outcome. The sound 
 quality is pretty good, though the voice acting is a little novice/amateur.
  
  I've played a few times, and the end result is to get the game over with, as soon as you start 
 your next dual class and/or next difficulty level. From playing Diablo series and Titan quest (Original 
 and Immortal Throne) I'd have to place it last of the heap, and Titan Quest, first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Decon5
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Now imagine that it's one of those really, really ugly babies that you can't stand to look at, 
 but the parents are so proud of it you at least want to humor them, and before you know it you 
 find the kid kind of cute; that is exactly what Legend - Hand of God is.
  
  The game is fairly straight forward, the story is well... sloppy to say the least. It's very predictable, 
 but then again most of these style games are. It reminded me more of Dungeon Siege then it did 
 Diablo 2, mainly because of how you run around and handle combat. It's no Neverwinter Nights in 
 combat, but you can catch my drift.
  
  Overall, the games fun, but not worth 40 bucks.
  
  Sound: 15/20
  Despite the horrible voice acting, combat sounds, music, etc. is really pleasant 
 and fits the games atmosphere. 
  
  Gameplay: 12/20
  Choppy at some parts, kind of slow at others, the games overall gameplay seems to twiddle down 
 the longer you play, but as soon as you come back to the game after a break, its back to being 
 fun. One cool addition that I liked is the fairy courser, I'll get into that in graphics.
  
  Story: 10/20
  Really? Your home is destroyed? You need to go on an epic journey alone to 
 find something? Where have I heard this before...
  
  Graphics: 14/20
  They humored me. This game didn't come out claiming to have amazing graphics, but they are definitely 
 sub-par to this generation of games. The cursor on the other hand is friggin' sweet. In dark dungeons 
 you often find yourself using your mouse cursor (which is a Light Fairy, kind of like Tinkerbell) 
 to see into dark corners or down blackened hallways.
  
  Controls: 15/20
  Click... kill... click... click... cast a spell. Loot drops... it is like every other hack 'n' 
 slash game in the market. You kill, you loot, you cheer if you find something cool, and then you 
 continue.
  
  Final Verdict: 15/20
  Congratulations to Legend - Hand of God for creating a half decent hold over for everyone anticipating 
 Diablo III. If you liked Dungeon Siege, Diablo 2, and Titan Quest, this game is for you.
  
  If you didn't like those games, why are you reading this review? Go find a game you'll enjoy!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: omega11
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 28, 2008 5:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is basically a Diablo clone with updated graphics. The graphics are very well done with 
 solid lighting and weather effects. I was actually quite impressed with the look and feel of this 
 game. The game play is a simple hack'n'slash action rpg very much like Diablo. You might even think 
 this is a revised version of Diablo. So, if you enjoyed Diablo, you'll enjoy this game. There's 
 a simple storyline that's not worth getting into, but it's not at all bad because there's some 
 seriously comical dialog in this game. Luckily, it's all done in a good way.
  
  The only negative remark that I can give this game is that the graphics engine stutters for a second 
 or two periodically when a new map is being loaded. I'm running this on a relatively high end rig 
 with a GTX 260 and 4 gig of RAM and it gets annoying sometimes, but it doesn't ruin the game for 
 me. I wonder if it's because of Vista? Not sure. It's obviously loading the new maps from the hard 
 drive and it stutters during the load. Other than that, the game has been running rock solid for 
 a about a week for hours with no lockups. Not bad at all.
  
  In conclusion, this is definitely worth a look especially considering the price of admission. I 
 would recommend this to anyone looking for a Diablo clone to hold them off until the release of 
 Diablo 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Son_Jazrin
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  Before I get started, I just have 1 question, does this game really need to have PhysX? IMHO it's 
 just not visually impressive enough to require the extra drivers.
  
  Imagine if you will a darker and boring version of Titan's Quest and you have this waste of time.
 
  
  Music is the one thing that I give credit to in this game, I liked how as you battled more enemies, 
 the music changed and if a boss type enemy was thrown into the mix, it would change even more.
 
  
  There has been quite the uproar on the net with problems this game has with Vista. I too have encountered 
 one problem with the game shutting down for seemingly no reason, after checking on UBI's site and 
 seeing that there is no help available, I decided to take this opportunity and just uninstall it.
 
  
  The only saving grace with this game is that I got it on a "Try it before you buy it" sort of plan. 
 I would've been extremely pissed had I actually bought this piece of trash.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alistervk
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 13, 2008 3:44 am PT
Review:  'Hey, To anyone having the ageia physics driver error crap what you have to do is uninstall the 
 old aegia physics drivers and also you have to manually goto your registry editor and remove the 
 folder Ageia Technologies (just goto the menu at the top and do a search for Ageia and eventually 
 the folder will come up) .
  
  Then after that is deleted just install the new physx drivers system software off of nvidias website. 
 I thinks whats happening is the game wants to see the nvidia drivers (since they own Ageia now) 
 but most ppl still have the Ageia version.
  
  This really isn't that hard to fix. In fact if you never had Physx before now, it would take about 
 5 minutes, which is about the time it would probably take to install the game itself, giving you 
 something to do while you wait.
  
  So after I did that the game runs . You like Diablo / Sacred buy this game . Its not as polished 
 as Diablo 2 but its ok .
  
  Oh yes my mouse moves quite slow and there is no settings to make it go faster ? 
  
  Review 
 4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mazoch
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Like many others, the news of the upcoming Diablo3 have sent me looking for a Diablo fix until 
 the next installment. Initially it looked like Legend might have helped fill the void. I'm sad 
 to say that this is not the case.
  
  The game almost gets it right in a lot of ways but never actually succeed in providing a solid 
 game experience. The problem is every aspect of the game feels buggy, half finished or rushed out 
 the door.
  
  Literally every aspect of the game have details that reeks of bad choices, for example:
  - You 
 cant go back to the main menu from the character selection screen, once you click continue you 
 HAVE to load in a character.
  - The world persists when you make a new character. If you make a new level 1 character and play 
 to level 6 (for example) , you'll need to restart the game if you want to try another type of character. 
 If you don't all the mobs will be missing when you load in. As a result you wont get any xp / loot 
 and well.. there isn't much of a game until you reach the point you level 6 character reached and 
 get killed in one or two shots by mobs much stronger than you.
  - In spite of having a full 3d engine that even sports physics support, it seems that arrows can 
 only be drawn pointing in 9 directions. That usually means that arrows are points in a direction 
 different from the direction they are moving. In addition arrows are fixed to fly slightly above 
 ground level. Fire an arrow from an elevated point and the arrow will follow the contour of the 
 ground instead of flying straight to the target.
  - Combat seems to be a lot more about who hits first than anything. Once you are faced with multiple 
 mobs you are likely to loose simply because your attacks will be constantly interrupted.
  - There is no way to see what skills are offered by the different classes until after you make 
 your selection.
  - It's really hard to tell your characters apart on the selection screen. Since you have no option 
 in naming or changing the appearance of your character they all look alike and carry the same name. 
 The selection screen doesn't even tell you what class the character is.
  
  Those are just the first that springs to mind, the list continues. Bad inventory screen makes it 
 a pain to select and deselect items, bad menu and dialog selection often makes it hard to target 
 options, REALLY bad voice acting. Bad enough that you wish they'd just used onscreen text.. it's 
 really bad, poor sluggish controls.
  
  In a lot of ways it looks like it could have been a good game. Graphics are pretty, fairly customizable 
 character development. However in the end your much better off picking up a copy of Titans Quest 
 if your looking for a solid Diablo like experience while waiting for the king to return for the 
 third time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoltcsas
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 11, 2008 12:58 am PT
Review:  It can seem to be mediocre at first, but the gameplay is fun and the game turns out to be surprisingly 
 good.
  
  I was without expectations when I started to play Legend, I only knew that it is a Diablo-style 
 game. The first few minutes of the game can be frightening, I must admit. The story is boring, 
 the voice-acting is irritating, and the game looks dull. But it isn't. After playing a few hours 
 I found that the game is really good in the sense that it is a very straightforward hack'n slash 
 without trying to be anything more. 
  
  The more I played the more I started to like the game. The "living" cursor seems to be an annoyance 
 first, mostly due to its high-pitched voice, but later in the game, especially in the dungeons 
 or crypts, the living cursor serves as a light source and the whole thing starts to look fantastic 
 as the shadows change while following the little fairy-cursor. 
  
  The graphics of the game seems to be average at first, then, again later in the game, it becomes 
 vivid and full of well-designed little details. The animations of the fighting is again well-done.
 
  
  The skill tree of the character seems to be quite simple and it is, but it serves its purpose really 
 well, I was able to build a character to my liking, and, which is quite a pleasant surprise, the 
 skills my hero learned became very useful in the game.
  
  All in all, Legend isn't a great game, it brings nothing new to the genre, but the gameplay it 
 offers is full of funny moments and due to its nice visuals and well-designed fights it is very 
 enjoyable to play this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shivers_GotGame
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 7, 2008 4:46 am PT
Review:  I have not finished the game but am on my way and have played about 12 hrs of it. I am surprised 
 by this game because it is made from Value Soft and I have been really disappointed with games 
 made by them. I agree that this Genre is a Genre that is almost too easy to create but they did 
 a nice job.
  
  The game play is similar to Diablo but with better graphics. Voice acting is ok and the fighting 
 is typical button mash. I don't think there is much to set this game apart from others of its type 
 but i will say that Coke and Pepsi have not changed the original formula, so why should a game 
 maker? The hack and slash pickup loot works!
  
  Not to go on but I will say that I would recommend this game to anyone wanting something to play 
 until the bigger named games come. the game is fun, engaging and set at 29.99 most places so it 
 is hard not to pass up. If the game was priced anymore higher I would still recommend the game 
 but would say wait till the price comes down or sell old software at GameStop or something to get 
 it but its priced right and plays very well. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shirazy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 4:37 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  Nice Graphics, well designed enemy models (like the Orcs) .
  Good AI, making you feel vulnerable by knocking you off your feet.
  Very good combat system, 
 feels very real ,Unlike other RPS games
  it has good physics of movement .
  Simple GUI, with easy character attributes.
  Smart level designs like checkpoints and routes.
 
  Good idea for the dual talent skill option. 
  Nice Celtic Music.
  
  The Bad:
  Lack of GORE.
  Minor bugs and some DX9 crashes.
  Lots of skills are boring and useless, for 
 instance, making the warrior talent have more special moves and more points per level.
  The variety of weapons and apparel is poor.
  Not enough Secondary quests.
  
  Conclusion:
 
  The game is Fun, Flowing, Dynamic. although It was unexpected , it's a surprisingly refreshing 
 and fun game, Very Recommended to all.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: duckduden
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Best game i have played in ALONG time.
  
  
  
  When i first saw this i thought, "ah well just another diablo rip of" but after playing it for 
 a while i must say that this is the most wonderful/funny Action rpg i have ever played. Yeah sure 
 the voice acting is crap, but have anyone seen a game where every npc+the player has voices. 
 
  
  the pixie pointer is at the beginning but once you begin paying it attention you notice that it 
 really got alot of usefull things to say (like when an amulet drops, wich is so small that you 
 might not see it) Also all the funny comments are a must.
  
  But what in my opinion put the extra fun into the game, is that while having an conversation with 
 a npc you can interupt the npc by pushing waht you are going to say (of course the npc does not 
 react to this, but it makes for some good laughts) .
  
  That the game is so laughable easy to get into and learn just makes everything better.
  
  So 
 in my opinion i must say that this game is, not perfect but a must have. I think people should 
 stop comparing everything to diablo and see what the game actually is instead. What is really so 
 bad in this game compared to diablo? The story? (kill diablo, the end, or in this get the amulet 
 kill deamon and end) The graphics is a great improvement from diablo so stop comparing.
  
  If you diablo fans dont like this then, well GOOD less whiny people in the legend community. So 
 all you who says diablo is better, go and play diablo then!!!!!!??!
  
  Duckdude. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icxarus
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 10:02 pm PT
Review:  Its obviously geared totally and completely towards the consumate hack & slash fan. While this 
 one isn't going to win any awards or set the cash registers ringing it does have a certain appeal 
 to it.
  
  The highs:
  Great graphics and very smooth gameplay! People complaining about choppy gameplay - the problem 
 is with your systems not the game. Character models and detailing also seemed to be quite good. 
 The balrog look-alike demon for instance. Level designs vary from decent to near excellent. Some 
 of the later dungeons are really quite cool.
  Legend HOG also has a number of seemingly minor innovations that really up the enjoyability factor. 
 The mouse pointer being an actual character for starters (not sure if its been done before but 
 never encountered it personally) was very fresh and the fact that it kept speaking to you and dropping 
 hints was new. The lighting effects created inside dungeons as a result of the light-elf (mouse 
 pointer) are also quite nifty. The world is large enough (though sorely lacking in depth ... but 
 more on that later) to immerse yourself in for a day or two mashing your mouse buttons to kingdom 
 come in true Diablo style.
  
  The lows:
  There are many and unfortunately they do detract significantly from what could have otherwise been 
 an excellent game.
  1. Voice-Acting & Dialogue: Absolutely terrible! In fact I think they set record lows in this regard. 
 Really really annoying voices and stupid lines! 
  2. Story & Quests: This story might have worked ten years ago but now its simply a case of been-there-done-that... a 
 thousand times over. It doesn't even pretend to be interesting. Side quests also few and far between. 
 the few that are there suffer from the same problems as the story. The significantly few NPCs and 
 their appalling lack of depth in character actually works against having a large open-ended world.
 
  3. Items & Loot: Don't think the developers spent much time on any of the items. Most of them 
 are crap (many games suffer from this but this was worse than most) . There are barely any special 
 weapons or armor that have the potential to make the player go "Cooool"! One of the best swords 
 I had for the entire game was from one of the earliest quests and for almost the rest of the game 
 I could not find a better weapon to upgrade to! Also all the merchants have the exactly the same 
 inventory and prices. Really takes the joy out of the mercantile aspects of a good RPG. Question 
 to the Game Designers - Is it really too much to ask that human, dwarven & elf merchants stock 
 items of their own race instead of the elf blacksmith (encountered in the last leg of the game) offering 
 to sell you a crappy 'human' axe that you encountered within the first 20 minutes of firing up 
 the game???
  4. Skill Tree: Can't really put my finger on it but something was (yet again) severely lacking. 
 Just didn't have enough good options on it. Not if you wanted any of them to be of use that is. 
 Killing virtually everything there is to kill in the game leaves you roughly around level 35 which 
 means 35 talent points per skill tree. That simply is not enough to max out much more than 2 abilities/spell 
 combinations per skill tree. Example in Path Of Magic, If you want the ice ray to really dish out 
 some serious damage you have to invest 10 points (maximum allowed) in the ice ray (obviously) and 
 a few more to increase its damage quotient. And if you want fireball to go along with that (since 
 you don't want to become over dependant on frost damage) you've pretty much used up all your available 
 points. The meteor storm spell becomes more a case of 'look but don't touch'.
  
  
  Overall: Legend HOG looks like a game that was created released in a rush (who the hell decided 
 the tutorial was expendable?? ... Ten minutes of my life I will never get back!) and secondly built 
 by a team with very (very) disparate skills. Some aspects like basic gameplay, graphics etc are 
 very much up there, while others like story, questing, dialogue etc are amateurish (and occassionally 
 shocking) . You can chalk this one up to the 'Could-have-been-so-much-more' brigade.
  
  If you've run out of games like Oblivion & Never winter nights and are looking for a game to satiate 
 your RPG cravings then definetely give Legend HOG a go. Its worth a play. Just set your expectations 
 to above average.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: profetaxxi
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 5, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  I hear lots of people saying bad things about this game! please until you get it running (past 
 the PhysX issue which really sucks) you will enjoy good hack'n slach action, I love the graphics 
 (especially inside caves and dark ares) I would say this is a good step up form Titan Quest in 
 terms of graphics! Great physics too, when running a lot of times you will kick into bones etc 
 and send them flying away. audio could be better but then again these guys didn't have a budget 
 as big as other hack'n slash titles out there! It deserves respect! and a chance to hit your collection. 
 (again if you're a H'nS fan)
  
  PS. D3 still a long way to come so this is perfect to get into the spirit again!
  
  By the 
 way I'm only 30 minutes into the game and I CAN say that it's worth the money. Go and get yourself 
 a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  The game is an action RPG, and its clear the developers was heavily inspired by Diablo. Many features, 
 like the barrel smashing, is like a carbon copy of Diablo. Even many sound effects are suspiciously 
 similar, you can even wonder if the developers just "borrowed" them from Diablo. This likeness 
 is not a bad thing though, it can shorten the waiting time before Diablo 3 appears.
  
  The story is simple enough, you find yourself unconscious at the beach with a pixie flying around 
 trying to wake you up. You learn your monastery has been attacked, and a demon gate opened. You 
 need to seek out and find the powerful artifact Hand of God to destroy it.
  
  The very same pixie becomes your cursor, lightning up the landscape as you move her around. Giving 
 you more or less useful hints as you proceed into the game, in a dreadful Mickey Mouse voice that 
 pretty much evaporates the atmosphere of the game. In general the voice acting is really poor, 
 in fact they would almost be better off using the text-to-voice narrator in Windows. The other 
 sound is quite good though, like music and general sound effects, so after a while you will forget 
 about it.
  
  At your own convenience you select not one, but two main classes for your character. Specializing 
 in magic, figthing, bow and arrows, healing etc. Each class has its own skill tree where you can 
 distribute skill points earned as you level up. The tree is quite feature rich, and you can customize 
 your characters in many ways adding to the replayability to the game. I chose to play as a mage 
 with healing abilities, and it worked out well. Focusing on fireballs on mana regeneration made 
 my mage very powerful quickly, with the help of a lot of loot that is randomly distributed over 
 the map. The game is quite easy to play, and its just a matter of patience to pass through the 
 story.
  
  As in Diablo there is a rich amount of magic items to be found. You can add rings, amulets, shields 
 etc to your character, boosting your stats in various ways. Some items can only be used by some 
 classes though. One annoyance is you have quite limited storage space for loot, so you need to 
 sell it off frequently. Luckily you can use some special magic transportation stones to quickly 
 teleport to a set of rune stones spread across the country at important locations. So, teleporting 
 back to a merchant to sell of your stuff is a painless effort, although you will spend a hard to 
 find teleporting stone each time so it is wise to minimize this way of traveling.
  
  Fighting is easy and intuitive. You can assign the left, right and middle mousebutton to various 
 spells or actions. Left mousebutton for close combat, right for long range combat like fireball 
 and middle mousebutton for a healing spell for example. This configuration can be changed quickly 
 at any time. I missed the ability to assign shortcut keys to spells though.
  
  The graphics is quite good. You can see the grass wave in the wind or move as you pass through 
 it, and animations are great as well. The monsters are quite varied in looking, and need different 
 tactics for being defeated. The pixie lighting effect looks truly awesome in some places, due to 
 dynamic shadows and rich bumpmapping.
  
  One big drawback is the computer AI. The monsters are unbelievably stupid. You can kill off a guard 
 next to another one with a long range weapon without any reaction from the remaining guard at all. 
 And an encounter by a huge dragon that looks impressive and scary totally ruins the moment when 
 it gets stuck due to poor pathfinding algorithms. Your enemies all behave like dumb cannon fodder 
 just standing in line to be killed. So, after a while it becomes a bit repetitive. But, after all, 
 mass murdering monsters and picking loot is what action RPGs are all about, so I'm not complaining.
 
  
  The story is interesting enough to encourage you to go forward, and there are new monsters and 
 land to be discovered. Finding loot and improving your character is addictive and it is hard to 
 stop playing once you have forgiven the games flaws. Its a pretty short game though without many 
 side quests, and unlike Diablo there are no randomly generated dungeons, so you probably wont replay 
 it for a while after you are done.
  
  All in all, it could have been much better, but as it stands it is an enjoyable and relaxing gaming 
 experience.
  
  Finally a warning about some technical issues. The game crashed on me on a few occasions in 64 
 bit Vista. It is forgivable usually until the first patch arrives, but two times the crash also 
 killed my saved game, forcing me to start all over. This is really annoying, and I wish they had 
 a game save system that was more secure. 
  
  Later I found the issue to be resolved by installing the latest nVidia drivers (177.79) , which 
 are considered to be in a beta state at this point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sysguru
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 3, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  First glace is very diablo to me. Looting chests and killing monsters is just like diablo. The 
 weapons and gold flutter to the ground, I swear it is the same animation but better graphics. I 
 wonder if they took the sounds also. The shamans even raise the goblins from the dead. Graphics 
 are pretty snazzy, game play is pretty neat. I do like the different tree paths, which I am sure 
 was stolen from somewhere else but can't remember (possibly diablo, but it has been a while) . Even 
 the inventory of the items is very diablo. It shows different stats very similar to the old game. 
 I am waiting to hear my character say "I can't carry anymore". Now other then the fact that the 
 look and feel is like diablo, I do think the combat is very nice. It was very easy to figure out. 
 It did take a while to figure out how to equip items on my character, but after trial and error 
 it worked.
  
  This does not deserve an 8 mostly because it is not original enough to get a 10. I gave it an 7 
 only because it did not deserve a 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark-Tool
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 3, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Overall the game is NOT THAT BAD as everyone makes it seem... give it a shot it's definately fun. 
 BUT there are a lot of flaws and bugs. The game does feel un-finished.
  
  I have a pretty nice cpu with a 8800 GTS 640MB vid card and the game runs choppy at points to where 
 it sometimes will freeze for like a second or two.
  
  The game itself has fluid classic hack and slash gameplay... the skills are nothing to get to excited 
 over though I find the skills were just copied from other games and they just made a Generic T 
 chart skill tree.
  
  Boss battles can get tough but also repetitive.. The overall quests are nothing special just the 
 same old thing as most RPGs... go here find this... bring it back or kill these and do this... still 
 overall the quests have been fun so far and it's fun to level my character I'm at lvl 20 right 
 now.
  
  Graphics remind me of titan's quest but a bit better in texture quality, I like how the attacks 
 vary on the creatures though... they'll jump... step to the side... etc to avoid stuff.... sound is 
 dull though voice acting like in most games is horrible and some of the sword/clashing sounds and 
 such are very generic.
  
  Overall it's a mediocre game. But if your like me and can't get enough of the hack-n-slash diablo 
 style games... this for sure is worth a look... I'm enjoying it far more than I did Titan's Quest. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: openedge1
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 3, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  Even though it has all the trappings of a Diablo clone, the game still proves to be fun.
  Visually the game has some little tricks up it's sleeve with HDR and Motion capture animation for 
 attacks.
  Control of your skill trees is on par with Diablo. Before you start playing though you select paths. 
 You either are a warrior, caster, healer, ranger, etc. Then as a bonus you select a second tree 
 (for example I was a Wizard/Healer) , which gave me Fire attacks, yet I could heal myself without 
 the annoying need for potions.
  A really great equipment screen (zooms in to your character and allows you to mouse over various 
 items to check their attributes) .. shows you all the items you equip as well.
  Quests are straight forward and the map is ok, but nothing to write home about.
  I enjoyed the 
 fact that I could control rotation by mouse instead of arrow keys, not unlike WoW or Guild Wars.
 
  
  It is fun and a good interim release until Diablo 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michaelintampa
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Great game seems every one has an opinion. I think the game has great graphics and if you liked 
 diablo you will like this game. Voice overs are not too good sounds like they are reading from 
 a cue card. but does not take away from the game. Do not let the negative opinions of others sway 
 your decision just download the demo and play it for your self. For me it is a GREAT game and fun 
 to play. The camera angle does not bother me it does not take away from the game. I bought this 
 game and if I could do it over I would still by it. Judge for your self Download the demo. Every 
 almost every P. C game that comes are going to need some patching.
  
  There is lots of different types of computers out home grown some not. all kind of different video 
 cards motherboards some and have 2 gigs of ram some have 4 or less than one. It is almost impossible 
 to bring out game today and have it work perfect on every ones P. C. For me I think these guys did 
 a great job. Thank you Value soft and Master Creating for a great game. Do not let the nay sayer 
 get you down. For me you guys did a great job, i can say that so far works perfect on mine. Game 
 looks great runs smooth as butter and is lots of fun. Judge for your self 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asmoddeuss
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Ok , I just got this game , and I must tell the truth , I have read very bad reviews already , 
 but don't listen too much to the people, this game have a lot of fun , and very nice graphics (at 
 all settings high of course) , and instead of doing it cartoon-ish (like wow and diablo3 ) they 
 made the characters with great details and great design , the monsters looks amazing ! If you liked 
 Diablo and Diablo II you should try this one , for sure give it a try ! Of course the game have 
 some minor bugs , but is playable at all . Another impression I had is with the illumination (your 
 mouse cursor is a Fairy and she illuminate your path) they did it awesome and very original ! , 
 at least playing with a high-end PC like the one I have (Intel quad , quad sli , vista x64 etc..) 
 . Also my brother played a bit and he enjoyed as well , and my wife was impressed with the design. 
 As I said give it a try , it worth playing ! . Cheers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wforce
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  I can't understand why it is that the developers seems to always put together all of these horrible 
 games that get you so excited, but come with the big let down. This is another one of those games 
 that just pushes the pc games further into the brink of oblivion. The camera is in need of improvements, 
 the voice overs, and the games needs PATCHES since it seems to be a rushed products and is unfinished. 
 With major patching it could probably be a decent game. I have a very good gaming pc, but the movements 
 is still very choppy, even with me meeting the "recommended requirements.
  
  I can't understand why it is that the developers seems to always put together all of these horrible 
 games that get you so excited, but come with the big let down. This is another one of those games 
 that just pushes the pc games further into the brink of oblivion. The camera is in need of improvements, 
 the voice overs, and the games needs PATCHES since it seems to be a rushed products and is unfinished. 
 With major patching it could probably be a decent game. I have a very good gaming pc, but the movements 
 is still very choppy, even with me meeting the "recommended requirements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: assembel
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 2, 2008 4:03 am PT
Review:  This game is really really bad. I tries to be Diablo in so many ways they even mention Diablo on 
 the official website of L: HoG.
  
  But they fail. They fail so bad it's almost embarrassing. Here are some situations where I just 
 want to throw this game away:
  
  - The voice acting is SO bad. And the writing is even worse. It cannot be described how bad it 
 is. The hero you control has a certain way of speaking the makes him sound like an immature child 
 asking questions?
  
  - The controls. You have 3 mouse buttons to assign spells, walking, melee, melee/walk or camera 
 rotation to. But remember, you cannot walk if you don't use one of them for walking or melee/walk.
 
  It even mentions on the melee (with no walk) that it's good for archers, but if I choose that, 
 I must either use another mouse button for walking or put one of the 10 spell keys (0-9) to switch 
 between melee and walking.
  
  - I played as an archer, but with the camera's short view I was forced the take really small steps 
 ahead. If I just walked to fast I was suddenly right next to an enemy and not in range to shoot 
 arrows.
  
  - I'm running around with my camera rotated so I can see most of my path (meaning I run "up" on 
 the screen) , then I go to my character screen/inventory and I close that again. Now the camera 
 has rotated itself so north is "up". I have gone in the wrong direction so many times because of 
 this.
  
  - If you for example meet a big wolf that you're not completely capable of killing because of your 
 level, then just wait until it begins an animation. You could fx wait until it sits down and howls 
 to shoot it with magic. It will not react before the howl-animation is complete and you could probably 
 have killed it by then.
  
  - Then there is all the small bugs that make you think why they didn't wait with the release until 
 the game was finished.
  Take a look at this giant item I found. I thought I had to be level 10^4 to wear it, but it's simply 
 just a bug:
  http://img209. imagevenue. com/img. php? image=74926_lhogbug_122_173lo. JPG
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
