-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Legends of Might and Magic
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/legendsofmightandmagic/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  6, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.7
Critic Score: 5.7, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 5.6, 52 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 3DO
Genre: Action
Date:     Jun 18, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Ultimately, it's more disappointing than exciting, and not just because it's transparently modeled 
 after a much better game. 

 Dear Counter-Strike players: If you'd please lay down your submachine guns and flashbangs for a 
 moment, the developers of Legends of Might and Magic have a magic wand they'd like to sell you. 
 At least that seems to be the message behind 3DO's new fantasy team combat game, Legends of Might 
 and Magic. With wizards and warriors replacing terrorists and counterterrorists, the game ends 
 up a mediocre muddle rather than the novel game it could have been.           Legends features 
 various characters that are all similar.    

  The gameplay in Legends of Might and Magic should be immediately familiar to shooter fans. This 
 isn't the welcome kind of familiarity, though, but rather the sort that makes you groan, "Don't 
 I already have a better version of this on my hard drive?" Up to 16 players are divided into two 
 teams composed of, unimaginatively, the forces of good and the forces of evil. Each side has three 
 different characters (or character classes) available, including old fantasy standbys, such as 
 paladins and sorceresses. But there aren't enough substantial differences between the characters, 
 since all of them can purchase and use most of the weapons and items. Only a few items are exclusive 
 to specific characters. In fact, the whole character concept feels like an aborted attempt at including 
 role-playing elements in a pure action game. Character classes, whether in a role-playing game 
 or a shooter like Team Fortress Classic, need to have truly distinctive abilities and weaponry 
 to perfectly complement each other and offer a broad variety of playing styles. You won't find 
 that diversity and balance here.   

  Given the enormous popularity of Counter-Strike, the designers of Legends of Might and Magic apparently 
 didn't hesitate to borrow a few pages -- a few chapters, really -- from its game design handbook. Gameplay 
 is divided up into rounds, and at the beginning of each one, you purchase more powerful weapons 
 and armor with the gold you've earned by vanquishing foes. Also like in Counter-Strike, you have 
 the crystal ball equivalent of a radar to track other players. There's even a "ghost" mode for 
 players who are sitting out the rest of a round after being killed,  la Counter-Strike.  
          In one game type, you must rescue a damsel being held hostage.    

  The four game modes won't set the shooter genre on fire with their originality, though they can 
 still be entertaining. The rescue-the-princess mode has the good team trying to rescue the eponymous 
 damsel in distress from the evil team's lair. To rescue her, you aim at her and press the "use" 
 key, and she'll follow you. In other words, it's the hostage rescue mode from Counter-Strike, with 
 a clueless princess replacing the clueless scientists. The warlord-escape mode offers a medieval 
 variation on the hunted mode from Team Fortress Classic and the assassination mode from Counter-Strike. 
 One player takes the role of a warlord who can't purchase equipment and is escorted to safety by 
 one team while the other tries to bushwhack him. In slay-the-dragon mode, both teams race across 
 the map to see who can kill an ornery dragon first, though players usually end up just killing 
 each other. In the sword-in-the-stone mode, the teams try to see who can first yank a mystical 
 sword from a rock and return it to a designated area.   

  When you're out rescuing, slaying, and sword stealing, you'll have an arsenal of "might" and "magic" 
 weapons at your disposal. Might armaments include thrown weapons such as knives, axes, and hammers, 
 as well as three crossbows and three bows. Like in Unreal Tournament, the weapons feature primary 
 and secondary attacks, though most secondary attacks make little if any sense, even in a fantasy 
 setting. The secondary knife attack essentially turns the knife into a landmine. The Gatling crossbow 
 seems like a desperate attempt at putting a machine-gun-like weapon in the game. Just like the 
 Redeemer guided missile in Unreal Tournament, the eye bow lets you look through and guide the projectile 
 on the way to its target. In other words, most of the weapons are just poor fantasy versions of 
 those found in other games, and the great majority of them are ranged weapons. Don't expect many 
 blood-spattered melees.    

 The magic weapons include three rods, three staves, and three wands, though you have to ask, "What's 
 in a name?" They're all just fancy missile weapons in disguise. One fires a magical bolt, another 
 fires a magical beam, and another fires a magical fireball. The three wands offer essentially the 
 same secondary function, a form of clairvoyance that lets you watch enemies from afar. It's as 
 if the designers seemed intent on giving every weapon a secondary mode, even after they ran out 
 of new ideas for them. You can also buy magical one-use scrolls and artifacts, like the overpowered 
 "H. H. G. A." grenade, presumably named after the Holy Hand Grenade of Antioch from  Monty Python 
 and the Holy Grail . The weapons are largely silly and boring to use, which is a fatal flaw in 
 any shooter, particularly an action-oriented one like this in which tactics include little more 
 than jumping to dodge or camping to ambush.           Some of the monsters in Legends may look 
 familiar.    

  If this all sounds like the recipe for a tired, derivative game, it is. Legends of Might and Magic 
 does ship with 20 decent but generally uninspired maps that at least offer solid replay value. 
 You can play offline solo games, though only with a few random monsters that do little but mill 
 around until they spot you. Then, in a display of tactical incompetence, they just charge right 
 at you. That works well in the arcadelike Serious Sam, in which hordes of monsters are constantly 
 rushing you, but here, it's just weak. Furthermore, graphical clipping problems mean that you can 
 sometimes spot parts of monsters through walls, which doesn't exactly add to the suspense, and 
 they can actually kill you this way, too.   

  The heart of the game is really the online team play, which happily offers more excitement than 
 the offline play. It can be entertaining in short spurts, but it ultimately sags under the weight 
 of unimaginative and overly simplistic gameplay. Thanks to inadequately balanced weapons, armor, 
 and character speed, combat lacks the visceral kick of a game like Quake III Arena, the enjoyably 
 deliberate pace of Tribes 2, or the superb balance between tension-filled stalking and brutal gun 
 battles found in Counter-Strike.           You'll wield various remakes of conventional shooter 
 weapons.    

  A modified version of the LithTech game engine, most notably featured in the superb No One Lives 
 Forever, at least ensures visuals with lots of rich, vibrant colors -- at least on those maps that 
 aren't so dark as to be nearly unplayable. The game offers no gamma/brightness settings to correct 
 this, either. Lighting effects, such as magic wand blasts and flickering torches, offer some vivid 
 displays, and some nice scenic touches, like cattle in a town barn, add a sense of place. The weapon 
 models are bland, though, and the characters look amateurish, with disproportional limbs and distorted 
 faces. They're poorly animated, too -- they seem to alternately float or jerk across the ground without 
 ever really coming in contact with it. Some monsters, like the wight, are genuinely spooky when 
 they first charge toward you in the dark, but that's more from the surprise factor than any stunning 
 graphical achievement. Like the graphics, the soundtrack and 3D sound get the job done, but not 
 with any zest or imagination.   

  If mediocrity and complacency were crimes, Legends of Might and Magic would get tossed in the dungeon. 
 Despite its many blemishes, it's not a bad game overall and can be entertaining for short periods 
 of time. Ultimately, though, it's more disappointing than exciting, and not just because it's transparently 
 modeled after a much better game. It's also an opportunity wasted: With so many excellent science-fiction, 
 counterterrorist, and military shooters available, an imaginative, high-quality fantasy shooter 
 would be a welcome addition to the genre. Unfortunately, Legends of Might and Magic isn't that 
 shooter. The characters and weapons all lazily merge together in a disjointed game design. That 
 is, when a fantasy game's sorceress is ultimately little different from an archer or warrior, you 
 know there's a problem. The paper-thin swords-and-sorcery backdrop isn't used to any real effect 
 either, nor is the Might and Magic license itself. Ultimately, Legends of Might and Magic mightily 
 lacks the magic that turns middling games into great ones.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: malavos
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  3DO carried always the big name of Heroes of Might and magic (specially the III) . So, as always, 
 the company tries to get better games and of course, make more money. But, when you fail to do 
 this. You get your end. 3DO made a mistake in Legends. This game is really looking cool, nice and 
 soft. But when you play. You get so bored. There's classes, and they're all similiar. The weapons...... 
 some of then are just too $$$. The game is unbalanced. Creeps can easily kill you. The graphics... 
 wow. They're nice. But.. they lost the most important: The ... "thing" the.... "point" that maked 
 the "might and magic" "heroes" and "cruzadersgreat games. They losed something. Maybe they we're 
 thinking too much in money, who knows. They paid their price.
  
  Graphics: 9,7 - They pwnsome.
  Sounds : 4 - So boring, no emoction.
  Musics : 7 - the musics 
 (as always ) are great. But there is not too many.
  Fun playing: 3 - You can play like 30 minutes..... and then you will get bored.
  Evolution comparing 
 to others 3DO games : -10. They din't evolved. They ... bah, they forgot how to make a game.
  Others:
  
  Support: 10 - as always, i see some support in game.
  Weapons and story : 9 for 
 weapons - 2 to story. There is no story XD
  Enemies: 100000 - wow. THink about it. Heroes III monsters in this game.... like the titan. Cool 
 um?
  
  Overral: 6,5 - It's a beautifull flesh, with poor inside. But the idea is the best possible...
 
  
  3DO. You WAS a great company. ( but i still LOVE and PLAY heroes III) XD
  
  o/
  
  cya. Comments? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jan 17, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  Its a shame they used this game in part of the Might &amp; Magic franchise. Shareware games released 
 years before look better than this graphically. Is just wrong to release a game to bring up the 
 company bottom line.
  For an action game, there is not too much action to look forward to.
  The multi player option is one of the few bright spots for this game. There was very little or 
 no lag when I tried this game between friends. But only after an hour we all got bored and loaded 
 up other games.
  Only if youre a collector or all games or even only Might &amp; Magic Series then by all means 
 buy this game otherwise there are better games of this type that came out around the same time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxmaster223
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 19, 2005 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Legends of might and magic is just like counterstrike except it is medeival. 
  
  Gameplay: the gameplay is great because you have a variety of weapons and people. Some maps you 
 have to rescue a princess or other its a sword in the stone. Otherwise the online play is excellent. 
 You can host your own game so your friends can join, also you can mod your server. You have a chocie 
 of 3 people on the good team and 3 on evil.
  
  Graphics: The graphics arent too good. 3do didnt put to much effort in the graphics.
  
  Sound: 
 the sound is just ok, but their is no music at all.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
