-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Legendary
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/legendarythebox/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Agile werewolves throw crates at you.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Ugly.
 Story doesn't make any sense.
 Poor level design brimming with cliches.
 It's easy to get hung up in the tight, cluttered environments.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 24, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.5
Critic Score: 4.8, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 5.2, 455 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Gamecock Media Group
Developer: Spark Unlimited
Genre: Fantasy First-Person...
Date:     Nov 18, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This frustratingly bad shooter is not the stuff legends are made of. 

  When a first-person shooter bungles moving and shooting, what does that leave room for? Great reloading? 
 A potent save system? Awesome menus? Legendary is not a good game, nor is it a so-bad-it's-good 
 one. Its premise is sound enough: let loose a myriad of mythical brutes into our modern-day world 
 and throw in a diabolical tyrant intent on ruling the Earth. You at least have potential for a 
 fun camp classic in the  Clash of the Titans  mold, but instead of delivering anachronistic thrills, 
 Legendary piles poor gameplay mechanics onto overused shooter cliches, drying up all the juicy 
 possibilities and leaving a dull, lifeless husk in its wake.  

           If there's one thing  Raiders of the Lost Ark  should have taught us, it's that you don't 
 open ancient boxes.      

  If you want to get the most out of Legendary's story, it's best not to think too hard; it's pure 
 frivolity. As professional art thief Jack Deckard, you're hired to steal the mythical Pandora's 
 Box from a New York City museum. But, as an entry on Murphy's Law in Jack's own PDA reminds us, 
 what can go wrong will go wrong. Soon enough, griffons clog the skies and a gigantic golem constructed 
 of cars and concrete is terrorizing a panicked public. Meanwhile, the incident brands a mysterious 
 signet on Deckard's arm, which lets him absorb the life energy, or animus, from fallen creatures. 
 The next step is obvious: discover the truth behind his employer and kill some werewolves and minotaurs 
 in the process. The concept has potential, but the story is insipid and doesn't always make a whole 
 lot of sense. Why would Pandora's Box unleash such a limited collection of creatures? Why are the 
 subways still running when the city is under siege by winged beasts? How does a mercenary, in one 
 of many scenes featuring Legendary's cringe-inducing dialogue, forget that he's looking for a minotaur? 

  But coherence doesn't matter when the whole thing's just an excuse to grab a few guns and take 
 aim at the nefarious beasties. To developer Spark's credit, a few of your mythological encounters 
 are (mildly) fun, such as a boss fight versus a gigantic kraken that feels appropriately epic. 
 Even some of the regular enemies have a strong concept behind them: werewolves lithely jump from 
 wall to wall, and the ghostly Nari can possess inanimate objects and use them as weapons (for example, 
 a Nari uses a soda machine as a weapon during one of Legendary's more hysterical encounters) . Some 
 of the ensuing battles are legitimately fun; this is particularly true when werewolves are involved 
 because their behavior is so unpredictable. In another interesting scenario, a Nari steals a handle 
 from the wall just as you are about to turn it, forcing you to go retrieve it. Unfortunately, most 
 of these scripted scenes are simply annoying, and every battle -- the passable and the abysmal -- are 
 absolutely littered with design elements so atrocious, it's amazing that they could have made their 
 way into a modern-day shooter.  

  The problems start with simply moving from one place to the next. Deckard can hop only a few inches 
 off the ground, yet when sprinting, he leaps forward as though he's competing in the long jump. 
 With such terrible jumping mechanics, it's a wonder that Legendary would even include platforming 
 sequences, let alone the awful one thrown at you early on in the game. Should you even find a spot 
 you think Deckard can easily hurdle, you'll discover countless invisible walls, or even worse, 
 you'll get stuck on the various objects littering the cramped levels. The ease with which you can 
 get hung up on the environment is rather astounding, and it's a big frustration in such battles 
 as one in which you fight off a minotaur in a crumbling graveyard. Fortunately, the oversensitive 
 mouselook makes turning a snap, so you probably won't find Legendary to be much of a challenge 
 in spite of these poor basic mechanics.  

  Legendary's poor level design isn't just highly claustrophobic, but also overflowing with ridiculous 
 cliches. For a good half of the experience, your objectives consist of going someplace (like the 
 ever-popular sewer) to turn a handle so that you can go some other place (like the ever-popular 
 warehouse) to open a door. Every closed door in the game that you can open is controlled by a security 
 panel, and opening it is as simple as touching two wires. To do so, you dutifully hold a key down 
 for six seconds or so; you don't need to enter a code, find a keycard, or perform a minigame. Why 
 not just let the player open the door without the unnecessary padding? As for the handle-turning 
 and lever-pulling tasks, even other shooters lend these mechanics some type of puzzle elements. 
 Unless you count the few occasions where you glimpse a green-glowing object above or below you 
 (hint: shoot it) , there's nothing thoughtful about Legendary's non-puzzles.  

  At least the weapons work, but even here, it's flabbergasting that so many basic flaws are held 
 up for display. It's really cool that you have to lop off a werewolf's head to kill it lest its 
 lifeless body reanimates a moment later. Why, then, do you have to pound on its head and neck area 
 with your axe countless times before you hit the magic spot? You can use a ranged weapon for this 
 task with far better results, making Legendary the only game on Earth where a flamethrower is a 
 more effective instrument of decapitation than a fire axe. Nor are the guns very satisfying to 
 shoot: there is little visual feedback indicating damage to many enemies and the sounds of gunfire 
 are weak, making for firefights with very little oomph.  

  Legendary's sole spark of originality comes from the life force known as animus, which leaks from 
 fallen creatures. Deckard slurps it up with his signet and uses it to power various objects, as 
 well as to heal himself. He also uses it to let loose brief blasts of energy, which makes ghostly 
 enemies corporeal and knocks some foes back. This comes into play a few times during the single-player 
 campaign, such as an infuriating sequence in which you have to power up a device that the fluttering 
 Naris keep picking up and moving around. Its use in the game's single multiplayer mode is more 
 interesting. Here, two teams of four must kill werewolves, collect their animus, and use it to 
 charge up generators back at the team's base. Again, there was potential here, but all of the problems 
 of the single-player campaign are out in force, ensuring that the game's almost nonexistent online 
 community will soon disappear entirely.  

            Rats: The Musical  sounds like a more entertaining experience than playing Legendary. 

  Aside from a few set-piece moments, such as the sight of the impressively towering golem looming 
 above you, it's hard to look at Legendary. The heavily pixelated prerendered cinematics are particularly 
 atrocious, though the real-time scenes aren't much of an improvement. Human character models stare 
 blankly ahead and look like porcelain dolls, the geometry count is low, and the overall art design 
 is dull and muddy. Nothing looks crisp or detailed, and some visual peculiarities, such as the 
 way rubbery werewolf corpses get stuck in the geometry and jitter around, may induce a few laughs. 
 You also might giggle when you shoot at a window and hear the sound of glass breaking yet not actually 
 break any glass. That isn't to say that Legendary's audio is terrible; it has a few bright spots, 
 such as the eerie effect you hear when sucking up animus. The best thing that can be said about 
 the rest of the sound design, from the generic rock soundtrack to the mediocre voice acting, is 
 that it isn't particularly offensive.  

  Perhaps the game's most fascinating aspect is that it prepares you for a sequel, which in this 
 case is less of a tantalizing tease than it is a full-on threat. Not that the  idea  of Legendary 
 is bad, but all that potential has been wasted in a shooter that isn't pleasant to look at and 
 isn't fun to play.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (20 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: deepseadeepsea
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2009 9:14 am PT
Review:  3.5 is not fair for this game! 7.5-8.5 is a true score for this game!
  This game is very cool, very nice graphic and physics because it use Unreal 3 engine, no bug or 
 crash when i was playing this game, gameplay is very fun and fast action will make you feel great!
 
  A lot of weapons you can choose in this game, the mosters have a good A. I, they run very fast 
 and will kill you if you dont care!
  The boss's battle is very cool, huge boss!
  The story of this game is fine.
  The game's sound is good.
  The physic is very good, you can 
 see the moster destroy everything in this game: wall, door, building,...
  Your hero has a spelling hand, it can restore your health or push a moster, i think it is from 
 Biosock game!
  So dont care about gamespot's score! Play this game if you are a fan of FPS game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaden_Arbiter
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 7, 2009 11:03 am PT
Review:  Legendary takes place in a post-desolate version of New York in which you are in control of a 'professional' 
 thief by the name of Charles Deckard who had been the direct source of what had re-conditioned 
 the state. Charles is not the most appealing candidate, however, as he, for no explicit reason, 
 never speaks to anyone and doesn't denote a personality any different than a mime.
  
  The storyline of Legendary bases you against a typical enemy who ideally plans on controlling the 
 planet with mythological beasts that release from a once-sealed container known as Pandora's Box, 
 the plot element Deckard interacted with that caused New York's desolation at the beginning of 
 the game.
  
  First of all and foremost, Legendary suffers from a very serious problem, and that problem is defined 
 as its retro gameplay engine only seen from titles released in the 20th century; for example, two 
 players facing one another who shift right to left simultaneously will never be able to shoot each 
 other with their weapons without the reliance on blind luck. But it is Spark Unlimited, the creators 
 of the notorious Fall of Liberty -- mind the sarcism. Fortunately for Legendary they have pre-rendered 
 real-time cinematic scenes take place around you which are exceptionally creative, such as cars 
 that were momentarily parked on a street suddenly merge with one another to form a large golem-like 
 abomination.
  
  But we all know an ounce of creativity cannot be enough alone to catch the eyes of prospective 
 consumers when it is the only positive that can be offered, therefore Legendary is a perfect rent 
 for those who want to experience it but don't want to use up more money than what is actually worth. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jslange
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 10:04 pm PT
Review:  This is a "traditional" FPS. It plays well and is fun. The graphics are decent and the check point 
 save system is fine. I had no trouble loading the game and I did not have any glitches playing 
 it. 
  I think GAMESPOT and others have lost site of how to score a "traditional" FPS games. Why degrade 
 a game because it is linear? Or because it lacks RPG elements? I like to get in a game and start 
 shooting right away. I want to know where the next battle is. I don't want to spend my time getting 
 lost or building up a character in EVERY FPS game I play. This game was well made and plays smoothly 
 and it is a shame the scores it has been given because it lacks new or current hot gimmicks that 
 SOME people seek. This isn't the only traditional FPS that has been scored poorly by Gamespot. 
 FEAR 2 and FEAR Perseus Mandate come to mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ping5000
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 9, 2009 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Here's the deal with Legendary: I got this game for free many moons and months ago and then simply 
 forgot I had this game. This game was so rote and so boring, that I quite literally forgot that 
 I owned this jumble of code. Legendary is not particularly bad  it's just insanely boring. It's 
 hard to recall anything that happens in this game, because it's so forgettable. Really, if there 
 is one thing I will remember, it's that Legendary is arguably the most boring game I have ever 
 played.
  
  So, you're a mute thief by the name of Deckard and you're asked by a mysterious and clandestine 
 group called the Black Order to steal Pandora's Box. Thanks to your awesome thief skills (elbowing 
 security panels and then attaching two detached wires together, which are detached when you first 
 bust them open for some reason) , you gain access to the box. Deckard follows the visual instructions 
 on the box, for reasons completely unknown, which leads to his hand getting punctured by a knife. 
 He then winds up getting powers and stuff. He also unleashes griffons and minotaurs upon New York. 
 Go him.
  
  The first few minutes of Legendary are asinine, inane and very dumb. It doesn't make sense and 
 goes against all degrees of common sense. A few minutes later and Legendary starts to show shreds 
 of promise. The mass panic that ensues in the streets of New York looks incredible. Hundreds of 
 cars are abandoned, hundreds of people are running for their lives and griffons reign down from 
 the charred sky, tossing vehicles and munching on unlucky souls.
  
  And then, for the better half of the game, you're tossed down into sewers and subway tunnels, keeping 
 you away from witnessing cataclysmic, catastrophic and most importantly, cool things. Instead, 
 you're tossed down into corridors, condemned to shooting things that are uninteresting to shoot 
 at, with a plot that consistently does a great job of getting in the way and souring the game. 
 Plot holes are immense in scale and plenty; why is it that the only two military organizations 
 are third-party mercenaries? Where are the marines? Army? Navy? How come Deckard never speaks his 
 mind, even though he writes every little detail on his PDA? Give me anything, please.
  
  Yeah, the story blows, but at least I remembered how bad it was. Once I was given a gun and given 
 things to shoot, it immediately became forgettable. There is absolutely nothing about the shooting 
 that was particularly bad, fun, decent, horrible, unbearable, good and so on. I kept shooting something 
 until it died. I might have tossed a grenade. I don't know. All of the firefights just lumped themselves 
 into a pile of mush in my brain. You'd think that a game with minotaurs and werewolves would result 
 in a game that's more than just functional.
  
  Every once in awhile, there's the arbitrary puzzle. Twist a valve here, push this button here or 
 elbow some security panels there. They do nothing more than act as an intermission between the 
 shooting. Really, they're just that  intermissions. They're insultingly simple and lack any kind 
 of creativity. They're just more boring things on top of a pile of boring things.
  
  This boring, tedious quality also extends to the game's presentation. Graphically, Legendary looks 
 decent. It runs on the Unreal 3.0 engine and that's quite evident  everything's awfully gray or 
 brown and there's a lot shiny stuff going on. The monsters are definitely the highlight; they animate 
 well and they look damned and ferocious. The game doesn't really push the engine, nor does it do 
 a disservice to it. The same can be said of the audio. The music's direction is interesting. Instead 
 of what you'd expect  a blaring orchestra, an epic chorus  it's more low-key and the developers 
 opted for something along rock and light metal. It's pretty good and a decent listen if you're 
 looking for some understated background music while going about your day. Voice-acting ranges from 
 good to hilarious and the weapon sounds range from punchy to puny. As a whole, the game's soundscape 
 is inconsistent and ultimately average.
  
  There is a multi-player mode, but I have yet to play it, because no one's on. Seriously. So, really, 
 what you're getting is a single-player game that's 10 hours long that is approximately 8 hours 
 too long. If I was forced to choose between Legendary and a bad game, I wouldn't know what I'd 
 go with. On one hand, a bad game will at least provide me with something to remember, while Legendary 
 is just so boring that it completely disappears as an existing product. Whatever the case, just 
 forget about this game. I know I did and I didn't even need to do anything. That's nice, I guess. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dennylson
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 4:17 pm PT
Review:  I tracked this game for several months before it's release and when I got my hands on the PC version 
 as a gift for Christmas, I was quite excited to get on with playing it. Unfortunately, I have been 
 let down! The game lacks any real new ideas, game-play is very linear and the graphics are outdated. 
 However, I did enjoy the experience to a moderate degree as I did find the story quite fun to discover.
 
  
  The game's opening is probably one of two great parts of the game. You open Pandora's Box and all 
 hell breaks loose in NYC. You have to escape the museum and then run through the streets to safety 
 while buildings crumble all around you. I liked this intense introduction and was expecting to 
 play a pretty good game but it is just too easy. The game holds your hand all the way through and 
 areas that are not on your goal route are blocked off by the infamous invisible wall making it 
 very simple for you.
  
  The second part of the game that I really liked was the Kraken battle at Westminster Abbey in London. 
 Seeing the clock tower that houses the Big Ben bell get pulled down by a giant tentacle was a great 
 touch that I liked since I am a Londoner myself. The rest of the game fills in with dull trips 
 through subways, churches, sewers, more sewers and errr.... oh yeah SEWERS! The 'animus' idea seems 
 like a concept taken from Painkiller where you were able to absorb the souls of your beaten foes 
 and use them to your advantage. As for the ending, well I won't go there!
  
  Despite the bad things in this game, it does try to redeem itself with its creatures. The werewolves 
 look great but after a while, you will get bored of decapitating them repeatedly. The griffins 
 and minotaurs are also good additions to the game but it's not enough to save it.
  
  As for multiplayer, it's quite good if you can find someone to play with! Not many people seem 
 to want to play it and I know exactly why!
  
  Essentially, Legendary is a run-and-gun FPS where you pretty much have nothing much else to do 
 other than shoot enemies and solve the odd simple puzzles. This idea works if it's done right (Serous 
 Sam and Painkiller) but if it is not, then it becomes a bit of a failure and I'm afraid Legendary 
 is pretty much that, although not entirely. If I were you, choose another game because there are 
 many great titles out there much better than this mediocre one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RYPER
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 12:03 pm PT
Review:  First off, the technical problems in this game make it unplayable at some points. For instance, 
 when you take the elevator to get to the last checkpoint, you fall through the magically enchanted 
 floor into the gray and pixelated abyss. Another one is when you have to make your way through 
 the weightless and square New York taxies carried by Griffins, they will suddenly and for no reason 
 jump up into the air and land on you. The funny part is your o. k. and the car has no scratches 
 on it.
  
  The Good Stuff
  *The werewolf is a pretty fun enemy to fight with.
  *The soundtrack is good, even if its only like 3 songs.
  *The animus is a good idea, but poorly 
 executed.
  
  The Bad Stuff
  *Graphics are dark, shadowy, and bugged.
  *Hundreds of technical issues (I counted them all)
  *Sound editing is poor.
  *The AI is bugged, 
 especially the human one.
  *It takes a long time to install and uninstall.
  *No multilayer.
  *Bad and hard to follow story.
  
  So, there you have it. A legend. A masterpiece. 
 We are going to look back at this game and say. "You know, I miss LMAO at how stupid the AI is 
 and how the Griffins kill everything... good times"
  
  "Every statement in this review is based on personal experience. I do this so you don't have to, 
 do not try this at home ( playing Legendary :P) "
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aholovsky
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 12:36 am PT
Review:  Yes it has some (maybe lot of) bad things (or features if yo want) like:
  - it is quite short (imho)
  - weapon switching is not as intuitive as in almost all other shooters 
 (as a matter of fact i found it the most frustrating thing in the game, but this can be discutable)
 
  - some fights could be frustrating for a while (at least up to a moment when you find the right 
 strategy for the opponent)
  - the perpetual short-circuiting the door panels is very bothersome
  - there is no puzzle or 
 at least a place where you have to think a bit to can continue (just look around and shoot or use 
 the green glowing object and it is done - ... sorry there is one exception with the barrels at 
 the elevator you have to shoot through to lift the elevator and the barrels don't glow)
  
  ... but after all this i found the game good playable, funny; i think it has not as horrible graphics 
 as many reviews say; it has a bit of story which promises (let's hope better) interesting sequel; 
 Just play it or at least try it and then make your own opinion - it's always better (but for some 
 people much inconvenient) than just judge it without trying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stantheman12345
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 9:49 am PT
Review:  Legendary not that bad but a couple things they should have done or put in
  
  i just finished legendarys single player and have no intention of doing multiplayer so i cant rate 
 it.
  
  legendary was really neat it looked epic but it lacked alot of creatures come on only 7-9 creatures (not 
 including golem or kraken) 
  
  the combat was quick, intense (at some times) and pretty repetitive
  
  the voice acting was 
 dry but i have heard worse 
  
  the story was pretty straightforward 
  
  the game was wayyyy too short if it was longer it would have been more fun because i liked this 
 game with its flaws.
  
  the gfxs were great for me but i don't care so much on if the game looks nice more along is it 
 playable 
  
  the ending of the game a little anti-climactic if you ask me seems to me they leave room for a 
 sequel their are 2 "epic" battles in the game where you have to kill a giant kraken it was cool 
 to see it whip around and kill a huge golem made of rubble nice to see it destroy alot of the world.
 
  
  i loved the game but to see it end so badly and to see it so short was very disappointing to me 
 i loved going in a door and see a huge griffin crash through the side of the building i would rate 
 this 
  
  5/10 (based on the singleplayer)
  
  
  -Tech Savvy Stan
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: anikiwave
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Legendary stands for its own "uniqueness", although its this major factor that ruins the game for 
 most players
  Legendary features a simple, shallow gameplay and simple environmental interaction, The story of 
 the game its simple to describe but it may be hard to understand for most gamers [ apparently ] ; 
 The Level design its simple, allowing You to see a post apocalyptic scenario almost every time; 
 The game, may be powered by the Unreal Engine 3.0, but the Graphics are in no ways innovative in 
 many cases its often to see Busted and Dated Graphics; The Main plot is poor [despites the great 
 story idea] ; The sound also has its weakness, Like I said The Main Plot is poor just like some 
 Voice acting, But The musical score is a great achievement, and it will be like "the sound of fairies" 
 for rock\metal fans
  
  To be honest, Legendary is a Great game that will appeal more to the gamer that seeks a good story 
 and post apocalyptic environments, But its not indicated for hardcore gamers, mostly because its 
 more a causal game and compare It with another game its just pure "stupidity", like I said before 
 Legendary stands for its own "uniqueness", and its this "uniqueness" that will attract gamers and 
 will "Chuuu" other's
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaliantHero
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  This game deserves a better score seriously gamers this game merits a 8 or 9. Why check my scores 
 on all parts:
  
  Story 7 i gave it that score because it shows how someone can be on his own even in hard times 
 
  Graphics 8 well they look really good in my opinion i liked the cut scenes a lot 
  Sound 8 the guns for me sounded different and that voice that comes when you collect power sends 
 shivers up my spine
  Game play 8.5 the aiming was a little of but other than that i don't have anymore comments 
  
 Enjoyment 9 i liked the game kinda short for but other than that it was very fun to play
  
  That's my scores so please don't say bad things to me this are my opinions okay. I say this because 
 a lot of people are known for saying bad things because they can get it through they're thick skulls 
 that all people have different opinions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D_TR1X
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 18, 2008 4:26 am PT
Review:  A very cliche game with no originality, buggy gameplay, stupid AI enemies and no story.......... there 
 are games now and then which make it or break it.... this one certainly didn't make it. The graphics 
 are good but nothing special but quite buggy, at times i felt it was a rip-off from BioShock (because 
 of the left hand) . This games name hasn't done it any favour as it is not Legendary at all. I got 
 into a loop of killing those fiery froggy creatures in th first level itself........ which speaks 
 about the AI programming. Then this game is a FPS, a genre which has Crysis, COD4, BioShock to 
 name a few...... all these games have their own uniqueness but this game is just another clone. 
 The developers should have thought of a better storyline which would made the players more addicted 
 to this game, this game lacked a storyline. Bottom line is ,there was hard work put into this game 
 but the developers should have combined a good story with better gameplay to give games like Crysis 
 and BioShock a run for their money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bastardite
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 2:10 am PT
Review:  I have seen it on a pc running on lower than full graphics, in that case its nowhere near as good, 
 but mine does full, and i say EPIC.
  if youre a 'security blanket' gamer you wont enjoy this because its too different, so i suppose 
 its like marmite, youll love it or hate it. Pretty much the whole first level (more like area) 
 is one large interactive opening sequence which is a great way to introduce you to the insanity 
 that is legendary. It is a bit easy to regain health, however its also easy to get distracted/careless 
 with regenerating and splattered. As for the storyline, i dont see how it could be made to make 
 alot of sense without detracting from the storyline, random hoards of monsters trying to EAT YOURE 
 FACE, what more do you want? i know exactly what is wanted, an axe... combined with the ability 
 to decaputae werewolves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ficha13
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Wow, gamespot scored this game too low. I mean 3.5 WTF!?
  Like first the graphics are solid and at moments looks GREAT. The weapons are quite good, and they're 
 fun to use to. The creatures in the game are SUPER! My favourite ones are the werewolfs. They can 
 jump over stuff climb over walls, and follow you wherever you go, example: Im in a warehouse on 
 the 2 floor and i see one down going trough the cargo , then it see's me and start's climbing up. 
 I'm guessing it probably won't even come upstairs. WRONG! I go into the next room and he jumps through 
 the window and scares the **** out of me. well enough of that. Gameplay: fun shooting monsters, but 
 people are stupid but still fun to shoot them too.
  Sound&Music: great sounds of weapons and monsters and very cool music (actually the music is the 
 best thing in game) , solid gme voices but could have been better. Story: great story with a twist 
 at the end, and by that i mean To be continued... Overall: Great and original game. Stands out of 
 the crowd of the typical fps games :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: predatorGS
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 1, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  A very small review (if you can call it a review ;-) , from a die-hard FPS lover
  
  I bought the game. A few days later the GS-review came. (that rhymes)
  The score is just too 
 low! Alright the graphic aren't next-gen, but they are not that bad. The storyline is a little 
 weak, short and clich, but the gameplay is fun!
  Walking through the devastated cities is cool, the monsters are cool, even the few weapons. Human 
 enemies are a little stupid (bad AI) and the creatures are, well,... stupid! That and the storyline 
 are the only bad things I could find. However the game is just plain fun, think of it as a cheap 
 painkiller ripoff.
  
  Give this game a change, but I would advice to rent the game (if possible) , paying the full price 
 isn't worth it.
  
  These words are just to make the hundred words barrier or the eight hundred characters barrier. 
 and all these words too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmyboy13
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 30, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  I had been following this game for a few months, thought it looked cool, a nice break from the 
 usual. Even when i had found out that it got an abysmal score on all review websites, i still thought 
 it would be worth a rent, believing that it maybe just too different. I was horribly wrong. This 
 game is terrible. Not even worth a one day rental. Thats how long i had it, actually. It uses the 
 well renowned unreal 3 engine. and butchers it more then any i have seen before.
  
  It feels old, like a generation old, and plays like that too, nothing spicey or new or inovative 
 in this game, it is rushed and not properly made, the AI is under average, and glitches out a good 
 50% of the time. ill keep it short. Do not rent or play this game. I know its hard to make video 
 games, and I never hate on a company or maker, I merely am trying to save someone some time and 
 money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silvanetto
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 28, 2008 6:09 am PT
Review:  It's a complete waste of time! It's like playing an old game in a mutiplecore processor era. The 
 game play is bad and the worst first person shooting game ever to come out in years. The story 
 backdrop is nice about the Pandora's Box but the introduction of it to the story has been a letdown. 
 The game immediately jumps you into an area where you would steal the Pandora's Box with no knowledge. 
 The graphics are bad considering its requirement. Even in full settings the graphics are still 
 bad and feels like playing an old game. The developer of the game certainly made it quick and for 
 quick bucks. The ad and the cover look way better than the game and I wish that the game stuck 
 to its artwork instead of the game play. All Look No Content!
  Totally Not Recommendable! Doesn't Deserve the rating it got from Game Spot! A 2 suited it better 
 because of the money you will waste on it! 
  Silvanetto 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reiko777
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 23, 2008 10:35 pm PT
Review:  I think the game is boring when i start playing it. But i take me 1 hour of play to look a this 
 game from other side. Its starting to be interesting after first level, when all you do is sit 
 in sewers and metro stations. I agree the graphics is not to cool, but game play is interesting.
 
  I you ask me, i say game is worth of playing. Its reminded me of game called Black site area 51. 
 Not so good graphics and terrible in first level. But when you start playing its getting better 
 and better.
  
  Game is really short, i needed only 4 hours to finish it. And that's how this game is not getting 
 annoying. And story line is good to, not super, but still good.
  
  And weapons, finally there is no futuristic weapons, but old same our age machine guns and assault 
 rifles. I think the game is worth to play, but only for those who really liked Black site area 
 51. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ubiquidade
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2008 4:39 pm PT
Review:  After a series of legendary fails, like Dead *snore* Space, comes Legendary, a game filled with 
 action!
  
  The story is simple, taken directly from a 90's action movie. It makes little sense, or it's just 
 well over the top, and it's great! You know instantly than you need some popcorn for this. The 
 game is filled with cinematic moments, and the action is non stop. No, it's not the best FPS and 
 far from it, but in a time where most games fail at keeping you in your toes, this one gives you 
 little time to rest. There is no need for saving ammo, they want to make sure you keep things dead 
 and give you refills almost instantly, and even though I didn't find the game hard, it has its 
 moments where you die. 
  
  Sometimes it has some moments some people might think its frustrating, but I find those moments 
 the thing that makes the game what it is. For example there is this Hydra-a-like think in the sewers, 
 and its tentacles can almost insta-kill you, after you passed the whole map with the thing below 
 you, when you are safe something fails and you hit the water. That's the game, if something bad 
 is bound to happen, it happens, you have to kill it all, eat popcorn.
  
  I recommend this game for:
  People who like senseless action movies.
  "Oh cool!" cheesy scenes.
 
  Action, instead of losing 10 minutes walking around trying to find what to do (*cof* Fallout 3 
 *cof* (Good game, though. Simply different.) )
  Humor in obviously clichd situations, like "We were the only ones who got out of there safe!", 
 then suddenly random mythological creature eats his head. Funny! ;)
  
  I recommend you to try it, and then judge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asmoddeuss
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 20, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  Legendary , a game about the Pandora's Box , quite interesting but not well done. I gave this game 
 a 7.0 , for my point of view it doesn't deserve more , and I will mention the reasons.
  
  First of all , the idea of a game about Pandora's Box and demons coming out of it in NY is a great 
 idea , but this idea can be a disappointment if is not done correctly, like in the case of Legendary. 
 At least is not totally bad , there are also positive points.
  
  When you start the game , it feels not so bad , lots of destruction and beams (coming from the 
 pandora's box) , the specials effects are not bad , but for my taste is not up to date. This game 
 have been done with UT3 Engine , and it's really making me think why they didn't take full advantage 
 of the engine, I am still playing UT3 online and I think the graphics are awesome. So my first 
 let down with this game was the graphics , some textures looks horrible , and some objects textures 
 too, for example , there are a lot of objects around the game that looks awfully old fashion textured. 
 The cars on the streets shows some kind of "reflections" , but it's funny when you go close to 
 them and you don't see your own reflection on the cars, making it feel like a fake reflection method. 
 Also there are a lot of people dead on the streets or running away from the disaster , but they 
 look very bad detailed and blurred textured at the point that you cannot difference the eyes from 
 the face (some of the people you find around the game are good detailed, not all of them are bad)
 
  
  On the other side , the demons and creatures from the pandora's box like the griffons are very 
 good detailed and great designed, they look awesome , they really made a nice job on them , all 
 the demons/creatures are very good detailed and well done, it's really cool. Also weapons are good 
 detailed.
  
  Another thing are the weapons sounds , they really sound bad , not real at all , when you use them 
 it feels like fake , like no real weapons , also your character is very slow at switching weapons 
 and that makes it a bit difficult in some situations , like a werewolf that you need to decapitate 
 ; switching from your machine-gun to the axe can be frustrating and making you a bit nervous, the 
 mapped keys also doesn't helps much as if you switched to the wrong weapon you cannot switch it 
 again until your character put the weapon in his hand , and you are like pressing 3 times the mapped 
 key and he is not switching yet .
  
  An important point that I want to remark is the jumping system , it's horrible , your character 
 jumps to low that you cannot even reach a small box or very low highs , it seems that you can only 
 reach boxes that are designed to be reached.... making it totally absurd.
  
  I have seen that in many areas the creatures keeps re-spawing with no limit , you can kill 20 of 
 them and they will still re-spawn , sometimes is not bad but sometimes is annoying as you an waste 
 all your ammunition.
  
  The story of the game is good enough , no complains here.
  
  So far I didn't have any crash or issue with the game , it runs smooth and it seems very stable.
 
  
  This game is not so bad as mentioned in other reviews , this game deserve at least to try it. The 
 idea and the creatures/demons are very nice. I hope that someone make a MOD for this game to fix 
 many things, or if they make a patch to improve the graphics , but I doubt it.
  
  This game is not the best one out there , it doesn't deserve a high score , but it's also not the 
 worst , it is just sad they didn't take advantage of the UT3 engine, I am sure they could do it 
 better.
  
  I am playing this game with my PC , here are the specs ;
  
  CPU: Intel quad core 2 q6600 g0 at 2.4ghz (stock)
  MEM: 4 GB of RAM DDR3
  OS: Windows vista 
 64x SP1 with DirectX 10
  GPU: 2x 9800 GX2 2GB Quad SLI setup with latest nvidia drivers (not the beta one, I heard that 
 many people are having blue screen of dead with it) .
  
  As I said, the game runs perfect on my system , no lags, no crashes , no issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 9:06 am PT
Review:  when i saw that GAMESPOT gaved this game a 3.5 i was in shock, what da hell? are you kiddin me? 
 this game deserve at least 7.0, and im gonna tell you why right now:
  
  sounds: the sounds are great, shooting, explosions, scary sounds makes the game a little scary... 
 its really good!
  
  graphics: ok, so in the review GAMESPOT said that this game is ugly well i dont think so, sure 
 this game isnt with the most amazing graphics, or the best visual effects, but its not ugly, i 
 have seen some worst graphic games off 2008\2007 (IRON MAN, THE HULK and more..) the game graphics 
 is ok its not awsome and not ugly its in the middle
  
  story: the story is broken i think.. i didnt understand a thing, but even that the story is broken, 
 the game is still great
  
  gameplay: the gameplay can be really bad sometimes but most of the times the game is real fun, 
 what i like about the game is the first levels that the city is drowning with caos, monsters, explosions, 
 and more.. its really fun also you can use some "powers" with your hand after it gets burned, and 
 more..
  
  well i think that if you read my review and loved that game you should rent it if you like it than 
 buy it, but dont look at the 3.5 score 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
