-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Legion Arena
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/legionarena/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fun, fast-paced, lightweight tactical game.
 Breeze through ancient history and learn at the same time.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The game only features battles.
 There isn't any type of overarching strategic layer to tie the battles together.
 The limited content and gameplay make for a thin game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  5, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.9
Critic Score: 6.8, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 196 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: Slitherine Soft.
Genre: Historic Turn-Based...
Date:     Nov 22, 2005
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This tactical combat game features battles, battles, and more battles, and it's fun, though very 
 light on content or depth. 

  The back of the Legion Arena box has the famous Julius Caesar quotation "Veni, vidi, vici" on it 
 ("I came, I saw, I conquered") , which is a pretty apt description of this tactical combat game 
 from Slitherine Software. Though its name may make you think it's a sequel to Slitherine's 2002 
 strategy game Legion, that's not quite the case, as Legion Arena takes out all the strategic aspects 
 of being able to run the Roman Empire. Instead, this tactical combat game puts you in the shoes 
 of a military commander on the ground, tasked only with winning a long series of battles. The result 
 is a fast-paced and fun game, but one that's admittedly very lightweight and doesn't have much 
 overall depth to it.  

          Legion Arena is all battles and nothing but battles, which is both good and bad. The battles 
 are great, but we wish there were a bit more beyond that.     

  The Arena in Legion Arena alludes to the fact that this is a game about battles. Or, more specifically, 
 the great battles of the Roman and Celtic empires, including the Etruscan and Punic Wars and beyond. 
 While there are three campaigns in Legion Arena, the first campaign is essentially a quick tutorial, 
 so you'll primarily play from a Roman or Celtic perspective, and these are huge campaigns, as there 
 are more than 100 battles in the game.  

  Basically, your job is to lead troops in each battle. Win, and you move to the next battle in the 
 campaign. Lose, and you automatically reload to before the battle, where you can tweak your strategies 
 and troop formations. In fact, most battles are won and lost in the planning phase, as you must 
 deploy your troops onto the battlefield, giving them initial orders and formations (defensive, 
 balanced, offensive) and taking the terrain into account. (Rough terrain is bad for cavalry, while 
 open terrain can leave certain infantry heavily exposed and vulnerable.) Once everything is set, 
 simply hit the start button, and the battle unfolds at a rapid pace. And while you can give orders 
 on the battlefield to react to certain situations, this isn't always easy, as the game models the 
 inherent difficulty of managing a massive battle. After all, trying to give multiple orders to 
 different units spread out over a battlefield can be extremely difficult. To reflect this, your 
 general only has a limited number of order points that he can expend, and then he has to wait for 
 the point bar to slowly recharge. Between battles, you can improve the drill abilities of your 
 units so that they require fewer order points to command, but you're still going to have to pay 
 careful attention to your initial deployments.  

  There's very much a puzzlelike element to the battles in Legion Arena, as you have to solve some 
 pretty challenging tactical situations. Some might require you to win within a certain amount of 
 time (say three minutes) , while others will require you to inflict a minimum number of causalities 
 on the enemy, or limit the number of causalities that you take, or both. You have to carefully 
 study the makeup of the enemy army, as well as the terrain, and deploy your units to take advantage 
 of any mismatches. For example, if the enemy's flank is composed of light militia, that might be 
 where you want to attack with heavy cavalry. Or you might want to put skirmishers in wooded areas 
 so that they're not exposed in the open. The fact that there's really no penalty if you lose (you 
 simply try, try again until you get it right) puts no real pressure on you. There's no sense of 
 loss, either, and the Roman and Celtic empires never really feel in danger.  

  In between battles, you can recruit troops, replace losses, promote units, and purchase better 
 equipment. This is where most of the game's strategic depth can be found, as you can really tinker 
 around with the makeup of your army. For instance, you can create highly specialized anti-cavalry 
 units, improve the trampling ability of your own cavalry, train killer archer units, and more. 
 Units gain experience in battle, and you can use these experience points to purchase various unit 
 upgrades. Meanwhile, replacing losses isn't too hard; you expend fame points to do so, and since 
 you get a ton of fame points for a win, you're usually in no danger of not being able to replace 
 losses.  

          Success is often dependent on the opening disposition of your forces. Thankfully, if you 
 lose, you automatically start over.     

  The sheer fast-paced nature of battles (most are over in less than five minutes) , coupled with 
 the little downtime between battles, makes Legion Arena feel like a pretty lightweight strategy 
 game. Once you've gotten over the short learning curve, you'll be blitzing through centuries of 
 history in no time, and the game feels like a nice introduction to the great battles of the ancient 
 world. The game even comes with a free e-book of the Gallic Wars if you want to learn more. At 
 the same time, there's not a lot of depth or variety in the game. Sure, the battles get progressively 
 harder, but they're generally not so hard as to cause frustration, and the fact that you play them 
 over until you get them right means that they're more like puzzles than epic moments in history 
 upon which everything hinges. Legion Arena has multiplayer support for two, though the game's built-in 
 browser is a bit rudimentary. Still, you can set up matches by determining the number of battles 
 per round, the amount of denari each side starts with (to purchase units) , and which maps to battle 
 on.  

  While the screenshots may make Legion Arena look a bit like 2004's huge hit Rome: Total War, the 
 games actually aren't all that similar. In Legion Arena, you can't command armies of tens of thousands 
 of troops. Instead, the game abstracts some of the details, so you'll command troops on a much 
 smaller scale, and the battlefields themselves aren't that large. Given the game's relatively small 
 budget, the 3D graphics engine looks pretty good. We wish there were a bit more musical variety 
 (you'll hear the same battle song over and over) , and the sound effects are a bit thin, but, in 
 general, this is a good-looking strategy game. And that pretty much sums up Legion Arena. The game 
 has a good battle engine, but that's about all it has. Hopefully, Slitherine will build on this 
 and include the overarching strategy game next time.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Flavius_Aetius
Rating: 1.1
Date: Nov 29, 2006 11:37 pm PT
Review:  This has to be one of the biggest disapointments in PC gaming history. I was not expecting Rome, 
 Total War. I did expect more than this. I accept, the that it is a low budget game, and I expected 
 poor graphics, what I don't accept is just poor execution.
  
  While I would really like to blame poor AI. It's not, matter of fact there is no AI whatsoever. 
 I mean sure there is always micromanagement in every RTS, and I would accept that, however in this 
 game your troops are just retarded. No matter what order you give them, from the set up, it takes 
 you to physically put them on the right path.
  
  While battles really don't take any tactics, it's frustratiing when you lose a battle because, 
 your troops just stand there, and your goal is to rout the enemy within a certain amount of time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wackys
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 29, 2006 6:46 am PT
Review:  The whole idea is to create a huge army and battle a huge army it's fun and it never get's booring 
 and you can buy 100 troops and equip them badly or you can have 10 troopers upgraded to the max. There 
 is some strategy going on here like to attack the flanks with the cavalry and kill the leader to 
 demoralize them and then come with your whole force into them. At first the game is easy but after 
 a while it will get tougher but you can beat the computer. The graphics are good but they could 
 have been better. It sounds good and you can play it again to see some battles that you had many 
 casualties and try to reverse them. Overall the game is cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Julien2623
Rating: 6.2
Date: Feb 5, 2006 9:15 am PT
Review:  Legion Arena is a very good strategy game, you have to plan your battle before it begun and that 
 part of the process become critical as you goes trought the game.
  
  The first maps are easy going but you see there is one more step on each level. You keep your units 
 from the beggining to the end, they follows you and aquire experience (you upgrade your units as 
 you want them) .
  
  So as I say i haved a very good 10 hours with it but the game do not goes deep in detail, its only 
 about the next battle.
  
  A lot of maps have objectives, most objective can be funny, but when you are asked to eliminate 
 the ennemy army within 2 minutes, there i have an objection. It can kill the game right there. 
 Especially as the last map I did haved a bug, i eliminated all of my ennemies on time, but i never 
 gain victory... bug... and no patch available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: survivorejam
Rating: 2.4
Date: Jan 24, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  You see you are shown screens that look a lot like a Rome Total war game with the city building 
 and resource management . There's different towns shown as the game installs and seems like you 
 can chose what kind of units to train in each town you own ... WRONG ! This game is stupid . A 
 real let down as all you do is rush into meaningless battle after battle. At one point you lead 
 your worst enemies against your beloved people . And just like the in-game story line : you (the 
 player) are forced by the game designers to fight with no alternative offered. Why bother with 
 such a lame and amateure story line ? You are human yet you supposedly can live forever ? you never 
 eat marry or rest ? It's impossible to identify with the story's hero.
  This game could have been a MUCH better game had the premise simply focused on the Coliseum and 
 the Gladiator games. They should of said that you are a slave gladiator forced to fight for your 
 life through many battles that recreate Rome's greatest battles. Then the game engine would have 
 made a lot more sense as you upgrade surviving troops from battle to battle. Hey come to think 
 of it that could be a great idea for a number of different genres ! Imagine a BF2 version or a 
 World of Warcraft twist on it ?
  So if you buy this game get your receipt and back to the store and lay the smack down on the sleazy 
 so and so who sold it to you .... DeathJem out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pattydude666
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jan 18, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  Okay, this game is just a copy of 100 other games that are squad based plain battle fighting. It's 
 not a really great game. I give it around a 5. People want to see improvements and MORE not just 
 watch battles. They want to LIVE the battles. As in, get in there, let people have a little more 
 interaction with the battle. I'm sorry but this game doesn't quite cut it. It's watch battles, 
 fight none. The way to win to mass units. Case closed, it really doesn't take any skill. Gamers 
 want something to bite into, something to challenge them.
  
  - Pat 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zweihanderhero
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jan 10, 2006 6:36 am PT
Review:  
  Id be remiss if I didnt say that Legion Arena took me by surprise. Id never heard of the game 
 until I was given a copy to review. For an unknown title, it was a pleasant surprise to find that 
 while it wasnt a great game by far, it was a pretty enjoyable and decent title to play with.
 
  
  Playing a bit like Kessen on the PS2, Legion Arena puts you in the shoes of either a Roman general 
 or later on in the campaign, as a Gallic general. Nonetheless, who ever you play as, the end result 
 is still the same. You need to lead you side to victory. Before each battle, youre given historical 
 information on the battle youll be fighting. While Ive never cared much for battles involved 
 men thousands of years ago, the mini-documentaries actually are done pretty well and are entertaining 
 enough to watch. They also server as bridge of sorts, as you go on from battle to another.
  
  Sadly, thats all youll ever do in the game. Youll be thrust from one battle to another with 
 only a pause in between to rebuild your troops, train new troops or upgrade your troops. Done with 
 that and youre back on the battlefield. After awhile though, the lack of stuff to do in the game 
 starts to sink in. While the battles are fun and fast paced (expect them to take no more than 10 
 minutes max) , once the battles start there is very little to be done.
  
  See, battles in Arena take place on a square grid. The grid may be populated by open terrain or 
 rough areas or a mix of more types. Open areas are good for cavalry and wooden areas for your skirmishers 
 and other types. Every single unit is good at something and lame in other areas, basic strategy 
 stuff that is. You can see the placements of enemy units on any map, so youll always know what 
 youll be up against. A major killjoy that was for me since the element of surprise is gone. For 
 better (or for worse) youll always come into battle having a relatively good knowledge of your 
 enemies strengths and weaknesses.
  
  Knowing that, its up to you to select what units you want to use, set them on the battlefield 
 and then finally let loose the dogs of war. Once battle has begun, you can order your troops around 
 but every troop type and order has a certain amount of order points needed for the order to be 
 done. Order points depend on your general and as he gains experience, so do the amount of points 
 he has. To refill order points, you need to wait for the meter to slowly build up. I like this 
 way of giving orders as it kinda reflects on the chaotic nature of war in that one unit may not 
 always know what the other is doing at any given more. Hell, if anything it makes you plan more 
 cautiously so that you dont needlessly waste order points only to have been ambushed and then 
 find that you dont have any order points to command your troops to regroup.
  
  The graphics, while relatively basic, is serviceable and conveys nicely the chaos as troops rush 
 headlong into each other. While Id love for the game to have more animations, cavalry rushing 
 through instead of standing still once they engage for instance, what is inside is fun enough to 
 suspend your sensation of belief. The only downer to the whole game is its repetitive music. The 
 same piece plays over and over during the battles and soon enough it gets tiresome listening to 
 it.
  
  Thats the main gist of the game. The relatively simple battle system is just like a more refined 
 version of rock paper and scissors. While easy to learn, it doesnt exactly offer much depth and 
 tactics to get the upper hand most of the time. One doesnt need much to see that Legion Arena 
 is a budget title and as such it fares remarkably well. While the light strategy found here wont 
 win over armchair generals, those who wish their strategy games to be somewhat on the easy side, 
 educational and entertaining will do well to check out Legion Arena.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexander_brady
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Alright, this game has blown my mind. I had to tone DOWN my rating, so as not to sound superfluous.
 
  
  You know all those strategy games that claim to give the player large battles instantly? And how 
 they all take a half-hour minimum? You know those games who claim to have customizable soldiers, 
 but only give you three options? Well, this game truly delivers.
  
  Alright, to back that statement up, I need to give a bit of background. I was drifting around, 
 no game I could think of worth playing, bored out of my mind. So I came to the gamespot downloads 
 section to aide me in my misery (popular past time of mine) . There was this game, the one I am 
 reviewing, that looked decent, so I got the demo (I try to play the demo before the getting the 
 game, and so don't have many games I would consider bad. Lots of bad demos, though) .
  
  I went through the tutorial, and by the time it ended, I knew the game was good (who doesn't like 
 grand fights, realistic controls, and the wonderful roman history as a backdrop?) . Now, I know 
 that the game is not RTW, as has been shown, but I must mention why the game's battle system is 
 so much better than RTW's.
  
  One, the view. I found the RTW view clunky (yes, that is the word) and hard to maneuver. This game 
 has, by comparison, a simple view, rather similar to standard RTS's which is much nicer.
  
  Two, set-up. No super-fast clicks trying to pull off that flank of yours before your opponent can 
 move decent defense there. In fact, no clicking surges. In Single Player, 90% of the strategy is 
 in how your line is deployed. In multiplayer, the player's in-battle flair is no more than 30% 
 of the game.
  
  And the order point system. This is a god-send. Instead of out-manoeuvres lasting the ten seconds 
 until your opponent can wheel their entire line to crush yours, you often get the thirty seconds 
 needed to break the enemy line and claim the day. Much more realistic.
  
  Finally, the squads themselves. Instead of following other games with "experience," this game truly 
 allows uniqueness in every squad. One could be tailored to fight infantry. But it is more than 
 that. Because there are so many upgrades, and more opinions, so my Hastati who is designed to kill 
 enemy infantry could still be the antipathy of yours. It is that good.
  
  Overall, this is the only game I have known that truly allows you to be fighting a full-scale battle 
 in less than 10 minutes and be done in 20. Currently, the only drawback is the multiplayer, as 
 the player numbers are limited and the ladder a little clumsy, but there is a strong drive for 
 a closer community and if you visit the forums, you should be able to get a daily game at least.
 
  
  I have rarely been more pleased. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDMan62
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 1, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  This is the first strategy pc game that I've played in a long time. In fact Civ II was the last 
 one that I played. I was hoping that the game play and graphics were going to be improved. I am 
 disappointed in the choice that I made to purchase Legion Arena. It's pretty much the same thing 
 over and over. You set your squads and then watch them battle. There is no player developement 
 and really no player involvement once the battle has begun. You can tell a squad to go attack while 
 in battle but that's pretty much it for player involvement.
  
  I was hoping that I was going to get hours of intriguing gameplay, that's just not the case. So 
 I will now be patiently waiting for Conan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 19560909
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 31, 2005 1:50 pm PT
Review:  After reading the other reviews on this game i was told that this game would be better than Rome 
 Total War, Legion Arena isn't even in the same League! Rome Total War is ten times better than 
 Legion Arena.
  There is no custom battle maker on it, the sounds effects are dreadful, the music is monotonous, 
 the fighting is just chaotic (in a bad way) , when the cavalry charge into battle they just stop 
 when they reach the enemy unlike in Total War where men will go flying through the air, the campaign 
 is just a series of battle one after another and the battles are on such a small scale it seems 
 more like a pub fight than a battle. I paid 15 Pounds ($25,85) for it when it is only worth a fiver. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neunet
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 17, 2005 12:21 am PT
Review:  When i first get Legion Arena i thought its a copy of Rome Total War , but its not :) . I like the 
 role playing futures and the strategy moments. Legion Arena is based on true History of Rome Empire. You 
 start from a small province and start conquering your neighbours. With your fame you will get more 
 important battles and with your money you can buy new army. By conquering special provinces you 
 can get their special army. This is very good game. From the creatures of SPARTAN and Gates of Troy 
 (TBS) . I like this games but if you are action fan you wont be very impressed. I hope we will see 
 Legion Arena II , the game really need better graphics! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razza92
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 27, 2005 4:28 pm PT
Review:  this is a kind of game i wanted to see in a strategy game and i got it! you can recruit new people 
 get loads of rep and to make them differ from one another they get different abilities from different 
 squads! this game is more about fighting and tactics then a story but the battles fit in good from 
 the stories.. there are a vast selection of soldiers from auxilia archers to legionaries to elephants! 
 and it is well worth it! i got it for 19.99 and it is really best money for value, not good.. 
 best! I would give this a nearly 10 ! if it had a better storyline and more scenarios even though 
 theres loads of scenarios already but u know u get d kind of feeling u dont wana finish it too 
 early lol. and yea this should definitely be on your christmas list 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoman99
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 22, 2005 7:37 am PT
Review:  I've been playing Legion Arena for 1 night only and Im already impressed with what I see. The 
 historical part of the game is really accurate; I could have used this game to study for my Roman 
 History final exam. The combat part of the game is pretty straight forward. The pause you get to 
 prep yourself before combat is a relief. Finally you can actually see where the enemy units are 
 on the map, unlike Total war, which gives you the side they are coming from. This aspect makes 
 lots of sense because in war times, you always had scout to spot the enemies. The best part of 
 the game is the after combat playability. You decide who to promote, give them what advantage. 
 This way you can keep cheaper infantry that you had at the beginning, like a party of militia, 
 and upgrade it so it can be more efficient than a party of spearmen
  
  Example: my militia has 10 level of experience, I chose to give them
  Infantry combat specialist 
 (+ 10 infantry damage)
  Expert swordsmen (+9 to hit)
  Greater block (+ 4 armor)
  Junior officer (+25 morale)
  Cavalry combat advantage (+5 cavalry damage)
  Missile protection 
 (+4 missile armor bonus)
  
  And there was lots more options to choose from. The game itself is an excellent one just with this 
 aspect. The only flaw I saw was that the graphics in combat are disappointing. In Rome Total War, 
 when horses charged an enemy infantry group, you saw guys flying because of the impact. Legion 
 Arena, nothing, you only see two groups meet in the middle of the field and. that is it, they 
 fight.
  
  Kevins Grade book: 94 %, Pass
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
