-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Legion
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/legion/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  7, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.9
Critic Score: 6.4, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 53 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: Slitherine Soft.
Genre: Historic Turn-Based...
Date:     Jun 3, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Though Legion doesn't have a lot of superfluous details, it also lacks the essential elements that 
 make strategy games with authentic settings so appealing. 

 Legion is the latest gaming foray into the classical civilization that gave us Julius Caesar and 
 Caligula. This strategy game from Paradox Entertainment and Slitherine Software looks at early 
 Roman history, featuring on four campaigns that focus on the conquest of Italy and expansion into 
 Gaul and Britain. It features a real-time battlefield with 22 different units representing Rome 
 and numerous barbarian tribes, epic gameplay with more than 20 AI factions competing with you for 
 dominance of the map, and an economic model where you gather resources and build an empire. So, 
 on paper, there's a lot to Legion. Yet once you start playing it, Legion seems stripped down. Everything 
 seems to have been done on the cheap.           Conquering Gaul, one dead barbarian at a time. 
    

 The game apparently wasn't created with the same "everything but the kitchen sink" philosophy that 
 Paradox used in its recent games, the highly acclaimed Europa Universalis and its sequel. While 
 those games overwhelmed players with events and personages taken straight out of the history books, 
 this one employs a softer focus. Yes, you can fight Julius Caesar's Gallic Wars, but you don't 
 get the chance to command as him on the battlefield. Nor will you get the opportunity to deal with 
 authentic British tribal leaders of the first century when you cross the English Channel. Unit 
 types are nicely varied and present a good cross section of what was available to the Romans and 
 their barbarian adversaries, including legionaries, praetorians, hoplites, archers, and cavalry. 
 Still, they're only rough approximations of the real thing, very similar to units found in any 
 run-of-the-mill real-time strategy game. Legion is actually closer to traditional real-time strategy 
 games like Command &amp; Conquer than it is to a comprehensive survey of history like Europa Universalis. 
   

  In part because of this reliance on real-time strategy fundamentals, and in part because of a desire 
 to re-create the actual conditions of ancient warfare, Legion comes up short in offering you a 
 chance to make meaningful tactical decisions. Battles are rudimentary affairs that you begin by 
 choosing a formation from a short list of a dozen types, all of which involve variants of an old-fashioned 
 tank rush. You then issue orders telling your troops when and how to engage the enemy and sit back 
 to see whether you win or lose. Nothing can be done once a battle gets underway. This is a somewhat 
 accurate reenactment of how ancient generals were often incommunicado, though it doesn't fully 
 take into account the remarkable communications systems employed by Roman armies along the frontiers 
 of the Republic (and in the later imperial period) . Also, battles in the ancient world typically 
 lasted for quite some time, giving commanders the opportunity to issue new orders if things weren't 
 going well. In Legion, armies clash together and a victor emerges within a minute or two.      
      You only get one chance to give orders for each battle.    

 But while it's disappointing that the developers chose not to model combat sequences after historical 
 truths, it's even more of a letdown that they have turned the player into a spectator during the 
 most exciting part of the game. Not being able to directly influence the outcome of a battle is 
 at first frustrating, and later boring. There is some amount of tension when watching a battle, 
 especially in the early moments, when you're waiting to see if the enemy will play into your hands, 
 though the sheer number of engagements means that few battles will actually assume an air of importance. 
 Opposing forces generally aren't all that bright, either. A little forethought and the use of a 
 basic maneuver like staggering the advance of your formations so that you hit the enemy like a 
 wave is typically all that's needed to crush any opponent. Unfortunately, your charges are just 
 as dumb, and they'll often stick to orders, no matter how ill-advised. Order a short advance and 
 hold, and your troops will do just that, even in the presence of a column of archers mere feet 
 away, happily slaughtering the immobile targets.    

 The turn-based management part of the game is also mostly automatic. Conquered towns and cities 
 grow at a steady pace, meaning that you usually have a sizable pool of citizens to build your armies 
 from. Resources can be gathered pretty much anywhere you have a settlement, although there is some 
 regard for the surrounding terrain. All you need to do to ensure a steady supply of food, wood, 
 and ore is construct farms, lumber yards, and mines and assign peasants to operate them. Resources 
 are shared throughout your empire, so there are no trade concerns. This makes for an easy-to-play 
 game with no micromanagement, but as with the combat, things have been simplified a bit too much. 
 There is a limited number of building types, and there is no research ability that would allow 
 you to develop new ones. Showing the Romans and their tribal enemies as uninterested in technology 
 may very well be accurate, though it certainly makes for a dull game when you're erecting the same 
 buildings over and over again. At the very least, Legion could have allowed you to research military 
 advancements that would allow the production of different weapon types, armor, and fighting strategies. 
           All city management tasks are handled here.    

 All this streamlining means that relatively few momentous decisions need to be made during the course 
 of a campaign. You build towns, gather the resources needed to recruit soldiers, and conquer neighbors 
 in such a formulaic fashion that the game seems to be rolling forward on wheels. Enemy forces generally 
 start off inferior to Rome, so they often turtle and sit idle, waiting for an attack or a diplomatic 
 approach (which come in handy when the potential is there to be waging war on more than one front) . 
 Others go on the offensive at inappropriate times. Campaign play can be somewhat spiced up by taking 
 control of an enemy tribe, though the gameplay doesn't change much whether you're ruling the Romans 
 or the Celtiberians. Besides, most of the tribes are faceless entities that most people have never 
 heard of, much less been interested in playing as in a strategy game. It's only interesting to 
 switch roles and fight against Rome in the Unification of Italy campaign, due to the challenge 
 involved in trying to change history. And when you're done with the four campaigns, you're done 
 with Legion. There is no skirmish mode to play set-piece battles in -- a real disappointment, considering 
 some of the almost legendary Roman engagements that could have been depicted -- and no multiplayer 
 option.   

  Paradox and Slitherine also seem to have forgotten to finish the graphics. Legion's production 
 values just don't match what's on display in the Europa Universalis series, a bad sign when you 
 consider that those games were two years out of date on the days that they were launched. Though 
 the campaign map features fairly attractive 2D visuals that include accurate geographic features 
 and landmarks such as England's Stonehenge, and the user interface screens are clean and intuitive, 
 the battlefield sequences are terrible. Background terrain is composed of a limited number of tiles 
 depicting grassland and other generic features, making each battle look the same as the last. Units 
 are tiny multicolored blobs with indistinguishable features and virtually no detail. Even after 
 many hours spent with the game, it's difficult to tell one type of soldier from another. The audio 
 is similarly anonymous. The score is composed of lightweight Enya-style tunes, and the in-game 
 effects are little more than birds chirping and gruff soldiers shouting entertaining Latin responses 
 to your commands.           Keep track of advancing armies on the campaign screen.    

 At its heart, Legion is nothing more than Europa Universalis Lite. The shallow combat system and 
 unsophisticated management features have clearly been aimed at people who like the  idea  of a 
 comprehensive historical strategy game, but not the reality. Paradox and Slitherine went too far 
 in their efforts to simplify the gameplay. Though Legion doesn't have a lot of extraneous details, 
 it also lacks the essential elements that make strategy games with authentic settings so appealing. 
 A historical game about conquest and empire building can't have a combat engine that runs largely 
 on autopilot, a management engine that features very little to actually build, and a series of 
 campaigns that consciously ignore important figures and events. Still, Legion isn't so much a bad 
 game as it is a rather dull one that doesn't quite know what it wants to be.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: At the time when it came out it was only (before Rome: Total War) Roman/Ancient Real 
 time strategy around and it was turned based. Legion was created by Slitherine, a British game 
 developer, and published jointly by Strategy First and Paradox, the folks responsible for Europa 
 Universalis. It's a turn-based game played on map where province borders are determined by occupying 
 cities. The goal of a game is to control 40% of the map and be at least 25% stronger than the next 
 most powerful player. There are four maps, which can be played from which you can select from one 
 of the many local tribes or the Romans who have a little provance on the map. So each provence 
 or city you take over, and the sole purpose of that is to generate money and create armys. The 
 battles are ok, you great rather large armys to send in to battle. What I liked about it was the 
 whole trample effect the calvery did at the time and the amound of blood and carnage after the 
 battle. What I did not like about it was you could not controle your units of men after the battle 
 started which is not good when you really need your men to manouve to defeat the enemy. So anyways, 
 It is so strait forward that a young child can pick up on the gameplay.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are colorful I have to say and mostly 2-D with some 3-D effects. But they 
 are definatly not the best I have seen.
  
  Sound: The sound is appropiate for the theme and the sounds in the battles are good, but the voice 
 acting is not so great.
  
  Value: Before Rome Total War I always wanted to play an anciet themed RTS game so thats why I picked 
 this up since there was a lack of them. So I would say once you have played though this game you 
 probrably not want to play this game again and go play Rome: Total war. I give this game 5.5 out 
 of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elstoneman
Rating: 1.7
Date: Jun 6, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  I got this outta the bargain bin because i was looking for something vaguely Rome-themed (these 
 were the days before Rome: Total War) . Then I learned why it was in the bargain bin. This game 
 is just so DULL!
  
  After a baffling tutorial that made little sense with a frankly terrible voice-over and a blank 
 wall of text telling me what to do, I finally managed to navigate the little man of my army into 
 another grid square to begin a fight. That's when things got really, REALLY, re-HE-ally bad...
 
  
  After selecting some reasonably good looking units, I sent them into battle. Imagine my surprise 
 when, as things start to lose cohesion, I can't actually do anything but sit there and watch my 
 men flee in terror. Slowly. Very slowly indeed.
  
  Frankly, unless you're seriously desperate, avoid this at all costs, it's just not worth your time, 
 or money, no matter how cheap it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ballintinius
Rating: 5.9
Date: Apr 16, 2007 6:12 am PT
Review:  Now, don't get me wrong Legion as a game is fine, just it's not much OF a game, really. Legion 
 is more of a, well, an ancient complex version of Risk. It has some nice elements, like the dialogue 
 is in Latin, and the music is period and... well... that's it. The graphics are basic, the game AI 
 simple and the strategy is elementary. The game moves at a good pace and you do need to keep track 
 of actions happening with the AI in other areas of the map, but it can get somewhat either overwhelming 
 if you don't pay attention... or boring if you are doing well. There really is no middle ground. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
