-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Lego Rock Raiders
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/legorockraiders/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 28, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.1
Critic Score: 6.5, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 203 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Lego Media
Developer: Data Design Int.
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Nov 30, 1999
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite its good looks and sounds, LEGO Rock Raiders is often frustrating and at times downright 
 boring to play. 

 LEGO Rock Raiders is a real-time strategy game that sounds good and looks great. Its clean graphics 
 and quirky animation are complemented by clearly delivered voice-overs, good sound effects and 
 background music, all of which are upbeat, if repetitive. Unfortunately, despite its good looks 
 and sounds, LEGO Rock Raiders is often frustrating and at times downright boring to play.  

 LEGO Rock Raiders takes its title from the actual building-block set of the same name and from 
 the stalwart crew of characters you command in the game. The intrepid Rock Raiders have been sucked 
 into an intergalactic wormhole and forced to land on a faraway planet. Their only hope of getting 
 home is to mine the planet's caverns for ore and energy crystals to repair their damaged starship. 

 From the moment your first crew member is beamed down to the planet to the end of each mission-based 
 level, LEGO Rock Raiders looks very good. For instance, even though each of the game's levels takes 
 place in some sort of rocky cavern, the walls, rocks, and other features are all plainly but cleanly 
 textured. Rock Raiders' character models are also simple, blocky shapes detailed by simple, solid-color 
 textures. Yet your LEGO troopers and buildings look exactly as they should; characters and buildings 
 all look exactly like their colorful plastic snap-together counterparts. The Rock Raiders and the 
 dangerous-yet-cute alien monsters they encounter are all cleverly and whimsically animated - both 
 in the actual game and in the excellent cutscenes that precede each mission.  

 Each of Rock Raiders' 33 missions is accompanied by simple, low-key techno tracks whose bass-heavy 
 beats are in keeping with the game's underground locales but are otherwise forgettable. Likewise, 
 Rock Raiders' voice acting is effective in most cases. It's especially informative in enhanced 
 mode, one of the game's two installment options, the other being standard install. In enhanced 
 mode, resting the cursor on any onscreen object or character elicits a loud, clearly spoken voice 
 cue; younger children might find the extra identification helpful while playing. And Chief, the 
 Rock Raiders captain, speaks with an amusingly gruff faux British accent as he briefs you on each 
 mission and walks you through the game's seven tutorial missions in their entirety.  

 However, Chief's briefings and hints are long-winded and dry - so much so that the same youngsters 
 who were probably intended to benefit from his thoroughness may instead find themselves dozing 
 off at the keyboard. Fortunately, Rock Raiders' in-game sound effects are good enough to hold anyone's 
 attention; the landslides and dynamite explosions emit loud, appropriate rumbles and crashes, and 
 both the raiders and the monsters make their own endearingly humorous noises when they get injured 
 or tired, or when they do pretty much anything other than dig, build, or wander about.  

 Unfortunately, digging, building, and wandering about are pretty much all your units do. There's 
 no actual combat in Rock Raiders; when you do encounter a monster, you click your mouse once to 
 put your units on action stations, and they'll scare off the enemy on their own. In fact, your 
 raiders will do pretty much everything on their own, despite the vague hierarchy of priorities 
 you can set for them. This autopilot artificial intelligence was probably intended to keep youngsters 
 from being overwhelmed by micromanaging many different units at once - as such, all you do in Rock 
 Raiders is give out orders, sit, wait, and hope they get carried out soon. However, your units 
 are so autonomous that they'll often directly disobey orders, and this can be frustrating to say 
 the least. To make matters worse, Rock Raiders' interface isn't terribly helpful - there are no 
 means to jump to or center on a specific raider, so you'll have to scroll around the screen to 
 find the one AWOL raider you need to complete the mission.  

 Rock Raiders' mission design doesn't do much for the game either. Since there's no combat, no diplomacy, 
 and very little effective unit management, the majority of the gameplay is gathering resources 
 to build structures. Even though different missions will have different objectives, like rescuing 
 lost team members or building an air-supply station before your oxygen runs out, the ultimate objective 
 for each mission is the same: Gather resources, either to build a certain building - perhaps to 
 create a certain vehicle in turn - or simply to fulfill the mission's quota. No matter what you 
 do, you'll usually find yourself waiting for your raiders to go back and forth among the cavern 
 walls to collect enough resources - and in later missions, when more development and more resources 
 are required, this can be tedious indeed. Even the search-and-rescue missions are largely dependent 
 on building the right structure or vehicle, which you'll need to locate and/or reach your teammates. 
 And to make matters worse, you can't save your game in the middle of a mission - so to advance 
 through the game, you'll have to sit through each long resource-gathering session from start to 
 finish.  

 It's truly lamentable that Rock Raiders turned out the way it did. It sounds good and looks even 
 better, and its emphasis on building over combat seemed like it would make Rock Raiders a fun, 
 nonviolent means of introducing younger players to the concentration and management skills that 
 real-time strategy games require. Unfortunately, its tedious gameplay, repetitive mission structure, 
 and monotonous narration will likely vanquish the attention spans of all but the most dedicated 
 LEGO devotees.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Neanwyn
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 30, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Don't even get me started on the crappyness of this game.
  But I think when you get down to it there are really ten reasons that it really stinks. (Ps. The 
 only part of this game that's worth it is the little commercials in between the levels. and that's 
 only kind of worth it)
  
  1: Its boring
  2: Most of the objectives are unachievable by anyone but a genius
  3: The Animation is downright 
 awful.
  4: On a fairly minor note, the little phrases they say when you do stuff are repetitve and extremely 
 annoying if experinced in large doses.
  5: The Music is like this really annoying electronic pop.
  6: The Monsters and other creatures 
 are too easy to get rid of, and even when you do get rid of them, they don't actually DIE.
  7: The Whole system of play, (Limited oxygen even when you have the stupid building that's supposed 
 to stop that from happening, walls that you can't mine through with even the supposed "Big" Vehicles, 
 the fact that you need ten bazillion energy crystals to build anything past a teleport station,) 
 Just really annoys me.
  8: picking on a specific part of the game for a minute, the power station. why the crap do you 
 have to use energy crystals to power it? you have too crapping few already, and you can't really 
 afford to use them on other stuff, and then the rock raiders give it to it automaticly like every 
 thirty seconds, and you need the power station to build everything else so it's a neccesity. 
 
  9: the rock raiders move so friggin' slow over every thing but the "Power Paths" Which the friggin' 
 rock monsters destroy like ten of every time one appears before you can get your rock raiders over 
 and blow it up.
  10: the whole objective of the game is stupid.
  
  There you have it. ten reasons not to buy the biggest waste of time ever to curse the gaming world 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmhdude
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 21, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  Good old school fun, reminds me of ages back when i got my first PC. i lost the disc years ago 
 but finally got it on torrent. GOOD STUFF!! The graphics are awful now But this just says "Gameplay 
 over graphics" all over it. Still havn't finished it though and thats the only problem, the levels 
 are very long and slow! I would reccomend smacking the game speed to full. Theres not really much 
 of a storyline but it doesnt affect the game at all. The first person play is pretty cool regardless 
 of the lack of things to do and showing of the flawed graphics. Even though it is extremely irritating 
 at times it is Very addictive and has a good variety of things to do. Ignore first impressions 
 and your fine. 
  
  
  All in all its a great strategy game... (not to be confused with the PSX version which is awful) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TWiSTEDmerc
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Lego rock raiders is technically a RTS game. Technically because it does allow you to command your 
 troops and there are some (2) foes to fight off, but this is really far, far more of a explore, 
 extract, gather, create, and manage resource game. This is all the game really gets into; resource 
 management, those looking for action will go as bored as rock in this game (and you may aswell 
 stop reading here) . The game follows your Lego Rock Raiders who have recently smashed there spaceship 
 into an asteroid so you go through a barrage of missions to gather lost teammates or get some materials 
 (which is what you actually almost always what you do) so that you can return home. There are 2 
 resources to mine for, energy crystals which fuel your creations or ore which build your creations 
 ranging from any vehicle to any building that the lego universe actually has (in the set of Rock 
 Raiders) . The command system is set up for the simplicity of kids; you click on a individual and 
 tell him to do something (no group commands here) . This technique is obviously a mixed bag problem 
 / solution but there are bigger problems, even small tasks require allot of hallabaluga, and beyond 
 that; commands only input so well; that miner will do one task, give him another while he's doing 
 something and he'll just about never do it. I guess it has its own aspect of management (your gonna 
 want to fire the whole crew but you can't do that, nothing will get done in fact I don't even think 
 you can fire them) never the less, when nobody does what your saying and your about to lose a 45 
 minute mission because you haven't built something you should, all's you would like to tell 'em 
 is "do your god damn job!" So how in the hell does this game get a 6.5 / 10, well the visuals are 
 gonna glue your eyes to the screen, the sounds are god damn great and the lego creation characters 
 look like actual LEGO's and have all the character you could expect... just don't tell them to 
 do too much. The buildings desereve an honourable mention, while it takes a hell of allot of waiting; 
 when a builing comes together, it actually builds itself right in front of you and that truely 
 is fascinating no mater how many times you see it happen. Now the combat, you can train rock raiders 
 to use these beam force weapons but if a monster arises, you click the battle stations button, 
 and the rock raiders will take care of the rest (ARRGGH!!!) . So if you like cautious micromanagement, 
 love building all those oozing graphics, sound and cutscenes and just the joy of mining, expanding 
 and repeating such; take a look but be prepared for some trouble (there are some simple bugs too) , 
 action afflictoes you should have stopped reading a long time ago... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dstraats
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 11, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  People may say its boring after they've played it but the game is put together well, has the best 
 (meaning fun to look at and LEGO) graphics. The levels are always challenging and the freeplay 
 is great. it is a very reccomended game. From me. It is fun and challenging is actuially very good 
 for kids ages 6-or higher. It has vehicles, lego, toys, small movies, RPG style of building. This 
 game is long and will keep you busy and challenged until the end. THe first time i played it i 
 hated it because i couldn't get it to work. But as soon as i got the hang of it, it was so fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nat100
Rating: 7.4
Date: Aug 3, 2007 7:15 am PT
Review:  i like to play it from time 2 time. i played it when i was a little kid and now im playing it on 
 my better computer. it runs faster. it still has a lot of bug in it so watch out. i would try to 
 find it from a friend and not buy it or go to a gargage sell and buy it that way. i like to play 
 it. i like to play it. i like to play it. i like to play it. i like to play it. i like to play 
 it. i like to play it. i like to play it. i like to play it. i like to play it. i like to play 
 it. i like to play it. i like to play it. i like to play it. i like to play it. i like to play 
 it. i like to play it. i like to play it. i like to play it. i like to play it. i like to play 
 it. i like to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Comander243
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 1, 2006 9:09 am PT
Review:  Lego Rock rock Raiders is the most random game Iv'e ever played. It is ok graphics considering 
 it's Lego... and the levels are quite challenging. The game is good if you are very bored or a 
 lego geek lol. The sound is in time and you can understand what is happening. It is quite funny 
 when you see how it is made: (with the random setting and people) but it is probaly one of the 
 best apart Lego games but if you want a really good Lego game you should get Lego Racers, but this 
 is still a laugh :)
  
  (I had this game when I was younger) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
