-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Lego Indiana Jones: The Original Adventures
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/legoindianajones/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great offline cooperative play.
 Fun puzzles.
 Tons of replay value.
 Very funny.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lousy friendly AI.
 Respawning Enemies.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  4, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.8, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 452 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Developer: Traveller's Tales
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Jun 3, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The third time is the charm for Traveller's Tales -- logical puzzles and great offline co-op play 
 make this the best Lego game yet. 

  Now that Traveller's Tales has conquered a galaxy far, far away, it has set its sights on giving 
 a Lego makeover to a more terrestrial franchise. Lego Indiana Jones: The Complete Trilogy lets 
 you reenact the key scenes from the first three Indiana Jones movies, with a blocky twist only 
 Lego can provide. The idea of children's building toys pasted atop action-packed adventures may 
 seem strange -- and seeing a Lego monkey is rather unnerving -- but the enduring charm of the movies 
 is the perfect foundation for some small-scale tomb robbing. The surprise is, even without a nostalgic-powered 
 handcuff fastening you to these stories, the seamless co-op and clever puzzles should be enough 
 to draw even the Indy ignorant into the experience.  

  Like the Lego Star Wars games, Lego Indiana Jones is primarily a puzzle-solving game with light 
 combat and platforming elements. While the core experience remains largely unchanged from the previous 
 games, the puzzles are constructed in a much more intelligent and logical manner this time around. 
 Previous Lego games had bewildering sections that would stump even seasoned puzzle-solving veterans, 
 not to mention frustrate casual fans who were just looking for a Star Wars fix. Those tricky sections 
 still exist in Lego Indiana Jones, but now they have been relegated to the bonus missions. Though 
 you'll still spend the majority of your time trying to figure out how to open locked doors or cross 
 perilous pits, the pacing is never halted by overly complex solutions.  

           We named the dog Indiana.      

  Even though the adventuring is more streamlined this 
 time, the obstacles you'll encounter are quite diverse. Every level seems to throw a new trick 
 your way that will continually keep you on your toes. The most amusing puzzles involve the severe 
 phobias with which certain characters are cursed. Indiana has no fear swinging across molten lava 
 with his whip or leaping over spikes while being run down by a giant boulder, but if you put a 
 snake in front of him, he'll become nearly catatonic. The boss battles also provide a unique twist 
 in every encounter. From having to figure out how to hurt a man who can regenerate his health to 
 fighting against someone who won't stop jumping, these encounters serve as a fun diversion you'll 
 have to solve quickly, lest you find your Lego head popped clean off. Other sections have you using 
 elephants to cross mud, driving a motorcycle while being chased by a group of bikers, and trying 
 to get a monkey to part with some dynamite. There is also a nauseatingly awesome mine cart ride 
 in [em] The Temple of Doom [/em] section that, though brief, is quite exhilarating.  

  Though the puzzle aspects alone are enough to make Lego Indy worthwhile, the humor makes it enjoyable 
 even for people just watching the action. The silent cutscenes take you through the journey in 
 a much sillier manner than Steven Spielberg originally envisioned. No, you won't see the Lost Ark 
 melt some unfortunate Lego person's face, but you will see Indy's father fall asleep (because he's 
 old!) and even the Harrison Ford look-alike donning a blonde wig to deceive a foolish guard. The 
 humorous touches go beyond just the cutscenes; there are funny nods all around you. If you have 
 time to marvel at the decor when trying to escape from a burning castle, you might see a painting 
 of the Sphinx with a Lego head. Traveller's Tales also included a few references to its previous 
 Lego games. You can see soldiers wearing Darth Vader masks, Belloq mocking C-3PO, and a clever 
 homage to Hoth hidden away in one level.  

  It's worth playing the levels a few times just to pick up on all the references, but there is a 
 much more tangible reason than that: They are jam packed with hidden goodies. It's actually impossible 
 to get all the bonus items your first time. There are a number of different character-specific 
 traits, so you'll have to unlock Free mode to see all that every level has to offer. The different 
 traits help keep the tasks varied throughout the game. Indiana has his trusty whip, which can not 
 only help him swing across gaps and grab objects from far away, but can also bring the ladies closer 
 (and steal a quick kiss) . There are also scholars who can decrypt hieroglyphics, smaller-sized 
 characters who can squeeze through tiny spaces, craftsmen equipped with a wrench or a shovel, and 
 bad guys who can enter secret Thuggie doors. You'll be lucky to finish 50 percent of this game 
 your first time through, so it's overflowing with replay value.  

           She won't even smile in Lego form.      

  Not everything is perfect in Legoland, though. 
 The artificial intelligence is particularly awful. You'll need your AI-controlled pal to help you 
 solve puzzles sometimes, but you'll find your pal less than willing in a few cases. This can be 
 solved either by inviting a friend to play through the game with you (the best option) or plugging 
 in a second controller to move both characters yourself. Trying to coax the AI to do your bidding 
 can be an exercise in frustration, though. The fighting can also get repetitive, especially when 
 a swarm of enemies continually runs at you while you're trying to solve a particularly complex 
 puzzle. Bosses are usually protected by a troop of soldiers, making them more difficult to defeat. 
 Finally, the jumping portions can be very inconsistent. It's not always possible to judge how far 
 away you are from a platform, which leads to many untimely deaths and arduous retries. None of 
 the flaws destroy the enjoyment, but it's disappointing to see the same problems from the previous 
 Lego games rear their head once again.  

  There is only one difference between the PC version of Lego Indy and what you'll find on every 
 other system out there: the controls. If you don't have a controller for you computer, it can be 
 a bit difficult trying to maneuver with any sort of precision. The core experience is unchanged, 
 though. There are some framerate hiccups on lesser computers, but nothing that will hinder your 
 fun.  

  Lego Indiana Jones serves as the expected progression from the Lego Star Wars games. The great 
 pacing, humorous cutscenes, and challenging-but-not-cheap puzzles make this the most enjoyable 
 Lego game yet. It's not the hardest game, but it has enough hidden goodies to make you play through 
 more than once. Both newcomers and diehard fans of Traveller's Tales' previous Lego offerings will 
 find plenty to enjoy here.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Pangster007
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 14, 2009 12:43 pm PT
Review:  To be honest, I feel that there isn't much to say about this game. It's Lego. It's Indiana Jones, 
 3 films to be exact. It's a basic 3rd person, 'hack and slash' game which plays out faithfully 
 to the original films. Puzzles disrupt the linearity and pacing. The enjoyable humour is littered 
 throughout the game, whether it's the cut-scenes, animations or the vehicles and objects which 
 you can interact with. After you complete the game, you can replay the game with the ability to 
 switch characters. Different characters have different weapons (swords, whips, guns etc.) and different 
 abilities such as higher jumps, translating languages etc. The incentive to replay the levels though 
 is to pick up more treasure and to unlock secret areas. Doing so will give you more content to 
 play with in the game's 'hub' which is the academy. Presentation in both visual and audio is excellent. 
 Personality shines through the plastic appearances; Indiana is scared of snakes, looking like the 
 enemy can gain you access to secret areas, Indiana will even kiss Marion if they get paired up 
 at times. The game is simple and easy to get into but the developers at "Traveller's Tale" has 
 struck a great balance in keeping things interesting so you don't get bored so easily. Admittedly 
 however, playing this game on your own will very likely be a dull experience. The game really comes 
 into its own with the co-op mode; the game feels like it's meant to be played with 2 people. Sections 
 of the game require 2 people to be cooperative in order to progress. You can also hit each other 
 intentionally or not, and 'killing' waves of enemies with a buddy by your side is always good fun. 
 Be warned though that some of the platforming elements can be frustrating if one of you aren't 
 good at judging distances and height, particularly when the camera pans out to accommodate 2 people 
 far away from each other. Overall though, this is a good light-hearted game. If you do buy it, 
 buy it with the intention of playing it with another person. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slammers722
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2009 9:53 am PT
Review:  Lego Indiana Jones is a great game. It's really fun. I like how it's multiplayer on the same computer. I 
 love the new abilities. Every lego game has new things. Like the very first lego game Lego Star Wars 
 you could just run and shoot. In Lego star wars 2 building and riding was introduced. And in this 
 game the characters have fears one girl is afraid of spiders so when you make her go near one she 
 freaks out. Indiana Jones is afraid of snakes so he freaks out when he gets near one etc. Another 
 thing new to lego games for this game is you can use a whip, you can climb, you can decose acient 
 messages to get through the levels ect. I love this game but if you feel like it might not be fun 
 to you than rent it first. I have given this game a rating of 9.0 I would rate it 9.3 but I can't. I 
 recommend this game if you want to have fun in your free time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suratharajan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 4:11 am PT
Review:  its so funny that it changes the whole serious play and it gives us a lot of time to spare with 
 the one who is playing with us after contra this game really made me enthusiastic we have a lot 
 of bonus options and the most important thing in this game is that we are given same powers and 
 we don't have to fight for getting the powers and if there is no comparison of who scored the better 
 either the 1p or the 2p at the end of the game all the total points come to one ......... we are 
 allowed to go in through every three movies of steven spielsburg ......... god i loved it even though 
 the gameplay was a quite not realistic the ride through the game and the movie was very good .......... though 
 i was expecting the kingdom of crystal skull movie also it just came a month before the release 
 of this game anyways i always loved lego's building blocks in this game at times we are allowed 
 to build weapons or some vehicles if broken its nothing to care about and the use of bazooka is 
 awesome ............. and the collection of lego buttons are fantastic so this game rocked my summer 
 holidays............. HATS OFF TO LEGO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooyas
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 4:57 am PT
Review:  I played previous versions of Indiana Jones which are true adventure. When I first bought this 
 game I thought the same (maybe with slight changes) . However it disappointed me a s an adventure 
 game. The game is more arcade than an adventure. If I want to judge the game from "kill and go" 
 point of view, it is a very good game and it may be compared to other arcade games. However, it 
 is not comparable to adventure games.
  
  In Lego Indiana Jones you play as Indiana Jones, an archeologist. He moves to new adventures and 
 you should guide him through it. The story is the same as the movie series. You face enemies, bigger 
 enemies and level bosses which you should kill in order to advance. There are also artifacts which 
 you can find in the middle of the game and they will appear in your museum when you return to the 
 university.
  
  The game is almost it. Killing insects, gathering treasures, and advancing to the next levels. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seanathome
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  I played this game with my younger brother and by the time we completely it a week later, we had 
 laughed quite a lot. The designers certainly added a lot of laughable moments either while roaming 
 around the beautifully designed sets or watching the remarkably familiar cut scenes. The game also 
 allowed my brother and I to bond while playing the highly intuitive, multiplayer option. All the 
 keys are customizable, which allows us to play without our hands bumping into each other.
  
  The game itself is incredibly easy: all of your answers will be solved by simply destroying 
 stuff. Though I never played LEGO Star Wars yet, I definitely plan to because those game designers 
 sure know how to induce a good laugh and an enjoyable game. After the many hours that I played 
 this game, it really brought me back to the awesomeness of the Indiana Jones movies. You will not 
 regret purchasing this game! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  When the first Lego Star Wars game showed up in 2005, it was one of the most surprisingly good 
 licensed games ever made. The charm of the children's toys, the ability to play as a huge variety 
 of action hero characters, the humor  they all combined to make a charming action platformer. 
 If you have played either of the Lego Star Wars games, then for the most part, you have played 
 Lego Indiana Jones. The level design doesn't seem quite as tight this time, and the source material 
 isn't nearly as good as Star Wars. As the third Lego game in four years, the formula is also getting 
 a bit stale, charming as it was in the past. After playing through it, this is one game that I 
 would recommend passing by.
  
  The biggest problem with Lego Indiana Jones is the source material. If you are a big Star Wars 
 fan, then you may have been looking forward to the opportunity to play as Obi-wan, Anakin, Han 
 Solo, Luke Skywalker, Princess Leia, or any of the other dozens of Star Wars characters worthy 
 of playing heroes in an action game. Unlike Star Wars, there is only one strong action hero in 
 the series  Indy himself. Have you ever thought about how great it would be to play Marcus Brody 
 or Satipo? Ehh, me neither. The movies, in general, aren't as good either. The first movie was 
 good and the third movie wasn't bad, but the second movie was horrible. Travelers Tales has done 
 their best to work with it, but they can't make Temple of Doom enjoyable, no matter how hard they 
 try.
  
  The game features mostly the same level design as the Star Wars games. You punch stuff to destroy 
 it and collect studs. You button-mash your way through hundreds of enemies. You use all sorts of 
 special abilities to solve puzzles. The graphics consist mostly of simple, blocky shapes that get 
 the job done, but won't be confused with the Unreal 3 engine anytime soon (but this isn't a problem) . 
 You can unlock dozens of extras by collecting money and hidden items.
  
  The plan is getting a little bit old, and in this game, it isn't executed as well. One of the annoying 
 problems that the game has is infinitely respawning enemies. Almost every level has respawning 
 enemies, and they get extremely annoying when you are trying to explore or experiment. These games 
 have always rewarded you for sticking around a level and trying different ways to reach tough areas. 
 The enemies in this game respawn so fast that you hardly have time to do this. The enemies aren't 
 as much fun to fight as they were in the Star Wars games, largely because of the lack of lightsabers 
 and laser blasters. The jumping puzzles also seem touchier this time, and because if it, you will 
 probably die more often. Particularly irritating are the times when you barely land or walk onto 
 an edge and then slide off. The game also lacks a great vehicle level (such as the pod race level 
 in the first Lego Star Wars) .
  
  Travelers Tales still gets a lot out of the material in some clever ways. The puzzles have been 
 upgraded with a lot of new mechanics, such as getting a monkey to toss you a critical object by 
 tossing him a banana. They also make the most of Willie  one of the most annoying characters in 
 the history of cinema. Her idiotic scream can paralyze enemies and break glass. Let it never be 
 said that the developers don't have a clever sense of humor.
  
  Unfortunately, however, this sense of humor isn't enough to repeat the charm of the Lego Star Wars 
 games. Lego Indiana Jones starts a step behind just by being connected to Indiana Jones instead 
 of Star Wars, and it doesn't make up any ground with its less-than-stellar level design. Unless 
 you are a hardcore Indiana Jones fan or you loved the previous Lego games so much that you absolutely 
 have to have another one, I wouldn't recommend playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashultis
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 12, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  Well I popped this game in ran through the first opening cut scene and I am already laughing. I 
 throw myself into combat situations and next thing you know I've got somebody in a headlock and 
 giving him a nuggie. Now I am just impressed somebody actually would throw that into the game.
 
  
  Lego Indiana Jones is great for kids and adults (who remember the glory days of being a kid playing 
 with their Lego castles) . They took some of the most memorable scenes in Indiana Jones and took 
 a funny twist off it. They even threw in some Lego Star Wars to tie into it. I won't spoil it but 
 I've played the first 2 movies and I've found C-3PO, Chewbacca, and Luke Skywalker.
  
  The game is overall fun just smashing all the Lego pieces you can find, getting through all the 
 puzzles that get increasingly difficult, and then going back to the level to find all the hidden 
 items you couldn't get on the first play through. Second walkthroughs are always more fun cause 
 you can play and switch on the fly to any character you like (up to about 10 characters though) . 
 Each character has their own unique ability to solve a different puzzle. Some puzzles require a 
 series of character abilities to get the item you are looking for.
  
  Cut-scenes are so funny. This has to be the first game I've ever played that you could say had 
 dialogue but no words were ever spoken. All the scenes played out with simple grunts and facial 
 movements. It's quite amazing when you think how funny a scene with no words is.
  
  Puzzles are increasingly difficult. Some were tough enough for me to actually go find a walkthrough 
 to see how to get passed an area. Some of them you can actually figure out if you watched the movie. 
 I actually popped in Raiders of the Last Ark at one point because I couldn't remember how he beat 
 the muscle man in front of the fighter jet. Once I saw the scene, I knew how to proceed and finish 
 him off. I actually think watching the movies again before you play the game is a great idea.
 
  
  There's not much I didn't like about this game but here's a few:
  - Re-spawning enemies can get annoying if you are in search of loot and don't want to be nagged 
 by enemies.
  - Some puzzles were very hard and I have no idea how a kid was going to get through them. You may 
 need a walkthrough at some points. There was one area in Temple of Doom that had you jumping across 
 rolling cyclinder blocks. That was tough and can get frustrating.
  
  But overall this game is fun and I would recommend it to anyone. There's so much to do and lots 
 to keep you busy before you can beat it at 100% completion. Play the demo if you are not sure. 
 Great for multiplayer too but best to play the game with a good controller.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fighterpiliot
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Note: Review based on trial version
  
  If you want non- stop action and adventure this is the place to go. Even though the trial version 
 only includes 1/3 of the full game the makers of the game should sell it. If I got such a good 
 unlimited trial free than the game must be a real bargan! One small fault is that the multiplayer 
 controls requier a numberpad so you can't play multiplayer on a laptop. I havent seen any bugs 
 other than there seems to be an invisible sheild in the beginning of each part preventing unfriendly 
 characters from coming into the next bit. Also the camera effects are pretty bad so it is sometimes 
 difficult to se yourself. Finally punches seen to have an uncanny ablity to be far more powerful 
 than a whip. Bugs aside it is quite an nice game. However if you really want to play the mivie 
 so to speak you will be slightly dissapointed because only key action sequences are modeled and 
 the gaps are filled with levels purely from the imagination. If you are a fan of the series I still 
 rcomend the game. I think this game will bring hours of fun for any Indiana Jones fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wizard11
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2008 2:55 am PT
Review:  My kids and I have played this game for hours now. We've completed it once and are now going back 
 through to complete all the tasks in free play. 
  
  I am not sure which is more fun, playing the game or watching my kids hit eachother with shovels 
 and break into parts, only to come right back and do it again. 
  
  They've done a nice job following the story lines and letting us play through the most action filled 
 parts. The humor throughout the game is really great, we laughed out loud at several of the cut 
 scenes. 
  
  Playing this with a game pad like controller is definitely better than with the keyboard. If there 
 was one thing they could do to improve the game it would be to give us better control over the 
 cameras. The camera should always follow the charatcers' line of sight. This would make completeing 
 some of the tricky jumps a lot easier. Of course if you don't mind dying a bunch to figure it out, 
 then it's not an issue.
  
  The sounds and the graphics are fun and while they won't win any awards they are appropriate for 
 this type of game.
  
  All and all it is a good value and worth owning, if you you're a fan of Indiana Jones, legos, or 
 both. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devvy01
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 16, 2008 1:16 am PT
Review:  If you like Lego games, play this, if you don't like Lego games, still play it , because you'll 
 be highly entertained for a few weeks.
  Based on the same style of gameplay as it former games Lego Star Wars and Lego Star Wars II, you 
 will play thru the levels just as in the Indiana Jones movies having to work put puzzles, crack 
 rocks, and use your friends to get places.
  Starting out in the forest to capture the Idol you will find yourself basically playing thru the 
 level just to survive, finding the bonuses will come later when you unlock more characters that 
 are smaller, can jump higher and can throw or shoot bombs. Some bonuses will be obvious, some will 
 require blowing everything in your path out the way. Finding a friend with a shovel will be very 
 valuable of your journey. As you enter the cave you'll find another puzzle, the Statue of the Thuggie, 
 obviously until you finish the 2nd movie these won't be solved but are worth returning to later. 
 
  Once you've completed a few levels, you may be able in investing in the extras which will give 
 you fast digs, fast builds, stud multipliers and a whole lot more BUT to get these you need to 
 find all the mailboxes and post your parcels, only then will they become available in the Main 
 Hall.
  Along the way is the mini-statues made up of 10 pieces each. Once they are all constructed ,they'll 
 unlock the 3 special stages for your to enjoy,
  Oh by the way, there's some special characters you'll recognise if you can find them ;) . On thing 
 that will try your patience is the respawning enemies can get annoying but are easily dealt with 
 the your strength or shooting ability.
  Graphics and the sound are the same as previous games and certainly add to the magic of the Lego 
 universe .
  Now we just have to wait for the next blockbuster, Lego batman.
  Fun Fun Fun 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMooseman
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Indiana Jones is the second franchise that Traveller's Tales are bringing in to the world of Lego 
 gaming, the first being Star Wars. The fact that Lego Indiana Jones: The Original Adventures was 
 released closely to the new Spielberg film - Kingdom of the Crystal Skull - is purely to get sales 
 from the hype, as you will see no mention of an older Harrison Ford and his sidekick Mutt here, 
 but instead playing through the first three original films.
  
  The main hub area is Barnett College (acting much like Dexter's Diner did in Lego Star Wars) , which 
 has lots of secrets to discover and places to explore. Not only can you access the three main stories 
 from here, but you can purchase characters for use in Free Play in the library, watch cutscenes 
 in the theatre, admire your artefacts in the display room and more. Although you will not be spending 
 the bulk of your time here, thought has still been put into each of the different rooms and the 
 nooks and crannies.
  
  The game follows quite closely to the actual feature length films, and splits each one into six 
 levels. Although not everything is exactly as it would be while watching the whip-bearing adventurer 
 on your TV, it comes pretty close, all lovingly recreated in clever level designs. All the memorable 
 moments are still here, including the iconic boulder run and the helicopter, boat and tank fight 
 scenes. However, as this game is rated for everyone, moments such as Toht's face melting off have 
 been replaced with his Lego head comedically falling off.
  
  In Lego Indiana Jones you will never get tired of the puzzles that are presented to you. New tricks 
 are always presented to you, with some parts having you find bricks and assembling them to build 
 something, while others have you jumping on top of trucks and beating up any enemy that comes near 
 you. It's this wide experience that the game offers that really makes everything exciting and fresh, 
 meaning that you won't get the feeling of "been there, done that". Some of the characters you play 
 as have phobias, which are puzzles to solve in themselves. Indiana Jones is scared of snakes, and 
 you will have to switch to the other character and find some way to clear the route so you can 
 advance in the stage. Other characters also have their own weaknesses, such as being scared of 
 spiders or rats.
  
  As mentioned earlier, humour plays a part in Lego Indy. Although you will not be rolling on the 
 floor laughing out loud as you would be on an internet forum, the game will scuffle a small chuckle 
 out of you every now again in the no-speech cut scenes, ranging from the Star Wars references (such 
 as the knight's shadow looking - and sounding! - like Darth Vader) and Indiana wearing a girl's 
 blonde wig. The gags don't just stop at the cutscenes however, and as you play through the game 
 you will notice things such as a Lego interpretation of the Mona Lisa and Sphinx hanging on the 
 wall. Humour is hard to pull off in a game, but it has been done well in this case.
  
  You are not alone in any level, and you will always have at least one other AI with you, whom you 
 can switch to at anytime to take advantage of their attributes (or just because you like them) . 
 The problem here is that most of the time you'll just want to be playing as the star of the show 
 himself, not only to just constantly whip things for fun. The artificial intelligence in the game 
 is not the best, and sometimes you will see them falling down gaps that could have easily been 
 made. Luckily, drop-in/drop-out gameplay features a big part. At anytime your friend can pick up 
 a controller and jump into the action and help you solve puzzles. You cannot do this via a wireless 
 connection, but this would have been a pointless addition. The fun is having your friend by your 
 side and talking to them, working as a team to solve the tasks.
  
  Another problem in the game is the enemies that respawn. Although not a nuisance in all cases, 
 there are a couple of sections where you are trying to solve a puzzle and enemies just keep flying 
 at you over and over again, no matter how many times you blast them to bricks. It can get frustrating, 
 but luckily this doesn't happen very much at all, and calms down once you have got past the mass 
 of enemies. Finally, controlling a vechile such as a bike or a car can sometimes be a tiny bit 
 tricky, and leaves you feeling like it could have been tightened up. Although in saying this, the 
 problem is not constant and is only more apparent in smaller environments.
  
  Each level you play is packed to the brim with hidden goodies and secret areas. You will not be 
 able to get 100 percent on the first play through of the game, but you will instead have to purchase 
 characters for use in the Free Play mode, which gives you an incentive to pick up the coins as 
 you go along. Each type of character has a special ability that helps you advance in the game, 
 whether that is the bonus content or not. Indiana Jones has his brown whip, which allows him to 
 swing across gaps nimbly and grab objects that are out of reach. There are also women who can jump 
 higher, small characters who can squeeze through small gaps, guards with rocket launchers that 
 blow up metal and more. These wide range of abilities and concealed areas makes the game crying 
 out for a second play through to unlock everything there is on offer.
  
  As this is a Games for Windows PC game, it means this game will play with the Xbox 360 controller 
 out the box (providing you have the necessary equipment) . This would be the better option, as the 
 game feels like it was made for playing with it, and will make your overall game experience better. 
 Although there is nothing wrong with the keyboard itself, you can get much more precision with 
 the controller.
  
  Lego Indiana Jones: The Original Adventures is, quite simply, just plain awesome. You will not 
 have sleepless nights over the difficulty of this game, but this doesn't mean that some of the 
 puzzles aren't tricky to solve, or possibly most importantly; fun. Fans of the Indiana Jones series 
 will get the most kicks out of this game, but non-whipping veterans will still have a great time 
 here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Story: Your Indians himself. Play through the movies lego style
  
  Missions: Usuualy recoving some artifact. You have the same objectives from all 3 movies. The game 
 stays true to the movie.
  
  Controls: They are kinda hard to get used to bet get easyer as you go. Pretty good controls.
 
  
  Features: Legos, Awesome Platforming Experiance.
  
  AI: Seems pretty ok. Many lego men come at you at once. Im pretty sure it seems they work as a 
 team to take you down.
  
  Graphics: Amazing. Everything is in DX10 and is really just gorgous for a game about lego men.
 
  
  Audio: Good. There is NO voice acting. All the conversations are done with stares and winks. It 
 takes a little while to get used to just sitting there in silence but its pretty comedic at times. 
 The ambient noises and gunfire sounds great.
  
  Multiplayer: None
  
  Requirements: A pretty good PC, Like games made for younger people.
  
  The Good: Everything
 
  
  The Bad: Hard Controls
  
  The Ugly: Lego LLamas
  
  Replay Ability: High
  
  The Bottom Line: Another GREAT game in the Lego: universe and just raises the bar for the next 
 lego games to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inskipp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  You wonder how it could happen. There are better ideas, better implementations of technology, and 
 yes, *gasp*, even better story lines. (not many though) . But this simple game takes an old idea 
 and makes a really fun game out of it.
  
  The best part is, it's not just for kids. I bought this game for my 10 year old, and decided to 
 try it myself. The next thing I know, I'm obsessed with finding every little secret this game has 
 to offer, and believe me, there are a lot of them. Hidden around every little corner is a surprise 
 waiting for you.
  
  The game kind of has a "forced re-playability" too. Even though I've finished each of the major 
 story lines, I'm still only a little over 50% complete. There's stuff to do on each level that 
 you just can't complete on the first run-through, forcing you to return to find everything.
  
  It's funny too. There are parts when you just start laughing out loud at the way they took 
 the story from the movie and adapted it to the Lego world.
  
  I can't quite put my finger on why when I think about it, but I know one thing, this game is just 
 plain FUN! I recommend watching the movies first if you've got kids that haven't seen them yet, 
 it makes the experience all the more enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quaycomputer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  I've been a great fan of lego pc game series (lego star wars) . and this is another worth playing 
 game. The whole idea and concept of lego is very unique and fun. Don't you feel bore when playing 
 person based games all the times? Well, here come the lego version. It tweaks the game-play and 
 story a little, but I don't think it would be the case. In stead, it increases the fun. There are 
 some minor collision glitches in the games, but not that big of a deal since it doesn't affect 
 the game that much. The game is fun. LEGO Indie (which I prefer to call it) is a must for you and 
 your kids. It's fun, clean and very addicting. Lego is a great idea for replacing blood/gore and 
 violence in the game for your kids. No parents should complain. I'm looking forward to see more 
 Lego in actions. Happy playing :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 7, 2008 4:18 pm PT
Review:  I actually don't give 9 to many games, but this game is worth it.
  
  LEGO Indiana Jones does very well. Firstly, the puzzles are brilliantly imaginative and mix a number 
 of elements - building objects, revealing hidden keys and driving around in vehicles including 
 speedboats and forklift trucks. Then there's Indy's famous bullwhip, which you use to swing across 
 gaps and pull switches. The solutions require a reasonable amount of logical thinking, although 
 since it's primarily a kids' game the puzzles are never really that taxing. Once we even noticed 
 the game moving us to the next section after failing a few times - the most glaring example of 
 which was the famous boulder chase from Raiders. We fell down a pit three times and suddenly a 
 cutscene played indicating that we'd done it. We'd have liked the option to switch this off, rather 
 than being shoved through like giant babies.
  
  The best thing about LEGO Indy is its attention to detail. Key scenes from the movies have been 
 lovingly recreated in LEGO, and the slapstick cutscenes do a brilliant job of telling the story 
 without voice acting. You also get to explore Barnett College, where Indy teaches in the films. 
 This serves as the game's hub, much like the Mos Eiseley Cantina and Dexter's Diner did in the 
 LEGO Star Wars games. Here you can view collected treasures, explore interactive maps of all three 
 films and create your own characters. As in previous games, there are an obscene amount of things 
 to collect. Some are so well-hidden, you have to replay certain levels in 'free play' mode and 
 employ other characters to get them - using Short Round, for example, to crawl through small gaps.
 
  
  The bad things in it is the Al and the respawing of the enemies. I hate respawings!
  
  In the general a must have for everyone of any age! Puzzling, funny, impressive and a great offline 
 cooperative play makes it a must-have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: henrynarits
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 7, 2008 12:10 am PT
Review:  I always thought that Lego Star Wars was for kids, for my suprise when i got it for my sister it 
 was for every age, it was a lot of fun and it was a great game, still haven't finished it.
  
  I really hoped that Lego Indiana Jones will take that same elements from Lego Star Wars use 
 it and make it better, result... they have done it
  
  I'm sure there are many many people who will say this game is much worster than Lego Star Wars 
 and people who say better. There are some new elements, they have made graphic better, cuteness 
 are now longer and they even aren't boring, u can pick up almost everything and use it, its fun 
 to pick up guns and use them against others but at some points it will be annoying when u can do 
 only 7-10 shots and then u need a new one, just beating them up is better do now because there 
 are new moves what indy or others sometimes to. Maybe one thing what i don't like so much, maybe 
 others do, is that if u make a custom character then they all have whips. Talking about custom 
 characters then they have fixed that one to. There are more guns to use: rocket launchers, machine 
 guns, pistols and some others what i think is a positive thing. There are no droids but there are 
 many many places what need some things like a spade or something els so its always good to have 
 one and dont drop it, u can have one spade and one gun all the time with u. Many people complained 
 about the lack of multi-player, i think its one of those games what should't have one. Its a game 
 whats fun to play with ur friend, alone it just sucks, it has its moments and because there is 
 so lot to unlock u will have fun for many many hours.
  I think it will not happen but i hope there will be an expansion or downloadable content what gives 
 us 6 levels from Indiana Jones 4, it would be nice
  
  Its a fun game do play with friends alone.... if u really dont have anything to do
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scvido
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2008 1:05 am PT
Review:  Who the hell would've thought those tiny little Legos would actually provide such an amazing experience?!
 
  
  god damn, this game rocks (no i haven't seen yet the new Indiana Jones movie) .
  
  Graphics - Great graphics certainly better than Lego Starwars more details and extra textureness 
 brought the game to life, the water/lakes/oceans are amazing Shader Model 3.0 is given a work out 
 here and best of all i'm playing 1440x900 maxxed out framerates in the 150fps (E8400 + 8800GTS 
 640MB + XP SP3 + 2GB Ram) but my friends get the same framerates (maybe 10-20fps less in Vista) 
 when you're talking 150fps a 20fps loss is nothing i mean 120fps? smooth as a baby bum.
  Indiana Jones here is lovely to look at, everything oozes of quality. top notch stuff.
  
  Sound 
 - i was capture by the eternal music of Indiana Jones .... TATARATTAAAAAA TATTARAAAAAA....... classic! 
 however the music during gameplay is great too pretty calm when exploring and drammatic during 
 Action moments, LEGOS do not talk they hum and do funny voices and it works in the context of the 
 game, headphones and 7.1 speakers are perfect.
  
  Gameplay - this is Lego starwars in an Indiana Jones, that is..... you get the same entertaining 
 mechanics of Starwars except now you've got Indiana Jones to play with and let me tell you this 
 is waaay better than the Starwars stuff, it is pure adventure, crocs will bite yer arse, big rocks 
 will roll, enemies range from simple natives to full blown soldaten, there are puzzles too where 
 you must figure out how to open some door or find items by constructing stuff, it's all very seamless, 
 one moment you're fighting (big bazookas included) the next you're trying to figure out a puzzle. 
 top stuff.
  
  conclusion - 
  
  I fell in love at first sight with this game, having played the Starwars ones and thought they 
 were great, i think Indiana Jones is not great... it is AWESOME, haven't completed the game yet 
 i'm about 20% (trust me 4% is an eternity to reach) .
  
  this is a must get game and to hell with Crysis and other games, play this and you'll know what 
 real FUN is.
  
  Extremely recommended (sorry for the well deserved enthusiasm) .
  
  now i'm waiting for LEGO BATMAN! :D yay.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jesse-Fett
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 10, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  I havent yet completed it 100%, but from what I've played so far it is very fun, lots nice new 
 things.... Being able to start a level get some money and then just exit it and being able to keep 
 it is definitly one of my favorite changes to the lego games. The stud magnet, and money drops 
 from enemys also make it easyier to get true adventurer. There is no longer true adventurer on 
 free play, atleast not on any of the levels I played.
  
  
  Some parts that I didnt like are that its kinda harder in this lego game, enemies respawn once 
 the spots off camera, and it seems like every enemy shot hits you. the your AI party, is rather... 
 dumber now, they do not really help as much in some parts so you have to keep running back and 
 forth to switch characters so you can finish the objective. Frame rate can be a pain in the @$$ 
 time to time, but I think thats just my computer being a S. O. B., so I wont subtract points for 
 that.
  
  Now graphics dont matter much to me, but it seemed as if, the graphics with everything at its highest, 
 looked exactly the same as on their lowest.
  
  The one thing that actualy kinda ticked me off is the lack of video options, well not really the 
 lack, more so the video option choices aswell effects. on LSW2 the effects and video options were 
 perfect, you could turn off some useless things and be able to have the characters on the highest 
 graphics and still run with a good smooth frame rate.
  
  Some people are having issues playing this game, they are getting some emulator error which is 
 not allowing them to play, I didnt have this problem (not yet anyway) but I did have my own troubles 
 installing. At first it seems as if the setup. exe was missing, and that ofcaorse, made me unable 
 to install. After finaly getting the the installer to work it just froze up and shut down mid installation.
 
  
  
  I know it kinda sounds like I dont like this game. But I really really do, you should definitly 
 get it, but get it for the other platforms so you dont have to deal with those pain in the @$$ 
 errors, missing files, and acusations from your computer that you have illegal software installed.
 
  
  Sound: 8/10
  graphics: 6.8/10
  Story: 10/10
  replayability: 7/10
  music: 10/10 cause the indy theme kicks @$$
  
  EDIT: Now that I have fully beaten it I shall 
 continue a little
  
  Lego Indy isn't nearly as addicting as Lego Star Wars, it is also alot shorter despite it being 
 more difficult. One thing that made Lego star wars so awsome to replay was the awsome cool characters, 
 but on here the characters seem very plain and boring, though that does encourage a person to use 
 your custom character alot more. I did like the custom character options alot better in this game 
 than in lego star wars, though I was disapointed that there was no Bald option.
  
  I always thought it would be cool if every new game you start, the kits would be hidden in different 
 spots, just to make it a little bit more replayable.
  
  Latly the graphics and FPS have been getting on my nerves. Since there is no bump mapping, and 
 anti-alias translate option like in lego star wars 1 and 2, the graphics look very poor, compared 
 to LSW. (Rambled about this earlyier I think... too lazy to check) but ya Anti-aliasing and Bump 
 mapping were very important, they gave extremly good graphics at a nice smooth frame rate. This 
 new FSAA, and Edge AA is the new replacement for Anti-aliasing, and when you turn it on, there 
 is absolutly no difference in the grfx quality. Same goes with the Enhanced graphics and Texture 
 quality, having them on high, made no difference at all, except added more lag.
  
  The award for 100% is raining money where ever you are, but it is completly useless, cause by the 
 end, you've already baught everything... Buying everything is required to acheive 100%
  
  Some parts are abit difficult, especialy for a game thats supposed to be played by kids.
  
 
  
  Now for the lack of Anti-aliasing, and bump mapping, lego indy loses 1.5 of the original score 
 a gave it, making it 8.0 now. Thats pretty high for all the complaining about it I did. Its still 
 fun, but WTF WHAT THE MOTHER ****** were they thinking not puting Anti-aliasing and bump mapping 
 in, Your supposed to progress forward, back, and I meen back back. Like Lego Star Wars 1 had them, 
 and it was the first Lego Game, shouldn't have been the other way around, lsw 1 not having it, 
 then progressing, and adding it to Lego Star wars 2 and lego indy?
  
  Its bascily buyer beware for the pc version, dont take a chance on it screwing up on your computer, 
 and being unable to return it, Buy it for a console. 
  
  I am quite cirtain I will complain less when I get it for PS2 or WII.
  
  THIS IS ONLY MY OPINION 
 OF THE PC VERSION AND DOES NOT REFLECT MY OPINION ON THE OTHER VERSIONS. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
