-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/legostarwarstheoriginaltrilogy/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fun use of both the <i>Star Wars</i> and Lego licenses.
 Seamless co-op play.
 Longer, more challenging than predecessor.
 More vehicle sequences give better variety.
 Loads of unlockable content.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Camera occasionally obscures the action.
 No online co-op.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  8, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 8.7, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 1,572 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Developer: Traveller's Tales
Genre: Sci-Fi Action Adventure
Date:     Sep 12, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The gameplay hasn't changed dramatically, but better source material makes Lego Star Wars II a better 
 game than its predecessor. 

  Right around the time of the theatrical release of  Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith 
 , Traveller's Tales released the surprisingly enjoyable Lego Star Wars, a kid-friendly action adventure 
 game that inexplicably rendered the exploits of young Anakin Skywalker and Obi-Wan Kenobi to look 
 as though they were made out of Lego building blocks. It was a curious combination, but it worked 
 because the gameplay was novel enough, the combined nostalgia for  Star Wars  and Legos was potent, 
 and the experience was delivered with a humorous, lighthearted flair. Lego Star Wars II is an even 
 better package than the original, due almost entirely to the fact that the emotional connection 
 to  A New Hope ,  Empire Strikes Back , and  Return of the Jedi  is much stronger for most people. 

          t works best as a nostalgia piece, but Lego Star Wars II is good fun on its own.     

 
  You start out in the Mos Eisley Cantina, which serves as a hub from which you can access all three 
 episodes, as well as a counter where you can purchase extras like cheats and additional playable 
 characters, and a new character creation counter. Initially you'll have access only to A New Hope, 
 though you'll gain access to Empire and Jedi after beating the first chapter. The game hits nearly 
 all of the most memorable sequences from all three films, and it does it all with a goofy sense 
 of humor. Since the game will no doubt attract some hardcore Star Wars fans, it's also worth noting 
 that Lego Star Wars II seems to be taking most of its cues from the original theatrical releases. 
 This means you can expect Han to shoot first, Darth Vader to have eyebrows, and  Return of the 
 Jedi  to end with the classic "Yub Yub" Ewok song. They're all minor points, but it's the kind 
 of stuff that fans will definitely appreciate.  

  Lego Star Wars II is still primarily an action adventure game in which you control a group of characters 
 as they blast their way through enemies and do some light puzzle-solving and the occasional platform-jumping. 
 The size of your group expands and contracts regularly, growing as large as seven characters and 
 shrinking down to a mere two characters at times. You control only one character at a time, and 
 you can switch characters easily on the fly. Your artificial intelligence-controlled companions 
 are pretty worthless, save for a few specific scripted sequences. There's also a small loophole 
 where enemies rarely target droid characters, which makes it easy to walk right through certain 
 areas unscathed. Usually, though, the characters you're dragging around are there for a reason, 
 as there are several different classes of characters, each with unique abilities that you'll need 
 to progress. Jedi characters sport lightsabers, can perform double-jumps, and can use their Force 
 powers to manipulate certain objects in the environment. Regular hero characters like Princess 
 Leia and Han Solo pack blasters and can use special grappling hook points to reach areas other 
 characters cannot. C3PO and R2D2 can open special doors and activate certain equipment, and R2 
 has the added bonus of being able to hover short distances. Short characters like Jawas and Ewoks 
 can access special ducts that lead to otherwise inaccessible areas.  

  These character classes were all in the original, though they've been tweaked slightly. All nondroid 
 characters are able to assemble random piles of Legos into usable devices, something that originally 
 only Jedi were capable of; many blaster-wielding characters will now auto-dodge incoming blaster 
 fire; and most characters now have unique melee attacks -- it's great to watch Chewie rip a stormtrooper's 
 arms right out of their sockets or to see Lando pull off a rising dragon punch as if he were Ryu. 
 Not only do all these refinements make non-Jedi characters more useful, they also lend the game 
 a bit more personality. New to Lego Star Wars II are doors that can be accessed only by stormtroopers 
 or bounty hunters. Since you'll never have either in your party when playing in story mode, you'll 
 have to rely on special helmet machines, which will give your character the appearance of either 
 a storm trooper or a bounty hunter. It's a fragile ruse, though, because one shot from an enemy 
 causes the helmet to fall off. The bounty hunter disguise also grants you the ability to toss out 
 thermal detonators, which can be used to eliminate certain otherwise indestructible objects.  

 
  Lego Star Wars II puts a greater emphasis on vehicles than the original. You'll happen upon small 
 carts, landspeeders, and AT-STs that you can pilot in the action adventure chapters, though there 
 are also chapters dedicated to memorable sequences like destroying both of the Death Stars, fighting 
 off imperial forces in your snowspeeder on Hoth, and racing speeder bikes through the forests of 
 Endor. These dedicated vehicle chapters make the game feel more epic and break up the action nicely, 
 but Hoth has been done to death already, and some of the sequences aren't as visceral as you might 
 like. This is due largely to a stiff camera, something that occasionally hampers the action adventure 
 levels as well. The camera usually stays in a fixed position, and though you're allowed a little 
 wiggle room, there are a few specific points where it's easy to get stuck because the path is obscured. 

  There's no dedicated multiplayer component to Lego Star Wars II, though it does offer cooperative 
 play, and at any point a second player can just jump right in. It works seamlessly and reduces 
 the number of generally useless AI companions, but it's also disappointing that no version of Lego 
 Star Wars II features online co-op. Whether you're playing alone or with a friend, Lego Star Wars 
 II is easy. As long as you're pointing in the general direction, blaster fire has a way of finding 
 enemies on its own, and death is barely punished with a small loss of money. It should probably 
 take you around six hours to make your way through all three episodes the first time around, but 
 there's plenty of additional content to keep you coming back.  

  Once you play through a level in the story mode, you can play it again in free play mode, which 
 gives you some control over which characters you'll play as, and you'll find that each chapter 
 is absolutely packed with secrets and areas that you simply couldn't get to with the story mode 
 characters. You'll unlock plenty of additional characters simply by playing the game, but there 
 are others that you'll need to purchase in the shop, and still others that you can unlock with 
 a game save from the original Lego Star Wars, if it appeared on the system you're playing on. The 
 free play mode also lets you use your own custom-made characters, which you can build using pieces 
 of other playable characters. It doesn't effect the gameplay, but there's still something really 
 funny about putting Darth Vader's head on Princess Leia's body when she's in her slave costume. 
 Several different types of collectibles, an unlockable series of bounty hunter missions, and time 
 trial mode all help to create some good lasting value.  

  Though the game is appearing on no less than eight different platforms, most of these versions 
 are virtually indistinguishable. Featurewise, the GameCube, PlayStation 2, Xbox, Xbox 360, and 
 PC versions of Lego Star Wars II are nearly identical, and the PSP version is awfully close, though 
 it takes a slightly different approach to certain unlockables, and it also has much more pronounced 
 loading times. The current-gen console versions all look slightly better than the original Lego 
 Star Wars, while the PC version looks a bit better than those, since it can run at much higher 
 resolutions. By default, the PC version implements a kind of goofy keyboard only control scheme, 
 though its easily modified. Theres also gamepad support, and we found that a wired Xbox 360 controller 
 automatically mapped all of the controls to the appropriate buttons.  

          The character creation system allows for some pretty comical combinations.     

  The 
 Xbox 360 version has the most graphical flair, with better reflections, better explosions, and 
 a cool lens-focus effect that makes objects too close to or too far from the camera appear slightly 
 blurry. It's definitely the best-looking version, but it's also got a very minor frame rate problem 
 that crops up when there are a lot of particle effects. The achievement points in the Xbox 360 
 version are pretty well balanced. Youll probably get almost 200 points just by playing through 
 all three episodes, though there is also a string of achievements that require you to complete 
 entire chapters without dying once, which in some cases is no small feat.  

  Regardless of the platform, though, the visuals have a ton of charm. Getting to see recognizable 
 Lego pieces mingling with recognizable  Star Wars  characters and locales is just really endearing, 
 and Lego Star Wars II does it quite well. A vast library of recognizable sound effects and that 
 unshakably rousing John Williams score make the experience feel that much more authentic, and even 
 though there's no real voice acting in the game, some miming and appropriate-sounding mumbles make 
 it apparent what's going on.  

  As much fun as Lego Star Wars II is, it's unfortunate that it had to come second. Some of the novelty 
 of the gameplay, as well as the concept itself, isn't quite as potent as it was the first time 
 around. The original  Star Wars  trilogy just seems more deserving of this nostalgic treatment 
 than the prequels. Still, anyone with even a sliver of nostalgia for  Star Wars  will find this 
 to be a fun, good-natured romp.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (67 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 4:34 am PT
Review:  Now I know your like oh crap the bad man is back. Well guess what I am and I have to be hoenst. 
 This one is a great addition to the saga and no doubt even better then the first. However the problem 
 lies within the game itself. It is just boring after a while, witch is my biggest complaint for 
 the first one. Now dont get me wrong kiddies, this one was ambitious and was onto something, however 
 it just lacked that certain uummph that im looking for as a star wars fan. Dont cry, come on. I 
 SAID STOP CRYING! Ha ha ha. 
  
  Seriously this game is rendered with great graphics, and a pretty interesting story line. After 
 all it is star wars. However that doesnt make up for the fact taht it is just repeitive and boring 
 just like the first. It is somewhat of an improvement over the first. Non the less it just doesnt 
 do it for me and I dont think you hardcore star wars fans and serious gamers will find that I am 
 pretty much right on with this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnaX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 8:14 am PT
Review:  After playing Lego Star Wars, I had a very good feeling when I bought Lego Star Wars II. The first 
 game was great and there is no doubt about Traveller's Tales are the right company for making these 
 Lego games.
  
  First of all the graphics are just a lot better than people would think, the fact that you play 
 as Lego characters are just making the game even greater and when you put on a little anti-aliasing 
 the graphics are indeed up to date.
  
  The best thing about the game is of course the fact that it follows George Lucas' first trilogy 
 and it's a real pleasure running around in that fantastic universe.
  
  The game would have scored a clean 10, if it hadn't been for the fact there are no dialogue in 
 it. Only a 'The Sims-like' language and that's a shame, as the game are LucasArts licensed. I would 
 have hoped it could bolster the voices from the movies, at least in the cut scenes but no.
  
  However I can highly recommend this game as one of the better Star Wars games made so far! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jesse-Fett
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  I did not expect to like this game as much as I do. I normaly play violent grimy games like DOOM3, 
 FEAR and otherthings like that. I first picked this up for game boy advanced cause I had spare 
 money to blow and I was on a long boring vacation with my grandparents. I liked it so much I decided 
 to get LSW 1 & 2 for pc. They're the greatest games ever. In my opinion the graphics look superb. 
 Its humorous, has great end game rewards and hours of replayability.
  
  Alot of other people who think this game is just for wimps really dont know what they are missing.
 
  
  Its a real nice break from Halo, CS, Quake and other violent video games, Not all good games have 
 to have blood and guts and head shots all around.
  
  bringing you previously unlocked characters from LS1 is a very nice and smart feature.
  
  Bounty 
 hunter rockets rule
  The slave 1 rips every thing to shreds... errr bricks
  
  Lego city is the funnest part :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: henrynarits
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 4:45 am PT
Review:  Good: Lot of fun, many many secrets what will keep u playing for long time, u can create your own 
 characters
  
  Bad: no online play, it isn't so lot fun to play on a small monitor and with a keyboard, more things 
 into game and a bit longer, camera problems
  
  I have never played Lego Star Wars 1 and i started with 2. Before i got it i were sure its a game 
 for -10 year people and nothing for me but it turned out to be fun for many many weekends. Alone 
 it was boring but playing with someone els was better and u were missing online play. I connect 
 my computer with my TV and used logitech console ( what one what looks like xbox one) and then it 
 was better, im sure this game is better on consoles. I finished it with my friends fast but the 
 thing what was more interesting was finding all the secrets and that more things u found that more 
 things u unlocked.. still haven't found everything.. u can always use cheats or websites to find 
 them but half of fun is away then. Its a game what will keep u playing for some time if u are a 
 Star Wars fan and because its many many funny places.. There could be a more fun 1vs1 duel thing 
 but its anyway 4 shots and u are dead but they could think about it. There were missions were u 
 were hoping that they could make camera much better, one of them was Hoth but u could play with 
 it only it takes more time. From my point its a game worth buying and playing if u are looking 
 for a game to play with ur friends 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lemkeer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  Overall good game nothing earth shattering but it does provide entertainment for a few days. This 
 game has a short learning curve which makes it perfect for children of all ages. The plot follows 
 the original star wars trilogy movies through each movie and sequence. What makes this game great 
 that it is long enough to keep the interest of some of the more advanced players. Yet short enough 
 not to become sick of the game and just shove it under a library book where it will never be found. 
 this game is also great because unlike some of the past Lucas arts games this one allows the player 
 to operate all off the vehicles and animals from the movies in the game. If you get bored with 
 shooting blocks and imperial troopers in one episode you can just simply go and fly an X-wing for 
 awhile. Or reek havoc with a imperial walker. What every your pleasure maybe this game is a good 
 buy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Lego Star Wars was a fun action adventure game that hilariously presented the shenanigans of the 
 Star Wars universe exclusively with virtual Lego blocks. While strange, the game was considered 
 to be one of the best Star Wars games in recent memory. Lego Star Wars II continues the series, 
 bringing the original trilogy into its highly-effective Lego form.
  
  You start out in Mos Eisley Cantina, which, like in the first game, serves as a hub from which 
 you can access all the episodes, as well as a store counter where you can purchase extras and a 
 new character creation area. 
  
  Lego Star Wars II is an action adventure game where you control a group of characters, solving 
 puzzles and blasting your way through simple enemies. While you can only control one character 
 at a time, you can switch characters easily on the fly to gain access to their abilities and events. 
 There are several playable classes: Jedi, who sport lightsabers, and can use the force to push 
 things; hero characters like Princess Leia and Han Solo who use blasters and special grappling 
 hook points to reach areas other characters cannot; droids like C3PO and R2D2, who are able to 
 open certain doors and activate certain equipment, and short characters like Jawas and Ewoks who 
 can access special ducts that lead to hidden areas. Some doors can only be accessed by stormtroopers 
 or bounty hunters, meaning you'll have to rely on special helmet machines which let your character 
 slip past such defenses. Since you'll never have either in your party when playing in story mode, 
 you'll have to rely on special helmet machines, which will give your character the appearance of 
 either a stormtrooper or a bounty hunter. After playing through a level, you gain the ability to 
 play it in Free Play mode, allowing you to play the level with whichever characters you want, allowing 
 you to find secrets and unlockables that you normally couldn't find on your first playthrough.
 
  
  There are many vehicles in Lego Star Wars II such as landspeeders and AT-STs that you can pilot 
 in the action adventure chapters. There are also dedicated vehicle sections that enable the player 
 to carry out famous sequences from the movies which make the game feel more epic. The sole problem 
 with these is a badly placed camera, which usually stays in a fixed position and interferes with 
 easily moving through some of the levels.
  
  Like the first one, the game offers a cooperative play option, allowing people to quickly jump 
 in and out. Unfortunately, the game doesn't feature any online co-op option.
  
  Lego Star Wars II is an easy game. Most of your shots are assisted by some generous autoaim, and 
 "dying" only involves your character losing a bit of LEGO currency and then respawning. A first 
 playthrough of the episodes should take about six hours, but there's plenty more content to uncover 
 and unlock.
  
  Combining toy blocks like Legos with a legendary series is no easy task, and gladly, Traveler's 
 Tales has managed to do it extremely well. Added to this is the sound, where authentic sound effects 
 and John Williams' music make the experience feel that much more authentic.
  
  For players of the first game, Lego Star Wars II doesn't offer much new. But that's not a bad thing 
 at all, considering that it brings in all three episodes of the original trilogy. Anyone nostalgic 
 for some Star Wars action and who loves Legos will find this to be great, light-hearted game.
 
  
  Gameplay: 9 - Same great mechanics as the original, adds in more dedicated vehicle sequences and 
 the opportunity to create your own characters.
  Presentation: 9 - Drawing on a vast library of source material, LEGO Star Wars II is simply filled 
 to the brim with Star Wars goodness, all in a colorful Lego package.
  Graphics: 8 - Awesome presentation of the Star Wars saga in a Lego context
  Sound: 8.5 - Uses 
 authentic sound effects and the Star Wars orchestral score to create the perfect, nostalgic experience
 
  Value: 8 - While the initial game is short, drop-in co-op and unlockable characters and extras 
 will keep you playing.
  
  Final Score: 8.5 - This Star Wars adventure is one that no one, adults and children alike, should 
 miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboydb59
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 3, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Ever since I watched the whole original trilogy for the first time I wanted a video game where 
 you could live all those exploits. Lego Star Wars II finally delivers this, but only just, and 
 somehow fails to include or royally messes up many things, including the main ingredient a video 
 game needs.
  
  What does a video game need?
  
  A challenge. When you have unlimited lives no matter what, this is something you won't find. Sure, 
 the puzzles can be not instantly apparent, but when one button uses all your force powers, pulls 
 switches, cable-jumps your player and builds things with Lego bricks to boot, it isn't going to 
 take too long to figure out how to get through a level.
  
  But even without a strong challenge, the game could have worked. I mean, when you roam freely thoughout 
 the areas of Star Wars, how bad could it be?
  
  Wanna guess?
  
  -The game is focused on puzzles (one button puzzles, except for jumping and moving, and sometimes 
 attacking) and currency instead of the actual adventures. This can be best summed up by what my 
 brother said after I pointed out that Leia and Chewie failed to make a jump he had just made and 
 fell into an abyss. "Well, did I lose any points?"
  
  -The game is full of cheap Lego humor... R2-D2 falls off a landspeeder, flowers grow out of random 
 places, or Luke chops off C3-P0's head when trying out his father's elegant weapon for a more civilized 
 age. (More civilized is apparently right.)
  
  -The combat isn't there... the melee moves are pathetic, the blaster dodging is more pathetic, 
 and it would help a bit if you had a strong reason not to die.
  
  -The vehicles are a sad, sad downgrade from the last game. The only vehicle levels I played in 
 the first game were the podracing one and the Battle over Coruscant, and both were pretty fun... 
 especially the Battle over Coruscant's Starfox-like layout. Guess what... now you control the vehicles 
 with the same camera you control the people with. The Yavin IV Death Star battle would have been 
 great, Starfox-style... instead it's a yawn.
  
  The music is predictably fine, and the graphics are pretty good in a few areas (maybe not the crispest, 
 but fighting (if you could call it that) stormtroopers in the hallways of the Tantive IV was pretty 
 cool, that being my favorite scene in all six movies.
  
  The big question: Why hasn't this been done before? In serious, non-Lego form? Wouldn't that game 
 sell like crazy? Just look at the sales of the Battlefront series... they get sort of close, but 
 not on this level. Lucasarts needs to give us that game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axel_77
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 12:38 am PT
Review:  The first Lego Star Wars was released with close dates to episode 3 and was great. Being the first 
 videogame lego take on star wars, and being great, as well as being truly hilarious. So whats better 
 than one game in a series 2 unless the 2nd stinks. Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy is evrything 
 the first was and better. 
  
  The series new improvements are the fact that you can mix and match tons of bodies and weapons 
 and make something truly unique. Hey can anyone say Rebel Palpatine! With great CGI and comedy 
 plus smove graphics and tons of hours of replay make this a great game. There's lot's of bonuses 
 to find and secrets to unlock. Plus it comes with a movie viewer so you can rewatch those truly 
 hilarious moments like Luke cutting off C-3PO's head. I have to give this game a perfect maybe 
 it's because theres a game that both young and old can relate to, or maybe it's the graphics, as 
 well as maybe being the knew content but to me it's a 10 hands down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjadxt
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 12:47 am PT
Review:  Lego star wars 2
  
  Lego star wars 2: the original trilogy is action adventure with some kids portion. The first 
 part was solid game (certainly for kids) . But here is a question: is 2. share good, too? Or not?
 
  On beginning, maybe you&acute; ll be suprise: 1.) controlling for consoles
  2) and you&acute; ll be throw to the game without few words to story.
  You are playing for two 
 characters (but without mouse-only on a keybord) . Operating is trivial, but unfortunately you can&acute; t 
 use mouse, so gamepad is better. To every mission you enter with min. two characters max. with 7, 
 the characters are made cooperative, every time you want, you can change your characters for the 
 second or other or you can play with friend on one computer.
  
  Graphics is almost same as in the last share, like playable is the same. But novelty is that you 
 can (and you&acute; ll use) use planes in bigger exteriors. The story is from forth to sixth part 
 of star wars, whos is the main hero Luke Skywalker, the son of Anakin (later Darth Vader.) This 
 game includes eighteen missions. Like the past, the game has lots of characters (55, but you can 
 take next from the first part, so together 70-80) . The story is talked by video-secquences. In 
 spite of dabing, characters still are talking some funny things. In the game is lots of extra things, 
 secret places and other things, too. You could create your own character, but you can only change 
 how he looks, not his abilities. Good thing is, you have large liberty. Campaign without bonus 
 etc. you finished for a few hours, but you&acute; ll find secret places, unblock new charackters 
 etc. But since you even begin play this game, you must appreciate, this game is for kids (above 
 all) , which convict graphics, playable and you are immortal, missions aren&acute; t too hard on 
 your brain, you don&acute; t have to think how can, how...? many times, and fights are very easy. 
 AI your comrades and foes is unstill, one time they are covering excellent, one time they behave 
 like idiots. Graphics is nice in children style. Musics and sounds are quite good. Hardware requirements 
 are very low for today players: 1 Ghz, 256 Mb ram, na HDD 3,5 Gb, 64 Mb graphics card.
  
  Good:1. good playble and you will play this game quite long, if you will try to unlock bonuses.
 
  2. you are free (can do what you want-almost)
  3. lots of minuteness
  4. bonuses special
  5. good graphics and great musics and volume.
  
  Bad: 1. a little of news
  2. worse controling 
 (beginning of game)
  3. short play time (only main quests in campaing if you do.
  
  Lsw2: Tot is solid game, for kids, but it can be for older players. It is funny some time, and if 
 you don&acute; t do only bare missions, can it be quite long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BambooStudios
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  I've only played the PC version of this game and it plays extremely well. With a pair of good PC 
 gamepads it feels just like a console game. The graphics are simple, yet spectacular - the lighting 
 and shading looks wicked on the PC. The best part about Lego Star wars though: it's tons of fun 
 to play with other people and it appeals to a wide variety. I had a lot of fun playing through 
 this game with my girlfriend and in both our minds it remains the best video game we've ever played 
 together.
  
  In my opinion the drop-in drop-out co-op play more than makes up for the lack of online play in 
 this game. I'm not a big online player anyways, but this kind of offline multiplayer is something 
 that's distinctly lacking in most of today's PC games. Usually when a PC game features multiplayer 
 it's online only - sometimes it's just more fun playing with other people that are in the same 
 room with you. We NEED more of these games on the PC! Offline multiplayer is one of the hallmarks 
 of console gameplay and having more of it in modern PC games can only help to advance the PC as 
 a gaming platform.
  
  Other than the greatness of the offline multiplayer, Lego Star Wars II is also fun because it's 
 Star Wars; it's Lego. The story elements are nostalgic and retold in a humorous way, but I don't 
 think that's why this game is great. The same formula could probably be successful with any great 
 movie franchise legoized - and it probably will be when they release Lego Indiana Jones and Lego 
 Batman sometime next year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agordplayer
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2007 6:54 am PT
Review:  This game is easy and fun to play. The story is just the real movie only it has added stuff to 
 make more fun. One thing I do not like about this game is it has a sound glitch on my pc. This 
 game is just plain fun. You will only like this game if your a fan of star wars. The graphics are 
 not to bad. There could be some more special effects. I had a very good time playing this game. 
 I bet it at 100%. Lucasarts makes the best games. This is my 7th review. I hope you liked it. by 
 agordplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brun0freitas
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 10, 2007 7:10 am PT
Review:  great multiplayer!! excellent graphics!! well elaborated puzzles!! no have game over , all what 
 a kid wants!!! the multiplayer may be invocated or uninvocated at any time!! if a child get difficult 
 to complete a challenge, their brother or uncle may enter in the game to help and leave after.
 
  
  I have a problem after installation: cannot pass the first chapter from te first episode, the game 
 crashs. but ok after an update of the game.
  
  the lego star wars 1 is very good too!! I want to find more games like this!! if you know please 
 tell me.
  
  congratulations to developers!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 2, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  After its hit on the PS2 and Xbox, the second Lego Star Wars game comes to the Xbox 360, PC and 
 alot of other platforms to.
  
  Lego Star Wars may sound like a toddler title, but the game really packs a punch and has some decent 
 spoofs that are thrown towards the other Star Wars movies.
  
  Gameplay:
  You'll be able to play as seven different characters when you advance in the game, each one of 
 them has their unique abilities, like Jedi's can use their power for physics puzzles and lightsaber 
 battles, and R2D2 can unlock doors.
  
  The hit in PS2 and Xbox was the Drop-in and drop-out multiplayer co-op, it worked great, you could 
 play it together back then and you could leave and join in whenever you wanted without being a 
 trouble to the other players, but now it got in a pickle for this version because theirs friendlyfire 
 on, so you kill you're teammate alot, and the camera will get in trouble if two characters are 
 really far away from eachother, sometimes a teammate gets stuck somewhere and you have to backtrack 
 to him to let him be able to move again.
  
  Their also alot of maps from the originial movies, and you'll be able to play on vehicles which 
 is mighty fun, there are also some big maps where you can cruise the whole land thru.
  
  Graphics:
  Tho, it may be weird to see such simply phong-shaders getting on next-gen consoles 
 and high-end PCs, the lego actually looks real and interacts real with it surroundings, the animations 
 are one of the smoothest anymations I've ever seen and it just works great. Explosions and lasers 
 are top-notch for you're pleasure.
  
  Story:
  Look at the movies, DOH.
  
  Is it a good platform shooter:
  Its a great sequal to one of the best Star Wars games ever made, 
 give it a rent or something, its worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jetroe
Rating: 8
Date: May 26, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  This game was really fun. It helped with passing the time. I loved the fact that they can rip each 
 others arms of was really fun. It had great puzzles to solve, they were sometimes a bit frusterating, 
 but fun. I loved the story, it's not that detailed, but still good. Graphics didn't really matter 
 in this game, the fun took over. I got all the characters now and they are all very unique. Overall 
 this was a fun game and I will likely beat the game a second time, just for the fun of it. It was 
 worth playing. Fun game, Fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danglyn
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 21, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  A while back I bought Lego star wars I because it had gotten relatively great reviews from every 
 magazine possible. After I had finished it I was very sad, for it was a different experience from 
 other RPG's, a experience I suprisingly enjoyed throughout the game. My only regret was they did 
 not include more of the original star wars trilogy. A few years later my prayers were answered, 
 another lego star wars game, and it was the original trilogy. One thing that made me essantially 
 want to buy this game is that it was meant to keep your old characters from lego star wars I, and 
 there were a lot of characters (You will need to buy to unlock this feature) . After a few months 
 of it coming out I bought it.. After buying it I quickly realised the game creators had fixed the 
 co-op game bugs and pretty much improved everything that was possible. After some severe gaming 
 I eventually finished the main story, but much to my surprise there was more to come... In the 
 Mos Eisley Cantina there was a door that always puzzled me, this door had a face of Jabba the Hut 
 in a circle above it. After buying every bounty hunter I approached this door and it opened! Inside 
 are bounty hunter missions, they are fun and for every one you complete you shall receive a gold 
 brick. After collecting a lot of gold bricks you shall be able to build a lot of cool features 
 that include the amazing LEGO CITY. One of the first things you will build is a door inside that 
 gives you a challenge of collecting 1,000,000 lego studs. After finishing a few levels (i. e. Getting 
 the minikits, the true jedi and the power brick) I then noticed that under the challenges of collecting 
 1,000,000 studs there was another challenge that was blacked out before, but was now playable. 
 Trust me you'll want to collect every single minikit JUST for this. Yet again much to my suprise 
 this included the minikits from Lego star wars I. This was worth every penny and I would recommend 
 it any gamer, even people who never liked lego anyway, for this is irrelevant to the brilliant 
 gameplay that Lego star wars II has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gashoe13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Ok. Now, this game is a pretty darn good one. Short, no doubt, but a good game. I liked its humor 
 and weird looking guns and all, but it just hasn't changed much from the first. Sure, you can now 
 ride transportation and you can put together your own character, but overall, this game is the 
 same as its predecessor. I found number 1 funny, but number 2 utterly hilarious. TT games is still 
 working its best here.
  It seems that Tt games likes Lucasarts, so someday, they may or may not make a Lego Star Wars: 
 Knights of the Old Republic. Even so, this game is genius like its first, and very funny.
  What happens if LEGO Indiana Jones comes out? It'll be good, no doubt about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: David_Helmond
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 11, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Ingredients for a game full of fun: Take two of the best inventions men has ever made (being Star 
 Wars on one hand and Lego bricks on the other) mix them together with a doses of humour and voila! 
 You've got Lego Star Wars II. This game is a lot of fun to play. It is one of the only Star Wars 
 Trilogy games for the PC to begin with (and I'm not counting the pc version of the old SNES game) . 
 So if your a Star Wars fan, here's where the score count starts ticking. The fact that you're playing 
 in a Lego world is also fun, simply because this enabled the creators to put in small gimmicks 
 throughout the game.
  I. e. if you can't get past a certain part in the game, you'll have to look around for some Lego 
 bricks. If you gather them in a pile, than you can build usefull objects out of them. And if you 
 shoot of slap someone (it doesn't even have to be an enemy, lol) than they'll fall apart into separate 
 bricks, or, in case of C-3PO, you'll just knock off a limb and you can watch the character hop 
 on with their new disability. With these factors, the game is very entertaining. With that comes 
 the fact that the game has a long durability. There are a lot of unlock-ables and you can always 
 go back to a certain level, with characters you'll unlock, to get all the secret items. These items 
 are Lego bricks, and outside the Star Wars Cantina (more or less the lobby / main menu of the game) 
 you build mini-kits with these bricks. Without a doubt, this game will keep you occupied for a 
 while, and you'll have some laughs with it. Notice that a gamepad is recommendable. And look out 
 for the Stormtroopers in their tanning outfits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crorsina
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 1, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Overall this is a pretty good game. There are a few problematic areas, but the gameplay is fun 
 and straightforward.
  
  To begin with, I had some trouble getting the game to run because I have a dual-core CPU, but a 
 little while on the tech support site helped me solve that.
  
  You are definitely going to want some kind of controller to play this one because using a keyboard 
 makes targeting quite challenging, even with the amount of auto-aiming the game does for you. My 
 one real gripe with the gameplay is that lightsaber combat is clumsy at best. There came a point 
 where I gave up on using the lightsaber unless I absolutely had to. It is also possible to play 
 with two players, although I did not give that a try.
  
  The graphics are nothing exciting, even with everything turned up all the way. They do the job 
 though, and there are some amusing cutscenes. There aren't any camera controls, but all of the 
 camera positioning is very well done and it's rare, if ever, that you can't see someplace you would 
 like to. In a few places, this is used to hide secrets.
  
  The sound quality is fine and feels authentic to the films since it is mainly the movie score with 
 sound effects added. One of my other gripes is that the music volume and the sound effects volume 
 cannot be controlled independently, so most of the time the sound effects were too loud and the 
 music too quiet.
  
  It started as a value priced game and it's starting to be discounted now, so go out and grab it 
 on sale. It took me 42 hours to complete 100% of the game, but it can easily be done faster if 
 you try. After finishing 100%, there is not much left to do except for two-player, so don't expect 
 to get a lot of mileage out of this game. It's a lot of fun while it lasts though.
  
  I enjoyed the game and am glad I bought it. I would recommend it to anyone who loves Star Wars 
 or likes action games. It is quite violent, even though it's LEGOs, so its E 10+ rating seems a 
 bit low. I've played Teen rated games that were less violent. There are almost constant explosions, 
 wanton destruction, and even decapitation, so it may not be appropriate for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_dood
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 29, 2007 10:30 am PT
Review:  You can notice the game is awesome just when you start playing it.
  It's a game easy to learn, but it takes some hours (15-20) to get the game 100% complete. 1 of 
 the game's good is that after you complete a level, you can play it at free play with any characters 
 you want, which will help you reach the level's secrets. Another cool parts are the secrets you 
 unlock when you get a gold brick (you get 1 each time you get a true Jedi complete or when you 
 get 10 canisters in a level) for example, the LEGO City, where you have to get 1 million studs. 
 Another awesome feature is that you can make you own character, with different heads, hats, body, 
 legs, arms, weapons and etc... well i think this is all i want to say, but remember
  
  PLAY LEGO Star Wars II ITS AWESOME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BurnThisCity
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  ------------------------- MY RATINGS -------------------------
  Difficulty: Easy
  Time Spent: 10 to 20 Hours
  Learning Curve: 0 to 30 Minutes
  
  Gameplay: 9 / 10
  Graphics: 
 7 / 10
  Sound: 6 / 10
  Value: 8 / 10
  My Tilt: 8 / 10
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Gameplay: This game 
 is a guilty pleasure. LSW2 is definitely a game meant to be played using a game pad, and the simple 
 playing format is very easy to get into. If you have played the first one, you should find that 
 everything is very similar. You get 6 chapters in each of Episode four, five, and six, and the 
 first story run usually takes about 10 - 15 hours to get through. After you finish the first run, 
 you can go back to completing each mission to unlock powerbricks which are used to build the bonus 
 mission in the end and most can only be unlocked through the free play mode.
  
  As you run through the free play, you can also find power bricks, which enable you to get extras, 
 which are powers that can give you anything from dressing in disguise to money multiplier to super 
 zappers. Purchasing the ultimate power brick, which gives you x10 on all money earned, is your 
 goal for the later part of the game.
  
  There are a few bugs here and there as pointed out by other users through the forum as experienced 
 by myself. In one mission, you are to blast, using a cannon, some targets yet the targets never 
 get hit no matter how hard you try, thus forcing you to restart the mission. Besides that, the 
 game can be pretty fun if you can also tolerate the occasional bad camera movements.
  
  Graphics: The creators of this game try to create a more cartoonie yet realistic feel to the characters. 
 Alot of the Lego pieces you encounter in the game, including the characters, have a plastic-y feel 
 to them. For a game that comes in a CD the graphics is not bad.
  
  Sound: Nothing especially notable, but what's really annoying is the fact that you cannot turn 
 off the sound completely. There is no reason to turn on the audio since there's no dialogue in 
 the game. After playing the game for hours you just get tired of the gun-blasting sound... but 
 there's no way to turn it off other than muting your master volume. Quite annoying.
  
  Value, Tilt: This game is just plain fun, away from your usual RTS or FPS, etc. It gets tiring 
 after playing for hours but you will automatically be drawn back into the game once in a while. 
 Buy... or no Buy? - The game is currently listed for $30USD at some local game stores but I've 
 seen it being sold for only $16 somewhere yesterday. If you're tired of playing the same o' FPS 
 this is definitely a game to escape from your everyday gaming. But if you don't have a gamepad, 
 you might find the controls kind of weird since this is more set-up to be like a console game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabbi4571
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 20, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Lego star wars two
  
  This is a very good game. But then it has to be because I got it and my judgment is wonderful to 
 behold. The game has the Star Wars movie plot but in a silly, funny ways like Space Balls or Dave 
 Barry. The space ship levels are fun and not that hard, unlike the first game's pod race level 
 that you needed to have Jedi reflexes to beat it (and I did too but I only could do that because 
 of the reflexes I got playing super smash bros) . The game is just way too easy if you die all you 
 lose is some money and then not even real money but a kind called studs??? And then the only things 
 stopping you from beating it are some puzzles and not like the Wind Waker puzzles more like Twilight 
 Princess Puzzles, the kind I can solve in my head. Even if most gamers won't admit it, they can't 
 do Zelda puzzles in their head. After you beat a level you have to play it again in free play to 
 get another gold brick, but I do like the free play because you can change into any character at 
 any time to get to new places using things like dark force or bounty hunters or droids to open 
 doors. Things I don't like are gun characters are better now, they can auto dodge other bullets 
 when they are firing and they can do melee attacks. Now, the only thing holding them back is their 
 small jump but they can now do a jump and roll where if you jump twice some of them will roll and 
 in that roll if you fire your gun they will do three rapid shots. The light saber dudes are the 
 same as in the first game but you can get ghost characters that can't get hurt or seen. There are 
 three ghost characters: Yoda, Obi-one-Kenobi and Anakin. Yoda and Anakin have light saber styles 
 that are unique to them and there is a make-your-own-character part, it is fun. I made a dude who 
 is a Jedi and a bounty hunter who can use grenades but I think the one before Lego star 2 wars 
 the first game was better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cybro_Camel
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 20, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  The sequel to the hit Lego Star Wars, but everything is bigger and better.
  
  The biggest improvement is the way the game tempts you back for more with lots of unlockable extras 
 and rewards. Hidden throughout all the chapters are collectables that are unreachable the first 
 time you play.
  You then have to go back and play them with other characters to get to secret areas and unlockables.
 
  
  Pros:
  Fun game for the whole family.
  Lots of rewards and repeat exploration.
  Character customisation.
  
  Cons:
  May not be challenging enough for some players.
  No 
 improved multiplayer.
  
  Overall, Lego Star Wars II is simply lots of fun. You don't have to be a Star Wars fan to buy this 
 game, but you should definitely buy this game if you are a fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jack4571
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 19, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Lego star wars two
  
  This is a very good game. But then it has to be because I got it and my judgment is wonderful to 
 behold. The game has the Star Wars movie plot but in a silly, funny ways like Space Balls or Dave 
 Barry. The space ship levels are fun and not that hard, unlike the first games pod race level 
 that you needed to have Jedi reflexes to beat it (and I did too but I only could do that because 
 of the reflexes I got playing super smash bros) . The game is just way too easy if you die all you 
 lose is some money and then not even real money but a kind called studs??? And then the only things 
 stopping you from beating it are some puzzles and not like the Wind Waker puzzles more like Twilight 
 Princess Puzzles, the kind I can solve in my head. Even if most gamers wont admit it, they cant 
 do Zelda puzzles in their head. After you beat a level you have to play it again in free play to 
 get another gold brick, but I do like the free play because you can change into any character at 
 any time to get to new places using things like dark force or bounty hunters or droids to open 
 doors. Things I dont like are gun characters are better now, they can auto dodge other bullets 
 when they are firing and they can do melee attacks. Now, the only thing holding them back is their 
 small jump but they can now do a jump and roll where if you jump twice some of them will roll and 
 in that roll if you fire your gun they will do three rapid shots. The light saber dudes are the 
 same as in the first game but you can get ghost characters that cant get hurt or seen. There are 
 three ghost characters: Yoda, Obi-one-Kenobi and Anakin. Yoda and Anakin have light saber styles 
 that are unique to them and there is a make-your-own-character part, it is fun. I made a dude who 
 is a Jedi and a bounty hunter who can use grenades but I think the one before Lego star 2 wars 
 the first game was better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gonzcast
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 3, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  As a StarWars' fan i was dissapointed with so many titles about the saga.. I can only recommend 
 (if I am capable to doing so) 3 or maybe 4 games concerning the Star Wars Universe... Rogue Squadron, 
 Knights of the Old Republic I and II, Republic Commando and Battlefronts 2... the others weren't 
 so great as I expected...
  Then Lego Star Wars came to our world, I adore the idea of looking those characters in blocks, 
 how funny Yoda in blocks... so I started playing Lego Star Wars but I was quite confused when i 
 tried to move both characters at the same time, so i left the game almost inmediately... I forgot 
 to consult Gamespot ( so, do it everytime you encounter some trouble) I unninstalled the game until 
 i found the saga Lego Star Wars II, this time I wanted to play the game... in fact it was quite 
 funny... trying to get all the blocks and not to be killed... because it's very hard to reach TrueJedi 
 status with so many foes going nearby.
  The best of Lego Star Wars II is the idea, the concept is great, it's not too difficult, but you'll 
 have to change the keys to play in a good mode, and avoid a carpian tunnel syndrome in your wrist... the 
 cut-scenes are really funny, they don't need to speak is almost like deaf movies with Buster Keaton.
 
  The bad of the game: some difficult time to get all the minikits when you pilot a fighter or a 
 bomber... but no so much.
  I liked the game, I enjoyed a good time so I hope you'll do the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yellowinja
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 19, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  To put it simply, Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy is a kids game. It is impossible to 
 lose a mission, the controls are extremely simple and everything in the game is made out of Legos. 
 That is not to say that this game is bad. Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy is a typical 
 action RPG in which the player is either in an intense fire-fight or stuck in a room solving puzzles. 
 There are three basic types of characters that form the base for the numerous characters in this 
 game; characters with laser beams that can perform long range attacks, characters with light sabers 
 that can perform close range attacks, reflect laser beams as well as use the force (to confuse/ 
 kill enemies or to solve puzzles) and characters that are droids who help open locks. In every 
 mission, there is at least two characters grouped together offering a seamless multiplayer or single 
 player experience. When there is only one player, the inactive character (s) follow the controlled 
 player (the inactive characters will move to particular spots when a puzzle that normally requires 
 two players to solve is confronted) . The player can easily switch back and forth to these inactive 
 characters in order to solve certain puzzles. In a multiplayer situation, at any point of the game, 
 a second player can join in and control an inactive character by simply pressing the F2 button. 
 Only problem is that sharing a keyboard gets crowded and may annoy you and your friend. Characters 
 are already predetermined if you follow the story mode, but in the free play mode you can choose 
 any character youve unlocked through either playing a particular mission or purchasing it at the 
 shop (which is also used to purchase various other extras) . The money in this game is called studs 
 which can be collected within the game. They are incredibly easy to collect as studs pop out any 
 destructible object, but some items in the shop require a ridiculous amount of studs, perfectionists 
 beware!
  
  In particular missions, you can control vehicles such as the X-Wing or Millennium Falcon. Usually 
 the main goal of these missions is to either blast lots of ships or shoot torpedoes at shield generators. 
 There are also special ships that can be unlocked through the shop as well. The only problem with 
 the vehicle missions is that the camera angle and the controls just dont seem to work well together. 
 As I mentioned before it is impossible to lose in this game. When you lose all your hearts from 
 taking damage or falling into a pit, you lose some studs and spawn near where you died. However 
 there is an incentive not to constantly die as you receive a golden block (used to unlock extras) 
 by collecting a specific amount of studs in a mission.
  
  You play through a third person perspective in which the game controls the camera movement. Overall 
 the camera perspective runs pretty smoothly as it changes direction when entering a new room. The 
 problem with the camera is that you cant control it and there are some secrets that are difficult 
 to access due to this flaw. Another problem is that the camera angles are horrible when playing 
 with two players as the game attempts to focus on both characters. This usually leads to a sky 
 view which is bothersome in some particular missions. You start in the Mos Eisley Cantina which 
 acts like the basic hub to all of the missions and extras. From there you can wander around the 
 building to enter various missions and extras. You can also go outside the building to access more 
 hardcore extras in the game. You start at the beginning of Episode V, where Darth Vader (the villain 
 of the game) invades a rebel ship that contains secrets of the Death Star (the ultimate machine, 
 capable of destroying a planet) and it is up to you to escape with the information needed to restore 
 peace to the galaxy. The game remains incredible faithful to the movie franchise as almost part 
 for part is duplicated to create a truly nostalgic experience. The only problem is that those who 
 havent seen the Star Wars trilogy (those who are of a younger generation) probably wont understand 
 the storyline as the characters dont speak. They instead mumble and use sign language to depict 
 their actions. However the game does provide a side scrolling message (in Star Wars fashion bottom 
 to top) in the beginning of every mission so players who arent fans of the series will understand 
 the basic plot of the story.
  
  But storyline aside, there are plenty of extra goodies to obtain even after you finish the game 
 (which takes about less than 5 hours if you rush through it) . After finishing a mission, you can 
 access a free play mode where you can play through that mission again as different characters unlocking 
 areas that could not be reached in the story mode. Once you finish an episode, you can unlock even 
 more extras such as the super story mode where you have to finish the whole episode in under an 
 hour. With such bountiful amount of extras expect to spend about 20 to 30 hours if you are a perfectionist.
 
  
  In keeping with the theme that almost everything is made out of Legos in this game, this game looks 
 impeccable. There really isnt much to criticize about the graphics just because the designers 
 put so much creativity in the game. Even in the first movie sequence you can see the actual Lego 
 holes on the bottom of the Star Destroyer (the ship that invades the rebel ship) . The environment 
 is the only thing that is not made out of Legos, but it fits nicely with the theme of Legos as 
 there is a sort of elementary feel to it. However, there are a few graphic hiccups here and there 
 especially in the vehicle missions. The sound is taken from Lucas Arts, the designers of the movie 
 trilogy, so the production quality is top notch. There are a few new music sequences in the game 
 but they retain that reminiscent Star Wars charm.
  
  This game is kid friendly so there is no need to restart the whole game from scratch as all of 
 the missions are re-playable. The extras are the only thing worthwhile to keep this game for awhile, 
 but all-in-all this is a relatively short game for those who do not plan to collect all the extras. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoJo10
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jan 5, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay for this game, Lego Star Wars: The Original Trilogy, is fairly easy. Using a controller, 
 only 4 face buttons are used. They are used for jump, using a weapon, putting away a weapon, and 
 changing between characters. Most of the game is figuring out puzzles, like stacking blocks on 
 top of each other so you can climb up over an obstacle to continue on in the level. Gameplay is 
 very straightforward, there is only one attack button and when you press the shoot button, your 
 enemies ( usually stormtroopers ) , die. It's a very easy game to learn how to play: if you're looking 
 for a game to play with your grandma or your son, or wife, this game is it. There is a cooperative 
 option to play in any of the levels - there are always two characters that are playable, and you 
 have to use each characters special abilities to advance through the level. It's a lot more fun 
 to play with someone.
  
  The graphics aren't anything special, but for a game like this game, they don't need to be... it's 
 a lego game - the graphics aren't supposed to be realistic, they are supposed to be cartoony, and 
 cute, if you will.
  
  Almost all the cutscenes in the game have some sort of humorous spin on what happened in the movies; 
 also, once you beat a level, you can go back into the level and play it again as a different character, 
 like a bounty hunter or stormtrooper, and find bonus humorous scenes.
  
  The sound is good; all it is is a compilation of the original Star Wars songs.
  
  The value 
 of the game... well, it isn't really a game that you'd want to go back and play again after you've 
 beat it, even for the bonus material. The gameplay is very simplistic and generally repetitive; 
 by the time you finish the game, you'll have had enough most likely.
  
  I'd say the game takes about 12 hours to beat; it has a lot of mini-episodes in each episode, like 
 about 7 for each, and each one takes roughly 25 minutes.
  
  Basically, if you're that kind of person who is new to gaming, or you're into Star Wars, or you 
 want a game to play with someone cooperatively, like a little one, or mother, or significant other 
 or anyone, this game is the game for you.
  
  It's a great game to play with someone.
  
  However, if you're a hardcore gamer, you probably won't want to buy this game; you'd probably rather 
 want to waste your life away playing World of Warcraft, Oblivion, or Counter-Strike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brhisawsome
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 1, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Lego star wars is the second in the series of cute star wars characters.
  
  
  the gameplay is pretty cool. you have 
 your nourmal story modes in each level, but you also have awsome free play (reminds me of tony 
 hawk lol) in wich you can take any character into any given level and get extar crap. The rplay 
 in this game is just crazy and some of it is crazy hard to get. In each level there are a couple 
 different things your looking for but you may not have the certain character you need to obtain 
 it, so you have to come back in free play to get it. There is no difficulty level in the game but 
 i heard that its kinda like Sin in the way that the enemies evolve the better you are, however 
 i dont kno if this is true or not. 
  For a game aimed at a younder audience this visual elements of lego star wars are amazing. The 
 characters look awsome and the cutscenes are hilarious with a strange sense of humor.
  
  
  a pretty awsome sound track as classic 
 and uninspired as it may be
  
  
  the only two problems i have with lego star wars is first its camera and second its difficulty 
 and length. The camera can be a pain in the neck especially in drop in drop out co-op in wich it 
 is downright a pain unless you have cooprative friends. Sometimes you'll go in some spot and the 
 camera will stay outside whilke you attack invisible enemies. While this doesnt happen to much 
 it is annoying when it shows its ugly face. Lastly the difficulty in lego star wars is pathetic 
 i beat all the missions in 2 days. However, this can be downsized by tons and tons of unlockables 
 and things to find if you like things like that.
  
  
  sweet visuals, funny cutscenes, fun gameplay, 
 fun puzzles, cool characters, awsome unlockable people, and the mere fact that its lego who doesnt 
 like legos? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MHalliday
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 31, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  I think this is a wonderful game. I hope they make more games like this.
  I especially like the movies; they are really really funny! :-D
  I liked the funny faces they 
 make when something goes wrong -- or even when it goes right! (LOL)
  
  I really like this whole game. I'd like to thank them for writing this game.
  I hope more games 
 are made with LEGOs !!! :-)
  I think this game is Just Right for 10-12 year olds.
  
  Other stories that could be turned into LEGO adventures ... hm...
  How about Laura Croft: Tomb 
 Raider?
  How about Halo? and their little Grunts. (lol) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SR71halo
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 29, 2006 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Well, I loved to play with legos when I was younger and I also like Star Wars. I guess putting 
 them together in one game was a great idea because Lego Star Wars II is all the fun of both Legos 
 and Star Wars.
  
  The story is pretty much just the original trilogy of Star Wars with a few twists. The humor in 
 the game isn't so bad either, I actually found myself laughing at some parts of the game. You will 
 be able to play through many different levels from all three movies. The levels are surprisingly 
 long and there is plenty to do in each one such as collecting money and other bonuses.
  
  Free play is pretty fun too. It's pretty much the same as story mode but you can play as more given 
 characters than story including two of your customized characters. That's right, you can build 
 your own characters for free play such as a bounty hunter, a jedi, a soldier, etc.
  
  This game is surprisingly a good game for Star Wars fans, Lego lovers, or even for those of you 
 just looking for a great action/adventure game. You will have plenty of fun playing this game, 
 I reccomend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitu123
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 22, 2006 7:14 pm PT
Review:  As a sequel to the award winning LEGO Star Wars game, LEGO Star Wars II includes extra features 
 such as assembling panels, parts of an AT-ST, and more, and also purple LEGO studs that are 10,000 
 LEGO Studs for each one of those you touch and riding on Dewbacks and Banthas. I was very excited 
 when I played LEGO Star Wars: The Video Game on XBOX. The game includes some must have Star Wars 
 Characters into LEGOs such as my most played character named Bossk because I like his crocodile 
 smile. Some Star Wars Characters were excellently rendered in LEGOs while some of them were poorly 
 portrayed. LEGO Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy has the ability of importing Characters from 
 LEGO Star Wars: The Video Game and play as them in this sequel. Another new feature that LEGO Star 
 Wars II: The Original Trilogy has is making Custom Characters. Although, the Character Customization 
 is limited even if you have unlocked and purchased every character. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sarcadoz
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 8, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Think about hilarious LEGO people acting like your favorite characters from the 'old series' of 
 Star Wars. That's what you get in LEGO Star Wars II which is a fine mix of homage and parody.
 
  
  In advance, I have to mention that I didn't play the predecessor yet so I will rate it as a single 
 game instead of a sequel.
  
  Basically you play through episodes 4-6 of Star Wars just like we used to see it in the movies. 
 Therefore it has a certain appeal to a generation influenced by the earlier pictures even if many 
 younger gamers will label it as 'childish'. The vast amount of characters and scenes you will recognize 
 speaks for itself. Furthermore all of this is taking place in the joyful world of LEGO and the 
 number of jokes and humorous scenes you will experience is simply incredible.
  
  From a 3D perspective you move your character through a colorful world using a simple (what do 
 you expect, it's LEGO!) yet convincing graphics engine where all the character animations and moves 
 fluently fit into the mood of the game. I can heavily reccommend using a control pad with an analog 
 stick as this gives you much more control over the movement of your character. Speaking of which, 
 the controls are simple so you quickly get the hang of it and can focus on the gameplay. The auto-targeting 
 system helps you with aiming at your enemies 'tho it's also possible to accidentially hit your 
 team mates.
  
  Every person you play behaves different and provides you with a different set of skills (like force-move, 
 double-jump, dodge,...) so you will have to rely on more than just one player character to get 
 through the game; especially when it comes to free play mode where you really need every single 
 skill available to find all of the hidden goodies and extras. These back the game up with some 
 replay value although the procedure of jumping, smashing and collecting gets quite repetitive after 
 a while.
  
  The weapons available mostly consist of a blaster, a lightsabre and some hand-to-hand combat which 
 is limited but not really much of a drawback.
  
  On the topic of sound, it features the great soundtrack of the original movies. Apart from that 
 it's less dialogue, more fun. There is little voice acting but exactly this complements the funny 
 cutscenes.
  
  There are only few stability issues on the PC version yet I encountered an annoying sound problem 
 I wasn't able to fix. After a few minutes of playing the background music begins to stutter and 
 the game crashes shortly after. Neither changing graphics settings nor all of the other possible 
 steps like updating the game, sound drivers or adapting directx audio acceleration could change 
 this so I simply was forced to turn it off completely.
  
  Once more I can really reccommend this game to all the fans of the original Star Wars episodes. 
 The dynamic gameplay and the humorous mood will keep your attention for some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Defender_502
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 4, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy continued the trend started with Lego Star Wars, and 
 applied it to the original trilogy.
  
  Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy was essentially identical to its predecessor, the key 
 differences being the playable characters and the settings of the videogame.
  
  At its heart, Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy took two incredible properties, namely 
 Legos and Star Wars, and combined them in what can only be described as a fanboy's dream. Following 
 the successful release of Lego Star Wars, the next logical step was to produce a videogame featuring 
 the settings from the original trilogy.
  
  Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy allowed the player to essentially play the scenes from 
 the final three films in a Lego setting. Everything appeared to have been built out of Legos, and 
 when destroyed appeared as a pile of Legos. Jedi characters could even use the Force to form piles 
 of Legos into useful items like platforms.
  
  The videogame game allowed the player to switch between any allied characters on the screen, as 
 different characters had different abilities which would have to be called upon in order to advance 
 through the levels; for example, droids were necessary to open many doors.
  
  Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy was clearly designed for children; the puzzles were simplistic 
 and the player was granted infinite lives which assured game completion. However, the game was 
 still a joy to play for the older generations, raised on Star Wars and Legos alike, in the days 
 before Episodes I, II, and III, who yearned for the two properties to be combined. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigethan
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 30, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  This is a review of this game through the co-op mode. I didn't touch the single player mode.
  
  The content is what makes this game fun. Leia slapping people around, kicking ass with Fett, 
 Lando being smooth. It's just fun. Playing with a buddy is a good time too, you get to mock whatever 
 there character is, and make other star wars based jokes. And all the characters are very well 
 designed and have a lot of polish, so it's a very immersive atmosphere.
  
  But...
  
  The game suffers from being too easy to complete while simultaneously being impossible to complete 
 100% without a game guide. We'd plow through a level pretty quickly, but then realize that we missed 
 a ton of stuff. So you go back and have to go over everything with a fine tooth comb. Not that 
 fun at all. So yeah, once the enjoyment of the star wars world wears off of and you're just using 
 a walkthrough to get 'bolts' so that you can buy more characters, the thrill is pretty much gone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: --ZyoX
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 28, 2006 8:44 am PT
Review:  This is the third LEGO game I've played, followed by LEGO Racers 2 and LEGO Star Wars: The Video 
 Game.
  It's quite fun, but does not last very long.
  
  Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy is the name of the game. In this sequel, you play through 
 A New Hope, The Empire Strikes Back &amp; Return of the Jedi as the characters of the movies. The 
 premise is exactly the same as the first game: you navigate through the levels, shooting or striking 
 down enemies while doing some platform jumping and puzzle solving.
  Although the premise is the same, the gameplay has been tweaked up a little bit since the first 
 installment. You now have the ability to ride the vehicles you build with your Legos (X-Wings, 
 TIE Fighters, the Millennium Falcon) or, in some cases, the beasts that lurk around. This is a 
 neat addition, but the vehicle riding can get really clunky at times. The camera angle is very 
 bad in some instances and hinders the gameplay a lot.
  
  You start the game off in the Mos Eisley Cantina. This is where you'll get to select your missions, 
 buy your characters and vehicles and build your Lego City with the golden blocks you'll have picked 
 up in your missions or bought at the store. Also located in the Cantina is a machine where you 
 can build your own custom-made character. Example: You can put Chewie's head on Vader's body, and 
 so on and so forth. This is a pretty cool feature and you'll have fun just seeing what the game 
 comes up with when it automatically mixes up the pieces.
  I really liked that new feature.
  
  The story is a little longer than in the first game, but you can still finish it under 10-12 
 hours. Of course, if you want to complete 100% of the game, you can go back and do the Bounty Hunter 
 missions and use other characters to reach certain places you couldn't go during your first play 
 through. There is still co-op gameplay here... but not online, which is a damn shame, but it's 
 alright anyway.
  
  The graphics are pretty stunning for this type of game. You'll see light reflect off of the characters, 
 just like it would for a Lego figurine. The colors are sharp and the explosions are very well done. 
 There are a couple of framerate issues here, especially when there are a lot of things happening 
 onscreen, but nothing too major.
  The sound is pretty awesome and is what you'd expect from any Star Wars game. But as I said, the 
 gameplay does not last very long. It's still a game worth playing though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zimrules
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 23, 2006 8:31 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game at a store not that far away, not that long ago. I haven't beaten it yet, but 
 so far I am addicted. I'm playing on the PSP and the graphics are almost exactly the same as home 
 consoles with the exception of a few small textures here and there. I wouldn't worry too much about 
 that because once you pick this game up, you'll be having too much fun to even care! The controls 
 are very responsive. This is very helpful when you have to calculate how far a distance you must 
 jump from one platform to another. The controls for the various vehicles in the game are fairly 
 decent. This applies mainly to to wheeled contraptions. This isn't much of a problem with x-wings, 
 and other ships though. Another thing that makes gameplay more fun is the wide range of characters 
 that you can play as. The selection ranges from lowly gonk droids, to stronger characters like 
 Darth Maul! Last but definitely not least, is the gameplay. The gameplay might get a little repetitive 
 in between the puzzles and fights. For the most part however, you will be too busy hacking and 
 slashing to even care. This game is much longer and more challenging than its predeccesor, and 
 is obviously directed at an older audience. Not to say that it isn't suitable for younger gamers. 
 Lego Starwars is a game that any true gamer can enjoy. If you get this game, then you will spend 
 many happy hours laughing your head off at this fun title. This is easily one of my favorite games 
 for the PSP, but I'm sure it would be great on any platform! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmvillafana
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 20, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  The game is straight forward with just the right challenge for children from 5 to maybe 10. The 
 storyline is close to the films so my kid has had a number of clues from the film to solve the 
 game. Each of the chapters has a straight forward link with the movie and provides a easy way to 
 help youngsters stop from playing and they leave feeling that they have accomplished something.
 
  Saving the game is difficult and the interface at the Pub could be improved.
  Sound and music could be improved in the cut scenes between chapters, and tutorial hints of use 
 for buttons are criptic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itpontius
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 16, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  LS2 is a fateful copy off the old one. This one is on the last three movies (4,5,6) . This one still 
 has all the good things but has cut out most of the problems. You can use even more characters 
 on this game and the videos are still funny. Blaster characters now have a chance against Jedi 
 characters. The blaster characters now have direct attacks (punching, kicking, slapping, pulling 
 own head off and hitting them with that) and have own dive attacks. The storm troopers are fun 
 to watch. Normal characters can now make Lego things with the same effects they have on the ads 
 (super fast building) . You can even make your own character. On this game, you can use your mini-kits 
 and drive them around in special levels. Your goal in this game is to collect golden bricks. There 
 are now purple bricks that appear in bonus levels, which are invaluable if you wish to win. If 
 you want a funny, fun, challenging but straightforward game that will keep you playing for hours, 
 this is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saw100
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 16, 2006 9:11 am PT
Review:  First of all, I must say that gameplay hasn't changed one stinking point. It's just the same hack 
 'n' slash without fearing of getting killed. I don't see what's so much fun in that. Don't get 
 me wrong, I know that this game has got puzzles, but they all are pretty easy. And your allies 
 are not smart, they just keep following you even if you'd jump off from a top of the tower. Graphics 
 are great, but they just don't fit in Star Wars style. Musics have also gone bad, too. Previous 
 Lego SW had got real, heroic Star Wars music (example Darth Maul fight) . But there is one thing 
 better than the first one: more and better characters, that's for sure.
  
  Lego SW 2 is a fun game for those who just like to fight, especially for children. Otherwise, it 
 won't offer so much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riggs8595
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2006 4:48 pm PT
Review:  this game rocks hard core!!! its really, really, really, fun! i like being luke skywalker, hes 
 real good. theres also lots of fun missions! espically the first mission. but the really funny 
 thing is that you see lots of naked clone troopers how funny is that. but the game is real easy. 
 its just like the first one but a lot more freakin stuff to do and new worlds. han solo isint that 
 bad either. hes good in the game. the wierd thing to me is princess lie slaps people. lol! my favorite 
 mission is the last mission. luke, he is pretty much the best character in the game. so if you 
 are a star wars fan, this is a game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 6, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  The first Lego Star Wars is one of the most pleasant surprises of the past few years. It was a 
 great game, because it combined charming humor with two great properties  Lego and Star Wars. 
 The game was easy to pick up and play, and the level design was solid. Making this sequel was a 
 no-brainer, and if you liked the first game, buying the sequel is a no-brainer too. The game has 
 the same style and light-hearted retelling of Star Wars that made the first one so much fun, and 
 it has a few new features and improvements added in. The game follows almost exactly the same basic 
 formula as the first one. Its simple platforming, combat, destroying objects for money, and exploration 
 for secrets. You play through each level at least once on story mode, and that unlocks freeplay 
 mode, which allows you to replay levels with any character that you have unlocked. The Lego Star 
 Wars games arent very hard, since all that happens when you die is that you lose a bit of money. 
 That makes it a great game to just fire up, lean back, and relax with. Its nothing groundbreaking, 
 the gameplay is very enjoyable, provided you have reasonable expectations for it. If theres a 
 drawback to this design, its that the game gets repetitive, despite its solid level design. The 
 gameplay combines with humor and charm to make a uniquely memorable experience. The Star Wars story 
 is retold through dialog-less, and often hilarious cutscenes. Before these games came out, I dont 
 think that anybody would have predicted such a successful marriage between Lego and Star Wars, 
 but the combination is ideal for a game.
  
  Lego Star Wars 2 sports a few improvements over the first game. Perhaps the best is that the characters 
 are better balanced, so that laser blaster characters like Han Solo and Princess Leia can fight 
 as well as lightsaber-wielding characters like Obi wan Kenobi. Some of the other improvements though, 
 like the create your own character feature, dont add much value. I enjoyed this game, but not 
 quite as much as the first one, for a couple of reasons. Namely, the vehicle levels arent much 
 fun, and getting 100% complete is more of a nuisance this time. Vehicle controls arent all that 
 tight, and youll often find yourself destroying your vehicle because you run into something that 
 you couldnt see, or because you have trouble getting away from a wall. The game gives you incentive 
 to gather as many studs as possible and collect all the Lego canisters, but you have to do a lot 
 more of it to get 100% complete for the game this time. You also have to go through each chapter 
 an extra time on fast mode. Overall, to finish the game completely, youll have to play through 
 every level at least three times and as many as five or six. Some of the levels are quite long 
 too. The Mos Eisley cantina level takes half on hour. Thus, the game starts to get tedious after 
 a while. I quit playing after about 15 hours or so, having completed the story mode and a few levels 
 on Freeplay. If you want to stick with it though, youll find tons of stuff to unlock, even more 
 than the first game.
  
  Graphics and audio-wise, its pretty much the same as the first game. Lego Star Wars II doesnt 
 mess much with the formula that made the first game so great. The source material is definitely 
 better, although I liked the gameplay in the first one slightly more. Plus, the formula isnt as 
 original anymore. Regardless, this game is easy to recommend to fans of either Lego or Star Wars. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Macpoule
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2006 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Lego Star Wars II
  
  Graphics- Lego Star Wars II can not have realistic graphics like Unreal Tournament 2007 because 
 it is Lego graphics. It needs to be simpled colored graphics.
  
  Sound- The sounds and music are well recorded. We are familiar with those because it is Star Wars. Most 
 of the music and sounds are good.
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay is the thing you will find the worst. I found it hard to play on the keyboard 
 but with a gamepad, it works well. It is still an enjoyable game.
  
  Value- The game has a really good value. What is fun about it is that there are tons of things 
 to unlock. Each chapter in story mode may range between 15-45 minutes, if it is the first time 
 you do the chapter, so it is pretty long. Unlocking the unlockables also expands the play time.
 
  
  Tilt- Lego Star Wars II's tilt is really good with the great storyline of the original Star Wars. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toa_cookie52
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 27, 2006 10:14 pm PT
Review:  LEGO Star Wars was a 2005 game merging LEGO together with possibly the best movie series ever, 
 Star Wars. LEGO Star Wars was a success. The bad thing is that it spoiled Episode III for buyers, 
 since Episode III was'nt out yet.
  
  LEGO Star Wars II continues the original game, following the prequel trilogy.
  Spoiler-free and 
 totally suitable for you (r) kids.
  
  First of all, it looks totally impressive. Its loaded with explosion. Wanna break a door? Make 
 it go boom with a blaster or thermal detonator. Hit a droid (well, not as much droids to see) and 
 see it go boom. Plastic reflections, what you CAN see in real life. Characters are animated beautifully.
 
  
  Gameplay is simple. What your modern time platform games would have. Jump, attack, special moves. 
 Its basic stuff.
  
  Sounds are taken from games and movies. No dialogue, which is weird because LEGO Island made it 
 with dialogue. Still, moaning is okay. And humorous. Music is also great. From John Williams, it 
 TOTALLY fits into Star Wars.
  
  The game is way too easy. You don't have lives, but you will drop an amount of studs [the games 
 currency] though. Enemy's have hearts too. Common enemies like Stormtroopers are easy to kill. 
 Other enemies have 2 or 4 hearts.
  
  If you collect LEGO and like Star Wars, its a must-get. If your kids are crying for it, get them 
 one. If you wanna stick to bloody and violent games, stay away, cause breaking LEGO pieces won't 
 show blood [though i'd love to see that] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artoros
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Never a computer game felt so much like real Star Wars before! This is not a parody, this is a 
 homage. Yes, of course, this is only a game for people who have watched the movie at least a gazillion 
 times - but who hasn't? You play or see almost every scene of the movie and you can see and feel, 
 that the programmers loved these movies very much. And just seeing all these troopers blasted to 
 LEGO bits is fantastic. Of course this is no game with innovative graphics. Or gameplay. Or music. 
 Or whatever. But it just makes a lot of fun! And if you like Star Wars it is a lot of lot of fun 
 :-) Ok, to be honest, some of the vehicile sequences can get a little bit annoying. But who cares? 
 I loved the game a lot and I wished I would have the feeling with more computer games, that the 
 developers put some real heart in their work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prisim_92
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 21, 2006 2:22 am PT
Review:  Seriously when I heard Star Wars Lego i thought that`ll be an insult to the game...
  
  I eat my words...
  
  The gameplay is awesome can be annoying since the camera positioning takes 
 it away from the screen sometimes. It makes up for that through graphics and humour.
  The sound like always is classic star wars. The humour or the story without speaking fits in perfectly 
 with the lego theme...
  There are loads of secrets and unlockables and i din`t get bored playing it over and over yet again..
 
  
  If u can get a second player to play with you its much more awesome - it`s fun kickin your friends 
 ass..
  
  All in all a game worth buying and you wont regret it
  If you`re a hardcore star wars fan you wont regret it either... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captainbill47
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 19, 2006 2:35 am PT
Review:  This game shows what two great ideas and a little imagination can do when used correctly. LEGO 
 was one of the most popular and widely used toys 15+ years ago. The Star Wars series is arguably 
 one of the most well known and loved trilogies of all time. LEGO Star Wars II (a sequel to LEGO 
 Star Wars I, centered around movies I - III) brings these two giants together on the small screen 
 in an exciting, whimsical and humorous adventure game unlike anything on the market. The game features 
 a general first person shooter feel with a variety of characters, weapons and abilities to inspire 
 gamers of all ages to learn the ways of the force. The player generally fights their way through 
 the most popular scenes of the IVth Vth and VIth movies of the Star Wars series while collecting 
 studs and building well known items from the Star Wars movies. Pros: The game is not difficult 
 and has a very fast learning curve. Nostalgia and humor run rampant throughout each and every level 
 keeping gamers glued to the game. Star Wars fans will enjoy a new look to their favorite movies 
 and LEGO fans will appreciate the details created from their favorite building blocks. Free play 
 and challenge modes give the game a lot of replay value and every level must be completed at least 
 3 times to get the 100% completion stat so many players covet! Cons: The game occasionally falls 
 pray to poor camera angles and hardcore gamers may find the game too easy. Also, the Jedi light 
 saber can be a bit difficult to aim on occasion. Tilt: The positives far out weigh the negatives 
 in this game and the enchantingly delightful stroll down memory lane can be enough to induce perfect 
 scores from many fans. I give the game 9.1/10 for it's sheer brilliance , humor and perfect score 
 on the fun-o-meter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devvy01
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 13, 2006 6:37 am PT
Review:  I thoroughly enjoyed the 1st lego star wars. Good concept of a simple idea. The good;
  Enjoyable, plenty of secrets to discover
  Graphics and sound are good
  Can play all the old 
 movie characters
  All the old movie levels are great
  
  The bad;
  Far FAR too easy. More depth into each level
  Looks rushed especially on the cut scenes
  The 
 score multiplier is obviously not programmed correctly, should of been 2x then 4x then 6x so on. 
 Not a combination of both.
  The vehicles outside the canteena do NOTHING. Waste of programming.
  Really bad camera angles 
 on some levels, Should of made the walls invisible when around corners, come-on how hard can it 
 be?
  
  100% in game in about 30 hours playing time is not worth the price tag.
  Should have more levels like lego city.
  
  Won't need to play again unfortunately, not enough 
 to pull back to spend another 30 hours playing to get 100%. Come on, use your noggins and get more 
 creative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Piraka-Gang
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2006 12:40 am PT
Review:  Lego Star Wars II let you play Episode 4, 5, and 6 in the Lego way. Replay your favorite moments 
 like Star Wars. You play as Darth Vader, Han Solo, and Darth 3PO? Also, you can mix and match to 
 make 2 custom characters. The game let you play as the original characters from the first Lego 
 Star Wars game. The game have secret characters like the Scout Trooper and AT-AT Trooper. Some 
 of the characters' ability are cool. Ride and play vehicles like the TIE star fighters and the 
 mighty Slave I. You should buy this game for you, a friend, a family member, or anyone you know. 
 It the greatest game ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbswordfish8
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 7, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  gameplay - [4] - platforming and killing. control shooters, jedi, and droids who share there own 
 abilities. Yoda my fav Go YODA!
  
  Story - [4] - Story comes right out of the original trilogy. could have cooler movies, but they 
 funny.
  
  game play graphics - [3.5] - dey look like legos, and you can see the art into building the milinium 
 falcon and everything else.
  
  movie graphics - [3.0] - make your ship have a moustache.
  
  SFX - [5.0] - Sounds just like the original trilogy. Blasters flaring, light sabers clashing 
 together. Chewie's retarded grunt. It all good.
  
  Music - [5.0] - its all good.
  
  Length &amp; Difficulty - [2.5] - collecting stuff is a bore.
  
  Xtra Features - [4.0] - lots 
 of collectibles. but no upgrades!
  
  My love for the game - [4.0]
  
  Youyr love for the game - [4.0]
  
  Added up
  
  gameplay - 08
  graphics - 06.5
  Sound 
 - 10.0
  Value - 6.5
  Tilt - 8.0
  
  With 1 bonus point shared equally among Tilt &amp; Graphics
  
  Gameplay - 08
  Graphics - 
 07
  Sound - 10.0
  Value - 7.0
  Tilt - 9.0
  
  Which gives this game an 8.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aurelien48
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 3, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  This game goes exactly like the old star wars movies!!! I was just bored and went to go rent a 
 game and took lego star wars 2 because is look easy and just and funny too play!!! it does get 
 boring at the end but when you get top free play the game is finish really easily. or take your 
 favorite character and go fight the enemy or even built your character!! that was one of the best 
 part!!! there's different gun with differtn function as well light saber and power!! the power 
 and pretty awsome!! the grapghic are good for being like lego. the sound is good. the value is 
 alreight but i gave it a pretty good score because I like the game and hoe its made!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicphoto
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 2, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Lego Star Wars II the Original Trilogy Review
  
  Star Wars has been one of those successful franchises in gaming that always offers so many different 
 type of gameplay ideas from shooting, strategy, RPG, beat em up and so much more. However it got 
 truly different when last year Lego Star Wars arrived bringing the world of Star Wars in Lego blocks. 
 The idea for many sounded kiddy and boring however it turned out to be a great title with so many 
 unlockables and collecting to do, co-op mode and funny Lego block style that was always exciting 
 to see how each part of the movies look in Lego blocks, yet that was only for episodes I, II and 
 III. Then now in 2006 they bring once again the Lego blocks style for Star Wars this time with 
 the Original Trilogy that are episodes IV, V and VI. They promise many new additions that will 
 improve over the original, so do the improvements bring more excitement or more of the same? Keep 
 reading to find out.
  
  The story of the game is the same story we have on the movies despite a few changes here and there 
 in details. The galaxy is now ruled by the Empire ruled by Darth Vader. Yet a group is form called 
 the rebel alliance that wants to wipe out the empire and save the galaxy and restore peace once 
 again. An old master Jedi Obi-Wan Kenobi finds a young boy named Luke Skywalker and believes he 
 has the strength of a Jedi to defeat Darth Vader and so starts training him. Most of you probably 
 now the rest of the story and its a pretty long one so is good to see the developers didnt really 
 ruin the story even if the world is in Lego blocks.
  
  The gameplay is still similar to the original you go around levels shooting down or slashing down 
 the opponents on your way, jumping from platform to platform and the special ability of each character. 
 This time around not only a Jedi can grab and build Lego items but also now the shooters and other 
 non-robotic character can rebuild blocks that are pieces thrown on the floor. Still they will be 
 areas in which only Jedis can use the force to destroy doors, and push or grab stuff that cant 
 be reach. The game now also features special areas in the game that can only be access by a stormtrooper 
 and others that can only be access by bounty hunters. Bounty Hunters now also have a special time 
 bomb to destroy strong metallic objects that hide secrets. Those that shoot with guns now have 
 the ability to avoid enemy fire automatically and better targeting and they also still use cables 
 to reach high or far away areas.
  
  Another quite great improvement is the puzzles that are now more challenging while not really hard 
 is still more challenging then the ones on the original. What makes great about these puzzles is 
 that different characters will be needed to solve each puzzle from the Jedi warrior to the shooter 
 and droids to open doors is quite very varied and makes the experience never feel repetitive. Plus 
 it also at times mixes the combat with puzzles for example in one level you will be chasing darth 
 Vader you will be at first fighting him and then you will need to follow him but you will need 
 to solve the puzzles on the way. The levels are even bigger containing a huge amount of secrets 
 in every level that will always leave you exploring every single detail of each level. The Co-Op 
 mode of 2 players makes a return and is truly needed because now they are more puzzles that require 
 someone else to solve not only that but also the camera now lets the characters separate from 
 each other more. Still the camera could separate even more, there is no co-op online play and at 
 times you wish there was a some sort of way to compete with your partner instead of only just help 
 each other.
  
  On the previous game we had vehicle on rail shooting now on this one is free roaming throughout 
 the levels. Most of these levels like on the death star or on a meteor chase with the Millennium 
 Falcon consist of destroying specific purple targets that can only be destroyed with special bombs 
 that you need to find on the level. Yet enemy ships will be flying around and will never stop coming 
 and truly annoy you killing you so many times but if you do the level with a teammate you can certainly 
 do even better. You can also create your own vehicles around some levels however is not something 
 used so much on all the levels and sometimes just feel useless and some of them way out of the 
 star wars universe like a car that looks like a mowing grass car machine.
  
  The character selection was one of the biggest things of the original because it let you play has 
 almost everyone that appeared on those episodes and that doesnt change here you can play with 
 cameo characters like IG-88 bounty hunter that we rarely get to see in action on the movies. Not 
 only that but you can even change the story completely because now the game has the unlockable 
 ability to transfer all the characters from the first game to this one so you can have the ultimate 
 character selection. And not stopping there you can now create your own character by mixing different 
 pieces of different characters and make some crazy combinations like Yoda with Leias bikini body 
 and even make your favorite characters like Boba Fett and Chewbacca become a Jedi.
  
  One of the biggest complains many had with the first game was the difficulty and while even tough 
 now on this game there is a feature called adaptive difficulty that if you are doing really great 
 on the game it will automatically make it more challenging but if its too much they lower down 
 the challenge. Unfortunately it doesnt really change that much what it basically does is just 
 add even more enemies on the level. Which is the most annoying thing on this game because while 
 you are trying to build something an enemy will fire at you and stop your building and while you 
 can just kill it the game still keeps enemies coming and coming. If only youre A. I teammate would 
 do something but his attacks dont really kill the enemies for some strange reason.
  
  Graphically Lego Star Wars II is once again interesting and very exciting to watch every level 
 in Lego blocks that being said other areas of the game are still in the normal way they look on 
 the movies so dont expect everything to be blocky. The games camera can still be a bit clunky 
 and would be nice to have control of it. Visual effects arent really impressive at all most of 
 them are made pretty simple but still nothing annoying or in the way. Despite the few issues here 
 in there with the visuals is still overall a great presentation and recreation of each important 
 area of the movies.
  
  In the audio department Lego Star Wars II features the great masterpieces of John Williams of the 
 classic trilogy once again here and they are has good has ever. The sound effects have improved 
 over the original since in the first one some of the sounds of the shooting guns didnt really 
 fitted and other times not in the best quality. The game features no voiceovers in which is greatly 
 positive here because seeing the blocky characters talk with probably a voice that dont really 
 fit with them, better just leave them quite rather then something cheesy. The feel of a war during 
 hoth battle and others is also still there which is always great to get that feeling of action 
 all around you.
  
  While the game is only 3 episodes each of them with only 6 levels for a total of 18 levels may 
 seem pretty short but that is only if you just skipped everything and just went on to do the main 
 mission. Because the game features a serious of tons of unlockables: they are 10 canisters to find 
 in each level that are hidden in secret areas, you will need to collect a big amount of studs (more 
 like coins) on each level until you get the award of true jedi in each of them, also collect golden 
 and red blocks that unlock even more secret stuff like new levels. You also have to buy the many 
 extras of the game including infinite health, be able to use the old characters from the first 
 game with your studs not only that but you also have to buy the many other characters to play with 
 including the powerful darth Sidious. So there is enough to keep you busy for months or more.
 
  
  Overall Lego Star Wars II is truly an amazing sequel it takes what was great on the first title 
 and expands it even more with so many great features and despite a few issues here and there it 
 is still truly the most unique star wars gaming experience yet. If you really loved the first game 
 you will certainly enjoy this one however if you didnt like the first one because of being too 
 easy and such well you can still at least give it a rent and just enjoy all it has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorpion_great
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 1, 2006 5:06 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of the first LEGO Star Wars, I thought to myself this is meant for children 
 and I think I wasnt the only one who thought that.
  But after I decided to play it, believe it or not it kicked ass.
  When the 2nd one came out, 
 I was pretty excited. But does LEGO Star Wars 2 really feel like a whole new game?
  Well keep on reading and you will find out.
  
  Gameplay - I found the gameplay to be very fun 
 and somehow challenging. The gameplay got much better then the first one, but really it just feels 
 like the first one. There many characters to choose from and even create your own, but I found 
 the characters in the first game a bit more unique. I really liked the vehicles levels. They were 
 fast paced and very interesting. In a way the gameplay got a little easier since some characters 
 can now dodge enemy fire. But theres definitely more puzzles to do, and really I never got bored 
 of even one level because they were all unique and interesting to explore. There definitely a lot 
 more extras in the game but once you buy most of them, the game becomes very easy. But basically 
 what makes the gameplay so fun is all the things you can collect, buy and use. So really your going 
 to be spending more times on collecting things. The boss fights were very easy and I think even 
 easier then the first one, but I cant say I still didnt have fun. Really youll find out that 
 the gameplay is basically the same with a lot more extras.
  
  Graphics - Now if you play the first and second game, you will probably say that the graphics havent 
 changed. And youre basically right, but there are actually a few graphical improvements such as 
 the effects. But overall the graphics are not too bad.
  
  Sound - Now the music is what really made it feel like a Star Wars game. Mostly every level had 
 its own music taken from the Star Wars movie. Now you wont hear the characters talk only mumble 
 and so on but I was okay with that since after all they are just LEGO characters. You will notice 
 too that no matter what character you choose, if you push objects they will make the same sound. 
 But again the music is what really gave you that Star Wars feeling.
  
  Value - Well if you want a game that should keep you busy for at least 2 weeks or maybe even a 
 month (depending if you want to get 100% in the game) then sure $60 is worth it. But if you just 
 want to beat the levels, you might as well spend that $60 on a multiplayer game.
  
  So overall I really had a fun time playing this and you will too. Even if your 30 years old. But 
 if you had a choice to either get this game or the first one, I would definitely go with this one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewlux
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 29, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is hard and stressful because it is hard to first set up and get used to the controls 
 and to set up a good system to do the game with. Also many of the puzzles can also be very hard 
 to solve and it can take awhile to solve it and be very stressful. The good thing is that this 
 game is very funny and it is more light-hearted with rules such as you have infinite lives but 
 you lose coins you collected each time you die. The graphics are good, the sounds are good, the 
 gameplay is very hard and stressful but it can be done in the end and it is fun. The value is very 
 high as you can do many levels again with many more options and unlocks. This is overall a good 
 game. I would reccomend you to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hackerdork
Rating: 7.4
Date: Sep 29, 2006 9:12 am PT
Review:  OK, I am a fan of Star wars, and have been since 1976 when I read all the hype about A New Hope. 
 I have always enjoyed games based on SW as well.
  This lego game, like the first is very addictive, you shoot fricking everything.
  
  The game 
 itself is cute, but my 10 year old had a hard time finding items that were hiddend by the camera. 
 Since this is done in first person (a-la mario world) . It would be nice to have a FREE LOOK feature 
 using the mouse or one of the axis on your game pad.
  
  The game does support keyboard play, BLECH! Doing combo moves like running and double jump get 
 yourself a 8 button game controller.
  
  Story mode you play the scenes out in Star War IV, V, and VI. However some of the story like is 
 LEGO not Star Wars, in other words don't expect everything to make sence. The humor in the game 
 is fun too.
  
  Freeplay on the otherhand you can explorer areas of the game where story mode would'nt allow, you 
 need to get as many charaters for story mode because some of the charaters can't perform the dark 
 force powers, or can crawl into tunnels.
  
  The game is additive, even if the sound in'st so hot, since the game comes on a single CD, LEGO 
 put their efford in the graphics, the dialog is mumbles in LEGOspeak, and cartoonish effect of 
 lego peices falling all over again is cute.
  
  If you like lego, and like Star Wars I say get this game. If you want to try to pry your children 
 or wife from the game good luck!
  
  ~ out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedi3468
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 28, 2006 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Just like in the first game ,Cute and fun make a great combination in Lego Star Wars: The Original 
 Trilogy. Since I grew up with legos &amp; Star Wars- this was an instant hit with me! The close 
 attention to detail is amazing- Its like the feeling of wonder I felt when seeing Star Wars for 
 the first time. Its kinda cool watching my childhood toys come to life. Every time I play it I'm 
 tempted to go and purchase every Star Wars Lego set I see! What a great way to promote &amp; rekindle 
 the wonder of legos to those of us who think we've outgrown them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwcjackal
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 27, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Another Star wars game , a good game non the less , however it dose had problems , such as the 
 no save game apart from the auto save thats ment to save at the end of a round but dont count of 
 it. The cam is the worst , its never in the right place. but apart from that its a bit of fun with 
 lego. Id say worth the money when it gos to buget around &pound;10 sound about right for this. 
 But saying all that i must say this one of the more entertaing SW games from LucasArts and that 
 begs the question why are they makeing such crap with outher LucasArts games apart from the money 
 of course. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaco123
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 25, 2006 10:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is really all that cracked up to be. If your looking for a game to pass the time this 
 is iT. It has good graphics gameplay isn't so bad and the sound is great. This game also portrays 
 a good scence of humor and sheer briliance in combining starwars and lego. If you have never played 
 with Lego in your childhood and never seen starwars I recomend you buy them cause you just missed 
 a part of your life!!!! I havent played the original Lego Star wars but that aside this game Kicks 
 A*S.. If your looking for a long lasting to pass time and enjoy it. This is the game you will need!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBZ-Vegeta
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 22, 2006 3:27 am PT
Review:  in my oppinion this game is very cool ;] , but i cant move trought level 4 ; [ if anyone can help 
 me please tell me . I think that the game is somthing like strategu because u have to think of 
 many different ways in free play mode. There are many secret places that are hard to find and that's 
 why i like this game . I like that that there are many different characters and i alsow like that 
 you can change them in the free play mode . So the more characters you have unlocked the more secrets 
 you 'll get 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crater
Rating: 5.9
Date: Sep 27, 2006 5:23 am PT
Review:  No dialog whatsoever = bad. Having the characters running around murmuring might be cute for the 
 first couple of minutes, but it wears thin really fast. Also, many games (and of course movies) 
 have mastered the art of making you feel as if you're part of a vast world or universe, part of 
 a bigger picture far greater than what you see on screen. Lego SW has not, at all. As a result, 
 you always feel as if you're playing in some developer's small sandbox instead of the SW universe. 
 As a player, the lack of dialog just means no real connection with the game or the characters, 
 and the gameplay itself feels claustrophobic, like you're stuck in individual rooms instead of 
 taking part in another universe. The one other big disappointment was that this game continues 
 the incomprehensible console obsession with unlocking items. Except in this game, it's taken to 
 an extreme that is hard to imagine... gold bricks, minikits, red power bricks, studs... a ridiculous 
 amount of meaningless things to unlock and an empty variation of ways to do it. All of these games 
 that incorporate unlocking are based on one thing: making you play the same things over and over 
 and OVER again, in the very lame attempt at stretching the game's length for the player without 
 investing any resources actually creating content. Very, truly lame, and with Lego Star Wars: a) this 
 is taken to a ridiculous extreme, and b) even if you bother wasting the enormous amounts of time 
 doing it, most of the unlocked content is incredibly disappointing. What else. Oh but of course... no 
 save game ability. Throw in the fact that the individual missions are very long, and you have a 
 poor game to just pick up for a few minutes of fun now and then. For those with interests/lives 
 other than gaming (meaning the vast majority of us) , that's not good. It's yet another instance 
 where the developers just didn't listen to what has become a pretty universal beef, and in any 
 case, it seems like a very odd design choice for what is essentially a kid's game.
  
  I had high hopes for this game because I love the original SW movies and the game sounded creative 
 and different, but it was ultimately disappointing. It's not a *bad* game, and can be cute, but 
 in the end, it's much the same as most other games these days in one main respect: it's overhyped. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luke1138
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 21, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  I can't understand why this was only rated 7.7 on Gamespot. Lego Star Wars I was only rated 7.6. 
 Maybe not as complex or mind challenging as some games but Lego Star Wars II is just plain fun! 
 Builds on the first version and makes everything better.
  
  The puzzles are interesting and challenging while at the same time collecting studs to gain true 
 jedi status is not as frustrating as the previous version. The graphics are terrific and really 
 immerses you into the Lego environment. The sound is excellent enhancing the game play and a bit 
 less repetitive than the previous version.
  
  Believe it or not there's even more humor in this version than the first. I think if you buy Lego 
 Star Wars II first, you may be disappointed with Lego Star Wars I unless you just can't get enough 
 of the puzzles and want more puzzles to solve.
  
  The only 2 frustrating things about the game are:
  
  1. It is sometimes difficult to get your 
 player in the right position on the screen to activate things, collect studs, or jump across ledges 
 correctly. 2. Some people, including me, had a 1330 installation error but there is an installation 
 patch on the LucasArts Web site that should fix it. You can find it here: http://support. lucasarts. com/patches/LSW2_Update1_01. htm 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cocomacoco
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Lego Star Wars Trilogy 2 is a great continue of the original franchise title, Lucas Arts and Tt's 
 developers really did a great job, i just bought the game today, and i was a bit doubful to spend 
 that money, but what a wonderful surprise it was, at the beginning, the game was retorical and 
 boring, but just because i was a little bit confuse of the path to follow, as the only big problem 
 of the game is the camera view/.
  
  The camera is fix like it is and there's a lack of locking features, but that's the only cons this 
 game has, as a matter of fact there's another little problem, which is there's not really weapons 
 selection, you will just stick to your lego gun , and your lego-jedi sword.
  
  but well enough of bad things and let's go to the good ones that are many, as i said there's not 
 many weapons on hand but that is acceptable as throughout the game you will interact a lot with 
 many objects, cranks and use the force to allow some of your team members to follow you were they 
 can't and you do.
  
  the gameplay is quite simple with the pressing or smashing of square button to make your combos, 
 and alter combinations of x and square to double jump and finish your foe with a powerful Jedi 
 stomp, there's also the use of circle to use the force.
  
  Now, there's many characters in the game, that you can buy/unlock , depends the character, and 
 each of them will be used on different tasks, that only each of them can do, C3PO will use his 
 ability to open doors and so on.
  
  There are many things you can ride in this game, space ships, The TWo legged mech freaks that are 
 very anoying, Mamouth like cows, and other beasts and mechs, by pressing the triangle button, and 
 this is real fun. you can use this as vehicles to make your way easier or to overcome obstacles.
 
  
  You'll experience some puzzle-like situations, where by the combinations of all the characters 
 you have, then you can solve this puzzles and go through the next area-stage. And you can also 
 use the force to create a way to reach higher locations you couldn't normally reach.
  
  The Graphics are pretty cool, and the landscapes are well similar to the ones on the three original 
 movies, of course, with a child appealing texture.
  the effects of explosion and the Force are pretty mouth opening for a game simple as it is this 
 one.
  
  The sound effects is what makes this game more credible and enjoyable, even though you're using 
 a cartoonist Obi Wan, when he unveiles the Light Sable is the same sound as in the movie, the laser 
 guns all have different sound tones for the characters, there's no voices though, just : mhmhmhlklk 
 , but there's great sound for this game, and the best is the background score with original and 
 updated original simphonic tracks of Star Wars.
  
  Overall this game is a great choice, it translates a bit into Nintendo's logo, entertainment and 
 fun for everyone, thank you and Kawabonga!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomdelonge0686
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 19, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  i think it was around a year ago now when the 360 came out and i was all excited cuz i dint have 
 to play madden 06 on the keyboard and lame controllers i bout that had a router and u would press 
 1 and it would take 2 secs to registered :- (... My hope is nearly lol it was over with the 360 controller 
 when i put it in! and the triggers didnt work and the qb vision stick wouldnt work so i couldnt 
 go online. The day i bouhgt madden 07 i wanted see what it was like and forgot i had a wire controller 
 for the 360 and wanted to see sense the game came out after the controller and it was sweet that 
 the game was programmed for it! so when i got this game as the menu came up i took the controller 
 and went down on the menu and fellas i think all the console games for the pc r gonna be for the 
 controller now! this game play smooth and flawess with it! the graphics r awesome with the reflections! 
 its a great game for a lego game! just the sound isnt so good sense its ported and doesnt supports 
 as good as doom or hl2 but that doesnt mean really anyting but kinda still/. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tommyland
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 19, 2006 1:41 am PT
Review:  I am a huge Star Wars fan and I must say this game is amazing! Star Wars Legos is very easy to 
 play and it is really a no-brainer when it comes to finding your way around. If you have kinds 
 this is the game you need! The levels are nice and the camera movements are smooth. The audio is 
 extremely nice and makes the gameplay that much better!!
  
  This game should be an instant classic because the second you start playing it your hooked. I downloaded 
 the demo here at Gamespot and I cant stop playing it. Huge levels and it mimicks the film. Great 
 cut scenes too! Thanks Gamespot for the wonderful download, you made my night! Go pick this one 
 up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kunk
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 17, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed the first Lego Star Wars so I had to get this one when it came out. This game is just 
 fun to play. There's a good mix between combat and puzzle solving and I really like that you can 
 drive vehicles and fly ships in this one. This game had me laughing out loud more then a few times 
 with the cut scenes. Its also funny to see how they translate a lot of the characters into Lego 
 figures.
  This game is obviously a port of a console game and therefore is best played using gamepads. Using 
 the keyboard to control your character is quite awkward and takes some getting used to. I'm using 
 two Logitech wireless gamepads and my wife and I have a blast playing 2 player mode on this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_DoDo56
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  The gmae was a bit quirky just like it's prequel and the scenes ares till very funny. The game 
 started out good and finished good. I played it for many hours and found that to a younger sibling 
 it can be open ended. The unlocks give the brick collecting a new goal and being able to interlock 
 different characters body parts gave your character a new edge. During the game the scenes will 
 just make you burst up laughing because they are quriky and different from other scenes where they 
 have to be serious Overall this game was a really good one and if you have a younger sibling or 
 even a younger friend buy this and you will be entertained for many times to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagnusGman
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 15, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Don't let this game's childish lego appearence fool you. This game is suprisingly good. Of course 
 by the name of this game, this lego romp centers around the original star wars movies. But if your 
 one of those people who HAS a life, then Star Wars is that thing with the laser swords, and crazy 
 talking green midgets. Of course this game is short, but then again, the mountains and mountains 
 of secrets will keep you coming back for more. Be sure to collect the piles of secret characters 
 to. Along with it's crazy free play, this game deserves at least a week of your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archrivel
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 14, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Lego Starwars II, does a great job of once again putting you in the atmosphere of Star wars. It 
 is star wars but in Lego :D. They've done a great job of capturing the serious moments in the films 
 and added the lego perks that make it suddenly funny. It quiet clearly shows, they've put more 
 thought and effort into this version than they did the previous one, The puzzles are challanging 
 and require a bit of thought as well. However for my Nieces and Nephews, they find this game pure 
 enjoyment and fun to play and in fact this is their favorite game. The game does a great! job of 
 adapting to the skill level of my Nephew and lowers the game level to easy, if I took over the 
 game reconises it and increases the game level to match my skill level. Which is great, because 
 this allows parents, Brother n sisters to play together, and have a bit of fun. The only problems 
 with this game is of cause what was said in the offical review the camera positions don't help 
 much. Also perhaps they could add more to do in the Cantina like they did in the previous one, 
 For example you could play the juke box or poor your self some coffee. This version all you can 
 do is blow up chars n pull the lights down. I would like to see us to be able to manipulate the 
 objects more, like if there is a cup on the table, we could pick it up and drink from it.
  
  Overall this game is one of those that is a pleasure to play. It's a great tool also for families 
 to play together at Christmas etc.
  
  Great work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 281538960
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 12, 2006 5:56 am PT
Review:  Lego star wars is the second game in this series from acclaimed studio of LucasArts. Lego Star 
 Wars II is still primarily an action adventure game in which you control a group of characters 
 as they blast their way through enemies and do some light puzzle-solving and the occasional platform-jumping. The 
 game has its problems such as the uncontrollable camera angles and the little and small graphical 
 tweaks, but overall the game has a sense of style and gameplay that is much improved from the previous 
 games. This multiplatformer is a definite choice to go with consedering the fact that it gives 
 everything we love and admire about star wars. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
