-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Lego Soccer Mania
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/legosoccermania/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 10, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.6
Critic Score: 5.1, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 33 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Lego Media
Developer: Silicon Dreams
Genre: Soccer
Date:     Jun 30, 2002
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Soccer Mania is geared towards children, but that doesn't excuse the problems with its controls, 
 loading times, and slowdown. 

 Lego building bricks are as much a staple of late-20th century American childhood toys as Barbie, 
 G. I. Joe, and Hot Wheels, but unlike these other toys, their appeal is primarily their potential 
 to unlock a child's imagination as they take the bricks apart and rebuild them. There was a time 
 when Lego pieces were sold by the bucket, to be built into a spaceship, a farm tractor, a hot rod, 
 a boat, or a medieval castle, but over the years Lego sets have been released that are geared toward 
 specific themes. One recent example of this is Lego Soccer, a series of toys that feature the classic 
 Lego figures as soccer players in arenas built out of Lego bricks. To complement this line of toys, 
 Lego Interactive created Soccer Mania, an arcade-style PC soccer game starring Lego characters. 
 While the game can be fairly entertaining for a while, it does little more than slap little Lego 
 people into a mediocre soccer game.           This game has all sorts of Lego characters and environments. 
    

 On the surface, Soccer Mania has everything it needs to give Lego fans an enjoyable alternative 
 to playing with Lego bricks. The game can be played in several different modes, including quick 
 start, exhibition, skill zones, Lego Cup, and story mode. Quick start and exhibition are basic 
 game modes that let you get in, play a fast match, and get out. Skill zones -- such as gate crasher, 
 canyon chaos, and shoot the booty -- are like tutorials that focus on specific controls or skills. 
 Once you complete a skill zone, you unlock a new player to add to your team. Lego Cup is just a 
 Lego version of the World Cup, in which you choose a team and enter a tournament that features 
 32 teams from around the world.   

  The story mode is a bizarre campaign that sets you on an extensive quest that is essentially a 
 string of soccer games set in various Lego environments. The story begins with you winning a trophy 
 after beating three teams, but before the trophy can be presented, Brickster, the villain, steals 
 it and runs away. You must then embark on a quest to recover the trophy. Along the way, you will 
 need clues or assistance from different Lego people, but for some reason these Lego people always 
 challenge you to a soccer game before offering their assistance. Eventually you will chase Brickster 
 through dozens of arenas from the tropics, to the arctic, and off into space -- an admirable effort 
 to recover a trophy.   

  While the story is enough to give a vague context to an otherwise random assortment of Lego people 
 and places, the most entertaining part of the game is watching the scripted team celebrations after 
 each goal. These celebrations include break dancing, dogpiles, airplane runs, and even suggestive 
 horsy rides that push the boundaries of what can be shown in a children's game.   

  The soccer action itself is substandard. The controls and camera angles are less than ideal and 
 make it difficult to pass and place shots accurately. The artificial intelligence of players on 
 the field is fairly rudimentary, both on the opposing team and on your team. The soccer game itself 
 is a simplified version of real soccer, with fewer players per team, a smaller field, and fairly 
 short time limits. The field is surrounded by a plasma wall that lets players pass through but 
 not balls -- in other words, there are no out-of-bounds, no throw-ins, and no corner kicks. In addition, 
 while there is a referee character on the field in every match, there are no penalties.   

  Players each have different attributes such as speed, dribbling, passing, and shooting, and as 
 you progress through the story mode or unlock new players in the skill zones, you can upgrade your 
 team. In addition to standard dribbling, passing, and shooting, players also have access to two 
 special skill moves, one that lets them sneak by a defender and another that lets them perform 
 an acrobatic overhead kick. The power-ups featured in the game add more options, like superspeed 
 and exploding balls, which can be used when you collect them from the field.           After your 
 team scores a goal, the team really lets loose.    

 Unfortunately the game is plagued with technical problems as well. On a test system that exceeded 
 the recommended requirements, the game repeatedly slowed down during soccer matches and featured 
 unreasonably long loading times in between matches. While the game does include 3D player models 
 and arenas, instant replays from several angles, and some scripted 3D scenes, most of the scenes 
 in story mode are static illustrations with voice-overs, which makes the long load times seem puzzling. 
 To its credit, the game is colorful and bright and includes a diverse array of recognizable Lego 
 characters and environments. The sound is decent, with appropriate sound effects and music that 
 improve the arcade feel of the game. The voice-overs in between matches also add a European flair 
 to the game, with brief announcer-style comments with a thick British accent.   

  Soccer Mania is geared toward children, but that doesn't excuse the problems with its controls, 
 loading times, and slowdown. While the game may seem reasonably fun at first and offers an extensive 
 number of options on three difficulty settings, it's unlikely that players of any age will want 
 to play the game for very long.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: pigfish2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 3:12 am PT
Review:  Lego football mania in brief is a arcade football game in which you play as lego characters in 
 a variety of fun and exciting game modes. It does have drawbacks though.
  
  The game modes in Lego soccer mania are story, single match, challenges and lego world cup. Single 
 match is pretty obvious. You can use any of the teams you've unlocked or your story team to play 
 one off matches against either the computer or with two players. Challenges are more like training 
 exercises. Completing them unlocks five higher skilled players each with their own unique talents. 
 The challenges range from easy to hard but can be very frustrating at times and sometimes you will 
 just give up they're that hard. Lego world cup is exactly what it says on the tin. You can choose 
 from one of thirty-two national sides represented by lego players and compete for the lego world 
 cup. It's fun but the best gamesply mode is the story. It goes as follows. You have to win six 
 mathces to win the lego cup. However once you've achieved that feat it's cruelly snatched away 
 when the Brixter steals the trophy. The rest of the story is about playing matches to hunt him 
 down and regain possesion of the cup.
  
  Gameplay mechanics are simple. You have five outfield players and a goalie. You have to pass the 
 ball around and the whoever scores the most in the time limit wins. Various items pop up to collect 
 and each one offers something different to the game. Power-ups include a shield, rocket ball and 
 super speed. An electric fence resides around the edges of the pitch so that the ball can't go 
 out of play. There are many pitches and amny varied teams. Adults and even teenagers may be put 
 off by the lego theme but underneath is a solid arcade football experience. Graphically the pc can 
 offer much better but it's not so bad tat you'll be put off playing and sound wise the commentary 
 is good but not exceptional.
  
  Lego football mania has no outright flaws to speak off. Loading times can get annoying and are 
 rather long and there's occasioanl slowdown but get over thes eissues and you will have an enjoyable 
 experience. The game brings nothing new to the table and won't appeal to everyone but it is a good 
 game. Nevertheless it doesn't have anything special about it or any real spark so it is in no way 
 a must buy or a pc highlight. Anyone looking for some no frills football fun should look no further 
 because you could do a lot worse.
  
  Score=76% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboydb59
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 6:31 am PT
Review:  I used to play this a bit at my friends' house, mostly multiplayer. I was young enough to really 
 like it, and my little brothers and sisters seem to enjoy it, so it's probably a pretty good kid's 
 game.
  
  However, my youngest brother also cleans up at NHL 06 (which he likes much better) , so there's 
 not much point in buying this unless you've already got every single other soccer (and to a lesser 
 extent, hockey) game made (and I would have to question why you did) .
  This game would be much better if:
  
  The end camera worked better
  Sprinting didn't turn 
 you in increments (makes it feel very broken)
  There was a competent Hard mode
  The load times were shorter (seriously, what is it loading?)
  The teams were more balanced (even 
 though they let you, you can't mix and match players and have a good game because each team is 
 a good bit better than the last. So no mostly normal soccer teams where the goalie is a skeleton.)
 
  The penalty kick goalie control worked better
  And
  The music was less annoying.
  
  Gameplay: 6. Basically normal soccer, but with crazy powerups and zany moves. On anything but hard 
 it's no competition at all. On hard it's still not much, but if you're using a poor team and they've 
 got a much better one they can beat you sometimes. The goalies seem mostly the same on the better 
 teams or the medium teams, but the speed of the players is very different (and pretty important.)
 
  
  Graphics: 7.
  Actually decent. You won't notice too many problems with them.
  
  Sound: 5.
  Music is annoying. Sound effects are basic. Commentary will drive you crazy. Little 
 kids'll love it.
  
  Value: 4. Not really worth it unless you can find it for free.
  
  Tilt: 5.
  I used to enjoy this game, but I can't really anymore. The only fun is in multiplayer, 
 which is better but not really that great (and you'll always try to tie the score in the last few 
 minutes and not score during sudden death so you can play the fun penalty mode, slightly broken 
 as it is.)
  
  One last note: Own goals will almost always go in. Little kids will get thrown off by the halftime 
 side swap and will score an own goal at the beginning of the second half quite often. It can be 
 pretty funny when they start celebrating and then see their players arguing in the cutscene and 
 slowly figure it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jukilum
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 24, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  The game may not be the best ever, but it is pretty good. The reviewer obviously wasn't part of 
 the target audience, which he also speaks for in his review. At least this sports game has a story 
 that doesn't feel like it was thrown in as an afterthought. I don't know what multi-player is like, 
 I haven't tried it, but it looks good, and you can have two humans on both teams. The controls 
 aren't the best, (being designed for other consoles) but once you have them figured out it can 
 be tons of fun. The camera angle is good, too, with it always pointing at the ball. Try it out! 
 This game is hard to describe and the reviewer didn't do it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
