-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Lego Racers
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/legoracers/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  7, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.5, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 325 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Lego Media
Developer: High Voltage Soft.
Genre: Kart Racing
Date:     Jul 31, 1999
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A simple, colorful, and fun high-speed romp through a land built entirely of those famous snap-together 
 building blocks. 

 LEGO Racers is everything you'd expect it to be: a simple, colorful, and fun high-speed romp through 
 a land built entirely of those famous snap-together building blocks.  

 Essentially, LEGO Racers is much more of an arcade-style racer than anything else and seems like 
 it would be more at home on a PlayStation than on a PC. It has little regard for physics and no 
 real car damage modeling. Instead, it's a fast-paced game of unlimited powerslides and limited 
 but plentiful power-ups on one of several fairly well-designed tracks. With these power-ups, you'll 
 be able to shoot at an opponent in the lead, drop an obstacle on someone trailing behind, use a 
 temporary invulnerability shield, get a turbo boost, or receive an enhancement to one of the above 
 four. These power-ups are crucial to your success and basically constitute all of the game's strategy. 

 The actual racing in LEGO Racers boils down to the simplest of arcade racing principles - momentum. 
 Though some of the tracks are truly challenging, if you can gain a solid lead on your competitors, 
 your victory is more or less assured; conversely, if you let an opponent gain a solid lead, the 
 best you can hope for is second place. This principle holds true for every single track in the 
 game, which may prove frustrating for much younger LEGO aficionados not yet skilled in the art 
 of playing computer games. In fact, LEGO Racers doesn't even have adjustable difficulty levels, 
 which makes it seem as though it were intended for more experienced console gamers rather than 
 for the small children of a PC owner.  

 Nevertheless, LEGO Racers is still quite fun to play, not only because its racing is solid and fast-paced, 
 but also because it sounds good and looks great. You can't really be in any part of the game, not 
 the building editor, the options menu, nor the middle of a race, without hearing some sort of cheery, 
 upbeat cartoon music. And should you be in the middle of a race, you'll no doubt be surrounded 
 by the ambient growl of your car's LEGO engine, the blast of a cannon power-up, and the cheers 
 of triumph or shouts of dismay that you and other drivers will utter as you pass one another.  
 

 LEGO Racers looks even better than it sounds. When playing in 3D-accelerated mode, virtually everything 
 in the game looks bright, colorful, and clean - races take place with no evidence of slowdown or 
 pop-up, though getting into the occasional accident may cause some clipping. The texturing is minimal 
 for the most part, though that's to be expected in a game whose decor is based on single-colored 
 building blocks. However, beneath LEGO Racers' seemingly plain visage lies a good deal of subtle 
 detail. Seven different official LEGO sets are present in the game in the form of racing opponents, 
 track designs, and blocks for use with the build-your-own-car utility (which is somewhat limited 
 because little space is provided to add new blocks to your car) .  

 You can also create and customize your own LEGO driver using sets of over 20 hats, heads, torsos, 
 and legs, as well as variations on facial expression. And the drivers are quite possibly the best 
 thing about LEGO Racers. The art team has done a remarkable job animating every driver in more 
 or less exactly the way you'd expect a LEGO figure to move, if LEGO figures could somehow come 
 alive and move of their own accord. Even in the fanciful cutscenes, the characters' movements stay 
 true to the original plastic LEGO person: No one's hand unclenches from its perpetual C-shaped 
 claw, and no one's leg suddenly bends at the knee. However, all the drivers wave, cheer, jump up 
 and down, look about, and walk around in a way that lends each an appreciable and thoroughly enjoyable 
 helping of personality.  

 It's unfortunate, but aside from its fun if simple racing, good sound, and great graphics, LEGO 
 Racers doesn't really have much else to offer. It features several modes of play, but all are fairly 
 standard: a practice race, a timed race, a single race, and a circuit race (which is used to unlock 
 new tracks and cars) . Unfortunately, even though the circuit race mode offers six sets of four 
 tracks and a seventh, final race for a total of 25, 12 of the 25 are simply previous tracks run 
 in reverse. All told, including the practice track, that's really only 14 distinct races total, 
 and none of these is particularly long. Single-player races are three laps, though you can set 
 your two-player races to as many as five. And though the tracks are designed well enough for the 
 most part, unless you fall madly in love with a certain few, you may find yourself growing a bit 
 too familiar with them over time.  

 Regardless of its shortcomings, LEGO Racers is still quite fun. Its bright colors, generally simple 
 gameplay, and kid-friendly graphics and sound also make it a safe purchase for concerned parents, 
 though some of its more challenging tracks may not go over well with the very young.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (14 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: rgc19
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 29, 2008 2:21 pm PT
Review:  I used to play this game a ton. It was before I got into video games, before I owned any systems. 
 This is a simple game, so I'll give a simple review:
  
  The good: The items are fun, even if some are a bit overpowered (portal warp) You'd be surprised 
 how satisfying it is to hit someone with a cannonball while racing. The create a character/vehicle 
 is surprisingly deep, and a lot of fun. The tracks are creative and colorful, and full of shortcuts 
 to discover to shave time off your scores. The final level against Rocket Racer is satisfying and 
 hard (the first time at least) , and so are the ghost races with the girl racer (can't remember 
 her name)
  
  The bad: First off, there's really only 13 tracks (and no I don't count the same track backwards 
 as a different track) Not much to be said for the music, mostly a bland mixture of peppy tunes. 
 
  
  All in all, this was a really fun game, but I have trouble giving it a high score due to its over 
 simplistic gameplay (not completely a bad thing) and a lack of replay value (aside from replaying 
 it for nostalgia's sake) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calx3
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 19, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  Lego racers the first and only lego game to build and race a car. This is the third in the top 
 3 lego games of my opinion.
  
  Race through 4 lego worlds with 12 different tracks with 7 different leaders and 3 different trophies 
 to win. You can challange a friend split screen aswell.
  
  System requirements - operating system windows 95/98/2000/me/xp, CPU type and speed - pentium 166 
 or equivalent, hard drive space - 210mb, memory - 32mb, graphics - any 4mb directX 6.1, 3D compatible 
 graphics card, CD rom speed 4x or faster, Audio - any 100% directX 6.1 compatible soundcard, printer 
 - required to print the user manual, multiplayer - yes (sharing the keyboard) , internet playable: 
 No. Aged 3+!
  
  Also you meet flying spacoships on the 6th boss spooky. Build your car from scratch, using real 
 computerized lego bricks or select one of the pre-designed models + create and customise your driving 
 licence and a lego driver make them look really cool lol!
  
  Graphics-8/10 
  Gameplay-9/10
  Sound-9.5/10 Good theme tune at the main menu!
  Rating-8.0
  levels-9.5/10
 
  HD-no wayyy!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahj911211
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Ah, Lego Racers... one of the first video games I ever played. It may be over 8 years since it first 
 came out, but I still find this game to be fun. In fact, this game seems beyond the standards of 
 1999 video games, as far as the "fun" factor goes. 
  
  Back when I was 9 years old, I got this game for my birthday. It didn't seem like anything special 
 at first, but that was probably because I had hardly any experience with video games back when 
 I was 9. Then, on a day where I was playing this with my best friend, he beat the first circuit, 
 and I beat it soon after. Needless to say, we were hooked, and in a mad race to be the first to 
 take down Rocket Racer. Race after memorable race, we both reached Rocket Racer on the same day. 
 It took us quite awhile to finally get enough warps going to compete with him, but when my friend 
 finally beat him, we were really excited. Later that day, I beat Rocket for the first time too.
 
  
  Rocket Racer may have been an achievement, but Veronica Voltage was a challenge much higher in 
 altitude. We had to configure strategies in order to beat her ghost times on a few of the tracks. 
 Eventually, my friend did beat it, but it took quite awhile. Even to this day, I've never actually 
 beaten all the Veronica Voltage time trials, but I haven't really put the time into trying it in 
 quite a few years. 
  
  What I really liked most about this game, though, was the powerup system. It was unique and innovative. 
 If I remember correctly, the green was turbo, the red was attack, the blue was protection, and 
 the yellow was hazard, while the white bricks increased strength. That simple concept, with 16 
 powerup possibilities, was what really made this game great. And of course, there's no way I'll 
 ever forget all those handy shortcuts that my friend and I discovered along the way. The creativity 
 of the shortcuts is just astonishing some that I clearly remember include:
  -going through a waterfall into a hidden cave
  -using a certain pattern of colored gates to open 
 up a shortcut
  -using protection to suddenly make a section of a wall penetrable 
  -making use of an attack weapon in order to open otherwise inaccessible passages
  ... and so on. 
 
  
  To this day I still own Lego Racers, and I did play it a few months ago, so at least it still works. 
 This game, to me, brings back the most memories of any game I've ever owned. Maybe, someday, I'll 
 insert that CD-ROM back into the drive, and let those memories flow...
  
  Best racing game ever. Period.
  9.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 11, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Create your driver, create your car and ready to race. Lego Racers is made either for younger and 
 older players. The music is funny and cool. The maps are mixed, thats why you can love this game. In 
 the game are many shortcuts, so try to find them. The graphic is fine, and the biggest thing is, that 
 the game got almost no bugs. You can play against yor ghost, or against your opponent. Kids love that 
 game and so do I. Good and funny game and for bad days is perfect. . . . .. . . . .. Graphic: Pretty 
 Lego graphic, amazing.
  
  Sound: Funny and jumpy music in the game.
  
  Gameplay: Amazing gameplay for fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jack_sparrow_28
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 8, 2007 11:42 pm PT
Review:  Lego Racers is a fun game, plain and simple. You play as either a selected character, or you can 
 design your own driver and car using a modest creation system. You do basic races, until you get 
 into the finals, then you race the boss along with six other cars. These are fun, and the graphics 
 are funny. They're very simple, but they are colourful, and all the race tracks are varied, and 
 capture the feel of the area. The music is the same, all are kiddy styles of music, but they are 
 great for the levels.
  
  Lego Racers is a fun game all round. It may not be the most in depth game ever, but it is loads 
 of fun while it lasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huytttr
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 14, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  I was around around 7 or 6 when this game came out and I didn't know any better. I played it consecutivly 
 and i enjoyed the many features in the game. Basicly you build a racer out of blocks then build 
 a car for him to drive out of lego blocks, then make a linscense. You then race the leader of eachtype 
 of scenario in 4 different races and when u beat them you get to use their blocks for even more 
 possiblilities. I found the racing to be very fun. GAmeplay: is pretty fun. There is a lot of racing 
 going on but not too much going on besides that. You can get cool powerups that are fun to use. 
 I wis it had online play. I really do because it would be even more fun but it still had lasting 
 enjoyment. Graphics are kind plain to be true. There isnt much to see besides the tracks and the 
 lego cars. Sound: is funny. you can hear the lego guys kinda talk while your racing. and the horn 
 but thats it... Value: i dont know how much it is today but if your a parent and need to give something 
 to the kids that is fun and cheap this is for you. The value is kinda good cause it keeps getting 
 to be a little addictive after all these yars ive played this game. Overall this game is pretty 
 good game with solid features, but dont think that this game will keep you addictd for long. If 
 you liked this review please recommend it. Thank you.! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MelJ111
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 6, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  Best Racing Game out there! Definitely play this game! Customize your car with lego bricks, make 
 your character, all the good stuff!
  
  Race against champions to gain the privilege to race against Rocket Racer! On the track, the are 
 power-up bricks with cool powers, such as devious traps, speed, bomb attacks and defensive shields. 
 Also white small bricks to boost the power-up bricks.
  
  Music matches the game, and mood of the track. Graphics are fair enough, although not the best.
 
  
  Tilt is normal for a racing game, couldn't have been better.
  
  This game is fast moving and one of Lego's best!
  
  RACE!
  By M &amp; S 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenixan_akrau
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 9, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  I actually never owned this game, but a friend did, and really for the times when I did get to 
 play it, it was fun to me at that time many years back. It has enough creative elements to be a 
 game to stand on its own, but unfortunately, it's too easy to be really considered something good 
 for almost anyone.
  
  The graphics are good for representing everything as intended... that is... a feel as if everything 
 is built out of legos. There are some details in the levels that really set the feel of the environment.
 
  
  The sound is probably the game's worst point. The music is quirky and doesn't always set the mood 
 properly, but I guess the game itself is really quirky too. The sound of the cars are as you might 
 expect, and the sounds the character's make are probably as you could expect for the lego characters 
 most of the time.
  
  The game play itself is just too easy. There are original elements like having the ability to build 
 your own character just as you would with the lego bricks, and the car is very customizable as 
 well, though the space you're given is just too small, and it could have used just one or two spaces 
 more on the front and back of the vehicle. The power-ups are done in a way to set up a sort of 
 play comparable to Super Mario Kart, though not quite. The levels are easy to play through, so 
 the AI could have been better, I imagine.
  
  To someone who is a fan of the building blocks, or to a young kid who is at least slightly into 
 them, this could be something prized; however, to a casual gamer who is just looking for a racing 
 game on PC, this might not be a good choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboydb59
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 8, 2006 6:54 am PT
Review:  This is, strangely enough, a pretty fun game. But play Need for Speed a few times and you can beat 
 every race on this thing. It's just too *easy*.
  It is a Lego game, and famous part of Lego games is Not Being Able to Lose (ever tried Lego Star 
 wars, Lego Island, or Lego Island 2?)
  But here you actually can lose. And lose you will, if all you have is a keyboard (once again, my 
 dual analog gamepad P4WNS) and less than a year or two of gaming experience.
  Don't seriously think of getting this game unless
  a. You secretly think of yourself as a horrible 
 gamer, and you will never let anyone find your copy of it
  b. You're under 10
  c. You have a younger sibling, and so you buy it "as a birthday present".
  d. You have no pride, 
 or your reputation has already been ruined.
  
  Gameplay: Decent. On the higher circuits it can be almost a challenge. The basic idea is just like 
 Mario Kart or Diddy kong racing, basic  stuff. You can build 
 your car, which can be kind of fun.
  And of course, there's the secret passages, some of which can be pretty cool (and some aren't meant 
 to be there, like in Tribal Trails or whatever it's called when you cut across the pool in the 
 cave.)
  Powersliding is controlled by it's own button, not a handbrake, which seems pretty strange. And 
 there's a certain thrill in hiding in a spot overlooking the road and waiting for the AI to catch 
 up, then pounding them with guided missiles.
  
  Graphics: 3D, that's about all I can say. Tie fighter is five years older and it has better graphics.
 
  
  Sound: Not really good or bad.
  
  Value: Semi-high now that you could get it for 5 bucks.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: Okay, my history 
 of gaming goes something like this:
  -buys lego racers
  -plays that and backyard sports for like five years
  -buys madden 03
  -plays that for two years
 
  -buys madden 05
  -plays that for half a year, then -is given battlefront
  -plays that for a few months
  -is given need for speed hp2
  -plays three latest games for a 
 while, then
  -buys Jedi Outcast
  -is amazed, plays it for a month or two
  etc. In other words, before my gaming took off, this was a significant chunk of what I played. 
 So I like it a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: White_Spartan
Rating: 6.1
Date: May 2, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Now I don't usually write negative reviews for any game, but the frustration of this game drove 
 me to be harsh. The concept is cool, build your own racecar out of lego bricks and then drive it 
 around, but the racing element was poor. In fact, the most fun I had with this game was building 
 lego cars and driving them around the test circuit.
  
  The entire game looked cool. When I put the disk in I was greeted by a menu screen where i promptly 
 made my own driver and then proceeded to build him a car. I made it as cool as I could, sticking 
 on lances (my driver was a knight) and spoilers as well as lights. Then I proceeded to go straight 
 to campaign mode. I waited for the timer to countdown and when it did, the aggressive AI shot off, 
 leaving me to attempt to master the controls. They decided to harass and pick on me while I tried 
 to fight back, they rarely damaging each other. Like a pack of sharks they picked on me until they 
 once again pulled ahead, at which point I was safe until they lapped me again. This pattern proceeded 
 until the finish line. The race ended early with someone else a winner.
  
  That story puts the principle of Lego Racers' main flaw into view, it's too hard! The AI is over 
 aggressive, taking advantage of newer players and gutting them like a fish. Even in easy they seem 
 to be masters of the Grand Prix, outracing newbies like me easily. The level design was fun and 
 imaginative, featuring buildings made of Lego bricks, but there were also many hazards for a newb 
 to find and consequentaly get destroyed by. In fact the whole racing element of the game was something 
 I veered away from as I found that the ruthless computers seemed to like pounding my sorry butt.
 
  
  From then on I focused on building cars, in fact, the build function of the game is perhaps it's 
 best element. It's fun and easy to just build cool cars or even theme cars, I once built several 
 cars for some of my favorite Formula 1 drivers. It's just plain fun to build. Unfortunatly, the 
 extra sets were only unlockable by beating the atrociously hard single player so I was stuck with 
 the four starter sets and two starter frames.
  
  I never beat the single player, I think I was too frustrated after about 5 hours. I really tried 
 to like this game, but after the dissapointments I just gave up on it and so it still sits on my 
 shelf, waiting for a day when I might try the game again. But after my experiences 6 years ago, 
 it won't happen soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mice16
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 30, 2006 3:22 am PT
Review:  This is certainly one of the most entertaining games I've ever played... The build function is 
 amazing, taking into consideration the airodynamics of your vehicle, etc. (So you can't make a 
 block on wheels and have the fastest car in the game) You gain different sets by defeating the 
 campaign, which will add to your assortment of blocks. You also gain new peices to make your charecter 
 with, from a pirate, to a knight. The weapon system is a blast too, you pick up green blocks for 
 boosts, red blocks for weapons, blue blocks for sheilds, and yellow blocks for traps - and white 
 blocks, to upgrade all of the above. (example: red block= cannon ball, red block+ white block= 
 grappeling hook, red block+ 2 white blocks= magic wand, and red block+ 3 white blocks= homing missles.) 
 The multiplayer is splitscreen too, so you don't have to have a Local Area Network to play together! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captaincrazydj
Rating: 4.2
Date: Mar 25, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  This game is so challenging a 1 year-old could play it. It is the most boring game I have ever 
 played. I saw it once for only 97p they must be desperate. It's graphics are one thing but the 
 plot is RUBBISH!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! This is an insult to Lego. As it's building section does 
 not make sense, the designs are rubbish and the bricks aren't placed properly. This has got to 
 be the worst game in the world. Anyone who plays this is either an infant or a freak of nature. 
 I'm surprised they sold 1 copy. The mention of it makes me go to sleep. If you ever see this game 
 don't look at it it could bore you to death. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lingermania
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 17, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  Lego Racers is a classic, I played this game when i was about 8 year old. I won the game, i enjoyed 
 it; I got hooked on this game. I remember playing it, I had some good times. The value of the game 
 is quite good; the graphics is ok pretty good at that time actually, the sound is the same its 
 not grate it's just ok, and the game play is the best.
  I don't think this game is overrated for a 7, it's a grate game which i recommend adults playing 
 to; he he.
  
  Well thank you and i hope you enjoyd this review, Lingermania. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trakan
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 17, 2005 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Yes, I am ashamed to admit that I played this game. I am even more ashamed to admit that.... I loved 
 it. Ok, don't laugh. My little brother got it, I played it, I got hooked and kept playing until 
 I was done. It's fun, though. You get to build your car, build and name your driver, then race 
 Captain Redbeard, King Kahuka, Basil the Batlord, Johnny Thunder, Baron Von Baron, Gypsy Moth, 
 and Rocket Racer in that order on their four races in a row. If you beat them, you move in. One 
 problem was that the fourth, fifth, and sixth circuit races were the first three over again except 
 turned around, which was disappointing. But I enjoyed the rest of it, especially the driver's victory 
 dance in the end. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
