-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Leisure Suit Larry: Magna Cum Laude
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/leisuresuitlarrymcl/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  6, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 6.1, 42 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 1,303 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: VU Games
Developer: High Voltage Soft.
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Oct 5, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you can forgive its brain-dead gameplay and occasionally frustrating design, Magna Cum Laude 
 is a hysterically entertaining romp through a world of wacky sexual hijinks. 

  Times sure have changed since the last time a Leisure Suit Larry game hit store shelves. Once  
 the  name in sexually charged adventure gaming, the Leisure Suit Larry series has been altogether 
 dormant since the '90s. This could at least be partially attributed to the fact that the sort of 
 humor the series brought to the table was frequently being upstaged by increasingly foul and bawdy 
 humor in all other facets of the media. Now, more than half a decade after the last Leisure Suit 
 Larry, VU Games and developer High Voltage have brought out Leisure Suit Larry: Magna Cum Laude, 
 a total reenvisioning of the franchise both from a gameplay and content perspective. Gone are the 
 innuendo- and entendre-based gags of old, replaced by blatant, obscene, and downright insane humor 
 that rivals most modern-day Hollywood comedies in terms of sheer hilarity and pure shock value. 
 Unfortunately, also gone are the appreciable adventure gameplay stylings of old, replaced by myriad 
 shallow minigames that aren't particularly fun. However, if you're willing to forgive its brain-dead 
 gameplay and occasionally frustrating design, Magna Cum Laude is a hysterically entertaining romp 
 through the world of wacky sexual hijinks.  

          Finally, college life has been accurately depicted in a game. Thanks, Leisure Suit Larry: 
 Magna Cum Laude!     

  In Magna Cum Laude, you play as a college-aged loser by the name of Larry Loveage. This new Larry 
 is actually the nephew of the old-school namesake of the Leisure Suit Larry series, Larry Laffer. 
 Little Larry is just like his famous uncle, from his questionable method of dress and novelty-sized 
 head to his pathetic but undying love of the fairer sex. At the beginning of the game, it seems 
 as though Larry's desire to get with the ladies will only be achievable in dreams, but then, as 
 luck would have it, Larry sees a TV commercial for a hot new dating show called  Swingles , which 
 is coming to Larry's community college. He is immediately determined to become a  Swingles  contestant 
 so that he can try to win the heart (or at least get in the pants) of one of the three hot babes 
 featured on the show. After a fairly rough meeting with the host of  Swingles , Uma, Larry is informed 
 that the only way he'll ever have a chance in hell of appearing on  Swingles  is to prove to her 
 that he can actually get a girl to give him the time of day. Unlikely as that may be, Larry then 
 sets off on a quest to make his dream come true.  

  The main portions of Magna Cum Laude's story largely involve Larry's attempts to woo a series of 
 blatantly stereotypical women scattered about the campus and surrounding town. There's the highly 
 popular and ditzy cheerleader, the tough greaser/biker chick, the artsy French girl, the bookworm-turned 
 vixen/lesbian, and, in a nod to the  American Pie  films, a sex-obsessed and mildly satanic band 
 geek. To try to wear down the defenses of these girls, Larry has to jump through a series of hoops 
 to either prove himself to them or to just plain trick them. Typically, this involves a lot of 
 minigames and a lot of alcohol. Just like real life!  

  The primary minigame you'll find yourself faced with in Magna Cum Laude is the conversation minigame. 
 How do you turn a conversation with a woman into a game? Why, by putting a window at the bottom 
 of the screen and letting you navigate a smiley-faced sperm through a wacky obstacle course, of 
 course!  

  Sounds deranged, doesn't it? It's actually not all that bad. Basically, the way in which you steer 
 Larry's conversational course of lies and exaggerations is by controlling this happy little sperm. 
 You will frequently come upon sections in the little obstacle course with three icons, one of which 
 you will have no choice but to pass through. These represent things Larry will say next during 
 his conversation. By passing through the green icon, Larry will say the best thing possible. By 
 passing through a red icon, Larry will say something wholly unappealing, and thus he will begin 
 to lose the girl's interest. There are also other, context-sensitive icons that will appear from 
 time to time, some good and some bad. Also, you'll frequently have to navigate around a whole host 
 of other random, though dodgeable icons, like ones that will make you belch, and others that progressively 
 make Larry drunker (and thus make the sperm icon harder to move properly) . This is certainly an 
 inventive way to turn a conversation into a game, though it can be a little distracting at times, 
 especially when you're trying to pay attention to the dialogue.  

  Unfortunately, this is about the only inventive or interesting minigame that Magna Cum Laude throws 
 at you. The rest range from varying types of Space Channel 5-style rhythm games -- where you have 
 to match the controller commands called out by another character -- to basic "collect a whole bunch 
 of items and run away from bad guys while you do it" games. There's even a series of Tapper-inspired 
 games, as well as a simple analog-stick- or mouse-based version of the classic drinking game "quarters." 
 The variety may sound good, but each and every one of these games is simple to a fault -- and highly 
 repetitive.  

  The oversimplicity of these games is completely rooted in the minigames' designs themselves. However, 
 the blame for the repetitiveness of the games falls squarely on the overall game design and mission 
 structure. A fair number of Magna Cum Laude's missions require money or specific items -- or both -- to 
 activate. As you play, you'll have the ability to earn cash through a number of different side 
 games and quests strewn throughout each level. Similarly, you can buy required outfits and accessories 
 from a similar number of scattered locations. Unfortunately, all the minigames you have to play 
 are literally the same games you'll be playing during missions. Furthermore, only a scant couple 
 of the games actually net you much cash, meaning you'll have to play a lot of the same games over 
 and over and over again.  

          Without a doubt, this is the funniest game to come out so far this year.     

  Further 
 compounding the frustration of this sort of mission structuring is the game's problematic pacing -- at 
 least on the console versions. A number of missions require you to move through multiple sections 
 of the game's world, which actually amounts to no easy task. Every single specific area, be it 
 a dorm room or an outdoor quad, requires a load time of anywhere from 10 to 30 seconds. In fact, 
 only a sparing few areas actually provide you with short load times, and more often, you'll be 
 out of action for at least 20 seconds at a time. This  might  be permissible if it weren't for 
 the fact that you'll spend almost as much time loading as you will playing. The simple process 
 of walking out of a room, then out of a building and into an open area, and then into another building 
 can actually take upwards of a full minute and a half's worth of loading, at times. The whole game 
 itself is about a dozen hours long, though you have to wonder exactly how much of that time is 
 spent staring at a loading screen.  

  Also, the game sort of tries to appease you by providing erotic photos of both the polygonal and 
 "real-life" versions of the girls featured in the game as load screens, but unless you're the kind 
 of person who is immediately lulled into submission by the mere sight of a half-naked woman, it's 
 unlikely this will have any effect on the frustration-factor of the game's loading times. The good 
 news is that the PC version of the game is entirely devoid of these horrendous load times, which 
 pretty much makes that version of the game the most enjoyable one by default. The Xbox version's 
 load times are also somewhat shorter than the PlayStation 2's, but both have their lengthy loading 
 periods.  

  However, if you can find a way to look past the abhorrent console loading times and generally banal 
 gameplay, Magna Cum Laude is most certainly an entertaining experience, thanks largely to its irreverent 
 sense of humor.     

  Drawing inspiration from everything from  American Pie  to  National Lampoon's Animal House , Magna 
 Cum Laude's comedic quality is really quite astounding. The actual style of humor shifts frequently 
 between the raunchy and vulgar variety to the obscurely referential. The cast of characters Larry 
 encounters is pretty hilarious by itself, including his best male friend, a frequently drunk homeless 
 man known only as The Commissar; a comically mismatched gay couple, featuring an effeminate middle-aged 
 gay bar owner and a muscular, Speedo-clad German fellow named Helmut; a porno fairy -- sporting a 
 pink tutu and a massive gut and moustache -- who periodically appears to bestow wildly inappropriate 
 advice and gifts; and a talking arcade machine based on the movie  Road House , who frequently 
 berates Larry during one of the episodes with the girls and even manages to show up at Larry's 
 dorm room at one point. How, you ask? "367 extension cords -- most of them stolen!"  

          The game's scattershot collection of minigames isn't terrible, but none of them are especially 
 engaging by themselves.     

  That last bit is actually a pretty good example of the kind of insane dialogue and scenarios featured 
 throughout most of the game. When the game isn't making bizarrely obscure references to films like 
  Dunston Checks In  and  Baby Geniuses , it's sticking Larry in the midst of a gay-themed musical 
 number based on the song "Summer Nights" from  Grease , or it's having Larry streak through a bar 
 to the tune of  The Benny Hill Show  to impress a lesbian (who Larry himself helped "discover" 
 her true sexual orientation) . The incredible variety of situations the game puts in front of you 
 is highly entertaining, to say the least. Occasionally, some of the gags swing a little too far 
 into dismally obvious territory (such as the periodic bouts with fart humor) , but, for the most 
 part, the game rarely features a dull moment (outside of the repetitive minigames and loading screens, 
 that is) .  

  If it isn't already obvious at this point, Magna Cum Laude is very much an M-rated game, and, in 
 fact, it pushes some of the boundaries of what we've seen in M-rated games up to this point, mainly 
 with regard to sexuality and dialogue. This game is remarkably politically incorrect, and very 
 few, if any, subjects or social taboos are left unchecked. Rampant swearing and polygonal nudity 
 is all over the place, as well as more than a fair share of crazy sex scenes, including one that 
 borders on pornographic. Of course, the game never gets full-frontal on you, and aside from breasts 
 and posteriors, characters' naughty bits and the serious sex scenes are mostly covered over by 
 giant "CENSORED" boxes -- which actually sort of add to the whole humorous aspect of the situation. 
 All the swearing and offensive joking, thankfully, manages to work well and never feels forced, 
 largely due to the really excellent voice acting and writing. Unfortunately, we can't say quite 
 the same thing about the sex stuff. Make no mistake, it's quite funny to watch how each sexual 
 scenario with Larry manages to go raucously awry, but whatever supposed enticement is to be derived 
 from staring at a polygonal model of a nude woman just isn't there, despite the fact that the game 
 really seems to think it is. In fact, the nudity mostly comes across as pretty benign and uninteresting. 

  Apart from all that polygonal bumping and grinding and what have you, Magna Cum Laude is a pretty 
 good-looking game. Larry's character model shows a lot of detail, as do many of the featured characters 
 in the game. The surrounding environments, like Larry's school campus or the streets of the rough 
 part of town, are all appropriately exaggerated-looking, giving the game sort of a cartoonish feel. 
 The game also features a lot of subtle bits of visual hilarity that you'll have to explore to find, 
 like a series of sorority house bedrooms featuring the names of all the girls from  The Facts of 
 Life  and a vending machine near Larry's dorm room that dispenses werewolf repellent, for some 
 inexplicable reason. For the most part, the game performs well enough from a technical perspective, 
 although you will notice some occasional frame rate issues while walking around (more so on the 
 PS2 than on the Xbox) , and the camera does have its infrequently annoying moments. Also, during 
 our testing, the PC version occasionally hitched on certain frames, seemingly at random, which 
 was a tad bit distracting when trying to play the rhythm-based games.  

          Yes, you can see this girl naked... eventually. Whether that's a good thing or not is entirely 
 up to you     

  We've already raved at length about the solid voice acting, but the acting itself is not the only 
 boon when it comes to the dialogue. The overall sound design provides you a lot of fun opportunities 
 to discover random bits of comedy in strange places. Just walk up to one group of people or another, 
 and launch into some strange and funny conversations that are completely outside of what you're 
 doing. Then you'll know what we mean. The only problem with this is that each time you walk up 
 to a group, the exchange always begins with the same line, and the only time you'll hear a new 
 one is if you stay in that level and walk back to the group a second or third time. If you go elsewhere 
 and have to reload that level, it starts all over again; this can become a little repetitive. The 
 game also features some bizarre licensed music, which, despite consisting of a seemingly ill-fitting 
 roster of artists -- like 2 Live Crew, Mtley Cre, and Right Said Fred -- somehow just works 
 in the context of the game.  

  When it comes right down to it, Leisure Suit Larry: Magna Cum Laude is not a recommendable "game," 
 per se, so much as it is a recommendable experience. The game portions found here are largely insignificant 
 and are actually pretty uninteresting as a whole, but the comedically brilliant story, characters, 
 and dialogue, as well as the clever and profane tone of it all, really do make this a game worth 
 playing through for anybody who enjoys a particularly adult brand of humor. Of course, if you had 
 any serious affection for the old Leisure Suit Larry games, it's quite possible that you'll be 
 offended by how little this game resembles its predecessors, both in humor and in gameplay. But, 
 if you can put the past aside and simply let this game do its thing, it'll likely provide you with 
 more than enough laughs.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (36 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: rezpatriot
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Yeah I brought this game, I admit it. I had to really. I think the only game I completed as a kid 
 was Leisure suit larry in the land of lounge lizards. Really the pitfall of my life. But its actually 
 quite a good game, and not half as pornographic as you would think, the first game that is. Magna 
 Cum Laude really is delving into sexual depravity and college humour that will tickle your gag 
 reflexes. The jokes are one liners not aimed at woman in particular but more aimed at their cleavage. 
 
  Its a bit sparse from actual puzzles, combo moves and most of this game is flash games that you 
 would expect on a free Java Game Site, but the storyline is better than some games I had played 
 recently, and the characters are quite funny. If you can life and don't still laugh at three letter 
 words ending in X then you might just like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattsnibbs
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 29, 2008 2:27 am PT
Review:  This game is quite funny in spots and the story while passable is not overly creative (basically 
 you need to get laid to become popular) .
  
  This game only really exists for the humor and for the sex/nudity and this is not really enough 
 to sustain the game none of the girls are really that interesting that you feel you must virtually 
 'have' them.
  
  It is kind of shallow and does really treat sex as a joke, the franchise itself hasn't grown up 
 at all since the late 80's through to the mid 90's predecessors.
  
  That being said it is as always a bit of escapism, the graphics are good with out being proficient, 
 but it's not trying to break ground in that respect withthe cartoonish style suiting the humor.
 
  
  The game also has quite a few repetitive minigames and the difficulty as you progress can be really 
 quite difficult.
  
  As always it entertains but once the novelty of a game that deals openly with sex wears off there 
 isn't a real lot more here 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samrat_Ashok
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 4:00 am PT
Review:  When I bought this game I was in two minds. The stuff I'd heard about it was not good. but when 
 I began playing it, and got the hang of the simple (and redundant) mini games, which basically 
 are what the game is all about, I found it fairly enjoyable.
  I have not played the games in the series before this, so I cannot compare, but in this game, the 
 best thing was the dialogue. I found it more than worth to repeate the sperm mini game time and 
 again just to hear what Larry says in the different instances. If you've got a stomach for raw 
 humour, this is your game, it's brimming with it. Infact, the humour is all that makes the game 
 worth it. I mean, the actual gameplay has got no more depth than a puddle, the graphics are nice 
 and cartoony, but not outstanding, and the game as a whole has no re-playbility at all. Had it 
 not been for the humour it would have been worthless.
  All in all, not a game for very serious gamers I think. A casual adult themed game you can play 
 if you're bored, or if you wan't a break from all the FPSs and RTSs.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kragspire
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 10, 2008 4:40 am PT
Review:  I've been playing Leisure Suit Larry games since the 1980s. I've seen the series evolve from EGA 
 pixels to full production cartoon mayhem. Even as the technology improved, Leisure Suit Larry always 
 stayed true to the classic adventure game format. This unfortunately is not the case with Leisure 
 Suit Larry: Magna Cum Laude, as the main focus of gameplay is swapped for repetitive mini-games. 
 Even with the lack of adventure gaming elements, this game has some saving grace. The humor and 
 dialog is outstanding, making this one of the funniest games to be released in a long time.
  
  The box title is deceiving, as this time around you play as Larry Laffer's nephew, who just 
 happens to also be named Larry. The game takes place on a college campus, where all walks of life 
 are represented in stereotypical forms. You have everything from the smug college nerds to loud 
 drunken frat boys. The highlight of the game however is the babes, which are in abundance this 
 time around. There is also a hit reality dating show which shows up looking for fresh meat to exploit 
 on their nightly TV show. If you have not gotten the main idea by now, you might want to stop reading 
 and play something rated T for Teen.
  
  As Larry attempts to get each of these college beauties into the sack, he will need to undergo 
 some repetitive mini-games. Almost all of these mini-games are rip-offs of other video games, such 
 as Tapper, Space Channel 5, and Dance Dance Revolution. There is also plenty of dialog between 
 Larry and the girls, which is played out in a mini-game where you dodge objects while trying to 
 hit the right ones. Although the humor and dialog is well written, the gameplay becomes dull and 
 repetitive. It would have been nice to see some focus on puzzle solving instead of mindless arcade 
 games. The type of gameplay presented in LSL: MCL makes me wonder what the target audience was, 
 kids or adults?
  
  The lack of original LSL creator Al Lowe shows in LSL: MCL. In fact, there is a well written response 
 to the game by him (www. allowe. com) , and how he was labeled an outcast towards the project. This 
 is solid proof that the golden days of Sierra On-Line are dead and gone, replaced with a younger 
 generation who does a good job -- but fails to trump the originals. If you are looking for a streamlined 
 Leisure Suit Larry game with lack of substance, this might just be your cup of tea. Compare it 
 to Revenge of the Nerds 3 & 4, which tries to cash-in on the one time classics. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fraserbaker
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Ok so this game is not the best, but the things that it lacks in game play and diversity are certainly 
 made up for in comedy and story. To be honest you probably won't want to play this game through 
 another time but the one time you play will have you laughing at wacky predicaments in which you 
 can get Larry.
  The puzzle start of as being quite fun and are amusing a few times through with different characters 
 that you compete against but after a while they all become monotonous and a bit pointless, the 
 fact you can skip challenges means you spend the second half of the game skipping through the challenges 
 to the funny parts.
  Probably not a game I would rush out and buy for full price but if you can get it cheap it is definitely 
 worth it for the fun factor, and the you get to see some boobies even if they are animation !!!
 
  
  FB 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buzz86
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 15, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Who remembers the original Leisure Suit Larry? It was a very old game where you walk around the 
 streets in the hope to get laid. The graphics were poor, the sound was terrible, the game play 
 was basic but the story was funny. Well thats pretty much this newer version of Larry. The sound 
 and graphics are alot better but the game is still about the same. 
  
  Players are faced with very repedative tasks to try and gain enough points to possible reach the 
 all time goal of getting Larry some luck with a lady. So the game play isn't all that great. 
 
  
  The storyline on the other hand is great. The situations that you get Larry into are hilarious! 
 It is a very vulgar and crude story that left me in tears. I say, play this game for a good laugh 
 not for its game play. :-)
  
  I am hoping that they will make more games like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: belboz
Rating: 5.1
Date: Jul 13, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  Boring, extremely repetitive game play. If you like console type click this sequence games you 
 might like it, but if you are not, be prepared to be put of by long mini games. There are no puzzles 
 (you are told what to do all the way through) , and frankly not much fun., so if you are looking 
 for an adventure game, look elsewhere.
  
  Some jokes and conversations are good and often very funny, but the sheer amount of torture involved 
 with the mini games kills almost all the fun.
  
  The cartoonish graphics are decent and and the voice acting good. Finally I was also surprised 
 by the many slow Loading screens that appeared on my state of the art 2007 rig. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 16, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Among those of us old enough to have played it, the Leisure Suit Larry series has been 
 a real cherished memory. The well-loved adventure series stood out thanks to fantastic humor and 
 adult situations. Now, to the delight of kids over 17. Anyways in this game rather than focusing 
 on the further adventures of Larry Laffer is following his Nefew named Larry Lovage. So there is 
 a new game show and the younger larry's college and he trys to get on it. To get on the game show 
 Larry will have to try to get into the pants of nearly every lady on the campus lol. Also though 
 out the game you will have to work in a gay bar, drink lots of alcohol, hustle some whores, drink 
 a little cough syrup, and try not to get caught peeing in the quad. Anyways much of gameplay has 
 you steering a small, smiling sperm cell around various scrolling obstacles. You're trying to build 
 up a heart meter and keep it full till the conversation's end. If you hit a belch, you lose some 
 heart. If you hit a camera, you lose heart as well but you're compensated with a close-up of the 
 girl's breasts. Most of the mini games are pretty mindless and easy, but the story and the humor 
 is funny.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are good there are lots of humorous details and plenty of cool animations. 
 And also the artists for Leisure Suit Larry have succeeded admirably in making polygraphic charaters 
 hot and sex. Sound: The voice acting is quite good across the broad range of characters. The music 
 fits the mood.
  
  Value: All in all this is good game, but compared to the older Larry games, it's completely diffrent. 
 People who where old enough or remember playing the older games may be a little dissapointed.
 
  I give this game 8 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CooperTeam
Rating: 5.9
Date: Mar 1, 2007 10:27 pm PT
Review:  I can't really say much about this game. I was kinda expecting a more... ROBUST (best word I can 
 think of) kind of gameplay. I was not expecting this to actually completely ADULT ORIENTED. I was 
 so in love with the way they originally did all the Laffer series games. This is one that I can't 
 say I am proud of. I honestly can't believe Sierra would allow such a game on the market, they 
 used to be so... well... concervative about their games. This is more of a publicity stunt if you 
 ask me. About as bad as Playboy The Mansion. The humor is there, but the adult orientation was 
 a bit overdone. I was so happy with the way they used to do the series as an adventure game like 
 Space Quest sereis or Kings Quest series.
  
  GRAPHICS
  =========
  Okay, tyhe graphics are very well done and very put together, compaired to some games that make 
 cartoon style 3D. They did do a good job of making a very nice graphical world as well as funny, 
 humorous characters. But that's about all I can say in this department.
  
  CONTROL
  =========
  Okay, the controls are a little squirrely at first, but once you get used to some 
 of the gameplay, you sorta fit right into it. I will say the addition of mini games in the game 
 is a benefit to people who want to play additional games that you get tired of on Windows PC (Solitaire, 
 for starters) . Games like Whack A Pole, Quarters, and the Simon Says wannabe games, are a nice 
 added feature and do enjoying playing from time to time. The Quarters game is especially challenging, 
 if you don't use the rubber quarter (Makes it easier to win the Quarters game) . The adventure part 
 is not what I would expect from a game like this. I was actually hoping it would fit right in with 
 the rest of the Laffer series that Sierra was so famous for from the beginning. The fact that it 
 had adult elements (Yes, nudity) is not really that nice a touch to add to the game. (Okay, there 
 was some nudity to Larry 6 &amp; 7, but at least it was done with taste, not flaunted like this 
 game is)
  
  OVERALL
  ========
  If you are used to the old Laffer series, then trust me when I say it stopped with Larry 7, this 
 one is just for people who have nothing better to do than to buy a game with the point of seeing 
 nudity. Hey, don't get me wrong, I like nudity as much as the next person, but this is not what 
 the Laffer series was suppose to be about. It was about sexual humor with a story about a loser 
 that a lot of us can somewhat relate to, not flaunting humor where every chic wanted to do him 
 anyways. As for my score for this game, it's a gift compaired to what it should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: russirwin
Rating: 1.8
Date: Feb 23, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  if you bought this game CONGRATULATIONS you are just as dumb as i am. i would rather play scrabble 
 w/ my parents. there is no need to elaborate this is one of the stupidest games i ever played. 
 well i will admit it was amusing for the first 2 or 3 minutes after that i honestly deleted it 
 from my system and threw it away. if i ever see larry i am gonna kick his ass. i have to write 
 100 words about this retarded game so..... games were unbelievably tedious. women were hot though (real 
 photos) but all seemed very much the same after a very short time. i had a very strong feeling 
 going into the game yet like the genius i am i still bought it. please dont by this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WeaselBiggs
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 11, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Leisure Suit Larry. Those three words define one of the guilty pleasures of my childhood. I remember 
 when my father came home after work when I was around five or six years old, with the floppies 
 for "Land of the Lounge Lizards". I remember him playing with my uncle, the both of them chuckling 
 like shy nerds in front of an attractive woman. I snuck in and asked my dad what was going on, 
 and he showed me the first LSL in its VGA and text-based glory. I think I spent five minutes having 
 Larry stand in front of that urinal, typing "PEE" repeatedly...
  
  I've distractedly followed the series since then, despite the fact that I wasn't allowed to even 
 look at the box of an LSL game until I reached my teens. The last great chapter was Love for Sail, 
 which is a pain to run properly on XP, nowadays. Even so, I don't know if you've noticed, but as 
 the series' technical prowess improved, its trademark raunchy content grew more and more sedate. 
 There's nothing quite like the pixellized gangbangs of the first game, with that flashing, pulsating 
 "CENSORED" notice covering the frolicking couple's sexual antics.
  
  I'll emphasize on that Up to Magna Cum Laude, Larry actually DID IT. He HAD SEX. Now, I ask you, 
 what good is a Leisure Suit Larry without sex? It's not that good, frankly, especially when the 
 fourty year-old virgin's awful machismo is replaced with his nephew's loser tendencies.
  
  That's the first problem of MCL. Larry Lovage is NOT Larry Laffer. Not only in body, but also in 
 mind. Instead, we're presented with National Lampoon jokes, references to college clichs and cutscenes 
 that almost never give you the feeling of having finally scored that one babe.
  
  Then there's the presentation of the game. I don't mind the cartoony, Xbox-port-grade graphics, 
 since Magna Cum Laude is obviously intended to be a bargain bin candidate. What I do mind, however, 
 is the braindead gameplay mentioned in the actual review. I'll explain.
  
  The Larry series is comprised of adventure games. Adventure games imply puzzle-solving, logical 
 deduction, fetch quests and the like. What we've got here is an endless slew of minigames designed 
 by uninspired consultants. Previous Larry titles had it right. Earning the confidence of one of 
 your "targets" required you to perform DIVERSIFIED feats, like replacing the cover of "Prude and 
 Proud" with an erotic novel's or beating her to a round of modified strip poker. In Magna Cum Laude, 
 scoring with chicks is as easy as following a given sequence on your keyboard or gamepad.
  
  Sure, there's other minigames that try and add some "diversity" to the presentation, but it 
 doesn't change the fact that Magna Cum Laude feels like a dumbed-down Indigo Prophecy. In that 
 last game, your performance in the minigames determined how Lucas Kane survived or died, and the 
 changes were dynamic and immediate. In Magna Cum Laude, you're simply presented with a quick little 
 failure animation and are given the chance to try again. There's no factual impact on your progress, 
 other than the fact that you're asked if you'd like to try again. The most forced of them has to 
 be the conversation minigame, which eventually robs you of the fun of listening to the game's thankfully 
 hilarious dialogues.
  
  Considering all this, I'd reccomend this title only to desperate fans of the series or to bargain 
 bin hunters in the need of a quick fill of immature sexual innuendo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fasdaqw
Rating: 6.1
Date: Apr 18, 2006 4:41 am PT
Review:  Leisure suit larry magna cum laude is good only for a short time. Get a strategy guide beat it 
 and then you have my word you will never want to play it again. I have to admit it is very funny 
 and has a lot of naked women but it stays there. I bought it, finished it and then i never played 
 it again. It is not the kind of game that you will play and have it there and play it even after 
 you beat it. The graphics are not very good and the gameplay also. The only good thing with the 
 game is the jokes and the story line. Apart from this, it is a common boring game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magnaboy
Rating: 1.8
Date: Mar 8, 2006 2:46 am PT
Review:  Compared to previous games in the LSL franchise, this is an absolute joke. Past LSLs have been 
 witty and smart. What happened?
  
  It is boring and repetitive. How anyone could attach the LSL name to it is beyond me. The in-built 
 games and challenges grow tiring as the game goes through and you certainly get sick of the sperm 
 bar.
  
  I really wish I could find at least one nice thing to say about the game, but really I cant.
 
  
  Anyone who has played any of the Larry games in the past is sure to be disappointed, it might have 
 nicer graphics but the gameplay pales by comparison. Dont waste your time, look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savvas79
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 7, 2006 1:12 am PT
Review:  Hmm.. When you choose to play a game such as Leisure don, t expect to be intrigued by its difficult 
 puzzles, the re-playability or action! Magna Cum Laude is like a comedy/teen film where PARTY is 
 the word from the beginning to the end!! You see it, you throw some laughs and thats it! 
  
  Personally, I played Larry when I wanted a simple game that would allow me to relax and have 
 some fun without troubling my self too much!!
  
  P. S.: Don't play the game for the nude cartoon girls ( Unless you are 14 years old or something) ! 
 If you buy the game based only at this criteria It's better to buy a Playboy or even better search 
 the Internet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edubuccaneer
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 19, 2006 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Some game designers look for ways to innovate old formulas. So they come up with fresh new looks, 
 style and gameplay. Sometimes that doesn't work. Larry: MCL unfortunately takes all the fond memories 
 from past few games and put them in a blender.
  
  Why?
  
  Old Larry games had charm. They bluffed. Never explicit. They were good and funny because of that 
 'innocence'. This game takes all of that away and shows it all. Nothing is subtle. 
  
  It turns an adventure game into a adolescent pleasing, eye-popping and bodily fluid game. That's 
 all... and the women don't really look good! Sorry kiddies, not worth playing it in hiding from 
 your parents!
  
  The minigames are funny but get old as quick as they come. 
  
  The only thing worth it doing is listening to the dialogs. Some are funny.
  
  That's about 
 it.
  
  I reccomend a bunch of stuff other than this. But if you are still curious, take a look for yourself, 
 just don't say I didn't warn you. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djnet
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 18, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Times sure have changed since the last time a Leisure Suit Larry game hit store shelves. Once the 
 name in sexually charged adventure gaming, the Leisure Suit Larry series has been altogether dormant 
 since the '90s. This could at least be partially attributed to the fact that the sort of humor 
 the series brought to the table was frequently being upstaged by increasingly foul and bawdy humor 
 in all other facets of the media. Now, more than half a decade after the last Leisure Suit Larry, 
 VU Games and developer High Voltage have brought out Leisure Suit Larry: Magna Cum Laude, a total 
 reenvisioning of the franchise both from a gameplay and content perspective. Gone are the innuendo- 
 and entendre-based gags of old, replaced by blatant, obscene, and downright insane humor that rivals 
 most modern-day Hollywood comedies in terms of sheer hilarity and pure shock value. Unfortunately, 
 also gone are the appreciable adventure gameplay stylings of old, replaced by myriad shallow minigames 
 that aren't particularly fun. However, if you're willing to forgive its brain-dead gameplay and 
 occasionally frustrating design, Magna Cum Laude is a hysterically entertaining romp through the 
 world of wacky sexual hijinks. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vicious_scorpio
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 20, 2005 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Okay so Ive just finished the game and here I go writing its review
  
  Whats the Game About?
  In Leisure Suit Larry: Magna Cum Laude (LSL: MCL) you basically play a 
 college student named Larry Lovage who tries to get on a show called Swingles by obtaining tokens 
 of affection from several chicks on the college campus. The tokens of affection are obtained through 
 a series of mini-games where you try to impress the girl and prove your worth.
  
  Whats Good about the Game?
  This game is hilarious. If youre the kind of person who likes movies 
 like American Pie, and finds the concept of the story of a college kid whos trying to get laid 
 funny, then youll certainly like this game. The girls (theres about 15 of them) all have different 
 personalities and its funny to see how Larry ends up with the chick (for those whove already 
 played the game and are reading this, you cant possibly tell me that the ending with Koko wasnt 
 unexpected or hilarious!) . Whats good is that all the mini-games and cut-scenes in the game can 
 be played back whenever you like during the game. What makes this game unique is that it IS unique. 
 Theres no other game out there (at least that I know of) that is like this game in any regards. 
 There's obviously content in here that isn't for kids and a lot of people find that appealing unless 
 of course you lack a libido.
  
  Whats Bad?
  There are a few cons to this game. Anyone who plays it will find out soon that its basically the 
 same mini-games over and over (and over) again which gets frustrating and boring quick. If this 
 game was entirely about the mini-games I would have stopped playing after the first hour  but 
 its not  its about Larry, his college hijinks, and the story with all 15 of the chicks. If you 
 go into this game thinking its going to be an in depth gaming experience thats innovative and 
 pushes the bar higher for future games then youll be disappointed. The only reason why I kept 
 playing the game was because I treated the game like it was a movie always wanting to know what 
 was going to happen next and how things were going to end up which leads me to my next point that 
 this game was too short. It took me less than 10 hours to finish it (for 100% completion it required 
 about 11) but this may have been necessary for this style of game play.
  
  Conclusion
  LSL: MCL is a fun game to play when you could use a laugh but the in depth gaming experience that 
 a lot of gamers need just isnt there in this game. This game only provides about 10 hours of entertainment 
 and for about the same amount of money that you would spend to buy this game Im sure there are 
 other games out there that would provide the same level of entertainment (if not more) for a much 
 longer time. However this game is unique for I havent played any other game that was like it  
 and trust me, if I did I would know. Its not everyday that you play a game like this that pushes 
 the limits of outright being banned (and from what I heard it was banned in Australia) . Its definitely 
 worth a rent, maybe a buy, and if you treat the game as if it was a movie rather than a game, then 
 its easy to overlook its repetitiveness and lack of depth. I definitely laughed a lot (to those 
 whove played the game... is this dishwasher safe?) and am looking forward to a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: V_E_I_L
Rating: 5.3
Date: Nov 5, 2005 3:33 pm PT
Review:  A fine graphic game but no miticulas or some special effects etc. Guys may be able to understand 
 me because its a sex related game but dont satisfies the user fully.
  Playing this series is all the WASTE OF TIME.
  It is the coming of age story about Larry Lovage, 
 nephew of Larry Laffer, the series' original lovable loser. In this Lovage starts as a pathetic 
 loser enrolled at Community College who spends most of his time in his dorm room, or on campus 
 striking out with women. After hearing about a reality TV dating show visiting his college campus, 
 he resolves to revitalize his life and win. Over the course of the game, Larry sets out on an epic 
 search for love and finds that things don't always go as planned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 13, 2005 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Maybe if this had been a movie entitled National Lampoon Presents: Leisure Suit Larry  Magna 
 cum Laude, it would have been a funny flick. As a game, however, it basically sucks. This is too 
 bad, because there is some clever writing, some funny dialog, and a lot of colorful (albeit stereotyped) 
 characters. However, the core gameplay consists almost solely of boring, repetitive, and badly 
 outdated minigames. This hardly feels like a game, and since it lacks the open-ended sandbox feeling 
 of a game like Postal 2, theres not much good that can be said about it. The best that can be 
 said about this game is that you can get some laughs out of it, as long as youre not expecting 
 too much, but you won't find much of a game.
  
  The premise of the game is that you have to get Larry to bed a bunch of women on campus in order 
 to get onto the TV dating show Swingles. Accomplishing this basically means going up to them, 
 talking to them, and then getting past a minigame. Once you have done this four or five times, 
 the girl is yours, and the game rewards you with a cut scene. There is a tapper minigame, rhythm 
 minigames that have you tap keys along with arrows on the screen, and a dialog minigames. The dialog 
 minigames is the only fun one. Everything else is uninspired garbage. About a third of the game 
 is button-mashing rhythm games. How could somebody release a game like this and think that its 
 somehow competitive with what the gaming world has to offer? The game recycles minigames over and 
 over again with different situations. Its repetitive, occasionally frustrating, and usually just 
 plain boring. 
  
  The only fun minigame is the dialog minigames. In it, you guide Larry through a conversation by 
 steering a swimming sperm at the bottom of the screen around obstacles. If you hit an obstacle, 
 Larry screws up the conversation. These parts can be quite funny, and they offer a lot of replayability. 
 Even these minigames though, dont have any depth and can become tiresome.
  
  Graphics-wise, this game is definitely nothing special to look at. As you might expect, the limitations 
 of the Playstation 2 and X-Box show up on the screen of your PC. The characters are somewhat blocky, 
 and the environments are all plain looking and ugly. The loading zones are small and the loading 
 times are frequent. The loading times are almost as long as Half-Life 2, a game with much better 
 graphics and technology. The audio for the game is pretty good though. The voice acting is amusing 
 and suitably cartoony. Without it, the game probably would have gone from mediocre to bad.
  
  Magna cum Laude has a lot of content to it, provided you feel like sitting through it. Larry 
 can bed a total of about 15 or 20 girls in the game, and between them theres tons of dialog and 
 lots of minigames. Unfortunately, the funny content isn't wrapped up in a good package. There are 
 some laughs here, but if you want some comic sexual mishaps, try renting American Pie instead. 
 It's cheaper and shorter.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniper
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 5, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  Playing the PC version of Leisure Suit Larry: Magna Cum Laude made me remember the good times (and 
 bad times) I experienced at University. The characters in LSL may seem like caricatures, but I 
 actually knew people like that in residence.
  
  The dialogues and monologues of Larry made me want to keep playing, even though the mini-games 
 were initially frustrating. But even these sessions grew on me, once I got the hang of them. Some 
 reviewers have slammed it for being immature or puerile, but I think they missed the point, or 
 they don't have a good sense of humour. The game is downright hilarious, and it made me laugh out 
 loud (okay, so I'm puerile) .
  
  Besides the excellent voice acting, the graphics of LSL aren't bad, either. While the textures 
 are low-resolution, the cartoon-like art direction and colourful levels are easy on the eyes. Bottom 
 line? Despite an average score, this one's a keeper, because there's no other game like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: valve_89
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 26, 2005 2:27 am PT
Review:  I saw it , I bought it and I played it. It's a fantastic, comedy sexual game that you can play.
 
  The Larry's story continues, so now you are the Larry's nephew and you must do mini games, or 
 something similar. I lough always with this game, I like it, but it isn't perfect.
  There are many ways to do mini games, and you must talk with beautiful girls.
  I put it to Old-school 
 game, because I saw and played Larry 1 and Larry 6 in DOS mode. There were good games.
  Then I put it a 5 on Gameplay, because always is the same mini games.
  The graphics are right, 
 and the sound too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjhrules
Rating: 2.4
Date: Dec 19, 2004 4:03 am PT
Review:  There is only one thing to say about this game, it's an insult to the old Larry games. The developers 
 said they didn't think an adventure game would sell today, and mayby they are right because people 
 are getting to stupid to play anything wich a requires a bit of logic thinking. But that doesn't 
 mean that they sould make money of a famous game title such as Larry. If you have played any of 
 the old Larry games and are considering to buy this one, DON'T. Instead of a great and difficult 
 adventure there are a few "mini-games" to play. 
  
  This game is no challenge at all and has actually nothing to to with the old Larry games.
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: peacsea
Rating: 5.6
Date: Nov 28, 2004 3:54 pm PT
Review:  I played the original game and found it to be quite fun. I wasn't too sure about this one, but 
 thought, why not and gave it a try. Although some of the jokes and comments are funny, overall 
 it's just really not worth the bucks. The mini games become VERY repetative VERY fast (I've only 
 played one day... bored of them)
  
  The graphics are okay for this game - they appear cartoonish and suits the environment quite well. 
 The music is funny as you stroll down memory lane of the late 80's, early 90's ("me so horny" - 
 lol, who would have thought that 2livecrew would make it into a video game???) 
  
  Overall, the game isn't AWEFUL, but it's certainly not one I could recommend to anyone wanting 
 a "good" game to play. There's not much challange, not much story - just some laughs here and there 
 with a lot of silly mini games that you can master after your first attempt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 3.9
Date: Nov 20, 2004 11:22 pm PT
Review:  I have to begin this review by saying that I have played and finished every game in the Larry series. 
 I have always loved the games. The humor, while crude was exceptionally funny. And the gameplay 
 was always good with some great puzzles. So I was so happy to see that Larry was coming back to 
 the PC.
  
  That is where my happiness ends. Larry has not come back. It is his nephew who is a shell of Larry's 
 former self. Someone decided that all those good puzzles were a crock and that we the game player 
 would be much happier playing mini-games to progress through the entire story. What happened to 
 adventure gaming in the Larry series. It is definitely not in this title. Now you may ask how bad 
 is it. Well, I had to play quarters with each woman, several varients of DDR type gameplay but 
 with a keyboard, several varients of pong and navigating a sperm through a maze of conversation 
 pieces. That is it. Play all those games over and over. There are only four mini-games, but you 
 will play them in different skins over and over and over. And OVER!!!! Not even gratuetous nudity 
 (I played the AO rated version) could overcome the wrechedness of this game. I would have to say 
 that this game is in my top five worst games, ever.
  
  The only saving grace from complete disaster is the script. The dialogue is absolutely hysterical. 
 The Road House videogame, Dunstin Checks in references, tabitha references, 80's and 90's references, 
 it is fantastic. It is a shame that you may not hear it all, because you just want to skip past 
 all the junk to not have to play the mini games again. If Al Lowe would of been involved in this 
 debacle, this would never of happened. He would of realized that a gaggle of mini-games will not 
 make the Larry populace happy. The nephew I can deal with, but the gameplay is atrocious.
  
  Avoid this coaster at all costs. The only thing that makes me less irritated that I actually 
 bought the game is that I paid twenty bucks less that console owners. That is a sad thing when 
 you feel that way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fett35
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 14, 2004 7:23 pm PT
Review:  (Reviewed using a Pentium 4 Mobile 1.5GHz, ATI Radeon 9800 128 MB, 2-channel sound, 512MB Memory, 
 Windows XP Pro. Reviewing the uncensored version)
  
  OVERALL: 5.5
  
  The original Leisure Suit Larry series, which spawned now seven sequels, was at the time a new 
 twist on the walk-around-and-find-stuff adventure series. With bawdy, irreverent humor, a mature, 
 yet sophomoric subject matter, and a protagonist that was easy to laugh at and with, Leisure Suit 
 Larry was a guilty pleasure that was also wildly popular.
  
  The new rendition, Magna Cum Laude, keeps some of the elements of the old series, adds others, 
 and changes the frontman of the series. Larry Laffer has been retired, replaced with Larry Lovage, 
 his nephew. 
  
  Unfortunately, the designers of Magna Cum Laude have kept the more annoying aspects of the LSL 
 series and made changes were they were most unwelcome. To begin with, Lovage does not possess the 
 misguided lovable-loser charm of his predecessor. Where the original Larrys bad jokes and pickup 
 lines were laughably bad, the new Larrys are just bad. There are a few funny moments, but they 
 are much too few and far between to make the hours gameplay worthwhile. As an example of how the 
 comedy misses, Larry needs to examine all items to find secret tokens that he can use to wimp 
 out and bypass minigames and buy bonuses. If you interact with an object that doesnt contain 
 a bonus, Larry sticks his back end out and farts a green smog. Even with one possessing a wonderfully 
 puerile sense of humor, this not very funny the first time, and is downright aggravating the hundredth 
 time. For being an adult-natured game, the humor is aimed at first graders.
  
  The new Larry is a caricature like figure with a distractingly large head that inhabits a cartoon 
 college and town. Normally, this would be a good fit for this kind of comical game, but the game 
 world is populatedfor the most part -- with realistically drawn characters to interact with. This 
 causes a bizarre anachronism whenever Larry interacts with people in his world. 
  
  There are two main reasons to play this game, the comedy factor and the sex factor. The comedy 
 as above is disappointing and flat. The few hookups that are in the game leave the player with 
 more of a feeling of incredulity than titillation. The game promises a dozen playable women, 
 but most successful completions of scenarios deal with something as far from Larry gaining another 
 notch on his belt as can be thought of. 
  
  Therefore, with no sex and no comedy, this makes a very flat Leisure Suit Larry game. The entire 
 game progresses with the promise of some big comedic or stimulating payoff just around the corner, 
 and rarely, if ever, delivers.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 6.0
  
  LSL is basically a mission-driven game. This requires you to navigate Larry through various neighborhoods 
 in the game world, more of which become unlocked as you progress. Not every building can be entered, 
 and you really only unlock two new neighborhoods, so the whole game feels as though its missing 
 something. Walking Larry through the several neighborhoods as you travel from objective to objective 
 quickly gets old. This isnt helped by intra-level loads that seem to take too long for the amount 
 of content they deliver. Once you arrive at a particular objective, you need to complete one of 
 four minigames to carry on in the mission. The minigames are fun at first, but they quickly grow 
 tiresome once new content ends about the middle of the game. The biggest problem is that Larry 
 has nothing new to offer about one third of the way into the game. Two of the three love scenes 
 have already transpired by then, and any additional difficulty added to the minigames has already 
 been added. This just adds to an atmosphere of going through the motions hoping something new or 
 exciting happenswhich it doesntuntil the very end.
  
  Once you complete the game, you come away with a feeling of it being a bit of a waste of time, 
 and there is absolutely no replay value.
  
  GRAPHICS: 6.0
  
  The graphics are pretty pedestrian. The textures are a bit blocky, but the character models are 
 excellent. There werent many animation issues, and the game runs pretty smoothly. That being said, 
 the in-game cutscenes are horrible looking, and these are the scenes that are supposed to offer 
 the payoff for the arduous missions. They are done at a much lower resolution than the game is 
 actually played, and the aliasing is very apparent. What should have been the best part of the 
 graphics aspect turns out to be the worst.
  
  SOUND: 7.0
  
  The sound is the best part of the game. The character voices, for the most part, are varied and 
 well done, and many songs on the soundtrack are licensed and performed by the original artists. 
 
  
  VALUE: 4.0
  
  In short:
  
  Forty bucks. Four stamped CDs. PDF manual that explains very little of the gameplay. No new material 
 after the first forty-five minutes of gameplay. Should be a twenty dollar title.
  
  REVIEWERS TILT:
  
  LSL: MCL consistently promises more than it delivers: Some loading screens 
 showing scantily clad ladies, and very little game content of the same. Comedy that isnt funny. 
 A protagonist that is annoying to play. If youve played the first level, youve played the whole 
 game, because darn near all the good parts have passed. Disappointing? Id say flaccid.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deano
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 4, 2004 1:20 am PT
Review:  Playing Leisure Suit Larry I realized that I can't actually remember the last time I actually played 
 a game that was humerous. With the tendancy for violence in games nowdays it's a shame we don't 
 see more like this.
  
  The story follows Larry and his quest to get laid. There are genuinely funny dialogue options and 
 situations that crop up. The way you chat to each girl is quite funny by guiding a sperm through 
 a maze, hitting different icons results in different things being said which can lead to very humerous 
 conversations. The list of girls you can hit on fit into your classic stereotypes, like the buxom 
 blonde chearleader and cow girl, the dark haired dominatrix, the big european girl, the italian 
 girl with a mob boss as her father, the aspiring actress etc. Gameplay is quite fun, with drinking 
 games mixed with dancing and trampolining, though occaisionally frustrating if you aren't use to 
 tapping out quick key strokes. You'll also meet characters like the porn fairy who will help you 
 in your quest, and my favourite the talking monkey. Larry is also full of cheesey pick up lines 
 which fit right it. 
  
  Graphics are cartoon like and although no modern wonder they fit in perfectly well, though that 
 doesn't explain the excessively long load times. The best part in this game is the sound, the acting 
 voices is probably the best of any game. The voices fit in perfectly with the characters.
  
  The only problem with larry really is the length, it'll probably only take a few days to knock 
 over and there isn't much point to replay it. Larry is fine to pick up as a rental or wait till 
 it hits the bargin bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Framnk
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 24, 2004 9:20 pm PT
Review:  I thought the Gamespot reviewers were a little too harsh on this game's rating. This game is undoubtedly 
 one of the funniest I've played in quite some time and I had a blast describing some of the funny 
 situtations in the game to my co-workers.
  
  The basic premise of the game is to get Larry on a gameshow called Swingles similar to many reality 
 dating shows. To do this he must prove his worthiness by obtaining articles of affection from various 
 college stereotype girls on campus. There's the country girl, protest girl, cheerleader, MBA girl 
 and the list goes on.
  
  One of the aspects I liked most was how you could "unlock" various loading screens, nude models 
 etc in the game using secret tokens that you find all over. The loading screens themselves were 
 neat because just when you'd think you'd seen them all, another would appear. Even towards the 
 end of the game I was seeing new loading screens which considering how many times you have to look 
 at the loading screen is pretty impressive.
  
  To obtain articles of affection from the various girls in the game you need to perform certain 
 types of set puzzles. I agree with the reviewer that these get sort of repetitive but at least 
 the background to each one (the girl's reactions, etc) changes so it keeps it interesting. They 
 also get harder as you go through the game so that makes it a further challenge.
  
  The game does a good job of being accessible to any skill level. There's really no need to save 
 in this game although they provide an unlimited amount of save slots if you want to. You can always 
 go back and replay a puzzle or cutscene at any time. If a certain puzzle is too hard you can always 
 "wimp out" and purchase a successful completion using the secret tokens you've found. This is somewhat 
 of a cop out because by the end of the game you've found so many tokens there's really no need 
 to keep doing the harder puzzles unless it's a conversation puzzle and you want to hear what they'll 
 say.
  
  Anyway if you are looking for a game with quite a few laugh out loud moments and don't mind a little 
 frontal nudity (especially with the censorship patch!) I highly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thore33
Rating: 6.6
Date: Oct 19, 2004 3:54 pm PT
Review:  I was pretty psyched about a new LSL. But after playing for an hour, i realized that this game 
 was no good. I have continued to play, but my list of annoyances continues to grow. First, the 
 load times are too often. You must load for like 10 secs for every conversation with a character 
 or to move to a new location. This amounts to a lot of time loading a little time playing. What 
 time you do spent playing, you are mainly just walking to another conversation and to play the 
 "conversation" game AGAIN. 
  
  This brings me to the games. The games are a cute idea. I do like the conversation one a little, 
 but it gets old. The other games, like quarters, are pretty poor attempts to use the "golf swing" 
 movement from games like Links. But i find that consistency doesn't really matter, due to the way 
 they've implemented it; it's almost the luck of the swing. I could be amazing at tiger wood golf, 
 but still stink at quarters. Other games are like Dance Revolution, but that gets old.
  
  I guess my big problem with these games is that they try to bring something new to the adventure 
 game world, but the rest of the game departs from good adventure games. What used to be fun about 
 these games was the humor intertwined with the good puzzles. This game has some humor, but is completely 
 mindless and has no puzzles. The only difficulty is getting money, but you just end up playing 
 quarters a dozen more times to get it. This sucks the fun out of the games REAL fast. 
  
  Overall, very dissapointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vengentz
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 18, 2004 2:59 am PT
Review:  Leisure Suit Larry: Magna Cum Laude is one of the few games in a long time that I could play for 
 an extended amount of time (for me thats a good 4 hour block or more) . I kind of expected more 
 from the mini games, all you play is quarters, a Root Beet tapper rip off, and a knock off from 
 DDR. Though I did enjoy how the conversations were taken care of it was intresting and sometimes 
 you answer the wrong way for fun. Normaly I wouldn't recomend the game because it's soo short but 
 if you like potty humor that relates heavy from the american pie movies then this game is for you. 
 It's grown up but not XXX grown up, more like a high R. The fact that it's $29.99 on the PC dosen't 
 hurt when compared to it's $49.99 console brothers.
  
  The graphics are clean but feels like a cartoon, voices are well acted, the mini-games are repetive 
 but not too bad. And if you have a controler for your pc it makes a world of diffrence, the game 
 actually feels like it was ment for a pad.
  
  All and all it's a dirty game but those who know the series, you knew that already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KieSharku
Rating: 5.2
Date: Oct 17, 2004 10:50 pm PT
Review:  To begin with, I'll admit to being a long-time fan of the Leisure Suit Larry franchise, all the 
 way back to playing the first on an Apple IIe computer with no sound. And perhaps that's why I 
 was so disappointed with the newest and long-awaited incarnation of one of my favorite Sierrra 
 anti-heroes.
  
  Leisure Suit Larry: Magna Cum Laude is a big step up on the graphics of previous Larry games, and 
 the audio banter is highly amusing, as one would expect in a game in this series. However, the 
 naughty and just-below-blatant humor that always trademarked the series has turned into in-your-face 
 fart jokes, loads of computer generated naked breasts, and jokes of the Beavis and Butthead level 
 of comedy. Yet, even this doesn't take away from the game as much as one would think, and can sometimes 
 be incredibly funny (the gay-bar sendup of the "Hot Summer Nights" song from GREASE was very well 
 done) .
  
  No, what does take away from the fun of this game, turning it into an often repetitive and tedious 
 exercise, is the deluge of mini-games that was crammed into every nook and cranny of the story. 
 I don't mind the occasional mini-game here and there, but when you are forced to participate in 
 them to claw and crawl through each little bit of plot (and I'm including the sperm-conversation 
 game) only to face yet ANOTHER mini-game to get to the next tiny morsel of plot.... well, it gets 
 VERY old VERY fast. And several of the mini-games (particularly later in the storyline) are set 
 so fast that you are guaranteed to be forced through them more than once to successfully complete 
 them. And you MUST complete them to progress in the story. It was a cute idea, but it was just 
 completely overdone in this game, and it makes the replay value (in my opinion) very low.
  
  Tthe absence of a physical, paper manual for the PC version (a trend I find very unwelcome 
 from the money-grubbing game companies... I've worked in the software business. A paper manual is 
 NOT al lthat expensive to include) is annoying. The lack of necessary interaction with the game 
 world (yes, you can find things in bushes and room furnishings, but they're almost all just trinkets 
 that supposedly help out in the mini-games) is a distinct departure from the classic Larry series: 
 object interation was always a major part of the Larry series. In this version, you don't even 
 actually use the objects you find except for changing clothes now and again. And then there's the 
 censorship patch. Let's face it: no one plays this game without knowing the kind of humor and gameplay 
 they're getting into. The game has no trouble with discussions of lewd activities, ample virtual 
 boobage, and swearing all throughout, yet the game maker pretends it has a streak of "decency" 
 in it by putting a large "CENSORED" block over the naughty bits. Spare me the hypocrisy, Sierra.
 
  
  Overall, a good attempt at reincarnating a classic franchise, but a BAD concept in gameplay that 
 brings the entire effort down to "rent-only" status. And even then, the amount of tedium you have 
 to go through isn't worth the result. And that's truly sad for the Leisure Suit Larry franchise. 
 Let's hope they get it right next time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rijorat
Rating: 6.6
Date: Oct 16, 2004 12:17 am PT
Review:  Let's be honest... if you are looking at buying this game... you're probably fit into one of two 
 categories those looking for T&A or those who are fans of old school Sierra Games like the Space 
 Quest series and previous LSL games.... or both. If you don't fit either of these categories... you 
 are going to be seriously disappointed in this game. The game play isn't even remotely stimulating. 
 Many of the games involve a Simon Says style of play, i. e. the computer shows / tells you what 
 button/s to push... and then you hit it / them. Get it right... you win, wrong you lose.... rather 
 mind-numbing really. One mini-game that does have some merit is the conversations... but not for 
 the game play... rather for the real-time effect that your success/or failure (sometimes intentional) 
 has on what Larry says in the conversation. The game involves navigating your little white tadpole 
 (Yes it's a cartoon sperm... this is an adult game after all) in a side scrolling Space Invaders 
 type game... the object being to hit all the smiley faces while trying to avoiding anything red... although 
 hitting a few of the red icons will get Larry to say some pretty humorous things... and won't prevent 
 you from winning the game... as long as you don't hit to many of them. Green smiley faces of course 
 get Larry to say smooth things to try and seduce the object of his affection. But apart from that 
 the Game play is pretty boring.
  
  But enough of game play... you aren't buying it for the game play... or the sound (nothing fancy 
 there either) . The graphics... do justice to the genre... while not state-of-the-art... the graphics 
 are about on par for 3D games these days... these ain't no Barbie dolls we are talking about here... the 
 American version is of course censored for anything down below in order to stick to the M rating.... 
 but if you get the PC version there are a dozen websites which tell you how to change that (don't 
 ask me, cause I'm not posting instructions... just use your favorite search engine) ... the PAL version 
 is totally uncensored as Europe is apparently a lot more forgiving on all things sexual. So as 
 for T&A... well Sierra delivers... but don't expect XXX porno... it's still a game for general (albeit 
 adult) audiences.
  
  What does stand out here, and really is the whole point of the game is the crude sexual humor and 
 hilarious antics that Larry uses to move up the social food chain from campus chump to sex icon. 
 Sierra really comes through here... so if your mind usually makes its home in the gutter... you should 
 really give this one a shot...
  
  This game does well on it's selling points... but that's about all... so once again in case you missed 
 it up front... if you're looking for more than a cheap T&A game with a lot of humorous sexual banter.... 
 you are looking in the wrong place.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fiddlecub
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 13, 2004 3:59 am PT
Review:  Leisure Suit Larry has been taking a mighty long vacation. The last time he strutted his way onto 
 adventure gamers' screen was in 1996's Love for Sail, so it's no surprise that he has built up 
 a sizable cult following. The humor of those games was often questionable, but the titles still 
 held a certain amount of charm, particularly since they stayed mostly true to standard adventure/puzzle 
 traditions. Now, eight years later, High Voltage Software and VU Games brings us a new, M-rated 
 update, stripped of any real gameplay and bursting with foul language and sexual allusions. While 
 the superb audio presentation and some occasionally laugh-out loud moments keep Magna Cum Laude 
 from being immediate bargain-bin fodder, there is no gameplay of any consequence to keep gamers 
 interested in the 10-hour journey. 
  
  In Magna Cum Laude (pun very much intended) , the player takes the role of Larry Lovage, the nephew 
 of series hero Larry Laffer. Larry is a college student in a school that features vending machines 
 selling anal sex toys, and apparently, the gargantuan head on his tiny frame makes it difficult 
 for him to find sex partners. Fortunately, the university is crawling with buxom babes right out 
 of Girls Gone Wild, and the television show Swingles is looking for an unlikely bachelor. If 
 Larry can bring series host Uma enough proof of his irresistible masculinity, he will be featured 
 on the dating show, where he can choose from one of several bosomy beauties with which to do the 
 deed. Larry's search for panties and pasties takes him from one lousy pick-up line (Your lips 
 look lonely; would they like to meet mine?) to the next.
  
  Larry does not play as a typical adventure. Rather, it is mostly a string of simplistic minigames 
 meant to lend cohesion to a series of boob shots, fart jokes, and sexual innuendo. You can examine 
 and use various objects throughout the campus from a third-person view, often to hilarious commentary, 
 but you will not actually pick up any of these objects, or use them to any degree of necessity. 
 Instead, to advance further in your adventure, you need to increase Larry's confidence levels by 
 conversing with any of the shapely vixens wandering about town. The success of these talks is based 
 solely on how well you maneuver a happy-go-lucky sperm cell (which sadly does not possess Woody 
 Allen's voice) across a side-scrolling mishmash of hearts and smileys  which positively influence 
 the conversation  and red icons that represent farts, belches, and close-ups of bouncing breasts 
 that divert attention from the heart-to-heart. While these asides are amusing, they may keep Larry 
 from getting in the chick's pants, so it's best to move around the grinning sperm as accurately 
 as you can. 
  
  Of course, no game involving scantily-clad women would be complete without trampolines and alcohol, 
 and Magna Cum Laude seems to have intimate knowledge of that fact. The most interesting diversions 
 the game has to offer highlight the two niftiest parts of the game: intoxication and breast physics. 
 Actually, the physics don't apply just to breasts (which we swear also possess their own AI) , but 
 to the bottles and other items Larry kicks around in his travels. The best minigame, the well-known 
 drinking game of Quarters, also showcases the physics by showing the coins bounce around in a somewhat 
 convincing fashion. But really, the best bouncing is on display in minigames like the trampolines, 
 where you have to press the buttons in proper order in DDR fashion. It's quite difficult to concentrate 
 on your succession of moves with your comely competitor's cleavage in full view, but gamers who 
 can look past the silicone will find there is nothing remarkably difficult  or fun  about it. 
 
  
  Larry doers manage to get drunk, although a little public urination can help take care of this 
 dilemma. The way the game handles it is quite comical: when he is tipsy, you will see the bubbles 
 float from him to indicate his intoxicated state, and the warping of the camera view does a creditable 
 job of simulating the experience. When he runs around, Larry will actually clasp his hand to his 
 mouth, as if he is going to throw up. The conversation sperm (for lack of a better term) is actually 
 more difficult to control in this state as well. Fortunately, should Larry wish to masturbate  
 yes, sadly, a Pong-type game can help you get Larry off in his spare time  his drunkenness doesn't 
 seem to interfere. 
  
  Along the way, you can pick up some cash to purchase various necessaries (and unnecessaries) , and 
 will meet an eclectic assortment of stereotypes: the nerdy gay mathematicians (I'm interested 
 in prime numbers. That's what I love about you.) , the dowdy front desk clerk (the existential 
 dread!) , the brainless hackysack dude (Yeah, I'm in the zone) , and the spoiled trust-fund baby 
 (I only paid fifty for these socks.) At its best, Magna Cum Laude can be surprisingly funny, 
 simply because a brainless reference to flatulence or a close-up of digital boobies will be followed 
 by droll commentary on campus life or an ironic pop culture in-joke. If any of these odd caricatures 
 (or their privates) seem particularly interesting, you can take a snapshot of them, although this 
 has rather little bearing on the gameplay. 
  
  The juvenile humor would fare better if Leisure Suit Larry actually succeeded as an adventure game, 
 but aside from an enormous amount of spoken audio and the visual one-liners, there's really no 
 point in exploring the campus. The game features no true puzzles; there are no levers to pull, 
 no inventory items to combine, and sadly, no gameplay of any depth. In a game such as Myst, exploration 
 serves as its own reward, and the experience is strangely captivating and compelling. In Magna 
 Cum Laude, the ribald humor and jiggling jugs are amusing and entertaining the first couple of 
 times, but they are expected to carry the entire game; when Quarters becomes the title's highlight, 
 it speaks volumes as to the actual gameplay. Ostensibly, we should care about getting Larry laid, 
 and the dirty jokes and butt plug references are assumably meant to lubricate the way. In reality, 
 it would have been better off as an episode of The Man Show: a mild, guilty pleasure  and over 
 in 30 minutes. 
  
  Larry's new world follows very much in the vein of previous incarnations in the series in terms 
 of its look. Everything (that isn't a female form) is highly stylized, especially Larry himself, 
 who is so top-heavy we were afraid he may actually topple over. The cartoony graphics are a perfect 
 representation of the game's frat-house sensibility, even if there is nothing terribly noteworthy 
 from a technical standpoint. The incredibly long loading times are well-worth noting, however: 
 just entering another area can trigger an extended wait so tedious you may be able to read an actual 
 Playboy article to keep yourself occupied. 
  
  The game's audio, however, is superb and truly admirable. There is a great deal of spoken dialogue 
 in Magna Cum Laude, and every line is delivered perfectly by a terrific voice cast. Larry himself 
 is as annoyingly charming as you would expect, but even the bit players can keep things livened 
 up quite a bit. Even when the writing falls flat, ever line is delivered with such goofy irreverence 
 that even the most terrible punch lines have a certain appeal they would otherwise lack. The game's 
 highlights are easily the bits of spoken dialogue you overhear as you travel from one potential 
 roll in the hay to the next. The soundtrack is a motley crew (pun again intended) of pop, rock, 
 and hip-hop that seems oddly appropriate for the university setting. 
  
  As a showcase for adolescent high-jinks and a censor-pushing barrage of four-letter words, Larry 
 succeeds as well as the average episode of Jackass; as a video game, it's a lackluster sequel in 
 a series that once relied more on innuendo than on crude references and penis jokes. If you are 
 looking for some sexually charged humor, we recommend a rental of Fast Times at Ridgemont High. 
 If you want some engaging minigames, there are plenty of arcade compilations available on the shelves. 
 If you want a high-quality, involving adventure, there are dozens of terrific choices. If, on the 
 other hand, the digitized breasts in Dead or Alive Xtreme Beach Volleyball have worn thin and ASCII 
 masturbation sounds like fun, then by all means, pick up a copy of Leisure Suit Larry: Magna Cum 
 Laude. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artman420
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 13, 2004 2:25 am PT
Review:  First off, let me start by saying I was worried like many others when I heard of a new Larry coming 
 out. ALL my worries have been laid to rest! I got the game two days ago and have had a real hard 
 time putting the game down (my work is showing it too) ) I know it isn't your traditional point 
 and click adventure game but I really don't mind. Games have changed a lot in the years and it 
 is tough to incorporate the games of old in todays new style. There are still a lot of things to 
 look for and scenarios to solve. The mini-games are definitely a funny and fun approach at progressing 
 through the game. Sure at times it gets a little repetitive but the humorous rewards you get from 
 them are more than worth it. This brings me to the next subject... the script. The script of this 
 game is absolutely incredible! Not politically correct? You bet! This is what is refreshing about 
 the game. It is pushing the boundaries and giving the player something that has been lost as of 
 late. Everything from satisfied teddy bears to the original and funny levels. That is another thing 
 that impressed me, the graphics. The characters are extremely sexy and the worlds are colorful 
 and funny. I definitley felt like I was playing a cartoony Larry game. All in all this game is 
 by no means a difficult hard core game like Half Life or Halo. I think this game is meant to be 
 played with a group of your good friends to have a good time. It's a nice break from the games 
 I've been playing that require most of my time... Wait, this has been taking up most of my time) 
 I already have plans this weekend to bring my friends over to play this game. I am really surprised 
 at what some of the reviewers have said about the game so far. It makes me wonder if we are really 
 playing the same game? I love it and I hope they come out with another one soon. Do yourself a 
 favor and get this game. You won't regret it! You will have one of the funniest game experiences 
 of your life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kh_nature
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 12, 2004 4:13 am PT
Review:  This one is the best of the series. 99% would disagree with me but I have finished the game and 
 completed 99.6% of the game and I was quite impress with it. I didn't like the older Larrys because 
 the puzzles were too chalenging for me. Since I am mainly a FPS shooter fan this game was right 
 up my alley since there were no puzzle and the game tells you where to go and what to do at all 
 times. Pretty much like a regular FPS game. 
  I must say that if I didn't have the patch to remove the censorship bar on my PC the game wouldn't 
 have been nearly as great. I only wanted to see the boobies (most of us wants to see that as well 
 since we are playing this game) .
  
  I felt that all the characters had different personalities and that suprised me. The mini-games 
 are repetitive but that didn't bother me since I was driven to see what was coming up next.
  
  I paid this game 22$ and I wouldn't put more than 30$ on it because of its consolish gameplay. 
 This game on the PC is as close to a console game as you gonna get. That by itself is not too great 
 but it is tolerable because the environment of this game is alive and impressive. Next time I hope 
 they don't put any 'Russell' character in the follow up because he freaks me out for some unknown 
 reason. I felft like punching him all through the game because of his worse-than-ugly face. Beware 
 because in this game there is a lot of naked males that you have to take pictures of. Too many 
 to my liking.
  
  All in all, I must say that the game delivered great entertainment for me since I rarely want to 
 finish a game but for this oneI just couldn't put it down. And this game has tons of nudity in 
 it; 15 women and you see them all naked from head to toe (with patch) . You can even take pictures 
 of them bending down and save it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmlancaster
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 12, 2004 1:09 am PT
Review:  Well, I was a huge fan of the PC game years ago, but to now see this finally come to the forefront, 
 I am highly disappointed in seeing Larry's nephew to repetitive missions all over this town, and 
 never really getting anywhere. The storyline lacks, the game itself was just as boring as can be. 
 I hope if they ever get more involved with yet another sequel they better make it a little more 
 challenging. The mini games were repeated over and over, and still nothing to really THINK about, 
 maybe an RPG style next time. But, dont' waste 50 bucks on it, rent it first, or buy it used at 
 EB Games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jshipley01eb
Rating: 5.6
Date: Oct 7, 2004 8:49 pm PT
Review:  This is not the easiest review to write. Part of it is because Im an old school leisure suit 
 Larry fan. And this is not your old school leisure suit Larry. The other part because this game 
 brings to mind several things I truly hate about PC games and the gaming industry in general right 
 now.
  
  But before I get to all that, lets start with this game, Leisure Suit Larry, Magna Cum Laude. 
 First and foremost, forget about everything you might remember about the old games. Aside from 
 the original Larry being this new Larrys uncle, there little to associate this game with the old 
 ones.
  
  In fact, heres a little comparison chart I worked up to show you the difference between them:
 
  
  Old School Larry  An adventure style game, where you collected items, tried to put them together 
 in the right place, maybe try and solve a puzzle or two in an effort to get Larry laid.
  
  The New Larry  A repetitive mini-game infested adventure where you go from point A to point B 
 to help young Larry get laid. Did I mention the mini-games? 
  
  You know, if I wanted a rhythm game, I would have purchased Brittneys Dance Beat. Okayno, I wouldnt 
 but you get the idea.
  
  In truth, there is one nice thing about the new game. The humor is there. It has remained, though 
 its been kicked up a notch with vulgarities being the norm. Now, Im not so old that I dont appreciate 
 a good CENSORED or CENSORED or even and nice big CENSORED every once in a while. But there is a 
 line they cross in this game that the original Larry games found better ways of getting across.
 
  
  Titillation. Its all about the titillation. The original Larry did this so well. The game would 
 build you up and take you right to the edge of sexuality. Then the big CENSORED logo would come 
 up and you on some level you wanted to see what went on under there, even though you knew full 
 well what was going on. Titillation.
  
  Not so with the new Larry. You want to see some computer generated jugs? Its not hard and wont 
 take you long. Theres no feeling of reward at all to the game. They show you the money so fast 
 that theres no build-up. Its like getting all the cheat codes to BMX XXX and watching all the 
 nudity. After that, there isnt really any reason to play that game unless you want to here the 
 characters say CENSORED and CENSORED.
  
  Lets talk about something else. How about game control? In Old Larry, you mouse clicked where 
 you wanted to go, and Larry went there. You could hold you mouse over objects on the screen and 
 then you clicked on them to see what they were or to take them to put them into inventory. You 
 also mouse clicked on people to talk to them. The interface was very simple. The best part about 
 it was that it was so simple that it didnt detract from the game play experience at all.
  
  Reviewers Note  Leisure Suit Larry 1 and 2 and I think even 4 were all parcer controlled, 
 back in the day. You young kids today probably have no clue what that means. There was a time when 
 the PC didnt come with a mouse. You had to type everything you wanted to do. Heres an example:
 
  
  Youd type: GET GLASS to pick up a glass. Or TALK TO MAN to talk to the character on the screen. 
 It was a real pain in the butt, especially when you had to do more complex actions. Sometimes only 
 one or two combinations of words would trigger the thing you wanted to do. You knew what you needed 
 to do, but had no clue how to word it so that the game knew too. Ugh. You youngsters are so spoiled.
 
  
  Game control in the New Larry is terrible. Well, its terrible from a PC stand point. This game 
 was obviously designed to appeal to the console and controller based market. This is not a PC game 
 ported to the Consoles. Its definitely the other way around.
  
  This leads me to another pet peeve. Game companies need to pick a platform and stick with it. If 
 youre going to make a PC game, then make a PC game. Dont make a game that ports to all the systems. 
 Yes, I know its all about the Benjamins, but it shows in the quality of the games that are released.
 
  
  Elder Scrolls III  Morrowind is a great example. Game Spot did an interview with the guy from 
 Bethesda, who said that you could see from Morrowind that quality games could be ported from the 
 PC to the console and still maintain their coolness. Im paraphrasing.
  
  But you cant tell me that they didnt know they were going to port this PC game to X-Box and didnt 
 say to themselves, Hey, lets change this one thing to this instead, so it works better when we 
 port this to console. Bethesda knew what it was doing, and they probably hid this fact better 
 then any other game, short of Myst III  Exile.
  
  Larry clearly is designed for a game controller. For those of us who remember the Larry of old, 
 this is quite a hard thing to adapt to. And Im hard core here, folks. I play it all. If it wasnt 
 for the ridiculous load times on the console systems, I say spend the extra 20 bucks and save yourself 
 the trouble of trying to PC this game.
  
  To be even more specific:
  
  Theres a mini game called Quarters. Its a drinking game where you flick a quarter into a glass 
 in the center of the table. If you make it, the other person has to take a drink and vice versa. 
 To do this game, you have to pull back on the mouse and then move it forward. Dont bump the mouse 
 though, or else youll find yourself launching a quarter two inches by accident. This happens all 
 the time. Ive won this game, but never with skill. Its all about dumb luck. Theres no gauge 
 of how well your doing or where the quarter is really going to go. Not that it matters, since you 
 can do the game over and over and over until you get it.
  
  Same thing with the rhythm games. The games were designed with the A, B, X and Y buttons in mind. 
 They lost big points from me on this.
  
  What really sucks about this whole thing is that I really do think the game is well written. Its 
 genuinely funny. I did laugh out loud several times so far. I just cant say that its enough to 
 justify the purchase of this game.
  
  Another area of contention for me was the use of nudity. Im not a prude, by any means. I like 
 a nice set of boobs as much as the next guy/girl/alien. But if youre going to go the nude route, 
 then grow a pair and show everything. Its so dumb that theres a big CENSORED logo over the lower 
 naughty bits, but none on the breasts. You can say CENSORED and CENSORED, but you wont show us 
 the CENSORED. Bah.
  
  One last comment. There is no game manual included with the PC version. No PAPER game manual. Its 
 pdf file only. Thats crap. I want the book. Im getting really tired of this new trend with books. 
 Have you noticed how vague these things are? They do that so youll buy the damn hint book. Im 
 really sick of that. I gotta tell you. I should not have to pay an extra 15 to 20 bucks just to 
 learn how to do the basic controls of the game.
  
  Okay, so you made it to the end of this review. Thanks, I would have bailed after the second paragraph. 
 So youve hung in this long and heres your reward. My rating:
  
  Sound: 9 out of 10  Good sound quality, good voice acting and ambient noises. They did a nice 
 job all around.
  
  Graphics: 8.5 out of 10  Again, pretty solid here. They lost points for not showing full frontal 
 nudity. If youre going to go there, go all the way there. Still, I like the cartoony graphics, 
 they looked great.
  
  Game Manual: 5 out of 10  The game manual was okay, but I want a paper manual, not an online one. 
 They are lucky to get 5 points out of me.
  
  Game-play: 4 out of 10  Barely passable on the PC. A real mess. This is not a good PC control 
 scheme. Grab a game pad, people!
  
  Complexity: 2 out of 10  Having a CENSORED control scheme does not count here, this game is NOT 
 that hard at all. If youre looking for a challenge, check out Myst IV. Now theres a hint book 
 worthy purchase.
  
  Overall score : 5.6  A real disappointment here. Hopefully the true adventure game style isnt 
 dead forever.
  
  Al Lowe, you are missed. This wasnt the franchise you created. I havent forgotten about you. 
 I hope you can salvage Larry and return him to glory someday! 
  
  -Jack 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
