-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Leisure Suit Larry: Box Office Bust
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/leisuresuitlarryboxofficebust/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Interesting directing minigame.
 Low price.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Irredeemably offensive.
 Humor is rarely funny.
 Dull, repetitive quests.
 Poor controls.
 Ugly characters.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  6, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2.5
Critic Score: 2.3, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 3.6, 123 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Funsta
Developer: Team 17
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Mar 31, 2009 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Mindless, repetitive gameplay and a truly atrocious sense of humor help Leisure Suit Larry live 
 up to its name -- it's a total bust. 

  When the Leisure Suit Larry series was revived a few years back in Magna Cum Laude, its bawdy, 
 over-the-top humor and minigame-heavy action seemed geared to capture a new generation of gutter-minded 
 gamers. Leisure Suit Larry: Box Office Bust seems geared to offend, bore, or frustrate anyone who 
 makes the mistake of playing it. The game's shocking sense of humor has all but forsaken wit and 
 cleverness, choosing instead to inundate you with a constant stream of ham-fisted innuendo and 
 spray-and-pray vulgarity (if we say enough foul things, some of it's gotta be funny, right?) . Box 
 Office Bust is an intensely adult game, yet the depressingly simple gameplay features more repetition 
 than a children's television show. Despite their simplicity, some of these tasks are actually difficult, 
 thanks to poor platforming and fighting controls. When aggravatingly dull action combines with 
 a desperately perverse sense of humor as they have in Leisure Suit Larry: Box Office Bust, they 
 form an entirely new compound: soul-crushing, mind-poisoning shame.  

  The star of Box Office Bust is Larry Lovage, the protagonist from Magna Cum Laude and nephew of 
 legendary lounge lizard Larry Laffer. Summoned to his uncle's movie studio to help sniff out a 
 saboteur, the young Larry arrives in a flurry of disgusting and lewd comments. This storm does 
 not abate throughout the whole game, and you are subjected to a wide spectrum of vulgarity, including 
 (but not limited to) scatological jokes, bestiality gags, and esoteric sexual slang. Most of the 
 humor tries to be shocking, but it just ends up feeling like someone spent a few days on the Internet 
 tracking down the nastiest stuff he could, and then transformed it into a script. This isn't to 
 say you won't be shocked; Box Office Bust contains some of the foulest dialogue you'll hear in 
 a game. But most of it is far from entertaining, let alone funny.  

  This is fitting, however, because most of the game isn't fun. A lot of your time is spent running 
 around movie lots ad nauseam, and hijacking the herky-jerky golf carts doesn't make it more fun, 
 just faster. The detailed environments have a brightly colored cartoony aesthetic befitting a Looney 
 Tunes game, which at least makes the endless running hither and thither a bit more bearable. Unfortunately, 
 any relief the scenery might offer is quickly swept away by one of the many aggravating platforming 
 sections. Larry can jump, double-jump, and wall-jump, and is forced to do so quite often. The controls 
 are floaty, so you'll have to be careful when setting up your jumps lest you send Larry over a 
 ledge to his doom. He also loves to grip onto walls, preparing for a wall jump. More often than 
 not, however, this gecko imitation will mess up your intended jump, and you'll have to try again. 
 The ability to move the camera or switch into first-person view makes jumping puzzles more manageable, 
 but whether or not the camera will respond in a given situation is a crapshoot.  

           No one will know if you fall off the wire on purpose. Just do it. End your misery.    
   

  When you're not struggling with this awkward platforming, you may be forced to grapple with the 
 awkward combat. Larry can punch, kick, and block and can perform a magical-pirouette-knockdown 
 attack, but again, the controls aren't responsive. You may easily pirouette your enemies to the 
 ground, or they might gang up on you and make it difficult for you to move. Standing your ground 
 and duking it out is an exercise in frustration, making the best strategy a combination of running 
 around, pirouetting, and kicking your enemies while they're down. There are also some shooting 
 and horse-riding sequences that aspire to mediocrity, and they round out a suite of action elements 
 that are boring at best and infuriating at worst. PC players get a extra layer of frustration to 
 top it all off: any button prompt is delivered as "B1," "B2," etcetera, forcing you to remember 
 exactly how your keys are mapped. Delightful.  

  There are some mildly entertaining minigames, but they are relatively scarce and come with their 
 own set of problems. After you complete one of the dream sequences in which Larry actually lives 
 the movie he's acting in, you get to direct the final scene. You do this by choosing which of the 
 three cameras to focus on as the scene is acted out. Switching cameras in time with the action 
 and dialogue cues is a neat challenge, and the cameras will often reveal funny happenings just 
 off the set. The problem is, to do really well you have to listen to the dialogue, which is a trial 
 in and of itself. The other notable minigame happens when Larry is trying to seduce one of the 
 many women around the lot. The dialogue here is some of the best (morbidly amusing) and worst (absolutely 
 atrocious) that the game has to offer. Though you can get some good laughs out of these conversations, 
 you'll have to endure some pretty bad stuff. When you are successful (you literally cannot fail) , 
 Larry takes the woman back to his skeezy trailer. Congrats?  

  Not really. Though Box Office Bust wears out the bottom of the dialogue barrel by scraping it so 
 vigorously, it barely scratches the surface of sexual content. All you see during the much-ballyhooed 
 act is the suggestive rocking of Larry's trailer. Not that you'd really want to see what is going 
 on. All the women in the game are downright ugly, even by cartoon sexy-lady standards. Weird eyeballs, 
 disproportionate features, and wonky shading effects wreak havoc on their faces, and many seem 
 to be smuggling overinflated rugby balls beneath their skin, which makes them more freak show than 
 pinup girl. This is bizarrely fitting, though, because the idea of any woman bedding Larry after 
 hearing his obscene come-ons is truly frightening.  

           And she's one of the sexy ones.      

  Perhaps the greatest peril you'll face when 
 playing Box Office Bust is that, after being so heavily bombarded with such repulsive dialogue, 
 you might find yourself tempted to repeat some of the things Larry says to your friends or family. 
 Don't. Keep your mouth shut and get rid of the game ASAP. Leisure Suit Larry: Box Office Bust is 
 a cesspool of foul language and ugly personalities. The terrible gameplay is stretched thin over 
 hours and hours of redundant, repetitive quests, and it's a bad purchase even at its discount price. 
 The one good thing you could say about Leisure Suit Larry is that it aims high: by relentlessly 
 degrading men and women alike it transcends mere misogyny and insults us all equally and without 
 prejudice.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (14 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: osama99
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2009 4:56 am PT
Review:  This game rules for us with English as a secondary language, because it's like a practical language 
 and slang course. Unfortunately all the English courses I've seen only use formal English, which 
 is not what normal people use to communicate in everyday's real life.
  
  By playing this game, not only you'll increase your ordinary, informal English skills, but you'll 
 also be taught how to insult people, and also how to understand when you're being insulted, which 
 is always important when travelling abroad - particularly in English speaking countries, not exactly 
 known for their hospitality to foreigners.
  
  Then there's all the sleaze that became typical with this series and which we fans love - in no 
 other game will you find such a direct approach to life's realities without it being all covered 
 up by politically correct crap.
  
  I recommend Leisure Suit Larry: Box Office Bust wholeheartedly for these important reasons, and 
 I rate it a 10/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: friolandia
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 8, 2009 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Sucks balloons. Wheres the naked ladies? Wheres the thinking and the solving? Wheres Larry? 
 BORING GAME!!! Nudity was the reason i liked these games. Did you take out the spiciness because 
 you are gay or just wanted to bankrupt this series? That dirty language aint gonna be appealing 
 for parents you know, to whose kids this childish game is; no reason to risk it since it doesnt 
 show anything. I rather play Lula 3D again than loose my time with this stupidity. Thanks so much 
 for spoiling it from all Larry fans! You shoud rather do a CAREBEARS game! And still you might 
 make it suck still. Better do the next OFFICE suite and leave GAMES TO GAMERS!!! What its worst, 
 the game used to be a thinking game, now is all mindless action, should leave the adventure games 
 to funny and witty people, this wasnt some dumb game, this was a Sierra classic! How did you thoug 
 you could compete with THAT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilmaycare34
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 8, 2009 12:56 am PT
Review:  I actually enjoyed the game for the beginning, characters look horrible and theres a definite framerate 
 issue but i saw past that, i even saw past the controls, running around collecting trophies randomly 
 dotted around in impossible places. and then i met the wild west. awful awful awful forced on you 
 mini games, awful combat, and the most annoying platforming cliff side you will ever traverse in 
 gaming history. this part kills an already bad game, along with the shooting aspect, followed by 
 a beat em up segment later with the most impossible guards ever, due to rubbish fighting. its worth 
 playing at 18 quid for the achievement points, but dont be surprised if your ready to knaw your 
 arm off the moment you meet any dreamscape elements. They did get some good actors in on the dialogue 
 but i feel really sorry for the stuff they are forced to say. It'd be nice if they brought back 
 the point and click adventure style for larry we grew to love, especially in love for sale. why 
 does getting right equal years of wrong wrong wrong. no one is supposed to look up to sega and 
 their sonic franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxtor
Rating: 2.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 7:25 pm PT
Review:  This game isn't all that fun. Like the reviews say, its alot of senseless running around. You ever 
 played those games where your on a mission, and the NPC tells u to go somewhere, then report back 
 to him, then they send u to another location right next to it? Well this game is like that. Senseless 
 running around. Why not give me all the information I need, and have them as quest objectives rather 
 than to have to run back and forth getting information piece by piece. Sometimes there isnt even 
 a golf cart to get u around, so you end up running on foot, which is not fun.... The art style 
 of the game looks great. The graphics kinda have a team fortress 2 feel to it. But the girls are 
 very unattractive. Maybe it was a bad idea NOT to add nudity to the game, Prolly would have given 
 gamers some sense of satisfaction. Another key flaw is the camera. It's got preset autoreset camera 
 angles. No freelook which was a pain in the F*CK* ass. It took me 45 mins to find a quest point 
 that was off camera inside a garage. Many players prolly expereienced this as well. So im sure 
 im not the only one. Specially when trying to grab those trophies on buildings and you position 
 your camera. Then you go to jump, and the camera resets itself. So u end up not jumping in the 
 direction u want, and falling to either your death or some serious damage. Then double wall jumping 
 taken from prince of persia? Moving boxes like in Tomb raider and Legacy of Kain soulreaver? It 
 was all bugged with glitchy animation. If your going to take inovative ideas from other games, 
 do it considerably well please. Gamers are anal enough to see where ideas are taken from. If its 
 half assed it will be scrutinzed. It was very buggy to the point of discouraging and exiting the 
 game to do something more productive. Maybe ill try it again if they have a Add-on to fix everything 
 wrong with this game. Forgive my review for being so critical, but I have never had a game like 
 this upset me this much lol. Its just.... I have no other words to describe it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcma4393
Rating: 2.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 5:07 am PT
Review:  After playing Magna Cum Laude, I was expecting high hopes from Leisure Suit Larry: Box Office Bust. 
 Sadly, I was immensely disappointed,. First off, if deciding on which version to get of this game, 
 make sure it's either the Xbox 360 or PS3 version or make sure you pick up a controller for your 
 PC.
  
  The controls for this game are really bad. During the rhythm matching portion of the game, instead 
 of telling you to press enter, they pop up B4, space, B1. That would be ok if they actually called 
 the buttons that in the manual or in the game control configuration screen (they call it action 
 # instead of B#) . Also, the fact that the first 4 action buttons are space, alt, backspace and 
 enter makes getting ready to press the button in a fast response to the pop-up near impossible.
 
  
  Then there's the driving. Get ready to get your vehicle stuck quite a bit. I stuck the mail cart 
 you have to drive in one of the missions at least 3 times (one of wish my character was stuck and 
 I had to restart the mission) .
  
  The graphics are bad. They would be somewhat ok, if it wasn't for a weird sheen the development 
 team gave to all the characters. If you're going to go with cartoony graphics, go cartoony, not 
 a poor attempt at cell shading. The camera is terrible. In spots were the player could have used 
 an adjustable camera, it's fixed (which is really bad inside of buildings) . 
  
  In conclusion, it's hard for me to give this game a fair shake, as I am going to have to force 
 myself to play the game again. The game is broken and seems rushed out to meet the deadline. Hopefully, 
 if they do make another LSL game, they pick a developer that does justice to the title and is not 
 looking for a quick buck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mekkler
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 10:53 pm PT
Review:  I feel people have become snobs when it comes to video games. If it's for the 360 or PS3 it has 
 to blow there minds. With that said the "next gen" consoles has release games that isn't worth 
 the 59.99 that the game is release at, some examples are: Bullet Witch, Star Trek Legacy, and just 
 about every game based on a movie. Finally they release a game at the solid price of 19.99, and 
 this game is better then the games mentioned above. Renting games are between 6 to 8 dollars so 
 this type of game is worth every dime. Is it ground breaking? Nope, not one bit, but I think "gamers" 
 need to get past the Halo 3's, Resident Evil 5's and just kick their feet up and enjoy a game that 
 is silly. 
  
  Now to the game:
  Graphics are good, but during movie cuts, their seems to be pixel problem because you can see dots, 
 and comes off glitchy. This doesn't hurt gameplay one bit though.
  Sound is the best part of the game. That doesn't mean it's great. Just pay attention to the dialogue 
 when you're directing.
  Gameplay reminds me of The Simpsons Game, but not as smooth.
  
  All in all, I think people would actually enjoy the game if they got passed their own ego. For 
 a 20 dollar game, it's well made. If this was a 60 dollar game, it wouldn't be worth the price. 
 Their's nothing wrong with playing and enjoying a silly game every once in while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zithis
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 5, 2009 3:36 pm PT
Review:  There's not much to say, really. This was perhaps the worst game I have ever played. And I have 
 played many games.
  
  The camera is completely impossible since, for instance, if you're standing close to a wall you 
 can't pan it to the side. Instead, you're left with a sticky camera letting you not see where you're 
 going. The controls are inaccurate at best because of "smooth turning", the graphics are, while 
 not horrific, empty and soulless.
  
  The game is basically a series of minigames of jumping around collecting things. Almost no dialogue, 
 but if you're -way- into fart humor it might be slightly amusing at its peaks, otherwise the dialogue 
 is just junk. Worst of all; in the hour or so I spent playing I did not see even a hint of any 
 babes, just anorexic girls with american footballs under their shirts.
  
  Conclusion: get and play one of the REAL Larry games instead. What they lack in graphics they make 
 up in awesomeness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hunter141072
Rating: 1.5
Date: Apr 5, 2009 10:29 am PT
Review:  when i saw this game i was wondering if anything was learn from magna cum load, is it possible 
 that they finally try and get this game right just like al lowe did so many times???
  well, we can say now that an al loweless larry will always be garbage, and i realize this the moment 
 when the first word that you hear in the game is: f**k
  all the characters look like dead zombies, they dont have personalities, the main character is 
 awfull, larry loveage looks like a drunk idiot, but the worst part is when "uncle larry" appears......... jesus 
 Almighty........ you have no idea what they did with poor larry... he is now a FAT UGLY OLD BUCKET 
 OF LARD!!!!!! seriously he could fit more as a silent hill enemy!!! the nice cute loser is gone!!! 
 they gave him a voice that sounds more like a mob boss than larry , he is plain disgusting, the 
 whole game makes no sense, the characters curse like drunk sailors, the only thing that is more 
 or less nice is the world as it looks very cartoon-like looks which works fine. sadly thats one 
 of the few things that work in this game, the main story makes no sense, the first mission puts 
 you on a big quest of deleting graffitti, which is BTW a penis-like shape, guess you can imagine 
 the great "jokes" that are born from that.
  in that mission i spent more or less 10 minutes jumping and climbing in a very ugly mario-like 
 way just trying to find all the graffittis in the stage, after finding them all, the next mission 
 was... give a cell phone to a guy... and once again walk all over the place trying to find the guy.
 
  the girls are ugly, the characters are ugly, larry the hut is one of the most shocking things 
 you are going to see in this game, they said that they took rid of the sex well, i think they made 
 a big mistake because sex is the only thing that could have helped this big piece of junk. larry 
 loveage keeps talking and talking during the game saying things that are supposed to be funny but 
 he ends being so annoying that i was hoping for a larry jokes on/off option.
  i never thought of team 17 as a great company, and who can say the opposite when this guys have 
 done nothing but worms games since the end of the amiga era. Well this was the opportunity to show 
 that they are not a one-trick horse, but after playing this game i can say please stay with worms.... 
 and for the rest of the people dont waste your money on this piece of junk, if you are looking 
 for sex go and get a porn. Itll be cheaper and better acted than what you are going to see here. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: betelman
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 3, 2009 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Haven't finished this game yet but I like the game play better than Magnum Cum Laude.
  
  It is funny. So was MCL but i still wish Al Lowe had a hand in making both if them. If you are 
 a fan of the Larry series, You will like the humor.
  
  Great voice acting and animations in the cut scenes.
  
  I was a little disappointed in the 
 choice of Larry's Uncles voice after playing the other games. He also doesn't resemble the cute 
 Larry Laffer. I realized that the animators went back to a drawing of Larry when he was in a row 
 boat floating for days after leaving a ship ( can't remember which game . I think it was #2) .
 
  
  The movement is a bit tough especially when trying to reach certain bonus awards. The camera is 
 not very friendly at times.
  
  
  
  All in all.. could have been better but better than the last.
  Maybe next time Al will be in on 
 the fun
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: letterbombed
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 8:45 am PT
Review:  We'll keep this review simple, because like this game it doesn't deserve a whole lot of your attention. 
 The gameplay comes off somewhat like a broken version of Rockstar's Bully game. It's a sandbox 
 world, apparently built on the Unreal engine. You play Larry's nephew, Larry. The goal is somewhat 
 similar to previous Larry games, try to get laid by big breasted women, and fail miserably until 
 you succeed.
  
  This game would be easy by an eight year olds standards if it weren't nearly unplayable due to 
 frustrating, poorly laid out, and poorly functioning controls. Prepare yourself to die, and die 
 again due to pushing the jump button one too many times, bouncing off a wall, and falling to your 
 death. Most of the gameplay involves running (or karting) from point A to point B, however there 
 are some occasionally funny, but usually frustrating mini games involving fighting, shooting, conversations 
 and of course ... Jumping. The game appears to have other optional objectives such as running around 
 the movie studio collecting Golden Statues. At this point, I have collected about 20 or so, unfortunately 
 they do not tell you how many there are, so I have no idea how close I am to collecting them and 
 and furthermore whether or not there is even a reward for completing this challenge. At about ten 
 hours into the game I have yet to be rewarded for anything. So, on with the breakdown:
  
  Pros:
  
  -Lots of cartoon cleavage
  -The occasional fun mini game
  
  Cons:
  
  -Weak 
 graphics (although apparently built off the Unreal Engine)
  -Weak story
  -Lame script
  -Abysmal controls
  -Useless, frustrating combat system
  -Complete lack of visual and control 
 options
  -Weak gamepad support
  -Buggy level design
  -Broken, unfinished, unpolished product.
  
  To sum it up, if you find this game in the bargain 
 bin, and you have nothing else to play, don't pick it up and replay something with a little more 
 replay value. Maybe pick up the original LSL and give that a go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozcetinilker
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 8:45 am PT
Review:  I've played all of games that named Leisure Suit Larry. They were adventure and very funny games 
 but the last one is distugting. 
  At this time they tried to make an action game but camera don't let you do something. At first 
 you must learn how to be patient and how to play with a stupid mouse support. The game is for your 
 little sister/brother, but even they play maximum 30 minutes . It's not an adult game, not a funny 
 game, not a playable game, not a game, it's something different that makes you hate Leisure Suit 
 series.
  If you want to remember a funny serie that named Leisure Suit, please don't play and don't watch 
 any movie of this game. It really sucks from start to the end. It's an insult for Larry fans.
 
  I missed Larry in 2D graphics, excellent jokes, nice riddles and funny-erotic themes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luka89
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 3, 2009 5:05 am PT
Review:  The game sucks, Larry Magna Cum Laude was funny and playable. but this one is just trash, dont 
 waist the time! The game has a few little funny lines and thats all. No babes like in the previous, 
 all girls look the same and are build on the same princip. not like in the old Larry, every babe 
 was different and i mean really different from a skinny type, to a big type, small breasts, big 
 breast, lesbian, black, mexican, latino - the game was full of different babes and choices, the 
 mini games were fun and interesting. in the Leisure Suit Larry: Box Office Bust THE GAMES suck, 
 its boring, every now and then you got time limitations and its just not payable. i spend a few 
 days trying to give this game a chance, but its so bad it doesnt disserve to be publish and selld. 
 this game is crap and i hope if people are going to make a new Larry, lets just say make it simmilar 
 to Leisure Suit Larry: Magna Cum Laude! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stev69
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 2, 2009 11:00 am PT
Review:  Quite possibly the most pointless game ive ever played. boring gameplay, infuriating camera angles 
 and a VERY poor conversion from console to PC, really looked as if they couldnt be bothered to 
 convert it at all. It is an insult to Al Lowe to call this game Leisure suit larry. Honestly I 
 urge you not to waste your money on this, I dont even want to waste my time doing a comprehensive 
 review of it, thats how bad it is. The only reason I am continuing to write the review, is because 
 gamespot has some stupid minimum amount of words to be typed.
  
  The graphics are good and the voice acting is well done, but that really doesnt do enough to cover 
 up the fact that its a very poor game. It requires little to no thought at all to play, there are 
 no puzzles to solve, just Marioesque platform action, which combined with the unresponsive and 
 annoying camera angles gets old very quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wm_maw
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 2, 2009 6:57 am PT
Review:  Larry was the funniest game ever. Sex failed cut scenes were good for a laugh. Now all it's reduced 
 to dumb mini games, no dumb bimbo action on Larry's part. The game becomes quickly boring and repetitive 
 with no payback - no kiss, no nothing. I hate this game, made me lose a night until I realize it's 
 nothing good about it. Just dumb jokes... and that's about it. My advice... do not buy this if 
 you are a LSL fan, this game just has the name but nothing about a true LSL game excitement - it's 
 for kids below 15 years old, not above 15 years old. Conclusion: rest in peace Larry. They killed 
 you.
  And one more thing. Larry is not Larry no more: they made him look quite good, and some ladies 
 adore him. That is not Larry, they should be disgusted by him, so he had to make something for 
 them in order to make them reject him - bad. Now you do everything right but then when it comes 
 to the "reward": you wake up, you go alone to the bathroom, you forget you are a guy... it's just 
 plain stupid.
  Do not buy this game for Larry's sake. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
