-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Leisure Suit Larry: Love for Sail
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/leisuresuitlarry7lfs/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 27, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 8.0, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 493 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Oct 31, 1996

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Unless you're the proud owner of the Three's Company box set, this game will likely get old quick. 
 

 Larry's libido is put to the test yet again in Leisure Suit Larry 7: Love For Sail! - the latest 
 in Sierra's swinging series. Who knew you could stick so many sexual innuendoes on one CD-ROM? 
 This time Larry is the happy captive on a cruise. Clever little remarks like "Leisure Suit Larry 
 fills his rubber dingy with sea men," fill the disc. Raunchy, yes. Funny? Not for long. Unless 
 you're the proud owner of the Three's Company box set, this game will likely get old quick. And 
 the gameplay? There's nothing new to see.   

 After escaping a house fire and the fiery clutches of Larry's vindictive girlfriend, the great polyestered 
 one takes to the seas. Impossibly voluptuous creatures like Captain Thygh, Dewmi Moore, and Wydoncha 
 and Nailmi Jugg prance around the ship, and your job is to have your way with them. But it doesn't 
 come easy. You have to employ exactly the right moves and grooves to score. The biggest difference 
 between the latest Larry incarnation and more recent chapters is that Love for Sail! borrows from 
 the old days of the game series. You can interact with other characters by picking from a list 
 of dialog options, or you can use the classic text interface. In fact, you won't solve many of 
 the scenes without using the text interface, which helps to keep things challenging.   

 If things get too challenging, wait around and you'll hear audio clues. But you probably won't need 
 much help at all. There are hours of senseless rhetoric, ranging from the mildly amusing to the 
 downright disgusting. Little tricks like a scratch and sniff game (a device taken straight from 
 the Infocom classic Leather Goddesses of Phobos) and a raunchy take off of Where's Waldo are amusing 
 and help give the game a little more staying power. But once the initial joke wears thin, you're 
 basically done. You will probably be more amused coming up with dirty knock-knock jokes.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Mr_Laffer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 8:50 am PT
Review:  What i like gamespot for:
  - cool design of the site
  - great community
  - lot o information about games
  - big game archive
  
  What i dont like about gamespot:
 
  - reviews
  
  This game should be mentioned together with great adventure games like Toonstruck, Day of the Tentacle, 
 Feeble Files (also definately underrated by GSpot) and so on..
  
  There is no other Larry game containig that much sex, and naughty humor. The dialouges are hilarious! 
 In every sentence spoken, theres irony hidden. Lets start with the graphics.. not revolutionary, 
 but those big sprites fit very well and you get a perfect atmosphere of beeing on a filthy Lovecruiser. 
 Ok, the animations arent the best, but for the first time in a Larry game, you ll be probably attracted 
 by the girls on the ship. I caught myself nearly falling in love with Drew Barringmore (i m not 
 sick or something!!) .. so overall, characters and backgrounds are great drawn, i think even for 
 today it would look great (thanx SVGA) . Compared to todays rendered soulless adventures this game 
 would be still on the top for me!
  
  The sound is also great! By great i dont mean, you dont notice it through playing, by great i mean 
 it fits perfect to this game. The Intro music by Al Lowe should be familiar to those who played 
 an Larry adventure before. I think this theme fits perfect on the Larry Games, there coulnt have 
 been a better one. But this is nothing new, cause you know it from the other Larry Games. The music 
 on the ship is also great! Take a trip to the poolside... where this muscle guy forces you to wear 
 that rediculous swim suit. I always stayed there a few moments listening to the great music. Or 
 the casino scene.. also great sound. Music and Graphics will make you wish there would be really 
 this kind of Loveboat, you could spend your horny holidays!
  In combination with the Sniffmaster 3000, a card with 9 fields you had to rubbel deppending on 
 the number appearing on the screen (card was included in the gamepackage) , this game made me wish 
 it would never end... Drew your coconut lotion smells soooo good!.. beware of rubbing the field 
 belonging to Larrys "room".
  
  Lets get to the most important thing the gameplay:
  It all starts where Larry 6 ends.. after a Night with Larry, the yoga practicing, nature loving 
 hippie woman, Larry finally "scored" at end of part 6, isnt the same any more. After having some/her 
 fun with Larry, she turns into a moneyhungry, meneating **** so she decides (in the middle of coitus!) .. 
 to leave Larry! Yes she just leaves him handcuffed to the bed. A burning cigarett causes the bed 
 to catch fire... here is where the prologue begins. The first thing you have to do is escape from 
 the bed and then from the burning hotel. After this scene the real game starts. Larry decides to 
 take a trip on a Loveboat. On this Loveboat theres a contest. The winner gets a night with the 
 shipcaptain (a women) captain Thyge. But this isnt the only women, Larry will have contact with. 
 No, it seems in this game, Larry has more sex than in all other Larry adventures together.
  The whole story is commented by the really cool narrator. Also while listening to the dialouges 
 between Larry and the narrator you could piss yourself in the pants. You can also "type" words 
 like in the first Larry adventure instead of using the mouse... this gives a lot of possibilities 
 of things to do with a piece of cheese.. just try out and fullfill your darkest desires.. you pervert!
 
  
  So great characters, great dialogues, great music and graphics make one of the best adventures 
 ever made.
  
  And everyone who has played the game for longer than 5 mins, would never rate it a 6.7... its a 
 shame! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: otomayim
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 3, 2007 3:27 am PT
Review:  To be honest i'm not a big fan of the series but i like adventure games so i finished this one 
 and i have mixed feelings about it. Larry is on a ... love boat and as usual he has to use his 
 brains (?) and charm (?!?) in order to earn the sympathy of a few gorgeous looking -for video game 
 standards-, hand - drawn women. .
  
  Graphics - The title has nice cartoon-like graphics with good animation and a few funny videos. 
 Not sth too impressive, but it looks good nevertheless. .
  
  Sound - Nice music that creates a groovy atmosphere, humour that varies from excellent to irritating 
 and interesting (...) sound effects. The voice acting is helping this game very much. .
  
  Gameplay - Nothing ground breaking here. The usual stuff... having your inventory, using items, 
 combining them, lots of dialogue options. There are a few things that i would like to stretch out. 
 One has to do with the interaction interface. You can either select an action from a predetermined 
 list of options or you can use your own simple commands through a text interface ( Cut , Break 
 etc) . This makes the title a bit challenging at times since you'll have to find the right action-phrase 
 in a few circumstances. .
  
  Another issue with the game is the fact that it isn't linear. According to your progress you 'll 
 open new areas inside the boat -previously unaccessible- and after you finish a sub-chapter (earn 
 in a competition and gain the respect of one of the beautiful ladies -or more at once (...) - ) 
 you 'll have less areas to cause you troubles. Sometimes this non-linear approach may become a 
 bit confusing. There are also a few mini games that add a bit variety to the gameplay ( without 
 being sth special) . However the title isn't as challenging and difficult as other games of its 
 kind. .
  
  Value - Not a very lengthy game. You may finish it in less than 30 hours. And after that there 
 are a few strange pick - ups that you can have, a few easter eggs and for the perfectionists / 
 masochists the classic point gaining system (1000 max points) that you can find in many Sierra's 
 similar games. .
  
  Final Thought - Should you buy it? The answer depends on two factors : 1. your sense of humour 
 and 2. your age. If you are around 18 (the game is for adults) , fan of the series and like this 
 kind of humour (with many sexual innuendos) the answer is yes. Else the title isn't worth your 
 money and your valuable time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 14, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Well so far at the start of Leisure Suit Larry: Love for Sail!, Larrys adventure takes 
 place immediately after Leisure Suit Larry 6: Shape Up or Slip Out! Once again, we meet him in 
 a hotel penthouse, with the girl of his dreams. So anyways the game starts with Lar cuffed to a 
 bedpost (need I say more? lol) . So you get on another cruise and you meet a whole bunch of ladies 
 that you have to suduce. Larry meets lovelies such as Drew Baringmore, Dewmi Moore, Victorian Principles, 
 Wydoncha and Nailme Jugg, Jaimie Lee Coitus, and Ms. Annette Boning. There are also a bunch of 
 mini games and puzzles that you have to do along in the game which are not to bad. Oh and one more 
 thing I should mention is that there is a list of diologe for you to choose from to talk with other 
 chacters which is pretty cool.
  
  Graphics: All the character arts are hand drawn in cartoon style. so pretty much, it is all 2D 
 so that you do not need one of those newfangled 3D cards to play this game. The animations are 
 all well done but they can sometimes be choppy. The visual decor of the game is even more amazing 
 to look at.
  
  Sound: The sound effects well done and Soundtrack is well suited for the game. The voice acting 
 is also well done aswell. Value: all in all this is a very fun game and should not be missed, but 
 one word of warning..... This gsme is very adult oriented.
  
  I give this game 8.5 out of 10 but I don't understand why Gamespot gave it such a low rating........ 
 Anyways have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mayoraldigital
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 5, 2006 12:11 pm PT
Review:  I remember playing the original Leisure Suit Larry and the Land of he Lounge Lizards game with 
 my friend on his (new at the time) monochrome monitor. It was fun playing the playful character 
 of Larry as you tried to get him hooked up with a Lady. We spent countless hours starring up at 
 that green and black screen. 
  
  I went on to play other games of the series. This one was one of the better games overall. It had 
 great graphics for a LSL game. The sound was also the best I have heard from the series. The play 
 is basic click the mouse to move game and choosing the right things to say to the Ladies, hoping 
 to get Lucky. Also the game had a little more moments of adventure and lots of low brow humor.
 
  
  After Larry successfully gets together with a Lady the game gave you a screen saver of that Woman 
 in a seductive pose. Unfortunately the game was made for Win 98 and now that i've upgraded to XP 
 it is no longer playable on my system. Sometimes i really miss those Leisure Games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: galinthas
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 6, 2006 5:50 am PT
Review:  Leisure Suit Larry, Love for Sail is a fun, and somewhat witty installment of the LSL series. The 
 game finds Larry in desperate need for a vacation, and as a result he turns his amorous sites to 
 the many varied targets on the very popular cruising industry. 
  
  A simple, click and manipulate game - LSL: LFS provides constant engaging gameplay. Its use of 
 humor and sexual innuedo without going over the edge grants this game a lot more credibility than 
 it otherwise would have had.
  
  The ease with which the new user learns how to navigate the various menus and mouse menu-driven 
 action sequences allows for a quick learning curve. Meanwhile, the ever hard-luck Larry finds new 
 and inventive ways of striking out with the many and varied characters on board. 
  
  I personally found the subtle play on various celebrities names a constant source of entertainment, 
 and at times found myself struggling to keep up with all the humor, subtle jokes and remembering 
 to engage in the odd "scratch and sniff" element included.
  
  Overall, I would recommend this game to fans of the LSL series, and even the casual gamer who's 
 looking to have an easy break from the norm and can relate to the struggles of the ever determined, 
 but always unlucky Larry. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
