-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Le Mans 24 Hours
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/lemans24hours/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 25, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.1
Critic Score: 6.7, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 53 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Genre: Formula One Racing
Date:     Jun 1, 2002
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Le Mans 24 Hours is just not good enough compared to today's top-level computer racers. 

 If you want to milk something, you'd best make sure it has milk to give. Le Mans 24 Hours has been 
 around in some form or another since late 1999 when Infogrames inked a North American distribution 
 deal with the game's original developer, the British studio Euthechnyx, and immediately relabeled 
 it Test Drive Le Mans to fit within its newly acquired Test Drive franchise. It has since appeared 
 on a number of platforms and in a variety of incarnations and has been re-re-released for the PC 
 under its original European title. Unfortunately, no number of guises can change the fact that 
 Le Mans makes a far better console game than it does a computer game. Despite the work of a new 
 developer, Australia's Melbourne House, and a modified physics engine that admittedly makes it 
 slower and more realistic, Le Mans has awkward control, horridly clumsy interfaces, and several 
 annoying console game conventions. In short, Le Mans 24 Hours has been milked over and over again 
 without ever receiving a serious face-lift for the PC, and that's just not good enough compared 
 to today's top-level computer racers.           The cars look gorgeous in the game's postrace replay. 
    

 It won't take you long to realize that Infogrames has done minimal work to ready a game for the 
 PC that was clearly designed with consoles in mind. For instance, Le Mans 24 Hours' menu system 
 is shockingly inefficient. The game forces you to access nearly a dozen minimally adorned interfaces 
 just to set up basic parameters and enter an event. It lets you use your mouse for some general 
 selections but permits keyboard-only commands for more specific options such as garage modifications. 
 And should you exit the game and restart it later, you must make sure you've entered your preferences 
 and exited the preference interfaces in a certain way, or the game may not have saved them for 
 you. And even then you'll be forced to endure the "launcher" and "3D card setup" windows each time 
 you play. That some of the game's "cancel" buttons actually mean "accept" and other "cancel" buttons 
 are actually "back" buttons is strangely inconsistent. Worse still, the Le Mans race loading and 
 unloading routine creaks along at glacial speed. Even on an extremely fast computer, you can expect 
 waits of 20 seconds or more every time you enter or exit an event. Alternate install methods do 
 nothing to alleviate the situation, because there are no alternate install methods. Watching that 
 green progress bar creep across the bottom of the screen will quickly become one of your least 
 favorite pastimes, as will watching the game attempt to roll its credits every time you win one 
 of its many championship rounds.   

  If and when you do come to grips with Le Mans 24 Hours' obvious menu quirks, you will see that 
 the game is indeed versatile. Featuring the same sleek, high-powered close-wheeled production and 
 purpose-built GT and prototype cars that frequent the famed round-the-clock 24 Hours of Le Mans, 
 the game delivers a variety of racing modes and options. Beginners may wish to avail themselves 
 of the quick race mode, which lets them select a track from 13 real-life circuits or variations 
 thereof, choose one of 70 available automobiles, and compete against others in an abbreviated race 
 length. More-experienced drivers will undertake the championship mode, where they'll compete against 
 novice drivers in the three-race rookie GT series before moving to more prestigious events involving 
 longer races, better drivers, and variables such as inclement winter weather and pit stops. Winning 
 each round in the championship mode unlocks the increasingly faster, more capable cars required 
 in succeeding stages.           Even the Le Mans name-selection routine is strictly arcade.    
 

 Veteran racers will undoubtedly want to test their mettle at the game's namesake racetrack. In this 
 mode, drivers will need to employ all they've learned in prior modes and intelligently deal with 
 variables such as tire wear and changes, fuel stops, and other prerace and midrace options. The 
 Le Mans mode is definitely the most difficult and the most grueling, particularly if you opt for 
 the actual race distance of 24  real-time  hours. Even if you select compacted race lengths of 
 10, 24, or 240 minutes, the game automatically turns day into night and night back into day. The 
 game will also subject you to environmental situations such as rain and full-blown storms, both 
 of which may be confined to just a section of the monstrous 13.6-kilometer circuit.    

 In fact, Le Mans is most graphically impressive when displaying these time-of-day and weather variables. 
 As daylight slowly transposes into dusk, twilight, and evening, the ambient lighting moves from 
 a warm, orange glow to a dusky gray and finally to a moonlit night. Thankfully, the game never 
 envelops you in complete darkness even during an evening rainstorm -- the glow of your own headlights, you're 
 your competitors' headlights and taillights, and the trackside lamps in grandstands and various 
 peripheral objects help keep things workably illuminated. The lighting itself is downright gorgeous 
 when near your vehicle but strangely accentuated and indistinct when viewed from a distance.   
         Le Mans cars kick up plenty of thick smoke when they drift offtrack.    

 Otherwise, Le Mans puts on a compelling but sometimes-inadequate graphics show. The actual circuits 
 are nicely rendered and filled with interesting elevation changes, twists and turns, and enough 
 pavement variances and motion-blur effects to effectively suggest an impressive sense of speed. 
 The game's trackside scenery is believable but not overly dense or spectacular, yet the clouds 
 overhead and the dust plumes created from offtrack dalliances are eerily convincing. The fully 
 decaled vehicles, which look just fine from the various alternate cameras of the postrace replay, 
 seem rudimentary and bereft of reflections and lighting effects when you're racing with them. Drivers' 
 heads bounce realistically up and down and back and forth in accordance with vehicular movements 
 and turn to peer into upcoming turns. Unfortunately, the game does not feature rearview mirrors, 
 instead opting for the antiquated and inefficient "look back" function.   

  Le Mans delivers a mixed audio experience. Although tires squeal and chirp with admirable realism 
 during heavy braking and hard cornering and thus offer a good indication they've been pushed beyond 
 acceptable limits, the motor purrs rather than growls and features virtually no bottom-end frequencies. 
 Furthermore, your own engine notes are lost among those of the other cars, with no way to adjust 
 the settings. Ambient music is available for those who want to listen to tunes as they carve their 
 corners, and the gathered throng of spectators reacts to positive and negative events, unleashing 
 a cheer or a groan when applicable.   

  Driving a Le Mans car is a puzzling experience. On the upside, it does behave according to its 
 described strengths and weaknesses. If the game tells you that your selected vehicle has good acceleration 
 or particularly strong handling, it acts as such on the track. If you've dialed in more or less 
 downforce, lessened the fuel load, or slipped on some soft tires, you will feel the difference. 
 What's more, the AI drivers are very good, keeping needless bumping to a minimum while exhibiting 
 authentic aggressiveness and capabilities. Long multilap dices are not uncommon. Tires degrade 
 as races wear on, slipstreaming increases top speeds, and cars bounce about when running over rough 
 pavement.           This is the closest you'll get to a true cockpit view.    

 Yet the actual art of driving a racecar has somehow been lost on the Le Mans programmers. In short, 
 the game does not deliver a believable driving experience. Rather than motoring along on top of 
 the track, you'll feel more like you're somehow magnetically attached to a long rail that runs 
 down the center of the pavement. When turning, even just to make a quick pass on a straightway, 
 your car reacts sluggishly and acts as if it's doing something it wasn't intended to do. When taking 
 a real corner, you're practically forced to park the thing before cranking the wheel, otherwise 
 you'll simply continue in a semistraight path right into the wall or grass. Even if you take the 
 time to modify the game's control device parameters from their highly dubious default settings, 
 a vehicle in Le Mans 24 Hours remains an unrealistic oddity.   

  These physics quirks force you to adopt not only an unusual driving style, but several questionable 
 tactical maneuvers as well. In Le Mans, you'll inevitably use other cars to stop your own, smacking 
 them seven ways from Sunday in the corners and taking full advantage of the game's unfortunate 
 "no damage" policy. In fact, you may be able to transpose the front of your car into the side of 
 theirs without any effect whatsoever, so you'd best make sure to bump 'em hard. Whatever you do, 
 make sure you don't put four wheels off the pavement or you'll slow faster than if you'd jammed 
 on the binders. Clearly then, cutting even the tiniest of corners or jumping the curb is a strict 
 no-no.   

  With an MSRP of just $29.99, Le Mans 24 Hours is not totally unlikable. Nevertheless, it has experienced 
 a variety of revisions and exhibits a dated feel, a distinct console facade, and quirky physics. 
 That its multiplayer support is restricted to two drivers via split screen on a single computer 
 comes as no surprise. Indeed, it is high time for Infogrames to milk something else -- because this 
 game's pretty dry.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
