-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Lemmings Revolution
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/puzzle/lemmingsrevolution/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 22, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 7.4, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 150 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Take-Two Interactive
Developer: SCEE
Genre: Action
Date:     Apr 30, 2000
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The gradual learning curve, simple interface, and new features make it a great game for Lemmings 
 novices and veterans alike. 

 The Lemmings series is revered by both puzzle- and strategy-game fans, especially those who enjoy 
 solving puzzle after mind-wracking puzzle into the wee hours. In Lemmings Revolution, developers 
 Psygnosis and Take 2 have combined the addictive gameplay of the original Lemmings with smooth, 
 accelerated 3D graphics. The gameplay and graphics are complemented with an interface that makes 
 the game both easy to learn and fun to play. Were it not for a few bugs the game shipped with and 
 a marked lack of settings options, Lemmings Revolution might have been the ultimate game for Lemmings 
 fanatics.   

  The Lemmings gameplay is inextricably linked with the nature of the actual Norwegian rodent, which 
 is famous for its bizarre migrating pattern in which huge masses of lemmings often end up careening 
 into the sea to their deaths. Basically, a Lemming will stop at nothing to complete its migration. 
 As in previous Lemmings games, each level in Lemmings Revolution requires that you get a certain 
 number of lemmings safely from point A to point B. Point A is a box out of which your lemmings 
 drop one by one. Point B is an escape balloon waiting in another area of the level. In between 
 the points lies a host of traps and obstacles that this procession of little critters must negotiate. 
 Lemmings won't try to save themselves - instead they walk aimlessly off every steep cliff and into 
 every skull-crushing spike and pool of lava in their path. As the lemmings march on relentlessly, 
 you must assign them skills to help them surmount these obstacles. The various skills have remained 
 largely the same since the original 1991 game, and they include abilities such as building walkways, 
 climbing, digging through platforms, and gliding down from high above. You're allocated a finite 
 number of each skill to assign per level. As the levels increase in difficulty, you're given a 
 wider variety of skills and a fewer number of each skill to spare. This is where the gameplay begins 
 to get intensely challenging and fun.   

  As the levels become more complex, you must take a number of other elements into account. One new 
 feature, the antigravity pad, makes for some interesting situations. When a lemming steps onto 
 one of these, it flips upside down, landing either on the ceiling or on the ground, depending on 
 where it started. With a few antigravity pads on a level, you're faced with the task of making 
 sure the marching horde doesn't fall downward - or upward - to its death. Also, there are switches 
 you'll have to toggle. Often you'll have to guide a single lemming to an area where it can trip 
 a switch, which in turn triggers an event such as rising water or a retracting barrier. Water and 
 acid pits also come into play relatively soon in the game. To traverse these safely you must employ 
 water and acid-oriented lemmings, respectively. The wide variety of game elements opens up many 
 gameplay possibilities.   

  In spite of the new additions, the classic Lemmings gameplay remains intact in Lemmings Revolution. 
 However, the revolving 3D levels put a new spin on the action, literally. Part of playing the game 
 involves constantly rotating the cylindrical map in order to keep an eye on your lemmings' activities. 
 Rotating is easy, as it simply requires that you right-click and drag. The game also has a good 
 pause feature. As levels get increasingly harder, you can pause mid-game and rotate to check the 
 position of each lemming. This gives you time to plan out a strategy. While paused, you can select 
 any lemming onscreen to ready it for its next job. Once you assign the lemming a task, it immediately 
 goes to work, and the game un-pauses. To really hone in on what you're doing, you can hit the space 
 bar to zoom in and out of the map.   

  Like previous Lemmings games, Lemmings Revolution has great level design. The early levels are 
 simple, and they serve to acquaint you with the various types of lemmings skills. Later levels 
 become increasingly difficult, as they force you to plan and manage your resources with the utmost 
 care. Whenever you complete a level, two slightly tougher levels become available. This means that 
 if a level becomes frustrating, you can simply quit to the level-select screen and take a stab 
 at another. Still, it would have been nice if the developers could have included the auto-replay 
 feature found in 3D Lemmings, where the computer replayed a level up to the point where you chose 
 to take over for yourself.   

  Lemmings Revolution is probably the finest-looking game of the series, yet fans of spectacular 
 3D effects may be disappointed, as the levels are a bit stark. Of course, this graphical compromise 
 means that the game will run smoothly on 266MHz systems on up. You may have scores of lemmings 
 wandering onscreen during a game, but the graphic simplicity of the levels ensures that slowdown 
 isn't likely to occur.   

  As it is, Lemmings Revolution lacks any kind of video options, and it won't let you assign your 
 own controls. What's more, it shipped with a few sound, video, and input-device bugs that may cause 
 problems for some players who are loading up the game for the first time. The game practically 
 begs for a patch that addresses these issues.   

  Nevertheless, bugs or no, Lemmings Revolution is still a blast. The gradual learning curve, simple 
 interface, and new features make it a great game for Lemmings novices and veterans alike. If you're 
 a fan of the series, or you enjoy action-packed puzzle games, then you probably shouldn't hesitate 
 to take the plunge and dig out 20 bucks for Lemmings Revolution. On the other hand, you may want 
 to wait until a patch is available.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: athenian29
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  Lemmings Revolution is one of my favorite games ever. I've fallen in love with it time and time 
 again, and it pains me to point out it's flaws, of which there are TWO! Count 'em, TWO!
  
  Let's get to the skinny. Lemmings Revolution is a fun, three-dimensional take on the Lemmings style 
 of play. The basic premise is identical; the player must guide a little parade of lemmings through 
 a maze of obstacles, telling them to dig, bash, build, and even self-destruct themselves to get 
 to the little gate to utopia at the end. Revolution quite literally spins the mazes around, in 
 that the mazes are rolled back on themselves like a soup can label. The lemmings can go around 
 the whole circumference of the maze, and walk everywhere around the little ledges that stick out 
 from the cylinder. This new take on the game doesn't add a whole lot of new strategy, but it is 
 useful to be able to go in a downward spiral on some missions.
  
  The story is pretty generic. The weasels, having always taken delight in the demise of lemmings 
 through drowning and dismemberment and such, have gotten bored with all their lemming death home 
 videos. To curb this boredom, they rounded up the lemmings and put them in these cylindrical mazes 
 I was talking about earlier. The player is tasked with saving the poor lemmings from being sliced 
 and sish-kebobbed, or whatever. The missions are arranged in a sideways pyramid shape; you start 
 with three or so missions at the very left collumn, and when you beat a mission you unlock the 
 two directly to the right. This lets you beat the game your own way by choosing which missions 
 you want to beat. Of course, you can be a perfectionist like me and beat each and every one, but 
 you don't have to.
  
  As I said, there are two problems with this game. One, compatability may be questionable, although 
 I haven't tested this on my geForce 8800 Superclocked graphics card yet. Two, this game gets really 
 hard, and indeed nigh impossible by the time you reach the middle rows of the mission tier. Still, 
 the missions are doable and all the more rewarding when you beat them.
  
  When it comes down to it, if given a choice, there is no other puzzle game I would rather play 
 than Lemmings Revolution. It is truly one of the flat-out greatest puzzle games ever. Just play 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reload-damnit
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Atleast once a year, i'll be tidying my room and stumble across my old Lemmings Revolution CD. 
 I'll install it, and begin playing again. I'll be reminded of the simplicity and the way of thinking 
 that made this game one of the funnest after school activities for me back in 00. The storyline 
 I find hillarious, yet it doesn't push into puzzle solving qualities of the game that make it so 
 enjoyable. 
  
  Perhaps my favourite part of the game, is when you reach a level you cannot solve, you are not 
 required to finish that specific level, you can sidestep it to reach the final level. This fact 
 alone makes it an outstanding puzzle game, and being such an old game, little exists of walthroughs 
 and solutions on the net. This truly is the ultimate puzzle game, not too hard but not too easy. 
 So next time you're at you're at a Garage sale and see a copy, be willing to fork out the $5 price 
 tag for several hours of enjoyment. 
  
  Its no zelda, but I love it! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
