-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Lineage II: The Chaotic Chronicle
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/lineage2thechaoticchronicle/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  2, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.4, 40 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 2,709 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: NCsoft
Genre: Fantasy Online...
Date:     Apr 27, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Depending on how you look at it, Lineage II offers either a repetitive grind or a stiff challenge. 
 

  NCsoft's fantasy-themed massively multiplayer game, Lineage II: The Chaotic Chronicle, definitely 
 isn't for everyone. While it's certainly pretty to look at, the game focuses primarily on fighting 
 monsters repeatedly to earn enough funds to purchase the exorbitantly priced weapons and armor 
 you need to survive -- a decidedly different approach than that of most other recent online role-playing 
 games, which have attempted to alleviate these very issues. This differing emphasis is likely due 
 to the fact that Lineage II was originally developed for the Asian market -- so a few things may 
 have been lost in translation.  

          The game has minimal player-versus-player combat at this time. Right now, you mostly fight 
 monsters.     

  Like in other games of this sort, Lineage II lets you create a single character before you go out 
 on adventures in a persistent online world, where you fight monsters, gain experience levels, and 
 recover treasures with thousands of other players. Having good gear and items is essential to surviving 
 and prospering in Lineage II, which makes money far more important in this game than in most others 
 of its kind. Unfortunately, while Lineage II was to have featured castle sieges and other elaborate 
 player-versus-player battle systems for powerful and experienced characters, these features aren't 
 yet implemented in the North American version of the game. While some larger guilds of players 
 have staged bigger battles, player-versus-player combat is otherwise very infrequent in Lineage 
 II. The game has a punishing "karma" system in which players that constantly attack other players 
 out of the blue become outlaws who may be counterattacked and actually lose their items, while 
 everyone else can attack outlaws with impunity.  

  The North American version of Lineage II lets you create characters from one of five main races: 
 elves, dark elves, humans, orcs, and dwarves. With the exception of dwarves (who may become craftsmen, 
 but can begin only as fighters) , these races may all start out at level one as fighters or mystics, 
 then later change to more advanced professions once they reach level 20, then again at level 40. 
 Unfortunately, it's a pretty long way just to get to level 20 -- something you can view as either 
 a challenge or a chore. Probably the latter. This is unfortunate, since high-level characters eventually 
 do get some interesting special abilities. In the early part of your character's life, you can 
 assume various quests from certain characters to earn money and experience rewards, but some of 
 the quests are rather repetitive (you'll need to kill 30 to 50 monsters of a certain type, for 
 instance) , and in many cases, these rewards aren't especially big.  

  Solo battles with monsters aren't especially exciting either; they mostly boil down to either setting 
 your character to auto-attack, then sitting back and watching (while periodically using special 
 abilities) , or to casting as many attack spells from as far away as possible until monsters can 
 catch up with you. You then have to deal with the downtime, where you sit and rest for several 
 minutes to recover. Group battles are more interesting, although at this time they seem to offer 
 about as much strategic depth as most other online RPGs. Like in other such games, the best teammates 
 know when to heal the fighters, know when to cast attack spells to finish off wounded monsters, 
 and generally know how much or little fighting or spell-casting they should engage in to make sure 
 you have minimal downtime.  

  While joining a group of other players is a great way to quickly cut through hordes of monsters 
 and earn lots of experience to gain levels, it's a very poor way to earn "adena," the game's currency. 
 For whatever reason, the amount of money you pick up from higher-level monsters doesn't match up 
 with the rising costs of new weapons and armor. So the most efficient way to play Lineage II seems 
 to be fighting weaker monsters on your own, since you'll sustain fewer injuries per battle and 
 will be able to fight longer without having to stop and rest. "Farming," or grinding away at the 
 same monsters for hours at a time to accrue money, is practically required if you plan to develop 
 your character past level 20. Perhaps as a result of this problematic economy, some unscrupulous 
 players have taken to fashioning money scams, and in the most extreme cases, players have taken 
 to farming and selling adena online for real-life cash -- an activity that is against the game's 
 end-user license agreement. NCsoft North America has apparently begun to crack down on these activities 
 at this time.  

          Lineage II at least has a distinctive art style. You'll note how some of its characters 
 wear more clothing than others.     

  While Lineage II's current gameplay may not appeal to everyone, it's certainly a game that sounds 
 decent and looks great. The game features an appropriate faux orchestral music score that plays 
 in specific regions of the game, though sound effects are pretty minimal. You'll hear short, subdued 
 audio clips for casting magic spells, and equally subdued voice samples for the game's monsters 
 and your own characters, which will mumble or grunt while fighting or performing the game's few 
 social gestures. You'll also see huge, scenic vistas that include detailed cities and elaborate 
 statuaries as well as highly detailed character models. Lineage II clearly draws inspiration from 
 Japanese animation, and its art design is stylized and consistent. The game's characters look great 
 for what they are, though the female dark elves begin the game with an embarrassing lack of clothing. 

  Depending on how you look at it, Lineage II offers either a repetitive grind or a stiff challenge. 
 In any case, the game isn't suited for more casual players who may only have time to play for 30 
 minutes to an hour. But if you're looking to test your mettle at hacking through many, many monsters, 
 Lineage II will definitely give you that much. And perhaps the upcoming large-scale player-versus-player 
 features, like castle sieges, will make the game more exciting. At any rate, it's a fairly stable 
 game that runs with only occasional pockets of lag. So if you're in the market for another online 
 RPG in which you can fight lots of monsters, Lineage II will serve that purpose, especially if 
 you plan to wait around for the game's upcoming features, which will be unveiled in subsequent, 
 free downloadable episodes called "chronicles." But if you're looking for a game that offers more 
 content, better group options, and less of a grind, you should look elsewhere, at least for now. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (124 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 28, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  The successful game Lineage, developed by NCsoft in 2001, brought an immediate sequel to the fans 
 of Lineage, which is commercially very successful, the gameplay is not that good.
  
  The game takes place in the world of the two kingdoms, Aden & Elmore, a landscape teeming with 
 evil monsters. While the game focuses on fighting monsters, PvP battles are also available. Your 
 aim is one: to become a legendary warrior in these lands and defeat the greatest monsters plaguing 
 these territories. You can team up with other online players to defeat these creatures, or siege 
 enemy castles. But teamwork is not strengthened enough in the game, which is very unfortunate for 
 an multiplayer RPG.
  
  When creating a character, you have six different races of locals to choose from. The first one 
 and most common are the humans, who live in an island not far away from the mainland. Another two 
 races are the elves, who live in the forests, and their eternal enemies, the dark elves. There 
 are also the orcs, stone warriors who live in the east, the dwarves, some little warriors who live 
 in the arctic valleys of Aden (in the northest region) , and a later addition, the Kamael, an angel-type 
 of warriors whose place of birth is a big island north of Aden, and very far from the rest of the 
 Lineage world.
  
  Each of these races can have a male or female warrior, and can be either a fighter or a mystic. 
 You can also customize from his face to his hairstyle, but it is annoying that such a game offers 
 so limited customizations.
  
  When you first set up your character, your main target is to kill monsters in order to gain experience 
 and level up. Advancing improves your health and hit points. Later on, there are more quest to 
 take on, but what makes it bad is the sens of repetitiveness which these quests have.
  
  The scenes of battling monsters are awful. Not only they are fully automized, but little sense 
 of realism do they have. Some other issues, like the blocking of AI when moving, or the late response 
 from the server occur, but only in slow connections or older systems.
  
  The graphics of the game are good, but it is not enough to impress. The environments of the game, 
 though, are very well-designed. But the strongest part of of the game is doubtlessly its music 
 which is amazing and prototypes over a series of RPG music themes.
  
  Lineage 2 is an uninspired but quite good game. But conceptional mistakes led its development into 
 a most complex designment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lingojac
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Long story short, the game requires that you spend a great deal of your waking hours hacking away 
 at monster after monster, while barely giving you enough money to buy new equipment that you use 
 to hack away at the next tier of monsters. The game boasts very-fun castle sieges and excellent 
 PvP for higher levels, though it's up to you if you want to spend so much time to get to that stage. 
 If you plan on spending your free time on more than one game (i. e. you won't spend ALL your gaming 
 time in a day playing Lineage II) , don't expect to get ahead in this game. This game is for the 
 hardcore, and all too often with Korean MMO games, hardcore means utter devotion, and people with 
 real-life jobs or who are in post-secondary education often don't have the time (or the will) to 
 bring that kind of dedication to the table, especially with such bland, repetitive PvE elements.
 
  
  There are short bursts of excitement when you first engage in player vs player battles (most likely 
 a PK battle) , but they are few and far-between. Finding a good clan, a very emphasized part of 
 this game, can make for a slightly more enjoyable experience, but it only somewhat saves the game 
 from being another grind game from across the Pacific. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samurai_Raijin
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 12:45 am PT
Review:  This was the first MMORPG I ever played. And the only memories I have of it, are the horrible PvP 
 system, the characters that looked all the same and nothing else...
  
  Lineage II is perhaps the MMORPG where you have to grind the most to level (because only a couple 
 of people reached the max level...) and if you die, you lose experience points, even if you get 
 killed by a player...
  
  The horrible PvP system consists of you dying before you even notice, or a long... PvP duel... 
 when you will stand still and spam all your stuff...
  
  No, seriously no. This game is by all means bad, repetitive and a challenge to your nerves. 
 
  
  Further Analyzation
  
  - Gameplay: Apart from the things mentioned above, there are even more bad things to mention. For 
 example, if you choose to be a healer, that's all you can be. For the rest of your miserable life 
 in that character... Raids take too long... There is no balance between the classes... The interface 
 cannot be costumized and you cannot change your key binds... Forever. Furthermore, all characters 
 look exactly the same, with the exception of armour.
  
  Gameplay: 3/10
  
  - Sound: The only thing funny in it, are the chants they do when they cast spells, and even that 
 can be annoying because you will spend a lot of time spamming spells. Nothing special about the 
 soundtrack too.
  
  Sound: 4/10
  
  - Graphism: Overrated. Might seem pretty at first sight, but then you will see everything looks 
 always the same, there is no variety in the landscape, apart from a small desert and some swamps.
 
  
  Graphism: 7/10
  
  In conclusion, Lineage II is a very bad MMORPG in my opinion, I was a fan, but once I discovered 
 other better games, L2 smelled like old bull#$%# to me.
  
  Alternatives: World Of Warcraft, Ragnarok Online
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-Draxx-I
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  The boring grinding comes in this game like in every other games, not to many other stuff to do 
 but this is how a mmorpg is .
  Other then this the game is actually really good even better then the so popular World of Warcraft (sorry 
 WoW fans) good class/sub-class system (never seen such a big class system like this) , the fishing 
 skill brings something else then constant fighting (even tho you have to fight some monsters from 
 time to time even in fishing) , really good graphics but whit this comes the big requirements.
 
  The only thing i don't like about this game is the bots that are more popular then normal members 
 but this is not the game fault is the player fault so they cant really do anything. 
  
  Features:
  
  # Choose from Human, Dwarf, Orc, Elf, Dark Elf and the new Kamael race
  
  
 # Two basic class trees: Fighter, and Mystic, but each race has its own class tree, enabling players 
 to develop their characters and specialize as they continue in the game.
  
  
  # Realistic 3D graphics made possible by a customized Unreal engine
  
  # Seamless world using 
 Unreal technology  no time delay when moving between different regions
  
  # Large-scale siege system made intensely real through 3D graphics and animation
  
  # Complex 
 political and economic systems
  
  # Community options such as clan management, hunting parties, and siege warfare
  
  # No set 
 limit to how powerful your character can grow.
  
  I really hope my review is ok, i don't have to many active reviews but i'm trying my best to improve 
 (this is actually my second review so try not to be harsh ok? ^^) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skeeter171
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  Grind Like World of Warcraf, Graphics perfect like Wow (with particulars differences)
  Enjoyable like wow
  The two mmorpg there are the same qualities and problem, but one is Korean 
 and other is from Blizzard...
  I don't know why does Gamespot so much difference about this two game ??...
  Boring grind and 
 a lack of pvp at WoW is the same at Lineage, the price of armors and weapon are the players that 
 Influence the market at every mmorpg games.
  My point of view, this "difference" that gamespot staff does is about sponsorship.
  The two games 
 are perfect and can do so much funtime to anyone.
  Do Lineage a worst point at review is something particular with editor and the game, lineage do 
 not deserve this score.
  Created with great engine of Unreal and the Great Team of Ultima Online, comes a Great Game
  
 Nonsense description will change our opinion to go play WoW.
  Brazil loves Wow.
  Brazil loves Lineage.
  And this two games deserves respect! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nathrezen
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2008 7:44 am PT
Review:  This game is the best mmorpg and it's better than EverQest2 or WoW. This game have better graphic 
 than standard mmorpg game, good skill system and very good control operation. I would to say this 
 game is mmorpg no hack'n slash game like Diablo. Diablo have only lan game and don't assimilate 
 this to others mmorpgs because its two different game types. Some people say that this game is 
 only clicking on mouse but that's not true because if you know haw to use your keyboard you will 
 see in this game you can move your character by clicking mouse OR use your arrow keys not WSAD 
 keys!!!! This game have players who are using bots and DON'T say this game bad because it's players 
 fault not game. If you're playing on serwer were people are using It's only your foult because 
 you can play on other serwer. This game is only mmorpg game so if it have more freedom it have 
 worst main quest.
  
  At and of my opinion I would to say this game is very good mmorpg and if you will play it you will 
 like it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nonesuch2
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 12:13 am PT
Review:  As an experienced MMO player, here is my review: 
  I put my pro's and cons over all at the end for those who want a simple review.
  
  Gameplay:5/10
 
  Most of the gameplay in Lineage 2 is grinding, which is great if you want a relaxing game that 
 requires little to no skill. Unfortunately even if you are constantly high all the time, or your 
 listening to internet radio, the grind will still get old eventually. 
  Other times you will be buying/selling stuff, you can set up personal shops and the economy in 
 this game is really top-notch. Its probably one of the only things they almost do right. The problem 
 is that dwarves are the only race/class that can craft/get certain recipes off monsters, which 
 means there is a huge population of dwarf alts all over the place. 
  PvP is great if you can deal with the slow paced controls. If you want a game that requires faced 
 paces strategic combat, or skilled gameplay, look somewhere else. You will find a dumbed down version 
 here unfortunately, not to mention how long you will need to play to even get there. I'd wait for 
 Warhammer online or WoW.
  
  Graphics:8/10
  Before I go on with graphics, realize this game is based off anime-like graphics that people like 
 me will rip our hair out of over. Dwarf and Orcs are the only races where you can escape this. 
 Female models have short mini-skirts, stockings, and one race has angel wings. The game is clearly 
 marketing off the idea that "sex sells" especially to certain gamers, sadly quite of people bite 
 the bait as you will see in game. Certain races have emo haircuts, emo-armor/clothing styles etc. 
 I'm not saying there is a problem with that, but be warned before playing this game that you may 
 only like a few races.
  Graphics of player models still look good today, and armor/weapon graphics are great! Environment 
 graphics are pretty terrible however, and there are no bushes, grass etc. making the world very 
 dull. The environment is not interactive, and hunting caves are just plain caves, with a few randomly 
 placed terrain models.
  Graphics are pretty fulfilling still in this game tho
  
  
  Sound:6/10
  Music is ok, but repetitive and annoying at times, sounds are the same. Over all 
 good but nothing that really brings you into the game or anything you'd really LIKE to remember.
 
  
  Controls:2/10
  Absolutely horrible controls are probably one of the worst in any game I have ever played. The 
 idea that people think there is skill to pointing and clicking on a target, then taking turn based 
 attacks with special power ups applied to weapons each attack, then using abilities while sluggishly 
 chasing after your opponent, is quite frankly laughable.
  There is no WASD option, and mouse clicking and attacking often creates opportunity to make many 
 mistakes.
  To give L2 credit, you can use certain game-made macros to find new targets, but even with that 
 its terrible, but some people who have never played an FPS game, fast-paced MMO, or any other game 
 faster than the speed of a turtle might actually enjoy it --_--
  
  Community:9/10
  The only perfect aspect of this game, is that most people you will meet are very nice and helpful. 
 Obviously everyone's experiences will differ, but it is the nicest community I have ever seen, 
 and many other people feel the same way.
  
  Over all game flow:3/10
  The game DOESN'T flow. Quests are poorly designed and mis-ordered/placed so that they do not feel 
 fluid when leveling with them. Quests are simplistic and provide limited unfulfilling rewards. 
 Most aspects of the game just don't feel like they fit and the game sometimes feels like a free 
 mmo.
  Transportation is bad and makes little sense. Pretend its like this,
  a-----b You can teleport from a to b with that distance
  a---------------------d You can teleport 
 like this too
  a----------c You can't teleport like this, because whoever designed it is an idiot
  BUT you can 
 do d to c, I mean what the hell.
  
  Pros:
  Amazing community, 
  large scale political pvp, 
  relaxing grind/gameplay, 
  good market system/economics, 
  Pwetty 
 style anime like graphics (pro or con)
  
  Cons:
  -Pwetty style anime like graphics (pro or con)
  -Requires an enormous amount of time (either you 
 play everyday many hours a day, or your don't care about leveling, or you are patient and wait 
 a year
  -Bad quests, bad game flow, poor design
  -Money is hard to get which is negative for some, positive for others
  -Controls are beyond atrocious, 
 ruining pvp combat
  
  Many may feel I am being too harsh. Many feel it is offensive for me to call this near skilless. 
 I ask that you try to play some FPS games, skill-based MMO games etc. If you wanna play this game 
 for pvp, and you don't suck, stop now and wait for AoC or WAR. If you don't mind long grinds, like 
 the market system and like good looking player graphics, this is actually a very good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: catremihut
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  this game its so complex and the beauty is that it never ends. its a game about domination and 
 the best thing is that the races r not initially enemy and the fact that they complete each other.
 
  this game is not only about lvl and army, its also about commerce and politics.
  this game its not meant to play solo, if u r a leader u can build an army made out of real ppl, 
 all classes r important (support/ tanks/ damage dealers/ nuk-ers) u cant survive by ur self.
  to dominate u have to have an army made out of clan mates and ally members ready to win the wars 
 u r engaged in, that means skill, gear and the right combinations of classes. there r also castles 
 to win witch will allow u to rule a town/region and clan halls to help u allot.
  high lvl items can be obtained only by craft, witch is possible only with a dwarf artisan, u can 
 also hope to get them by full drop but the chances are almost 0
  best game i played ever. wow is nothing compared to lineage 2
  u HAVE to try it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aremic
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2007 6:01 am PT
Review:  I am playing in this game 3 years and still I think that she is interesting thanks to this game 
 very much many people are meeting what in my opinion is a plus. The game is vaunting goods with 
 graphics and physics of the movement of the figure with wonderful graphical effects. I recommend 
 everyone who likes games 
 
   on lineage2 play 
 play!! Play on lineage2 play play!! Play on lineage2 play play!! Play on lineage2 play play!! Play 
 on lineage2 play play!! Play on lineage2 play play!! Play on lineage2 play play!! Play on lineage2 
 play play!! Play on lineage2 play play!! Play on lineage2 play play!! Play on lineage2 play play!! Play 
 on lineage2 play play!! Play on lineage2 play play!! Play on lineage2 play play!! Play on lineage2 
 play play!! Play on lineage2 play play!! Play on lineage2 play play!! Play on lineage2 play play!! Play 
 on lineage2 play play!! Play on lineage2 play play!! Play on lineage2 play play!! Play on lineage2 
 play play!! Play on lineage2 play play!! Play on lineage2 play play!! Play on lineage2 play play!! Play 
 on lineage2 play play!! Play on lineage2 play play!! Play on lineage2 play play!! Play on lineage2 
 play play!! Play on lineage2 play play!! Play on lineage2 play play!! Play on lineage2 play play!! Play 
 on lineage2 play play!! Play on lineage2 play play!! Play on lineage2 play play!! Play on lineage2 
 play play!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secondomen
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 20, 2007 3:40 am PT
Review:  Ive played retail for over 2 years. It makes me sick to think about all the time I had spent grinding 
 in the same room. Lineage 2 breaks down to nothing more than a grind. Most of the players I knew 
 started using 3rd party programs to automate the process. With this comes penaltys. The economy 
 is destroyed since players can run these bots 50 at a time and sell the money on Ebay and the likes 
 the price of rare items is through the roof. On top of that NCsoft doesnt seem to care about it. 
 Its so blatant yet report after report the bots still run rampant day in day out. As for the legitimate 
 player expect to play for 6 months to a year to get to the higher levels. Once you have reached 
 the higher levels the death penalty is stiff. I have spent 3-6 hours to gain a few percent towards 
 the next level only to die and lose all the precious XP I just earned. Whats worse is the items 
 you have are rare and can be droped with a death from a mob or a player. If you have no loved ones 
 living with you and you can tolerate months grinding in the same bleek dungeon rooms then this 
 game is for you. I suggest avoiding retail Lineage 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thomasskins
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 25, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  I have to admit i am a bit of an Nc Soft fan since i played City of heroes the forst MMORPG i ever 
 played, i diddnt think i would like online games mainly because i am a shy reserved person, but 
 as soon as i get into the CoH community i was addicted instantly.
  To date i have also played Guild Wars, Dungeon Runners, Tubula Rasa (beta) , Exteel (Beta) and all 
 games are pretty good in there own way so i decided to give Linage 2 a bash after reading quit 
 a bit about it beforehand and finding a great deal on www. play. com of only &pound;14.99 with a 
 15 day time card included plus the free 30 days works out as 45 days free so in my eyes it was 
 quite worth it.
  The first thing i have to mention about the game are the controls WSAD (normaly forward, backward, left 
 &amp; right keys) feel very unresponsive and A &amp; D seems as if you are turning in slow motion, 
 the main way of controling the game is buy Left mouse clicking to where ever you want to go, i 
 thaught as soon as i started playing that i diddnt like it ONLY because of the control system, 
 it took me quit a while to get used to it but after an hour or two i was pretty much getting used 
 to it i found that panning the camera out helps to.
  Another thing i noticed (also from reading the Linage 2 websight) is the ammount of game content 
 that has been added, just an example the Pet system which enebles you to raise a pet even a flying 
 Dragon called a Wyvern which starts off as a hatchling then moves up to a strider that you can 
 also use as a Mount.
  There is also another issue dure to be released soon which adds another race to the game.
  I 
 have only just scratched the surfice of this game so i cant really comment any further exept to 
 say if you like MMo's this one is worth a try and probabbly due to the controls you will either 
 love it or hate it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_QWER
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  At first, the biggest minuse of the game is grinding. If you want to reach high levels you need 
 to kill monsters for a very long time and you can easily lose your few hours work in very short 
 time, because of death penalties.
  But the game has very good pvp system, there is no character that can beat all in all conditions, 
 every character is good at some point. The game's graphics is good, but they're a bit plain, there 
 are'nt much small objects just plain ground and some grass, trees and stones.
  The greatest thing of the game is castle sieges, massive battles against opposite sides to rule 
 castles which can produce very much money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gitzybear
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 12:39 am PT
Review:  Lineage 2 is not about bad controls or grinding and leveling. Maybe for newbie its utterly frustrating 
 but for those that played lineage 2 for awhile, you can see the number of user reviews, its averaged 
 at 8.. the game is make for the most ambitious ones that is aspired to become the greatest and 
 richest LORD/ HERO over the land.. Being a castle lord, expanding territory, maintain his clans, 
 Siege wars and crating to earning big ADENAS its awesome FUN! Imagine LORDs that are flying on 
 the dragons seeing those pity newbies on the ground that had to complaint about poor adenas, leveling 
 and Pked by higher levels.. it is no wonder the review from them is very low.. because they have 
 to pay taxes to paid the LORD castle gate.... Why not become the LORD yourself and stop becoming 
 the complaining peasants or workers? Lineage 2 also feature best PK actions that only the nimblest 
 survived. You need to have full control and are able to have a clear mind during PvP and often 
 it only take less than 15 sec before everything ends and all MANA are used up.. Advice: If you 
 are not ambitious and clever and patient to make use of the economy dun played the game... you 
 only find it frustrating, else if you are rich in the real world, just donate to buy the best weapons 
 and armors and accessories and you can Pked everybody you don't like but nevertheless you might 
 not be the LORD and you will get bored soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpearson1970
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 15, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  All I can say is I regret buying this game. The controls are cumbersome, you only have two choices 
 of class. I was really suprised when you had to point and click to move and not use the WASD keys. 
 I prefer this over the point and click. The only good point is the graphics. I am glad I did not 
 buy any monthly time and just used the free time. I would suggest subscribing to World or War Craft 
 or LOTRO. The only reason I bought the game is because of the reviews on here. I was looking for 
 a different game other than WOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surgeonix
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  Real RPG ? not much content for this, however the game is inmensive as hell, i could be killing 
 monsters again and again, because the realistic aspects. Some classes are very funny to play. After 
 a long time playing, cant control my adrenalin levels when PvP comes. You will pay the prize of 
 death (loose xp grrr) , but is the best part of the game for most people.
  Some pitfalls (can make u quit) :
  1.- The grinding could be dissapointing for some people
  
 2.- The personal economy is a challenge
  3.- Lack of enough people, mostly in the low levels
  4.- Lot of illegal activities in-game, without 
 control from NC-Soft
  
  I played WoW, great game, but returned to Lineage II, i just love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damnelf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2007 4:57 am PT
Review:  Lineage 2 stay still best Online RPG that i have ever played. Great Roleplay and PVP combination 
 system. The game never 
 
   ... . .. . . . ..... . 
 . . .. . . .. . . . .. . . . . . ... . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . .. .. . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . .. .. . . . . . . .. 
 .. . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . .. ... 
 ... . . . . .. . . . . . . .... . .. . . . .. . .. . .. ... .. . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . .. . . . .. . . . .... . . . .. . . .... . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: epsylonic
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 11, 2007 11:55 pm PT
Review:  Sophisticated political structure and open PVP give Lineage 2 a great endgame experience. You will 
 feel pride for your clan, as well as hate for enemy clans as you compete with them for control 
 over castles and dungeons/bosses.
  
  The hundreds of hours that you have to spend grinding to get to experience clan warfare is hardly 
 worth it. PVE (leveling up) is repetitive, long and downright mindless.
  
  Get the game if you like mindless grinding, or if you want to cheat to get a high level character. 
 The highly dramatic, personal, epic, and lasting PVP experience you get in the end is worth it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xepheon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 11, 2007 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Lineage II: Interlude is the latest version of Lineage II, bursting with vivid visuals and enchanting 
 sounds. Lineage II could be considered the hardcore grind that you might not mind.
  
  First, let's get the bad news out of the way: Lineage II is dominated by hacks and cheats. NCSoft 
 claims they are continuously working to develop better methods of detecting illegal programs. It's 
 just like when you were in high school, and you told your parents that your homework was done so 
 you could play games all night without further interruptions, but really, you hadn't done jack.
 
  
  As I discovered for myself, any newbie can take a stroll around town and discover a flock of bot 
 controlled players, disguised with clever names such as, ffggfh and hdfghja . With such advanced 
 measures being taken to conceal these illegal botting activities, it is no wonder that NCSoft is 
 unable to crack down on such a serious problem.
  
  The presence of the bots is so obvious to the legit players that it isn't uncommon for players 
 to player-kill the bots for fun. After all, no one is actually playing the bot to care whether 
 it gets killed. On my first day, I tested this out by killing no less than six bot controlled players. 
 However, player-killing is not recommended as you will end up with a steep death penalty the next 
 time you die, which is where the hardcore comes in; the death penalty quickly knocks your stats 
 down right next to 0, making your character fairly useless and unable to earn the ridiculous amount 
 of money necessary to have the otherwise permanent death penalty removed.
  
  Now for the good news: Lineage II is so pleasant of an experience that you might keep playing it 
 anyway. My computer is years old and still runs on a 2.4 gig processor with an Nvidia 7800GS graphics 
 card, but the visuals are nothing less than gorgeous and the game runs smoothly. WIth HDR, shadows 
 and reflections enabled, the visuals sometimes appear hauntingly realistic. The world is subject 
 to change from day to night, producing beautiful sunsets and night skies. The musical score sounds 
 fully orchestrated and also features soft vocals (think LOTR movies) . All this, combined with fantastic 
 environmental sounds, will succeed in taking your mind somewhere far from reality.
  
  The controls and gameplay are straightforward and typical, with a point-and-click movement system 
 (or arrow keys) , right mouse button to rotate the camera, and number hotkeys for all of your actions. 
 Lineage II is extremely newbie friendly, featuring tutorials with voice recordings and extra benefits 
 for newbies, such as free buffs from town guides and plenty of simple quests to get you on your 
 way.
  
  Grinding (the main part of the game) is slightly different than grinding in similar MMORPGs. Instant 
 use healing and mana potions tend to drop from kills, as well as temporary buffs such as improved 
 casting speed and critical damage. The monsters you'll fight are depicted quite well and make suitable 
 sounds, keeping the immersion intact. Rare drops were just rare enough to make them exciting and 
 yet not impossible.
  
  I found myself not caring about the fact that I was grinding because I enjoyed simply being immersed 
 in the Lineage II world. Levelling progress came at a good pace, and the grind was easily soloable.
 
  
  Some of the spell effects could have been more dazzling, although some of the spells are impressive.
 
  
  As for the overall value of the game, Lineage II is nice departure from reality, but fails to deliver 
 a fair gaming experience to legit players. Perhaps if the game was sold as retail without a subscription 
 fee, this would even things out. For the time being, NCSoft is making easy cash off of illegal 
 and legit players alike, and seems to have no problem with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pyrotech73
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 11, 2007 2:30 am PT
Review:  This game is hell good but i don't know how to choose servers so my friend chooses i server with 
 heaps of mean people on it and the server is a pvp server almost anywhere i go i always get killed 
 by other peopleand it really sux cause i try to lvl my tanking warrior which is a human duelist/gladiator
 
  you can choose between 5 races Humans, Elves, Dwarves, Orcs, and Dark Elves i'd suggest a human 
 or elf cause the dark elves expose there underwear with male and female and they run like they 
 are wolves with 2 legs and i simply don't like orcs cause they sound like pigs. with every race 
 you get your own class path to choose you start off with a fighter or mage/mystic unit then when 
 you reach lvl 20 you can have a choice between 2 classes to change to that are more powerful then 
 the start off class and when you reach lvl 40 you can change classes again that are more powerful 
 and you can change the 3rd and last time at lvl 76 when you reach 78 you can peform a rebirth for 
 your character that will drain all your characters Experience points all the way down back to lvl 
 1 and you can increase a certain skill by 15% and you can keep all your characters items if you 
 rebirth and you can rebirth 3 times so your character will last a couple weeks
  
  all you need to do is choose the right server ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Svajokle
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2007 1:51 am PT
Review:  I playing lineage 2 about 2,5 years. I just like it, becouse then i play this game I meet some 
 people who now are my friends in real life. I trying to play more MMORPG games like WOW, pristontale 
 and ect., but this is my favourite. I don't know why. I recomend this game for all people who like 
 mmorpg games. This game is free, unless you want to play in the global server. Oh... about my favourite 
 character. I playing game wiht spellsinger (elf race) . It's my favourite, becouse i like water 
 magic very much. If you play it, you can chose from 5 clases: humans, elfs, dark elfs, orcs and 
 dwarfs. Not long ago we can chose in 6 rases. The new rase is Kamael. I can talk much more about 
 this game, but i want that people try play this game. Good luck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Venom500
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 5, 2007 7:13 am PT
Review:  What can I say. Great graphics, astonishing music and the best story i've ever seen in a MMORPG. 
 It's not as good as World of Warcraft, then again it isn't suppose to be. The gameplay is great 
 and it's easy to learn the basics. There's a lot to do and a huge world to explore, besides there's 
 a huge variety of monsters to fight and Adena and items to collect (in game currency) . As I already 
 mentioned the game's graphics are fantastic. The towns are beautiful, the player models perfect 
 and the surrounding nature makes you feel just like you where there. It certainly is a game to 
 try and never let go. Take the advice of this player that loves the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hynnin
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 17, 2007 11:06 pm PT
Review:  What if a huge game, with fantastic graphics, comes and catch your eye? Of course you'd love to 
 try it out, and when you do it, you just realize that thats not the game for you, and not even 
 for anyone, thats Lineage II.
  
  Some improvements have been made, castle sieges is one of them, it just gets funny enough until 
 you realize that your character level is pointless, the whole game lacks of content, the called 
 spirit of the game, amazing graphics cannot hold the line by itself.
  
  The fighting is impressing at the first sight, but it gets repetitive when all your skills look 
 alike, striking a foe with a bow and arrow in open field is great, it looks real and it feels good 
 to control such a character, but the whole system is a plot so your only goal is to level pointlessly 
 hunting monsters with no enjoyable quests to help in the task, of course, most MMORPGs is about 
 level, even if thats the main goal, that can't be the unique one.
  
  Lineage II does not worth its price, with that lack of content, never will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flavian2
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoy lineage2. Its probably my favorite game, better than anyother mmorp like WOW and GW. The 
 graphics are AMAZING and the gameplay will keep you going forever. There are so many different clases 
 and races to play but you dont feel much of a difference when playing on different races. Although 
 you will go through hell trying to install this game it is totally worth it. Lineage 2 is geat in 
 pvp you will really have an enjoyable experience with this game one you get to a pretty high level 
 and start beeting the crap out of everyone. Overall i would recomend lineage2 to anyone who wants 
 a world of warcraft like game but with less cratoony like graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TexTM
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 7, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  I liked the game and it was very addictive for awhile. I would sit in front of the computer for 
 about 3 hours thinking 30 minutes had passed by. It was pretty challenging though in some ways. 
 I liked it. But it got very life-consuming and so I just stopped. It was fun though. I met alot 
 of people in the game and I learned alot of new things. But it was really life-consuming. The graphics 
 were pretty good. The people I met were amazing! And overall the game was really cool. I played 
 it for about 1 or two months an then I stopped all together. I still have friends who play it but 
 not so much anymore. It got kinda old. But I'm sure the game still entertains some. It's a great 
 game. I guess it just depends on the person and what they think makes a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxMeatshieldxx
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 29, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  IMO this game is great. With a FREE expansion patch with new skills weapons every 6 months who 
 wouldn't agree. Didn't all of you WoW players have to pay for your expansion ONTOP of originally 
 paying for the game? Sure the economy is a little wacky but what game doesn't have a little problem 
 with sites that will sell you currency for a low price. Its game physics are running a little behind 
 seeing as it is a lot older than some MMOs. But anyone who is 74+ would agree that the PvP warring 
 system in this game is pristine and I couldn't think of a better way to spend the first two hours 
 of my Saturday morning drinking coffee and killing a high level raid with my alliance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Renton-
Rating: 4
Date: May 28, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Wow.... Thank God I had a 14 day free trial thingy and didnt buy this game. Simply all point and 
 click to move games suck. I hate the fact that you couldnt rearrange things to your liking such 
 as the action bars, key bindings and that you coudlnt size the items on the screen to your liking 
 like in CoH or WoW. The game has good graphics from what I saw and some other good points, but 
 none worth changing my style of play for which is using my keyboard to and mouse to click my attacks 
 and other stuff. I know that you can change the settings for the movement but its extremely limited 
 unlike many of the other GOOD games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sentinel08
Rating: 4.8
Date: May 19, 2007 7:29 am PT
Review:  I played lineage 2 for about 1 year now, and this is what i think about it. There is barely any 
 character customization. The whole point of the game is just to get to the highest level as fast 
 as possible. Me and my friends were level 40, i went to my camp for 2 weeks and when i came back 
 they were level 60 making fun of my low level. Its easy to gain levels when your a noob, if your 
 not getting pked all of the time. A high level can pk you whenever your not inside a town. Don't 
 buy this game. You might get into it for a couple of months, if you can stand getting pked and 
 losing exp all the time. If you lose too much exp, you de-level! You can hardly find any nice people 
 willing to help you, or tell you how to do something. In raids, if you make one mistake they all 
 get hostile and kick you out of the party. Don't waste a year of your life on this money sucking 
 leech of a game. DON T GET THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kalay_BG
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 17, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  Lineage 2 i cant believe i am playing that game for nearly 3 years .. I've tried about 80% of the 
 MMORPG games released but thats what keeps me for more thank week . This game never end . Exellent 
 Graphics for her time .. now a bit old but ... Sound - cant be true but the soundtrack is as good 
 as GW ones
  And for last Gameplay - the most comfurtable game i have ever played . Easy to use keys and perfect 
 interface - dont look very good but believe me its the best ... great roleplaying , superb party 
 and clan system . PvP never ends , keep leveling and keep fighting raid bosses ... you cant get 
 bored unlike the other mmorpgs .. and the thing that you can play it free if you choose to play 
 on private illegal servers is great oppurtunity to test and play the game ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: torak101
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 12, 2007 12:32 am PT
Review:  Despite the current trend in MMO's to become easier, friendlier and accessible L2 throws that right 
 in your face with one of the most mind numbing, long grinds out there, harsh death penalties, open 
 Player vs Player and group based gameplay.
  I played L2 for over a year and just recently quit. Mainly because I had my run and it was time 
 to look at some other games. The game continues to evolve with the new Interlude update and that 
 might force me to take another look.
  
  Gameplay, although the game has a tough grind and a brutal ingame economy, with friends and a good 
 clan you can easily overcome these obsticles. If you are a soloer, forget L2. You will burn out 
 a die before you hit level 40. This is a community based game. Ignore that and you are screwed 
 in L2. Its an open PvP environment so you are free to attack anyone at any time be warned however, 
 there are consequences to your actions. Players have direct world impact by fight for and controlling 
 castles. Castle control give economic benefits to the guild. All in all gameplay is smooth and 
 very good but the grind and economy can be daunting.
  
  Graphics, I scored the graphics on the fact that the game is three years old and still looks pretty 
 good. At its release, the graphics were over the top at the time. The game has low system requirements 
 but still looks great today. It has the typical Asian anime style so if you are not into that you 
 might not like it. The world and environments are beautiful as are the character models and animations 
 although the customization is a bit limited.
  
  Sound, well the ambient is pretty typical but the music is captivating. In no other game does the 
 music just drag you in and sing to you like L2. Second to none.
  
  Value, well you can usually pick up L2 in a bargain bin these days for ten or twenty bucks plus 
 all the expansions that NCSoft puts out are free. Its a great value for one of the best looking 
 games out there.
  
  I really enjoyed this game but mainly because of the community. I made some great ingame friends. 
 Because of its open environment you meet your share of butt heads but thats part of the fun. The 
 game does suffer from a few major issues. Because of the difficult economy, many people resort 
 to RMT and as a result, there are a significant number of farmers ingame. All in all, if you are 
 looking for something besides the new style easy mode MMO's where you can make an impact ont he 
 gameworld, give L2 a try. Be warned.... its a very tough game on many levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NimMroD
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  In my eyes Lineage 2 is a game made for passionate gamers its not something that can be played 
 by anyone.... patience is necessary and the reward is worth you while .... before i didn't really 
 lay lineage 2 but as soon as u find a server that suits you (pvp for inpatient people and pve for 
 people witch have the time to really enjoy the game to its fullest) i believe the official server 
 is boring a private server would be the best choice for people who want to play the game to its 
 fullest. it may be annoying to raise the character up to lvl 30 but after the second class transfer 
 you can really have fun ... its a game impossible to really learn there are to many secrets and 
 to much to do the world is bigger that World of Warcraft (A GAME MADE FOR COMPUTER NOOBS, even 
 a 10 year old can play that game ... and there are poor graphics too) . I hardly play other games. 
 I find it more than relaxing. Its the best MMOG out there ;) i recommend this game. sadly its under 
 appreciated. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 5.9
Date: Mar 28, 2007 10:20 am PT
Review:  Lineage 2, lets say:
  Lineage 2 looks good, but the controls of the game are very frustrating and the gameplay is so 
 repetitive.
  You can choose different races, but they arent really satisfying at all.
  I was expecting to see a better game then WOW or Guild Wars, but its just a failure.
  
  Gameplay:
 
  +Features a huge world to explore
  +Enough variety between enemies and weapons
  +Good class system
  -Very repetitive gameplay
  -Controls mess up the game
  -Battling enemies 
 is boring
  
  Graphics:
  Perhaps the best of this game.
  +Great detailed world
  +Characters look nice
  +No real super computer required
  -Still looks a little misty sometimes
 
  
  Sounds:
  +Overall good music that fits the game and the sounds are OK i think.
  
  Value:
  +Huge detailed world
  +Features some PVP
  -More solo gameplay then party
  -Very 
 repetitive gameplay
  -Expected a lot more of this game
  -Awful controls
  
  Tilt:
  +Overall decent impression
  -Controls are frustrating
  -No real tutorial
  -No real story, 
 you just hack and slash and try to be the best
  
  I expected so much from this game and all it does now is impress me by the looks, if you really 
 like MMORPG games, i say, go for WOW or other games.
  If you really like Diablo 2 try this game with different controls.
  See ya 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mugimugi
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 25, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  After playing L2 almost since launch and been with the game all the time, but about ready to leave 
 it and move on, I think it's about time to finally review the game from my view point.
  
  First of want to tackle some rumors who's really floating around the game
  
  First off as most 
 peoples know it's an hardcore MMO for most aspect, example penalty on death even in PVP, specially 
 as this is a PVP game, this is a big turn off for many gamers but it's also a big stand point for 
 the game, and what makes it interesting, aka there is a point to not die. Don't let it be something 
 who makes you leave and quit the game. Also a big rumor that you can drop gear in PVP is not even 
 true anymore, you can drop gear if your PK'ing enough peoples in a row, but thats about it. You 
 can neither drop gear to mobs.
  
  Another thing is the grind, first of the grind is easy right now, when the game started 3 years 
 ago it was really hard to level fast, get cash and so on, right now it's really easy for any devoted 
 player to lv fast, like you can easily hit 60 within a month playing if you put your mind to it, 
 so this is also a long past old rumor.
  
  Now to tackle the reason why I'm leaving the game, and also something who's fully true.
  
  
 Lineage 2 is a true PVP game, or at least thats what they say according to the advertisements and 
 so on, but how much PVP is there really in this game? Well if you ask me, there no PVP in this 
 game at all, the game's PVP balance is so out of whack that with the right setup, aka only a very 
 few classes aka archers, can basically 1 to 2 shot everything, a group of 9 like this can take 
 on 40-50 other peoples and it's not even about skills anymore.
  This also make it really unfair and unfun for any non archers and not really much point for you 
 to play the game. Also NCSoft have shown what so ever no actions yet so far to balance the game. 
 Only making it worser up to this date.
  
  Thats also really the #1 bad thing about the game, thers lots of minor flaws like GameGuard, Memory 
 leaks and so on who's more game client related then the game related.
  
  I still however recommend the game for anyone who like to gank peoples, start up an archer and 
 never ever switch class don't even think about playing something else.
  
  So thats about it from my strange review.
  RIP My lv 78/75/73 char. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oapik
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 17, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  There are alot of people who would say this game sucks. The thing is those people who say such 
 things just prefer to play a game where they can reach maximum level without working for it. In 
 L2 you have to work for your levels and equipment. This means that alot of action is entitled to 
 you and although it may seem tough at times, when you complete and achieve your level or equipment 
 you'll have a certain feeling of great accomplishment because you earned your way. Although it 
 takes work to get to your transfer profession once you do the world for you turns. More greater 
 skills become active to you and the equipment you begin to recieve gets better and better. Lots 
 of great action awaits in the game not only with NPC's but also in PVP. In L2 PVP is a big part 
 of the game. At any point in time you can enter PVP without entering certain areas such as battlegrounds 
 and suchs. This means that at any time you can start attacking another player, so say theres some1 
 who runs up to you and snatches a drop of yours, you have the ability to chase them down and hack 
 and slash them down. Although PVP is available at any time there is a consequence if it is done 
 outside of arenas and sieges. You become an outlaw and can be attacked by guards of cities and 
 players may take you out without recieveing the same penalty as you. But you can get rid of this 
 by fighting off the karma. Sieges in the game can be gruesome and intense too. No other game has 
 had the ability to have hundreds of players fighting one another in a siege, now thats true warfare. 
 Just check out the screenshots and videos and see for yourself. The graphics for the game are very 
 nice too and luckily you don't need that high of a performance PC to play. Although equipment in 
 the game may be expensive everything else in the game makes up for it and this is also part of 
 the game that gives you a great feeling when you've made enough money for what you want. In all 
 this game will require work put into it but in the end it leaves you with a feeling of great accomplishment 
 and well its all out fun to play in the PVE and PVP. And yes you can sell your old equipment and 
 items you find to players too so you won't get screwed on selling them to the NPC's. So if you 
 want to work and have fun then this is the game for you. Did I also mention there are 5 expansions 
 out for it and none of which you have to pay for and they keep coming. So if your looking to switch 
 over from WOW, SWG, MO, SB, and other MMORPG's then this is a great game to begin. Also the best 
 servers for here in the US is Hindermeth for Eastcoast and Bartz for westcoast. So come all who 
 think you can handle this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: venomblack
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 7, 2007 5:16 am PT
Review:  Well, there's no beating around the bush concerning Lineage 2. Yes, the game imposes death penalties 
 like exp. loss and it can take an insane amount of grinding... but in the long run, all of your 
 effort pays off and then some. The deeper you get into the game the more you appreciate how truly 
 great it is.
  
  Lineage 2 is a beautifully rendered game. The graphics are outstanding and done with an anime inspired 
 flare. Sound effects and music are great as well. You'd be hard pressed to find fault with the 
 game's presentation.
  
  Controls are fairly simple. To make your character move, you must click on a spot on the ground 
 and then you move to that point (you can use the arrow keys as well, but in my experience, it's 
 slow and it's just all around better to point and click) . This may seem an odd way of moving your 
 character about in a 3D environment, but surprisingly it works and is easy to get the hang of.
 
  
  Starting out, you pick your race (Human, Dwarf, Dark Elf, Elf, or Orc) and then choose from basically 
 two starting classes - Fighter or Mystic. But don't let a mere two starting classes put you off. 
 As you progress in levels, you get to branch out into a hierarchy of more sub-classes to choose 
 from. So, you aren't limited to just a mere two classes for the whole game.
  
  Lineage 2 has a ton to offer those who stick with the game. An advanced Clan system, robust PvP, 
 Castles, mounts, if you can think of it, it's probably in the game. This is what, in my opinion, 
 makes the game really shine. Yes, the game requires a lot of work and patience, but it is oh so 
 awesome when you achieve your goals and really get at the heart of the core game. It's much more 
 in depth than say WoW. Your work is rewarded with appropriate benefits and an outstanding game 
 experience like no other.
  
  Also, it's worth mentioning that NCSoft updates the game with huge amounts of content at regular 
 intervals, so the world is always changing, new things added and the like.
  
  Lineage 2 is one of the mose widely played MMO's. If you have the patience to actually get somewhere 
 in the game, you'll understand why so many people love it like they do. With plenty to offer, it's 
 hard to get bored with the game.
  
  Unfortunately, a lot of people may be put off with the death penalties and long grinds, but that 
 is their loss for not taking the time to see what the game is really about. Don't expect the simplicity 
 of a game like WoW. Come into this game knowing you're going to have to make a real effort to succeed. 
 It's truly worth it.
  
  On a final note, the community is very friendly and helpful. I've had great experiences and people 
 are generally able to answer any questions you may have on the L2 forums.
  
  In closing, Lineage 2 is one of the most underrated MMO's around most likely, probably because 
 people just see the surface of the game and then quit before they get to see what the REAL game 
 offers. I have not regretted my time with Lineage 2 and I expect I'll be playing it for quite some 
 time. The game is worth it, in my opinion. And in the opinion of many others as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkblaze93
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 20, 2007 9:34 pm PT
Review:  I thought the game was awesome!
  I dont know why people are so addicted to world of warcraft because Lineage 2 is crazy!
  
  
 I have played guild wars, world of warcraft, mu online, rf online and lots of other mmorpg games....
 
  
  This was the game that amazed me the most because of the graphics and the gameplay. The suits and 
 all the skills are awesome including the classes.
  
  This game to me is far better then World of Warcraft because wow is way to cartoony and it gets 
 boring very fast! Lineage 2 has now gone up to C5 and it's awesome.
  I would recommend this game to all those people that play world of warcraft so they take a look 
 at a real game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hobbesdknight
Rating: 4.8
Date: Feb 8, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  First of all, Lineage 2 if definately a step up from Lineage 1. It also has great graphics, sharp 
 in detail and colour.
  
  Now for the bashing. There is a HUGE lack of armour differences. You can tell what level characters 
 of the same class are by just looking at what there wearing. Each class only a handfull of different 
 clothing/weapons equipment. There aren't any benefits to holding on to that one waepon because 
 all weapons that come after it are so much better.
  
  The skills: Well lets say, there abosolutely no customization when it comes to each class. Everyones 
 warrior or mage or healer are going to turn out to be the same! It's not like you have a real choice. 
 Like the healer for example. Yes, I'm going to invest in healing spells (I'm a healer!) , and staff 
 mastery sinse they give magic attack and mana bonuses. Dagger for a spellcaster? Are you on acid? 
 No mana bonus and little to no magic damage bonus. It goes on the same for all the classes. Item 
 crafting: WTF? Dwarves are the only ones who can craft? Are you f&amp;*^ing kidding me? There the 
 WORST class to play with so this is how the try to balance your slow as molasses dwarf? They can't 
 kite, aren't very good spell casters (wait... CAN they be spell casters??) . The items needed to make 
 other items is ridicously high. Quests: What quests? I guess those 2 different things all the NPC's 
 give can be counted as quests. I'd call it more like **** work . These are 1.) Go kill 20-50 of 
 something or, 2.) Run across half the bloody world and talk to some dink to get **** work 1. This 
 is a total grinding game too. Just make a bot program and have it do the killing. Killing 5000 
 of the same stupid thing to get levels and enough points to buy skills erodes the human soul. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anaal14
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 15, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  Lineage is a game you should play. On the beginning it may seem boring but it will quickly change. 
 Once you change your class on lvl 20 the real adventure begins. The world is big and there are 
 much things to explore. Other people will help you. Make party's, create clans or make an entire 
 alliance. You can go party and raid one of the many raid bosses like: Baium or The Land dragon 
 Antharas. The game offers a great choice of equipment in different grades. from D to S grade. D-C-B-A-S. 
 You can buy D armors and weapons in shops with NPC's. The rest you will have to farm, buy from 
 other players or Create it yourself. Make a dwarf.. lvl him to class: Warsmith and you can create 
 anything you want. Also you will be capable of making Siege weapons.
  
  I hope you will all play Lineage 2 in the future. Currently were on Chronicle 5. Soon there will 
 be Lineage 2: The Chaotic Throne (Chronicle 6) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elrik482
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  Revolutionary PvP system. Fantastic environment. Hard Xp grid. Very easy to learn.
  Lineage 2 has brought the revolution to MMORPG games with the soulshot and spiritshot system only 
 the best can survive its not a game for the rookies not even average gamers they wont survive till 
 high lvl's.
  
  Lineage 2 its not about gameplay only, it gives the opportunity to meet many other players thanks 
 to the chat that uses i never saw a chat window so well organised. If u are not part of the community 
 and dont like to talk to other players then leave it L2 is not for you if you dont belong to a 
 clan then you cant play all time its addictive when you become part of a clan. Horrifying Bosses 
 or Raid Bosses, Clan wars, castle sieges and the search of better equipment thinks impossible to 
 do alone. But L2 is not only fights its and politics a clan can become strong when making the correct 
 allies.
  
  All those thinks make it a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acekid2
Rating: 5.9
Date: Dec 17, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  This game, as far as MMORPG's go, is a grindfest. I, personally, am a WoW addict. I also like online 
 games such as: Guild Wars, CoV &amp; CoH (those two aren't worth $15 a month, probably about $10, 
 but still good games) , and BOTS, as a little diversion once in a while. I have to say, this game 
 is one of the worst I've even tried to pick up. The point+click movement is horrible, it'd work 
 better if the camera wasn't so screwy. This game looks awesome, I know, I've been awed at the graphics 
 many-a-time. However, the whole point is PvP. It has absolutely no storyline, no half-decent questing 
 system, and they didn't even try to give you rewards by leveling up. I got an Orc warrior up to 
 level 20, one, the class selection quest was so hard it would make you want to barf, two, it gave 
 me no reward for 20 levels worth of grinding, and three, the latter is the only way to level up. 
 The quests are repeatable, (giggle) they take all of ten minutes, (lol) and they give you little 
 to no experience for completing them (rofl) . Not only does it give you very little xp and/or monetary 
 rewards, but the experience you do get is taken away from you right after you die. Bottom line, 
 if there was an award for Worst attempt at an online game that isn't worth $5 a month let alone 
 $15. , than this would be it.
  
  Message to Developer:
  
  QQ NCsoft. You screwed up big time. Shoot the person who dreampt this idea up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sampaio_poa
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  I say without any doubt, Lineage II official server is extremely boring, only bots and boring PvP;
 
  
  But the Private Servers [ Not Illegals ] are very good, nice Rate, nice People, and the best Thing: 
 The Best PvP Ever
  
  People thinks: WoW is the best game ever , OMG, WoW is just so Superficial and so Boring [ until 
 you reach the max lvl (2314981 hours of playing) ]
  
  I have Played Ragnarok, Mu, WoW, Guild Wars, Tibia, Priston, Dark Eden, and a lot of some others 
 MMORPGS, and no one have a PvP like Lineage II
  
  Remember I'm Talking About the Private Servers with rate above 8x or 10x;
  
  My Way to think 
 is Easy: If you like a Game &gt;&gt; PLAY IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ponsay
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 28, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  I played this game on the 14 day trial period and I must say that at the beginning I was enthusiastic 
 about playing it when I saw the graphics, then my enthusiasm subsided.
  
  I am a casual gamer; the only other MMORPG I play is City of Heroes/City of Villains (CoX) . First 
 off, with Lineage II (L2) you cant customize your character. When you begin you select from between 
 3 races and within those races you select your trade. I found that my characters looked just like 
 everyone elses characters, not much individualism. They could have at least made the designing 
 of your character better. During game-play, I saw 6 other players that looked exactly like mine. 
 It was like being in a land of virtual clones.
  
  Getting around in the game, in my opinion is awful. L2 uses the point-click method to get your 
 character around. No a, s, w, d keys for movement, nor arrow keys either. When I found myself 
 getting into trouble fighting, it was difficult to get away. I had to find a location that was 
 safe and click on the ground in that area (usually far away) in order to run away from my foe. 
 I know that in-gamers have told me Youll get use to it. I havent! I like having better control 
 of my character. The interface needs work. My character is on autopilot most of the time. For instance, 
 when I do battle, I have to click on the attack key and sit back and wait for the battle to end, 
 unlike in CoX.
  
  The drudge of collecting game currency (adena) is critical to successful game play. For newbies, 
 acquiring adena is key to venturing out to other lands from your starting point. Believe me, if 
 you dont venture from your starting point you will bored fast! Yet, getting adena is boring itself. 
 Killing numerous creatures, hour upon hour, just to get enough adena to buy a boat ticket was a 
 drudge. There should have at least been some way to lower the price of items in the game, because 
 everything is so costly I wont continue playing past my 14 day trial. I saw numerous dwarf bots 
 running around farming adena. From an ethical standpoint I think that is bad. No wonder I cant 
 find real players to chat with in this game, they HAVE to farm for currency in order to play 
 their main characters, whom are probably not in the beginners starting point zones.
  
  The community of L2, in my opinion is lacking. When I play CoX, there is lots of chatter and discussions 
 going on, the game has LIFE. Yet in L2, players are just standing around (usually selling something) 
 and most of the time when I try to talk to them to get more information about the game, they ignore 
 me. One time I was asking a question to a dark elf (higher lvl than me) and she killed me on the 
 spot, then laughed at me. As a newbie, I found that alone a bad way to be introduced to the game. 
 PvP should not take place in certain zones. In this way a newbie can have an opportunity to get 
 familiar with the game. Starting points should be a non-PvP area! I believe that with ALL games.
 
  
  I finally met someone that would talk to me and he was very helpful. I finally got to explore beyond 
 the starting point and a beautiful boat ride, yet he had to pay for everythingbecause I was broke! 
 He left me at a bigger town than the village, yet when I played later while he was gone, I found 
 that I was stranded. I didnt have enough adena to get back to my village (Talking Island) and 
 couldnt accrue any because I was too low a lvl to do battle in the area. Once again, I found myself 
 disliking this game even more. I spend most of my time trying to get adena, there are no fun missions/quests 
 to do at my level, and the community ignores me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tntxot
Rating: 3.6
Date: Nov 21, 2006 8:15 am PT
Review:  This Game Is So Bad That It Doesn't Deserv Being On This Site. First off all, it has no real objective, 
 no real goal, no real reward, no real incentive to play. I mean, the game is all about gaining 
 lvls to PK a weaker player, or to form a clan so do sieges... What do we gain on winning something? 
 on top off that, we have to pay to play it! Second off all, compare it with another tipe of games 
 like HL2, BF2, NFS, PES, UT, QUAKE, etc. I mean... NCSoft has more problems dealing with ilegal 
 servers or private servers, than working on theyr official. The game its almost the same since 
 a long time, the Updates and Chronicles only add a bunch off mobs and castles, and try to fix bugs. 
 Comparing L2 to some of the titles that i mentioned before, it does NOT incentive anyone to play 
 legit (players go to private servers or ebay to buy itens and stuff) , the games that i mentioned, 
 when in original form, permit the players to play online for free, create servers to play with 
 friends, play offline, practice long ours to form clans and in top off that we can enter in tournaments 
 (in our city's, our in international tournaments) that can provide real prizes (software, hardware, 
 or even $)
  Ive Played This Game In The Official Servers And in one Test (official) Server and i dont really 
 think its a game worth paying in order to play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_gab333
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 19, 2006 7:36 am PT
Review:  I think Lineage 2 is the best on-line RPG because I think it has every thing an on-line game can 
 have from a big community to high graphics that get better and better whit every new Chronicle!!! The 
 only bad thing whit almost all on-line games is that you have 2 pay 2 play the official server. But 
 if you don't have the cash to do it you can try the private servers which are legal!!! That is a 
 big difference between World of Warcraft and LineAge 2.... 1 of the differnce at least... This 
 game is worth playing and I recommend it to all RPG fanatics!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwlanning
Rating: 5.4
Date: Feb 5, 2009 11:11 am PT
Review:  What can be said about Lineage II? A game by Korean developer NC Soft, I played it from closed 
 beta until Chronicle 3. The game is truly an amazing experience visually, and also incredibly addicting. 
 However, from the viewpoint of a North American gameplayer, the game has critical flaws that cannot 
 be overcome.
  
  First of all, like most MMOs, the game has a level grind. Unlike other MMOs, however, Lineage II's 
 level grind is absurd. It will take you months and months and months of grinding to reach a decent 
 level. Getting to 20 or even 40 can be done in a relatively short amount of time, but after that 
 you hit a wall and you'll be working on gaining one level for weeks if not months at a time. This 
 is all assuming that you play less than 10 hours a day, though. Korean powergamers, as mentioned 
 previously, routinely play more than 10 hours per day and therefore find the level progression 
 to be acceptable. As a result of spending a week to gain 10% of a level, the death penalty of 10% 
 level XP (only 1% in siege combat) means that dieing costs you untold weeks of effort for no gain 
 whatsoever. 
  
  Why be so concerned about your level, though, you ask. Lineage II's design focuses on levels, gear, 
 and money. Those three things will determine the outcome of a fight 90% of the time (organization 
 goes out the window as North American MMO players could hardly be described as disciplined) . You 
 need to get certain levels to use certain grades of gear; so unless you are in the highest level 
 bracket, you cannot hope to stand up to somebody in combat that's higher than you. All this means 
 is that in the power struggle between political factions, gear and levels reigns supreme and is 
 the cause of untold frustration and internal division, especially when players die and drop their 
 40 million adena (Lineage II's currency) weapon. 
  
  The economy of Lineage II is in ruins, most notably on the three original servers Bartz, Sieghardt, 
 and Kain. This is due in part to the exploitation of early server lag to dupe items and money in 
 absurd quantities, and to the operation of "adena farmers", which NCSoft not only refuses to police 
 but actually conspiratorially seems to encourage. While NCSoft officially stands against the sale 
 and purchase of adena from 3rd party vendors, today in one transaction you can purchase as much 
 at half a billion adena from these farming companies. The market for adena is stimulated by the 
 fact that you cannot operate normally in the game without the very top gear for your level's grade. 
 Top-level items sell for what should be absurd prices, but are normal due to the super-inflated 
 economy. Thus, people who have just joined the game need to dig into their pockets just to get 
 even with the rest of the server, because trust me, it will take you years to save up 40 million 
 adena through in-game mechanics. It's a vicious cycle which could have been prevented by restricting 
 the game to North American IPs only (for instance) , something which wasn't done by NCSoft for shady 
 reasons.
  
  NCSoft has also notoriously left low-level players out in the cold with their Chronicle releases. 
 Virtually all the new content can only be enjoyed by the fraction of people at the top of the foodchain, 
 leaving low-level scrubs nothing but the prospect of plugging away for months in the vain hope 
 of someday being able to do the fun stuff. If you join this game today and don't intend on spending 
 hundreds of your own hard-earned dollars on adena for gear, you have no hope of enjoying the majority 
 of the game's content for the next 6 months, period.
  
  All that being said, Lineage II does have its moments. And if you're willing to deal with the fierce 
 levels of greed and economic inflation and willing to grind your sorry little butt off for months 
 and years, have at it. As for me, I played until I could stand no more and walked away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MEdmondsR
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 10, 2006 6:25 am PT
Review:  Do u like to run around kill monsters? Do like to run around killing LOTS of monsters? Then this 
 game is for you.
  
  However, if you are not into slowly grinding your way level through level then do not get this 
 game. They might tell you they have Quests . If you think that relates in anyway to World Of Warcraft 
 quests you are sadly wrong. Quests can be very long, tedious, boring, and incredibly hard at times. 
 The best and only way to play this game is to kill many many monsters and farm Adena (money) . The 
 problem is that I can get a more intuitive gameing experience in runescape. and that is NOT a good 
 thing : (
  
  The Graphics however are very pretty. Well, for the time the game came out :) . The Enviornments 
 are realy dull and besides the occasional waterfall, there isn't much to see there. But the character 
 models are fairly nice. Yes, the skills can be fun to learn and use, but sonsidering how fast you 
 level you wont be getting new ones any time soon. Now if you like the feel of this game I suggest 
 joining one of the private servers. They modify the game to suit your gaming preferaces (PvP, Roleplaying, 
 traditional, ect) You can find the websites giving instructions on how to get on one of these servers 
 at one of the websites listed here http://www. gamesites200. com/lineage2/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjorr04
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 6, 2006 9:15 pm PT
Review:  I have played this game for some time, and all I can say is that NCSoft makes it even more worse 
 with every chronicle it releases. On that note, however, it is still a very exceptional game. The 
 community is probably the best aspect of the game followed by gameplay and the mesmerizing graphics. 
 It's really easy to make friends, or rather, develop relationships with people that overtime you 
 can probably talk to through the rest of your days even after the game has died out.
  
  Give it a try IMO, but if not give WoW a try and if all else fails, try Guild Wars and then you 
 should definently consider just playing console games lol~. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chmykhalov
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 28, 2006 4:37 am PT
Review:  lots of things to kill or a quest to do. all ways something fun to do in the past time. lots more 
 fun when you get to gether with some friends and team up. to go kill hight lvl guys and you can 
 help guys with lower lvl lvl faster and get new skills to try out and new armore to get. then you 
 can start lvling your armore to make it even better. wich makes the game so much better to play 
 then wow. wich i thing is a not that good of a game. for the fact that it takes to long 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LastStrider
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 4, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Ok.... Lineage series, korean Online multiplayers... good game and ugh... good graphics. I think 
 what the most attactivething of this game was the name to me... in mandarin the game name is (Heaven.. 
 or Paradise) besides that.. I think the well made graphics, and the girls? Biggest problem of all 
 is that this game seems very hard, training takes too long and items are so hard to get since they 
 are so expensive. And confusing jobs/ skills and etc etc etc. Basically this is a very hard game 
 Well the graphics is definitely good, out of all the Online Multiplayer role playing things however, 
 this might lag your computer a little. And in each version there is some what of a story which 
 is quite nice... what else... hmmm THE GAME ... IS NOT FREE... thats it for now ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: net_mugger
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 22, 2006 7:10 am PT
Review:  Lineage 2 C4 is a good MMORPG because it has a good graphic, gameplay. Many soundtraks are excelent...
 
  
  You have to play a good server if it is to like it. And anyway is better than playing World of 
 Warcraft wich has a much lower graphic and the world huge. Lineage 2 is just perfect except ping 
 wich is available at any ONLINE game. So it's not just about killing and collecting items and better 
 armors... If you play it or already played it you know what I'm talking about.
  
  P. S. Try a good private server with lets say: 30x exp, high loot and C Grade Armors at shop:) You 
 like it more in this way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmriM
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 9, 2006 5:09 am PT
Review:  good game, especially when playing on a private server that costs no money and have higher ranks 
 than official servers.
  
  if you play private servers it costs no money, and you will level up much faster because the ranks 
 are higher (~5x - 5000x) .
  the reviewers really underestimated the game, it's a very good game, very addictive and worth playing.
 
  the graphics are good, much better than WoW and other MMORPG, the sound is also good. the gameplay 
 can be better.
  
  i cant wait for lineage 3, it might be much better game with even better graphics and better gameplay.
 
  
  the game is very good, you just have to play good private servers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mauredo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 3, 2006 1:44 am PT
Review:  This game is so much differente then when it was released. The gamespot review says the player 
 versus player is minimal.. errr right now the game is allmost about PvP with more than 200 people 
 invading a castle defended by other 200 ppl making the sieges something epic to look at and play 
 in. In allmost servers there constant ganking between big rivals with crazy huge battles.
  
  This is a hard game. you need a lot of effort to reach maximum level and even if you play for 
 like 1 year around 1 or 2 hours per day maybe you never reach the level 80. 
  
  The graphics are amazing and the best i ever saw in a MMORPG, well you can say Everquest2 and Guil 
 Wars look more shinny but this one has tons and tons of style, with all the elfs, dark elfs having 
 that korean style that make Anime fans blow out when they see this game.
  
  The sound is very nice, with all the major musics coming from great studios and making you remember 
 some epic battles in Lord of the Rings movies. the SFX is good also and very nice sound when you 
 do emotions in game or the soul shot sound ( soul shot, a item then you use to double your damage 
 making your weapon glow for some seconds) .
  
  Many, many game tried to copy this one but not even one can reach this one's foot.
  
  The grind 
 is very harsh for casual players, but hardcore players will find here a very big challenge.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deformer2
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 2, 2006 11:02 pm PT
Review:  After playing Lineage 2 for the past year and a half, exploring all races such as Human, Orc, Dark 
 Elf, Light Elf and Drawf, each wih their own characteristics, pros and cons, I've come to the conclusion 
 that Lineage 2 is really a great MMO. 
  
  Lineage 2 has many towers, grassland, swamps, graveyards and caves for you to explore, each with 
 their own monsters for you to slay. L2 also has a huge selection of weapons ranging from just a 
 dagger, to a heavy sword, hand melee weapons to dual "God Blades" the most powerful dual weapons 
 in the game. 
  
  If killing monsters isn't your thing and you want something harder, there is always the PvP (Player 
 vs Player) fight options where you can battle out your character against others.
  
  Graphically, it is an appealing game with fantastic modelling and textures within buildings and 
 on weapons and armour.
  
  Overall, this is one of the better MMORPGs out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NubleX
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 31, 2006 1:43 am PT
Review:  Virtually every character on the server is different, with different types and characteristics 
 and magical powers, artifacts, objects etc basically everything other MMORPGs have, it contains 
 as well. In cities like Moscow, knowing a lot of people and playing these kinds of games is magnificent 
 amount of fun, as you personally know the mates who struggle by your side. Creating a good clan 
 and winning competitions is lots of fun, as big clans contain large amounts of different troop 
 types: knights, tanks, shooters, buffers, de-buffers, thieves, smiths, wizards etc which brings 
 extreme variety to each fight either with NPCs or within clan wars. The game is flawed in some 
 ways but the gameplay is comparable to Planetside, for example. For some this may be a negative 
 stat but I believe that a big majority of MMORPGs are great fun. Unlike neck-braking speed of QuakeIII, 
 this game offers a steadier gameplay allowing time to think (in Quake you make the action automatically, 
 rocketjump without thinking, for example) . Fun with friends, simply said. Impossible to play if 
 youre a loner :) ) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RocKtheCasbaH
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 21, 2006 12:48 am PT
Review:  Plus Points: Great graphics, PvP & seiges not instanced so no queing like in WoW, minimal bugs. 
 
  
  Bad points: Heavy Grind, Poor PvP implementation with the old red and dead system, crap auction/trading 
 system, crap crafting system, little character customisation, mounts hard to get and not worth 
 it, crap/no rewards in terms of drops makes the grind all the more boring. Inundated with IGE farmers, 
 little to no worthwhile raid content - form group, enter dungeon, go in as far as level/experience 
 will allow and farm the respawns in one room for as long as you can bear it. 50% of players like 
 to buy their gold from IGE, another 40% buy from IGE just to stay competetive.
  
  Conclussion: Basically NCsoft have taken a 8-year old formula for a high-grind Korean mmorpg and 
 put glossy graphics on the top. Very frustrating game lacking in nearly all areas. Nothing original 
 here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rofrankcip
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 18, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  High Tension Battle: The graphic concept of Lineage II assumes a tremendous siege carried out by 
 dozens of characters with advanced 3D details similar to those in fighting games. Picture the castle 
 rampart standing high in the way of surging forces, plains being viewed by riding a dragon high 
 in the sky, and archers on the rampart sniping at the coming enemy. These powerful scenes will 
 be produced with the latest 3D technology.
  Character appearance and social interaction systems are supported, which reflect players' own characters 
 in the cyber world. The characters are built via high-level 2D illustration for people who are 
 not yet accustomed to a 3D game appearance.
  The right action at the right moment: Freestyle play is guaranteed through a solid physics engine. 
 Players can fly in the sky, adventure deep in the ocean while searching for an undersea town, and 
 express the joy of victory with friends.
  Lineage II applies Lineage's interface design philosophy. The simple, mouse-driven interface, which 
 helps novices learn movement and combat quickly, has been recreated for the 3D game.
  Players at low levels will enjoy hunting for rewards, but as they gain experience and reach higher 
 levels they can enjoy the complex war, politics, and economic systems. Lineage II intends to look 
 simple, but also provides complexity and depth for more seasoned players.
  Players have many classes and characters to choose from. In Lineage II, each race has its own class 
 tree, enabling players to change their character's appearance as they grow in the game. This makes 
 advancing more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Reaper
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 17, 2006 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Before I get into the review, I would like to let everyone know that i'm not some new MMORPG gamer. 
 I have played WoW, GW, L2, FFXI, L1, Star wars Galaxies, Everquest, Dark Age of C. and soon to 
 play Warhammer Online
  
  ANYWAYS about lineage compared to WoW
  The bad things:
  Okay first off lets look at the bad things about lineage 2. In World of Warcraft death isn't all 
 that big of a deal, in lineage 2... it might make you want to quit. How? Well the penalties for 
 death in L2 are dropping and losing experience. Which doesn't make you want to try new things that 
 might get you killed in L2. The economy in lineage 2 is annoying- Prices are too high and you are 
 sometimes forced to buy money off the internet. Unlike WoW- where money making is easy. Another 
 thing is, there is alot of grind in lineage 2, the grind makes your eyes bleeddddd, Unlike WoW 
 where there is Quest grind as well as grinding on monsters. Yeah.. I make it sound like lineage 
 2 sucks don't I?
  
  The goods:
  Now lets look at the good things... well, in lineage 2 There is awesome PVP and great epic music. 
 Now picture this: A giant Wyvern Dragon Circles high over the castle, as the invaders rush in a 
 siege golem ripping down the gate. Archers on the high wall snipe the intruders. The people inside 
 the castle prepare in the Hall, ready for the enemy. The lord of the castle stands still in front 
 of the throne gaurded by his men. Merceneries flood the room ready to slaughter any unwelcomed 
 guests that march through the Gate. Hundreds of players can be envolved in sieges. Unlike in WoW, 
 theres Capture the flag and.. the other one i forgot. Sure in WoW you can kill anyone any time on 
 the opposite faction, there will be 20vs20 people, Allies Vs Horde from time to time. But when 
 will you get a Huge 300 vs 300 player siege? Yeah it produces alot of lag in lineage 2, surprisingly 
 if you turn down your graphics just a bit- it runs just fine. (I guess it depends on the computer 
 your playing it on) . Another great thing about Lineage 2 are the clan wars. If two opposing clans 
 meet eachother- they can kill on site. No death penalty, no flagging. Your name remains white- 
 its a kill on site thing. But this only works if your clan is AT war with the other clan. Once 
 on the siegehardt server- which i think is the most chaotic server in lineage, every clan was taking 
 a dive to be the Top clan. Everywhere you turn there were people flagged for combat- magic buffing 
 eachtother, there were people betraying eachother, and ready to raid a town full of enemies. Right 
 now, its starting to happen again. a clan called "Inner circle" was on top- the whole server revolted 
 agianst them. Now they are an ordinary clan, and the rest of the clans once again strive to be 
 #1. You just don't get this sort of Crazy PVP in WoW. The thing about leveling.. isn't all that 
 great. Everyone hates grind. I hated grind in all the games until i played lineage 2.. the grind 
 just kept getting better each chronicle. Yeah it used to take a very long time to level.. you had 
 to grind until your eyes bleed. Now, its alot faster and grinding.. just doesn't feel like grind. 
 Lineage 2 grind has the awesome sound of Swords clashing, weapons missing the target, the sound 
 of soulshots moving through your weapon. A sharp weapon meeting heavy armor. Unlike in WoW- the 
 sound sucks... and i mean bad. You have a dagger in WoW- you miss .. and it sounds like you just 
 tried to hit someone with a giant two handed sword and missed. It produces a loud, low and heavy 
 "WOOSH". Like wtf?! How can a dagger make such a loud unneccessary noise? Lineage 2 has the best 
 sound i've ever heard- the grind "Ping" depending where, when an arrow hits. the right "Woosh" When 
 a weapon misses. in lineage 2, when you miss with a dagger it sound like a dagger missed "Whish". 
 Also the awesome graphics in lineage 2, These graphics are amazing, the waterfalls are beatiful. 
 The water is beautiful.. the extremely nice creativity it has done with Icons, monsters, weapons, 
 armor and so much more. Unlike World of warcraft, Most monsters look alike exept either they are 
 in a different color or size. like come on... i start off seeing pink raptors in crossroads in 
 WoW, i take a ship to Stranglethorn vale and what do i see? Larger... higher level.. RED raptors. 
 I look at my weapon, its a small red dagger, i buy a sword.. same icon- looks nothing like the sword. 
 I equip the sword, and it looks like my dagger exept twice the size. GET MORE CREATIVE WORLD OF 
 WARCRAFT! Sound and creativity in WoW just plane sucks... its nothing compared to lineage 2. An 
 awesome feature about this game are the dragons and pets. Yes in WoW, you get mounts at 40, hunters 
 and warlocs (and i think another class i don't remember) get pets. In lineage 2, you get to raise 
 a dragon, it starts out as an egg. After a while it turns into a hatchling, a baby dragon. Cute.. but 
 deadly.. well kinda deadly. Later on, it becomes a strider. You get to ride a strider like a horse. 
 The dragon now lost its cuteness, it turns into a cold blooded monsterous Killing Machine. If you 
 love the strider .. you'll love the Wyvern, a dragon you can ride high up in the sky. Unlike WoW, 
 you.. can't fly a wyvern. The only way you fly in WoW is getting a ride from town to town on .. 
 bats.. lion bat things (In WoW they call those Wyverns) and eagles. You can't controll them but 
 whatever. Mounts on the other hand.. everyone can get mounts, you don't have to level a dragon up 
 to a Strider. In lineage 2, everyone can get pets. go get the quest, and the quest will reward 
 you with a pet. I've played WoW for 3 months.. and i got a few chars up to 60. I have a rogue, warloc 
 and a Warrior. I personally... don't like it. it was great at first- the quest grind got more repetative 
 than regular grind. I've been playing lineage 2 since beta and i'm still not bored- some may call 
 it obsessive.. but i call it "too much fun". Sorry for all my spelling mistakes, its 2:30 am, i 
 think i've missed a few things but oh well. I think that Chronicle 4 was worth waiting for- surprisingly 
 so many players are joining and coming back that yesterday.. all our servers were acually full. 
 I for one and very surprised.
  I hope you consider getting lineage 2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: daywireless
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jun 1, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  The game Lineage 2 is (obviously) an MMORPG. With so many on the market these days, how can it 
 compete? Pretty poorly if you ask me. Maybe if you let everything suck you into it, it will start 
 looking better and better, but I would NEVER let this have the chance to suck away my money month 
 after month. If you absolutely need a good MMO, try playing something good like World of Warcraft 
 or Guild Wars.
  To give something positive to it, it has pretty good graphics and with its stupidly long leveling 
 up time, you will be playing (unless your figure out how bad it is) for quite some time. When you 
 pick up the box for this game DO NOT be fooled by the cool pictures on it. Most pictures depict 
 such things and riding a dragon. To ever even get close to this, you will have to play for a VERY 
 long time. Not worth it what-so-ever. Your wasting your time, and even more importantly your money!!! 
 One of my friends is stupid enough to keep paying money for this game month after month. Hes payed 
 almost $200 now, and he still hasn't got any dragons or monsters or anything to ride or do anything 
 actually fun.
  But I must admit it is put together quite well, just to bad what they put together wasn't fun.
 
  If you need an MMO try buying Guild Wars or playing (even though it isn't to good) Runescape. 
 Runescape may not be to good at all, but its still way better than paying money for this crap. 
 
  The point here is that its a semi-poor game, and theres SO much WAY better stuff out there. So 
 if you get that idiotic feeling to pay $15 a month for a game, try getting something good.
  This game isn't fun, takes to long to do anything, very poor compared to others, but has pretty 
 good graphics. Doesn't sound to worth it to me at all.
  
  Don't waste your time and money waiting for something actually good to happen, buy a game worth 
 playing and spending money on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haikiller12
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 19, 2006 9:39 pm PT
Review:  High Tension Battle: The graphic concept of Lineage II assumes a tremendous siege carried out by 
 dozens of characters with advanced 3D details similar to those in fighting games. Picture the castle 
 rampart standing high in the way of surging forces, plains being viewed by riding a dragon high 
 in the sky, and archers on the rampart sniping at the coming enemy. These powerful scenes will 
 be produced with the latest 3D technology.
  Character appearance and social interaction systems are supported, which reflect players' own characters 
 in the cyber world. The characters are built via high-level 2D illustration for people who are 
 not yet accustomed to a 3D game appearance.
  The right action at the right moment: Freestyle play is guaranteed through a solid physics engine. 
 Players can fly in the sky, adventure deep in the ocean while searching for an undersea town, and 
 express the joy of victory with friends.
  Lineage II applies Lineage's interface design philosophy. The simple, mouse-driven interface, which 
 helps novices learn movement and combat quickly, has been recreated for the 3D game.
  Players at low levels will enjoy hunting for rewards, but as they gain experience and reach higher 
 levels they can enjoy the complex war, politics, and economic systems. Lineage II intends to look 
 simple, but also provides complexity and depth for more seasoned players.
  Players have many classes and characters to choose from. In Lineage II, each race has its own class 
 tree, enabling players to change their character's appearance as they grow in the game. This makes 
 advancing more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VoltureX
Rating: 10
Date: May 8, 2006 6:01 am PT
Review:  I must say that Lineage 2 is the best multi RPG ever made. It's so damn realistic and has all the 
 elements a RPG game should have. You can siege castles, kill raid bosses, make clans/alliances, events, 
 level your character (s) and buy the most mind blowing equipment I have ever seen like swords, armor 
 and you can even have pets like wolves, unicorns, dragons, lions and the list goes on.
  
  HAVE TO WRITE THIS IN CAPS... THIS GAME IS JUST SO MUCH BETTER THAT world of warcraft WITH NO DOUBT!
 
  
  I really wonder why www. gamespot. com gave this game not even a 9'er.
  
  There is a good future in this game. When writing we are plying the 4th chronicle but as far as 
 I know they will write up to 12 chronicles. AND YOUR CHARACTER (S) WITH EQUIPMENT WILL BE GOING 
 ON TO THE OTHER CHRONICLES ;) Chronicles are like expansions to the game which you can download 
 for free at the official website www. lineage2. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLaZE1818
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 7, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  This game has definately set my lvl for when i want to choose an mmorpg. I am still playing this 
 game as we speak actually. And to be honest i havent found an mmorpg that suits me better. Yes 
 its a grinder. But yes the pvp is fun and exciting. With controlling castles, and a really good 
 player market . This game has the beginings to be a very great mmorpg. I would recommend anyone 
 to try it out as it is a great way to set the line on what type of MMO u want. 
  
  In the end just wait for lineage 3 it will in my eyes knock off all mmo's to the bottom of the 
 list. That is if they make the game right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aresland
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 27, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  Lineage 2 : Chaotic Chronicles. A game set in a past mystikal world,
  with hundreds of differant opponents, and everyone else are opponents
  also. With numerous classes, 
 and sub-classes you can't get bored of the 
  vast diversity of the game.
  
  Really this game is all about expierence, if you don't got it... move on.
  You need to be a highly 
 active gamer, about that you have to know how to grind every possilbe way. This is one of the best 
 well-known MMO's
  out on the market, for skilled players that don't want to go talk about how
  they killed a little 
 orc and say "Aye, Meh did that teday". 
  
  The game enviroment is spectacular, the vast cities show great effort,
  the graphics around the 
 game are all about detail. Everything has extreme
  detail. So for all the junkies that need to look good when killing eachother.
  This is the game 
 for you.
  
  All in all, Lineage 2 : The Chaotic Chronicles, is for expierenced players,
  that know how to game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raiser
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 27, 2006 4:44 am PT
Review:  Lineage II: the chaotic chronicle. A game that tried to innovate and got overlooked just because 
 of the time it takes to get anywhere in it.
  
  Where to start? the game's background is amazing and epic; it has a mythology rivaling those of 
 greek epics, has the best performance graphics right now on a medium budget PC, has enough customization 
 and character design to drive you nuts and drool all over, and yet it is universally shunned as 
 a mediocre MMO. 
  
  What went wrong? It is from a Korean company, designed to last over 12 free of charge expansions 
 or chapters, dubbed Chronicles. The arching story line that is influenced by the player's actions 
 is recorded in the official site, but apparently nobody ever bothers to look there. Accusations 
 of misleading advertisement plague the game's reputation. A seemingly never ending problem of ebayers 
 and botters still hamper reviews. No game magazine would bother to go back and review the game 
 after 4 chapters in the game history.
  
  The so called cons: A long time to reach top level. By design, the game is very elitistic; only 
 those of high level and enough financial power are able to tackle the castles and chapter bosses. 
 the outcry? Jhony moronic who just got into the game last month is whining he can't compete with 
 Jack Uber who has been playing since open beta. GO FIGURE; little noob wants to be able to reach 
 top level within his first month of playing. a Decent player can reach level 75 (now it's 78 after 
 the last chronicle: Scions of destiny) in 6-8 months from scratch. That means you have to play 
 a com, plete chronicle and a bit of the next before you can claim you saw everything. As a personal 
 cooment; I think it's a right choice to have a marked difference between a player that's been leveling 
 before and the newcomers... wich takes us into:
  
  PKing/Ganking/Scamming new players: The game features an open PvP system, where anybody can hunt 
 and kill you anytime ANYWHERE; and a karma system to punish PKers for that. A player that attacks 
 another triggers a "purple" state, in wich he is flagged for PvP. The receiving end can choose 
 not to strike back if he doesn't want to, and if he gets killed the attacker will become "Red" 
 or chaotic. The killer's name will turn Red, wich marks him for PvP permanently with a steep penalty: 
 A red player will drop anywhere from 1 to 5 items that are in his inventory or equipped. There 
 are those who would abuse the system of course, but that is also part of the game; wich leads us 
 into:
  
  DROPPING OF EQUIPMENT: while hunting in the field, everytime you die and are above level 5, you 
 have a SMALL chance of dropping anything from your inventory. the percentage is greater if you 
 die to a monster than if you die to a player; but it has been confirmed that you CANNOT drop your 
 weapon if you have less than 5 PK counts. This some of us see as an advantage; since you are "forced" 
 not to bite more than you can chew. Dropping is determined by an unseen ammount of "luck" your 
 character is given upon creation. Chaotic players have this % sky rocketed to reflect their "evil" 
 intent. that leads us unto:
  
  ADENA RUSH: Money is seemingly never enough to buy anything on this game... at first glance, you 
 can't buy anything that is sold at stores. Latest chronicles have addressed this with bette rmonetary 
 rewards for nnewbie quests; but still. the problem here lies with a misconception. Apparently everyone 
 thinks that just because you can equip some armor at a given level, you should be able to buy the 
 best equipment just as you reach the level you are able to equip it. Let me elaborate.
  
  Lineage II has no class restrictions on the equipment you can use; you can have a mage wear heavy 
 armor and a long bow for example, the onyl restrictions are "Grade" proficiencies. No Grade equipment 
 can be used by anyone in the game regardless of their class or level, then, as you level you'll 
 "learn" to use better, more sturdy items. Come grades: D grade at level 20, Grade C at level 40, 
 Grade B at 60, A at 70, and S at 75.
  
  Most people complain that you cannot buy the top weapon/armor for any given grade as you hit the 
 appropiate level to use it, wich is only partially true. You SHOULDN'T even tough YOU CAN if you 
 are savvy enough and have found out how the game works. wich takes us to:
  
  PEOPLE THAT PLAY THE MARKET: you can set up a player Store anywhere, anytime on the map. Selling 
 to the NPC store will give you some money yes, but not as enough as if you decide to pay attention 
 to the market and sell accordingly to other players. There are also the repeatable money quests; 
 wich if done one time won't net you a whole lot of money, done over time can be very profittable. 
 During Chronicle 2 a manor system was introduced where you can exchange money for "seeds" you can 
 plant in monsters, and get a "crop" of materials to sell to each castle. The system was refined, 
 revised and added unto during Chronicle 3. Thos epeople not making money in game are either spending 
 it where they shouldn't (happened to me, as I bought one of each anything during my newbie days, 
 and suffered after) or just aren't doing any quests and expect to get tons of money overnight.
 
  
  Another general complain is that there aren't enough quests; that quests are boring and meaningless. 
 that they aren't rewarding enough. that they are too tough. I have mixed feelings on this.
  
  True: Quests are few and far between IF YOU DONT ACTIVELY LOOK FOR THEM. Wich means: NPCs won't 
 go out of their way to spoon feed you quests. If you don't ever bother to actually talk to NPC's 
 your game is going to be very boring indeed. Most NPC's also stop giving you their quests if you 
 are 6 or more levels above the maximum level to complete them. So if you missed them the first 
 time, you missed them forever. Quests also give random and sometimes ridiculous rewards... If you 
 are expenting newbie quests to give you dragon slayer swords everytime under level 20. And Yes, 
 they are indeed sometimes too long to complete, and boring. But they do give you insight on the 
 mythos of the game; and some have amazing backstories to give them purpose.
  
  And last: Content. What everyone seems to overlook is that content is brought by players. the game 
 is just the canvas in wich we paint whatever we desire. There are people raising pets, sieging 
 castles, forging alliances, betraying allies... you name it. this game is what you make of it... 
 and that apparently is very difficult for some people to grasp. The game was produced by an asian 
 company, with asian audience in mind. I find it very similar in concept to table top D&D: you are 
 given rules and a system, then you decide what to do with the system. If for you it's a never ending 
 grind fest; then it is; if for you is a, ever changing world of conspiracy and politics, crafted 
 upon a beautiful myth with a very intense game of politics and epic battles, then it is.
  
  *ending note* Character customization has been critisized hard on this game... Since you only get 
 a handful of character portraits and you cannot modify the height or weight of your character either... 
 seeing the enormous detail on character armors (wich will change depending on class and race, and 
 even sex) It's difficult to criticize them for being lazy. Maybe I'm justifying them, but to me 
 it is more of an acquired taste: since you are supposed to be just a soldier in an army, fitting 
 a role, it would be understandable that all soldiers are issued the same type of armor into battle... 
 sides you can always NOT USE THE SAME GODDAMN HAIR COLOR FOR YOUR CHARACTER. Pisses me off to have 
 that as an argument, but everyone sticks with default face, hair type and color, and then complain 
 everyone is a clone.
  
  Graphics: 9/10 (Beautiful design, C3 introduced specular glow and compatibility with Direct X 9)
 
  sound: 9/10 (Music was scored by the same guy who did C&C Generals and LotR)
  Story : 10/10 (go read the mythology in the official page dammit!)
  replayability: 5/10 (you 
 can't really go back and start again that easily, fact)
  Control 7/10 (collision detection is weird at best, maneurability on franctic battles is ok at 
 most, but controls are responsive enough)
  
  Overall: 8.5/10 Some interface issueslike the inability to resize fonts; customize graphics (wich 
 isn't a drawback for me, but could be to others) , inability to rebind keys, weird chat interface 
 lower the score. Also for some reason they removed some of the music for C2; Long time to reach 
 the top can turn off new players. On the brighter side of things, every step you take to the top 
 is meaningful, lots of end game content for clans and alliances, sweetest graphics for current 
 PCs (try running this on high resolution with AA 2x with all reflections on) Intense PvP structure, 
 even if currently is completely botched (prelude and up to C2 PvP among all classes was almost 
 balanced; currently mages dominate the field)
  
  Keep in mind that the game is not "finished" per se... we are just into chronicle 4 of 12. See 
 you next year with hopefully an update on Chronicle 6!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulbreakerx
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2006 10:28 pm PT
Review:  I wonder why this game only get 6.0. I would give this game far more better than World of Warcraft, 
 below are some of my reasons:
  
  The characters: every single character inside Lineage are detailed, not like WoW where you can 
 see the images are not clear so much.
  
  Armors and equipments: Stuffs in Lineage 2 are also detailed, especially the armor parts. Why? 
 just think when you wearing armor like example Plate Armor, does it looks like a simple cloth to 
 you especially at the chest area where it is just too thin even the name is "Plate" while armors 
 in Lineage 2 have bumps showing that it look like the real armor, not cloth ( for plates) . And 
 armors in Lineage 2 has different look for each different name. Not like WoW where an epic armor 
 look exactly like a normal armor only with different name and color.
  
  Gameplay: What I like the most is the Castle Management and Farms, WoW does not have that at all. 
 Castle Siege, WoW does not have it too. Dungeon with 14 Level is either not also inside WoW and 
 much much more! Marriage? WoW also does not have that feature.
  
  All I can say is this game is almost perfect! It should deserve more than 6.0. It Should get 10.0! 
 WoW is only popular thanks to their RTS games before WoW launch, if NC Soft do that to, I'm sure 
 Lineage will be far more popular. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ariesk
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 9, 2006 9:12 am PT
Review:  To start off, I playing nothing but RPG's, and MMORPG's
  I've spent most of the 16 years of my life starting out with the basics, Myst
  then moving to 
 Everquest, FF, Guild Wars, then WoW. I loved WoW but I decided to give Lineage 2 a try. After playing 
 this game I think WoW and FF are uber n00blet RPG's. Lineage 2 has so much to offer and so much 
 value for this game. 
  
  If you think about it. Lineage 2 is either a tough challenge or a repeted boring game. It depends 
 on how you look at this game. The combat is somewhat bland but for some reason there is something 
 about this game that kept me playing hundreds of hours a month. It was the fact that I could always 
 get better. There was never an ending to this game. There was always someone who had better equipment, 
 better levels than I, and I always wanted to get better. This game reminds me of a story, movie 
 that you cannot leave the room, you need to find the ending. There is always something more you 
 can do. There are several races in this game
  including Orcs, Dwarves, Elves, Dark Elves, and of course, Humans.
  There are two classes to 
 choose from in the begining, a Fighter or a Mage.
  Dwarves cannot be a Mage. From there if your a fighter when you're level 20 there are two to three 
 more classes to choose from, then another class transfer at level 40. Giving a lot of opportunities 
 for your character. Dwarves are limited to making items and finding items, Scavenger and Artisan, 
 But Dwarves also are the money makers and almost everyone in this game has a backup Dwarf for money 
 making reasons.
  
  Gamplay: The fighting styles are bland in PvM and this game dosn't have that much to offer to lower 
 level players, but as you rank up in levels and experience you'll find this game is amazing and 
 you cannot let go of it. PvP is amazing and one of the better qualities of this game. There is 
 always GM's on this game willing to help you with any questions you might have. They have never 
 failed me, and boy I've had some tough questions. As you sustain on throughout this game you'll 
 probably join a clan, party with your clan and find out the real meaning of this game, 10 players 
 vs. 1 gigantic mob. The game totally switches around from when you start. If you can make it past 
 the first free trail of this game, You will not be dissapointed, that I promise. When you frist 
 start off you might get Pk'd
  (Player Killed) by players who are having a blast making you pissed off.
  but you must understand 
 when you're that high of a level, that's all you're going to be doing anywas. This game has so 
 much to offer if you can just give it a try. Castle sieges come later as you advanced through the 
 game and this is by far my favourite thing in any game, Ever. However if you have a slow internet 
 connection you might experience lag and anger. This game is then not for you if your computer is 
 not, (advanced) / or with a slow connection.
  
  Graphics: With constant server updates, new patches and the latest technology, the graphcis actualy 
 arn't bad and they keep getting better as the years continue. When the game first started out they 
 were somewhat bland but now I compare them to the best graphically associated game out to date. 
 I've spent hours just looking at the oceans in this game. The new updates giving twice a week keep 
 this game in tip top shape and you will not be dissapoitned.
  
  Sound: Not too much to say, the hits with your Warhammer and Sword are crisp, solid swifting motions. 
 Your arrows sticking inside of you give me a little tingle as i hear the bones crack, and armour 
 pierce.
  
  Value: This is by far the best value i've ever spent on a video game.
  The 14 dollars a month, or 60 dollars U. S. a year are worth ever penny.
  You can buy this game 
 now for under 20 dollars at E. B. and any mall. It also comes with a 1 month free trial but it's 
 only to get the basics down and if you're a MMORPG fan you'll spend most of your time playing this 
 and making sever characters. Currently I have a level 54 Paladin, a Lvl 23 Dwarf. a Lvl 35 Palus 
 Knight, and a Lvl 10 Orc Fighter. The highest lvl you can reach currently is 75. but I've heard 
 the rumours for Chronicle Four will be up'd to lvl 80 as the maximum. This is my favourite game 
 ever made, even though I'm not giving it a 10/10 In my heart it's 11/10. If you love MMO's I highly 
 suggest to give this game a try and test it out. Most of the people whom play this game are friendly 
 but a selected few are PK'ers. Every now a then you'll get some equipment/adena *money* help from 
 higher level characters. This game deffinately grows on you like a mold.
  
  Overall, This game is one of a kind, it's somewhat related to the RPG's you've played but it's 
 got a whole different soul. A true masterpeice
  Encore to Ncsoft and I hope all of you reading this will give this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nt-Jerk
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 21, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  I really think that this game is really great, and has real potential to get even greater.. It 
 is true, that it may get boring in the long run, but when joining others and fighting together, 
 this is real great entertainment. Many games are better, but this is game does not need many resources 
 to be played, as many other games do. And the game continuously gets even better, as the new chronicles 
 are released. I'm now playing on a mix of the second and third, and I'm looking forward to be using 
 the new events in the fourth Chronicle. I hope that many new players will join me in my quest, 
 to make this game a real good experience for everyone who plays it.
  
  Nt-Jerk 
  
  OUT// 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jd1680a
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 5, 2006 6:56 am PT
Review:  So far Ive played lineage 2 for a month. This not a really great mmorpg for some folks. you will 
 either love it or hate it. if you are looking for a challanging game, with open pvp adventure then 
 this is your game. for those who tend to lean toward a more solo and player friendly environment 
 its might not be for you/.
  
  from what ive seen in this game is it leans too much for group lovers. all the best money and experience 
 comes from grouping. soloing isnt worth the effort, grind is really bad and making game money isnt 
 at all easy. 
  
  the game economy is totally screwed up. everything is so expensive, it is impossible for a solo 
 person to play this game. due to the lack of any kind of UI window that would help buyers compare 
 prices for items, prices are outrageously prices beyond any reasonable means of getting. you will 
 have to join a very good helpful clan if you want to do well.
  
  for people who like to solo, or have a life style that forces them to solo most of their time (like 
 me) , this is not a game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metallix666
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 26, 2006 4:55 am PT
Review:  Well ok, the game is good. But 1 thing that i did not like, was that there was NO ending. i mean, you 
 level up to the highest level, and what do you do? Some people say "there are quest" and if u finish 
 the quests? i like a game with a proper ending, with a movie or something like that.. But besides 
 that the game is great, i like the pet system, private shop, item making, spoiling, good graphics, the 
 world, monsters, castle's siege's, professions, music, skill's, magic.
  I like'd that there were a few races, not old boring RPG's with like only elf's and stuff and so 
 on ;DD
  hope you enjoy it, my advice - buy it!; D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wise1819
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 18, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  EverQuest 2 is the most overrated MMO on the market today and SWG is well... all I can say is save 
 your money.
  
  I really feel that most people that have reviewed Lineage 2 must have only played for 20mins, quit, 
 write a review. I have played a lot of MMOs and Lineage 2 is a fantastic game... trust me. 
  
  The graphics (when I first loaded this game i was stunned by the graphics) and gameplay are 
 to die for. And if you have a ghetto comp with poor hardware. This game will still look and run 
 well. I think it looks a ton better than EQ2 or WoW. 
  
  Yes, you need to work hard to get anywhere in his game but I feel thats a plus. Its more rewarding 
 then any other MMO I have played. You do grind but that comes with any MMO. 
  
  My advice... get a copy of Lineage 2 and give it a try for a few weeks before throwing in the towel. 
 You will thank me later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabi098
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 15, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  I'v been playing this game over 1 year now and i'v played it on both high and low rate servers 
 and i'm telling u its great!!!
  
  The game offers quite a big range of races (humans, elf's, dark elf's, dwarf's, orc's) . and each 
 with main paths (fighter, mystic) and more specific paths as u go throw the game.
  
  Each race has a wide range of occupations, each one has its own advantages and disadvantages!!!
 
  
  Its repetitive because you have to train allot to gain levels but is definitely not boring because 
 as you grow levels you learn new skill, new occupations (2 occupations for each character) and 
 ofcorse new monsters and boss-monsters. Also for each range of levels there are several areas were 
 u can train and ofcorse a HUGE map.
  
  And when u get bored of training u can always go pvp with other players!!
  
  All in all a great 
 game and I don't find it boring at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedo
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 27, 2006 5:57 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY
  
  MMORPG (Massive Multi-player On-line Role-Playing Game) has become a very exact formula, and game 
 developers haven't wanted to change much not to loose this addictive formula. The setting for a 
 MMORPG is u usually a mystical medieval world. The player chooses a character out of several races 
 and follows a path to become either an archer, a mage or a melee fighter. The battle is managed 
 by the basic RPG system. That means you start out weak, poorly armed and armored; you fight different 
 creatures (many of whom meant you no harm) and complete quests given to you by the NPCs (computer-controlled 
 characters) . Fighting is done by click-and-forget action, which involves clicking on the enemy 
 and then watching your character engage in battle. With every enemy dead (and some quests completed) , 
 you earn experience points, which make you stronger in certain characteristics. That, in turn, 
 enables you to fight stronger enemies that will give you more experience upon their death etc, 
 etc, etc. To help you in each fight and decrease the time you need to spend on leveling, potions 
 and other magical items are used that temporarily increase the character's attributes. 
  
  Thats almost exactly the formula that Lineage 2 uses. First, you choose your character out of 
 several races and 2 classes: mage and fighter (a ranger is part of a fighter class, don't worry, 
 archers) . After choosing your character, youre thrown into the virtual world, and following an 
 optional brief tutorial, youre on your own. The majority of the time in L2 you will spend fighting, 
 methodically cleaning different territories of all kinds of creatures. After each sweep you will 
 have to rest to restore your life (which is done by simply sitting down or using different health 
 potions) , while the monsters take time to respawn. After that it starts all over again. Creatures, 
 besides providing you with experience points, also often drop money (gold coins referred to in 
 the world of Lineage as Adena) and/or items. Animals dropping gold coins sounds wrong, doesnt 
 it? It certainly isnt surprising. Many RPGs seem to have some influential noble beasts living 
 within their animal kingdom. These creatures will be your main source of money and items.
  
  Apart from the simple monster slashing, there are quests to complete in L2, but there arent 
 many of them and they usually consist of the same simple slashing, only then you have to kill a 
 certain amount of specific creatures to gain certain items from them. The quest-part of the game, 
 therefore, leaves much to be desired. At two important points in the player's career as warrior, 
 he will have to choose between sub-classes that will trully define his style. He will then take 
 a long path to complete a set of quests to reach the title of the subclass... consequently travel 
 to some remote location and slay a few monsters for their items.
  
  Whats a warrior without his tools? The weapons in L2 vary quite a bit and must be chosen wisely, 
 in accordance with the characters class. The same is true for the armor. Weapons can be bought 
 in shops or crafted in a smith. Some weapons can be made to be carried in both hands. This, actually, 
 has to be crafted in a smith (well, its great art to make an identical sword suitable for carrying 
 in your other hand) . Armor varies quite a bit, even more so because armor with the same name looks 
 differently on each race to suit its style. Lineage 2 introduces a system of sets, where certain 
 combinations of armor result in special bonuses for the player. Aside from the endless array of 
 weapons and armor, there are tons of items, most of which are gained from dead enemies. Many of 
 these are sub-parts that can be used to construct other parts that, sequentially, can be used to 
 construct the final product. Since some high-level items are not available in the shops, the hunt 
 for rare items is ruthless in the later stages of the game, and it also makes much of the L2's 
 economy. 
  
  At that stage, high-level dwarfs (one of the playable races) become extremely popular among players, 
 as they are the only ones who are capable of crafting the rare items. In a similar way, each of 
 the other races and its classes has their own advantages. It's true to such an extent that, in 
 fact, it also makes a part of L2's economy, as players buy or trade "buffs" (temporary empowering 
 spells) from each other. More importantly, this diversity promotes teamwork. In such a hostile 
 environment like the world of Lineage loneliness is very bad for health. The special abilities 
 that each class has means that teamwork really pays off. Fortunately, there is no shortage of players 
 in L2, and communication is well developed thanks to the chat system. If you find someone you want 
 to stay in contact with, you can add him as friend, and youll be able to talk to him from anywhere 
 on the map, as well as be informed when he joins the server. Furthermore, at some point, after 
 the player has familiarized himself with the basics and reached a certain level, it might be a 
 good idea to join a clan. Being in a clan earns the player a few privileges. Apart from the few 
 obvious advantages, like the sheer strength of a group and the previously mentioned individual 
 uniqueness, the clan members can also use the clan vault and benefit from a clan chatting system. 
 Several clans can also be organized into an alliance. 
  
  Lineage 2 is really one gigantic interactive chat room, the ultimate meeting place if you like. 
 In this world of good and strong runaway models, at least for the time of playing, great friendships 
 are born. Nothing can kill the joy that one might feel when he arrives in time to help his clan 
 members to turn the tide of battle, and everyone starts cheering him for that, and he drowns in 
 their gratitude and imagined smiles. Many laughs from many adventures will stay in his memory for 
 decades to come. Not all of these memories will be positive, though. It all got so extreme that, 
 at some point, there has been a case of one of the moderators girlfriends leaving for one of the 
 players (I can't confirm this rumor) . There are even gestures that players can make to other players. 
 Such is the social nature of Lineage 2.
  
  Although the L2 world is packed with creatures to kill, the heart of the game is still person-to-person 
 combat. That's why the players spend days on a diet of coffee, leveling. While on the open fields, 
 prepare to be attacked by a casual passerby for seemingly no particular reason. When the character 
 dies, he looses experience points and, just like monsters, has a chance of loosing an item from 
 his inventory. However, there are "arenas" where players can challenge each other without the risk 
 of loosing any points or items. There is of course some security in the open field confrontations 
 as well. Players who kill other players outside the arena get their name colored red. Red players 
 are not popular among the groups of the training folk, as you might've already assumed.
  
  One of the many benefits of being in a clan is a possibility to become a co-owner of a castle. 
 Castles is an element that the L2 developers threw into the game to exploit the power hungry nature 
 of humans. These castles are first owned by NPCs, and once a clan thinks it's strong enough to 
 defeat the castle guards, it can attempt to siege a castle. The siege commences in stages. It involves 
 breaking down doors and capturing a relic inside the castle. The players can also sign in to defend 
 the castle from the aggressors. The castle gives its owners several privileges, the most important 
 of which is, probably, the right to dictate taxes in town shops of the nearby town. The clan that 
 owns the castle won't be rejoicing for long, as other clans will come to grab the power soon enough.
 
  
  Near every castle is a town. These towns are meeting places for traders, fighters and simply social 
 creatures. Here is the armor and the weapon shop as well as several guilds. Guilds are the forward 
 bases of different races. In these guilds players can purchase new powers as well as receive important 
 quests. The city is also an important safe zone because here the players cant attack other players, 
 and the place is free from monsters (if you don't count the occasional bunch of skeletons being 
 brought in by the screaming for help players, who had overestimated their character's strength) .
 
  
  Aside from towns, there are plenty of other environments. The map of Lineage is friggin huge! It's 
 hard to find words that would describe it better. You will spend hours doing some quests, not because 
 there's a lot to do, but because it takes so long to get to the mission objective and back. There 
 are gatekeepers. These mages, who stand in each town, will teleport you to one of the closest located 
 gatekeepers. However, for quite a long time the gatekeepers will be way beyond your means, so you 
 will be walking. I'm not sure whether this was done to justify the space used, so thoughts like 
 "Ooo I haven't been here yet" rise regularly in the player's mind, or for some other reason, but 
 after a while thoughts like "Oh I've been here before a thousand times and I'm sick of it" appear 
 more regularly in the player's mind. There is a possibility to put the character on automatic and 
 let him run forward, but you don't want to do that unless you know for a fact that youre passing 
 through a non-threatening environment. Even then an occasional weak enemy can still kill you after 
 biting your behind for 10 minutes, all because your character got stuck on a rock. One of the games 
 expansions saw the coming of personal dragons. The character could raise them to the point where 
 he could ride on their backs. Thats especially useful when they start flying. Alas, the way to 
 acquiring such a beast is long and expensive.
  
  If you come across a new story-involved structure prepare to be stunned. Not only the land itself, 
 but the structures on that land are huge. In combination with great detail, the magnitude makes 
 these structures look magnificent. In the end, it's up to the player to really decide whether the 
 size really matters and whether it's used correctly.
  
  A little on the controllable beasts. The electronic pet has become quite a craze among the people 
 of all ages on this planet. For these people Lineage 2 has an interesting feature: a pet-system. 
 Unicorns, wolfs and even dragons are available for sale. They have to be fed and can be raised 
 to be formidable fighters, although players did complain about the regularity with which they die.
 
  
  VALUE
  
  Lineage 2 does not stand in place. For that monthly fee you pay, you get a game that expands regularly. 
 New items, sounds, movements and even cities are born with time. And as long as there are players 
 playing the game, the replay value is endless. The totally addictive nature of a MMORPG will ensure 
 that those who get a taste of the game will have a very hard time leaving. Teenagers play day and 
 night, leveling to prepare for the next siege, forget to prepare for the school test next morning. 
 Nevertheless, even though Lineage 2 actually takes a smaller fee than some other MMORPGs, it takes 
 a very large fee if you compare it to its value and value of games of other genres. $50-$60 is 
 a lot of cash to pay for a game like Half Life 2, but its gameplay, and specifically its multiplayer, 
 mostly covers the costs for a normal Western consumer. However, if you add up the monthly fees 
 of a game like L2, and then weigh it against its gameplay, a "normal" Western citizen's eyes will 
 roll back in his scull.
  
  About the bugs, well, they are always there, and I'm not talking about the games giant ants. The 
 character, at rare occasions, falls through the map. Although he's then unable to attack the enemies 
 (you can't even see the enemies from where he fell) , they are able to attack him. Quitting the 
 game and then returning might fix the problem, but your character will be dead by then. Getting 
 stuck on stuff can be bad for your health in equal manner, as explained earlier. No game is perfect, 
 but the problem is that when you die at higher levels, you loose points that are much harder to 
 earn back. Therefore, the significance of these bugs increases a whole lot with time. 
  
  What also scares many players away from Lineage 2 is the lack of evidently original things. Its 
 nothing they havent seen before, and what they will be doing for a very long time is push a key-bind 
 to take some potion, point and click at an enemy and then watch as the character slashes away at 
 the enemy with the same two moves over and over again. The enemy AI slashes back with the same 
 one move over and over again. As the characters in the game struggle to kill each other through 
 a mathematical comparison of their attributes, the player struggles not to fall a sleep. After 
 all he has another 654 same monsters to go before he reaches the next level. After that he will 
 move one field to the left in order to fight monsters that are one or two level higher than the 
 ones he fought before. All this effort is, practically, to stay ahead of your human adversaries, 
 so you can stand a chance against them in another clan war. 
  
  The previously described process might be too boring to some and yet not boring to others. To many 
 the addictive formula still works. The hair on their back still rises in joy every time their enemy 
 drops a very rare and valuable item. Person-VS-person (from here on referred to as PvP) battles 
 can also be fairly interesting, even though you have seen it all before. There is, however, a grave 
 problem with the balance in the PvP system in L2. The archers and mages rule the kingdom while 
 fighters are left the crumbs. Archers, in fact, are a menace for the mages as much as for the fighters. 
 Archers also seem to level a lot faster than any other class and that only increases their advantage 
 over the other two groups. 
  
  Then there are other annoying moments, which are a noticeable in any MMORPG. Some new players who 
 have friends among the powerful players level much faster than the rest. Those who are prepared 
 to spend their real-life currency can buy accounts or simply large sums of adena. Theres also 
 a lot of the so-called botting, which means running scripts or using triggers to perform any 
 action while you are not in control of the character. Then there are people who are always ready 
 to spoil your fun. You will be fighting, and the fight will bring you within the inch of your life, 
 but the usage of a special attack buys you the satisfactory victory. Suddenly, another player sneaks 
 up on you and finishes you off. Why? Because he can; or maybe because he likes to hear that question; 
 or maybe he was denied a toy for Christmas... Then there are players who are too weak to attack 
 you themselves but have the ability to fake death, so they make sure a powerful beast is after 
 them, then they run towards you and fake death, and you inherit their unfriendly problem. This 
 last issue usually occurs when there are more players than monsters, and the competition for each 
 one of them gets tough. That competition also often results in PvP fights when two players argue 
 over the right to slay some beast.
  
  VISUALS
  
  For quite a long time Lineage 2 was the most beautiful MMORPG on the market. It might not have 
 reached the levels of high-budget first person shooters, but it sure could hold its own against 
 other MMORPG titles like World of Warcraft. Of course it could all be better and one might dislike 
 the lack of texture in the game. Although every armor piece looks different, a lot of its difference 
 is simply in the drawing that's been placed over the model. A bow that looks heavy from one side, 
 turns out to be, in fact, flatter than a piece of paper when you look at it from the other side. 
 And yet much of L2 still comes across very pretty. Faces, although not very varied within each 
 race, do look relatively detailed. There's a dynamic day and night change with a sky full of smooth 
 warm colors. Things like smoke and fire all appear to be quite detailed and alive. 
  
  Environments are incredibly diverse. There are pretty green hills, where the pretty pixies fly 
 free; there are dark misty swamps of the Dark Elven territory with the monster trees; there are 
 deep dried out valleys, and there are gigantic ant houses... The game just keeps surprising. The 
 architecture detail is given a lot of attention. The massive and detailed cathedrals, with the 
 sunlight passing through its windows, look overwhelming. In the end, Lineage 2 succeeds in creating 
 an atmosphere, even though it cuts the corners here and there.
  
  SOUND
  
  The music is the most remarkable thing about the sound in Lineage 2. It perfectly suits the different 
 places youll encounter in-game. If you're into symphonic music of any kind, it is likely that 
 you will want to seek out the composer who created the music for L2 (Bill Brown is the name to 
 save you some trouble) .
  
  The rest of the sound in L2, unfortunately, is not remarkable. There are all the basics. When you 
 hit something there's a "clang"; when you run, you can hear footsteps; You can hear the water when 
 approaching a waterfall; Characters moan in effort when fighting. However, the ambient sound leaves 
 a lot to wish for. And yet, looking at some other MMORPGs, it's hard to be too demanding. After 
 all, this type of game is not about sound.
  
  PERFORMANCE
  
  There are several uncertainties about the recommended requirements of the game. They are reported 
 as being very low, but the truth, it seems, has traveled through too many sources to stay just 
 that. Every time one enters a strategically important town his machine is overwhelmed with the 
 amount of player models found on the citys central square. The effect is even more dreadful during 
 a castle siege when hundreds of players, if not thousands, get together to become a human sea and 
 flood your processing unit. The solution is to lower the world detail. This, in an instant, takes 
 out all the eye candy but saves you the gameplay.
  
  THE VERDICT
  
  L2 is a typical MMORPG and it suffers from all of the typical MMORPG problems, like the botting 
 and the involvement of real money in getting in-game benefits. However Lineage 2 is also, as most 
 MMORPGs, one of those games that can never end as long as there are people who play it. The totally 
 addictive nature of this gaming style will ensure that those who get a taste of the game will have 
 a very hard time leaving. L2 is, therefore, often a sad sight of a bunch of youngsters whose education 
 might lie in ruins, but they'll make sure that their castle isnt. Their girlfriends may dump them, 
 but theyll make sure that their clan mates are there when enemies are plentiful. If to include 
 the social value, the diverse visuals and the impressive music then Lineage 2 is not a game, it's 
 a different reality. When youre done playing, some elements, if seen or heard ever again, will 
 bring back the nostalgia of a thousand memories of all the good times you had with your friends 
 in your countless Lineage adventures. This feeling is just too immense and too special to merely 
 enclose it in a box and stamp a 6 or "7" on it as its score. Of course this powerful feeling 
 comes at a price both financially and socially. That price is the games main weakness, but isnt 
 that the case with every MMORPG?
  
  Personal thoughts
  
  The reason I came back to review this game, that I haven't played for a while now, is the "6" that's 
 been given to it by Gamespot. I might not be an expert (this was my first MMORPG) , and L2 might 
 not be the top of excellence, but is most certain not a 6. And the 6.4 that's been noted under 
 "They say" is, in my opinion, not too fair either. I found hundreds and hundreds of players online 
 in L2 and from many of them I heard how L2 is their favorite from all MMORPGs. I became one of 
 those people. And the only reason I want to destroy this game as well as its makers is that it 
 messed up my life outside of the game. With MMORPGs one of your worlds has to go, either the real 
 one or the virtual one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wawa2002
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 1, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  Lineage 2 is one of the best MMORPGs out there, the graphics are top of the line, the environments 
 are highly detailed. There are 5 races: humans, dark elves, light elves, dwarfs, and orcs. There 
 are atleast 15 different classes. Though I am disappointed with the lack of weapons and the range 
 of different type of weapons. And NC Soft hasn't balanced the different classes completely, there 
 are some that are way too strong. But Lineage 2 is about to get a huge upgrade with the realease 
 of chronicle 4 which will include : lvl cap increases to 78, S grade, a lot more land, more monsters, 
 more pets and pet abilities, improved AI of monsters and added a 3rd class to all races (not much 
 an improvement though) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xslayerxpac2
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jan 31, 2006 11:23 pm PT
Review:  I bought Lineage II out of the box back in Chronicle 1, which was basically the first version of 
 the game other than open beta. The last update ive heard of was Chronicle 3, but i stopped playing 
 shortly after C3 due to its repetativeness. The scenary is nice, it has beautiful graphics and 
 nicely modeled NPC's and characters, but the gameplay is stale and bland. If you're new to the 
 game and don't have any in-game friends to financially help you along the way, you're basically 
 going to have to kill monsters for hours upon hours at a time just to gain the necessary funds, 
 as the random side-quests that you can do don't really pay off too well. You start off as level 
 one, like any other RPG or MMO. Once you get to level 20, you can do a class change, which will 
 let you advance your character's skills and attributes. Level 20 will also let you use more powerful 
 D grade items. Heres the catch, it will take you countless hours of killing just to get the necessary 
 funds for No Grade items, which are level 1-19 items. Once you hit level 20, your No Grade items 
 will be highly outdated and it will be time to upgrade to D grade items. You'll need about 300,000 
 adena, the games currency, to get top No Grade gear (which will be outdated when you hit level 
 20) . That will take you hours and hours and hours to get, sometimes weeks if you're new. Once you 
 hit 20 and its time to buy the D grade stuff, that will run you around 1.5 million adena (for average 
 D grade stuff) . The items in the game are rediculously overpriced, and the only reason thayre priced 
 so highly is so the tens of thousands of Lineage 2 adicts can play the game for months and months 
 paying NCsoft 15 dollars a month. Leveling is more like a chore in Lineage 2, and doesnt offer 
 anything out of the ordinary. Yes, once you get to level 40, you can even use C grade items and 
 do another class change, but the crappiest C grade weapon for any class runs about 2.5 million 
 adena. Thats not including jewelry, armor, and other gear. Personally, it was a waste of my time, 
 FINALLY getting a character to level 52. Yes, I felt superior to some other people in the game 
 with my +3 doom armor and +8 samurai longsword which glowed bright blue, but anyone past level 
 61 always had better gear, and there was always someone better than you in the game. The gameplay 
 doesnt change either once you'; re level 52+, even though thats considered 'godly'. It's still the 
 same boring clicking PvP, and the same REALLY boring constant grind of PvM. It would have been 
 a much better game to start when it first came out, so you dont get sloughtered by all the griefers 
 that also infect the gameplay. If you're up for hours of the same boring monster sloughtering gameplay 
 day in and day out that Lineage II offers, go for it. But if you want something that has quality 
 instead of flash, Diablo 2, its a much higher quality game, more strategy, less bland, and best 
 of all, its free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sssjoerd
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 31, 2006 2:37 am PT
Review:  The Graphics, gameplay and freedom ingame are SOOOO realistic. Wind blows. Magic effects arent 
 fake too bright like in WoW, but realist. Makes you want to draw your sword in RL.
  
  The mobs are varied and not too easy. The points system is easy to understand, but also many other 
 features with higher difficulty for those who want it. If you want to keep it simple you can. If 
 you want L2 to rule your life .. it can.
  
  Underestimated compared to (in europe) more popular games like WoW or Guildwars. Those look like 
 Pacman Compared to Hidden & Dangerous 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 30, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  I started playing Lineage 2 during the beta testing phase, almost 2 years ago. I lef t it a while 
 after the game was released and then jumped right in with both feet about a year and a bit ago.
 
  
  The first thing that hits you is that the game does look good, especially around the Elven areas. 
 Population on the servers is still fairly high and there are always people to group up with.
  
  Now, unlike most other MMO's, Lineage 2 is not very 'quest' driven and the main way to gain 
 experience to improve your character is to just kill stuff. Almost all of my time was spent just 
 killing monster after monster and for a while it was not too bad.
  
  I managed to get my main character up to level 44 but around that time I was starting to get tired 
 of just grinding my way through the game and felt that I was not really achieving anything.
  
  Around this time I did cancel my account but since then I have jumped back in now and then 
 just to see what changes have happened with new updates and expansions but in all honesty, I find 
 it rather boring now and uninteresting.
  
  But it is popular still so maybe I need to try something different in there, it is just that I 
 keep thinking back to all those hours I spent, mindlessly grinding away that puts me off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azaiel
Rating: 6.4
Date: Sep 7, 2006 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Where to begin with this one is tricky, many people see Lineage 2 as many different things, so 
 I shall stick with how I see it. The first thing you will notice when you start the game is the 
 visuals and oh my word this game truely does look beutiful. The artwork is impressive throughout 
 the landscapes and the aharacters. Plus even running the game on the minimum system specs it still 
 runs good and still looks nice.
  
  The main thing you will need to know and what you need to expect when you start to play this game 
 like most MMORPG's you need time and dedication to get anywhere, however this game requires more 
 than most. It is by no means a casual players dream, Lineage 2 is very much set up for the hardcore 
 gamers who dont mind to work for their items and experience points. Items in this game are not 
 cheap and the Adena (in game currency) that is required for most items once you get to the level 
 20 mark becomes very high. There are no shortcuts on how to make money in this game you simply 
 have to do either repeatable quests to earn your way or hunt monsters and sell the loot that drops. 
 Once you actually have earned your new armor set or weaponry it is more satisfactory because it 
 feels like you actually earned those items and ontop of that there is the risk of losing them if 
 you die which also adds another layer ontop of the hard work.
  
  Lineage 2 is open PvP and that is something that is missing from alot of MMORPG's in my honest 
 oppinion, Arena based PvP is all well and good but sometimes the risk of leaving town to go on 
 a hunt and knowing there may be a group of Player Killers around the next bend waiting to take 
 you down is something which I personally like. You never know when you may need to defend yourself 
 against another player while outside of the safety of the town guards.
  
  To sum up, this game will not appeal to everyone but to those who do like a good challenge and 
 like to feel they have earned what they have in game then look no further. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: renegadedod
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2006 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Lineage 2 is a great game. The problem is that it is heavily under-appreciated. If you enjoy World 
 of Warcraft, then you may like this game. It is not as heavily played as WoW, but is has a lot 
 of people playing it. I don't know whether the majority of lineage 2 players play pay servers or 
 free servers. All i know is that I play a free server, after playing lineage 2 for its free month.
 
  
  The server I play on: the hobby server. If you would like to download the Hobby patch to play lineage 
 2 free on their server, then feel free to go to this site and download the patch:
  
  http://www. lin2hobby. com/
  
  But if you have not downloaded the game, you can download it for 
 free from their website, and then download the patch.
  
  http://www. lineage2. com/
  
  The link to their download page is:
  
  http://www. lineage2. com/pds/game_dw. html
  
  Now, 
 they say it is horribly repeatetive, and it kinda is, but the game is so addicted you get pass 
 that - especially when you level up and recieve a large amount of spells, attacks, and abilities.
 
  
  Now an introduction into the game. You can basically go to their official website for info on the 
 game, but this site, and un-official fansite which provides a lot more information on stuff inside 
 the game itself:
  
  http://www. lineage2-online. com/
  
  Now to start this all, Lineage is like most RPGs. You can pick different races (humans, elves, 
 dark elves, orcs, and dwarves) and classes (fighter or mystic - only fighter option for the dwarves) . 
 As you progress in the game, you can learn new skills, attacks, magic spells, and abilities. You 
 can also aquire new occupations (ie: upgrading your fighter guy to a warrior or ninja or something 
 or other, or upgrading your mystic to a magician or something or other) . This effects how your 
 player fighs significantly, and the weapons and equipment he uses. You can create many different 
 characters and choose different paths for them.
  One of the only problems i think the game has is the weapons/equipment classing. You start out 
 using equipment without any grade, but then as you upgrade your weapon, the weapon grade goes higher, 
 and there are requirements for certain grades. The grades are D, C, B, A, and S (D being the lowest; 
 S the highest) . The only major problem is that B grade and higher weapons can only be made by the 
 dwarf race. So a dwarf must make the weapon (which requires many different, and sometimes pricie, 
 materials) , and then buy it. You may get ripped off, but that is the problem with supply and demand 
 in an RPG.
  
  The solution is to either make your own dwarf character and raise him up high enough so that he 
 can make stuff for your guy (which may take some time) , or have a friend or someone in your clan 
 (you can make clans in this game on servers, but i'll get into the details later) . 
  
  The game can be played solo, or you can play with a group of people (whether they are friends or 
 just people you saw on the server and want to play with) . To play with other people you can form 
 "parties". In a Party, the xp and sp (sp is "spell points" which is points used for earning spells, 
 attacks, and abilities) and money is shared throughout the party. Materials you pick up after killing 
 "monsters" can either be randomly given to people in the party (it switches which item it gives 
 to a person - 1st thing you pick up goes to you, 2nd goes to friend, 3rd to you, 4th to friend, 
 and you get the picture) .
  
  Now clans is basically a giant Party which is more permanent, but not totally permanent (ie: you 
 can leave and enter clans) . They have a special chat option for when typing in game so you can 
 chat to either your party, clan, traders, or just to everyone nearby. When talking normally (to 
 everyone) , what you type only goes so far (ie: people far away from you will not see the message) . 
 
  Clans can control, take over, and defend castles or clan halls. You can create siege weapons (thanks 
 to the dwarves) and capture a castle from a clan, but will have to defend it from other clans. 
 I have not personally participated in anything to do with a castle event, but plan to in the future.
 
  
  That is about as much detail as I plan to get into, but I will tell you that the map is huge and 
 would take many hours to even cross straight through the map from one end to the other. It would 
 take many days to explore the entire map.
  
  If you would like tojoin me in the Hobby server, then you can contact me. My Dark Elf character 
 is named "DarkRenegade" you can contact me by putting "DarkRenegade in your chat thing and typing 
 out a message. You must have thein front of the name (that is for PMing people in the server) .
 
  
  PS: If you mention this review and I'll give you a ton of free adena (adena is the currency) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianthe12
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 10, 2006 12:03 pm PT
Review:  It's a real honor to actually meet the Production Team of Lineage II, of whom I had only heard 
 (laugh) . The thing that players say most often when they see Lineage II is, of course, "What a 
 large land mass!" The history of the land, origin of the regions and sources for things like the 
 etymology of words --where did you get those ideas?
  
  
  Team Head Hyeong-Jin Kim (hereinafter, referred to as "Kim") : Of course, the mythology of Lineage 
 II was influenced for the most part by Lineage I. There are many cases where the locations and 
 characters have been borrowed directly from Lineage I. In fact, they both take place along the 
 same timeline, so it's natural that there would be the same locations and characters.
  
  
  When we look at the story, we can see not only the myths of Creator Einhasad and Gran Kain 
 but also various behind-the-scenes stories for various gods. In particular, it was very shocking 
 to have established the close relationship between Shilen, god of death, and Gran Kain, who is 
 his father. Could there be some other areas that were influenced by ancient mythology too?
  
  
  Kim: You say that it is shocking and that really shows your interest (laughs) . There aren't 
 any myths that have had a direct influence on the myths of Lineage II. On the other hand, the myths 
 of northern Europe and Greece, and the traditional fantasy myths of Tolkien and others can be said 
 to form an overall framework.
  
  
  Oh, really! The mythological factors are very important in Lineage II and it seems that they are 
 embedded all over in the game. I mean, roaming around in the world, there just seem to be so many 
 carefully prepared areas that stand out. Does the Tower of Giants in the Cruma Marshlands have 
 a mythological background?
  
  
  Cruma is in the shape of a giant turtle and is one of the genesis creatures created at the beginning 
 with the gods. There are various types of genesis creatures in addition to Cruma. In fact, the 
 Worldtree in the Elven Forest is also one of the genesis creatures. And the other genesis creatures 
 will also make their debuts one at a time with the progression of episodes in Lineage II.
  
  The Giant Tower had a lot of strong power while being prepared for battle with the gods at 
 the end of the Titan Era, but Cruma, which was in the shape a peaceful creature, was a laboratory 
 used in an attempt to change it into a battle fortress. Core is a creature like a main computer 
 that controls the entire laboratory. The titans were destroyed, but the ruins of the titans remain 
 here, and they are performing some functions. What could Core be thinking about in the deep places 
 of Cruma Tower?... That's something nobody can know.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coppernaut
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 4, 2006 1:24 am PT
Review:  One of the most deep, immersive online games I've played in a long time, if ever. Very cool, and 
 charming graphic style. This game is very popular over in Korea and it's too bad it didn't ge the 
 recognition that it does over there. I'll admit first off, the grind is pretty hard. But it's all 
 worth it in the end when you're all around level 70, in a clan within an alliance, fighting for 
 a major castle with hundreds of other players around the world. So many classes to evolve into, 
 some can't even make up their mind half way through the game. It's a fun hardcore pvp game that 
 could be best described as a "bitter sweet harsh pleasure". Make sense? Ya. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lineage2x
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2005 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Best MMORPG ever played ! 
  u gotta try it out ..
  c4 ~ ^^
  so its updated and better .. dragons .. everything if u dont try it out. ..
  theres no point 
 of playing this awesome game !!!!
  So go on right now and get this Game !!!
  Its only 15$ a month so if u dont get it ...
  Ull be turning out playing Power Rangers .. HA 
 ha ha ha 
  Jk just get this game very Awesome.
  
  Ok .. im done writing and i gota write at least 100 words so ..
  Get this Game!!!!!
  Get this 
 Game!!!!
  Get the Game!!!
  Get this Game!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: White_Puma
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 28, 2005 1:22 am PT
Review:  I've always been a arpg lover and for me the best is Diablo and Diablo 2. After playing this games 
 it was hard for me to like another arpg, but lineage won me. I loved the graphics, the music, the 
 characters, the smart variety of moves, the lovely pets, the great sceneries, the way the world 
 is online.
  But of course lineage is not a perfect game. At first it was very hard for me to get used to movement, 
 camera system, but when u get used to it not bad at all. There are not that much spells in my opinion 
 not for all classes anyway. It has a poor quest system and thats a big  for me.
  If you like online rpgs you will have to play this game it will be a great experience ^^
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LarzaHawk
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2005 7:03 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games a true MMo doesn't give up on . It's one that is has it's moment .Cause 
 you think you'll going to lose it .But yet the game play and Story line is one that well yet you 
 at it for hrs .Not to speak of the outgoing artwork used in this game .It's just like you closed 
 your eyes and you had been tranported into it .The fantasy of this amazing it out of this world 
 .Not to speak of the colors of all the sences is outstanding . So if you think you have what it 
 take to play for hrs afters hrs and day after days .This game it for .Yes L2 is outstanding in 
 the Rping and MMo world . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyberdad
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2005 11:03 pm PT
Review:  Simply put, this is the game that you can tottaly fall in love with. Yes it is repetitive if you 
 play it alone and not in groups. What game isn't repetitive after all? The difference is that in 
 this kind of game you do have a great option to always play together with others and against others. 
 You have the option to fight or help others fight, trade all day long in a real market out of real 
 people. You could just drop by the center of Giran for a chat or get your dragon and go for a trip 
 into the massive and spectacular world of Lineage. If you want to be a gladiator, you can sit around 
 the arenas and take on opponents. Want some fun? - Go to the coloseum and watch monsters like Antharas 
 in action! Monsters that can be killed only by armies of thaousands of the best players in the 
 game worldwide! Imagine battles with litteraly thousands of players when in a siege or against 
 a raid boss monster. You can simply do ANYTHING you like in this game. You can even form a clan 
 of Killers and go raid cities. 
  
  Wonderfull places, magnificent graphics, excellent multiplayer system, a lot of events, numerous 
 ways to play the game, awesome effects.
  
  Try it! Give it a try for a week or so, just until you are strong enough to leave the beginners 
 village of your tribe and go out for the great trip. 
  
  Mark my words: You will not want to live without it!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frifflizer
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2005 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Lineage 2 is the best mmorpg I have ever played. I have only been playing it for a couple of months 
 but it is still amazing. The different races of the game make it more interesting like the orcs 
 with their brute strength and dwarf's with the ability to create items. The massive world is amazing 
 and will amaze you the many locations are enchanting and in brilliant detail. The complex dungeons 
 will have you interested for hours. I have played other mmorpgs but none of them are as good as 
 lineage 2. all of my friends agree with me that lineage is the best game we have ever played . 
 my friend has been playing lineage for a year now and he has the same opinion as me about the game. 
 We often meet each other in lineage to train and complete quests etc.
  Overall if you like mmorpgs then lineage is the game for you the graphics and game play are outstanding 
 and the game is great overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killerjoe17
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 17, 2005 5:32 am PT
Review:  It seems like every time I turn around there's a new MMO on the market. Most are caught between 
 a rock and a hard place: in order to succeed these games have to cultivate a following by giving 
 gamers something they can't get anywhere else but in order to get lots of players to buy into the 
 idea, the developers have to adhere to proven models. Lineage 2 is in the same predicament, hoping 
 to distinguish itself by PVP elements but presenting them in world that follows most of the conventions 
 of the genre. 
  
  There's nothing particularly surprising about the world of Lineage 2. Rather than departing from 
 the established fantasy milieu, Lineage offers up the all-too-predictable dwarves, elves and orcs 
 that we've seen in countless other games. Class options are similarly unsurprising, with characters 
 divided between the fighter and magic-user disciplines. There is a chance to specialize in your 
 class at later levels but, for the most part, you can either throw spells or swing a sword. 
  The story as told through the quests reveals a world in decline. There's a real strong "those were 
 the days" theme running through most of the conversations and the slightly nostalgic approach definitely 
 helps the game stand out from the "world in crisis" motif that most MMOs rely on. To be fair, the 
 world of Lineage 2 is currently in a crisis but the focus on how things aren't as great as they 
 used to be is a nice touch. 
  
  As you run through the game world (and there is a lot of running in this game) , you'll find the 
 requisite goblins, lizardmen, wolves, etc. that you've come to expect in traditional high fantasy 
 games. Though a few stand, cow-like in the middle of fields, there are monsters who will attack 
 you if you get too close and there are even a few that will call their friends over for a little 
 help when you attack them. 
  
  Combat with these enemies makes up almost all of the content in the game. In the in between time, 
 you'll either be sitting on your butt gazing dreamily up at the sky while your health regenerates 
 or simply running back and forth between the enemies and your quest givers. The Diablo-like point 
 and click movement system is a really nice touch (and one I wish was present in other MMOs) , but 
 the pathfinding isn't so great. It's nice to click on a point on the horizon and trust your character 
 to get there, but the fences, trees and rocks in the way will cause them no end of frustration. 
 
  
  The quest system could use a lot of work. To begin with, you're not ever sure which NPCs have quests 
 for you and which don't until you actually select the "quest" topic during conversation. Half the 
 time, they'll simply tell you that "conditions aren't right" for them to give you a quest. Half 
 of the rest of the time, the quest they can offer is beyond your level. This results in a lot of 
 useless running around and pointless conversations. While some may feel that the question mark 
 markers in World of Warcraft are a bit gamey, they definitely direct players to content quicker 
 than Lineage 2's system does. 
  
  This can create the impression that Lineage 2 doesn't actually have much content. And while there 
 are plenty of quests to be found in the game, new players will have a hard time finding enough 
 to do. The fact that you'll often have to kill dozens and dozens of the same type of monster for 
 some of these quests does tend to extend their practical usefulness but it also adds to the monotony. 
 You'll have a high time investment for these missions but a disproportionately small reward. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: frickinkid
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2005 5:43 pm PT
Review:  I FREAKIN LOVE THIS GAME LINEAGE 2 IS THE BEST i know its late for me to say this cause ive been 
 playing this since it came out April 27 last year ive been playing since but C1 came then C2 then 
 C3 and C4 is coming out very soon i cant wait i pee in my pants ok its awesome i cant wait but 
 i cant wait though ok...... but anyway i cant wait yes i know i have a lvl 67 Necro and a lvl 73 
 BD and a lvl 64 1/2 monk so ..... its kool im good at this game.... i want to be a hero so bad but 
 there is only goin to be a hero a skill trait but there will be an olimpia so i cant wait ok bye 
 now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Serathin
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 6, 2005 7:11 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is a great game but it would be alot better if it were more popular and more 
 people in america played it because its more popular in korea then here (why on earth that is, 
 I have no idea) it still is a great game to play and i still play it only im having trouble with 
 it right now because my system isn't working ) : I Still dont understand what review text is or 
 what point it serves  um... i dont know what else to type... 
 Its a grat game please play it and... woo hoo!!!!!!!!!! for video games... and cheese!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erikkii
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 4, 2005 3:21 am PT
Review:  Lineage 2, yes well i've never played lineage one but i really like mmorpg's i'm playing WOW to 
 right now so i can really tell the difference between them. 
  
  First if i may choose between WOW and L2 i will definetly go for WOW. why? well WOW is bigger, 
 better, more beatifull and i think colorfull. L2 comes more to the real world when you look at the 
 colors and caracters. But that's maybe a weak point because WOW more famous and with no exepsions 
 the best mmorpg from this time.
  
  Where WOW has a large scale of caracter choise L2 comes a little bit short. yes it has 4 different 
 types of caracters but you have only 2 classes. that's from my opinion a little bit weak. I mean 
 if you want to compete with mmorpg's right now you have to have a large of different caracter classes 
 and races. 
  
  The colors in the world are a little weak i think and didn't shok me like WOW did. Further i think 
 L2 is a little bit chaotic and i really miss the abbility to change our controls and to invite 
 your friends. Maybe it's just me but i'm not so happy with L2.
  
  that's it for now and i'm looking forward to your oppinions 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nag
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 28, 2005 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Lineage II is an incredible game that have been, for the first chronicle, really underestimated. 
 I saw how it was in the C1, for sure it was far from some other MMORPG, but was already not bad 
 at all. But since I have seen the C2, I've been addicted to it. I bought the game like a month 
 ago and the servers are on C3, the updates that have comes through the C2 and the C3 are big enough 
 to reconsider the overall of that game. With the videos of the C4 I saw, I can only hope the step 
 to it soon because this game doesn't stop to improve. The world in the C3 is totally different 
 from the one in the C1, better graphics, better skills, less problems with bugs, and the amount 
 of events they put every week keeps you challenged and gives you new ways to play your game. So 
 to evaluate this game properly you have to give a try to the tree chronicles because it improves 
 all the time and by only looking at the first one, you will miss all the new stuff of the others. 
 That's why this game have been underestimated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ranfar
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 26, 2005 10:52 pm PT
Review:  I beta'd this game, and found that it was an extremely enjoyable game. NC soft then precede to 
 drop the ball. The game was unstable at release, and the leveling grind was far too severe. I know 
 most of the communit ywas turned off by frequent sever failures, adenna macro farmers, and the 
 seemingly unending leveling grind. The game has turned around since then. Over 1 year later I returned 
 to teh game and found that leveling was easier, and grouping was plentiful and enjoyable. The PVP 
 I saw seemed balanced. , but I have yet to see a seige of a castle. The world is breathtaking, 
 and the gameplay is solid. I place the game above WOW in the enjoyment department. I do this because 
 of the encouragement to group together is present in XP bonuses. Also, the WOW PVP was filled with 
 unintelligent mindless ganking at certain times, and I have not found that to be so in lineage2. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mosefire
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 16, 2005 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Looks like a good game on the cover but not quite what it should've been. I liked the idea of having 
 HUGE PvP castle seiges but there were never alot of people around to enjoy the expirence. Got to 
 admit the look is great and graphics are decent, but not very addictive. If I had bout 50-100 people 
 to play the same server and stay active for along time it would be a great game, and we could have 
 loads of fun. Lineage 2 to me was a disappointment but I wish I could've been around for its release, 
 so it would've been more addictive and so more people would be able to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThatGrungeKid18
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2005 9:59 am PT
Review:  The game is awsome, massive world, tons of players but the economy in the game keeps it from being 
 newbie friendly. Bot Farming has made the prices SO outrageous that just in order to get B and 
 A grade you have no other choice but to Ebay money which sucks. Other than that major problem Im 
 hooked on it and can't wait for Chronicle 4 which is on its way very soon!! In chronicle 4 they 
 will be working on the economy and fixing many glitches as well as adding quests and better sub-class 
 system. Awsome events that keep you hooked and make you want to keep playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BailieBeltane
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 7, 2005 5:15 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game for a long time. It is a great MMORPG, but I can say so myself that it is very 
 addictive. I think it is very fun and is a way for me to escape for awhile. I stopped playing this 
 game just a little while ago. I hope that I can start back up again. This is probably one of the 
 few games I enjoyed for the long amount of time I played it. I think everyone should give it a 
 try if they like MMORPGs and if they want to have a little fun. I think Lineage 2 and even 1 are 
 very good and addictive games.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rebjunior
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 2, 2005 4:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is very good i really enjoyed it... I actually start up my account again. But this game 
 can make people go insane.... literally, to the point of being friends with someone for a long 
 time and then stealing all they have worked for in the game... also if you ever run into someone 
 named Evalen... he is a scammer... I have had some experiences with him, so you might think he 
 is cool and a nice guy but he just wants to take or ruin your character's stuff. He was friends 
 with one of my friends and he stole eveything from him... see what I mean this game will drive 
 some people to that. Also if you have a character on this game and you like MMORPGs you could become 
 addicted.... seriously addicted!
  
  ups and Downs
  +Great graphics, beautiful world
  +Fun to have clans and hang with friends online
  + sometimes if you get lucky it is easy to make 
 GOOD friends
  
  -takes forever to level
  -you could become addicted I know a ton of people that are
  -not a lot of nice people in this 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akhorahill
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 25, 2005 9:01 am PT
Review:  Lineage 2 is a well rounded MMORPG with much to offer for those willing to spend the necessary 
 time to become high level players.
  
  It follows the same game structure of all MMORPG, you begin the game as an impish fighter/mage 
 that must kill progressively more powerful beasts in order to become richer and more powerful. 
 Tough faithful to that premise, Lineage 2 offers much more.
  
  Built on the Unreal Engine, its graphics are very beautiful and sharp. The huge landscape has all 
 kinds of terrain, vegetation, hills, mountains, rivers and stunningly beautiful cities. It's worth 
 to explore all sites just to see all kinds of textures the L2 team have created. Moving from one 
 point of the map to another means not only different creatures but also some new types trees, soil, 
 bushes and so on.
  
  There are several character models to choose from and all model animation is top notch. The graphics 
 look surprisingly good on a 64M - GeForce MX 400 video card, what surely indicates a solid engine. 
 The models were realistically designed, with impressive weapons and armor.
  
  The music is all orchestrated. As soon as you enter a village, a store, or a different area of 
 the map, a beautiful music begins to play. Soft tunes for the elven city, a cheerful music for 
 the warehouse and battle drums for the lizardmen plains. I visit some areas of the map more often 
 just to listen to their music.
  
  The game system is well balanced and has been designed with PvP and large scale battles in mind. 
 As such, some characters are weaker on 1 vs. 1 combat but play in important role on small parties 
 or sieges. All races have their own set of special abilities, professions and armor and weapon 
 designs.
  
  The main flaw of L2 is that it seems to have been created with the high level character in mind. 
 That can be seen in several gaming aspects such as:
  
  a. The PvP is balanced only once you have access to high level skills.
  b. Clan features and 
 abilities cost so much money that you won't join a clan before level 30.
  c. Sieges and large scale battles are for players above level 50.
  d. There are more weapons 
 and armor models for characters above level 52 than for characters level 20-40.
  e. Mounts are for extremely high level characters and the coolest are reserved to the 5 castle 
 lords.
  
  But believe me, those are nice features. Clan hunting is extremely vivid and tactical as are sieges, 
 large scale battles with dozens of players battling to take control of a castle. The high level 
 spells and skills are beautiful to behold and are often associated with cool visual effects. 
 
  
  Some people say it's a tough MMORPG as the death penalty is stiff and there are some high level 
 Player Killers in some servers but I'd say it's worth the shot if you're looking for more than 
 a casual RPG. 
  
  Tough Lineage 2 only shows its brightest gems to devoted players, I'd say they are beautiful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elvish_God
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 25, 2005 2:33 am PT
Review:  Many have speculated about this game. For the most, including Game Spot, it sucks! I've played 
 this game far more than a year, and if you like MMORPG believe me, Lineage II is one of the best. 
 It's true that when Lineage II came out, his value was really poor, but almost everything has change 
 since then. In my opinion Game Spot should review the game or divide it in Lineage II - Chronicle 
 1 and Lineage II - Chronicle 3. It's an abysmal difference. Just try it and tell me. Just hope 
 that Lineage III will be announced soon.
  
  This last sentence it's just to see if I can reach the one hundred words! ROFL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marcin043
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2005 8:16 am PT
Review:  I never played better game ....!!!!!!!!! It didn't like any rpg and stuff like that but when i 
 saw that game i changed my mind cause its best mmorgp in world :D: D . The fact that the game is 
 free puttin' that game on the 1st place. The graphic is gr8 but remmember its online game so the 
 grapics are very good . Only the sound are boring but when u listen to music u dont feel it. i; m 
 playin' this game for almost one year and i must say that game is the best . Many races and profesion 
 give to us many abilites so u can play that game for ever********* . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mario20d
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 11, 2005 8:22 am PT
Review:  I know this game is not for everyone, because of its time consuming level grind, but I have seen 
 that in each Chronicle that was released, the game in someway has been improved a lot. I know that 
 Game spot gave this game a fairly low grade but its good also if they do a follow up review for 
 each chronicles. I have seen the preview site of Chronicle 4 and to be honest, I really enjoy it 
 and can't wait to play it when it is released in NA server.
  This game is getting better and better. There is something about L2 that makes it so unique, and 
 that is why I still play L2 every now and then. At the beginning, this game can be really boring, 
 but it really pays off when you are in medium to high level range. This game is not like other 
 MMO (i. e. Guild Wars and Wow) . I have played Wow and GW and both games are fine for me and I can 
 still enjoy it, but still I dont really like the graphic quality of those two games. On the other 
 hand L2 graphic is always improved in each of its Chronicles. The open pvp system, castle siege 
 and also the addition of CP (Combat Points) , and many other new skills, quests, hero class system, 
 3rd class transfer, and so on are the features that make L2 a game of its own.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fantasyx92
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 27, 2005 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Everyone knows about all those knew games out there like WoW & EQ2. The older games though are 
 normally fixed up and have a good standing community. And an older game that was passed by is Lineage 
 2. This game is a good buy, only $15 and you get a month free, from there on its $15 a month. This 
 game will keep you occupied for some time. Unlike many other games its not the fastest game to 
 level in. Most people have taken nearly a year to get there top level characters and from there 
 on you can do it agian with subclassing raising your level even higher. In SWG i went from lv.28 
 to lv.80 in 4 hours, a bit too easy. But besides the fact you won't become top level in a week, 
 you'll enjoy the many Dungeons and raids the game has. There are dungeons for almost all levels, 
 and they all pay well. But the biggest feature that attracts most players is The Castle Sieges. 
 There are currently 6 castles for diffrent clans to control. The sieges can consit of many players 
 without much lag, though i can't say much more since i havn't been in one myself. I'm glad to say 
 that the game is getting better as time continues and theres never been a better time to join. 
 So if you enjoy riding Dragons and Besieging a castle, and a game that will last you a while pick 
 up Lineage 2 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterchief9000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 23, 2005 11:17 pm PT
Review:  If you dont like PvP or cant handle being picked on or hasseled (not that there isnt a great community 
 like some people say... there is.. its just harder to find) dont buy this game. If you dont have at 
 least 25hrs a week to play, dont buy this game. Ok if you like a game with an atmosphere of harsh 
 econmics/poliics/battle over land and power (i. e. castles/taxes/totally amazing visuals and artwork/ 
 comraderie.. storming a castle with hundreds of friends a titanic seige golem and an army of striders (land 
 dragon) then i suggest you buy it. The grind is tough.. thats probably the worst fault, but if your 
 a select few that like the chaotic, rule the land style of game then Lineage 2 is your best decision:) 
 IMO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaffin981
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 3, 2005 2:40 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the most overlooked MMORPGs that is out right now. Also i think game reviewers need 
 to do review updates on games like this because they are changing all the time and getting better. 
 for example the castle sieges in the review on this website they said there is no castle sieges 
 but there has been now for almost a year . so that kinda throws people off when reading about it 
 and seeing if it is a good game for them to get. Also the money thing in the game well yes it sucks 
 but if you start out with a new character and really do some level grinding in one area for a good 
 amount of time you will get really good drops that sell for alot. speaking of level grinding i 
 hear alot of complaints about that too and it is not that bad i went from level 18 to 34 in 4 days 
 i played for about 6 to 7 hours aday with work in between. I just found some really good spots 
 to hunt and also got really great drops and made money in no time. So when it came time for class 
 change and new equipment i was all set after selling the drops and equipment that i had on my character. 
 also if you start out early talking and helping people you will find some really good people to 
 join up with and also a clan to hook up with . on the subject of clans they are great once you 
 get into one that is good . they help you get equipment ,money and go on group hunts which helps 
 you get better drops and more exp. there is some things that are not good about this game like 
 the pet system for example but there is always going to be flaws with any game and i think sometimes 
 game reviewers look to much at the flaws and not at the game as a whole. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vonhawkmoon
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 28, 2005 12:43 am PT
Review:  Yes the graphics are beautiful which is the main reason i bought this thing in the first place. 
 However the game play is boring and not terribily challenging or enjoyable. The interface is annoying 
 in that you can't jump and tend to get stuck in the scenery easily. Also I have no clue what the 
 game designers were thinking by making the characters run all hunched over. I find this annoying 
 interface and graphic particularly puzzling when you compare it to City of Heroes, also put out 
 by NCsoft, which has one of the best interfaces and character movement of any game out there. (and 
 which by the way is also a far superior game)
  I can not believe this game is so popular internationally. Do Asians not have any access to all 
 the far superior games available in Europe and America? Or is their taste simply that bad?
  I've tried alot of these games and still play more than one such game routinely and believe me, 
 virtually any other Mmorpg out there that has gotten any sort of decent press is a better game. 
 In no particular order you are much better off and will probably have alot more fun playing any 
 of these games over Lineage II
  World of Warcraft
  City of Heroes
  Everquest
  Everquest II 
  Dark Age of Camelot
  Anarchy Online
  Final Fantasy XI
  I am sure there are 
 others out there that are better as well but these are the ones I have tried that I think are better. 
 So don't get caught up in any kind of hype about this game has more players than all the others 
 combined. China has more people than all the countires in the Nato Alliance combined. That doesn't 
 mean you should move there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apocalypse_King
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 1, 2005 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Lineage II: The Chaotic Chronicle has recieved a lot of bad press, for a number of reasons. It 
 is a MMORPG, or Massively Multiplayer Online Role-Playing Game, which, for those of you who don't 
 know, means you create a character, and then put him/her into a huge online world, where you can 
 see every other player and interact with them. The MMORPG genre is relatively new, and is still 
 suffering from some teething problems, which make up for the majority of qualms peope have with 
 this game.
  
  Firstly, in order to become successful in this game, you have to devote a lot of time to it. This 
 game is not for casual gamers, at least not if you want to actually get anywhere in the game. There 
 is a long, endless, and unforgiving level grind. The levelling system itself is a fairly basic 
 RPG levelling system; you start at level 1, you fight monsters, you get experience, and after reching 
 a certain amount of experience, you level up, and become stronger. And so on. The game basically 
 revolves around levelling, at least for the first part. The majority of quests in the game involve... 
 yep, you guessed it. Killing monsters. There isn't any other way to level up. So most of your time 
 in the game will be spent endlessly killing monsters, over and over and over. If you can't stand 
 the idea of this monotony, then this game is definetely not for you. The level grind is tough to 
 begin with, but there's an added dose of unforgivingness. If you die, you lose experience, and 
 can even go down levels. If you die 3 or 4 times quickly, especially at higher levels, you can 
 lose days of work. And when other players are trying to kill you for no apparent reason, it can 
 be a very risky environment at times.
  
  Which brings me to my next point. The player community. As you would expect from a MMORPG, the 
 community is a mixed bag of great people, and annoying people, and cheaters. The community in Lineage 
 II is often referred to as one of the worst, with huge numbers of bots (people who use computer 
 program scripts to control their characters for them while they do something else) , and farmers 
 (people who endlessly kill the same kind of monster, in order to pick up money it drops, and often 
 eventually sell it on eBay) . I may have been lucky, but I have seen very few bots and farmers since 
 I started playing. The problem is there, but it isn't any worse than any other MMORPG. 
  
  A questionable feature in many people's views is the PvP system. Lineage II is an open PvP game, 
 meaning that any other player can attack you any time, anywhere. When a player hits another player, 
 their name turns purple. When a player kills another player, their name turns red, and they can 
 be freely killed by anyone without penalty. But, if you get killed by another player, you will 
 ose experience as always, and you can also potentially drop an item you are carrying or wearing 
 (which could be very expensive) . This adds to the 'love it or hate it' factor in this game; some 
 people clearly can't stand the possibillity of losing expensive items and time-consuming experience 
 to some random player who just decided to take a swipe at them. But that is the world of Lineage 
 II, a world where you have to be ready for anything. If you're worried about being killed by players, 
 then you should make a habit of travelling in groups, at least until you are strong enough to defend 
 yourself.
  
  The world of Lineage II, the land of Aden, is huge. I mean really huge. It would take hours to 
 travel across it. In the whole time I have been playing the game, I have only covered a tiny part 
 of the map. If there was no monsters, or quests, or action in this game, I would still play it, 
 simply to explore this massive, beautiful world. The Unreal engine has been put to good use in 
 Lineage II. The water looks beautiful with it's reflections, the hills look beautiful too. Although, 
 I have noticed, that turning the view distance down to about 3 (the middle setting) makes the game 
 look even better, by adding an ethereal fog to the landscape. Another nice feature, if not particularly 
 important to the game, is that almost all the mountains in the game are climbable in some way, 
 so you can go up the (often very high) hills for a nice view.
  
  The game's sound is good for the most part, the background music is as you would expect for a medieval 
 castles and dragons and swords and magic RPG. The sound effects are mostly good (although I wish 
 there was more of a variety of sounds for the casting of mage spells, it can get a bit grating 
 if you're casting Wind Strike over and over again, and hearing the same annoying 'magic words' 
 over and over again) .
  
  As for value for money, well, Lineage II is one of the more expensive MMORPGs, with a monthly fee 
 of $15 a month (I think, I'm from the UK so it's around 8 a month for me) . You do get a free month, 
 though, and if you really hate the game, you can cancel before you have to pay anything. 
  
  The biggest problem with this game actually comes from the developers themselves, NCSoft. They 
 consistently refuse to listen to the players when introducing new features, etc, the most recent 
 problem being NCSoft introducing a program called GameGuard. GameGuard is a hacking prevntion system, 
 developed by a Korean company called NProtect. It was introduced in the Korean servers first, and 
 it sems to be coming to the North American / European servers now. It almost came un-noticed, NCSoft 
 have still not made an official announcement regarding it. The problem with all this is, GameGuard 
 is known to interfere with other programs in Windows outside of Lineage II, including terminating 
 an important process in Windows XP. On all the computers it has been tried on, it has given different 
 results, making the game unplayable for some. GameGuard itself is also classified as Spyware. But, 
 despite the continuing objections of a large part of the North American and European player base, 
 NCSoft refuse to listen, and as a result a lot of players are leaving the game, rather than have 
 Spyware forced upon them.
  
  Aside from that though, Lineage II is a very enjoyable game, with, for the most part, a good player 
 community. There is a lot of fun to be had in the world of Aden, but Lineage II is not for everyone, 
 and casual players may want to give this one a miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FTW000
Rating: 2.4
Date: Dec 31, 2004 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Here is a warning other then a review, buy city of heroes , ncsoft made a great game there, cause 
 this game bites. Grapically its gorgeous, lush graphics, great scenery and i just told you all 
 lineage has to offer, cause seriously gameplay wise its slow, boring, repetitive and to be kind, 
 puts you to sleep. Till lvl 20 the game doesnt open up, thats whyen you can change jobs and become 
 a wizard or a knight etc etc, but to get to lvl 20 is pure torture, if your a mystic you have to 
 fight low level monsters till god knows when, cause the second you take on something even remotly 
 higher in level then you, you die. So you say its an online game, you should team up and youll 
 be fine. Thats so true except Lineage 2 has the worst community in the excistance of the world, 
 i think there all 10 year olds, or grown men with way too much testostirone, i was in one group 
 and they where fighting about who hits hardest and that the other guy is a wimp for only taking 
 on 2 skeletons while he can take on 3, Come on guys grow up. Now i won't mock Ncsoft because i 
 am a grand fan of city of heroes, in fact i gave it a 9.8 its a grand game, great community, great 
 fun all round. But what the hell happened in this game. I also played FFXII and damn it seems like 
 the people a ncsoft got that game and cloned it, yet dumbing it down in the process. Anyways i 
 hate to give any game game a bad review but i think you all should now, before you go and waste 
 your cash like i did. BUY CITY OF HEROES. As far as i am concerned the staff at gamespot where 
 too kind by giving this game a 6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thec1arity
Rating: 6.4
Date: Nov 12, 2004 1:03 am PT
Review:  When I first started playing Lienage 2 I was impresed with the unique art style the developers 
 (Korean) seemed to us to make Lineage 2. It seemed to set itself apart from the traditional medieval 
 themed MMORPGs that litter the market today. 
  
  Like a lot of Lineage 2 players, I quickly found myself getting PK'd (player killed) by random 
 people just because the y could. And it's not like they would just kill you once. Most likely, 
 they'd follow you around and just keep killing you. What's worse is sometimes guilds or groups 
 of PKers would block of the exits to starter towns and kill anyone who tried to leave. The Elf 
 starter town is the first that comes to mind. Once I finally got out of the newbie town I was impressed 
 with the cool voice overs that seemed to be myserious and well, eastern. Imagine that. Eastern 
 voice overs from an eastern game developer. My joy with the voice overs turned to sheer bordem 
 when I realized that all there really was to do was camp spawns and kill orc or mushrooms over 
 and over and over again. Let's put it this way. I believe I killed enough orc to make Tolkien's 
 "Battle for Helm's Deep" look like childs play. It's that bad. 
  
  Lineage 2 is nothing more than a giant grind filled with PKers who seem to kill just because they 
 can. The penality system seems to do little from persuading them to play the game instead of killing 
 poor newbies. Not to mention, adena, Lineage 2's currency, is extremely hard to come by and very 
 often you find yourself tempted to start searching elsewhere to get it. Lineage 2 is all riddled 
 with boters who just run a script in a dungeon or around a spawn and farm all day and night. If 
 something they are farming is something you need to kill for a quest or if it's the only thing 
 in an area worth fighting to you, you're screwed because more times than not, they are twinked 
 boters who have multi-million adena weapons that will most likely kill you if you mess with their 
 business.
  
  Lineage 2 had potential with the massive castle sieges and unique art. Not to mention, it's built 
 off the Unreal Warfare engine so it's looks decent. However, it's generally uninspiring and more 
 of the same. In short, it's not worth your money or time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fredao
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 24, 2004 8:46 am PT
Review:  This game is very a full time job to me. you need to play at less 8 hours to keep up your level 
 with other player. items are too expensive. ppl ks your mobs, dwarf (famers) (ppl that farmer adena 
 to sell on ebay or ... ) they spoils your mobs no matter what you to them. when you start play 
 for level 1 a lot red play outside of town will kill you make you hard to levle it up. GM do not 
 care about it . a lot ppl runing bot on the server. ever you report them to GM next time you walk 
 by the same place that player still boting there so the GM is not doing there job right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freddy
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 5, 2004 4:33 am PT
Review:  I love this game, it's one of my favorites. The only problem I have is the PVP system which really 
 is lame when other players can kill you without warning. For novice players starting off, it'll 
 be frustrating when you try to lvl up and end up encounting many PKers who will make lvling a little 
 difficult. There is no fun when you constantly die because a high lvl wants to kill you. I'm not 
 going to get into detail because as of now I've deactivated my account due to the lack of PVP system 
 NCsoft uses. Star Wars Galaxies is probably the best PVP I've seen to date. Allowing the user to 
 accept or decline a duel. 
  
  Lineage II is good, but the PVP system and grinding needs to be changed a bit so the user can have 
 more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giliad
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 4, 2004 3:49 pm PT
Review:  I started playing Lineage II in Closed Beta, and was amazed at the graphics when first entering 
 the world. The gameplay was good when starting out too. Lineage II started with Prelude at launch, 
 and increasing the first few levels was great fun. After hitting level 15, the leveling process 
 started to slow down a lot and just kept getting worse. That is my biggest complaint with this 
 game. The grind is unreal!!! They did a good job with the looks and content of the game, but the 
 grind almost makes it not worth it to me. I say almost, because I find myself wanting to go back 
 to the grind to experience new content. It seems you really have to spend 10-12 hours a day to 
 stay competetive in this game, and to enjoy the content they have provided. If you have A LOT of 
 time to level and grind, then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeroRathe
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 30, 2004 7:44 am PT
Review:  Beautiful game, but a grind !
  
  The Unreal engine makes beautiful graphics, it makes scenery come alive. Animations look fabulous 
 in a battle, and there is plenty of eye candy for those who enjoy it.
  
  Gameplay is pretty simple, and has a very short time to get used to, especially for anyone who 
 has played the genre before. Pretty much point and click !
  
  However, and this is a BIG however. The game is pretty slow moving, and is an EXTREME grind. It 
 becomes a challenge to accumulate the millions of gold ( adena ) you'll need for good armor and 
 weapons, and watching your level go up by the tenth's of percents that it does.
  
  Castle Sieges are pretty exciting and unique, and bring something new to the table. Again though, 
 to participate you'll need to be in at least a level 3 clan, which requires someone with a massive 
 amount of time to put into the game to be a clan leader. 
  
  If you can handle the obvious time requirements a game like this will demand, then it has a lot 
 to offer, if you are looking for something that you can play for an hour or so at a time, and drop, 
 you might want to look for something else, as you probably will not be satisfied with the progress 
 you make in limited time play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ake_Gamer
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jun 23, 2004 7:05 am PT
Review:  I posted the following on the boards and had several recommendations to submit it as a review:
 
  
  I'm about ready to cancel my account after having played since CB in February of this year. The 
 reasons are many, but let me leave a few thoughts for those who are considering playing L2. My 
 original review of this game was 8.3 and now it is 4.6.
  
  Let's start with the good that will provide playing value for several weeks:
  
  Graphics: Stunning 
 at times. If you start in DE town and see the hand of Shilen, you will know what I mean. Rich attention 
 to details and if your rig can handle the textures, it's really something to see. Several times 
 I've entered a new location and been in awe of the sights.
  
  Size of World: Not too big, not too small. Just right. You are not constrained by the landscape 
 in many cases and can explore. Mountains do provide some form of hierarchy so the new player in 
 the starting area doesn't find themselves in a more advanced area.
  
  Fighting/Magic: I have found the system interesting. The casting animations as well as the melee 
 specials have nice visuals accompanied by either words of mystic derivation or grunts of effort. 
 Some say it doesn't engage them and they can watch TV while hunting, but I have never felt that 
 way.
  
  Monsters: There is a good bit of variety across regions. Some of the models are fantastic. In some 
 cases the same mobs are used with different names for different levels of difficulty. Case in point, 
 the spider, regardless of name is the same model across regions and levels.
  
  And now with the characteristics of the game that I feel are hurting it in the NA market.
  
 
  Culture: Spend some time in the open shout channel and you may be taken back by the language allowed. 
 This game should be rated (M) ature for language alone. Instead it is rated (T) een for violence. 
 Now, that is the community, and not the game, per se, but an MMOG is all about the online community. 
 If you create a community and then don't create rules or police the community, then accept responsibility 
 for what the community does in your persistent world.
  
  More Culture: There are professional organizations working, not playing, on the L2 servers. This 
 is rampant and consistent across the servers. A recent article brought to light the Bartz server 
 in Korea and how pervasive the problem is there. Once again, no rules and no policing of said rules 
 by the persistent world creator. Well, what's the big deal you say? If I told you that these organizations 
 take over low level hunting grounds and verbally harrass new players, would you care? Sure, you'd 
 say, but I can kill them, right? No. They have exploited a game dynamic where they have levelled 
 high enough to get advanced skills and equipment and then delevelled to be able to hunt easier 
 mobs for more in game currency. This is then sold on EBay for USD. Ok, so I can gather a group 
 of my buddies and we can kill them right? No. L2 penalizes the killer, regardless of motive. You 
 are flagged and can drop precious, hard won items when in this state if you are killed. Every other 
 player on the server would be considered a bounty hunter looking for you. It's harsh. So there 
 is no ability for player driven justice because taking up arms against a harrassing, exploiting 
 character will penalize you.
  
  Even More Culture: Asians have incredible work ethics. This may be a generalization yes, but it 
 is my observation and I hope it is not taken in a racist way. I respect such work ethos and is 
 a product of their attention to perfection and their cultural heritage. L2, from NCsoft is a Korean 
 game. It makes you work. The first 15 or so levels are fun and the rewards come quickly, but then 
 you start climbing a mountain. You have to kill hundreds of the same mobs of lesser level than 
 you to be able to afford gear upgrades. This is most efficiently done solo or in duos. While it 
 may be more challenging and fun to kill mobs of equal to higher level, I've seen friends work themselves 
 into holes as eventually they don't have the necessary gear to hunt at their level. The only way 
 to fix this is to take a couple of deaths and then hunt mobs below your level.
  
  Now this farming would be fun if there was some PvP involved or if there was some storyline to 
 pursue to break up the monotony, but there is neither. PvP is nearly eliminated by the system I 
 described above and the 1-2 quests available to you focus around killing a volume of mobs to obtain 
 quest items to be returned to the quest giving NPC. Even the quest engine fosters repetetive hunting.
 
  
  Future State: The long awaited first Chronicle "C1" is due for download this coming Monday June 
 28th. With it will come the Castle Siege engine and PvP arenas. Castle sieging will be limited 
 to the very high level characters 50+ for the first round of sieges as the NPCs who own the castles 
 are very tough and most players will only be spectators. Perhaps characters of levels 40+ can participate 
 in the second round of sieges where it will be PvP, but time will tell. The siege process seems 
 very interesting, but only a small percentage of the server population will participate due to 
 Clan (guild) constraints. Clan's must be ranked and once again it takes an incredible amount of 
 work to do so. PvP Arena's may be fun, but that will be a distracting sport and will not address 
 most of the Culture issues I've detailed above. A super-Boss, Antharas the Dragon will also be 
 available for raids with this C1 release. Once again, only the high level characters will be able 
 to participate.
  
  New high level content will be made available, which sounds great, but currently the high level 
 areas are sparsely populated, so not many will be able to take advantage of it for weeks if not 
 months. New mobs will be available in these regions as well, but being able to hunt them will be 
 a long term goal to the vast majority of players.
  
  In summary, once the nuance of L2 wears off, the clarity of the game shows and it's really a well 
 disguised treadmill. I may hang in for another few weeks to see castle siege, although none of 
 my characters is not high enough level to participate. The highest is 30 and he's been as far North 
 as the Enchanted Valley, for those who currently play. He's hunted 98% greens and light blues and 
 is in half plate +3, square shield, helmet, rip gaunts, boots of power and wields a SoR. I was 
 saving for a complete set of Elven jewelry. I've been on Nurka and Ant Queen raids and have seen, 
 but not fought the Bloody Queen.
  
  MMOG value is evaluated as fun per gaming session. My perception of the NA market is that it plays 
 MMOGs for fun as opposed to other cultures who play to make money or to take over the persistent 
 world. L1 failed in the NA market for a reaons. SB which had great PvP and sieging, but no content 
 to support the storyline is also suffering.
  
  I'm quite down on L2, at the moment, and really thought it had a lot of potential. Sadly, it appears 
 that NCsoft is not listening to the NA player base and doesn't have the resources to enforce their 
 ruleset, which erodes the value of the rules.
  
  I'll think I'll spend my money on something that brings me fun per gaming session.
  
  Constructive 
 comments/arguments are appreciated.
  
  Player of various derivations of Ake de Arregaltania
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pimpester
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 13, 2004 4:40 pm PT
Review:  I don't care what anybody thinks about this game. It is a very good game it is like all games it 
 has problems like C1 patch has not came out yet and u just lvl there is not much to do right now. 
 The game is one of the best MMORPG i have played it has some of the best graphics of any game it 
 is far far better then FF11 in all accounts. PvP is not big right now cuz everybody is getting 
 there character set up how they want it and when the C1 Patch comes out June 28th there will be 
 for People PvPing cuz they are putting in Battle areas and then hte castel sieges will be put in 
 to the game and u really can not say anything about this game until the C1 patch comes out cuz 
 that is when the game will get better so i think everybody should go out and get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xcalibrknight
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 8, 2004 9:23 pm PT
Review:  The bottom line from a long-time MMORPG'er: great graphics, poor content, and even worse customer 
 service. I logged in during closed beta, and that first time (and for a few weeks to come) gave 
 me a sense of "wow" to the look of Aden. However, the wow-factor wears off quickly. The quests 
 are monotonous and boring, and the level grind becomes veeeeeery tedious. It wouldn't be all that 
 bad if there were more monster models, but many times NCSoft just changes the names. You can be 
 fighting a large eye for hours on end through your mid-teens, and again in the late 20's, and again 
 in the 30's (with different names) . This is repeated over and over with just a handful of new monster 
 models every 5-10 levels or so. 
  
  I would have been able to overcome the level grind with a "level playing field" among the players, 
 however adena-duping (around the end of beta) , cheaters using automated bots, and the wide-open 
 adena farming for real life cash was the final nail in the coffin for me. NCSoft's customer support 
 was very bad... poor resonse times and "cookie-cutter" responses to complaints of botters, cheaters, 
 and other game anomolies were commonplace. This, combined with a lack of game content to take your 
 mind off the level grind knocks the game from a good game to a mediocre one, at best.
  
  If you are seriously thinking of moving from Everquest or FFXI to something new, pray that the 
 cheaters, botters, and dupers are being dealt with in Lineage 2.... if not, be prepared to play 
 what I call the "counter-strike" of MMO's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rudolf0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 6, 2004 9:37 am PT
Review:  Lineage 2 is a very good game but like all games it has its flaws. Right now I beleive the worst 
 problem with this game for now is the PvP system. Im not going to explain how this system works 
 b/c most ppl have already said it. I said for no b/c of the Castle Siege update that is comin out 
 this month that i really hope will make the PvP system better and will alow major groups of people 
 to fight one another. The sound is alright but kinda gets repetitve if ur fightin the same monster 
 over abd iver the nusic also is repetitve. The graphics could have been alittle better but they 
 are pretty good the way they are. The gameplay I think is preety good but it is not for the casual 
 MMORPG fan because the whole begining of the game is training by fighting monsters. But behind 
 all that this is a great game for mostly anyfan that really likes MMOROPG 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masaville
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 5, 2004 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Grind, grind, and grind...
  
  There you have it. I picked this title up hoping to get a little more out of it, but unfortunately 
 it's an MMO missing severals key components of a successful MMO.
  
  First off, the negatives. It's a 'massive grind' with little satisfaction at the end. Everyone 
 looks like my character. There are no unique professions such as artisans or crafters. There is 
 no crafting system. You also have to run everywhere because there is no transportation. No mounts 
 or horses. The character generation is too simple with no options. There are no unique items. The 
 items you can buy you can barely afford. PVP is built-in so like it or not, you may get killed 
 and lose XP and items.
  
  On a postive note, the graphics are stellar. The interface is easy to get used to. The sound and 
 music are quite good. Last, but not least, the female characters in the game are super hot, scantily 
 clad vixens! I find it more interesting to check out the female players than to grind for XP.
 
  
  In essence, after 8 hours of gameply I'm questioning what I'm here for. To kill time? I gave this 
 title a fair chance, but it's quite weak. It's missing so many key elements of a top notch MMO, 
 and elements that will keep your interest. After 8 hours, I'm bored silly. My recommendation - 
 save your money because you'll lose interest fast if you've played Everquest, Camelot, or even 
 Galaxies for that matter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentShadow
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 2, 2004 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Lineage II may have had some problems thus far, but it is shaping up to be a wonderful MMORPG. 
 The graphics make this game so enticing and the follow up Chronicle I expansion will be sure to 
 delight players as a slew of new changes to PvP, spells, defense, attack strength and so much more 
 are introduced. Lets not forget that, as promised, NCSoft will be delivering most of the patches 
 that the Korean version of the game has received; putting the North American version just a few 
 weeks behind schedule of the Korean version.
  
  PvP is the games strongest point. At the moment it is the most lacking point of the game, but Chronicle 
 I will be introducing a better PvP system and arenas for EXP lossless fighting. The introduction 
 of castle sieges will be adding a whole new dimension to the game. It will allow level 3+ guilds 
 the chance to own and operate a castle for a period of one week, after the week is up the guild 
 must defend their castle from another guild wanting to invade and possibly take over. At the present 
 state of the game PvP is too focused on death penalties and most players are afraid to attempt 
 major PvP action because the ability to drop high priced items is too great of a risk. This greatly 
 discourages PvP and most people will run or log out of the game altogether to avoid PvP. The expansion 
 will lower the drop and death penalties and in some cases remove all penalties. Hopefully, this 
 will encourage people to partake in PvP contests and arena fighting.
  
  Gameplay overall can get somewhat repetitive, but most MMORPGs will be. Playing as the fighter 
 class can definitely get repetitive with the hack and slash method this class plays by. The fighter 
 class, however, does get a limited set of magic abilities such as drain hp from mobs and players 
 during PvP and a self heal. The mystic class does offer a different perspective of gameplay as 
 this class has lower defense but much higher damage with spells and offers MP bonuses when wearing 
 robe sets and special equipment. The mystics offer a wider range of spells and the healing division 
 of this class is especially useful in groups. Dwarven crafters are the least popular of all the 
 races because of the limited abilities they posses. Other than item looting and some minimal fighter 
 abilities, the only thing Dwarves do are craft items not available in stores. They are the only 
 race that can supply high level equipment and accessories. Dwarves are also responsible for summoning 
 siege golems, a very powerful tool that aids in breaking down castle walls during a siege. 
  
  To say this game is sub-par is actually an insult. The only reason why this game is lacking 
 in some areas is because of the delay in delivery of the long awaited Chronicle I expansion. The 
 player base for the most part is happy with their gaming experience and most plan to stay with 
 the game. This reviewer is extremely happy with his purchase and will continue playing indefinitely. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ceriwaen
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 26, 2004 1:05 am PT
Review:  When I first started playing Lineage II, I was immediately disappointed by the character customization 
 options. After completing my character, I felt a bit like a lemming, running out of town with other 
 people that look exactly like me. However, once I got started I really got into the game itself. 
 Pretty basic point-and-click combat system, with a few skills thrown into the mix for good measure. 
 Which brings me to my next point: there is hardly any creativity in combat, or anything else for 
 that matter. There is one skill per weapon in the lower levels, which means that any other fighters 
 will be using the same combinations in the same sequences as you, and the same goes for the mystics 
 but to a lesser degree.
  
  I think there is too much emphasis on equipment in Lineage II. Each weapon category is far too 
 incremental, meaning that any dagger that costs more to buy than the one you currently wield is 
 better to have, almost hands down. I can't speak for the higher grade equipment, but all I've had 
 to motivate my playing at this point is saving enough money to buy the next piece of equipment 
 I need. For the first twelve levels my online time has been spent thus:
  
  -Kill stuff that gives me a decent amount of money, experience and/or skill points. Do this until 
 I have enough to either buy new skills or equipment.
  -Buy new skills or equipment.
  -Repeat ad infinitum...
  
  I remain hopeful, however, that after the release of the first expansion 
 (Chronicle 1) there will be some more options for style of gameplay, but until then, I don't really 
 plan on paying for a subscription to this game. If you like the basic hack-and-slash game, then 
 this game is for you. Otherwise, well, you might want to hold off at least until the first expansion 
 is released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dhochsta
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 12, 2004 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Lineage II has been released as of 04.28.2004, the open beta period ended on 04.26.2004, thus marks 
 the entry of the second installment of the most popular MMOG. The original lineage boasts a subscriber 
 count of over one million players, whereas the U. S. leader EverQuest boasts a mere 420 thousand.
 
  
  This review covers the open beta period from 04.10.2004 - 04.26.2004. 
  
  Lineage II has a popular history behind it, many people have played the first series, but the game 
 was never very popular in the U. S. NCSoft is hoping to change that with the release of Lineage 
 II. 
  
  However, the game in my opinion will be only moderately successful. The product has some severe 
 translation issues, from its roots in the Korean development. For players who are not open to minor 
 anomalies, these will drive the players into one of the upcoming games such as World of WarCraft, 
 EverQuest II, or one of the myriad of other MMOG games in development. 
  
  The graphical quality of Lineage II is superb. The sound engineering is only average at best. The 
 interface design is poor, in terms of the translation to the U. S. market. When compared to other 
 existing MMOG games the interface fails horribly. 
  
  The game play is smooth, however for those who only have a little bit of time to play, they will 
 be quickly drowned out by the power gamers. The level grind in Lineage II is massive and based 
 upon comparisons of other players double that of EverQuest. 
  
  However, that does not mean there is not entertainment to be found for those who play less often. 
 The early levels breeze by and quests can help you to attain wealth and items. 
  
  Some of the strengths of Lineage are yet to come features and game enhancements, such as castle 
 sieges, dragon mounts, and clan warfare. Lineage II does not have a non-player player killer features 
 or flags. This means that any player can attack another player if they so choose. 
  
  However, there are some design mechanics in place, which will help to curb rampant griefer abuse. 
 As players attack other players, their name changes from white to purple, then once they have killed 
 their first player their name will change to red. This signals them as a player killer The society 
 in the beta was such that any red players will killed on sight. Usually by a gang of other players. 
 For a white player to kill a red is not negatively affected. Thus, it is possible to police the 
 lands to some level.
  
  One other aspect some players will not like is that experience and levels are not locked in; when 
 you die you loose experience. Thus far it has been 10% penalty, yet 10% at level 20 is much greater 
 than 10% at level 5, thus again players who cannot spend large amounts of time in game will suffer 
 more than those who can play more often.
  
  The player who decides to kill others and gets flagged as red, must be able to fight to stay alive 
 and often against a mob of other players. Failure to do so will loose them experience and levels. 
 Thus is the natural transition of the game. As one plays the game, joins a guild/clan and advances 
 the game play will shift from Player-vs.-critter combat to player-vs.-player combat. 
  
  Some of the Quirks
  
  The interface was designed for the Korean font face, thus the English 
 text wraps in odd places with the default layout.
  
  The NPC text translations have common translation defects and were not properly re-written nor 
 the U. S. market. 
  
  The economy in lineage is vastly inflated with many common items selling for hundreds of thousands 
 of Adena. As the game advances once released, inflation will only continue further. 
  
  GUI or Front End Feedback is non-existent or is not helpful. 
  
  There is no name filter and 
 no control to non-genre specific names (This is a failing of nearly every MMOG on that planet) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Liquid214
Rating: 5.8
Date: May 11, 2004 11:12 pm PT
Review:  I pretty much agree with this ----------- "Lineage 2 is a game with a really great potential, unfortunately 
 some of the gamers around the world just trash the fun to get real money and make the game go down 
 the toilet. Lin2 is not all that bad of a game, surely some of us old RPG'ers and MMORPG vets know 
 that grinding, leveling and gathering resources is one of the common tasks to finally form a clan 
 and have great clan wars. But Lineage 2 have become the cheaters, exploiters and botters game by 
 excellence. 
  
  Gameplay is not bad at all, maybe a little bit to harsh to level up and get the cash to buy the 
 next weapon or armor, but when you finally get the hang of it, is not that difficult, maybe repetitive 
 and sometimes boring, but most of the games have their share of this. 
  
  
  The real problem comes with exploiters and botters. The game is plagued with groups of "gamers" 
 that take the game as work. The farm and farm in game money to sell in some very known auction 
 websites. Of course, other players go and buy this money from them, making the game's economy system 
 go to hell. You see a lot of new players running around with weapons and armor not suited for their 
 level. Also lots of gamers act in an extremely rude manner, camping areas for the profit, invading 
 monsters needed for questing, and destroying the game experience. 
  
  
  All of this is cause mainly by NC Soft, who doesn't want to listen to the complaints of real players, 
 or just don't care. It would be very easy to ask the auction sites to stop permitting the in game 
 currency to be sold for real money (as the EULA of the game stated) , and even take some legal action 
 against the websites, because that in game money is really intellectual property of NC Soft. 
 
  
  
  The graphics really are great, mostly because is based on the Unreal engine, the sound is not bad, 
 but the botting and exploiting just send everything down the drain, plus the most flawed PvP system 
 ever seen in a MMORPG destroy the game completly. 
  
  
  Save your money for World of Warcraft, believe me, this is not a bad game, but bad gamers make 
 it worthless. Sorry NC, lots of American Players won't be on, mainly because of the problems that 
 you don't want to address properly."
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CyberFreak81
Rating: 9
Date: May 10, 2004 6:36 am PT
Review:  I hear a lot of bad reviews that complain about losing levels and items in pvp battles, which make 
 leveling hard. I chose not to worry about that. Thinking of it more as a challenge. You'll have 
 a lot more control over your characters moves, unlike other MMORPG's, in order to evade attacks. 
 The game is meant to be played with other people, to help eachother. Such as, having healers, tanks, 
 and everything between. Of course, if you chose to play by yourself, you'll soon become an easy 
 target, and want to add a low review score on this site. Though working together will get you far, 
 and make the game a lot more fun. Look for clans that are serious about the RPG element, to make 
 the game experience better. Because goofing too much jus gets you nowhere. The more people play 
 the game the right way, as a "RPG", the better the games get. Oh, and I'm sure there where thiefs 
 in fantasy time that mugged people evry once and a while. Sooner or later players like that will 
 realise more people will be working together, becoming out numbered. Then they'll want to start 
 joining clans.
  
  Graphically the game is much better than previous MMORPG's.
  
  The sountrack is epic and great,
  
  Gameplay is fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArroyoJR
Rating: 4.4
Date: May 5, 2004 11:57 am PT
Review:  Lineage 2 is a game with a really great potential, unfortunately some of the gamers around the 
 world just trash the fun to get real money and make the game go down the toilet. Lin2 is not all 
 that bad of a game, surely some of us old RPG'ers and MMORPG vets know that grinding, leveling 
 and gathering resources is one of the common tasks to finally form a clan and have great clan wars. 
 But Lineage 2 have become the cheaters, exploiters and botters game by excellence.
  
  Gameplay is not bad at all, maybe a little bit to harsh to level up and get the cash to buy the 
 next weapon or armor, but when you finally get the hang of it, is not that difficult, maybe repetitive 
 and sometimes boring, but most of the games have their share of this.
  
  The real problem comes with exploiters and botters. The game is plagued with groups of "gamers" 
 that take the game as work. The farm and farm in game money to sell in some very known auction 
 websites. Of course, other players go and buy this money from them, making the game's economy system 
 go to hell. You see a lot of new players running around with weapons and armor not suited for their 
 level. Also lots of gamers act in an extremely rude manner, camping areas for the profit, invading 
 monsters needed for questing, and destroying the game experience.
  
  All of this is cause mainly by NC Soft, who doesn't want to listen to the complaints of real players, 
 or just don't care. It would be very easy to ask the auction sites to stop permitting the in game 
 currency to be sold for real money (as the EULA of the game stated) , and even take some legal action 
 against the websites, because that in game money is really intellectual property of NC Soft.
  
  The graphics really are great, mostly because is based on the Unreal engine, the sound is not 
 bad, but the botting and exploiting just send everything down the drain, plus the most flawed PvP 
 system ever seen in a MMORPG destroy the game completly.
  
  Save your money for World of Warcraft, believe me, this is not a bad game, but bad gamers make 
 it worthless. Sorry NC, lots of American Players won't be on, mainly because of the problems that 
 you don't want to address properly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vorcoth
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 5, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  Simply stated, this is a graphically-stunning game that has a few minor annoyances but will only 
 get better and better over time. Since I first wrote this review, there have been 2 major expansions/updates 
 to the game that addressed, corrected and/or upgraded several issues.
  
  It's very easy to pass Lineage II off as yet another kill, wait to heal, kill some more, rinse, 
 repeat mmorpg if you've only played it for a few hours. The depth of the game can only fully be 
 realized once you've gotten your character up into your first Profession Change (at 20th level) .
 
  
  Gameplay Positives:
  The skill and class progressions are quite well-developed and, depending on race, branch out into 
 specializations that add further layers of class-specific strategy. The game is wide open for more 
 classes and skills being added with expansion sets. Combat is much more attractive than in other 
 mmorpg's, in that a) It's the best 3rd-person perspective of any mmog, and b) the skills you can 
 choose from add a distinct feel of strategy and involvement in the fight, rather than just clicking 
 your mouse and sitting back to watch the fight unfold.
  
  The really intriguing aspects of the gameplay occur when you get into the clan system, where a 
 large mass of characters can group together to perform clan-specific quests, or even storm castles! 
 Once in control of a castle, your clan can set the npc leaders of the town or lead it themselves, 
 and begin hauling in profits and resources that the castle produces! Clans also have clan-specific 
 skills and abilities not available to solo adventurers, and you can open chapter houses in more 
 than one location in order to recruit new members.
  
  The PvP in this game is excellent and "realistic", by which I mean that killing another player 
 actually has in-game consequences. Character names all appear above their heads in white. Attacking 
 another "white" player, causes your name to change purple as a warning to the attacker. Killing 
 that player changes your name to red. Any white player may attack and kill any red player without 
 fear of themselves turning red. In other words, PK'ers are open season for anyone. Death also comes 
 with roughly a 5-8% exp loss, and the slim chance to drop a piece of equipment (including anything 
 you have equipped/worn) PK'ing also increases your level of karma. The higher your karma rating, 
 the more likely you are to drop equipment (which is extremely expensive in Lineage 2) upon dying. 
 As far as I'm concerned, this system of PvP is brilliant. In addition, for those wishing to try 
 out/hone their PK skills without fear of penalization, Lineage 2 has instituted dueling arenas 
 where anyone can go and kill/be killed without fear of equipment/exp loss.
  
  The level grind, which used to be insanely difficult, especially after 20th level has been sped 
 up somewhat, so that level 20-30 is now reasonable, but still challenging. The real reason that 
 L2 makes levelling take so long is the fact that each kill provides Skill Points, that you then 
 use to purchase skill upgrades, or brand new skills (which become available every 4-7 levels, depending 
 on character class) . In order to save up enough Skill Points, you need to do a lot of killing/questing.
 
  
  The choices in face, hair style, and hair colour have improved with each expansion, and Lineage 
 2 considerately allows pre-existing characters to alter their appearance should they desire to 
 take advantage of the new options.
  
  Dragons (available as pets/mounts) in the game have now reached the level where they are wingless, 
 and can be used as mounts. Owning pets (you can also have a wolf) is a mixed blessing. They will 
 fight beside you and carry extra things for you, but you must keep them fed, armoured and happy, 
 which can get costly. It's a very nicely balanced system. Rumours about the upcoming expansion 
 state that Dragons will be able to be levelled up into a winged flying mount, complete with breath 
 attacks, that can be used in castle sieges.
  
  The language filters are constantly being tweaked and improved in order to strain out all of the 
 childing cursing and swearing.
  
  Gameplay Negatives:
  A few very annoying factors are the only things holding this game back, but should vastly improve 
 as the development team releases further tweaks and patches and downloads (the 3rd major update 
 is scheduled for June 05) . The level grind in the game is still quite challenging, but no longer 
 absurdly difficult. Still, it's no where near as rapid as the advancement in such games as Everquest 
 2 and World of Warcraft. Then again, who wants to max out their character in a matter of weeks 
 anyway?
  
  The real drawbacks to this game are two things: The in-game player-driven economy, and the lack 
 of rewarding quests.
  
  The best pieces of armour and weapons available in Lineage 2 are only available as monster-drops 
 or by crafting them. Crafting is quite time-consuming. Not only do you need to hunt down the ridiculous 
 number of materials required to create even the lowliest piece of equipment, but you'll often be 
 sacrificing time that could have been spent levelling and/or farming money. In addition, only dwarves 
 can craft, which makes the process even that much more constricted. Due to the time it takes to 
 collect materials and create items, the cost of those items once ready for sale is immense. There 
 are no NPC shops that offer these higher level pieces of equipment for sale.
  
  As a result, the in-game economy has become so out-of-control, that items normally sell for anywhere 
 from 2x - 4x their actual worth, due to the commitment necessary in their creation. As a side note, 
 money drops have been increased to reflect this, but the process is still wildly out-of-control, 
 with no hope in sight. Top equipment from level 20-40 will usually cost you in the vicinity of 
 2-4 million. And that's only if you plan on getting the best stuff for that range as soon as you 
 hit 20th level, otherwise you'll slowly upgrade your various pieces over time as you level, meaning 
 you can add another million or two onto that original estimate. Considering that each kill gains 
 you anywhere from 100-500, you do the math. At higher levels, you're looking at least that much 
 (3 to 6 million) for each piece!
  
  As for quests, the system for undertaking quests in Lineage 2 is one of the best I've seen to date. 
 Unfortunately, there simply aren't anywhere near enough quests in the game yet. In addition, the 
 rewards for completing quests barely constitute being labelled as rewards. The game still needs 
 quests that will hand out high-level equipment, large sums of money or large sums of exp as rewards 
 for completion.
  
  I am stil quite upset at the overall lack of any over-riding nationalism or politics in-game. I 
 mean, why institute a background and history for your game world if you have no intention of "enforcing" 
 it? Why set up dark elves and orcs as villains, if you fully intend for everyone to run around 
 being happy and friendly talking about their real life jobs and significant others? Why establish 
 a war between the major factions of each nation/continent if you intend for everyone to want to 
 be each other's happy friends? (Then again, this is my biggest complaint for all mmorpg's. If there 
 is no roleplaying, simply the ability to tweak your skills and such, then wake up people - it's 
 not a true roleplaying game. Ugh)
  
  I'm also still a little miffed that NCsoft has yet to implement naming conventions for the game. 
 So the game is still plagued with moron teenagers named IAmAwesome, and oOYouStinkOo.
  
  Botting (software-driven automated characters that camp locations, farm money and kill-steal) is 
 still an issue, but only in so far that it affects the in-game economy by allowing players to purchase 
 money and equipment on ebay. If you're willing to accept the state of the economy, then botting 
 isn't really that big an issue. Besides, almost every mmog has problems with botting and such.
 
  
  Graphics Positive:
  The graphics, using the Unreal engine, are absolutely stunning. The sky-scapes, water effects, 
 buildings, monsters and terrain are the most lush and realistic I've ever seen in a computer game. 
 In addition, the characters look really good, though there is a distinct anime influence. Character 
 graphics, and game graphics in general, are lightyears better than every other mmo on the market.
 
  
  Graphics Negative:
  Some may be turned off by the anime-style (Main developers for the game are Korean) look of the 
 characters (the female dwarf is the most extreme case, most male characters can't have facial hair 
 etc. etc.) , but it's not so blatant that it detracts from the fantasy feel.
  
  Sound Positive: Getting a well-established composer, and making use of the Seattle Symphony was 
 a genius stroke. The use of choirs and haunting vocals is an absolutely brilliant addition to the 
 already gorgeous score.
  
  Sound Negative: My only complaint here is that the gorgeous soundtrack doesn't play all the time, 
 and I'd love to hear even more of the several existing tracks.
  
  Value Positive: The sounds and visuals alone make this game stand way above its competitors. It 
 easily has every other MMO on the market beat in the graphics department. Every expansions for 
 the game is FREE!!!!
  
  Value Negative: If you can stick it out long enough to make the money you'll need for the ridiculously 
 over-priced equipment, then this MMORPG is easily the most challenging and enjoyable one available.
 
  
  Tilt: Having been a computer gamer since Telengard and Pirates! on the Commodore64, and Pike's 
 Peak on the Texas Instruments-99, I've played more than my fair share of computer rpg's. The mmorpg 
 was just the natural evolution, the next stage of which will hopefully include as much roleplaying 
 as monster-killing and lewt-collection. Lineage II is by far the best I've played yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-renderer
Rating: 4.3
Date: May 3, 2004 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Another typical old style fight-and-rest MMORPG...
  
  Game play:
  Moving character around has been the most annoying. You click where you want your character to 
 go, then it runs there, simple. This works well in a 2D or isomatric view games but is very annoying 
 in a 3D environment. Where there's hills, stairs, buildings, fence, who know what, not only you 
 can't click on the ground, your character will always run straight to where you click and if there's 
 obstacles, you'll get stuck and try to run through it like an idiot.
  
  It also conflicts with it's own target system where you click your mouse on the monsters. The targetting 
 system is so precise that if you miss your enemy by 1 pixel, you're instead clicking on the ground, 
 which makes your charcter runs right into it!
  
  Graphic:
  This game has a very nice asian manga style design. If you like asian-japanese style character 
 design, you'll love it. Characters look great, females are cute, and a very nice armor design. 
 Landscape and cities are also nice and rich.
  
  Animation however is another story... character movement looks so so, and in some case looks stupid 
 and robotic. You character really look the best when they are just standing still doing nothing.
 
  
  Sounds: Sure got a nice music and ambient. especially cities' theme matches the environment totally. 
 There's no battle music which makes the game pretty lonely while hunting however.
  
  Conclusion, this game's best aspect is it's graphic if you're into japanese style design. The game 
 play is not very insteresting. You'll spent tons of time sitting and resting your hitpoint/mana 
 between almost every battle, do the same quest over and over for money and live through another 
 levelling/farming fes, the same ol' stuff you've been doing for 5 years in every single MMORPG 
 out there. If you're just looking for another MMORPG and expect nothing new in your life, go ahead 
 and try this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firewings
Rating: 8
Date: May 3, 2004 1:16 am PT
Review:  The leveling grind is very hard for this game, which may turn down alot of casual players. But 
 the real fun of the game comes when you start to build on join a clan, this game is not for solo 
 playing. No matter how rich or powerful you are, there are nothing you can accomplish along. 
 
  
  Go ahead and try this game, you'll love it. That's if you don't mind hours of farming for moneys 
 and hunting for slow leveling....
  
  A lot of server is very popluated, and thanks for the level gap everyone will have a chance to 
 catch up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trigunflame
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 2, 2004 10:40 pm PT
Review:  I'll go ahead and say, the reason this game has got a lot of bad press is due to the fact many 
 many noobs, who want everything quickly and nothing to show for it.
  
  This game is for hardcore RPG's who like to feel rewarded when they earn something, something that 
 takes time to get, involving patience as well as being able to conserve the money you make in the 
 game. This difference between other games, makes the user feel proud of what hes accomplished after 
 hes done it, and thats what seperates him from the other people who dont have it.
  
  Sure, there is a lot of grinding in the game; but thats the best part, who would want to play a 
 game where you could get to the level cap and have the best stuff in a matter of weeks?? Why would 
 you even bother playing the game online? You would just be sitting around talking, cause you could 
 kill everything and have no challenges. That is what makes this game unique, its always gonna be 
 expanded and its made so that you have to work harder and harder to level up, if you do party play 
 or work inside your clan, it makes thing go a Lot faster then soloing - so keep that in mind.
 
  
  The character looks are being expanded in the further chronicles of the game (I believe they have 
 16 expansion updates : free of charge) that will be added to the game through the months, added 
 new skills, quests and items.
  
  The class system is great in this game, right now they have added the 2nd level classes which really 
 branch off into many unique fighting styles, making it so that your clan will be able to have a 
 vast amount of unique players increasing its vastness and strength.
  
  The music in this game is pretty good, very relaxing I must say. It almost makes you want to fall 
 asleep sometimes because of it being so soothing; hopefully in further updates they will further 
 expand the amounts of scores in the game.
  
  Overall I would say Buy this game and play it, if you like to be rewarded and not get bored by 
 beating every game you play Easy, then this is the game to Get. However if you like everything 
 done easy, want to make money ultra fast, want to level very fast, then this is sadly not the game 
 for you.
  
  -- Trigunflame
  - aka. Dusty Burns 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boomerx
Rating: 3.8
Date: May 2, 2004 4:14 pm PT
Review:  the pvp player kills this game you just be walking around an boom your dead then you lose a level 
 or a weapon u payed alot for! makeing you have no way of ever going to far in the game. i'm no 
 newbe i know games and pvp kills this game. Tell me where the sport is in that? at least ask somebody 
 to fight you. i was in the beta . another thing is everyone looks the same quest seemed very boreing 
 run around kill foxies or wolfs for 3hours. there is too much reading . the graphics are the some 
 of the best & sound, but in the end it's just another online rpg with nothing to offer! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
