-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Line of Sight: Vietnam
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/lineofsightvietnam/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 21, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.5, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 189 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Nfusion
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date:     Mar 5, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Line of Sight is something of a one-trick pony -- the game doesn't offer much more than its stealth-based 
 gameplay. 

  With its last two games, Deadly Dozen and last year's Deadly Dozen: Pacific Theater, developer 
 nFusion proved itself to be exceptionally good at creating solid, reasonably priced tactical shooters. 
 Line of Sight: Vietnam, nFusion's latest title, is something of a step back for what could unofficially 
 be considered a series. It fixes some of the technical problems in Pacific Theater, and though 
 it's certainly not a bad game, Line of Sight: Vietnam isn't as ambitious as Deadly Dozen: Pacific 
 Theater, and its environments aren't as interesting.           Line of Sight offers some believable 
 jungle environments.    

  Line of Sight's gameplay is more or less completely focused on stealth. Because of the dense foliage 
 of the jungle setting, the realistic damage model, and the accuracy of the enemy soldiers, you'll 
 spend most of your time crawling on your belly through the underbrush, attempting to snipe opponents 
 before they spot you. Clearing levels is an often tense, painstaking process of inching forward 
 and then stopping every few feet to scan the horizon for enemies hidden in the trees. It's almost 
 like a leaf-green-hued game version of Where's Waldo?, except that Waldo will shoot you in the 
 forehead if you don't find him before he finds you.   

  As in Pacific Theater, nFusion's proprietary graphics engine does a great job of creating a believable 
 jungle environment. The levels are huge and filled with plenty of rocks, trees, and plants to provide 
 cover. You get a real sense of both being hidden and engaging hidden enemies. Spotting camouflaged 
 opponents is ultimately the game's primary challenge. Because of this, even though the game lets 
 you use up to 12 different weapons, the sniper rifle is the one you'll end up using in virtually 
 every situation.   

  Line of Sight creates a lot of tension, and you may find yourself constantly having trouble deciding 
 whether you should poke your head out of the underbrush for a better view, or stay safely on your 
 stomach. But it also too often crosses the fine line that separates enjoyable tension from frustration -- it's 
 not uncommon to be suddenly killed by an unseen enemy. The game does have an option to lower the 
 amount of damage done by gunfire, allowing you to absorb a lot more punishment before dying, but 
 doing so unfortunately also makes enemies considerably more difficult to defeat. On the "arcade" 
 damage level, opponents can often withstand three or four headshots before going down. Neither 
 damage option is entirely satisfying.   

  But Line of Sight's biggest problem is a distinct lack of variety. Pacific Theater offered missions 
 that took place in cities, jungles, and snowbound enemy bases, just to name a few. Line of Sight, 
 on the other hand, consists of 12 similar missions all set in virtually identical jungle environments. 
 While the similarity between levels may be true to the game's theme, you may start getting tired 
 of it once you reach the fifth or sixth seemingly interchangeable level. Also, Line of Sight doesn't 
 have the drivable vehicles that were so enjoyable to use in nFusion's previous game. In fact, other 
 than an occasional helicopter flying overhead and a few decorative trucks, there are no vehicles, 
 drivable or otherwise, at all. The orchestral score is excellent, though this is due in large part 
 to the fact that much of the music is recycled from Pacific Theater. Line of Sight has squad control, 
 but unlike Pacific Theater, which let you command four-man squads, Line of Sight pairs you with 
 only a single partner. This is actually a shame, because the game actually seems to improve upon 
 the notoriously unreliable pathfinding of the developer's previous games.           Gameplay primarily 
 consists of spotting enemies before they spot you.    

  Line of Sight includes a surprisingly complete set of multiplayer options. The game has deathmatch, 
 team deathmatch, capture the flag, and a mission-based attack-and-defend mode. You can also play 
 the entire single-player campaign cooperatively. While none of this is groundbreaking (though the 
 co-op mode is arguably a feature that should be included in more games) , Line of Sight's multiplayer 
 code is generally solid and is an improvement on Pacific Theater's.   

  Line of Sight is something of a one-trick pony -- the game doesn't offer much more than its stealth-based 
 gameplay. However, that gameplay is challenging enough to carry the rest of the game, especially 
 considering its modest price tag. It's just unfortunate that Line of Sight doesn't measure up to 
 nFusion's previous games.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Luigi8243
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 5, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  I found this game at some book store like 5 years ago for just $4, so I thought what the hell, 
 I'll buy it. I was surprised. This game has a lot of aspects that I love in fps games. For instance, 
 there are plenty of weapons, a multiplayer co-op mode, night-vision, a commandable partner, and 
 awesome jungle environments. The biggest problem for this game is that the enemy AI are just too 
 good. While this is realistic, it can make the game frustrating as a sniper can pick you off even 
 when he's far off and behind trees that he can't possibly see through. The game is very difficult, 
 even on easy mode, and the only way to get through it, if you don't take hours carefully crawling 
 everywhere, is to quicksave often. But, this does keep you on your toes and prevents the game from 
 being a run through and mercilessly shoot whatever moves type of game. A lot of review say that 
 the missions are repetitive and get old fast, but I don't feel that way when I play it. Yes, most 
 of the missions are played in dense underbrush, but the landscapes are interestingly different 
 in each mission and you are pretty free on how you move around each level. I'm not big on playing 
 multiplayer with fps games, but it is fun and adds a good amount of replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaotixGTX
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 7, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Vietnam games are kinda one-sided. You're in a jungle, you have to disrupt Vietcong plans for assault 
 OR find the documents describing the assault, save some helicopter team that was shot down, escort 
 a VP, and win.
  That's pretty much what this game is about.
  
  From the first mission you can tell the gameplay isn't all that exciting. The lush jungle surroundings 
 hide only a very few Vietcong soldiers and never really adds to the excitement, since they go down 
 in only a few shots depending on what damage option you have set. I don't understand why this game 
 is considered stealth. Since every enemy you see sees you first. Regardless of whether you are 
 behind a rock, tree, or bush. The teammate AI is somewhat of a completely basic intelligence. He'll 
 spot the enemy for you if you hanve't already killed him in two seconds. Or he'll fire at an enemy 
 closing in on you if you're in sniper mode. Either way, by the end of it, you have the most kills.
 
  
  The levels are quite fun actually: large playing fields with multiple routes and pathways to get 
 lost in. Except if you get lost you're an idiot. Getting turned around though is something I think 
 everyone does at one point. The jungle environment can get tiresome from walking around in it all 
 the time. So they threw in some small farms, rivers, and huts to vary it up a little. Problem is 
 these things are still in the middle of the jungle. Don't get me wrong; it's nice to play in such 
 large areas with so many things on the screen at the same time. But it's just so bland that you 
 no longer pay attention to whether or not a waterfall is there. And rocks are no problem to ascend 
 over: just walk over them. You COULD jump over them, but there is no jumping in this game.
  
  The sound is something you might as well not pay attention to. I did at first, but I came to 
 the conclusion that it's not worth it. So I just put some music on. I can't remember what the sound 
 is like but the voice acting was at least ok.
  
  The first time I played it I got way too annoyed by about the 5th level. So I turned the cheats 
 on. With the codes entered, you can walk through the rest of the game with no problem without even 
 firing a shot, unless specified to clear an area out. The value for this game is not something 
 large. Good thing there's online play. I have yet to try it out but I may in the future.
  
  I got this game from my cousin who beat it in two weeks, even though his schedule was full at the 
 time he did so. Meaning this game takes you a little less than 8 hours to complete. 3 hours with 
 cheats. But there's something about this game, a certain charm, that makes me keep it in my collection. 
 So it might stay for a while longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FormadaGames
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 5, 2007 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Although Erik's review is really good, I thought I would add my point of view. True the graphics 
 may be somewhat disappointing, but overall I really liked the game. It sort of puts you in Nam. 
 The controls can be manually set to your preference, so control of the game is really no problem; 
 you can learn how to get around easy enough. The game is a must for war fanatics, or at least in 
 my opinion. The game glitches sometimes when you go into scope mode. I have often lined up a shot, 
 and though it was dead on, I would miss. This usually occurs only online play though. That brings 
 me to my next thought, Online play is really cool. My friends and I ruled for a long time, then 
 came the cheats. I emptied three M60 clips into an enemy, and he turns around and kills me with 
 a dagger.... Overall, you should play the game, but keep in mind, I wouldn't recommend paying more 
 than five American dollars for it. (Note: I can complete the entire game on hard mode in about 
 three hours with out dying. Once you play it once, you learn the levels really well....) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splintercell_75
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 2, 2006 8:54 am PT
Review:  After getting used to this game, the tension slowly but surely builds up. The first thing about 
 this game is getting used to the size of the enemy. In other shooters such as Soldier of Fortune 
 and the like the enemy is considerably noticable. However, in Line of Sight Vietnam the enemy is 
 very well camouflaged into the surroundings and when viewing them from a great distance them seem 
 very small and inconspicuous. Further this game definitely relies on the elements of stealth and 
 surprise to complete the objectives and get to the extraction point. For those of you who are into 
 sniping. You'll have to wait at least until the second or third mission until you acquire a sniper 
 rifle and then after that head shots and throat shots are the way to go. Speaking for myself nothing 
 really beats the satisfaction of seeing your enemy choking on his own blood plus the fact that 
 it is a silent kill =) . The plot is quite good and the missions are quite challenging. Make sure 
 you save frequently because I can assure you that you'll taste alot of lead in this game. I bought 
 this game for less than $10 AUD second hand and I can tell you I definitely got value for money. 
 Get this game, burn the mid night lamp and give no sleep to your eyes until you complete your mission 
 soldier! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grantcorp
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 4, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  Line of Sight offers the cliched tale of an army sniper on his second tour of duty, mixed in with 
 some actual war footage for cut scenes. This together with some believable missions adds a lot 
 to the gameplay atmosphere. So does the fact that the vegetation is quite lush, offering dense 
 foliage for you to crawl through. Gameplay is pretty solid apart from some stupid AI glitches but 
 it doesn't hurt this game more than any other in the same genre. The only annoying bug is that 
 my AI partner would often have me killed since his anxiousness to combat the enemy often led him 
 to shoot me in the back.
  
  Missions play more or less the same. You're dropped in one corner of the map and then you are tasked 
 with getting to the (usually) opposite corner performing one or two objectives along the way. I 
 find that one or two missions is more than enough in one sitting, as it tends to get kind of samey 
 after a while. All in all a rather good game, as long as it is consumed in healthy doses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pad69
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 19, 2004 7:28 am PT
Review:  I played this game to the end cursing it almost all the way because I do not give up easy. I get 
 tired of AI's shooting from behind rocks when there is now way they could see me. Nor is there 
 a clear line of sight HA HA get it.
  
  Well I did and more than once. Ak's must be the GOD guns. VC must see like eagles in the dark. 
 I guess enough said you get the picture.
  
  What did I like. Well the idea was good, the graphics were done well, the sound was appropriate, 
 movement of play and especially the weapons choices and the ability to cary only a certain amount 
 of weight I liked. A good variety of missions and the ability to multiplay.
  
  They could have made this game great! Why oh why is it that this happens almost every time with 
 games like this. Over all I had to give it a little better score.
  I sure think if you want to try this game buy cheap real cheap and be warned!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrGabriel
Rating: 6.6
Date: Sep 3, 2003 2:47 pm PT
Review:  ACtually not a bad game in principal. Just gets really tedious really quickly. As is often the 
 case the designers have gone for the "lets make the bad guys prescient, unerringly accurate and 
 not constrained by actually having to shoot round physical objects" option to make the game difficult. 
 Have just finished a missioninvolving a starlight scope that I "am lucky to have packed". Why? 
 The bad guys clearly don't need one. My team mate clearly doesn't need one. Actually why I've bothered 
 with a sniper rifle at all is unclear - all I need is to pick up one of those "hit anything at 
 2000 yds" variant AK47s that all the bad guys use.... you get the picture. Having said that there's 
 lots of atmosphere and tension generated by the slow creeping through the jungle, good stuff with 
 good and bad guys blending into the jungle at really short range and lots of surprises (such as 
 "how the hell could they hit me from that range in the dark with a an AK47?") . Overall probably 
 worth (ish) the 20 I aid for it, but not much more and certainly doesn't do much that Vietcong 
 doesn't do better - although seems less buggy. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
