-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Lineage: The Blood Pledge
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/lineagethebloodpledge/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  9, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 6.5, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 82 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: NCsoft
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Oct 24, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Lineage looks and plays like a much older game, and unless you can drum up some fake nostalgia, 
 you most likely won't make it past the free trial period. 

 Lineage is a straightforward and simple online role-playing game. It's also, inexplicably, the most 
 popular online role-playing game in the world, with more than a million subscribers worldwide. 
 While its developers aspire to compete with Dark Age of Camelot or EverQuest, Lineage would sit 
 more comfortably between Ultima Online and Diablo II; it looks like the former and plays like a 
 simplified version of the latter. And though it has some interesting features, and its developers 
 do a good job of expanding and adding to the world, Lineage seems dated. It looks old, it plays 
 poorly, and its opening levels are so frustrating that there's a good chance you'll never make 
 it to the interesting stuff.           Lineage looks like Ultima Online...    

  Lineage's theme is simplicity. There are only four character classes in Lineage -- elves, knights, 
 princes, and wizards. Each has male and female models. There are six statistics you can adjust 
 when you create your character, and the game does a good job of explaining how each statistic affects 
 a character's abilities. Knights are the pure fighters, wizards the pure magic users, and princes 
 and elves are hybrids with fighting and magic abilities. Princes (or princesses) are the only characters 
 that can create blood pledges, Lineage's equivalent of guilds.   

  Once you create your character, you give him or her a name, and Lineage has no naming restrictions, 
 so prepare to see lots of names like "KoolGye3" and "Legoluuss." Then you start off in the world. 
 Starting out varies a bit from character to character. As an elf, you must get all of your experience 
 by fighting. Other classes have a slightly easier time. They can go to training areas and whack 
 on dummies until they reach level four. Once you begin fighting real monsters, you'll notice Lineage's 
 biggest problem: The combat system is terrible. Melee fighting consists of repeatedly clicking 
 on monsters. So does ranged fighting. Magic consists of selecting a spell, then repeatedly clicking 
 on monsters. Lineage takes its combat model from Diablo but doesn't include the fun. It's slow 
 and repetitive, and the US servers can be so laggy that it's often impossible to tell what exactly 
 is happening. Are you winning? Are you losing? The game's poor animation and the complete lack 
 of combat descriptions won't let you know. Often, you'll get a text message that the monster is 
 dead, but the combat will continue onscreen for a few seconds.           ... and plays like Diablo 
 II.    

  When you die, Lineage assesses an additional penalty. Not only do you lose experience and health, 
 as in other online RPGs, but you also lose a randomly selected item from your inventory. This can 
 be a cheap item like a candle or a chunk of meat, or it can be an expensive weapon or piece of 
 armor you spent a long time saving up for or putting together. One of Lineage's more interesting 
 features is that you can build equipment by collecting various items and bringing them to the appropriate 
 character. For elves, this method is the only way to get new items, and it involves a bizarre scavenger 
 hunt system in which you wander through the forest punching friendly monsters in the stomach until 
 they give you what you need.   

  Once you get past the difficult opening, Lineage gets more interesting. The world is vast, and 
 the developers add more to it on a regular basis. There are regular events, broken into episodes, 
 which add new content to the game's world. Joining a blood pledge lets you participate in sieges, 
 and if your pledge controls a castle it will earn money from nearby towns. The siege element gave 
 Lineage its big publicity push: Lord British of Ultima fame has an association with the game and 
 made a brief appearance some time back during one of the sieges. But he seems to have gone AWOL, 
 and there are no indications of what his future association with the game will be.          
   Lineage's world is cluttered, and its residents are poorly animated.    

  But even though getting to higher levels holds a few benefits, the game's fundamental problems 
 remain the same. The combat is still bad at higher levels. There is very little motivation to get 
 to elite levels, and even the superficial reasons other like-minded games give you (such as good-looking 
 armor and equipment) are nonexistent. The highest-level knight looks the same as the lowest level. 
 All the character classes have only two models, male and female. Your weapon may change. Bladed 
 weapons, bows, and axes look different, but there are only generic models for each type. A dagger 
 looks the same as a broadsword.   

  Lineage doesn't look much better in other respects. The game's world is cluttered and hard to see. 
 The graphics don't look much better than those in Ultima Online. The animations are simple; most 
 of them consist of only two or three distinct frames. Seeing a dog doing little backflips as it 
 attacks you is silly. The audio is equally simple, consisting of nondescript music and sparse sound 
 effects.           Lineage's combat system can become too complex at times.    

  When Lineage gets complex, it is too much so. One of the game's strong points is that you can tame 
 animals to fight for you. Once you have them, they make Lineage's combat considerably better. But 
 taming them is an exercise in frustration. To tame an animal, you must fight it and get it below 
 one-third of its hit points. And for starters, there are no health indicators for enemies, so you 
 can't tell exactly whether you've damaged the animal sufficiently or whether you're about to kill 
 it outright. As stated previously, you attack by clicking on the monster. When it is low on health, 
 you must take meat from your inventory and drag it onto the animal. You must do this with the mouse 
 as well, and unless you have a dual mouse setup on your computer, this is cumbersome. Once you 
 drag the meat onto the target, you must type the number of pieces of meat you want to feed it. 
 Usually by this point, you're dead or the monster is dead and you just want to shut down your machine 
 and take a break from the game. Luckily, you can buy pets from others. It's worth spending the 
 money, which itself is scarce in the game, to avoid the frustration of doing it yourself.   

  Lineage has some good ideas and a large player base. But the game's large player population is 
 a mixed blessing, because you will constantly be subjected to inane bickering and bartering in 
 the chat window, to which everyone on the entire server is always privy. The game may appeal to 
 those who want to be more actively involved in the combat or who find the finely balanced automatic 
 combat systems of other online RPGs a bit too abstract. Though the game is free to download, the 
 monthly service charge ($12.95) is equal to the service charge for the much-superior Dark Age of 
 Camelot. Those who miss the glory days of Ultima Online or who want a more persistent online version 
 of Diablo II may enjoy Lineage, but that's not to say it's as good as either of those games. Lineage 
 looks and plays like a much older game, and unless you can drum up some fake nostalgia, you most 
 likely won't make it past the free trial period.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Lineage is an MMORPG with very good ideas and good-looking gameplay, but I can't say the same for 
 the graphics of the game which are annoying and dubious.
  
  There are four types of characters to begin your game: the wizard, the knight, the prince and the 
 elf. They can be both adjusted not only to their gender, but also to their starting skills and 
 characteristics. It seems that the designers have put a good challenge on the table. But while 
 the beginning of the game is good, the rest may dissapoint you after a while.
  
  Starting the action, you will find that different action must be done for different races in order 
 to gain experience and consequently level up. The combat style of Lineage reminds me of games from 
 the late nineties. So it has the spirit, but there is not the atmosphere, the fun and the deep 
 substance an online game should have. Combat becomes the same repetitive procedure which is too 
 boring. Furthermore, there is no detail of the battle, the connection is partly lost when you engage 
 your foe, and little you can do to change the outcome of this.
  
  You can engage other players, team up with them or battle them, action which may seem and hear 
 convincing, but once again poor animation and combat style have assured a serious lack of what 
 the game could have done under other circumstances. And these animations, from everyone in the 
 game: they don't improve, and they won't improve even if you change it to high resolution and visual 
 options.
  
  Lineage is based on a very interesting idea, with many key features and tons of things to do in 
 an otherwise poorly animated world, which won't convice the old players of multiplayer online games. 
 It may appeal only to newer players who want to experience a quite well-constructed gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpaleti
Rating: 5.7
Date: Aug 29, 2003 11:12 am PT
Review:  Lin1, as most of refer to game now with the coming of Lineage 2, is an ok game. The beauty of this 
 game was the relative simplicity for new gamers. In Asia, where MMORPGs were scarce, it's popularity 
 skyrocketed on the back of it's ease of adoption and network effect from rapidly growing user base 
 reaching millions of players. 
  
  In the US, however, I consider it a relative failure compared to it's success in Asia, with users 
 reaching less than 3000 after its Beta moved to pay-to-play. However, as an investment analyst 
 that tracked NCsoft, I played the game and compared it to my experiences in other titles.
  
  It's a very simple 2D experience, with very static, non-customizeable avatars (they don't even 
 have faces) . While the game play is fast compared to 3D popular titles such as Dark Age of Camelot, 
 the graphics are less than impressive, and to the experienced gamer in the US, it would probably 
 be considered child's play.
  
  Customer service is very poor in this game, which I gather results from its low user base, and 
 Lord British's joining the firm in Austin, TX is focused more on the rollout of Lineage 2, which 
 will be more suited to advanced gamers. Since the user base is small, and very few new people are 
 joining the game on US servers (there are 3 servers) , most of the players are very high level, 
 and have evolved into a very established game society. Heavy, long-established rivalries exist, 
 with a strong greed element, with very few players willing to help new Lin1 players. One very annoying 
 thing about game players, which other reviewers have pointed out, is the amount of out-of-character 
 conflict in game. It is often filled with extremely immature name-calling, and racism abounds. 
 I attribute most of this to the Asian game style, which to the mainstream hardcore American gamer, 
 will be considered frivolous banter.
  
  I have played Lineage for 3 years, initially out of work requirement to stay in touch with company 
 developments, and the fact that I was one of the very few global analysts that play game titles. 
 I have continued to play the game, outside of work, for 2 reasons- habit, and the fact that I've 
 made some decent real life friendships with some fellow Lineage gamers, and have some long-established 
 relationships in the game. In fact, some of these relationships and guilds have spread to other 
 games, such as Dark Age of Camelot and EQ. 
  
  The current gamer base is predominantly Asian, with heavy rivalry between Koreans, who had previously 
 long controlled the game, and Chinese, who have emerged to take over much of the PvP servers as 
 Koreans have left the game. For Koreans that remain, it is generally a fierce rivalry. Western 
 and American players are a minority, and if they haven't joined either the main Korean or Chinese 
 guilds, tend to form their own tightly knit group. There are pockets of other smaller guilds, which 
 generally ally with one of the 2 main guilds. Very few independent guilds exist.
  
  Many established players maintain very detailed blogs of all their exploits in terms of rare drops, 
 boss hunts, and pks of rivals. It is actually an impressive effort considering the small number 
 of gamers. Alas, I don't believe the game as much of a future once these advanced players leave, 
 and Lineage 2 eats into it's gamer base. Updates from the still-heavy user based servers in Asia 
 still keep the existing crowd tuned into the game, but with concurrent users on each server peaking 
 at roughly 500 and ebbing at 200 each day, I dont' know how long this game will last in the US.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Furious1116
Rating: 1.6
Date: Apr 27, 2003 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Ok... this game just plain sucks. I received Lineage free in the mail with an offer for 10 free 
 hours, or something to that extent. I figured "Ah, why not?" Well... I deleted the game from my 
 computer within 20 minutes of installing it. Its just a bad, bad game. I don't understand its popularity 
 but to each his own.
  
  There is no depth to your characters... you choose from very few pre-set classes and name the character. 
 You run around, attacking monsters with no real purpose. There are player-made guilds that fight 
 wars with one another. I happened to stumble upon one such battle in my very short tirade. It looked 
 like paper cut outs of people being slapped together to simulate a 'battle.' The game runs like 
 a run down '82 Buick, with herky jerky animation (albeit the animation for any given sprite is 
 probably 3-5 frames) , and enough lag to make you want to punch your monitor. The graphics are so 
 below-standard that they look like they belong on 16-bit system. Basically, just imagine yourself 
 playing a laggy, clunky, dreadfully boring and pointless version of Diablo II on a Sega Genesis, 
 and you have Lineage: The Blood Pledge. Btw i'm not bashing Diablo II, its one of the most fun 
 games i've played in years. Stay away from Lineage if you know whats good for you. I'm glad I only 
 played this on a free trial or I would've sued this company for robbing me of my money. You're 
 better off paying for unnecessary surgery by a back-alley doctor. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
