-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Links 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/links2003/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 26, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 8.1, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 84 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Genre: Golf Sim
Date:     Sep 16, 2002 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Links 2003 seems to lack flair, but it does have numerous upgrades, superb ball physics, and deep 
 gameplay options. 

 One of the most enduring franchises in the history of PC gaming, Links began its storied career 
 in the pre-Windows DOS days of the late 1980s as Links: The Challenge of Golf. It has since been 
 the virtual duffer's de facto standard, due mostly to its precise physics and polished, error-free 
 presentation. Where other golf games have pushed the boundaries with innovations such as mouse-controlled 
 swings, speed play, and lively camera perspectives -- sometimes with unsatisfactory results -- Links 
 has taken fewer chances and stayed the course, even more so since original designer Access Software 
 was purchased and brought into the Microsoft fold. Two years in development, Links 2003 offers 
 several welcome perks such as real-time swings, substantially cleaner scenery, and an all-new career 
 mode. Yet in many ways it seems like the Links of old. Although the extensive Links camp will quite 
 probably consider it to be the new standard, others may find it somewhat cumbersome and more than 
 a bit bland.           A dejected Links 2003 golfer quietly weeps under an imposing barrage of 
 camera perspectives.    

 Just like the other games in the series, Links 2003 is not particularly well stocked with golfers. 
 In contrast to the gaggle of players you'll find in EA Sports' Tiger Woods 2002, the game features 
 just four real-life PGA pros -- David Toms, Annika Sorenstam, the always-dapper Jesper Parnevik, 
 and the suddenly ineffective Sergio Garcia -- and five generic golfers that can be used to piece 
 together a new custom-created player. Indeed, Links offers a wide variety of parameters when fashioning 
 your own player, including skill level, preferred tee, swing type and orientation, club collection, 
 and clothing. You can even import a bitmap image of your own face for the headshots posted at the 
 top of the screen during gameplay.   

  Links 2003 features a total of six courses, one more than in the previous version. Unlike in Links 
 2001, you won't find anything truly wild such as the red rock fantasy Mesa Roja, but the half-dozen 
 prebuilt venues still showcase a wide range of environments. The lineup includes such courses as 
 Mexico's Ocean Course at Cabo del Sol, New Zealand's Lodge at Kauri Cliffs, and the fictional Skeleton 
 Coast in Africa. From the wide-open vistas of Gleneagles to the improbable cliffs and ocean-side 
 scenery of Skeleton Coast and the lush surroundings of Cambrian Ridge, there's always something 
 new to grab your attention -- at first, anyway.   

  When the time comes to look beyond the six stock venues, Microsoft has assured that you won't necessarily 
 have to turn to a competing product. For starters, you can take advantage of Links' course converter 
 to import any course from any previous Links game from 1997 to 2001. If that doesn't do the trick, 
 you can use the enclosed Arnold Palmer Course Designer, which lets you shape the land, add fairways 
 and hazards, and generally go wild building your own perfect one-of-a-kind 19-hole layout.   

 
  The massive array of objects alone -- wherein you don't merely specify a "tree," but the size, shape, 
 and variety of a tree from scores of available alternatives -- allows courses to take on unique flavors 
 and attributes that effectively mimic virtually any desired environment. And trees are just the 
 beginning. Links 2001 has a seemingly infinite number of objects from which to choose, including 
 various domesticated and wild animals, people, buildings, fences, sound files, and almost anything 
 else you'd find in the real world.   

  The course designer also has a sophisticated node-based terrain control system that permits precise 
 and highly detailed modifications to any aspect of major ground-based elements such as fairways 
 and greens. It offers two concurrent real-time perspectives that may be zoomed in or rotated in 
 any direction. And now with the 2003 edition you can blend seams together for more believable object 
 transitions, vary the color and opacity of water, and select and move similar objects in convenient 
 groups. But be warned: The course designer isn't a tool for impatient players. Nonetheless, the 
 stand-alone program purportedly offers the same tools used by the Links team and is certainly quite 
 capable.   

  And in the actual game, Microsoft has assembled an incredible array of tutorials, aids, and user 
 tips. More than ever before, Links is ready to answer virtually all your questions. You'll particularly 
 appreciate the all-new interactive, narrated lesson segments, which guide you step-by-step through 
 everything from basic shot-making to chipping and putting. Links 2003 offers audio-video hole previews, 
 numerous suggestions, and a heaping helping of swing advice. The game even cautions you in advance 
 if you do something foolish, like forgetting to select a human player for the next round.      
      Links 2003 offers lots of help for the new golfer.    

 Links 2003 opens beautifully, with a dramatic, sweeping symphonic soundtrack reminiscent of one 
 of John Williams' best  Star Wars  compositions. The game's menus and interfaces are polished and 
 very pretty, but they have too many needlessly convoluted multiscreen operations for some functions. 
 As has come to be expected for this series, the latest edition offers a veritable bounty of game 
 types and rules, including standard match and stroke; several varieties of best ball, skins, scramble, 
 wolf, and Nassau; putt or die (where the only thing that matters is your skill on the putting green) ; 
 and even the egomaniacal highlight reel. There's plenty more where those came from, and there's 
 an opportunity to concoct your own rules with the returning method-of-play custom game designer. 
   

  One parameter you'll definitely want to specify before you take to the fairways is your shot preference. 
 As always, Links features several swing types, including easy swing (wherein you set the direction 
 and let the program handle the rest) , standard two- or three-click classic swing, and a mouse-triggered 
 power stroke. However, Links 2003 goes one step further. In perhaps the most important upgrade 
 of the latest edition, Microsoft has finally brought the series into the new millennium by incorporating 
 its own version of the real-time mouse swing. Pioneered several years ago in respected but sadly 
 departed titles such as Sierra's PGA Championship Golf, the real-time mouse swing is a wonderful 
 concept that really pulls you into the game.     

 Veteran Links players who enjoy the power stroke swing will likely love the new real-time swing. 
 Once engaged, your virtual alter ego responds in tandem with your mouse movements rather than waiting 
 for you to finish your stroke. This, in turn, gives you a far superior gauge through which to plan 
 power and distance. At the higher difficulty settings, you'll have only your own skill and experience 
 to guide you through the process, yet Microsoft has designed the real-time swing so intuitively 
 that even die-hard fans of the antiquated but still popular three-click swing may convert. With 
 a few rounds under your belt, chances are you'll feel very comfortable "swinging" your mouse as 
 you would a club. Just like a real-life golfer on a real-life course, there's nothing but you, 
 your ball, your swing mechanics, and your understanding of current environmental and terrain conditions. 
 It is important to note that the real-time swing does not factor in your tempo and therefore will 
 not penalize you for pausing at the top of your arc, no matter how long that pause might be.   
         At 1024x768 resolution, Links delivers impressively clean, rich scenery. Sadly, everything 
 but the golfers, the ball and the pin flag is totally stationary.    

 Of course, Links 2003 isn't real life, and sometimes the confines of a 2D viewing screen will play 
 havoc with your depth perception and orientation. Fortunately, Links 2003 has a break-line indicator 
 and an all-new putting assistant. By activating the latter, you're presented with a graphic overlay 
 depicting the perfect trajectory and power. When using the former, you'll see the direction of 
 all pertinent slopes and elevation changes. Both are fine instructional aids that are either unavailable 
 or diminished as you move up in ranks.   

  In order to incorporate the real-time swing, Microsoft abandoned its preplotted video-based golfers 
 in favor of animated, 3D motion-captured representations that move with you as you manipulate with 
 your mouse. The good news is that Links 2003's new 3D golfers are capable of a range of movements 
 and actions that we simply did not see in the previous games. Now, Sergio will take a mock swing 
 at the cameraman when he muffs a shot, much like the real-world Sergio. He'll stretch and brush 
 up on his stroke while waiting for you to make your move, jump about or pump his fist when he's 
 happy, and kick at the grass when he's not. The actual swing animations are just as fluid and very 
 believable.   

  Otherwise, Links 2003 doesn't look as vibrant or as animated as you might hope it would. In Links 
 2003, water does not glisten or ripple. Birds, airplanes, and hot-air balloons do not cut through 
 the sky. Opposing players don't move a muscle when they're in view. Neither do the spectators, 
 even when you can hear them applauding. Trees don't bend, tall grass doesn't sway, and clouds remain 
 perfectly still. Nor is the camera work particularly exciting. Granted, Links has always offered 
 an onslaught of perspectives, but especially in the face of EA Sports' upcoming Tiger Woods, which 
 promises to deliver several spectacular mobile cameras, Links 2003's selection of perspectives 
 seems limited.   

  Furthermore, the game seems slow and cumbersome. Unlike 2000's PGA Championship, Links 2003 doesn't 
 feature a speed game option that lets computer-controlled golfers shoot in tandem with the human 
 player. The game's courses load slowly, its artificially intelligent opponents spend an inordinate 
 amount of time "thinking" before they shoot, and the game's scene-transition rendering times are 
 surprisingly long, especially if you've opened additional cameras. Moreover, Links 2003's "dynamic" 
 camera view, which merely switches to the ball at the culmination of its run rather than following 
 it throughout its travels, is not available if you've selected the real-time swing option.   

 
  Nevertheless, if your computer is fast enough to handle screen resolutions of 1024x768 and above, 
 Links 2003 is a remarkably clean-looking and colorful game. Its scenery is prettier and more believable 
 too, with a greater number of objects and smoother seam-blending between each element. Microsoft 
 has increased the size of the game's textures from 256x256 to 512x512 to further distinguish roughs 
 from fairways and lend a more natural appearance to bunkers, foliage, and trees. But if you run 
 the game on a slower computer, you may never get to experience all the visual upgrades. At resolutions 
 below 1024x768, Links 2003 looks pixelated and ragged.   

  Links 2003's audio is inconsistent. On one hand, the game fully exploits the benefits of surround 
 sound by funneling its effects across the four-positional soundstage. Players seem capable of a 
 variety of distinctive verbal reactions, and the sound of irons and woods striking golf balls is 
 totally convincing. Unfortunately, Links 2003, like Links 2001 before it, has banished all forms 
 of commentary and play-by-play broadcasts to never-never land. In fact, the only voices you'll 
 hear are those of the golfers. Furthermore, applause and gallery cheers are erratic -- accompanying 
 some shots, not accompanying other equally good shots, and suddenly pouncing at full blast rather 
 than ebbing and flowing as real crowd reactions would do.   

  On a more positive note, the game make you feel like you're part of the big picture. Links 2003's 
 new single-player career mode, in which you'll begin at qualifying school and potentially work 
 your way up to world champion, is a compelling element that effectively mimics real-world parameters 
 and glory. Here, you can choose your events, make a ton of virtual money, and even concoct your 
 own personalized season that'll keep you busy for weeks or months. Regrettably, Microsoft has done 
 away with its virtual tournament, thus forcing you to go through the whole process of starting 
 a career and going through qualifying school all over again, just to partake in a single-player 
 tournament experience. That the game's help documents mistakenly list a virtual tournament as a 
 viable option (as it was in Links 2001) only adds to the frustration.           A new course record 
 is a good thing, but the generally long wait between shots is not.    

 Just like the previous games, Links 2003 supports a broad range of multiplayer gaming options, including 
 direct connection, e-mail tourneys, casual competitions, and serious competitions on the Microsoft 
 Gaming Zone, and the potentially profitable online Links Tour. We played several holes on several 
 courses at the Zone and found the competition tight and the graphics smooth. Make no mistake -- this 
 is a hugely popular game that attracts a massive multiplayer following. A new season specifically 
 designed for Links 2003 owners begins this October.   

  Links 2003 seems to lack flair, and it may not be satisfying for virtual golfers who want to enjoy 
 an in-game career as the next Tiger Woods. But the game does have numerous upgrades, superb ball 
 physics, and deep gameplay options.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
