-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Links 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/links2001/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  3, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.7
Critic Score: 8.2, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 48 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Genre: Golf Sim
Date:     Oct 24, 2000
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It'll definitely please Links fans, especially once the promised course-converter becomes available. 
 

 Since its debut in 1996, each installment in the Links LS series has featured upgrades of one sort 
 or another: higher-resolution graphics, better support for online play, more realistic environments, 
 and the occasional addition of a PGA pro like Davis Love III or Fuzzy Zoeller to accompany Arnold 
 Palmer. But last year's edition, Links LS 2000, was so bereft of new features that few players 
 paid it much attention. What's more, the arrival of Sierra's excellent PGA Championship Golf 2000 
 - created by some of the same people who worked at Access Software when it created the original 
 Links 386 and Links LS - did even more to steal Links 2000's thunder.   

  The reason for the paucity of improvements was an open secret in the golf-sim community. Microsoft 
 was busy at work on Links 2001, which would be the first overhaul of the Links game engine since 
 Links LS replaced Links 386. Along with much-improved graphics, Links 2001 was expected to finally 
 deliver what fans of the series had demanded for years - namely, a course designer, which would 
 finally let users create their own courses to trade online.   

  However, now that Links 2001 is finally here, the old saw about being careful what you wish for 
 because you just might get it will spring to a few players' minds. Both the course designer and 
 new graphics engine are undeniably significant and welcome enhancements to the series, but they 
 do have a price. Links LS fans who've accumulated shelves full of add-on courses over the years 
 will be decidedly unhappy to learn that these can't be used with Links 2001, at least not with 
 the shipping version of the game. But Microsoft says that it will be releasing a converter by the 
 end of the year that will let you import your old Links LS - and even Links 386 - courses.   

 
  It's not like there aren't some nice venues featured in the game itself. In fact, there are some 
 real beauties available. The Prince course at Princeville Resort (featured in PGA Championship 
 Golf) and Chateau Whistler are the work of the legendary Robert Trent Jones, Jr.; Arnold Palmer 
 and Ed Seay codesigned Aviara, which is enhanced with an abundance of colorful flora; and Fred 
 Couples not only designed but also owns Westfields Golf Club. The Old Course at St. Andrews rounds 
 out the collection of authentic courses in Links 2001.   

  A wild, rocky course named Mesa Roja has also been included and was apparently designed to show 
 off the power of the game's new rendering engine: High buttes and plateaus loom ominously along 
 most of the fairways and around the greens of this desert course, so much so that at times you 
 might feel as if you should be playing Ground Control or Battlezone instead of golf. Of the real-life 
 courses, Chateau Whistler is perhaps the most impressive; the lush greenery of the surrounding 
 mountains make for incredible vistas, and the undulating greens and narrow fairways combined with 
 gusty breezes can make for some serious challenges.   

  As for how those courses created using the included Arnold Palmer course designer will look and 
 play: If difficulty of use is directly related to how powerful a designing program is, then this 
 course designer should be able to produce some masterpieces. The Arnold Palmer course designer 
 has a bewildering online help system that offers little guidance in determining basic hole and 
 course parameters. After mucking about with it for a few hours, you might just decide you'd rather 
 be golfing. By comparison, the Course Architect Wizard in PGA Championship Golf can walk beginners 
 through the somewhat daunting task of designing their very first holes.   

  On the upside, there's a "checklist" feature in the designer that indicates all the steps you'll 
 have to take to mold your creation to perfection. There's also a huge number of 2D and 3D objects 
 available to work with right out of the box. What's more, the course designer even lets you import 
 your own images to be used in course creation. The only question is how accurately users will be 
 able to re-create real-life links: The official Links 2001 courses used more than 500 global positioning 
 satellite points per green to make them very lifelike.   

  Though the graphics in the last couple of Links LS games looked quite good, they didn't show very 
 much improvement over those in previous Links games. The same certainly can't be said of Links 
 2001. If you have a decent 3D card, you're likely to be shocked at just how much the look of the 
 game has improved since the last version. Character details such as creases on pants or watchbands 
 on wrists will catch your eye, but those aren't so inspiring because they're merely digitized video 
 footage. What  is  impressive is how well the new graphics engine handles objects such as trees 
 and plants even when you find yourself right next to them. Lips of bunkers are discernable (and 
 can often come into play) , and the background scenery no longer looks flat. Whatever else can be 
 said about Links 2001, there can be no question that it's the best-looking golf sim available for 
 the PC.    

 It also plays very well, though not all that differently from the LS games. One area that's improved 
 is the interface, which has been streamlined considerably for smoother navigation (especially in 
 multiplayer games) . There are now 14 golfer models to choose from, including pros Sergio Garcia 
 and Annika Sorenstam (and of course Arnold Palmer) ; while they all look great, you can no longer 
 change the color of their shirts, unfortunately. But just as in the LS line, you can tweak the 
 strength of any computer player in categories such as tee shots, putting, and aggressiveness, and 
 you can set up offline tours against up to 63 computer opponents.   

  Each of the players makes wry comments when things go right or wrong. You might actually grin the 
 first time you hear one of them say, "Good shot - you can open your eyes now," when you peg a fairway 
 shot near the flag, or when you hear your own character chant, "Fun, fun, fun - I'm a Beach Boy!" 
 when you hit a sand trap. But it gets old pretty fast, and there's no type of announcer commentary 
 like in PGA Championship Golf 2000. Perhaps what's most embarrassing are the remarks of Garcia 
 and Sorenstam. When you hear Sergio mumble, "Come on Sergio, you can't miss this opportunity," 
 after missing a putt, you'd swear he was recorded with a mouthful of tees, and most of the time 
 Annika sounds like a robot. You can't really blame them - they're professional golfers, not professional 
 voice actors - but it's hard not to notice how stiff they sound.   

  Out on the links, you'll find that few changes have been made to the play mechanics. Besides the 
 traditional two- or three-click swing gauges, the powerstroke-swing mode returns more or less intact. 
 Like the truestroke mode in PGA Championship Golf, the powerstroke simulates a golf swing by having 
 you left-click and move the mouse horizontally right and left (or vice versa for lefties) . Unlike 
 truestroke, you release the left mouse button at a certain point to simulate the wrist snap to 
 determine whether you hit a straight shot, a draw, or a fade.   

  I had little problem with the mouse-button release, but I never really got used to how fast to 
 move the mouse. Despite numerous adjustments to mouse sensitivity, the powerstroke never seemed 
 as intuitive as truestroke, probably because the onscreen golfer doesn't move in real time to reflect 
 the mouse movement - the golfer moves only after you execute the shot. To its credit, the powerstroke 
 display does feature a diagram outlining the mouse movement and button release of each shot, but 
 after countless mulligans I eventually went back to the standard swing gauge - it was the only 
 way to stay competitive and have fun.   

  In addition, putting is considerably more challenging in Links 2001 than it used to be. But while 
 putting may have been a bit too easy in earlier games, there's one change to the putting that's 
 unwelcome: It's actually harder to hit four-footers than ten-footers (at least with the classic-swing 
 mode) because you have so little of the gauge to work with.   

  Links' modes-of-play editor has allowed the series to always outstrip the competition in sheer 
 volume of game types, and the 2001 edition takes this to new heights: There are 46 modes of play 
 available out of the box, and there's an editor to let you create even more. At first some modes 
 seemed too bizarre to be enjoyable - like being forced to hit out of bounds on your first shot 
 or being limited to only six clubs - but they can actually make for a nice change of pace from 
 standard stroke, match, skins, or team-play modes.   

  Links LS has developed a loyal fan base on the Microsoft Gaming Zone, and naturally Microsoft wants 
 to support the new installment in a big way. Namely, the Virtual Golf Association Tour 2001 is 
 in the works, which will let players compete for cash in online events. It wasn't online as of 
 press time, and, after playing several matches on the Zone, the reason for this seemed clear: Some 
 tweaking still needs to be done to speed up online play. Waits between shots seemed to take forever 
 even when all opponents had reasonable ping times, which probably inspired the "fast play" feature 
 for online games: Instead of seeing your opponent's onscreen persona take his or her shot, you 
 simply view the ball's flight from an overhead perspective. Even so, not too many players seemed 
 willing to accept this perspective for faster play.   

  When all is said and done, the one thing that PC golfers will want to know isn't whether Links 
 2001 is better than its predecessors, but whether it's better than PGA Championship Golf 2000. 
 While Links 2001 isn't sufficiently superior enough to pull anyone away from PGA Championship Golf, 
 it'll definitely please Links fans, especially once the promised course-converter becomes available. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
