-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Lionheart: Legacy of the Crusader
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/lionheart/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 18, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.4, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 599 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interplay
Developer: Reflexive Ent.
Genre: Computer Role-Playing
Date:     Aug 13, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you've played and enjoyed earlier RPGs from Black Isle Studios, this one won't impress you, but 
 at least it'll remind you of those great games. 

  Interplay's Black Isle Studios division is one of the best things ever to happen to computer role-playing 
 games. Many of the best RPGs from the last five or six years have been Black Isle games: Fallout, 
 Baldur's Gate, Planescape: Torment, and Icewind Dale are all part of this brand. Considering that 
 amazing track record, it's easy to get excited about Lionheart: Legacy of the Crusader, Black Isle's 
 latest RPG. Unfortunately, while it does bear some similarities to earlier games from Black Isle, 
 it's generally just not as good. It's primarily a hack-and-slash game, but the combat tends to 
 be unsatisfying, the production values seem dated, the difficulty is uneven and sometimes excessive, 
 and the original alternate-history setting isn't enough to compensate. Even so, the game has some 
 merits, and it can be entertaining for Black Isle fans who don't go in expecting too much.  

          Lionheart has a unique setting, and that's definitely the best thing about it.     

 
  Up till Lionheart, all previous Black Isle games had been developed either internally at Interplay 
 or by Canadian developer BioWare, which created the Baldur's Gate series. Lionheart is instead 
 the work of Reflexive Entertainment, whose credits include 2001's Zax: The Alien Hunter and Star 
 Trek Away Team, as well as a couple of great shareware games, Ricochet and Crimsonland. Not that 
 a company's past achievements are necessarily determinative of its future potential, but Reflexive's 
 past focus on relatively simple, action-oriented games does come across in Lionheart. At first, 
 this game has all the trappings of a complex RPG, including an open-ended character-creation system 
 lifted directly from the Fallout series, dialogue with non-player characters, lots of side quests, 
 and more. However, soon enough, the gameplay of Lionheart becomes a Diablo-style dungeon crawl, 
 in which your lone character will inch his or her way through various enemy-infested areas, cutting 
 down countless forgettable foes.  

  Lionheart isn't the first RPG to feature an alternate-history setting, but it still deserves credit 
 for trying to do something different. According to the game's fiction, Richard the Lionheart's 
 12th-century Crusades resulted in a cataclysmic supernatural event called the disjunction, sort 
 of a Pandora's-box-opening style of event that unleashed all sorts of magic and evil into the world. 
 The game takes place in the 16th century in the wake of the disjunction, but despite the unusual 
 setting and the presence of some historical figures such as Leonardo da Vinci, William Shakespeare, 
 and Nostradamus, Lionheart basically tells your average RPG story, in which your character is a 
 reluctant hero destined to thwart a great evil.  

  When you first begin, you can either choose from a number of pregenerated characters or create 
 a custom character using the SPECIAL system (named after its seven core character attributes: strength, 
 perception, endurance, charisma, intelligence, agility, and luck) , first seen in 1997's Fallout. 
 You don't just choose to play as a fighter, a magic user, or a thief here -- using this system, you 
 define your character's core attributes and choose which skills he or she will excel at, so you 
 have a lot of freedom in developing your persona. In practice, though, Lionheart all but forces 
 you to play as some sort of combat-oriented character. You'll visit some towns and talk with some 
 of the locals, but more often than not, you'll be out in the wilderness, all by yourself, fighting 
 lots of monsters. To do so effectively, you'll want a character who's exceptionally good with weapons 
 and magic -- preferably both and not just one or the other. So, the open-ended character-development 
 system is really more of a guessing game. Are you sure you chose all the "right" skills? Restarting 
 as a new type of character can be a fun and rewarding part of an RPG, but in Lionheart, you might 
 feel forced to.  

          Combat is the focus of the gameplay, but it's awkward and can be very difficult.     

 
  Regardless of your character, the combat's definitely got some problems. The action feels hectic 
 and jerky, and it mostly just involves you left-clicking on enemies to auto-attack them with your 
 weapons and right-clicking on enemies to cast spells on them. Most enemies rush straight at you, 
 fast, and the speed of the game isn't adjustable, so you'll often find yourself desperately trying 
 to click on the moving targets to gain the initiative. Once one enemy falls dead, you'll need to 
 quickly click on another. You can pause the action, and while you can't target foes or issue move 
 orders in this state, you can quaff as many healing potions as you need to when the action's stopped. 
 With all that said, aside from it being repetitive and not particularly interesting, the combat's 
 biggest problem is its difficulty. Some of the battles in Lionheart are flat-out punishing, and 
 in them, you'll just keep dying and dying until you luck out and land a series of critical hits, 
 or something. At least the loading times after death are brief.  

  Also, the game is locked at 800x600 resolution, which considerably limits your field of vision 
 and makes ranged attacks less effective than they ought to be, since you'll typically be able to 
 fire off just one or two arrows or spells before your enemy is upon you. An interface bar hogs 
 the bottom third of the screen, so situations when enemies are approaching from either the top 
 or bottom of the screen can be particularly annoying, though at least there's an option to minimize 
 the bar. The limited resolution also forces you to constantly scroll the screen as you click to 
 move your character -- there's an option to leave the screen centered on your character at all times, 
 but due to the low visibility, it's useless. The interface has a few other issues, such as the 
 fact that your auto-map of each area cannot be annotated.     

  The gameplay of Lionheart does have a few notable twists. You can make your character sacrifice 
 accuracy for an increased rate of attack, or, conversely, to attack more slowly but more accurately. 
 Your character can also try to aim for the foe's head, arms, or legs instead of just its torso, 
 which decreases the chances of scoring a hit in general but increases the chances of landing a 
 critical hit, which can dish out huge damage and also debilitate the foe in some way. In a way, 
 Lionheart is also paced better than some other action RPGs. Slain enemies routinely leave red or 
 blue souls floating over their bodies, and these are simply health and magic power-ups, allowing 
 you to recover from the fight then and there without having to drink potions, rest at an inn, or 
 set up camp. Unfortunately, though, later in the game you'll find that most all the various healing 
 options at your disposal are underpowered considering all the damage you'll probably be soaking 
 up, though blue souls that restore your magic power should be in ample supply. And since there 
 is no option to set up camp or teleport back to town, you might instead find yourself standing 
 around and waiting for your wounds to slowly heal before proceeding further into dangerous territory. 

          The game has some good qualities reminiscent of previous Black Isle RPGs.     

  As 
 mentioned, the game isn't all about the combat. One of the first places you'll visit is New Barcelona, 
 a large city in which you can take on numerous side quests, align yourself with several different 
 factions, and basically do the sorts of things and make the sorts of decisions you probably associate 
 with other Black Isle RPGs. Deciding whether to join with the Knights Templar or the Inquisition 
 (or neither) , helping Da Vinci build a mechanical arm for Cortez, gaining experience levels and 
 deciding how to apply your new skill points and which sort of special abilities (or "perks") to 
 pick for your character -- this is good stuff and a promising start for the game. But in the end, 
 your decisions will mostly affect how frequently you die in the repetitive hack-and-slash battles 
 to come. The detail and intrigue of New Barcelona are not representative of the majority of the 
 game.  

  Games that emphasize combat might as well look good, but Lionheart doesn't. It runs on the same 
 technology that Reflexive used for 2001's Zax and Away Team, and though this engine is technically 
 newer than the Infinity engine used for most Black Isle games, it seems just as long in the tooth. 
 Most of the background scenery is completely static and quite dark, though fairly good looking 
 and detailed, while the characters in the game are small and lacking in detail. Some of the animations 
 are nice, but the characters (yours included) all move about stiltedly and tend to come off looking 
 silly. Some lighting effects and decent-looking spells help matters a bit, but Lionheart still 
 looks like a game from two or three years ago.  

  The audio isn't any better. Voice acting is used for the occasional non-player character, and it's 
 of good quality. On the other hand, the enemies all emit one type of groan or shriek when they 
 first spot you, and then a slightly different groan or shriek when they die. Your own character 
 is practically silent, and the effects of swords, arrows, and spells are understated and bland. 
 Lionheart's musical score includes some decent compositions, but in many scenes there's no music 
 whatsoever (and little to no ambient sound of any kind) , and in other scenes the music will loop 
 over and over till it adds to the frustration of the combat. We also experienced some glitches 
 with the audio -- the music would skip a beat on some occasions. We ran into a few other technical 
 issues, including a couple of unceremonious crashes to the desktop and some mysterious though brief 
 fits of slowdown.  

          The historical references can be interesting, but they aren't enough to rescue Lionheart 
 from its problems.     

  Lionheart has a multiplayer mode with a built-in server browser, allowing up to four players to 
 join together and fight their way through the game's various locations. Yet the multiplayer seems 
 like an afterthought, as even game sessions reporting low pings tend to suffer from some severe 
 lag, only one player at a time can interact with non-player characters, and the content of the 
 multiplayer mode is the same as the single-player mode. Still, theoretically, the multiplayer can 
 help offset some of the game's balance issues, as in this mode, characters specializing in thieving 
 skills, ranged weapons, or support magic -- all of which are in the game but normally not terribly 
 useful -- can properly support a heavy-hitting ally or two. But unless you've got a few friends willing 
 to play on the same schedule as you, and ideally over a LAN instead of the Internet, then the multiplayer 
 probably won't do you much good.  

  Despite its shortcomings, Lionheart still offers a unique setting in which you can interact with 
 characters representing some of the 16th century's most famous thinkers and explorers, and the 
 combat can be fun if you figure out (and like figuring out) powerful combinations of skills and 
 abilities for your persona. If you've played and enjoyed earlier RPGs from Black Isle Studios, 
 this one won't impress you, but at least it'll remind you of those great games.     Editor's note 
 08/19/03 : When the review was originally posted, it stated that the game lacked an option to allow 
 players to view enemy health meters, which is incorrect. GameSpot regrets the error.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (26 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: AndrewLoh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 6:43 pm PT
Review:  amazingly deep historical insights with astounding character development. the likes of leonardo 
 da vinci's workshop, galileo's observatory, the druids, the knights templar, the inquistion, don 
 quioxote, cortez, shylocke, and far more deeper subtil historical inferences that I have yet to 
 fathom. the neverending journey towards the depths of legends past. another AMAZING product developed 
 and marketed successfully by the amazing corporation of interplay entertainment. do not miss out 
 on this priceless sparkling ruby...
  
  interplay entertainment, by gamers for gamers...
  
  this mystery of marie antoinette...
  
  the mystery of the zen masters...
  
  the spanish 
 armada...
  
  the english fleet...
  
  the velvet underground?
  
  the journey of ancients
  
  magnifique...
  
  a wonder wall production... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 15, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 6
  Graphics 8
  Sounds 7
  Value 8
  Tilt 7
  
  The Good
  * Detailed history
  * Superb voice acting
  * Goblin Poetry
  
  The Bad
  * Resolution is 
 locked at 800x600
  * Somewhat repetitive game play
  * Magic system is comparatively weak to melee
  
  It's hard not to get excited about Interplay's 
 latest release Lionheart: Legacy of the Crusade back in 2003. Over a year in development combining 
 with the rumour mills about the possible collapse of Interplay makes me want to say 'lets play 
 it just one more time for the road'.
  
  On the surface it does look like a noble RPG. There are many elements on hand that is rarely seen 
 in many other RPGs. Some of the examples are The Renaissance Period (for which I don't know why 
 this part of history is rarely touched) , the idea of intelligent goblins and no orcs nor elves 
 could be to many 'experienced' role-players going against the 'laws' of fantasy RPG. On the other 
 hand, Lionheart is using the successful 'Diablo' component of serious hack-and-slash over 'conversational 
 trees' to embrace these 'missing elements'. You really cannot blame Reflex Studios trying this 
 out as this method has been extensively used with many other action RPGs.
  
  As the old saying goes 'What's today success is tomorrow's failure' pretty much sums up the mediocre 
 public attention to this game. Considering this over-used formula constantly being displayed and 
 I must admit can be quite tiresome, the unique premise of an alternate renaissance Europe have 
 captivated me to continue this game until the very end.
  
  The story blends well mixing magic with Christianity as you witness throughout Lionheart the continue 
 struggles of the Inquisition and the Knights Templar trying to suppress the evil magic unbeknownst 
 created by Richard of Lionheart during the Third Crusade; hence causing the great 'Disjunction' 
 of 1192. Considering the game starts in 1588, Brittany and Ireland are now 15 different islands, 
 the Cathars are under threat of extinction thanks to the Inquisition and all the 'world's power' 
 is centered in Barcelona, where funny enough is where you start.
  
  Throughout your adventures, you will encounter many famous people during this dramatic era including 
 Leonardo (oddly enough assists you instead of being a pompous snob) , Galileo, Marco Polo, Joan 
 of Arc and many, many others. Pretty much whoever you can think of that had a significant influence 
 during these 400 years, whether be a philosopher, explorer or a warrior, you'll most likely clash 
 heads with them.
  
  You can divide the game easily enough into three parts. The first part (which mainly centers on 
 Barcelona and its surrounding areas) uses the traditional role-playing 'tree' conversations to 
 snatch quests. The second part mixes RPG with 'Diablo style' hack-and-slash and the third part 
 is just pure combat. Considering the game uses the 'SPECIAL' system (famously used in the Fallout 
 series) means it's not compulsory to create 'arch-types' therefore you have the freedom to create 
 any hero you desire. Ironically this is the game's weakness and main criticism. Since the latter 
 part of the game involves wave after wave of hostility it will be beneficial creating a 'fighter/mage' 
 arch-type than a diplomat or passive character; well actually a fighter arch-type as the mage component 
 is a little weak. Many-a-times when monsters spots you, it races towards you so fast you have very 
 little chance of letting go a spell. Aggressive spells like fire and electricity are very weak 
 in comparison to the sword so you eventually ending up concentrating on protective or self-enhancing 
 spells. So here you have this freedom 'SPECIAL' system which will not work effectively in this 
 game. Again Reflex Studios is using a 'yesterday' success story into 'today's' gaming environment.
 
  
  Graphically it's a mixed bag of candies. Considering the backdrop is 2D, landscapes, buildings, 
 fauna, creatures and the likes are impressive. Further on you can see little swarms of fireflies 
 among the trees, smoke rising from chimneys and drops of water into stilled lakes helps the overall 
 game play as it immerses you to embrace the world. Sadly enough, the game's only resolution is 
 800x600 therefore considering the details placed in this game, without a doubt you'll need a good 
 pair of eyes to appreciate the artwork. What's more depressing is the 3D characters are not really 
 behaving in a 3D manner. They tend to be more akin to cutout figures.
  
  Sound wise is a great deal better than the graphics department however yet again a mixed bag of 
 candies... but to say the least, a better bag. All creatures yell out in a unique tone therefore 
 easily recognisable and the background music sounds promising. However, like many parts of the 
 game, a shortfall occurs that at times the musical scores tends to skip a beat or two. If anything 
 is worth mentioning will be the voice acting. I'm sure there will be some games out there that 
 have great voice acting however for my somewhat limited playing experience I have not heard great 
 voice acting since The Longest Journey.
  
  There are some serious bugs which thankfully are rare but extremely potent. The save system which 
 sports the good ole quick save however if the game crashes (and for some odd reason mainly happens 
 around Barcelona) say 'adios' to you saved games. Even the patch won't fix this so it's in you 
 best interest to use many slots instead of relying just a couple. However this corrects itself 
 beyond Barcelona. The game's map scrolling is also a little odd. It appears on the odd occasion 
 it has a brief fit of plummeted framrates then corrects itself.
  
  To those who value their time, Lionheart will take away around 50 hours of game play. For an action 
 RPG it's pretty average in length however it's certainly a great bang for your dollars. Sadly that 
 once the story ends there is no real replay value. As mentioned before, you can try and create 
 a different type of hero however due to the amount of combat, you will eventually winding up again 
 being a fighter/mage.
  
  There is a multiplayer option which sports a maximum of 4 players using coop. Again that's pretty 
 typical of an action RPG however I wish you luck in finding a server to join unless you are using 
 LAN (and a friend of course) . I even tried and create one however sadly enough it was a very lonely 
 road.
  
  The general packaging is worth mentioning. The manual is around 80 pages and pretty detailed and 
 well presented, nice cover art however a little overused as it's plastered on the CDs, box and 
 the manual itself, beautiful artwork of the main races including some beasts of burden and a mini 
 guide all thrown in for around $10.
  
  The overall feeling of Lionheart seems that the game is not in completion. You have geat graphics 
 however fixed resolution; nice sounds, missing beats; real time combat, weak magic system and the 
 list goes on. For every positive there seems to be a corresponding negative and this reflects the 
 greatness of Interplay; that is brilliant game developers, no longer here. Play it for the fond 
 memories of Interplay so let's do it just one more time... for the road. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rohamroham
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  Well this game is really goon in my opinion.
  on the video reviw some things might be true but some the things he says are just lies, its really 
 easy to kill if u have a good character so you wont die a lot .
  that guy that was playing on the video is really crap, he dosnt know how to make a character thats 
 why he died a lot.
  my character is lvl 12 and its now on the crypt when there are like 5-10 monsters it can kill them 
 easily, it dosnt die and its very strong.
  
  so if you cant make a good character and you die a lot, dont blame the game, blame yourself.
 
  
  the gfx of the game are much better than other, like diablo and others so it deserves a better 
 score than this. just because you lose at a game dosnt mean its crap does it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oM1Nu5
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 24, 2007 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Assuming you've read the review at Game-spot, you know what the game is about. Here are some aspects 
 of the game that I'd like to focus on:
  
  First of all, I was really disappointed to see the game getting ruined after the first half of 
 it. Although at first there are tons of side-quests to do, and lots of ways to do them, after a 
 while you get to follow a specific path, fight hordes of monsters who are barely different from 
 area to area and not being able to use any alternate ways to deal with them other than your sword 
 or magic. In the end I found myself playing the game not because I enjoyed it, but because I just 
 wanted to see the ending.
  
  Combat will also make many of you guys feel totally helpless. Not that the monsters are too strong, 
 but you 'll eventually find that the character you have been creating has serious weaknesses which 
 you cannot undo. Playing with a hardcore melee fighter should prove easier than with a spellcaster, 
 but you're gonna get so bored... Even the weapons are starting to look the same, you rarely find 
 any unique weapon to excite you.
  
  Graphics are good, although the HUD should be significantly smaller. Spell effects really impress, 
 yet your character's animation is pretty poorly designed. There is a really annoying issue with 
 pathfinding also. You have to guide your man step by step to get him somewhere in the map...
  
  Where the game rocks, it's on sound effects and speech. It's super great to listen to the dialogues 
 when they occur. Music on the other hand, is so repetitive that you might even want to turn your 
 speakers off sometimes.
  
  Overall, I'd say the game is really disappointing. It has kind of replay value of course if you 
 want to join every different faction or choose a different race, yet I doubt you'll want to go 
 through the entire thing a second time. Most of you should only replay the first half of the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgridlock
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 22, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8/10
  I know this game gets a bad rap, but that's at least partially undeserved. What we have here is 
 a fantasy role-playing game based on the S. P. E. C. I. A. L. rule system, most familiar to gamers as 
 the mechanism behind the classic Fallout games. The gameplay is quite similar to those games and 
 most other traditional, isometric RPGs: you go around fighting monsters, questing, collecting items 
 and building stats to your hearts content. At least it starts out that way, after the first third 
 or so of the game it pretty much becomes a Diablo-esque romp through endless dungeons. This means 
 that players who choose to use the wonderful character-building system to create a character to 
 actually role-play, or to favour a more intelligent route than simply bashing everything in sight 
 may have a hard time once they get out of the Barcelona region. Its a minor quibble, really. Even 
 Baldurs Gate was guilty of this to a certain extent. Anyway, Id say its a solid game, leaning 
 towards the action end of the RPG spectrum.
  
  Graphics: 6/10
  Id expect rather more from a game released in 2003, as to be fair this looks more like a contemporary 
 of those classic Fallout games from 1997 than something six years younger. Simply old-fashioned 
 is the term that springs to mind; after all we have an isometric viewpoint, low, fixed resolution, 
 and an interface bar hogging a large proportion of the screen. In addition, some of the maps are 
 rather repetitive and dull. Nothing is especially terrible, but I would have liked a touch of spark.
 
  
  Sound: 6/10
  Rather plain overall with some nice, although quite bland, background music. The voice acting is 
 pretty good, but the sound effects amount to the usual generic groans, clanks and bangs found in 
 any number of fantasy battles.
  
  Value: 7/10
  The campaign is quite lengthy, and poses a decent enough challenge to keep you interested for a 
 while. While the story might be forgettable in parts, its not naff enough to alienate anyone. 
 This game should be abiding in bargain bins by now, so RPG fans on a limited budget might want 
 to give it a whirl.
  
  Tilt: 7/10
  Good.
  
  Pros:
  What really makes this game stand out for me is the setting: medieval Europe with a magical twist 
 and a winding story that takes you from Spain to France to England to Persia. I love history and 
 games with historical settings, and I love fantasy. So you can imagine that a game combining both 
 really appeals to me. In addition, the gameplay is mostly solid and despite its many faults, I 
 had a blast playing it.
  
  Cons:
  Poor presentation and slightly repetitive gameplay drag an otherwise solid game down into the realms 
 of the forgettable.
  
  Conclusion:
  Fans of role-playing games, Black Isles particular brand of game, or medieval history might want 
 to try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tesalito
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 1, 2007 11:13 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed the Baldurs Gate series as the Icewind Dale. I downloaded the Lionheart demo and I needed 
 to play the entire game. I got it for only 12 dollars. I have to say that this is a gem, oldie 
 but plays smooth. The graphics are nice, the story is original, developers took a risk taking the 
 medieval history and modify it to and alternate reality. Finally the music, its awesome! I play 
 the game with my headphone set. The game is not hard as they say. Im playing with a human character, 
 focusing in melee two hand fighting and expending my skill point on fortitude. God I am enjoying 
 this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silas_J
Rating: 6.4
Date: Oct 1, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward to this game when I was waiting for Neverwinter Nights. The alter-earth story 
 looked compelling and with Fallout's role-playing system, I thought this game would be awesome.
 
  
  After playing the demo, I should have figured I'd be disappointed, but the story was a compelling 
 one, so I picked it up when it was cheap. And for a so-so game, I played it through twice.
  
  The good part of the game: the backdrops are nicely done, the alter-earth story and the solid 
 role-playing system was two very strong points about this game. Some of the music scores are good 
 and don't get tiring. If you choose your skills and perks adequately, it can remain a challenge 
 from start to finish instead of a cakewalk.
  
  The bad press: If you do it right you can, in most places, draw off one enemy at a time, even in 
 a tightly packed gang of foes. If they had any brains whatsoever, at least the tight groups would 
 have faced you all at once. Your henchmen will charge at the first sign of an enemy. Although the 
 explanation of they aren't your slaves is understandable, I spent most of my time travelling alone 
 because my henchmen kept dying too quickly. The interface is better than Diablo in that you only 
 need to click once (instead of breaking your mouse buttons) to fight an enemy to the end. But that's 
 the only perk to the interface. The enemies come running at you, and instead of being able to pick 
 your enemies while the game is paused, it becomes a game of tag, and in some places a frustrating 
 escapade of no, THAT'S the one I want to attack. I also found the ending to be a letdown.
  
  Bottom line: I think that Black Isle should have been paying more attention Reflexive Entertainment 
 inability to develop an RPG and less to the financial statistics. This game could have been so 
 much more, even with the same ending, if they had only taken the time to fix the AI and the miserable 
 interface. I still find the story compelling enough to play it through to the end more than once 
 and pretty much enjoy it.
  
  I don't feel let down by this game, but I certainly wouldn't have paid full price for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: serpentfang
Rating: 6.7
Date: Sep 29, 2006 2:04 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed the first half of this title. The music, voice acting and sound effects combined 
 to create just the right stage for an alternate history based on the time of the Inquisition.
 
  
  The character creation options were interesting and fun. Character selection also enhanced the 
 premise (demonic and sylvant races created by a magical rift) and provided challenges in creating 
 just the right mix of skills - taking some attributes would often lower contradictory ones. A variety 
 of magic, stealth and attack combinations further added to character depth.
  
  Once the plot is introduced, you are free to explore the city of New Barcelona, choose factions 
 to ally with, and complete various challenging and thought-provoking quests. So far, these attributes 
 all conspired to make this a great game.
  
  Suddenly (somewhere around the halfway mark) the quests become uninspired and then non-existent, 
 and it's simply a matter of the game throwing more and more monsters in your path. They also become 
 ridiculously difficult (especially if you're not a heavy hitting fighter) .
  
  All I can say is, while I don't regret investing time in this game for what it offered, I do regret 
 that the developers didn't maintain the level of excellence shown in the first half of the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fengshuigm
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 1, 2006 3:23 pm PT
Review:  This game was a swan song of Black Isle Studio, the creator of such grand adventuring prospects 
 such as Fallout, Fallout 2, and Icewind Dale. To best describe it, Lionheart takes the best parts 
 of the Fallout series (the SPECIAL and level perks system) and combines it with the real time combat 
 theme of Diablo.
  
  The background for the game is as follows: The game begins with the story that in 1189, the Pope 
 ordered a Third Crusade to take Jerusalem from the infidels. In 1191, King Richard the Lionheart 
 captured the city of Acre and demanded tribute from Saladin, leader of the Muslims. When Saladin 
 failed to produce the tribute in 1192, King Richard was advised to bring together several holy 
 artifacts to bless his army and to curse his enemies. While Saladin tried to negotiate the tribute, 
 King Richard put to death several thousand Muslims in a show of force. That bloody act, combined 
 with the presence of the reality weakening artifacts, caused a calamity known as The Disjunction.
 
  
  The Disjunction caused a rift in reality, allowing demons, monsters, and other hellish beasts to 
 appear in the human world. Joining forces, Saladin and King Richard were able to drive off Richard's 
 advisor, who turned out to be a powerful demon in disguise, and ended the ritual before its completion. 
 However, the damage was done. Magic was released into the world, mythic beasts now roamed the lands, 
 and humanity as a whole was ill equipped to deal with them.
  
  Fast forward several centuries to 1588, the current time of the game. You play the Scion of Lionheart, 
 one of the bastard descendants of the rather prolific King Richard. In your bloodline resides a 
 spirit of considerable power (you can choose whether it is angelic, demonic, or bestial) , which 
 was once merged with King Richard. The spirit has now awoken within you and allows you to utilize 
 magic, a rare talent that is now being cracked down upon by the Inquisition, who ironically also 
 use magic.
  
  You start as a slave who narrowly avoids being killed by assassins. After you free yourself, you 
 meet with Leonardo Da Vinci, who tells you that in order to find out who is trying to kill you, 
 it would be best if you joined a faction and find out who is behind the assassination attempt. 
 It is at the foot of Nuevo Barcelona that you start your quest...
  
  Character Creation: Fairly straightforward. Anyone who is remotely familiar with the Fallout series 
 will see the exact duplication of the skill setup, the perks system, and the SPECIAL system (Strength 
 Perception Endurance Charisma Intelligence Agility Luck) . You can choose four racial types: Pureblood 
 (human) , Demokin (human who has a demonic spirit taint in their bloodline) , Sylvant (human who 
 has an elemental spirit taint in their bloodline) , or Feralkin (human who has a bestial spirit 
 taint their bloodline) . From deciding which race you choose allows you certain abilities and disadvantages 
 (since this is the 'fantasy history' of the year 1588, racism is alive and well, along with persecution 
 for being anything other than 'human') .
  
  The skills system is arranged so you can devote to three Tag skills that will increase faster than 
 the other ones. Using the Tag skills allows you to customize your character to your play tastes. 
 Like sneaking about and popping locked chests with ease? Tag your thieving skill set. Want to be 
 a splatterpunk? Tag your HTH skills. Want to talk your way out of everything? That's right, Tag 
 your diplomacy skills. I thoroughly enjoyed creating the character, although I was disappointed 
 by the few customization choices of the avatar (Head changes or color of your clothes) .
  
  Game mechanics/graphics/music: Obviously, the game is completely mouse driven with a set of hot 
 keys for various actions and placeholders for using spells and commonly used items (i. e. healing 
 and mana potions) . The resolution of the game is stuck in 800x600 frame, which cuts down on some 
 visibility. However, you can choose to turn off the feature that allows the screen to center on 
 the character and can scroll about the screen that way. Combat and magic is just like Diablo, with 
 creatures rushing to engage your character. Left clicking once on an opponent will start your character 
 to attack with his equipped weapon until it is defeated. Right clicking will cause the character 
 to cast his readied spell. As in Fallout, you can choose to hit a certain area on your opponent 
 in the hopes of causing a critical hit. Unlike Fallout, you may also vary the speed of your attacks 
 in order to increase the frequency at the expense of accuracy.
  
  My quibbles in this section are minimal. To me, there wasn't a diverse enough group of enemies. 
 The programmers seemed to think that, "Hey, we need another type of monster! Why don't we Super 
 Size a regular sized monster?" was a good idea. They also thought that just changing the color 
 of the monster would expand the foe base. It just seemed lazy to me. The music is very good but, 
 just like the foe base, is limited. Also, the music skips a lot. Even after the patch was used, 
 the music still skipped and restarted.
  
  Like Icewind Dale, you can play the game online, but I have yet to do so. I would be interested 
 in trying it out, however.
  
  Game background and plot: The plot, as mentioned above, is nothing new. You're cast into the unenviable 
 position of a) trying to find out why someone wants to kill you and b) ultimately stop them from 
 initiating a Second Disjunction. To that end, the first half of the game is spent in wandering 
 around Nuevo Barcelona and the surrounding countryside, gaining experience, and getting new equipment. 
 The game is non-linear in the beginning, but eventually becomes as straight as a ruler in the second 
 half. This jarring change left the impression that the creators just wanted to rush the player 
 on to the Final Battle, but not before running the player through several gauntlets of enemies. 
 My other complaint is that, just like in original Fallout, the companions you have the odd chance 
 to pick up are useless for the most part. In a turn based combat system, they might last longer. 
 But, in real time combat, they burn up like snowballs in Hell without their hats. To add insult 
 to injury, they never gain levels like you do, nor are they particularly intelligent when it comes 
 to engaging enemies. They just run pell-mell at the nearest baddie and nearly every time they get 
 their heads handed back to them on silver platters.
  
  On the other hand, playing in the alternate universe of 1588 was rather fun. Besides Leonardo Da 
 Vinci, you also meet the likes of Galileo, Hernan Cortez, William Shakespeare, Machiavelli, and 
 Miguel De Cervantes (who, like Don Quixote, is slightly off base) . I also found it to be interest 
 piquing game for European history at that time. Until I played the game, I never knew of the religious 
 movement of the Cathars. So, I read up on it. Wow, who would have thought that a game might cause 
 interest in the history that it's using as a backdrop?
  
  Words from the Peanut Gallery: After buying the game and finishing it, I wandered around to see 
 what reviews it got. Overall, the game received mediocre reviews. Some of them were fair, others 
 were not. I'll respond to some of the complaints about the game here.
  
  It's too haaaaard! Hmm, seeing that I have beaten the game three times already, each with a completely 
 different character style: 1) Archer 2) HTH 3) Mage with high speech skill, I find that argument 
 to be weak at best and a cop out at worst. The complaints of too much combat are a bunch of nonsense. 
 This isn't My Little Pony: The RPG. It's a fantasy CRPG, like Fallout, Arcanum, and Icewind Dale. 
 Of course it's going to be combat centric! If you complained about too much combat and you played 
 any of those games, or games of that type, before this one then you have no excuse. You know that 
 combat is going to be involved, usually a lot of it. Granted, I prefer turn based combat, but I 
 adapted to the real time combat system easily. I like games that are a challenge, that take time 
 and effort to actually finish. I despise games that you can finish in a weekend. Seriously, what's 
 the point in that? Next.
  
  You need to make your character with high skills in x, y, & z to play this game Rubbish, and I'll 
 tell you why. The skills mentioned were "Speech, Lockpicking, and Detect Secret Doors." Speech 
 is good to get out of combat and character interaction, but it doesn't always help. Lockpicking 
 and DSD are valuable, but if you have low skills in any of them, you can either boost them by a) 
 buying potions that jack them up or b) find equipment that heighten them as long as you wear/equip 
 them. The potions and equipment are far from rare and are easy to come by. So, don't feel like 
 you're screwed if you didn't tag the above mentioned skills. There are ways around it. Next.
  
  This alternate universe sucks! The characterizations of historical figures are crap! This game 
 is historically inspired and not historically accurate. The game never claims or implies it. That's 
 why I find that review so nonsensical. I was highly irritated that this individual decided to focus 
 on that rather than the game as a whole. I read his review and thought it was terrible because 
 he complained about how the historical figures were used, rather than focus on the game. I wanted 
 a game review, not a history lesson! Also, get ready for this, it's a freakin' G-A-M-E! If you 
 want historical accuracy, go read a history book. You want to have fun? Play the game.
  
  Final standings:
  Character Creation: A-
  Game mechanics/Graphics/Music: A
  Game Background 
 and Plot: B-
  Overall: B+ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cmpunmu3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 30, 2006 10:23 am PT
Review:  They created oddly world of long past times, when different spawns of evil were roaming the earth 
 and attacking people, not to mention wars that were set in motion between people. It was the time, 
 when people fought with swords and axes and used power from the spirit world to manipulate minds 
 of their enemies and then blow them up with the gun-powdered bomb.
  The game is reasonably difficult, you will have to use spirit powers, all your available skills 
 to finish quests and proceed further. On theway to save humankind you'll face a lot of dangers, 
 wich include unequal in power boss fights, avoiding all sorts of traps, facing ambushes and defending 
 innocent. Sometimes travels take you to the spirit world where you have to face your most terrible 
 nightmares and make your way through it using own spiritual powers. I noticed that the game gets 
 really hard to play, if there's no health replenishing skills available - better do something about 
 it.
  Also will your hero encounter a lot of historical structures and famous people, and will take part 
 in history by helping them fulfill their dreams as your main quest.
  A lot to see here and enjoy the wicked fantasy world with solving creepy quests and turning the 
 history upside-down by your own hand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roc_d_goodag
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 5, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  When I read the back of Lionheart at my discount store, I was immediately interested. An RPG sent 
 in an alternate-Earth reality had the possiblities of a fun gaming experience. I enjoyed the historical 
 references made in the game. Doing quests for figures such as Da Vinci, Cortez, and William Shakespeare 
 added a nice touch and saved the game from having a lower rating. The game felt more like Diablo 
 II than any of the Baulder's Gate series. Because of the hack-n-slash nature of the game, the game 
 had practical limitations to developing and leveling a character for role playing and limiting 
 combat skills. Overall, an average game that was worth playing through once. If you enjoy the demo, 
 buy cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnCahgNeetoh
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 6, 2005 10:03 am PT
Review:  This starts out as a game with a lot of promise. It just seems to get difficult late in the game, 
 with little reward. It just seems like there could have been so much more to this game. But there 
 seemed to just be a lot of "pasting" of enemies late in the game just randomly for no direct reason. 
 As for graphics... I don't take them into consideration. I just beat this not too long ago. It's 
 2005. Graphics don't mean much, if anything to me when it comes to RPGs that are like this (meaning 
 Baldur's Gate, Icewind Dale, Revenant, etc) .
  
  As in terms of plot, this game seems to be very basic. There aren't any real plot twists. If you 
 watch the intro (back story) , and then just realize that you need to kill the bad guy... that's 
 pretty much it.
  
  Thinking of all the Forgotten Realms RPGS that Black Isle has made, it is kind of hard to believe 
 they made this one for only one person in the party. Growing up and playing the Baldur's Gate, 
 Icewind Dale, etc. games that have a party system and you can mix up the skills. This has you being 
 pretty much everything. You do get AI controlled partners, but these "partners" are horribly designed. 
 Even the weakest of them who seems to be incredibly fast, will run in front of you and take the 
 "blunt" of the first few hits, from a group of enemies. By "blunt" I mean two hits and he is dead. 
 You can't bring them back either. Once they are dead, they stay dead. Near the end of the game, 
 after all the "No! Don't rush! &^%#$" which leads to me reloading a quick save game (which will 
 randomly be corrupted, so it's best to make several 'hard saves') I just let the poor fellow die. 
 This seemed to be the most frustrating aspect of the game.
  
  Near the end, with my melee character, the game got increasingly difficult as well. I read that 
 with mages/rangers it was much easier. Looking at the gauntlets that are at the endgame, it is 
 easy to see why. There also seems to be quite a bit missing in terms of variety. There is nothing 
 really awe-inspiring when it came to spells, armors or weapons. Same basic spells that we have 
 all seen before. One always hopes for a level cap spell that summons down 500 meteors... not here. 
 As for weapons/armors... after about 2 hours into the game you see all the magic enhancements that 
 the game offers. As you progress, instead of a +5 to AC, you will find a +8. Nothing that we haven't 
 seen before.
  
  This game serves mainly as a memory of the great games Black Isle put out so long ago. It's not 
 necessarily a "bad" game. But it sure isn't "good" either. There are also plenty of bugs throughout 
 that cause a crash to the ole' desktop. Even with the patch. It mainly seems like a bad first try, 
 but could lead to a better sequel. But it's two years old, and got bad to decent ratings. We won't 
 see a sequel, although, I am not incredibly broken up about it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Harm
Rating: 6.9
Date: Nov 9, 2004 3:45 pm PT
Review:  The game isn't as bad as many who have reviewed it make it out to be. The game is by no means innovative 
 or unique. But for those that love Fallout/Fallout 2 style of gameplay and wouldnt' mind revisiting 
 that style of game in a new world with different skills and plot then this game will be enjoyable.
 
  
  Since I'm one of those types that love Fallout, I enjoyed this game. In fact, played it through 
 with more than one character type just to play around with the skills; similar to what I've done 
 in the past with Fallout and Fallout 2. 
  
  A new touch to these types of games comes in the form of cooperative play, so you and your friends 
 can venture through the game together. Which is something new to this type of game from Black Isle.
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TazmanianD
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 16, 2004 9:39 pm PT
Review:  I have played almost all of Blask Isle's games and have loved most of them. Thus, I automatically 
 put Lionheart on my preorder list and played it when I got it. What a disappointment. The combat 
 in the game is rather dull being basically about button mashing. Most isometric games allow you 
 to pause the game and direct your characters. Not in this game. When you pause it, you are limited 
 in what you can tell you character to do and targetting enemies in real time is not very easy.
 
  
  If you play a magic user, be wary. You have an amount of mana that you can use and there's no way 
 to replenish it quickly without buying a potion (which is difficult early on with limited money) . 
 There is no way to rest and recuperate. If you run out of mana, you literally have to let your 
 character sit there and slowly regenerate as you go make yourself a sandwich or something.
  
  The characters weren't terrible as some other reviewers have said. The painted backgrounds 
 are reasonably good and worhty of the game.
  
  The only interesting novelty I found in the game was the existence of hidden rooms and doors which 
 often required a high level of skill to find. They are hidden very well so unless your skill actually 
 allows you to see them, you wouldn't know they were they.
  
  It's a playable game if you're a big fan of the genre, but nothing to write home about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eccentric
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jul 29, 2004 11:53 pm PT
Review:  There's a crash bug that I run into about three hours into the game that no amount of tweaking 
 or patching would fix. A bit dissapointing, I guess, but not too bad since I hated the game anyway. 
 It gave me an excuse to not feel bad about quitting a game I spent $45 on. Black Isle has put out 
 some classic RPGs, but this game... I'm sure by now it's available in the bargain bin. If you've 
 got $10 to gamble with, maybe it's worth getting. I have heard of some people working around the 
 bugs and actually having a decent time. I certainly was not one of those people. If I had a second 
 chance, I wouldn't spend any amount of money, no matter how small, on Lionheart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sywell
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 17, 2004 1:52 pm PT
Review:  I was very disappointed by all the naysaying reviews. But there were a couple of positive reviews, 
 so I decided to give it a try. Being an avid S. P. E. C. I. A. L. fan I had high hopes... and I was not 
 disappointed. I played through the game as a Thought Magic Fire Mage and reached level 46. One 
 common theme in negative reviews is the difficulty of the game. I would not say it was difficult, 
 but if you do not exercise due care you will have your butt handed to you. The graphics are not 
 mind blowing but they really do the job... think Diablo II. I would highly recommend Lionheart to 
 anyone but especially RPG'ers. One gameplay hint. Do not scatter your Level Up points around. Stay 
 focused on improving your character's abilitys. Think offense, defense and healing. These are what 
 will get you through the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 4.2
Date: Oct 18, 2003 10:09 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot's review does not quite describe what a terrible game this is. Lionheart has a very interesting 
 premise, and it uses a very cool roleplaying system, but it is a poor game in every aspect. How 
 you could take such a cool concept and make it into such a crappy game is beyond me. There is not 
 one thing that "Lionheart" gets right. 
  
  For starters, this game looks awful. Every screen is is covered in greys or browns, like all of 
 Europe was just buried in some kind of volcanic eruption. The various areas in this game just look 
 repetitive and abysmal. Your character, along with all of the game's NPC's, look drab and undetailed, 
 and they move with herky-jerky motion. 
  
  But gameplay is where this game really, really stinks. By and large, it is a terrible dungeon crawl 
 with a bad combat system. The SPECIAL system used for Fallout and Fallout 2 was excellent, but 
 here it is simply awful. Everywhere it's the same. A monster from offscreen yells out "rawwwrrrrr" 
 and rushes at you with light speed and attacks you. It's pointless to be an archer or much of a 
 spell caster, since you don't have any time to use those abilities, and they are largely useless 
 anyways. Simply put, Lionheart is a very poorly balanced RPG. There was absolutely no imagination 
 put into the monsters for this game. Most of them cut you down to only 10% of your health, so after 
 every battle, you have to sit and wait for 10 minutes while you regain your health before you move 
 on. Needless to say, it's quite boring. 
  
  The interface for this game stinks too. The bottom portion of it takes up more than a quarter of 
 the screen, but it always manages to feel functionally inadequate. There are only 7 hotkeys for 
 abilites -- only 7. Compare than with 12 for Divine Divinity or 36 for Neverwinter Nights, and 
 you have a good idea for how far behind it is. Add on top of that, you cannot pause the game to 
 issue an attack order. 
  
  Lionheart is a game that is totally devoid of imagination and inexcusably bad. Advertising this 
 game as using the Fallout SPECIAL system is an insult to everyone that has ever played that game. 
 This is neither a good RPG, nor is it a good hack-and-slash dungeon crawl. Other than a handful 
 of decent voice actors, I can find no redeeming qualities for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgalt
Rating: 5.6
Date: Sep 9, 2003 2:12 pm PT
Review:  The first town showed promise, but after that it was pure click-based hack-n-slash. This game very 
 much has the feel of a game that was in production, ran out of budget about 1/3 of the way through, 
 and was finished quickly by throwing areas and lots of combat encounters with no rhyme or reason 
 for the last 2/3 of the game. Had the game continued like the first town, it would have gotten 
 a 7.5 to 8.0, but as it is it's just more disappointing than anything else.
  
  The good points are the first town which is well done and the SPECIAL system orginally introduced 
 in the Fallout games. I really like the SPECIAL system and hope this very mediocre game doesn't 
 kill it. I'd really like to see another SPECIAL system game with the quality of Fallout, but I 
 think Lionheart may have put the nail in the coffin of the SPECIAL games. Too bad.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhenixRogue
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 29, 2003 7:05 pm PT
Review:  This review is strictly based on playing as a single player and not in multiplayer mode. Interesting 
 premise and story but the graphics are unimpressive since resembles Arcanum (which is two or so 
 years old) . It's a bit fuzzy in the details and the characters are small. Compared to Neverwinter 
 Nights, the Lionheart interface is old. 
  
  The problems with the Lionheart interface are as follows:
  1) You can't rotate perspective or 
 zoom in on the character.
  2) Not enough quick slots.
  3) Only one slot for prepared spells, which is ridiculous.
  4) Hard to engage in battle because 
 you're constantly having to move your mouse along with the target.
  5) Pausing the game does not permit you to plan your attack, i. e., aim at the monster, like Baldur's 
 Gate II.
  6) AI for monsters have "mob" mentality and tends to come at you in bunches.
  7) Monsters move faster than you do, so you die fairly easily.
  8) Game does not permit you to 
 make game easier or harder.
  9) No real control over video or sound like most other games.
  10) Inventory control is tedious.
  
  Now, the game play problems: Lionheart implies you can 
 have others in your party, but where are they? Unless this ONLY APPLIES to multiplayer games, which 
 cheats single players from enjoying the game because the monsters in Lionheart obviously assumes 
 you have companions with you (i. e., the quick moving mob) . Also, the mysterious spirit that helps 
 you in the beginning of the game is not a companion and does not help except for popping in and 
 out of the game.
  
  Lionheart is an adequate game, if you can overlook the frustrating game play and interface. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_elusive
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 21, 2003 1:28 pm PT
Review:  I have not actually played the released game, but I did download the demo. From what I experienced 
 with the demo I was disappointed and decided to either wait for the price to come down, or not 
 bother with this game at all. My recommendation is to download the demo before buying this game. 
 I thought this game was going to be like BG or IW, in which I am a big fan of these games and I 
 still play these Black Isle titles in my spare time. But Lionheart was not the same caliber of 
 a game from what I could tell. I am sure at some levels this game has value, but overall I think 
 Black Isle should continue the Fallout and BG series and just make the games that were so great 
 even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tabbikaat
Rating: 6.6
Date: Aug 20, 2003 5:57 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game just about average. Not quite as good as Neverwinter Nights (awesome graphics) 
 or Diablo II-Lord of Destruction. The quests are different and interesting - lots of choices to 
 make and allows for evil OR good characters to play as you choose. However, it appears to be a 
 little unbalanced as far as the difficulty level - I find my magic user character dies VERY frequently. 
 All enemies seem to immediately see you and close the distance to pound you, surround you, thereby 
 quickly putting an end to any dream you naively had of treasure and fame. Monsters are very tough 
 and travel in large packs. I am about 1/3 into the game and getting worried I may not be able to 
 finish with the character I created. Treasure is randomly generated and nicely detailed and described. 
 There are lots of different types of body armor to buy or find while exploring. Note: You simply 
 MUST have high Perception, Charisma attributes and Speech, Barter, Lockpicking AND Spot traps skills 
 to advance in this game. 
  No matter what type of character you play you must put precious skill points into lockpicking as 
 there is NO other way to open treasure chests or doors. If your strength is HIGH enough you can 
 force doors and chests but I do not know how high you strength would need to be. This is ridiculous 
 for a magic user character as they normally would not have the strength OR thief type skills.
 
  There are three factions you can join (but you can only pick one) which will give you gold, experience 
 and special perks. I might re-play this game as a paladin type character to explore the different 
 faction quests. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nethead
Rating: 4.7
Date: Aug 20, 2003 6:39 am PT
Review:  What a shame. This game seemed to have so much promise and yet a series of bad design decisions 
 have let us all down. Here are some fo the issues i have with the game:
  
  * Combat lacks the strategy of either the turn-based Fallout or the real-time-with-pause Infinity 
 games. Enemies rush at you, and there is little strategy or decisions to make with regards to how 
 you will tackle these foes.
  * Resolution locked at 800x600? This is just not on these days.
  * Another user review said that 
 games dont have to be 3D to look good, but there are many 2D games up to a few years old that blow 
 Lionheart out of the water. The graphics are simply dated and not good enough even for a 2D game.
 
  * The massive control panel takes up too much real estate and the minimised version does not show 
 enough information.
  * The main character, which you will spend a lot of time looking at, is unimpressive and the animation 
 simply does not look right.
  
  The promise this game held, with is unique story and its incredible pedigree was incredible. Sadly, 
 the game not only fails to approach these high expectations, it fails to even reach the level of 
 an average game.
  
  Bring on Fallout 3.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VaDeR-FRL
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2003 6:33 am PT
Review:  Well, I can't say I agree with the reviews.
  
  Most talk negative about the graphics, wich are neat, sharp and nice, 
  lets say, I love them.
 
  It all gives the game the cool atmosphere it needs for the story.
  btw:
  I really believe 3D graphics are not the key to create a cool game.
  2D graphics can do the job 
 as wel;)
  I personally was not that amused with the 3D graphics of neverWinter, 
  so I can't say I think the 2D graphics of this game are a minus.
  
  The gameplay is also nice.
 
  Had to get used to the slightly different way this game handles 
  things like BG, but ala, this is not BaldursGate-III.
  I guess I liked that too, not another 
 BG game........
  
  The story is cool, and while I am still playing the game, 
  I have to say: I looooove the story-settings;)
  
  This game is well-worth trying / buying.
 
  Please try the demo, and if you like it.... buy it!!!
  I don't regret spending my hard earned money on it;)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: beh64
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 18, 2003 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Disappointing, not quite finished, features cut, all of this and more describes the mediocre lionheart. 
 Blackisle had very little to do with this game; at least i hope they had very little to do with 
 it. The inimitable fallout, the masterpiece planescape: torment, and the hack and slash classic 
 icewind dale, blackisle classics all; a proud pedigree sullied by an unworthy developer. Reflexive 
 should stick to their little internet games; they were out of their league here. As an aside, I 
 would just like to say that lionheart is better than the incredibly bland and lifeless neverwinternight 
 single player game, which is probably one of the worst games i've ever finished. But bioware has 
 bounced back with the excellent knights of old republic, which is basically a 3d-starwars version 
 of baldurs gate 2, but that's definitely not a bad thing at all. Greyhawk: temple of elemental 
 evil will be rpg of the year when it comes out in september, so forget lionheart and wait for that. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KindGalaxy
Rating: 4.3
Date: Aug 18, 2003 4:53 pm PT
Review:  This game was a huge disappointment from a company such as Black Isle, their inhouse development 
 of games such as Fallout 1 and 2 along with Planescape: Torment and their association with the 
 development of Bioware's Baldur's Gate series should have led to this game being among the top 
 isometric RPGs to date. Instead we witness yet another turn for the worse for this great company. 
 The gameplay us hectic, with the combat being pure real-time (you can not issue commands while 
 the game is paused) . 
  
  Though the full blame can not be placed on Black Isle, its true developers, Reflexive Entertainment. 
 Perhaps Black Isle did not give them enough tips on creating a good RPG, perhaps Reflexive Entertainment 
 did not take their advice I can not say. 
  
  This game's only redeeming quality is the alternate universe, it is quite detailed and enjoyable 
 to emerse yourself in the history that never was. Save your money for Temple of Elemental Evil, 
 or Hordes of the Underdark. A great RPG this isn't.
  
  And advice to Black Isle is pure and simple, listen to your fans and create Fallout 3. RPGs are 
 on the decline once again and perhaps the Fallout series will save it like it did so many years 
 ago. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apco25
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 16, 2003 10:29 am PT
Review:  I have to admit I have mixed feelings about this game. LH is a game that combines elements of Diablo 
 with an actual story-line. There are some very cool things and some very irritating things as well. 
 This is an account of my first impressions, since I have not completed the game but have played 
 it for a while.
  
  The Good:
  
  - Good Story-Line
  - Neat premise with the spirit magic concept that interact with the character
  - Lots of advancement 
 options and character development options (SPECIAL system)
  - Perks are cool as well as race traits
  - * Combat is OK (see below)
  - * Graphics are good 
 (and bad)
  - Great Quick save feature (this game would be to irritating without it)
  - Good overall controls (except magic)
  - Good sound but flaky at times
  - Quest Log
  - Good 
 spell selection
  
  The Bad :
  
  - You cannot play in any other mode but 800x600. WTF? Even if you change the config file to force 
 another mode, it looks terrible and has many issues (try it yourself and see)
  - No sound options such as EAX/2 to choose from (maybe it automatic)
  - When adding skill points, 
 they need a minus next to the plus (there is room) to easily remove points as well as add them. 
 Then when done, apply the points with a separate button.
  - Spells are hard to use in combat since when you apply them with a quick button it just puts it 
 into the active spell slot instead of casting immediately. This is bad because there are a lot 
 of spells that can help in combat but are hard to use. I end up just using a fire orb or similar 
 most of the time. (maybe I am missing something in the controls that would help this)
  - No way to exit out of in-game conversations that talk (in-game story-line movies) . i. e. the 
 beginning scene.
  - No way to mark you own stuff on the map.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  I was waiting for this game for a long time. If you are an RPG fan that is fed up with the RPG 
 on-line scene and want a good single player RPG, buy this game. This game had a lot of potential 
 but in my opinion fell short of a great game.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
