-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Lock On: Modern Air Combat
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/lockonmodernaircombat/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 12, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 7.6, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 740 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Evolved Games
Developer: Eagle Dynamics
Genre: Jet Sim
Date:     May 3, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Lock On clearly has the potential to be an all-time classic sim, but there are some serious problems 
 in the retail version. 

  Lock On: Modern Air Combat has been one of the most anticipated simulations in flight sim history -- and 
 for good reason. Not only has there been a dearth of serious combat flight sims in recent years, 
 but Lock On has a stellar pedigree (the Flanker series) , a highly esteemed development team, and 
 a stable of aircraft designed to thrill any sim fanatic. Does it live up to the hype and hope? 
 Lock On clearly has the potential to be an all-time classic sim, but there are problems in the 
 retail version that will make some want to watch and wait for a patch or two before purchasing. 

          The cockpit of the Su-25 is devoid of the fancy electronics seen in most modern jets.  
    

  Lock On's design is extremely promising. It includes the A-10A, F-15C, Su-27, Su-25, Su-33, and 
 three variations of the MiG-29. Each aircraft is simulated with stunning attention to detail and 
 accuracy, resulting in each plane having a very distinct "personality." One of the key strengths 
 of Lock On is that the planes are so different and so detailed that you can spend many hours just 
 learning to fly and fight effectively in a single jet. For example, the A-10 Warthog ground assault 
 aircraft, a plane for which simmers have been clamoring for years, sports relatively simple avionics 
 compared to a modern air superiority jet (for instance, the F-15 or MiG-29) . But anyone who expects 
 to climb into Lock On's Warthog cockpit, load up with Maverick guided missiles, find some enemy 
 tanks, and simply push a button or two and watch the missiles mop up the tanks, is in for a major 
 surprise.  

  Mavericks here aren't magic missiles as they have been portrayed in most simulations. In Lock On, 
 you have to learn what a real A-10 pilot has to learn about weapons deployment with the AGM-65 
 Maverick. Specifically, you have to learn about how the missile "sees" the ground, the differences 
 in how the TV version and the IR version discerns a target from its background, how to fly to maximize 
 the range at which you can identify and lock on to a target, and more. And that's just the Mavericks. 
 You'll need to do the same for the unguided rockets and the awe-inspiring cannon -- all while learning 
 the details of the flight avionics in the A-10 cockpit and how the Warthog handles under various 
 conditions. Then, having developed proficiency with the A-10, you can start all over again in, 
 perhaps, one of the advanced air superiority fighters. Then you can learn the complexities of modern 
 air-to-air radar operation or perhaps how to destroy ground targets in the relatively crude, HUD-less 
 Su-25 Frogfoot. A simulation of any one of these aircraft, at this level of accuracy and detail, 
 would be a must-have for the serious flight sim fanatic. To have all of these disparate jets simulated 
 with such loving care is combat sim nirvana.  

  Not only are the flight models, weapons systems, and avionics beautifully simulated, but the same 
 attention to detail has been lavished on the graphics. Cockpits are reproduced in almost photographic 
 realism, with every dial and gauge operational. In fact, the cockpits are so lifelike that all 
 of the instruments in the Russian aircraft are labeled in Russian. The plane exteriors are rendered 
 in exquisite detail and actually include impressive damage modeling. Admittedly, all of the graphics 
 in Lock On, from the aircraft to the ground units to the cities and landscapes, are excellent and 
 are sure to please even the pickiest sim fans. But here is where the first problem rears its head. 
 In addition to odd graphics glitches that pop up here and there, if you turn all of the graphics 
 details on high, such as heat blur, high quality water, reflections, and so on, your computer will 
  not  be able to run Lock On smoothly through all of the various environments in which you will 
 fly.  

          The A-10 can take an enormous amount of damage and will still come home.     

  It doesn't 
 matter if you have a P4 3.2 GHz machine with one gig of RAM and a Radeon 9800 XT; it will bog down 
 at quite a few points in the game (bog down: defined as frame rates dropping into the single digits) . 
 The good news is that the game is designed to allow you to toggle a wide variety of graphics options 
 down or off. The bad news is that even with most of these turned down, high performance systems 
 will  still  occasionally experience poor frame rates. For example, flying just above a cloud base 
 will result in unacceptable stuttering on even the heftiest system. If you have a "moderate" setup, 
 say an AMD Athlon 2200+ or a P4 2.4 GHz, with a midrange GeForce or Radeon video card, you'll find 
 it difficult to find any settings that will allow you to play the game with consistently smooth 
 frame rates under all conditions (such as when flying low and encountering a high density of ground 
 units and terrain) . Until you either get a higher-end system or patches are distributed that improve 
 the graphics performance, midrange computer pilots would be well advised to stick to missions with 
 fewer ground objects and clear skies, and even users of bleeding-edge systems will have to be willing 
 to put up with occasional periods of molasses-slow frame rates.     

  With regard to the world in which you fly and fight in Lock On, there's good news and bad news. 
 Starting with the bad news: Lock On was originally intended to include that Holy Grail for flight 
 sim fanatics -- a fully dynamic campaign. Unfortunately, circumstances occurred that forced the developers 
 to abandon that system, thus resulting in a linear campaign consisting of a relatively small number 
 of "canned" missions that must be successfully completed in sequence. You can also fly a number 
 of single missions specifically designed for each aircraft, as well as "instant action"-style missions. 
 The good news is that the mission builder included in Lock On is outstanding in every way and combines 
 ease-of-use with a lot of power. A plethora of user-made missions and campaigns have already appeared 
 on the Internet. In fact, in many ways the campaigns and missions in Lock On almost feel more like 
 teaching examples of what can be done with the mission builder rather than presenting themselves 
 as critical parts of the simulation.  

          Some days you get the bear, and some days the bear gets you.     

  Speaking of teaching -- this 
 is an extremely complex and realistic simulation, and thus the weak documentation is all the more 
 disappointing. The small booklet included in the box is focused on getting up and running, in addition 
 to showing you how to use the mission builder. The very features that are the strengths of Lock 
 On -- the accurate simulation of a wide range of aircraft and weapons systems that are very unique 
 from aircraft to aircraft -- require a lot of documentation. It can be extremely frustrating, for 
 example, to finally figure out how to use a highly complex and realistic radar system, only to 
 find yourself stymied at why your missiles aren't locking on to a bogey. Unfortunately, the core 
 program documentation, presented in PDF form, is only fair in helping the novice understand how 
 to effectively use all of the avionics and weapons systems, and, even worse, many parts are incomplete 
 and inaccurate (note: be sure to read all of the readme files for errata) . The training missions, 
 which use all text rather than voice-overs, help explain quite a bit, but even with these, the 
 overall documentation falls far short of what's needed to get the most out of Lock On. In fact, 
 in recognition of the need for more documentation, a link on the Lock On home page points to a 
 third-party source that is selling an expanded manual (for about $56 with shipping) .  

  There are more issues that mar what is otherwise a superior simulation. Lock On suffers from numerous 
 bugs, as is unfortunately all too common with such complex games. Some are relatively minor, like 
 options that revert back to their previous settings. Some are serious but may take some time to 
 realize in such an intricate sim -- like a bug that causes you to essentially lose control over one 
 aspect of the F-15 radar system, problems with radar sensitivity at low altitudes, odd missile 
 behavior, problems with the padlock system, and more. And there is one absolute showstopper bug 
 for those who haven't yet upgraded to Windows XP. In spite of what it says on the box, the current 
 version of Lock On will not run on Windows 98 or Windows ME systems.  

  So, what's the bottom line on Lock On? It's absolutely a sim for the self-sufficient. To get the 
 most out of this product -- due to the poor documentation, bugs, graphics slowdowns, and so on -- you'll 
 need to do a lot of experimenting, tweaking, and reading of helpful hints, tips, and strategies 
 on Web forums that are dedicated to the game. The included campaign is short and fails to provide 
 that immersive feeling of being in a "live" war that you get in the best campaigns (such as those 
 found in Falcon 4 and even the old, venerable Red Baron 2) . If you have Windows 98, you'll have 
 to wait for a patch to be released before you can even think about playing.  

          Russian instruments are labeled in Russian only.     

  In spite of all of this, the 
 heart of Lock On is a truly great combat flight simulation. When you finally figure out how to 
 effectively get your AGM-65 to lock on to a dangerous mobile SAM unit in the middle of urban terrain; 
 when you finally become proficient at quickly switching radar modes and locking on to an enemy 
 fighter before he even knows you're in the air; when you finally appreciate how much you enjoy 
 the personality of the ugly, crude, but effective Su-25; when you finally realize that you've spent 
 hours and hours enjoying the unique attributes of one aircraft and still have several more to explore; 
 and when you finally and successfully complete a hairy cooperative online mission (online play 
 is very solid) , you'll understand that this is a truly special flight sim. Whether you wait for 
 some of the bugs to be ironed out (while this review is based on the initial release, we've seen 
 a 17 meg patch that addresses many of the problems discussed) , whether you wait to see what the 
 mod community comes up with, or whether you go ahead and purchase the game now is a matter of how 
 much you're willing to work around its initial problems. While it's a diamond in the rough in its 
 initial release form, there's enough depth and breadth here that there's no doubt at all that Lock 
 On is destined for greatness.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (36 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: uyjr
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 12:18 am PT
Review:  The conflict at the heart of Lock On takes place above and around the Black Sea. Based on precise 
 satellite data, the maps here are fantastically detailed and offer a reasonable variety of geography. 
 The fictional conflict allows players to take to the skies in eight separate planes. You can fly 
 fast and low in the A-10s and SU-25s, leap off the deck in your SU-33, or try your ass in the office 
 of the sleek F-15 or SU-27. There are also three separate versions of the MiG 29 to play with. 
 A range of play options are available right at the start, from the instant action missions to the 
 massively comprehensive mission editor. When you get in the air, you'll find that the challenge 
 level is quite high. (You can scale the difficulty by enabling unlimited ammo, fuel and limiting 
 crashes.) Even with the aids on, you'll find that the enemy offers a serious challenge having a 
 good understanding of energy management and radar profiles. As you might guess by now, this is 
 not an arcade style simulation and you'll need to have a serious understanding of how the systems 
 of each aircraft perform in real life if you're to have any hope of using them correctly in the 
 game. And there's a broad range of systems to understand here -- from the A-10's close-in ground 
 attack weapons to the long-distance dedications of the MiGs. The flight models in Lock On also 
 reveal a tremendous difference in performance based on the plane you choose. The A-10, certainly 
 a plane that sim-heads have a great affection for, feels much more straightforward than the MiGs 
 for instance. Thankfully there are a number of tutorials you can take on to learn the ins and outs 
 of the aircraft. Each plane has its own tutorial section that covers the specific abilities of 
 that plane. In this sense, Lock On really rewards the time you invest in it more so than a lot 
 of other sims. You'll also need to pay attention to the different cockpit layouts for each of the 
 planes. Those of you who are familiar with Russian acronyms will have an easier time reading the 
 Russian labels on the displays. In keeping with the sterile presentation of the rest of the game 
 shell, there are no voice overs in the cockpit and you'll be forced to read each tutorial tip as 
 it appears on the screen. And there's a lot to learn here. The radar model alone is quite comprehensive 
 and will take some getting used to on the part of new pilots. (There is a dumbed-down version of 
 the radar that simplifies many of the issues found in the real-world equivalents.) Things like 
 doppler effects and terrain masking are modeled in the game so you'll need to act smartly as well 
 as quickly to take advantage of every feature of this system. The upside to all this realism is 
 that you'll feel a tremendous sense of accomplishment once you figure out what the hell you're 
 doing. But it does take a while even for sim fans to wrap their brain around all the different 
 planes here, particularly when moving from the ground-oriented planes to the air-to-air ones. There's 
 a fairly cold approach to the between-mission briefings during the campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowop22
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  If I may start with a quick note.
  I have read many of the reviews on here, especially the negative ones. However, do not be discouraged 
 by these reviews. This game caters to the true flight sim aficionado.
  
  Those who complain simply lack the patience to learn the inner workings of the game. The rudders 
 work fine (contrary to another review) , the controls are easy to remember, and the cockpit realism 
 is astounding.
  
  Unlike Flight Simulator, I enjoy flying in Lock On. It is easy to get started, but it has enough 
 depth to allow for complete mastery of the jets. Also, unlike other jet combat games, this game 
 truly offers realism.
  
  Yes, you can select easy radar, easy targeting, etc. You can put labels on the enemy jets and missiles 
 to assist you. Or, you can turn it all off. The range in difficulty is amazing, and the tutorials 
 help you increase your skill.
  
  Yes, a few of the tutorials are a bit off in the graphic department (The A-10 Maverick Mission 
 for example) . However, if you are paying enough attention, you will understand exactly what he 
 means, and the glitch in the tutorial is only very minor.
  
  The game also has a great community, an astounding number of available modifications, and amazing 
 squadron support. Many famous virtual teams work with this game, including the Virtual Blue Angels 
 and Virtual Thunderbirds.
  
  The graphics are also very pretty for the age of the game.
  
  I would write more, and would have written better, but I must go. I only decided to write this 
 as to encourage those discouraged by the negative reviews. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ClassySloth
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  Well, to start off, I'd just like to say OVERALL, this is an excellent game. It's Flanker's hot, 
 19 year old sister, but better. Still lacks the ability to let the player fly American naval aircraft, 
 but it's great all the same.
  
  I have an ATi Radeon 9250 card, which has only DX8 support, yet if I turn down a few graphical 
 settings here and there, it works almost without a hitch. Not to mention only 512mb of RAM, and 
 a 2.8Ghz CPU.
  
  I think the best addition to this game was the ability to fly ground attack aircraft, and the online 
 play. Props to ubi. com for their free online play/providing a place to do so.
  
  This game could be greatly improved with another patch or 2. Maybe the ability to fly a single-seat 
 F/A-18C. That way, you could control all the planes functions, and there wouldn't be a realism 
 issue with a RIO in the backseat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 3, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  Lock on Modern Air Combat is a flight simulator is a realistic portrayl of Air combat today. The 
 story ranges from Russian rebels to the US fighting a Islamic Faction. The planes range from Well 
 known planes such as the amercian F15E and the Russian Mig-29. The gameplay is pretty fast paced 
 for a simulation but its just not fun at all. Its pretty repititive Blow up this tank shoot down 
 3 planes and return to base. Its not entertaning at all. The graphics are somewhat ok for a 2005 
 game and look realistic on high. Very detailed water and ground textures. The cockpit looks horrible 
 with almost unable to read words and the Russian planes are in well Acrylic Russian and there is 
 no option to turn that off. Sound is one of the only good points about this game becasue the jets 
 sounds are realistic and the explosions are nice. The soundtrack is pretty annoying on the start 
 menu with a mix of explosions, Ground Control chatter and Amercian and Russian piliots talking.. all 
 at the same time. This game is not worth the time or money .
  
  The Good: Semi Good Graphics, Ok Sound
  The Bad: Russian language in russian planes and no option 
 to turn off
  The Ugly: Everything Else 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertdamli
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  I have tried a lot of jetsims, but this most clearly be one of my favorites. Originally released 
 in 2003, even today it demands a powerful rig. There are not many american planes here, actually 
 just two, the F-15C and The A-10. There are many more russian jets, not a surprice as the developer 
 is coming from Russia. All planes are very well done with good avionics and modelling. It&acute; s 
 a big community out there, meaning you can download hundreds of mods, like more threes, less cpudemaning 
 water, high res skins etc, etc. All planes feel very good to steer. I recommend a good stick. Saitek 
 X52 is good. If you add rudder and Track Ir, you got yourself many hours of fun! There are also 
 a lot of servers out there where you can test your skills online. Big missions lasting hours of 
 hours.
  
  Of course there is a steep learning curve. I have printed out the whole manual, 276 pages. It takes 
 approximate 30-40 hours or so to fully understand how to use radar, different missiles and how 
 and when to use them etc. There are several virtual squadrons out there performing acrobatic flying 
 in formations, and who knows, mayby you will be on of them!? Thanx to the community there exists 
 a lot of mods. You can change the skin of you SU-27 for example, or change the scenery with more 
 buildings, railroads etc, change the sounds of the jet. I have 30 mods installed, some of them 
 gives me better fps, some adds more detail. It&acute; s kinda kool flying over a city and actually 
 see cars, trains or busses pass under you! I can&acute; t think of ANY jetsim that has this amount 
 of detail in a sim. I have a P4 3.0 GHZ, 2 GB RAM and 7600 GT videocard and have to set things 
 on medium! The only negative I can find about this game is sometimes the feel for speed. I have 
 tried many sims, and this one is closest to really feel your flying 700 knots. BUT, when flying 
 aroudn the mountains and diving around them, I feel that speed could be added like 1.5X or something. 
 Be sure to buy the addon Flaming Cliffs and download the latest patch 1.12B. (A if you use XP) . 
 Flaming Cliffs adds another plane, the SU-25T and fixes several bugs. Be sure to check out the 
 uservideos from Lock On F. C on youtube. com. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 31, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  Combat-flight-sim fans have been waiting a long time for this one. With no new A-list titles since 
 early 2000, PC jet jocks have been desperate to get Lock On. Well, this ambitious sim is finally 
 airborne. But while its dazzling to behold and a delight to fly, its still a couple of service 
 calls away from being finished.
  
  As with its parent game, Russian-built Flanker 2.5, LOMAC is a complex survey sim modeling six 
 of the most feared jet warplanes in military service today. The twist this time is that the Soviet-built 
 MiG-29, Su-27, and Su-33 aircraft from Flanker 2.5 are now complemented by a pair of NATO heavyweights 
  the F-15C Eagle and A-10A Warthog  plus the Russian Su-25. All six aircraft (eight, counting 
 model variants) have been so accurately modeled from cockpit to rudder that youll swear youre 
 watching an Air Force documentary.
  
  Factor in the detail of the cockpit layouts, and LOMAC could easily be mistaken for a single-plane 
 study sim like Falcon 4.0. The games exceptionally authentic flight, avionics, and damage modeling 
 are that remarkable.
  
  This rivet-by-rivet detail comes at a cost, however. Even cutting-edge PCs will cough up sizeable 
 hairballs as they struggle to animate these amazing visuals. Vexed by some ongoing lock-ups and 
 single-digit framerates from my modest Athlon 1600XP, I even took the unprecedented step of upgrading 
 my computer in mid-review  with surprisingly little effect. My new P4 2.8GHz/RADEON 9700 PRO rig 
 can barely eke out 20 frames per second when flying through the busier segments of LOMACs scripted 
 campaigns, and thats with the in-game graphics options turned down to Medium. This game may boast 
 the most gob-smacking pyrotechnics and visuals since IL-2 Sturmovik, but at their current level 
 of optimization, theyre more of a tease than a realistic play setting.
  
  LOMACs front-end menu sports an impressive selection of options, including Instant Action, Single 
 Mission, Fast Battle Planner, Replay, Encyclopedia, Pilot Log Book, Tutorial, Network, and Mission 
 Editor. The one that fails to deliver on its potential is the disappointing Campaign mode. LOMAC 
 offers four plane-specific campaigns, but each of these scripted six- or seven-mission affairs 
 is little more than a pre-set distribution of allied and enemy assets with some built-in win/lose 
 triggers. Damage tracking does occur between missions, and the campaigns target-rich environments 
 are quite intense, but they come at the expense of smooth framerates and overall playability.
 
  
  Its uninspired campaigns and choppy framerates aside, LOMAC still packs enough firepower to earn 
 itself a hitch on the hard drive of any serious sim buff. The enemy and wingman AI is solid, the 
 multiplay is stable, and the 28 tutorials are extremely well-scripted. That said, skimpy documentation 
 and a precipitous learning curve (even at the lowest difficulty levels) will almost certainly restrict 
 its appeal to veteran simmers.
  
  When the inevitable patches and mods do start shipping, Lock On is likely to transform from a stunning 
 but gawky debutante into the Grand Dame of modern flight sims. Until then, well all just have 
 to live with some occasional hissy fits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frost1e72
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2007 5:21 am PT
Review:  Original was bugged to hell , version 1.12 Flaming Cliffs add-on makes it all come true, awesome 
 entertainment especially multi-player.
  
  Needs dedication and patience to get to grips with due to high learning curve , also a HOTAS and 
 TrackIR would also make an excellent addition to improve your experience immensely.
  
  Majority of online play is played out on an online gaming lobby called HyperLobby where several 
 dedicated servers are set up for everything from red v blue fighter sweep and ground pounding to 
 varying co-op missions.
  
  If your bored of Falcon or tired of Ace-Combat the intensity and highly skilled action of going 
 up against and with real peeps online in LOMAC will keep your adrenaline running right through 
 till morning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amansandhu
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2007 12:39 am PT
Review:  When I bought this game opps!!! sorry SIMULATION better keep this in mind anyway I was so excited 
 &amp; looking forward to it. After installation &amp; running it I immediately uninstalled it &amp; 
 forgot about it why this game was too ahead of it's time graphics wise &amp; at that time my PC 
 was not able to run it. After a couple of months I upgraded my PC reinstalled it &amp; I was completely 
 lost &amp; disappointed cause this game was too hard to even understand &amp; the tutorials were 
 making me more angry cause I wanted to play this master piece right a way so I uninstalled it again. 
 However just recently I decided to give this game another shot &amp; I said to myself that I'll 
 give this game time &amp; patience &amp; a fair chance to see whether it was any good. After going 
 through the tutorials &amp; learning the keys &amp; giving it a lot of time all I can say is OH 
 MY GOD!!!! What a fantastic simulation game this is. Everything which made no sense at first was 
 now completely blowing my mind away. The graphics the detail the whole experience is amazing. All 
 I can say to anyone who wants to like this game but is finding it hard to do is that give it time 
 learn everything you can cause it'll be worth it in the end. Now I can't get enough of this superb 
 game &amp; it's really a master piece which needs time to sink in. Get this game if you haven't 
 yet &amp; if you have &amp; thrown it away cause of it's difficult learning curve than I suggest 
 give it another go after installing the latest patch &amp; it'll definitely be worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamehereo92
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 12, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Lock On is a great game and one of the few combat jet sims that uses real flightdynamics and not 
 some arcadey crap. Some people complain that It's just too hard or something to that effect. Learn 
 tactics to survive. At first this game is buggy but download and install the patches and a lot 
 of problems are solved. You also need a good graphics card to run the game. A crap integraded chip 
 won't do. You need a powerfull card to squeeze all the graphical juice out of it. This game kicks 
 the crap out of arcade jet sims that everyone is used to playing. Then they get to the big boy 
 toys and complain and whine all day long. Look if you can't play the game, keep it to your self 
 I don't want to hear it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ixtykurrumi
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  Ok lets start, the graphics of this game are good great at least the ones of the planes the ones 
 on the floor are not so good but unles you crash you wont be looking them, this is a very complete 
 flight sim. it is good but you got to have pacience because it takes a lot of time to learn to 
 play it once you have learned all the basics at least it is very good i dont know to play it perfectly 
 but i do know the basics so i tell you what i know the sound is very good but also you got to have 
 at least an idea of a fly sim. because is a very hard game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trooper72
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 21, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  I purchased Lock On, then had the chance to purchase Lock on, Flaming Cliffs almost immediately. 
 I should have play tested the initial purchase before buying the upgrade.
  
  Graphics are excellent and you can jump in straight away and start enjoying the view. This though 
 is where it starts to go downhill.
  
  After messing around in the skies and getting the feel, I started to move on to the tutorials. 
 All very pretty by the way. I noticed that during the Maverick missions, the on board pilot was 
 narrating things that simply weren`t happening. there we have a target, cross is flashing showing 
 we are locked on and in range, RIFLE . And off the missile went. The problem being that there was 
 nothing even remotely locked on in the target window, let alone a flashing cross. Still, he was 
 enjoying himself as I got more and more frustrated. He was narrating events that I was oblivious 
 to.
  
  I persevered with this and got to the point where I took control. First of all, the trimming is 
 a pain in the A##s#. You trim it and it responds as if youve added 10 tons of scrap metal to the 
 tail and you turn into a rocket heading for the moon. You trim down and suddenly it turms into 
 the mole from Thunderbirds and starts heading for the earths core!!. Fine control it isnt. Way 
 overmodelled.
  
  Even in the easy radar mode. You chose a target by pressing the Tab key and the system selects 
 a target. Take it out, press Tab again, select a target, take it out etc. Then it refuses to respond. 
 You press Tab again and nothing gets selectes so all your missiles are effectively defunct and 
 you have to take out everything with your gatling gun. Not very survivable if they have AAA and 
 Sams in tow.
  
  OK, I`ll start on the ground then. Finally manage to spool the engines up, throttle up, start to 
 taxi............ cant taxi cos I cant steer the bloody thing on the ground. Plough a field through 
 the runway grass!
  
  The wingman is asking permission to engage, follow the manual which says press \ to access radio. 
 sweet FA. No radio. Stop the mission. go back to the controls option AGAIN, to try and see what 
 the correct key press is. Turns out that I`m pressing the right key but nowts happening.
  
  Now some smart alec is going to pick holes in this by saying things like all you have to do to 
 steer the a/c on the ground is pres (whatever) . But finding the correct key press is a nightmare. 
 What ever happened to User Friendly? Surely, steering left or twisting left on the joystick on 
 the ground should taxi the a/c! Makes sense, no?
  
  I know that all the keys are configurable, but there are so many. I might be better off joining 
 the RAF and flying for real.
  
  This is a gorgeous sim to look at, but a real PITAr##e to fly.
  
  Really disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmb34
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 19, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  I was frustrated with this game at first but the more I tried the more I learned and now I cant 
 stop playing it. I dont think this is the hardest flight sim but maybe next to the hardest. I think 
 it has the best graphics for any pc jet sim so far and it takes a beast of a computer to run it 
 maxed out. A controller/flight stick is a must and adds to the realism of the game, also every 
 single key on a standard keyboard serves a function in this game. As others have said there are 
 big rewards to be reaped if you are willing to take some time to learn all the functions. Plenty 
 of forums and modders out there to keep this game alive for years to come and I highly recommend 
 this game to anyone interested in jet sims. BTW I only paid $10 for this game and I have spent 
 alot of hours playing it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FSoldier
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 4, 2006 5:06 am PT
Review:  This is a great game if you learn fly the planes and use them. But if you don't know all there 
 is to know it's not good.
  
  This game would be better if there is more flyable aircrafts like F/A 18C and F-16C. Great graphics 
 too ,but when the whole sky is covered with clouds fps drops a lot and combat is hard and flying 
 is not joy-able all the time on my computer.. I have played about 10 missions passed and that is 
 not all I will play all hte missions, I wont stop playing this game until I pass all the missions.
 
  
  That's my option. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonLord1975
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 12, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  It has been a long time coming for a combat flightsim to be so immersive. The graphics are as near 
 photorealistic as you can get without spending tons of money. The flight dynamics are realistic 
 yet it has a great learning curve for the novice pilot. The fact that the amount of nationalities 
 that are represented in it just makes it all the much more enjoyable along with the fact that they 
 have modeled the ranks and awards for those countries. I would highly recommend this to anyone 
 and hope they come out with more like this one. My only gripe is the lack of a dynamic campaign 
 so the reply value is a little lacking. Overall, I am extremely pleased with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobb5
Rating: 3.3
Date: Aug 12, 2006 10:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is WAY too hard to get control of unless your life is based on planes for a start! Although 
 the graphics are good, the ground and splash effects look like crap. Really, I was not at all interested 
 in this game so I really don't think anyone other than a plane expert would like this game so I 
 would have to give this bad game, a 3 out of 10! And the sound was fairly good also. And the gameplay 
 was craptastic, the value was not at all good, and that is what I think of this game, now go away! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warglom
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  This is a GREAT flight sim, its got AMAZING graphics, its VERY realistic, but not as realistic 
 as games like Falcon 4.0 (VERY REALISTIC, but still fun) so its easier to get into. It doesnt have 
 many flyable planes but you dont have to worry about that because theres a mod that makes EVERY 
 PLANE FLYABLE (But with an Su-37 cockpit so if you want a REALISTIC feel, you might wanna find 
 a mod for JUST that plane, cockpit and all) you have plenty of options so you can make it as hard 
 or easy as you want. Its a great game, for simmers and casual gamers alike. and you dont even need 
 an over the top setup to play! This is a GREAT game. BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stephencole
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 19, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  I love the way this game is so different than many other Combat Flight Sims. I hate when you can 
 just press a button and you instantly lock on. Its just boring like that. But thank god that there 
 is a sim in which you have to actually acquire a heat signature of a tank before you can fire an 
 IR Maverick, not an easy feat if the tank is near any buildings. Many a time i have managed to 
 blast apart some old grannies cottage... poor miss gladys. Anyway this game delivers so much realism, 
 it really makes you FEEL like a fighter pilot. Oh and the BF2 thing, well lets just say i dont 
 want a load of n00bs recking the game with patches, as happened with BF2, e. g. OH the support kit 
 is underpowered, so EA makes the machine gun super accurate. So i Do Not want that to happen with 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonygrech
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 16, 2006 2:39 am PT
Review:  This flight sim will blow your mind.
  
  With the right hardware and after a patch update, you have a sophisticated, highly realistic combat 
 flight simulator. Ten years ago an experience like this would have been impossible without access 
 to a commercial flight simulator. Now it's available on your home PC.
  
  For goodness sake, you have the chance to be a fighter pilot! This is 
  awe inspiring stuff and 
 this game has the potential to thrill you like no other computer game. Hang on a moment though, 
 flight sims are considered boring right? Actually no, the problem is nobody knows how to bloody 
 play them!
  
  First off, NO ONE READ MANUALS ANYMORE. Secondly, whether it's Microsoft Flight Simulator, Falcon 
 4.0 or LOCK ON the 'in game' training is a joke. I am desperate to know how fly these sims, but 
 I am not going to read a manual 200 pages long. I want my training 'in game'. I want it to be snappy, 
 clear and of a high quality. Can you actually think of a flight sim that has been able to do this? 
 
  
  There are some really good flight sims around. LOCK ON is definitely one of them. The 'in game' 
 training is inadequate and it makes me really angry and frustrated. I want to be a 'top gun', I 
 want to splash a mig. In the end, I end up fiddling with a few buttons, can just about master take 
 off and landing. I look at some outside views and say 'wow' that looks neat. I guess I might knuckle 
 down and work how to play this sim properly. But that's not fun, and I firmly believe with the 
 right guidance, an above average gamer can have the an awesome gaming experience with most sophisticated 
 of flight sims.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joe185467
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 10, 2006 10:03 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 6. Short, scripted campaigns. Nothing to get very excited about. Lock On is a survey 
 sim; don't expect much detail.
  
  Graphics: 10. This game has the best graphics to date for a flight sim, very enjoyable!
  
  
 Sound: 7. Nothing special. The cockpit noise is rather unrealistic though.
  
  Value: 8. A powerful mission editor allows decent replay value. Not much to be said here.
  
 
  Reviewers Tilt: 8. I enjoyed for a while, but it wore off sooner than I would have liked.
  
  Summary: If you want to have fun and don't expect too much detail, by all means, buy it! However, 
 if you are expecting high realism, don't get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miessneram
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 13, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Definitely one of the Great Sims to date. The graphics are cutting edge
  and well developed. The flight characteristics are dead on, with little left
  to desire. This 
 sim has a big future, with a lot of possibilities. The AI is well
  written and can pose a challenge to anyone even the most seasoned fly'er. The operator gets to 
 select how intense the action will be in the extensive Mission Builder and Editor. The Sim would 
 be a complete package if it had 
  more aircraft to choose from. I hope they write Add-ons for additional flyable aircraft, in particular 
 the F/A-18 and/or F-16. Overall a top notch sim every 
  Sim'er must experience at least once.
  
  
  Bonus:
  -Awesome Graphics
  -Realistic flight 
 characteristics
  -On-line play is well developed
  -Game support is quickly growing for updates
  
  Bogus:
  -Only two flyable U. S. aircraft
 
  -Occasional game crash due to unfixed bugs.
  
  Overall:
  -A very capable Sim with a big future. Recommend to any Sim'er.
  A must-have for anyone's collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dertinmann
Rating: 3.6
Date: Mar 22, 2006 11:54 am PT
Review:  The graphics are brilliant, if you have a NASA supercomputer. (and even then it will stutter) . 
 Sound is decent although a wider range of sounds would have been better.
  
  Now the simulation, that is what sets this game apart from other Jet sims. Simply put: its realistic 
 and the learning curve is endless.
  
  But who cares: this is an UNFINISHED game. My copy always needs a reinstall after 2-3 hours of 
 gametime. That is quite interesting: if its not broken from the start it becomes broken once you 
 set your preferences and save a few games...
  
  Do not buy this, it is not and never will be a good game especially since its SP campaign was 
 rushed and cant be finished after mission 4. (unless your editor works, mine does not) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poopskadoop
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 5, 2006 5:24 pm PT
Review:  If you are a fan of immersive flight simulators, then read on. If you're looking for a quick and 
 easy arcade flight game, stop, and go look elsewhere. This game takes a certain degree of patience 
 and a bit of determination, but the satisfaction you will have after finally mastering how to shoot 
 down that F-15 is uncomparable.
  
  This game allows you to fly the MiG-29, Su-27, Su-33, A-10, F-15, Su-25, and Su-25T (with the Flamming 
 Cliffs addon) . Each aircraft offers a unique experience and is simulated to be as close to the 
 real thing as is possible for a commercial flight simulator. This means you will have a bit of 
 a learning curve trying to get used to each different cockpit, but that's part of the fun. In fact, 
 you will find that you are best at flying a certain plane. That aircraft then becomes "your's," 
 so to speak. Flying these impressive aerial weapons requires some knowledge and a lot of trial 
 and error. Fortunately, each aircraft has a tutorial associated with it that makes the learning 
 process much less painfull.
  
  Remember, this is a simulator, not really a game. Assuming you are playing the game as it is meant 
 to be (full simulation difficulty) , you may die not even knowing where the enemy is. In order to 
 destroy your opponent, you have to manually track them with your radar. There is no simple  
 type of deal. You will have to take into account your airspeed, your altitude, the amount of enemies, 
 and your armament in order to make your missile reach its target. It's a very complicated process, 
 and I was shot down what seems like hundreds of times before I learned how to even mount an aggressive 
 defense. Stick with it, though, and you will be rewarded. I promise. 
  
  That said, this game offers a very detailed flight model for all of the aircraft. The Su-25T (you 
 simply must purchase the flamming cliffs addon) is modelled to such detail that it is almost rather 
 frightening. I myself enjoy flying the Su-27 most of all. Whether you enjoy tank killing with the 
 A-10 or flying air superiority with the F-15, you will most certainly find an aircraft that suits 
 your style best.
  
  The graphics are decent, especially for the Su-25T. It's nothing to go crazy over, but, as far 
 as I know, it's the best for this particular genre. The sound, too, is nothing amazing, but it 
 gets the job done. One more vice to note is the lack of a dynamic campaign, something that can 
 make the gameworld feel a little less life-like. However, there are many user-made missions and 
 campaigns waiting to be downloaded. If you care enough, you will always have something relatively 
 new to play.
  
  Finally, make sure to purchase the Flamming Cliffs addon if you're going to buy this game. It makes 
 the experience that much better. It would also be a wise investment to procure a decent joystick. 
 Don't expect any enjoyment out of this game using your old MS sidewinder. You'll need something 
 a little more serious, such as a Saitek X-52. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blahhaa32
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 7, 2006 12:02 am PT
Review:  i went out and bought lock-on gold now im not to sure if its the same as displayed on gamespot 
 but it had a bad disk it was made from evloved games i went to there web site and found a RECALL 
 . So followed what the said to get my new disk real nice but yet to see the disk , its only been 
 a week now . as far as the game goes i have played the disk one lockon its ok to play the keys 
 are hard to figure out not for the novice gamer like me i would stay away from this game you just 
 dont jump in and fly as far as the bad disk they should of caught it before it was shiped shame 
 shame you wont get me to buy an evloved game agian fyi it the seconded disk that is bad and you 
 can see the missing data on the outside ring of the disk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbilbija
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 5, 2006 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Sorry if I spell something wrong, but I just got to say few words about this game... This game is 
 most realistic flight sim ever made-How do I know that? I talked with one guy who also play "lock 
 on" and he is real combat pilot at the age of 42-he said this game is very realistic, all systems 
 from weapon to navigation are very similar to real RUS plane-how does he know that-well he spent 
 many flying hours at russian type planes so he sure knows way MIG works... There is no dynamic campagin-and 
 there is no need for one. This is not HL2 or doom 3 to have storyline this is FLIGHT SIMULATION 
 not story of some guy running around, killing bad guys and saving pretty ladies. There is a mission 
 editor who allow you to create what ever mission type you want-from intercept to acrobatics, with 
 all ground vehicles and SAM sites from 60`s Kub to modern Patriot. Every ground vehicle have its 
 own behaviour and they are all different in many aspects, so lock on isn`t just best flight sim 
 it is also one of best strategy games ever built. Second It is also best graphic game in gaming 
 world-models are very detailed and complex for lets say SU 25t in FLAMING CLIFFS (dont know any 
 model that is so detailed in all games not just flight sim) Sounds are good, they sound even bether 
 if you download some add on"sound pack". What to say about multiplayer-you all know this community 
 is most dedicated of all. Try one dog fight on the net and you will see what mean real fight-It`s 
 all about your skill, knowledge and of course luck, it`s not just aim and shoot...
  Only problem are bugs and low fps even on hi tech machines, but all of this can be exceeded if using 
 patches and add ons, well most of it, but nothing should represent problem for real virtual pilot 
 if you patient enough... Well put it this way-LOCK ON will be simulation to be played for a long 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usn
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 4, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  Starting way back with the original SU-27 and graduating to Lock On was quite a process.... lots 
 of patches, hopes, etc. Lock on has all the bells and whistles, but still feels like Flanker 2.5 
 as far as gaming experience. If I could take Falcon 3.0's campaign feel and add it to F-15's combat 
 environment, then mix in a small amount of Forgotten Battles, I might feel like this was how Modern 
 Air Combat felt. If there is a wish list, get the "sim Honchos", to come up with a flight sim that 
 really delivers in terms of graphics, levels of realism and dynamic campaigns, and are not trying 
 to convert "armchair pilots" into screamin' demons.... I only hope flight sims
  are not passe... maybe there is still hope? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: velociraptor
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 15, 2005 4:52 am PT
Review:  This is along the lineage of simulators that give you the BEST EXPERIENCE OF FLIGHT EVER. Beware, 
 its not a arcade game... you cannot jump in and expect to finsih the 'SIM' in a specific hours. 
 It takes PRACTICE and learning. Each of the 6 aircrafts are different and need their own specific 
 training. 
  
  LOCK ON release was definately supposed to be a BETA. However, patch 1.02 brings it to perfect 
 status apart from minor bugs. THANKS TO UBISOFT's stupid attitude to release this game when it 
 was not ready and not let the devs finish the game it is in such a sorry situation. 
  
  COMPARE the marketing of LOCKON to games like splintercell... for heck, they did not even make a 
 good installer for it... let alone find time to make a manual. 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  NEW CHAPTER:::: 
 LOCKON : FLAMING CLIFFS
  
  An independent addon from EAGLE DYNAMICS (unofficial)
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  I should atleast 
 be thankful for ubisoft to NOT POKE THEIR NOSE in this new addon.
  
  FLAMING CLIFFS is definately deserved to be ranked in the INNOVATION in SIMULATIONS. just as ragdoll 
 is to first person shooters.... AFM.. ADVANCED FLIGHT MODEL in FLAMING CLIFFS is the best ... mark 
 my words ,... THE BEST REPRESENTATION of combat aircraft.... alas!! only SU 25T and su 25 get the 
 honours to be given this model with around 40 objects independently modelled in them like... fuesalage, 
 engines etc... So DAMAGE MODEL IS ironically OUTSTANDING. 
  
  Su 25T has 52000 polygons.... you can close ur mouth now..... I don't know a game that has that 
 many polys for a single element. 
  
  Of course detail comes with price.... performance lows. DO NOT EVEN DARE to compare this to hl2 
 or doom3 as they are no where close to the WORLD modelled in lomac. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 19734739732876576485538515389630-elLOCOmutha
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2005 5:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun and you will not be dissapointed in it at all. It might not please everyone 
 in the group but for what you get in the game it will not be a waste of your time.
  
  Some games you get and you just feel let down and ripped off well this game isnt one of those types. 
 I believe there will be a community for this game for some time to come and the support for it 
 will be around awhile also.
  
  The graphics and sound quality are great and wont be out of date for a long time. Overall you probably 
 will leave this on your computer and not uninstall it anytime soon.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake22
Rating: 4.9
Date: Oct 7, 2004 3:52 pm PT
Review:  I wanted to like Lock-On. I have been wanting a good jet fighter combat flight sim for quit a long 
 time and this looked like it was it. That was until I found out no Saitek X-45 Joystick compatability... BIG 
 mistake. Needless to say I didnt play it much due to myself owning a Saitek X-45 and not wanting 
 to do keyboard flying (shudders) . If they you can use the X-45 now then it might raise a few notches 
 in my mid...... but too little too late. So I will just sit here and wait for a game company to 
 know what they are doing and put out a game that is actually compatiable with one of the most popular 
 sticks out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badkarma77
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 4, 2004 1:59 am PT
Review:  If you're looking for a flying game with a story line this SIM is not for you. If you've logged 
 literally hundreds of flying hours on the likes of Falcon 4.0, Jane's F/A-18 and Flanker 2.5 then 
 this SIM is right up you're ally. While the sounds are nothing really to brag about the graphics 
 are absolutely stunning. The AI is pretty good on both sides. The weapon systems are accurately 
 detailed but the weapons themselves are sometimes a little screwy. Detail, detail and more detail. 
 This SIM is very in depth and has a pretty steep learning curve. If you don't appreciate intricate 
 detail of all the complex aviation/combat systems then look elsewhere for your flying fun. You 
 can literally spend months just mastering one aircraft. I have spent many weeks in the A10 and 
 I'm still learning. And I've hardly flown the other aircraft available in the SIM. One of the biggest 
 drawbacks for this SIM is lack of documentation and it will be difficult for the beginner to get 
 started. However, as a combat flight SIM, LOMAC is great and well worth the time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kwonsoo
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 18, 2004 6:30 am PT
Review:  I only have brief comments with regards to this game:
   Right now, I consider it the best way to strap into a modern simulated aircraft. There is no 
 better way. 
   The learning curve would be ridiculous if I had not played other flight simulators before.
 
   As a person who has played many flight sims, but is in not way a Top Gun, Im still having 
 a blast with the game.
   Printed documentation is all but non-existent, but online (and on-CD) resources provide you with 
 what you need to get the job done.
   I cant wait to upgrade my 2-year old video card (my systems current bottleneck) to the next 
 generation so I can crank up these awesome graphics.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: martinsabran
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2004 8:04 am PT
Review:  This game is just unbeatable... i give it a 10 for the simple reason to rate it higher than the 
 other wrong review. I believe that this sim is the best of the best sim game out there. It is not 
 a game for a game... In my opinion, no other sim has graphics that good. no other sim has so much 
 little detailed that good. no other sim has that various planes. 
  Of course the initial release is buggy and very desapointing, but with the fan base community out 
 there it is a lot better and for no reason it should have a Gamespot that bad. for a lot of people 
 not rating games in Gamespot it is THE flight sim of history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faabound
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 24, 2003 8:22 am PT
Review:  I want to start off by saying this is a GAME, not a sim. UBI has simply missed the mark with this 
 buggy title. A soon to be released patch will supposedly fix this. This game is no FALCON 4, the 
 graphics are leaps and bounds better than Falcon 4 but the similarities stop there. Average flight 
 model , and HORRIBLE weapon system modelling mar what could have been a great program. 
  
  Weapons employment is simply not realistic at all. Missiles that should have 30+ mile ranges miss 
 at 8, The gun on the F-15 even has a bug to stop it from being accurate. 
  
  The sound is good, while it works, there is a bug where the company asks that you turn off all 
 sound hardware acceleration. This is because acceleration on most SB cards causes choppy static-ridden 
 gibberish. 
  
  All this being said it has great potential. The company removed the dynamic campaign and said there 
 are no plans to put it back in , strange if oyu are looking for long term playability. 
  
  If you want a great weapons modeling and realistic air operations , get Falcon 4 with FF and SP3. 
 If you want descent flight models , get FS 2004. 
  
  If you want all of the above , wait for the patch! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 13, 2003 3:26 am PT
Review:  I was anticipating this game for so long after seeing the wonderful in-game-movies promising a 
 never before seen attention to detail, and boy was I dissapointed when I finally got my hands on 
 it...
  
  The graphics is good, and I am lucky enough to have a PC powerful enough to run this baby with 
 all the goodies turned on. But, it is not WOW good. I had many more WOW experiences when flying 
 Microsoft Flight Simulator when it comes to memorable scenarios and graphical wonders, and that 
 sim came out quite some time ago now.
  
  Where the game really suck is when it comes to gameplay and especially atmosphere. I have come 
 to expect from modern games to have a storyline that draws you into the game. Here there is no 
 story, just missions generated by a mission designer. This technical approach removes the human 
 touch completely, and leave you with a very cold and uninspiring flight sim. It is like playing 
 Age of Mythology where all the unique units and story line is replaced with anonymous robots that 
 say beep when you click them.
  
  Suck factor two is the steep learning curve. I have to admit the lack of atmosphere and story failed 
 to motivate me to involve myself properly with the game, which actually is a big job you should 
 get paid for doing. And, I want to mention that I gladly spent a lot of time getting into Microsoft 
 Flight Simulator 2004, which is also considered to be a very accurate sim with tons of features, 
 but this game was just too much.
  
  I might be wrong trashing the game, you might see the light if you give it time and lots of patience, 
 caring more about accurate technical facts than having an entertaining game. My advice is to try 
 out the demo, the full game is not much more interesting, so it gives you a good feeling of what 
 to expect.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pmonneo
Rating: 6.6
Date: Dec 10, 2003 3:37 am PT
Review:  All through the cold of November i wait patiently for this game to be released... As the date got 
 closer i got more excited and couldn't wait to get my hands on what promised to be this years and 
 maybe next years top flight sim.... The day came I got it.. And rushed home pushing people out 
 of my way in Anticipation...
  Stuck the Game in barely allowing my CD-drive to Open loaded her up and bang my machine crashed.... 
 ok.... i can take it ... try again.... bang .... gone again... ok onto the net... found one or 
 two helpful hints changed a few settings and loader her up again... Cool... she's working.... lets 
 see .. a quick mission to test the water... not bad... good graphics... pretty good game play... 
 not that impressed... ohh ohh there's a enemy.. bang crashed again... (my machine that is) .... I've 
 had this game for 2 weeks and i haven't had a decent run at it .. it stall's .. it crashes... it 
 makes weird sounds... it's gameplay isn't all it's cracked up to be... I could use bad language 
 but i won't... why are games that are full of bug's released... (apart from companies not giving 
 a **** and hungry for profits) why are games released for Pentium 5 standards when the best available 
 is not enough... DO YOURSELF A FAVOUR... BUY SIMCITY OR SOMETHING AND LEAVE YOUR BLOOD PRESSURE 
 ALONE.....! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: westy159
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 2, 2003 5:20 pm PT
Review:  One thing you need to keep in mind with LOMAC is that you will need a very powerful system to run 
 it at the maximum detail settings. Even with a 3 GHz P4 / 1 Gig Ram / 256 mb 5900 Ultra card, I 
 cannot run this game at max settings and get a decent FPS.
  
  The game also has some bugs in the release version but I expect them to get sorted out pretty soon.
 
  
  If you are a fan of flight sims, you probably bought the game already (not like we have a lot of 
 options) . If you are a casual gamer, LOMAC is probably worth picking it up once the bugs get sorted 
 out with some patches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frost451
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 28, 2003 5:41 pm PT
Review:  What can I say abou this sim? Its is unmatched and will not be topped by Microsoft, EA, or Activision 
 any time soon. It has the best graphics of any computer game I have ever seen. You feel like you 
 have control of the planes unlike Janes USAF and most other smims. There are so many options for 
 views that you wont be able to rembmer all of them. This game is just outstanding in almost all 
 aspects. You wont be able to run this sim with the graphics turned all the way up. Why, because 
 computers are not yet fast enough to push this sim as far as it can go. Years from now people will 
 still be playing this, just like Falcon 4. Yes, it really is that good. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
