-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Loki: Heroes of Mythology
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/loki/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Outstanding atmosphere in four different campaigns.
 Impressive straightforward clone of Diablo game mechanics.
 Great monster variety.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Never strays from familiar territory.
 Extremely tough on the easiest difficulty setting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 12, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 5.9, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 647 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Dreamcatcher
Developer: Cyanide
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date:     Oct 2, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Loki may be awfully late for the party, but this Diablo derivation is a solid rip-off with great 
 game mechanics and atmosphere. 

  Somebody needs to tell Cyanide that it's a little late in the day to be ripping off Diablo II. 
 That seven-year-old action RPG provides the template for Loki: Heroes of Mythology, a derivative 
 hack-and-slash that brings nothing new to the genre. Still, being late for the party is the only 
 major strike against this game. Even though the Diablo formula may seem awfully ho-hum these days -- especially 
 in this case, since Titan Quest covered the mythological-heroes shtick over a year ago -- good mechanics 
 and great atmosphere make up for the lack of innovation.  

  Despite the title, Loki has an equal-opportunity philosophy when it comes to ancient mythology. 
 You choose from male or female warrior and mage characters from the Norse, Greek, Egyptian, and 
 Aztec traditions and engage in four different lengthy campaigns that can be played solo or with 
 up to six friends in cooperative mode (although there is no matching server, so it can be tough 
 to hook up with fellow players) . Things start off with you playing errand boy for the three principal 
 gods in your pantheon (a lineup that includes heavy hitters such as Athena, Isis, Tyr, Quetzalcoatl, 
 and the like) , but then move on to you defending a collection of multicultural divinities that 
 looks like an old United Colors of Benetton ad. The end goal is to defeat the machinations of the 
 evil Egyptian god, Seth, who has defied divine rules and crossed into other mythologies in the 
 standard megalomaniacal bad-guy quest to take over the universe.  

            Hacking through yet another pack of those pesky half-naked Amazons.      

  As this 
 hook-snouted deity is also apparently a big fan of all things multicultural, you face a hodge-podge 
 of monsters from across the entire mythological spectrum. But each of the four campaigns is based 
 on the character battling beasts from his or her own milieu. So the Greek warrior begins by cutting 
 down hundreds of Amazons, centaurs, and harpies, for instance, while the Norse fighter slaughters 
 beasts of the North like bears and wolves, the Egyptian sorcerer battles desert creatures such 
 as giant scorpions, mummies, and scarab beetles, and the Aztec shaman fights jaguars and giant 
 tarantulas.  

  All of them look great (although, oddly enough, the same can't be said for the four heroes, who 
 are thin mannequins who move in a slightly herky-jerky fashion) , and are accentuated with creepy 
 sound cues. Many of these sound effects, such as the hissing of vipers, are so effective that they 
 give the game a menacing vibe that usually isn't present in speedy, action-oriented RPGs. Some 
 monster types are relatively generic and can be found across different levels, although these creatures 
 are often given differing characteristics based upon their location. Birds of prey, for example, 
 look like eagles in the forested Greek missions, while in the Egyptian desert levels they appear 
 as scruffy vultures. The monster variety in Loki is quite good -- even though you still wind up killing 
 so many birds, beasts, and living fauna over the course of the game that the proceedings can get 
 rather monotonous in spots (Amazon lancers? Again?!) .  

  Additional atmosphere comes from music and level design that really plays up the four mythologies. 
 The original score is fantastic, immersing you in each of the four cultures through tunes that 
 perfectly evoke the setting and time. All are decidedly spooky, too, specifically the Greek and 
 Egyptian scores. They wouldn't be out of place in big-budget horror movies about Medusae and mummies. 
 Visuals tie into the music for the most part. The Egyptian campaign is particularly effective, 
 as it takes you into desert wastes and forbidding tombs, although the snowy wastes of the Norse 
 missions and the jungles of the Aztec escapades are almost equally evocative of ancient myths (the 
 Greek settings go a little too heavy on generic fantasy forests) . Cyanide apparently uses a random 
 level generator to mix things up, though, which makes your travels look a little mundane after 
 a while. You encounter a lot of the same terrain, and outdoor maps often seem to be laid out on 
 a template. You generally get a single road leading from point A to point B along with a lot of 
 scrub brush to both sides that is packed with enemies.  

  Quests themselves are more varied, however, as they're drawn from specific myths. You check out 
 what rival gods are plotting for Athena, explore the tomb of Seth, rescue Odin from the clutches 
 of Fenrir, and so forth. Storylines aren't really developed, though. Generally, you just walk over 
 to the deity of the moment, who's typically loitering around the hub of each campaign as if waiting 
 for a bus, and take your marching orders. These orders always involve straightforward objectives 
 like looking into some sort of mystery, such as seeing if Seth's body remains in its sarcophagus, 
 investigating the deadly machine that Minos seems to be constructing, or going out to murder some 
 deadly threat like the Medusa.  

  Regardless of your goal in Loki, you always get there the same way -- by bloodily slaughtering an 
 endless horde of monsters. This Diablo-styled theme was old when the world was young, but Loki 
 still manages to mostly pull it off by sticking to the template. The only serious annoyance is 
 extreme difficulty even on the easiest "mortal" game setting. Enemies are so numerous in spots 
 that you need to wage a war of attrition to make it through many maps. You start off by killing 
 as many monsters as you can before succumbing to their crazy numbers, then respawn at the start 
 of the level and repeat. Over and over again. Many levels require seven or eight instances of this 
 frustrating wash, rinse, and repeat cycle. Even worse, there are moments when the game engine can't 
 keep up with the number of monsters onscreen. In some of the Greek forest missions, for example, 
 the combination of dozens of flying foes and the heavily treed landscape turns the game into an 
 instant, unplayable slideshow. Thankfully, these slowdowns are rare.  

           Mummies haunt the tomb of Seth in the Egyptian part of the campaign.       

  Despite 
 the overall difficulty, everything moves along pretty quickly. Even though you have to repeat yourself 
 a little too often, you still easily get into a killing groove balanced just about perfectly between 
 addiction and monotony. The only thing that slows you down is the regular 20-second or so wait 
 after battles to regenerate health and mana. As with every other good action RPG ever made, you 
 know that you're just clicking mouse buttons over and over again, but the pace of combat and the 
 collection of magical weapons and other goodies (the usual assortment of swords, armor, and potions, 
 with some cultural characteristics tossed in mainly to differentiate one style of clothing from 
 another) is so speedy that you can barely bring yourself to stop playing.  

  Character development is an equal mix of the simple and compelling. Leveling up is a quick process 
 of assigning points to attributes like strength and vitality. Added special battle abilities are 
 gained with points earned every time you max out your faith bar. Basically, this lets you suck 
 up to your three principal gods and take on combat buffs like Thor's Bull's Charge and spells like 
 Ra's Fireball. The whole faith system is actually laid out in a very similar fashion to the skill 
 masteries in Titan Quest, although the number of options here are even more varied. You're generally 
 stuck on a linear path when picking abilities, however, so this doesn't afford a great deal of 
 character customization.  

  All told, Loki is one of those rare, totally derivative pleasures. A game that will inspire a lot 
 of dj vu but very little boredom.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (26 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 5:37 pm PT
Review:  There is not much to say about the story here since you can hardly find anything special about 
 the pseudo-medieval, fantasy world in Loki. Fortunately, neither does story play an important role 
 in a "hack and slash" RPG like this. What we really want to focus is combat and game play.
  
  The world in Loki is designed in dungeon structure, which contains many areas with their own 
 special monsters and bosses. The game intends to keep its players busy clicking mouse all the time 
 thanks to the vast number of enemies it offers. However, after a while you may possibly feel overloaded 
 and bored because of the lack of pinnacles or silent moments during that turbulent flow of combat. 
 Even the mouse click itself becomes annoying when the character is surrounded by enemies, for it's 
 really hard to specify which monster you are attacking.
  
  Character development is the only aspect Loki seemingly makes effort to innovate. In the role of 
 a god worshiper, 25% of your experience collected from battles will be transferred into an indicator 
 called "Faith". When having enough "Faith", you can study a new skill from your god. Ability collection 
 is big and diversified with each of the Gods offering to teach a distinct set of skills. To quicken 
 your "Faith" progress, you can sacrifice magic items to your god. Of course, the better the item, 
 the more "Faith" you earn.
  
  Items in game range from weapons, armors to sacred amulets and enchanting components falling into 
 7 ranks. It's an welcome feature that players can disassemble items to gain components then create 
 new stuff from those with several enchantments. However, a drawback is that some divine items, 
 which are supposed to be very precious, have only names and no pictures. That considerably reduces 
 players' interest in collecting them.
  
  As for graphics, though Loki comes later than Titan Quest or Neverwinter Nights 2, its graphics 
 seems even older than these games: backgrounds lacking details, lifeless character models and monotonous 
 boss designs. The only strong point is decent magic and light effects.
  
  Developers of this game certainly put no effort into innovating the genre, but instead merely followed 
 an old recipe. Nevertheless, with so many shortcomings, Loki turns out to be another flawed copy 
 of Diablo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxXMaGGoTXxX
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2009 8:47 am PT
Review:  Wasnt to sure on this game when i first saw it thought o its going to be another diablo or never 
 winter style game which since diablo 2 i aint played one thats really made me go omg like that 
 did but this when i started to play it i love how it was all layed out and stuff but then when 
 i read and looking into the forging and all the stuff you could do to ake weapons i had never seen 
 anything like it i thought it was great. Completed the story and started to go back through it. 
 becuase un like diablo where you just do the story again. you have to do dif things and they add 
 stuff in i think its amazing i would def make sure its in my collection. Hope that they bring out 
 another game in the series becuase it got all the makings to be like the diablo series if not better. 
 Buts its not for the faint harted becuase it can get really hard sometimes and you want to throw 
 your pc out the window. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Serpent
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 28, 2009 10:53 am PT
Review:  Loki was pretty interesting at the beginning, as a good diablo rip-off, but there are some problems 
 that cannot be forgiven. For once, why do i have to stop everytime i want to heal, if not using 
 health pots i mean? It gives the game a pretty rigid feeling. And the fact that no one tells you 
 what to do is annoying too, i mean, it took me 2 hours to figure out how to buy many potions not 
 just one. And how to sell stuff. And when you die, you just pop up at the entrance of the area, 
 like nothings wrong, you diddnt just die or something, a truly agonizing experience, no, probably 
 just got tired, frack knows. And then again, im sure im not the only one who got 3 Odin points 
 when i wanted to play Thor, because i found out a bit too late where to change your deity...
  Except for these little enconveniences, its pretty good, its fun to slash things, sound is well 
 implemented and the mythological background is wonderfully documented (at least norse) . So yeah, 
 its repetitive, but its fun to slash stuff diablo style. Still waiting for D3 though, Loki couldn't 
 fill the gap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mywi
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 5:56 am PT
Review:  If youre fine with a classic Diablo style RPG, then this is a game for you. If not, you will probably 
 hate how repetitive and frustrating it is. 
  Four different worlds and four characters - each is unique and interesting .. but thats only the 
 first impression which most likely fades away as you continue playing. Although it IS addictive (I 
 spent a few nights playing because I just couldnt let go, lol.) , the level designs are boring and 
 repetitive. Good thing is the weapon/armor customisation and lots of cool skills for each character. 
 For example my Aztec Heroine can metamorph into a dextrous Jaguar - that boost of speed sure helps 
 getting through the vast levels and evading the hords of enemies attacks.
  
  The bugs are annoying as hell: I destroyed all the bosses (btw I found those quite imbalanced) only 
 because they got stuck in a glitchy texture or something. :\
  To sum it up, I cant say its a bad game, I enjoyed it, but its not in any way impressive, innovative 
 or original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alexath
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  Very awesome, if you like mythologies, as i luv myths i luv this game, is full of creatures, demons 
 and so on, gnomes, deads, gargantuan creatures likes chaos golem or titan's seth, a great game 
 with a multiple choice of items to make your hero marvelous and mighty as the gods!
  The graphic is very nice, the refinement of the weapons and the clothing are very well made.
 
  The journey through the myths is very nice, you can choose your hero from egyptian, aztec, norse 
 or greek myhtology, naturally with your hero you 'll travel around all 4 myths, gaining weapons 
 of massive strenght and sceptres or staves of wonderful magic!
  The creatures sadly are the same for all the 3 cultures, so you can encounter nightmare from beyond 
 in egypt in the tombs but in Asgard too or aztec places..... sometimes the creatures that meet an 
 obstacle continues versus that.. so you can kill 'em easily but luckily this happens sometimes!
 
  You can choose 3 levels of difficulties, mortal hero and divine, with the divine level you can 
 access to divine garments and weapons, with the other 2 levels sadly isn't possible.... you can 
 gain only items to a common, ancestral, celestial and legendary level shared with colours in white, 
 light blue, dark blue and orange, but if you choose the hero or divine difficulty you can find 
 heroic, mythical and divine items along with green red and yellow colours, with monsters up to 
 level 200 and very gorgeous XP points!
  A very nice thing introduced in LOKI is the blacksmith with whom you can disassemble and assemble 
 your weapons and garments!
  About the weapons there is a huge wide range of choice, contact weapons includes: daggers, one/two 
 hand swords/axes/hammers, staves, sceptres, spears, gauntlets, regarding range weapons: short/long 
 bows, talisman, disks, and an aztec artifact!
  Armours is composed by headwear, bodywear, footwear and armwear all gain you bonuses and special 
 defenses or effects!
  Regarding the bosses you'll fight the gods, examples? Anubis or Fenrir and here i stop myself to 
 not reveal so much infos!
  Anyway if you want a game that faces the myths and the mythological creatures this is your game!
 
  Hope to see other games as this!
  
  
  See you in the threshold of times heroes!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cemkalyoncu
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 24, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Although it playing in a world of mythology sounds fun, this game has lots of problems that cannot 
 be ignored. I didn't played too long but all the quests was fetch this kill that style. Also its 
 too hard to control the view, viewing angle is limited and your character is too big. Leveling 
 doesn't scale you with monsters so the game gets harder with every level. There are few skills 
 available and these skills doesn't make alot difference in game. Skills that you can get from your 
 deity is limited and may not suit your playing style. Also skills level requirements are so high 
 that you nearly have to get all skills on the page.
  There few good things like customized weapons but they are shadowed by other problems. I can recommend 
 that you ignore this game, a least until an expansion or a large game fix is made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwilson32
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 11:59 pm PT
Review:  My first impressions was pretty good. The movie at the beginning was pretty decent. I thought, 
 'how bad can it be?' When I started playing, my opinion changed drastically.
  
  The games controls are pretty standard for an RPG, but they way they implement the camera angles 
 is just horrific. 
  
  I played the quests for a bit, got bored and decided to try out the multiplayer. That was the worst 
 multiplayer experience of my life. When you first get into the game center (or stumble into it, 
 as that is what it felt like) , you are to try and join a game. Well, to join a game you have to 
 create a characcter or you will get a "invalid game center parameters" error. So, I go to create 
 a character, I wait a bit like the nasty excuse for a website says, and then my character shows 
 up. 
  
  I then attempt to join a game with a friend. It hangs "connecting with server". Keep in mind that 
 my firewall and router are set up to allow this application and all the ports.
  
  I then cancel out, the friend could not start the game either, as he received an error (which is 
 why I hung) . So, he starts another game, and I attempt to join, only now my character is gone, 
 and I need to recreate it. So, I go to the website (the most ridiculously stupid interface in the 
 history of gaming) and I create another player. It never shows up. I then proceeded to uninstall 
 the crap game as it is not worthy of my PC.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phileosophos
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 4, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  If you're looking for an action RPG to tide you over until Diablo III arrives, the Titan Quest 
 series is probably a better bet. But Loki delivers enough interesting, albeit tiny, tweaks to the 
 mechanics and formula to stand on its own. The interface is a bit more difficult than it needs 
 to be, and the controls aren't as forgiving as other action RPGs, but it's still fun. 
  
  My main complaints is that the mechanics often force you to stop altogether to heal up. Rather 
 than keeping you in the action, it's like the game's wealth of baddies are intended to make you 
 attack, run away, stop, rest; attack, run away, stop, rest. That gets old. Granted, Diablo made 
 you pop potions and run in circles, but I'd rather do that.
  
  I wouldn't pay full price for it, but if you've already played Titan Quest, it's worth a try. The 
 copy protection is annoying but can be tolerated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoubleWeasel
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  Best thing about this game is that you can reallocate your experience points to play in a different 
 way. I hacked my way through Melee style on the first play-through (easy level) , then changed to 
 magic on the second play-through ) medium level) as my experience was higher.
  
  Hated the fact that it's so linear, the enemies are thick as, and at the end of the first play-through 
  you're told you've missed some stuff and basically have to do the entire game again (yawn) , with 
 a couple of extra areas (which look and feel the same anyway) , hence I gave up half way through 
 this. 
  
  If they made a sequel I'd want to see abilities to chain defences so you don't have to stop game-play 
 every minute and press countless buttons, and perhaps having to enlist some help to defeat tough 
 bosses would be a good idea. 
  
  I've still got the game saves, so if I'm stuck between games I might return to this, if someone 
 says there's a real payoff for playing it to the end - Otherwise I'll keep it on the shelf.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarwan_dude
Rating: 7
Date: May 14, 2008 3:25 am PT
Review:  Hack-n-slash games are few and far between so I always get excited when a new one comes out. I 
 know the old arguement that all MMORPG's are just hack-n-slash games, but there is a major difference, 
 this one involves my wallet and its lack of funds. Loki: Heroes of Mythology is loosely based off 
 well, mythology. The story starts off with Seth, Egyption god of chaos, is has been awakened by 
 unseen hands and is terrorizing the land. Control
  is pretty simple and straight forward, nothing new for this type of game. Melee is done by simple 
 left clicking, constantly, while your sword icon is over an enemy. By right clicking, you will 
 perform a special move or spell that is saved in your hot bar. Before you set off into the world, 
 you are given a quest to complete. Each world seemed to have a total of 10 or so
  quests that can be completed along with the main mission. As you explore that lands, you will come 
 across all sorts of things that will stand in your way. As you mow through them, you gain experience 
 points. You do have the option, inside of town, to disperse some of your EXP towards your god so 
 they may favor you with points that can be added to your skill tree. You can swap which god you 
 want to favor you, or just stick with one. When enough experience is reached, your character will 
 level up and be given 5 attribute points that can be added to Strength, Vitality, Intelligence, 
 or Dexterity. Each server their own purpose depending on the hero you choose. Items and money are 
 plentiful through the call. As you slay your enemies, there is a chance that something is going 
 to drop off of their body. As in previous hack-n-slash titles, items are based of rarity and are 
 color coded to help you determine how useful the items is. When you first play, the only color 
 items you will see are white, light blue, dark blue, and orange. As you open up higher difficulties, 
 even rarer items become available for your character to use. Don't get to excited when you see 
 that orange drop. It may be above your level or an attribute may need to be raised before it can 
 be equipped. Multiplayer allows up 6 players join together and battle Seth's forces in challenge 
 mode, or go one-on-one and team battles. Co-op mode is exactly what it sounds like. Play through 
 the story with 5 other friends.
  If hack-n-slash is your cup of joy, then don't look past Loki: Heroes of Mythology. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 11:22 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay/Interface: 6/10
  - Gameplay is a very typical hack-and-slash medieval action game. This game is honestly an poor 
 copy of Diablo with just better graphics. Gameplay is extremely repetitive and unusually difficult 
 even on the easiest setting. I can honestly say I've never died so many times in the first hour 
 of playing, it was quite ridiculous. Combat is somewhat amusing and quests are mediocre. Controls 
 are quite simple but camera angle seems kinda sticky and doesn't have the freedom as most games 
 do. Disappointed in the hotkey availablitity for skills. One big thing I noticed that even ESRP 
 didn't, the slideshow during installation shows two different slides with full frontal nudity of 
 a woman. This was really disapointing being games that have this kind of content, no matter where 
 its located, should have a mentioning or a higher audience rating.
  
  Environment & Immersion: 7/10
  - The game certainly contains a large bestiary and item selection. 
 Maps are well made but some spots have a mound of creatures stacked just waiting to make things 
 all the more difficult. Never really did get addicted or immersed into the game.
  
  Graphics/Physics: 8/10
  - Graphics are pretty outstanding for a third-person style game, gore 
 is also quite a big plus. The blood and gore certainly make the combat pretty amusing. Lighting 
 and weather graphics are better than most that I've seen in any third-person game.
  
  Sound: 6.5/10
  - Sound was good, voices were good at times but rather hokey or lame at other 
 times. Not much to really say other than I would have liked to seen better quality sound than this. 
 
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 7.5/10
  - Game would lag or tank at various times for no reason, loading bar occassionally would glitch.
 
  
  Replay value: 6/10
  - Sure, this game is plenty replayable but content doesn't really much make it worth it.
  
 
  Value/Originality: 2/10
  - This game has some serious issues. 1#: Terrible remake of the classic Diablo series. 2#: Installation 
 shows full frontal nudity during slide show. 3#: Gameplay seems to just repeat itself.
  
  Will this game be remembered by old school gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - Possibly hated 
 by the Diablo fans, but never remebered as a classic.
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - I wouldn't recommend this, in all I would recommend 
 anyone who DID like this game, to instead play Diablo.
  
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 7 - Poor remake of the game Diablo. 
 Warning: Installation shows full frontal nudity in slideshow. Extemely repetitive game play and 
 truely a turn off because of its un-originality. Don't bother playing this one unless you have 
 never played Diablo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthbanker
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  I am a HUGE fan of this hack n' slash genre, I have played all the titles out there. I would rank 
 this game on par with Dungeon Lords that shipped a few years back. 
  
  Game is buggy, and not stable. Had 3 patches within first month of going retail, which would indicate 
 the studio knew it was not ready for release to consumers. Video in game is hitchy, and lacks polish 
 seen in other titles in the hack n' slash genre. Uses intrusive DRM: Starforce, which I wouldn't 
 mind if this was actually a decent game. This is all extremely frustrating when you start to realize 
 the lengths the publisher took, to protect this game from pirates, when they would of had a hard 
 enough time selling it to begin with.
  
  I took away two thoughts about this game:
  
  #1 Cyanide Studios has no money to attract talent to make quality games
  
  #2 Dreamcatcher 
 publishes games that are not ready for retail, and then lock them up tight with intrusive DRM, 
 which is anti-consumer.
  
  *This is the first and last Cyanide Studio title I purchase 
::::::

::::::
UserName: migsbro
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 2, 2007 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Too boring for me... it starts out good like most games XD but I found I was just grinding stuff 
 when I wanted to get to the end of the quest and it seems to take FOREVER to get anywhere
  
  so yeah fun for about an hour but after that pretty lame, It would prolly be good if u havent 
 played any Blizzard games, maybe for 12yo's lol
  
  Its a shame the game seems really hollow U_U its a good stolen idea for sure, I compare it to titan 
 quest similar stuff but nothing new.
  
  NOTHING NEW IS WHAT I SHOULD HAVE SAID XD.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XLAXXLV
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2007 3:26 am PT
Review:  Having played many many many Diablo clones, Loki by far is one of the best available. If you can 
 afford the game, get it, just go out and buy it. This has to be one of the most enjoyable hack 
 n slash type games I have played in some time, other than a bit buggy... this game is amazing
  
  THE GOOD
  
  1. The graphics are NOT dated, if you have the machine that can handle it, 
 Loki shines. From the lighting to the spell effects, landscape animations, and mob animations, 
 it looks real nice. Graphics do not make a great game anyways....
  
  2. The sound is emersive and atmospheric, and the number 1 notable thing for me about the sound 
 is the fact that NPC's TALK, yes you can hear them speak and not just read endless text with no 
 voice to give it life.
  
  3. The creature variety is good and seeded with original mob types, that's a good thing folks
 
  
  4. Skill system is straight forward and is useful to use, not just a bunch of non essential skills 
 that take up skill points. Additionally, you can turn in rare loot for skill exp to earn additional 
 skill points... That's a nice touch.
  
  5. Armor/Weapon upgrading is done nicely, you can tear down weapons and use different parts to 
 create a better weapon.
  
  6. Traveling is not a pain in the a$$, for me in a hack n slash, I don't want to have to travel 
 forever to get around, leave the long travel for other RPG's, this is just click and go. Wouldn't 
 you rather spend time hacking and slashing anyways?
  
  7. Ability to separate junk from items you may want to keep on the fly is a great thing, it's called 
 a Kiosk and its a tab in your inventory, just open inv and right click all the crap you want to 
 sell at the vendor and it goes into the Kiosk tab and out of your main inventory. Then when you 
 arrive at the vendor to sell, just hit the sell tab in the vendor and then the Kiosk tab and click 
 sell all... BOOM done, all sold, no individual clicking to sell... nice job, thanks for not wasting 
 my time.
  
  THE BAD
  
  1. DO NOT INSTALL THE PATCHES, it just makes your game CTD and you have to deal with Starforce. 
 I am running without any patches and doing fine.
  
  2. The game lags a bit, so if you have a slower machine, turn everything down low.
  
  3. It's 
 like other diablo clones, you've been here done this.... but it's done well 
  
  4. TOO much money in the game, you'll be rich before you know it, I recommend giving ALL rare items 
 you can't use to the gods for skill point exp.
  
  5. Game is real easy, you can buy a ton of healing pots and wade through the mobs with ease, maybe 
 they need a longer cool down timer on heal pots.
  
  Honestly though, there isn't a whole lot that's bad about the game, just minor things here and 
 there.
  
  Bottom line, if your looking for a fun Diablo / TQ clone, Loki fits the bill and is quite a bit 
 of fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: asestar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Loki manages to provide a treat for those who enjoy a good old-fashioned hack and slash. Its a 
 shameless diablo 2 clone, just like Sacred, Titan Quest and many other wannabes. Except this is 
 a real gem in rough. Only it feature much better visuals, a truly superb soundtrack, very gripping 
 play mechanics (with four very different character classes) and a very long and interesting campaign. 
 On the downside, the initial release was bugged beyond belief. Frequent loading crashes, poor item 
 loading, broken quests and bad performance. Another main 'problem' is the game's suicide bomber 
 play mechanics. Unlike all other games, gameplay is designed to make it impossible to avoid death. 
 Instead its all about how few times you can die to clear out a given area... there is no death 
 penalty either, so this keeps things interesting. So to sum it all up, this is a 'truly unique 
 clone' of a classic. Hack-n-slash at its best. Just make sure you have some patience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swoosie
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 28, 2007 8:21 pm PT
Review:  I came into this game with high hopes -- after enjoying Titan Quest, but being thoroughly tired 
 of that formula, I came into Loki excited at a fresh look at the clickfest action-RPG. Unfortunately, 
 what we get is another Titan Quest without the balance, spit-and-polish, or attention to detail. 
 The graphics are decidedly OK, not great. The sounds are repetitive and minimal. The variance of 
 enemies and scenery are mediocre. The camera is terrible -- often scenery will get in the way of 
 a battle, obscuring enemies, and causing path-finding issues with your character, which will dance 
 instead of fight.
  
  Overall... I'd give this a miss and go back to Titan Quest! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoatheMe
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 27, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  stay away from Loki. I actually liked this game. I thought it was pretty fun once I got into it. 
 Kind of dated, but a fun little diabloish romp. I got about 3/4 of the way through the game. not 
 sure how many hours I put in but I've been playing most of this week. the point being... I entered 
 a new area and suddenly found that my character was magically reset to level 1. all skills gone. 
 inventory empty. quest log erased. nothing to be done because the game autosaves every time you 
 enter a new area. so out of nowhere after playing for a week with no problems I am completely screwed 
 over. thank you Loki for being the biggest waste of gaming time ever. don't waste your money on 
 this crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ntwillea
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  The game itself has nice graphics, good music and a very easy to use interface. I've found that 
 I can pretty much run through all the enemies to get where I need to go; which the map tells you 
 once you select a quest, the map also tells you where all the enemies are located. You never run 
 out of money and you will have to buy very little equipment from the stores. A nice feature is 
 the ability to re-forge, layer and add runes to equipment.
  
  The update installs SECUROM and you can't remove it from the registry. I've been playing for over 
 a month now and so far this is my only beef besides the fact that there's elevated areas you can't 
 get to that have chests and creatures. The euro version had the SECUROM problem, the english version 
 update didn't even mention that it was going to be installed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssta
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 16, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  The game is not something special. It was boring to me even after my third quest. It was really 
 easy.
  I didn't like the maps, they are sooooo small. Something like The Bard's Tale , but bard's tale 
 was a way way better.
  I was bored after the third quest, as I said, and I uninstalled the game.
  The graphics was not 
 at today's capabilities. On my PC (check my blog for info) it was sliding, and I had great graphics 
 on High .
  For the gameplay I can say that it was a copy from Diablo. In mixature with Titan Quest. But seperating 
 skill points from feveling was not so good. I played as a Norse (barbarian) , and I skilled one level 
 with Thor (two-handed weapon) . I changed into one-handed, and as I expected to skill-level up with 
 the second god (which granted bonuses for one handed weapons) , and the skill pt. gone with the first 
 leveling.
  The second thing is that the price is not well balanced. In the begining, if you need potions, 
 you just do not have money to buy more than 2. After that, you just do not need potions. Kill everything, 
 and then after the waiting of 5 sec you regenerate yourself.
  
  I bought it, and I do not want the money back, I'll just keep the game ins my collection. If you 
 like this game, just get Dungeon Siege II, or Diablo (I or II) , you'll LOVE these games.
  
  Sorry to dissapoint you, but with been here, done that more than 4 pts? I don't think so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkdesires
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Why that everytime a game like loki comes out its automaticaly tagged like diablo clone ? I know 
 diablo its an outstanding game, a classic and a giant of all time. But we can't compare everything 
 to it, Loki its the same genre as diablo but it has completely diferent gameplay mechanics even 
 as its based on diablo. Loki its a solid RPG with 4 chars to choose from, a good ambient (the nordic 
 campaign its really cool, and fenrir its one of the coolest boss fights i had, this is also cause 
 I love nordic mythology of course) , the graphics in the game are pretty good, but unfortunetly 
 there are some bad texture here and there and also some great textures. The gameplay its the worst 
 thing in loki, running around the scenario can sometimes be problematic, the char always run against 
 the wall until you make im run somewhre else, and sometimes monsters apear off limits...
  despite this kind of things loki its a nice looking game with a cool single player campaign and 
 a nice variety of completly diferent chars. worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: copojax
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 14, 2007 12:34 am PT
Review:  Not really a good purchase.... and I was a fan of Diablo!
  
  Really very difficult right from the start, in my opinion only the soundtrak is convincing, the 
 graphics is out-dated and the game mechanics ......
  well, the games collision detection is pretty poor, with NPC and AI sometimes glitching into the 
 walls or buildings, which can make some quests very difficult to complete, a few instances arose 
 where the NPC I was supposed to find to complete my quest was actually stuck inside a wall, which 
 made trying to find him a long and painful task until I noticed where he was hiding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tupaschoal
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 7:52 pm PT
Review:  At first, when you enter the game and see that it's like many other games, that means, that it 
 is a Diablo derivation and then it's similar to Mu online and many other games, you don't have 
 will to play. But when you try to create and play just a little bit, the game becomes interesting, 
 or not, seeing the same monsters for some time may become boring, but fighting giant bosses like 
 ancient mummies, or enjoying an Egyptian sorcerer or a Aztec shaman may be fun, since those combinations 
 were never seen before. For the gamer that like RPG and can spent a lot of hours cleaning dungeons 
 Loki is a recommended game, but for gamers that want faster or interactive games it may not be 
 the right choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nogames56
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  graphics set back about 5 years ago...... only thing good is the sound. instantly i felt i didn't 
 want to play once i saw the graphic layout. I am heartbroken, i was really counting on this game 
 to be my next time consumer.  game would be great for the 
 traditional gamers wanting that old feel of classic, but for me I can't consume m y time into something 
 where movement and visuals are cheapened. repeat graphics set back about 5 years ago...... only 
 thing good is the sound. instantly i felt i didn't want to play once i saw the graphic layout. 
 I am heartbroken, i was really counting on this game to be my next time consumer.  
 game would be great for the traditional gamers wanting that old feel of classic, but for me I can't 
 consume m y time into something where movement and visuals are cheapened. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gragnak
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  My brother bought this game.
  I told him not to buy it but he's a hard fan of action crpgs.
  So I was convinced to try the 
 game on his computer.
  Well.....
  This is an ugly piece of software.
  Controls are really nasty.
  Graphics are well..... nothing exceptional.
  Sound is repetitive. 
 ... the game is repetitive...... Environments are empty and cold . No. Not because of the Viking 
 location, but because of the lifelesse places you'll roam.
  Inventory system is terrible!!!!!
  Also item manipulation's nothing good.
  Shopkeepers has 
 never something interesting and you can obtain some good item only from killed monsters.
  The quests and story are really poor.
  The game has nothing to offer for your fun. Well... my 
 brother just keeps playing only because he doesn't want to admit he has spent his money for a crappy 
 game.... but this is another story... :-)
  
  If you want to join my brother's useless crusade.... you are welcome, but I warned you. Wait for 
 something better (HellGate London, The Witcher) or just try something less expensive (i. e: The 
 Chosen Well of Souls.... judging by the demo, not a good game but better than Loki) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sridanu
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 2, 2007 4:13 am PT
Review:  Lets face it. Diablo was probably the only game that provided immense joy in the genre of Hack 
 n Slash games. Many games that followed in that genre failed in one area or the other to bring 
 a absolutely smashing gaming experience to the gamer.
  
  Loki unfortunately is another failed attempt to bring to life what has been fledging Hack n Slash 
 gaming presence. Loki is not a bad game but it is not a great game either. The graphics arnt bad 
 and so is the game play but it lacks a great story line and game play at times can get repetitive 
 such that it will easily bore you. Bu the game does have some cool new features as well. For example 
 the character classes all have different campaigns. And it gives you the option of reloading dead 
 enimies if you are low in XP.
  
  But In the end the game gives you the impression that it was not given adequate development time 
 for it to become a really good game.
  
  Loki is the kind of game that you play if you don't have any thing else to play at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaliburJamie
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Loki seemed like a very good game to me in the build up to the eventual release by Cyanide. I was 
 seeing it as possibly one of the best Hack N Slash games since the legendary Diablo series. Sadly, 
 as it turned out I was left very dissapointed.
  
  After buying the game and installing it, I initally had an error starting the game on my PC with 
 no error messages or indication of what the problem was coupled with a lack of technical support. 
 A visit to the games offical forums didn't help iether, but did unearth many other issues. (Which 
 i'll come back to later.) So, after this hiccup I decided to try the game on a labtop instead with 
 it thankfully installing and starting properly this time. The game plays quite well, to my suprise. 
 Nothing spectacular, but really enjoyable and I was just getting into the game... and it random 
 crashes to the desktop. I start it up again, happens at the same point. At this point I go onto 
 the aforementioned games offical forums to get the 1.0.5.0 patch (After reading warnings that the 
 1.0.6.0 patch made it worse) and installed that. No problems at the same point, but more began 
 to surface. Random freezes, getting stuck for no reason and the occassional bout of enemies just 
 falling to the ground.
  
  The game is fun to play and quite expansive in terms of skills and items, but as far as a Hack 
 'n' Slash goes, it seemed to falter in the innovation department. I couldn't set it apart from 
 any other game I played, apart from the fact at times it was a joke. Enemies were just too easy 
 to kill at one point, then I have a boss who's hard as nails to adapt too.
  
  I gave the game a few days play-through until the end of the first chapter of it, as at that point 
 the portal to the next stage of the game decided not to work. After reading that the whole Loki 
 project had been abandoned so Cyanide can focus on an 'Upcoming MMORPG' aswell, this was the point 
 I gave up and hoped for a refund, as I felt tricked- rather ironic of the God the game is named 
 after. On the whole, Loki is a solid, decent game to play... provided you have the paitence of the 
 gods to deal with the various bugs it issues at you- more challenging than any monster in the game. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
