-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Lords of Magic: Special Edition
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/lordsofmagicspecialedition/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 28, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.4, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 207 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Impressions Games
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Sep 30, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Special Edition corrects a number of flaws and adds several new features but somehow ends up 
 being only a tiny bit more appealing than its predecessor. 

 When we first looked at Impressions' Lords of Magic, we were less than impressed. The game had tons 
 of potential but was marred by numerous flaws, both in the overall design and several specific 
 gameplay elements (you can see our original review here) . Lords of Magic Special Edition promises 
 to address the original game's shortcomings - and lo and behold it actually does. The only problem 
 is that the game is still flawed in many ways and is not all that much more compelling than the 
 original.  

 Without rehashing all of the basic information on story and game flow, we'll stick to addressing 
 the changes in the Special Edition and how they affect the overall gameplay experience. One of 
 the more notable new features is the included Legends of Urak Quest Pack. This expansion set of 
 five scripted campaigns challenges you to complete a series of specific quests, sort of like the 
 scenarios in Civilization II. For example, in one quest you play a Death Mage and must find and 
 recover a sacred scepter for your lord, the King of Darkness. Another quest is based on Arthurian 
 legends.  

 Another new feature is the lord editor, which basically allows you to modify your character at the 
 beginning of each game. Instead of accepting the game's default settings for starting heroes, you 
 can modify your starting army choosing units from any of the eight faiths. You can also select 
 the spells and artifacts you posses, and the game includes several items in each of those categories. 
 You can even decide to start the game already in possession of your great temple. Using the new 
 map editor, you can also customize the world in which you play.  

 The Special Edition features a number of new creatures, including one legendary creature for each 
 faith. There are also many new wandering creatures as well as a general increase in "marauding 
 parties" - easily the game's most annoying and infuriating feature. Marauding parties seem to be 
 the rough equivalent to Civilization's barbarian tribes, except that they appear at alarming rates 
 and mete out rather severe beatings in the face of seemingly superior opposition. Many a time I 
 found myself cursing the puny marauding parties of wolves and centaurs who would take out half 
 of my precious units and set me back by several days (that's game time, not real time) . In moderation 
 these groups would add much to the depth and challenge of the game. As things stand now, however, 
 most of your combat seems to take place against these roving ruffians - and not against Balkoth, 
 your most lethal enemy.  

 One point in the Special Edition's favor is the fact that, although you spend far too much time 
 battling marauding parties, you will probably spend far less time quarreling with your neighbors 
 - even Balkoth. This is due to the game's enhanced diplomacy model, which offers more options and 
 seems to have fewer loopholes. No longer will Balkoth fork over a level 5 hero when you plead for 
 him (offering nothing in return) . You can still acquire another faith's hero, but you have to put 
 up some serious barter to do so. Also, whenever you put an offering on the bargaining table, the 
 game will tell you whether or not it's a fair deal before you accept or decline it. This can be 
 useful for avoiding ill feelings over unintentionally one-sided trade demands.  

 As a result of the improved diplomacy model (and presumably of improved AI) , the game plays out 
 a bit more like the story would dictate. Individual faiths are not necessarily at each other's 
 throats and, if you play your cards right, you can actually win the game more easily by befriending 
 your neighbors (except that Balkoth character; nobody likes him) . I should point out, though, that 
 the Fire faith begins the game in a very deep hole. No other faith has a positive opinion of Fire 
 (except Chaos, which is typically the weakest of the AI-controlled faiths) , and most are downright 
 hostile right from the start.  

 In terms of problems that have been fixed, load times in the Special Edition are generally speedier 
 (a very good thing) , and Impressions has added an option to auto-compute battle results before 
 loading the real-time combat engine. There's a trade-off to this, however, as now the auto-compute 
 results are a bit less favorable to your side than they were in the original game.  

 You can now interact with any of your buildings without actually marching a hero to it - a very 
 big improvement. This both saves time and allows you to manage your campaign without running back 
 and forth to the capital city all of the time.  

 Though the Special Edition features several improvements, there remain a number of unresolved issues. 
 For starters, it still takes far too long for your troops to recover from battle wounds, especially 
 when they are low-level units. This means that for every minor skirmish you fight, you often have 
 to rest for three or four days just to get your grunts back into fighting trim. While you rest, 
 your AI opponents are building bigger fortunes and bigger, more-powerful armies.  

 Of course, the computer faiths may just have an advantage because they all seem to begin the game 
 with armies that are at least twice as powerful as yours. They also seem to begin with more gold, 
 more crystals, and more ale - all for no apparent reason.  

 Catching up to the AI requires that you take over your fair share of mines and breweries, but that 
 is a nearly impossible task in the early going. In general, there seem to be fewer first- and second-level 
 caves near your starting city, regardless of your faith. This means that you have to attack higher-level 
 monsters earlier than you should. As a result, it is very difficult to keep your troops alive, 
 let alone develop them into seasoned veterans.  

 And even unit advancement seems to have been slowed considerably. Troops often go through numerous 
 battles - against higher-level foes - without gaining enough experience to move up a level. The 
 final result of all these minor issues is that the game is far more difficult now, even on the 
 easiest difficulty setting.  

 Real-time combat certainly doesn't help matters much. In fact, apart from adding multilevel dungeons 
 and buildings for the combat mode, this aspect of the game doesn't seem to have changed much. It 
 is still difficult to see all of your units clearly when they fight the enemy at close quarters. 
 More to the point, it's extremely difficult to target the enemy units in these situations. This 
 wouldn't be a huge problem except for the fact that your units often stand there doing nothing 
 after they kill off their initial targets - whether or not there happen to be enemy units nearby. 
 Troops still get hung up on the scenery, so real-time battles are still the same old micromanagement 
 madness that they have always been.  

 Then there's the minor issue of defeating one of the other lords in battle. You might think that 
 by defeating another faith's leader - and thereby eliminating them from the game (at least as far 
 as Balkoth's goals of conquest are concerned) - you would have made your life a bit easier. But 
 no. As soon as you fell your colleague, vast armies of his faith will pour into your lands, hurling 
 themselves against your forces until they eventually overwhelm and destroy you. I wouldn't find 
 this "feature" so odious if not for the fact that the same courtesy is unavailable to you (when 
 your character dies, the game is over) .   

 The Special Edition corrects a number of flaws and adds several new features but somehow ends up 
 being only a tiny bit more appealing than its predecessor. For those players who enjoyed the original 
 game, the many enhancements in the Special Edition probably make it a must-have. But for the rest 
 of us, Heroes of Might &amp; Magic II (and soon III) and Warlords III are simply better options 
 for a fantasy-strategy fix.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: FrancisShin
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Its true that this game can seem very hard at the beginning, but play it, learn to love it, and 
 you ll have fun for countless hours with it. Each time I play this game it really catches me. The 
 atmosphere, the music, the replies when you click on the buildings or when you fight, its all really 
 unique and Ive never seen that in any other games yet.
  
  I bought this game back then when it came out, and I still play it from times to times today ( 
 2007) .
  Its really calm and relaxing, while very fun and challenging.
  I cant recall how many times I beat the game, I even think I beat it with every single faiths and 
 every single classes, still every games I play are different.
  Today for the first time I was able to clear a lvl 11 dungeon ( the hardest ones in the game) with 
 my Life Warrior hero ALONE :D, he was lvl 12 with probably the best artefact setup possible, but 
 still the amount of skills I had to use made it an awesome fight. IE using the spells from the 
 ennemy mages in your advantage, defend self when needed, run away to corner them in small groups 
 etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 31, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Lords of Magic had quite a bit of hype surrounding it, it promised to be a combination of Lords 
 of the Realm 2 and Heroes of Might and Magic 3. It ultimately failed to meet this hype, but that 
 doesn't mean its an entirely lost cause.
  
  The basic story that will push you along the game is that the evil undead lord Balkoth has been 
 summoned by Golgoth, the god of death. Now its up to you to rally your faith, reunite the land 
 in peace, and defeat the forces of Death. OK, yes, we've seen all of this before. But its enough 
 to get things rolling through out the entire game. In the game, you play as a wana-be lord from 
 one of 7 races (There are actually 8 races in the game, the 8th being the death race, but you must 
 beat Balkoth in single player at least once to unlock them) . The faiths are essentially divided 
 by religion, so you can worship life, earth, chaos, water, etc. While the races all have seemingly 
 unique units, they really all work roughly the same. The tactics you use for each race really don't 
 vary terribly much. Their units are differentiated enough however to make it easy for people to 
 pick favorites.
  
  You always start somewhere in the outskirts around your faith's capital, which can't do much for 
 you at the start of the game. So you'll have your lord and a small force with which to explore 
 the country side for adventure and plunder. Eventually though, if you want to become a legit lord, 
 you'll need to find and take your faith's great temple. Once you do this, the game completely shifts 
 gears, and you begin the game in ernest. You'll have to manage training new armies, resource gathering 
 at the capital, and expand your realm by subjugating the other faiths or taking outskirt villages 
 to build new training structures as you fight against Balkoth and either fight against or ally 
 with the other faiths.
  
  While the first stage of exploration is consistently fun, things can drag out a lot after you take 
 your Great Temple. Since you'll have a lot to manage each turn, each turn can drag out extremely 
 quickly. You'll also be forced to do boring battles against marauding parties, which can cause 
 more trouble than you'd think. So ultimately, the game loses a lot of polish here, but its still 
 great for those who are in for the very long haul. So if you can play entire games of something 
 like say Lords of the Realm 2, then you can easily do the same for Lords of Magic, though you won't 
 enjoy it nearly as much.
  
  The game's combat at least helps break up the drag when it occurs in earnest. While many of the 
 combats later in the game can turn out to be pointless armies versus one uber-powerful dude engagements 
 later in the game due to a bone-headed AI, the legit combats are interesting and can be quite challenging 
 when the forces are evenly matched. There are some issues here as well however, such as some lackluster 
 pathfinding. There are some well made battlefields here, but there's not enough variety to them 
 to keep things interesting.
  
  Graphically, Lords of Magic is a little basic, but it has its charm. The units look good and animate 
 well, but they're generic. The environments look very nice however. Sound wise, there's some repetitive 
 voice acting that varies in quality, and some decent battle sounds. It should be noted that Lords 
 of Magic tends to be buggy the longer you play it, and may even crash to the desktop if you play 
 for too long.
  
  Lords of Magic has many flaws and may fall completely flat for some, so your mileage will vary 
 with this game. But if your looking for a decent strategy game, then you've actually got one here.
 
  
  Pros: Decent combat and graphics. Mimics Heroes of M&amp; M gameplay effectively. Faiths are varied 
 enough so you'll easily pick a favorite or two, or three...
  
  Cons: Game is buggy the longer you play. Late game can be very tedious and drag out. Bone-headed 
 AI.
  
  Recommendable for: Strategy fans should be able to enjoy Lords of Magic. But if you prefer faster 
 paced-games, or already have Heroes of M&amp; M and/or Lords of the Realm 2, then you should probably 
 pass on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warnexus100
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Hype of the Game
  
  I bought the LOM SE 4-5 years ago. I look at the info in the front and back of the cd case. being 
 a novice gamer back then, it gave me an urge to spend a couple of bucks on the game. Game Info
 
  
  first of all, the game was tough for me when i first played it but very appealing nevertheless. 
 for those who have the game, never use AUTOCALC for your battles unless you're 110% sure not even 
 one guy dies cause it will cost you the resources and turns. Lord of Fire is the strongest faith 
 lord. i have played this game numerous times.
  
  Cheats
  
  Mass Lv 15 dragons=Ownage. :) ) ) Hold and press CTRL + C and type zilla. you will get dragon and 
 it will cost you 8 crystals per turn. If you want resources, press and hold CTRL + C and type bingo.
 
  
  Currently my fire lord is lv 10. lvling him up now requires more kills and i have been playing 
 it for 3-4hrs so far. So yeah play it without autocalac and save your game often.
  
  Rating: 8.0
  Graphics: Great graphics for a 7 year old game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samboh6288
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  i first got this game in the spring of 2001, and i spent my entire summer break playing/ trying 
 to beat this game... i loved and was instantly addicted. the game can be hard at first, just avoid 
 blakoth until ur maxed out. temple creatures add much needed fun to the game and can make your 
 Lord seemingly invincible. Once all your champions and units are maxed out (which isnt hard to do 
 once u get the hang of it) , even the lvl 11 dungeons are easy.... make sure you take advantage 
 of the mages, especcially chaos mages, because mages can turn the tide of battles. overall this 
 game is amazing. at first it took me about a month to beat it, but now after about 5 years of playing 
 i can beat in in about 2 hours.... its a must have for any conoseur of old school strategy/ rpg's. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akazergling2
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 1, 2006 12:19 am PT
Review:  Only thing it's really missing is an online system. While this game is a decade old, I still find 
 myself going to play it. Lords of Magic: SE is one of the most balanced games I've played and is 
 defiantly worth a try if you like strategy games, fantasy, and great music. I would recommend trying 
 the custom option for your lords after learning the basics.
  
  The legends of urak feature is pretty fun to play around with and the new legendary creatures are 
 really fun to test out... although fire's legendary creature, the dragon Fafnir, can take out balkoth 
 alone. Also each great temple now allows access to a special building, each providing a useful 
 benefit, be it easy transportation to other great temples (earth) , free experience (order) , or even 
 health regeneration (life) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gmex
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 16, 2006 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Choose a warrior, mage, or a thief. None of which seem all that different, all of the mage's spells 
 and attacks look and act the same the same goes for warrior and thief. None of them have different 
 twists or turns and with all that effort put into the different types of characters it wouldn't 
 please anyone that there is almost no difference. 
  
  The fighting system is horrible.
  
  Step A: Select your party.
  
  Step B: Select the enemy.
  
  Sigh no creativity has gone 
 into this game at all. Although it uses a never before seen system that combines real-time strategy 
 and RPG, the system is horrible that I pray to never see again.
  
  The graphics are good but it's hard to see anything.
  
  The sound is simple but the cutscenes 
 sound is excellent.
  
  Overall this game may be good if you're looking for old-school rpg games and it's defintaley good 
 to pick up to see the combination of real-time strategy and RPG. But this game doesn't present 
 anything new and it just seems like they only put effort into the cutscenes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juner553
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 1, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  this game could have been a lot better then the prequel, but it wasnt. i think that whoever thought 
 that this game deserevs a 10 should crawl in a hole and die. i have serious doubts that this game 
 could have a sequel that is great but you never know what sierra will do. lom is probably not the 
 very best game for computer but i would probably reccomend it to people that might like age of 
 emipres. i think that anyone who reads this review should probably stop friends from buying this 
 game becuase friends stop friends from buying bad games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tallman12
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 11, 2005 7:34 am PT
Review:  I love the Heros of Might and Magic games that this game was based on, but this game was a huge 
 disappointment. The gameplay feels extremely "Haven't I done this before?!?!". Also the screen 
 layout was very confusing. The story quests where fun for a while, they weren't something I felt 
 like spending much time on. While it was cool to see all the different units of the factions, but 
 they did all have the same sort of feel to them. This could have been a fun game for fans of the 
 genre, but i felt that the aforementioned things brought down it's value. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
