-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Lords of Magic
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/lordsofmagic/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 30, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.3
Critic Score: 7.7, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 192 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Impressions Games
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Nov 30, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It promised to combine the captivating gameplay of Heroes of Might & Magic II with the style of 
 Lord of the Realm II and an eye-popping graphics engine. Unfortunately, LOM falls far short of 
 its potential. 

 On the surface, Lords of Magic seems like the perfect strategy game. This eagerly anticipated fantasy 
 title promised to combine the captivating gameplay of Heroes of Might &amp; Magic II with the style 
 of Lord of the Realm II and an eye-popping graphics engine. Unfortunately, LOM falls far short 
 of its potential. What's more, the game is unstable and suffers from a number of design flaws. 

 As LOM opens, an elaborate cinematic tells the story of Balkoth, Arch-Demon of Death, and his efforts 
 to conquer the great nations of Urak. As lord of one of these nations, your goal is to defeat Balkoth, 
 either alone or through an alliance of nations. The game provides numerous gameplay options, as 
 you may choose to lead any of the eight nations (or faiths) as a warrior, a mage, or a thief. Each 
 faith has its own unique units, though these are pretty much balanced out among the faiths.  

 
 The main component of the game is a resource management and exploration phase in which you wander 
 the countryside in search of mines, special locations (towers, villages, keeps, and so on) , and 
 enemies. During this turn-based phase, you must also develop your capital city and build up your 
 armies. One of your first goals is to find and liberate the Great Temple of your faith, which will 
 inspire your people to build a stronghold for you.  

 As in HOMM II, each of your armies is led by a champion, though in this case you can actually have 
 three champions per army. The rest of your military might comprises foot soldiers, cavalry, missile 
 troops, and recon units that you recruit from the various buildings of your city. For some reason, 
 these buildings (barracks, mage's tower, and thieves' guild) are outside of your city, so you must 
 physically move from city to building in order to recruit anyone. Also, you cannot do anything 
 in a city or building without actually being there. Logically, of course, this makes sense, but 
 it is a lot more annoying than HOMM II's "manage from anywhere" system. Besides, one would think 
 that in a city, someone would be available to do mundane managerial work should the need arise. 

 When you are able to recruit new troops, you can give them an experience boost by stationing a champion 
 in the appropriate building (a veteran warrior in the barracks, for example) . This can help improve 
 your new recruits but at the cost of keeping a valuable unit away from the battlefield. The only 
 other way to improve your troops is to use them in combat. This has its drawbacks as well, since 
 it takes a ridiculously long time for your units to recover from battle wounds.  

 LOM's real-time combat phase takes place from an overhead isometric viewpoint that resembles a mix 
 between Diablo and the Realms of Arkania series. You can either direct your troops manually or 
 use "The Button" to let LOM auto-calculate the results for you. Either way, you're forced to wait 
 while the game first loads up the combat engine, then reloads the main game screen after each battle. 
 Since the auto-calculate feature often achieved far better results than I did, I found myself wishing 
 for the option to choose auto-calculate before all of the loading and reloading took place.  

 
 One of the reasons manual combat control can be tricky in LOM is that your troops suffer from serious 
 AI deficiencies. Often, my inept soldiers became stuck on a terrain feature and got mowed down 
 by inferior enemies. Also, my troops were rarely able to pick out new targets after taking out 
 their initial foe. This was especially true of mages, and it turned each battle into a morass of 
 micromanagement. You have a number of command options during combat, but most battles end up as 
 a confusing jumble of sprites in the middle of the screen, which can make it difficult to select 
 targets with any precision.  

 Some of LOM's other flaws include a cryptic and often bizarre diplomacy system. When you encounter 
 forces from other nations, you can opt for a parley to negotiate a trade or other diplomatic deal. 
 There seem to be a million loopholes in this system, however. For example, whenever I ran into 
 Balkoth's immense army, I pleaded with him to give me one of his champions for my army. He did 
 this on almost every occasion, then proceeded to attack and kill the unit (now under my control) . 
 Also, you cannot parley with the many "renegade" forces scattered throughout the land. This was 
 especially annoying when I ran into such forces of my own faith, who chose to fight me instead 
 of joining my cause (a la Civilization II's "friendly tribes") .  

 This leads to another problem with LOM: the basic premise. If the entire world is so severely threatened 
 by a common foe, why is it so difficult to convince other nations to join forces against him? A 
 nitpicky criticism? Possibly, but one that gnawed at me every minute I played the game. Other problems 
 include program crashes (even after the 1.02 patch) , numerous redraw problems, and questionable 
 decisions by the enemy AI (Balkoth's army will chase around a single Imp inside his borders, all 
 the while ignoring the two huge armies massing - within sight - just outside) .  

 Lords of Magic has a great deal of potential, and many of its shortcomings seem fixable. Hopefully, 
 Sierra and Impressions will correct some of them with future patches. Until then, just dig up a 
 copy of Heroes of Might and Magic II.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: JollyBobby123
Rating: 7
Date: May 23, 2008 6:19 pm PT
Review:  The game looks pretty unappealing when you just see the images and thats because it's so old but 
 after playing it you begin to understand that for it's time it was revolutionary. Sure the graphics 
 were pretty lame but the storyline was great and the concept kept you hooked, i fact the concept 
 has kept me hooked ever since I first played it those many years ago. Back in the day I thought 
 it was the best game ever to be created, which I now see is a little bit off, but I still consider 
 it an awesome game. If i had the chance i would be playing it today but i lost the disk in a move 
 and its proving hard to get but it is an old time favourite of mine and is definantly worth the 
 trouble. I'm sure that anyone out there who played it back in the old days would agree that the 
 game is awesome. P. S Death, Fire, and Life are da bomb in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellknight13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 4:05 am PT
Review:  Although I know that Lords of Magic has a bad reputation for having a poor (ish) stability, it still 
 works on my computer and putting the latest patch deals with most of the bugs on the game as well. 
 I really like this game because it's addictive and challenging. Although I have defeated death 
 in 3 hours I still play as one of my 3 favourite clans - Death, life and Fire. I usually become 
 able to make a deadly army with the life clan and when I worship death, I owned every single lord 
 with Balkoth  :D
  
  The game is rather difficult to start off with because there are a lot of strong monsters and bases 
 to begin with and other clans somehow manage to get away with 1000 resources when I have only 200 
 for each. I normally pick my leader type to be a warrior unless with death its always a mage since 
 Balkoth is a powerful sorcerer
  
  If some people hate this game, Fair enough. It just brings back the good old days for me when I 
 was younger than 10 XD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Cylamus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Another version of this game needs to be made, I am amazed that this game never really caught on. 
 Is there any company that will make something like this with more stuff and better graphics? There 
 is already a fair amount of variety, but my new computer cannot play the disk for some reason. 
 I would still play it, but I can't. The only real problems are in the scenario editor. This is 
 difficult to manage, and there are not very many options. The units need to be expanded. More units, 
 and the need to be more people in each battle. Although this is already excellent, I think that 
 these changes would make it the best PC game yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warnexus100
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  i bought the special edition 4-5 years ago instead of the original version. From my point of view, 
 the game is very good at its time. Everything for the most part works. Main Objective: Defeat Balkoth (Lord 
 of Death) and you beat the main game. Once you have done that you get to play Death. Voicecasting/Cinematics: 
 So there are different narrators who gives briefings in the game and also introduces the faith 
 lord you picked. Game Intro looks really good. I love the Ending just as much. Graphics: The sprites 
 are okay looking. The only unit i found interesting was the Dragon. The special effects from spells 
 are the 2nd coolest.
  
  Replay Value: It took me 5 hours to beat the main game. For $5, 5hrs of gameplay is not bad. For 
 the Special Edition there is Legend of Urak Quest: 5 in total. I'm starting to play as Balkoth. 
 Music Score: I love the orchestral music before the game plays the main menu theme.
  
  Difficulty: Game gets harder so try not to lose anyone in your army. Advice: Take down lv1 and 
 lv 2 lairs and caves. Experiement with the places. Always save your progress after every match
 
  
  Thats about it. Short and sweet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dzoldzaya
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  In the pointlessly nostalgia- hazed days of my youth, I played a demo of this game on a computer 
 that couldn't run it for more than 5 minutes at a time. Then gradually, as the hollow shell of 
 my life progressed, so did my playing of Lords Of Magic and, eventually, almost ten years on, I 
 have at last played the actual game on a system that can run it. This game is beautiful to me, 
 I struggle to describe why, but I get the same feeling when I recall any image of this game as 
 when I recall the most transcedent moments of my life: first kiss, first time I saw Pokemon on 
 TV, first time taking experimental drugs, first time playing a Final Fantasy, first teenage crush... 
 and this!!!! I think that, when you truly love something, you can't tie it down with practical 
 issues, and, to my lasting shame, that's how I feel about Lords Of Magic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonFire_CK
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 10, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  While the overall game idea is great, I have found that it is quite difficult to figure out how 
 to play. It seems it takes excessively long to generate a decent army, even one capable of traveling 
 a short distance from your capital without dieing. While in the version I have you can manage buildings 
 without an army in them, it is quite difficult to do so, as I have found a way neither to view 
 all the buildings you control, nor to view all the armies you have. The graphics are a bit dated, 
 but then again so is the game. The worst part of the graphics is that I have found it difficult 
 to identify the different types of buildings apart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J4CK_0F_SP4D35
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 29, 2006 8:34 am PT
Review:  This was among others one of the first games I've ever played. Although it got a 6.3 by GameSpot, 
 and a 7-7.5 from you guys, I think it deserves more. This game provides 8 different classes of 
 a turn based midevil fantasy world. The gameplay is a bit simple but for me and may taste is addicting 
 and fun. Back in '97 this was my game and I loved it. I don't expect you to go out and buy this 
 game because to be honest it justr isn't that good compared to todays standards (obviously) but 
 I just thought I'd throw in a review to reclaim it's glory no matter if some didn't like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 28, 2005 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Lords of Magic is a starategy game with various different elements mixed in. The overview map, 
 where you'll move your units around to cities and what-not takes place in turns while combat takes 
 place in real time. 
  
  This game has amazing depth and will require quite some time to get used to all the intricies of 
 combat and recruiting, etc... You select a hero from one of eight different powers and attempt 
 to gain fame and power 'till you can fight the last boss. During this time, however, you must face 
 the other seven powers to come out the strongest. 
  
  Lords of Magic is set in a fantasy type realm with heroes, mages, theives, and the like. You'll 
 search for artifacts, make alliances, train your units, and as many would say, much much more. 
 As you complete quests and gain fame and experience, you can recruit more units and level old units 
 as with an RPG. Because of this, you'll have to give thought to who you want to bring in battle 
 since you'll want to keep your higher level units. 
  
  When it comes time for a battle, you are taken to another screen where your men and the opponent 
 are lined up on opposite sides. The battles take place in real time, but are a bit of a mix though. 
 You can pause them whenever you wish if real time is just not your thing, but on whole, the battles 
 are messy anyways. When the two sides meet, everything gets a little crazy and all you can do is 
 hope your guys come out on top. Sometimes you won't even be able to see your men through all the 
 commotion, and sadly enough, the AI leaves much to be desired. 
  
  If you're absolutely bored out of your mind then this game might occupy you for awhile, but it 
 really doesn't have anything to keep you coming back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deano
Rating: 7.4
Date: Sep 27, 2004 5:39 am PT
Review:  lom was quite a deep unique game, with a mixture of turn based, realtime strategy and some rpg 
 elements thrown in unfortunately the game was broken. The original release was quite buggy with 
 horrendous load times and skills that didn't work. After it was patched though it fixed alot of 
 the problems.
  
  To start with you selected your faith and hero, there was a mage, theif and warrior class so bascially 
 there was 24 heroes to choose (except for death which could be later unlocked) . Your goal was take 
 your party around and attack and conquer enemy buildings and resources whilst gaining experience 
 and leveling your troops and building your cities. There was also many items that could be found 
 that your hero could use, so it made the questing quite interesting. The different faiths interacted 
 with each other depending alot on their opinions, so earth and air were always against each other, 
 but earth was somewhat friendly with the fire and death faiths. So it was kind of a light verse 
 dark kind of approach. 
  
  The thing about the game was that it was so huge, each faith had around a dozen different units. 
 So there was around 100 different units in the game, same with spells each faith had unique spells 
 to research, maybe around 20 odd so there was a good 160+ spells in the game. Another interesting 
 thing was the barter system than enabled you to trades spells, units and items.
  
  The graphics were quite well done, and I loved the soundtracks for this game.
  
  The thing 
 that let it down was the shoddy AI, it just used to do weird stuff like you could be allies with 
 another faith and then for no reason they would break it off and suddenly attack you for absolutely 
 no reason. You were also always offered pathetic trade deals, like a few hundred crystals for your 
 level 12 mage, but then the computer would go hostile on you if you rejected it.
  
  I keep coming back to it just because it is really deep despite it's flaws, the special edition 
 added more creatures and some cool questing to be done.
  
  If you ever see it in you bargain bin it would be worth a pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gumpo
Rating: 6.7
Date: Sep 1, 2004 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Lords of Magic was designed with an obvious competitor in mind: Heroes Of Might and Magic II. At 
 the time, it was the most popular fantasy strategy game, and probably the most popular strategy 
 game period.
  
  So, Impression combined the basic gameplay mechanics of their Lords of the Realm series, mixed 
 it with the fantasy theme of the Might and Magic franchise, and threw in killer graphics and visual 
 effects.
  
  When the game came out, the graphics were simply amazing - we're talking a game 6 years ahead of 
 its time visually. (Heroes of Might and Magic IV just acheived a smiliar graphic level) This meant, 
 however, you needed a beast of a system to run it. And even on top notch systems today, the code 
 is buggy enough that the AI turns seem to take decades.
  
  The gameplay is you basic turn based strategy fair, build armies and buildings, research (in this 
 case spells) and take over the world. Impression used a hero based army system, and worked it almost 
 exactly the same as their competitors. However, instead of turn based combat, they used a real 
 time engine, making battles and fights similar to those in a game of command and conquer, without 
 the base building.
  
  The story is less than average, in fact, the game barely delivers one with the exception of a few 
 tidbits in the manual.
  
  learning the mechanics of the game is a little awkward, it uses strange combinations of keys and 
 mouse clicks, that just dont seem normal to me, but after a while you can manage.
  
  In the end, your left with a well thought out game that just doesnt play as well as the other titles 
 in the genre. Of course, if you're tired of all the others, this one is worth a play, especially 
 with its now bargain bin price tag. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
