-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Lords of EverQuest
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/lordsofeq/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  4, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 6.2, 35 Review (s)
User Score: 5.5, 162 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sony Online Entertainment
Developer: Rapid Eye Ent.
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Dec 1, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Real-time strategy fans could easily find 2-year-old games that play, sound, and look much better 
 than this one. 

  Blizzard is translating its Warcraft series of real-time strategy games to the online role-playing 
 genre in its forthcoming World of Warcraft, so it's only fair that Sony Online Entertainment did 
 the reverse with EverQuest. The new Lords of EverQuest is a real-time strategy game based on the 
 EverQuest massively multiplayer online universe. It's clearly derived from other, previous real-time 
 strategy games, especially Blizzard's most recent, but a bland story in the single-player mode 
 and a host of gameplay issues make Lords of EverQuest feel like a cheap knockoff instead of a worthwhile 
 entry into an established genre.  

          Your lord can deal justice without much help at all.     

  Lords of EverQuest is set 
 10,000 years before the current timeline in EverQuest. Three factions vie for power and control 
 of Norrath's lands: the Shadowrealm, the Dawn Brotherhood, and the Elddar Alliance. These factions 
 are composed of the similarly aligned races found in EverQuest. For example, the Shadowrealm consists 
 of races such as trolls, iksar, and dark elves, while the Dawn Brotherhood has humans, dwarves, 
 and kerrans. If you're not familiar with these races from EverQuest, they'll seem like straightforward 
 high-fantasy archetypes to you.  

  You don't have to know anything about EverQuest to play the game, but only EverQuest players will 
 appreciate the units. Even with this in mind, the unit design in Lords of EverQuest is disappointing. 
 It seems as though the developers tried to find some way to throw in every single race and class 
 from the role-playing game without any clear purpose. For example, the Dawn Brotherhood's cavalry 
 are always kerrans, and its clerics are always dwarves. Any character can ride horses in the online 
 RPG, and many other races can also be clerics, so it would have been much more interesting if clerics 
 were sometimes dwarves and sometimes humans, for example. This may sound like nitpicking, but it's 
 just one of many instances of Lords of EverQuest failing to use its source material to deviate 
 from the standard RTS formula, even though the opportunity was there.  

  The three factions don't vary, either. What makes other real-time strategy games interesting is 
 that they're able to balance three or four completely different factions that play significantly 
 differently from one another. You'll find none of this variety in Lords of EverQuest beyond the 
 different graphics used to depict the sides. All of the factions have comparable units and play 
 styles -- each side has a healer, for example. It's to be expected that each faction in a real-time 
 strategy game will have some means of healing its forces, but in Lords of EverQuest, each side's 
 healer is essentially the same exact unit. The three factions build their bases in the same manner, 
 and they mine resources in the same manner. As if to continue the monotony, there's only one resource 
 to mine: platinum.  

  As the name may imply, Lords of EverQuest focuses on units called "lords," which are analogous 
 to hero units found in other strategy games. When you start a campaign or multiplayer game, you 
 choose a faction and then you pick a lord -- each faction has five to choose from, for a grand total 
 of 15 lords in the game. The lords radiate an aura that has a positive effect on nearby friendly 
 units and a negative effect on nearby enemy units. Lords also start out with one ability, but three 
 new abilities will progressively become available as the lords gain experience levels. Unfortunately, 
 there is little variety here, too. For instance, each faction has a lord that can have a "pet" 
 and a lord that has a "slow enemy attack speed" aura. Your lord will eventually become so powerful 
 that he or she can pretty much do everything alone. Lady T'lak from the Shadowrealm can take on 
 a group of enemies without breaking a sweat by instantly killing the most powerful enemy and then 
 using an attack speed upgrade to quickly take out the remainders.  

          Everyone just stands back and lets the healers do their work.     

  With such a powerful 
 lord, you'd imagine that other units would be worthless. That would be a correct assumption, for 
 the most part. A large group of healers can make you nearly invincible, and ranged units can take 
 down pesky air units, but everything else can just get in the way. That's too bad, because every 
 unit also gains levels and becomes more powerful. Unit levels would play a bigger part in the game 
 if the transfer system were better implemented. In the campaigns, you can transfer units to the 
 next mission, but you always have a limited number of transfer points, so you can take only a few 
 units with you. Additionally, once a unit hits level six, you can knight it. You can have up to 
 two knights, which gain an additional power and an aura as well as a free transfer to the next 
 mission. You can choose which unit would best complement your army with its aura, although being 
 knighted doesn't seem to raise its intelligence.  

  The artificial intelligence in Lords of EverQuest is rather pathetic. Moving units from point A 
 to point B works fine, but once they get to point B, things go downhill. Large groups of units 
 tend to get trapped by each other and won't move out of the way. The blocked unit may stop, or 
 it may decide to circle around the entire map and wind up in the enemy base. Things get even worse 
 when that wayward unit happens to be your lord. Expect to hear "Your lord has been slain" more 
 often than you should, due to this erratic behavior. This wouldn't be too much of a problem if 
 you could easily resurrect a fallen lord or knight. Instead, you have to recruit a special unit 
 that transfers its life essence into the fallen unit. The lord is the most powerful unit and the 
 backbone of your army, so if your lord dies in enemy territory, you're out of luck. Hint: Quicksave 
 is F9. Use it often.     

  Part of the problem with the AI is the lack of available unit behaviors. Units have an aggressive 
 behavior by default and will chase anything until it or they die. You can set a defensive and hold-position 
 behavior, but you have to do it every time the unit moves. If you forget just one time, you may 
 find your unit halfway across the map. It would also have been nice if there were unit formations 
 to help control your troops. Instead, all you can do is direct every unit to follow your lord. 
 Besides the aforementioned issue with clumps of units, sometimes units following your lord will 
 just stand still instead of taking part in combat that is several spaces away. Everything is supposed 
 to be streamlined so you don't have to micromanage, yet this is what you repeatedly have to do 
 just to get your units to fight.  

          While this message can be a morale booster, you'll see it far too long on SOEGames. net. 
     

  There are three campaigns in Lords of EverQuest -- one for each faction. The story is presented through 
 in-engine cutscenes before, during, and after missions. Unfortunately, the overall story is rather 
 dull and uninspiring, so watching the cutscenes feels like a chore. The Shadowrealm is facing a 
 civil war, the Dawn Brotherhood is fending off surprise attacks from the Elddar Alliance, and the 
 Elddar Alliance is searching for a missing leader. An interesting aspect of Lords of EverQuest 
 is that the scenarios for each faction are intertwined, and all three campaigns occur simultaneously 
 through different viewpoints. However, this would be more noteworthy if the overall story and characters 
 were more interesting in the first place.  

  The missions themselves are straightforward and have various objectives that you've probably seen 
 before in other real-time strategy games. The objectives include attacking enemy bases, playing 
 with limited units, or rescuing trapped units. The game is not very difficult and ends up being 
 a rinse-and-repeat formula of waiting until you mass enough forces to simply plow through the enemy. 
 The base defense missions are even easier. In one mission, there is only one chokepoint into your 
 base that is four units wide. You can simply have a bunch of units block the entrance and act as 
 shields for your ranged units behind them. In another base defense mission, you can simply go on 
 the offensive and take out the two enemy bases. Most of the time you can just use a handful of 
 units to dish out most of the damage, with a bunch of healers as support. This lack of a challenge 
 in the missions makes it hard to explore the unit options you have available because you simply 
 don't need them.  

  Your opponents aren't too challenging in the campaign. The computer relies on preset conditions 
 and scripted sequences to fight its battles. It sometimes throws units at your base, but the groups 
 are always small and are sent in intervals so you can deal with them easily. Missions are won through 
 sheer force rather than any sort of cunning. Even though each unit has a special ability, most 
 aren't influential in a battle. Since the computer doesn't focus its fire on particular units, 
 and healing spells restore a large amount of health of time, all you really need is a huge number 
 of clerics to win in the campaign. All told, it will take a typical RTS gamer about 20 hours to 
 slog through the game, if he or she cares to.  

  Lords of EverQuest of course offers multiplayer as an alternative to the single-player campaigns. 
 You can play against the computer or humans on a LAN or through Sony Online Entertainment's new 
 multiplayer service. SOEGames. net is a free service where gamers can meet each other and find games. 
 It's similar to other online services like Battle. net, where you can talk in chat rooms, search 
 for games, or use a quickmatch option to have the service find a game for you. We didn't find too 
 many players playing online, and those whom we did play against didn't seem too enthusiastic about 
 the game. Nevertheless, SOEGames. net is stable, and we didn't experience any disconnections during 
 the online sessions.  

  There are several multiplayer game modes to choose from. The standard real-time strategy game type 
 is last man standing, where you have to eliminate your foes. There are other unconventional game 
 types, such as body harvest and platinum rush, where you have to accumulate the most kills and 
 platinum, respectively, in a given amount of time. Grim reaper is a rush to be the only player 
 remaining with units, and lord of levels is a rush to gain the most levels in a short amount of 
 time. You can play as a team or just go at it in a free-for-all.  

  Creating a single-player skirmish against the computer can be counterintuitive. You have to create 
 a LAN game and then place computer opponents in the open slots. The skirmish AI is more of a challenge 
 than the campaign, although that isn't saying much. It will throw a large assortment of troops 
 at you and will sometimes level up its units by killing neutral creatures prior to setting its 
 sights on you. Leveling up your forces is more important in the skirmish mode than in the campaign 
 because you get extra platinum for killing random monsters on the map, and you gain experience 
 much faster. Despite the relatively tougher competition in the skirmish mode, the AI still has 
 its fair share of problems. It will leave armies idle as battles wage inside its base across the 
 map, and it will try to expand into an enemy-controlled mine. It just isn't a substitute for human 
 opponents.  

          You won't find any reason to continue playing no matter how hard you look.     

  On 
 the whole, Lords of EverQuest looks and sounds like a mediocre real-time strategy game. The environments 
 are nicely detailed, but the character models don't stand out. For some reason, the random neutral 
 creatures on the map tend to be much more interesting than your own units. The lackluster animations 
 become apparent in the in-engine cutscenes where large brutish ogres are prancing around like ballerinas. 
 Battles sound on par with the dull unit design -- it never sounds like a deadly pitched battle is 
 being fought. The music is just as forgettable.  

  Lords of EverQuest ends up being a disappointing addition to the real-time strategy genre. What 
 could have been an interesting premise and story ends up being a massive bore. The units just aren't 
 fun to use or even interesting to look at. Nothing in the game is memorable or original. Real-time 
 strategy fans could easily find 2-year-old games that play, sound, and look much better than this 
 one. Diehard EverQuest fans may find some redeeming value in a strategy game that features the 
 iksar and the frogloks, but even they are advised to shy away from purchasing the game     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: druid178
Rating: 5.7
Date: Nov 7, 2004 9:30 pm PT
Review:  I played this game for a while. I expected to be pretty good. However there were many things I 
 didnt like:
  
  1. No on was ever online for multiplayer
  2. I couldnt even play single player because the maps didnt seem to be in files
  3. campaign 
 got boring early
  
  The sound was phenominal and the graphics were suprisingly better than Warcraft 3's, but still 
 the amount of people playing and the campaingn made it a very mediocre game.
  
  This game had pontential t become a favorite strategy, but there was to much boringness and mediocrity 
 with this game. Warcraft was much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simechak
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 5, 2003 11:38 am PT
Review:  I liked it.
  
  I think perhaps the reviewer on this site was being a little too harsh. Rather than doing nothing 
 but juxtaposing the game against Warcraft III, why not judge it slightly more on it's own merit? 
 Granted, many of the games facets are seemingly blatant copies of Warcraft III. I must admit that 
 they game practically begs to be compared to Warcraft III. In this review, I'm going to compare 
 the two games, but I'm going to give Lords of Everquest the opportunity to stand on its own merit.
 
  
  What did Lords of Everquest do right (stolen from Warcraft III or not) ? 
  
  Well, I like the fact that the control scheme is very similar to Warcraft's. The units link in 
 the same basic manner, the special attacks function the same, as do the walk-here and attack-this 
 style moves and commands. The camera angles are ample to get a good look at the action from almost 
 any desireable angle. 
  
  The combat is relatively solid with all types of melee and magic being properly balanced. You have 
 ranged taking out flying, taking out heavy ground taking, our melee, taking out ranged. It is a 
 well-balanced system of attack and counter attack, and new units of appropriate types can be deployed 
 to take on any issue.
  
  What did Warcraft III do better? 
  
  Warcraft's Artificial Intelligence is vastly superior to Lord's. I'm sure alot of such credit goes 
 to the fact that Blizzard are veteran RTS programmers, and have well though out and developed RTA 
 AI coders. The two areas of biggest contention between the two games are computer attacking AI, 
 and character movement AI. As just about any review of Lord's that you can find says, the characters 
 are pretty dumb, and will run about the map in sometimes mind-boggling ways. A little extra babysitting 
 care is needed for the units in this game compared to Warcraft III. Honestly though, this is the 
 case for EVERY RTS besides Warcraft III, so it isn't very hard for me to get over this.
  
  What does Lords of Everquest do better, and what makes it stand apart?
  
  Lots of reviewers 
 seem to make light of the fact that you can level up all of the units in this game. They act as 
 if this doesn't matter, and can't impact that game that much, but I'm here to tell you they are 
 wrong. Sure, you can still make Starcraft-esque swarms of NPC's and launch a full scale attack. 
 But as small army of high level NPC's is just as, if not more, powerful than such a swarm. This 
 is something that Warcraft III didn't have. In WC3, no matter how high of a level your Hero was, 
 you still had to have a sufficient force of units to complete a given objective. Lord's is very 
 flexible in how it lets you approach a situation. You can make a swarm of low level NPC's and storm 
 a town by sheer numbers, or you can gradually level up an elite army, which you can carry with 
 you from one level to the next, and smite down the same town with 1/3 of the units, assuming you 
 have taken the time and effort to level and equip them properly.
  
  What about multiplayer?
  
  The soegames. net network is at least as good as battle. net. They 
 system is good at tacking your playing skills and matches you with like-skilled players. Best of 
 all, its free, just like battle. net.
  
  Lords of Everquest offers a good variety of multiplayer modes, but I'll spare you repeating what 
 Gamespot's review already stated.
  
  In conclusion, no, this game is not as "super-cool" as Warcraft III, but for a company's FIRST 
 attempt at an RTS, Rapid-Eye Entertainment did a DARN FINE job if I do say so myself. Watch out 
 for these guys in the future. I think they might have something up their sleeves to show the world 
 what they are truly capable up.
  
  Hats off to SoE and Rapid Eye for a game well done! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
