-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Lords of the Realm III
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/lordsoftherealm3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 26, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 5.5, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 6.0, 556 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Impressions Games
Developer: Sierra Ent.
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Mar 17, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Lords of the Realm III is one of the freshest, most satisfying games produced by Impressions in 
 years, and it's a great real-time strategy game in its own right. 

  The road to release for Impressions Games' latest, Lords of the Realm III, has been a bumpy one. 
 Last fall, Sierra abruptly yanked the game from the November shipping schedule and postponed its 
 release date until spring. Then, just a month before the game was finally due to hit stores in 
 March, the publisher announced that it would ship at a $19.99 budget price. Given the usual state 
 of most budget-priced PC games these days, this usually isn't a good sign. So you'd be forgiven 
 for assuming the game to be something of a disaster. However, you'd also be wrong. Lords of the 
 Realm III is one of the freshest, most satisfying games produced by Impressions in years, and it's 
 a great real-time strategy game in its own right.  

          Everything is in real time here. You have to fight at three or four places simultaneously, 
 and you must make hard choices about which battles to manually control and which to turn over to 
 the computer.     

  Lords of the Realm III makes some pretty major changes to the formula. All of the typical elements 
 from the developer's creaky city-building series have been dumped in favor of a real-time strategy 
 approach that goes heavy on tactics and light on resource-gathering. Medieval kingdom management 
 is streamlined and easy to pick up, yet at the same time, the scale of play is epic enough that 
 you can conquer whole nations and besiege numerous castles simultaneously.  

  Those looking for a straightforward sequel to Lords of the Realm II, however, will be disappointed. 
 This is a very different game, which is a fact that shouldn't surprise anyone since its predecessor 
 was released in 1996. Where the 8-year-old Lords of the Realm II was a rudimentary city-building 
 sim where you had to put smiles on the faces of your peasants, the follow-up is a straightforward 
 RTS that's spread across a strategic map interface and a combat screen. Events take place on the 
 two levels simultaneously in real time (you can't even pause to give orders) , so you can't get 
 so wrapped up in directly managing a battle at one castle that you forget about what's happening 
 at another. Instead, you have to bounce back and forth between the two, manually controlling key 
 conflicts and letting the computer handle everything else.  

  "Elegant" and "simple" are the best words to use when describing this system. It doesn't provide 
 an in-depth perspective on running a medieval kingdom, and as such, it is far removed from the 
 much more detailed Lords of the Realm II. However, it does supply a catchy Cliffs Notes version 
 that doesn't get bogged down in minutiae. Impressive artificial intelligence allows you to rely 
 on the computer to win the battles that you should win, and it doesn't make you feel as though 
 you have to micromanage every conflict. Additionally, you can duck in and out of battles as often 
 as you want. For example, if you don't trust the computer's ability to completely handle the assault 
 on a strongly fortified castle, you can manually set the siege engines in place and arrange your 
 troops before turning over control.  

  Being able to trust the artificial intelligence is a good thing in Lords of the Realm III, since 
 each of the four solo campaigns (set in medieval Ireland, England, France, and Germany) require 
 you to fight on two or three fronts at once. You might be razing a village, besieging a castle, 
 defending a castle, and waging war in the field simultaneously. Thankfully, the combat engine focuses 
 more on tactics than on rushing. Troops are organized into companies that are led by knights, which 
 simplifies orders since a single click sends a group of soldiers into the fray. Most important 
 decisions are made before the battle, so you don't have to be an expert mouse-slinger to win the 
 day. It's more vital to set a proper order, choose from the eight available formations (two to 
 four are open to each company, depending on unit type) , and maneuver troops into appropriate attack 
 positions (terrain matters) than it is to click quickly once the battle begins. Otherwise, units 
 can panic and be routed.  

          As expected in a game dealing with medieval warfare, there is a lot of siege combat. Smashing 
 fortifications with catapults and ascending castle walls with the aid of siege engines is a routine 
 occurrence.     

  Unit types also keep things fairly simple. While there are 18 different soldiers that run the gamut 
 of medieval European specialties, from peasant militias, to cavalry, to Teutonic knights, they 
 each fall into a few basic categories that work well for most tactical plans. Each may have wildly 
 different strengths -- so, for instance, nobles are far stronger than swordsmen -- but you can generally 
 use all classes of foot soldiers in the same way. There are, however, counter-units that are good 
 for specific situations. Pikemen, for example, are best-suited for use against cavalry charges. 
 Ranged units are deployed in similar fashion. Of course, though, you have to take into account 
 such variances as the added power of Welsh longbowmen over regular bowmen. Overall, there is enough 
 variety to keep you interested but not so much that you're constantly looking to the manual.  

 
  Battles are frenetic, but at least you don't have to worry about the home front. Kingdom management 
 is centered on the assignment of four different types of vassals to develop parcels of land. These 
 characters are responsible for all of the base development and unit deployment in the game. Sign 
 them into your service, and they recruit soldiers, bring along the family siege weaponry, make 
 money, grow food, and are required to upgrade buildings. Deploy a knight, and he'll fortify a parcel 
 and raise troops. Move a clergyman out to boost both your health and your Christianity rating, 
 which improves productivity. Call on the burgher to build towns and to generate gold, or send in 
 the serf when you need to drum up manpower to produce food. Vassals automatically collect the game's 
 two resources (of food and gold crowns) , so all you have to do is keep them deployed in the right 
 areas to ensure that your armies are fed and that your treasury is full.     

  Some management is required when looking after the vassals, though. In addition to the four main 
 varieties, they are sorted into experience levels (lesser, common, regional, and kingdom) and often 
 come with bonuses. More-powerful knights, for instance, typically feature bonuses to such qualities 
 as ferocity and bravery. Others might require you to fulfill specific tasks. Grazino the Wicked, 
 for instance, might demand that his lord's Christianity rating be no higher than two, while Dreux 
 the Valiant might demand a chivalry rating of at least six. Burghers, clergymen, and serfs don't 
 have personalities as developed as those of knights, although they also have their own bonuses. 
 Top burghers, for example, have higher skills when it comes to raising money.  

          Despite the frantic elements of medieval warfare, troop formation is vital. Attacking enemy 
 castles is much easier if you have soldiers in appropriate formations when entering battle.    

  Different knights come equipped with varied unit types and siege weaponry, too. At certain times -- particularly 
 when you're gearing up to besiege a castle and need knights with access to siege engines, mangonels, 
 trebuchets, and the like -- you need to play musical chairs to shuffle incoming knights with better 
 equipment into the mix. However, you can also go on a buying spree in a burgher vassal's city, 
 which allows you to hire special agents like siege engineers, who come with such hardware. Vassals 
 appear to continually offer you their services during a campaign -- since they are sparked by both 
 your successes on the field and by specific trigger events -- so there is usually a strong lineup 
 available whenever new parcels of land are added to your kingdom.  

  The only complaint with all of the above is that sometimes the system works too well at automating 
 kingdom-building endeavors. From the starting position in most campaigns, you can build a powerful 
 army right off the bat by combining troops from four or five vassals. Then you can just let the 
 computer win siege after siege for you. This leaves you with nothing to do but wait for battles 
 to be resolved, since the management portion of the game deals with little but selecting and deploying 
 vassals. Diplomacy also feels tacked on and is lacking some important options. You can give gifts 
 to rivals to encourage alliances, for example, but you can't demand alliances.  

  Fortunately, later campaigns increase in difficulty, largely due to the more-advanced castles found 
 in later eras as you move from the 11th century to the 15th. By the time you reach France and Germany, 
 for instance, most attacks on enemy fortresses have to be manually directed because the enemy artificial 
 intelligence goes from easygoing to murderous. Advances are countered, weak points are searched 
 out, and computer sides will even dig in, develop cities, and hire loads of mercenary soldiers 
 around the estate if you begin to carry the day in the outlying regions of a lord's territory. 

  Just as the gameplay is much better than you'd probably expect from a $20 release, so is the audio 
 and video. The game's sound quality is immaculate. The most notable feature is a gothic musical 
 score that boasts an eerie organ that's reminiscent of Halloween-inspired versions of Bach's Toccata 
 and Fugue in D-minor. Battles occur amid a cacophony of metal clashing and shouts. Unit-recognition 
 responses are varied and inspired. Hearing a knight yell "Torch the countryside!" when you give 
 the raze command is immensely satisfying.  

  The visuals are also very good, though they're not particularly polished. While everything is in 
 3D -- even terrain features -- animations are a little choppy. Cavalry units slide more than gallop, 
 and troops going over a castle wall bunch up so tightly that they form a pulsating mass. Still, 
 an impressive amount of detail is provided, particularly during sieges when you set afire a palisade 
 with flaming arrows or you bring down a stone wall with a catapult.  

          Graphic frills and the fully 3D engine are most notable during sieges. Send bowmen with 
 fire arrows against a palisade, and expect to see some pyrotechnics as the wooden walls come down. 
     

  There is also a lot of content here for a bargain game. Along with the four campaigns, which feature 
 more than a dozen lengthy missions that have you fighting against numerous enemy lords, there are 
 single-player maps based on famous battles, such as those at Hastings and Agincourt. Expect to 
 dedicate a good 40 hours to playing everything. Internet and LAN multiplayer modes allow up to 
 eight players to battle it out, and Sierra has already released a downloadable castle editor that 
 lets players build custom fortresses that can be exported into single-player and multiplayer scenarios. 

  Impressions has hit a great balance in Lords of the Realm III by providing lots of duties to fulfill, 
 as both a king and general, while still managing to dodge the usual pitfalls of micromanagement 
 and flimsy tactical depth. A game as good as this deserves more respect than that offered by release 
 delays and getting kicked out the door with no fanfare.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (27 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: cottoneyej31
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 3:12 am PT
Review:  Wow, this game is really terribad.
  
  The good. 
  
  While some people may say the graphics are dumb. The graphics are kinda nice I think.
  
  Different 
 units with different strengths and weaknesses. And ability to get better units by behaving certain 
 ways.
  
  The BAD.
  
  
  Standard battles on open plains are ok. But just wait till you try to siege. Go ahead. Try it. 
 If your soldiers dont get stuck on a siege ladder and climb endlessly....... watch them get slaughtered 
 by a group of peasants with pitchforks garrisoned in a tower. Or, try to tell your men to get off 
 the damn wall and go into the center of the castle you are siegeing. The just stand there.
  
  So most of the time you are forced to let the AI do the battling because only it can seemingly 
 overcome the terrible programing and soldiers that wont follow orders. But then half the time even 
 the AI doesn't know what its doing. Leave the battle field and let the AI fight it for you to manage 
 some things. Come back sometime later, both armies are in the exact same spot. 
  
  Get done with the first campaign. And if you are anything like me, youll say to yourself. "Wow, 
 I know like in lords of the realm II all the maps are essentially the same and you do the same 
 things... but at least LOTR II it was simple, fun and WORKED. Screw this" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 28, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Lords of the Realm 3 is the most recent addition to the now ancient, but well made Lords of the 
 Realm series. Its surprising that it took this long for a new Lords of the Realm to come out, especially 
 after how great Lords 2 was. So is lords 3 as good as Lords 2? Ultimately, it depends on what your 
 looking for.
  
  Lords of the Realm 3 offers several campaigns for players to go through. These campaigns cover 
 varying points in Medieval history, such as the reign of Barbossa in Germany, the crusade against 
 the Cathars in Toulouse (I doubt I spelled that right) , and several others. The basic gameplay 
 in Lords 3 has you vying for control of many regions with other lords, just like in Lords 2. But 
 the similiarites end there. For starters, Lords 3 is completely real-time, so you'd better be ready 
 for some serious micromanaging! OK, not really actually, for Lords 3 handles its new system extremely 
 well, even with all of those battles going on all around the map.
  
  When you gain a new land by taking its main estate province, you can assign your vassals to its 
 parcels of land. There are 4 kinds of vassals: Knights who provide your armies, clerics who make 
 money, priests who keep your religion rating high, and peasants who make food for your armies. 
 You'll need to use all of these vassals accordingly in order to win, and the system makes it very 
 easy to get built up in a matter of minutes. This makes the actual base-building part of the game 
 very short and simple, so you can concentrate on all the combat going on.
  
  The game's combat is actually quite simplistic when you reach the battlefield. The combat is actually 
 where Lords 3 seems to share the most similarities with Lords 2, since both game's share the aspect 
 of almost mindless combat. Lords 3 however benefits from some actual formations, making battle 
 organisation a bit easier. Other than that, the combat is very similar to Lords 2. This also applies 
 to the sieges, so if you liked the combat in lords 2, you should be right at home with Lords 3's 
 combat. There is a catch however- most of the game's scenarios will have you fighting on at least 
 2 fronts at any given time, and the game continues at full speed when your in combat! Fortunately, 
 you can leave battles up to the AI, which should be able to win battles your supposed to win. The 
 AI is really quite simple in its tactics, and can be slow to get started in combat. But when it 
 starts making its moves, it generally pulls them off effectively. So while the gameplay is all 
 good, there is one major problem with Lords 3... And that would be its replay value. Lords 3 only 
 offers 5 relatively short campaigns. When your done with those, all you'll have left to do is multiplayer 
 with those exact same campaign maps, or one-off battles. Both of these will undoubtedly get boring 
 pretty quickly. But ultimately, that's what you get since Lords 3 is a budget priced game. Also, 
 Lords fans expecting a game similar to Lords 2 should stay away from Lords 3, this is not the game 
 your looking for.
  
  Graphically, Lords 3 is not pretty. The unit models in both the strategic map and world map are 
 ugly, and the environments are bland. Sound wise, the game has some surprisingly good voice acting, 
 along with some unpredictable combat sounds that don't always play at the right time.
  
  While the limited replay value is a bummer, Lords 3 has some great gameplay that is worth anyone's 
 time to try. So ultimately, the mileage with Lords 3 will vary tremendously from customer to customer.
 
  
  Pros: Fast-paced gameplay that is well managed, limiting excessive micromanagement. The combat 
 system is old-fashioned, but still fun to use. Single-player campaigns are challenging enough to 
 keep you occupied for at least a while. Effective AI.
  
  Cons: Extremely limited replay value. Bland graphics.
  
  Recommendable for: RTS gamers who 
 want a bargain priced and challenging experience would do well to give Lords 3 a try. Gamers who 
 want a true Lords 2 sequel- stay away! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anguille02
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 21, 2007 1:07 am PT
Review:  Obviously, only a few peope understand this game... and it's an easy one.
  
  People should not compare it to Lords 2 as they are indeed very different. Also, before being a 
 RTS, it is mostly a strategy game.
  
  The game: - strategic map. You have to place vassals. Sounds easy and it is in the beginning cos 
 you don't have much choices (yet) . You have farmers (food) , you have priests (relations) , you have 
 burghers (money -&gt; mercenaries, relations and upgrading of castles) and you have Knights (armies) . 
 All of them are different and the deeper you go into the game (and depending on your actions) , 
 the more you will have. Managing and placing all these vassals is part of the strategy and get's 
 more difficult with time (there are more than 500 different vassals with different troops and qualities... a 
 good knight has bigger companies than bad ones) . You have to think about your military strikes 
 carefully and also keep an army or two to guard your backyard as he ai sees your weak points and 
 attack them. The wrong strategy and you've lost very quickly.
  -Combat map. Well it's not praetorians nor TW, but it's very well done. The ai knows very well 
 how to attack your castle.
  
  Bad:
  I don't like the way the AI places his troops to defend his castle. It doesn't make it so much 
 easier but still.
  
  The very very bad: no printed manual. This is bad. However, it seems that almost nobody here has 
 been able (or knows how) to download the manual from the homepage sierra. Plenty of information 
 there. The very very good: the game is simple but difficult to master. Most of the player seem 
 to stop after the campaign of Ireland. That campaign is actually the last part of the tutorial 
 and it is very basic. The real fun begins later.
  
  Don't resign until you've played the Black Prince scenario. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arch-Villain
Rating: 1.9
Date: Feb 5, 2007 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Lords of the Realm III is a disgrace.
  
  There are literally so many things wrong with this game that I do not know where to start. Whatever 
 I say here will in no way prepare you for the extreme pile of unimaginative, boring, and revolting 
 dog piss that is Lords of the Realm III.
  
  I am going to stray form my usual review format and make this really simple:
  
  The Good - 
 The box art is much better than the utter crap found in the game.
  
  It's found in many bargain bins.
  
  The Bad -
  
  Lords of the Realm III is an RTS; It strayed 
 from the winning, turn based formula of its two predecessors for no good reason. The artwork is 
 horrible, and makes the game look silly, stupid, and lame. The in game graphics are bland, simplistic, 
 dull, and lifeless.
  
  It was made.
  
  It cost money.
  
  I could write an entire book listing the many flaws of this game, but I am not going to. If you 
 want to see the game that shoved the final nail in Impression's coffin, pick up a copy of Lords 
 of the Realm III. Just make sure that you keep your receipt so you can return it for a refund the 
 next day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoogieManFL
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 28, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is terrible. It could have been more, but it's not. Epic castle sieges? More like, 400 
 soldiers standing in a 3ft square fighting . What were they thinking? A complete waste of time. 
 If you're a fan of mismanaging time, or terrible games, then go right ahead. Otherwise, go play 
 with a rabid Grizzly Bear instead. It'd be more interesting. I wouldn't take a copy of it for free. 
 And I'm sorry I wasted $20 on it.
  
  I'm sorry for the people who made it, I assume they just didn't get the time (or budget) required 
 to refine it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eller1
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 13, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  There is a huge disconnect from the person playing, to the computer supposedly handling everything 
 else for you. You do nothing but fight battles and try to take over capitals' in a province again 
 and again in the same province. You can defeat one army and another will show up out of nowhere 
 to fight over the same city you thought you took. And you can't take the province until all enemy 
 troops are cleared. The Ai can produce endless amounts of armies and you it's hard and time consuming 
 to come up with just a third of what the computer can create. The only defense you have is your 
 armies or capitol's that are upgraded to strong castles, but don't rely on these fortresses. The 
 enemy can lay waste to pretty much anything else if you don't have an army in the vicinity. O wait 
 you hardly have any troops to raise to defend much less go on the offensive. The economy you hire 
 a burgher to create a city and procure gold that's it. Diplomacy is just hype, you don't have time 
 for cause the game is real time even when fighting battles be careful. Religious factor it's niether 
 bad nor good. the music is probably the better part of the game. I could go on for another ten 
 pages I'll just warn you stay away from this game, and don't listen to gamespots' review they seriously 
 distorted the truth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jim003
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 4, 2006 8:55 am PT
Review:  My favorite game of all time is Lords of the Realm II. I subscribed to GameTap just to be able 
 to play it again because the original wouldn't play on my XP system.
  
  I was looking forward to this game for a long long time. I can't believe GameSpot gave this an 
 8.4. I would give it a ZERO if I could. This game went in so many different directions it never 
 was able to excel in any of them.
  
  I just wished they would have made it more like Lords of the Realm II. Turn based and then real 
 time and not both.
  
  If your a fan of the series DO NOT BUY THIS GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YourOpFeR
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 6, 2007 6:49 am PT
Review:  Ok.... LotR II was cool. Very cool. One of my friends had it and we always played it together, 
 having much fun.
  
  Then... LotR III came. I bought it, because I thought: If LotR II is very good, LotR III must be 
 perfect. How wrong I was...
  
  After buying and installing this and starting the 1st map I felt like a poor little fool who was 
 betrayed by big concerns which only want to make money. This title is crappy, it is a shame for 
 the whole LotR series, it's boring, ugly, uninspired and has only about 10 maps and some boring 
 battle maps. There is no free play... if you want to play a map in singleplayer mode, you must 
 play a campaign scenario. If you don't play the campaign, you'll never have all maps and you'll 
 never be able to play a real singleplayer game. Because you can only play the maps in Campaign 
 mode, you cannot play as every county, making things even worse and killing most of the fun you 
 could have with this game... IS THIS A JOKE?!? I PAYED 19 FOR THIS PIECE OF &amp;$ &amp;%% !!! 
 AND IT'S NOT EVEN WORTH 50 cent!!!
  
  However, I kept playing... I paid 19 and I was not going to just throw this game away, even if 
 it was the biggest piece of crap I've ever seen for the PC.
  
  I never played through it, but I got quite far. The game became at least a little entertaining 
 later on. Nevertheless, this thing was not worth 19 and was one of the biggest disappointments 
 of the year 2004.
  
  Overall, this game was only made to make people buy it because of its name and its great predecessors. 
 It's quality is poor and it's a big big disappointment. I really can't understand why gamespot 
 rated it 8.4. This must be a bad joke! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentat76
Rating: 1.4
Date: Jul 27, 2006 6:53 am PT
Review:  I cant believe they have again ruined a game sadly this time this game!!!
  
  I have spent 100s of hours for the LOR1 and with LOR2 more than that but i couldnt spend more than 
 2 hours with this game. I cant even write down PROs and CONs for this game as i always do in my 
 reviews..
  
  I actually am very upset to see such a good name is ruined. I hate to see this when developers 
 do that. They take a good name and they change its every aspect like, is it a RTS? FRP? FPS? doesnt 
 matter for them. 
  
  They just say: What is the trend today? FPS? ok. we are going to change the turn based style of 
 Lords to FPS for the LOR3. It was a strategy game? forget it , it is going to be an arcade game, 
 they sell very well nowadays so, do it!
  
  Shame on you people. You dont have rights to act like that. I am ***ing tired of seeing billions 
 of same kinds of games are created one after another and i am ***in pissed of seeing them in familiar 
 names & brands which i consider foolng people with hiding behind good names. That is nothing but 
 a cash cow policy!
  
  And I have never seen a Gamespot review such in-accurate. I condemn Gamespot for that. I Invite 
 Gamespot for a new policy like, dont review "Copy of another / identicalgames with high scores. 
 Spare your high scores for Innovative & Revolutionary games. Please protect your quality!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: essereetico
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 22, 2006 5:13 am PT
Review:  A TOTALE DISTASTER, A COMPLETE TOTAL AND SHAMEFUL DISASTER.
  
  I was waiting the sequel of the lords of the realm 2 that at my advice is A MASTERPIECE and judged 
 on this site about 7.0 like a mediocre game.
  I suggest you to all of you to play LORDS OF THE REALMS 2 also if it's
  grapchic is really dated, 
 i think is a game of about 10 years ago... I still remember the crossbowan shout "RIGHT BETWEEN 
 THE EYES !!!!!" and the pikemen in front lines during battle that could last lots of time against 
 a very good but not perfect A. I.
  
  The music of that game was really great, i have the .wav files to hear them and the voice are really 
 great too.
  
  I don't think games of today also if lots of better in graphic and look can give you that thrill 
 of those old masterpieces, and i hope some good games intelligents and that can give you emotions 
 will come out soon.
  
  HEY I'M SPEAKING OF LORDS OF THE REALM 2 A GAME OF 10 YEARS AGO (don't know exactly but it's OLD) 
 THAT IS STILL FUN TO PLAY, AT LEAST FOR ME !!!!!!!
  
  Ah yes but this is LOTR3 REVIEW... sorry.... the only thing i have to say is that after i played 
 about 1 hour and something and i saw the knight of my army resuscitaed in a castle after killed 
 in a battle, that silly map with regions, a confused and really trash management system, I put 
 out the cd from my drive and sold it on EBAY at about 3 euros when i payed it 39 euros.
  
  It was shameful for me keep this game in my home.
  
  ... with that name "LORDS OF THE REALM" 
 that remembered me lots of fun with my friends with the soldiers charging and screaming, sieging 
 castles and planting wheat and breed cows... (i'm speaking of the second of course) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeytoes61
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 8, 2006 5:37 pm PT
Review:  A great game for any one but differs from any regular RTS you have ever played. First you make 
 your lord, customizing what he looks like, and what your shield is. There are 2 levels to the game: 
 the strategic and battle. The battle level is where you battle (hence the name battle level) . In 
 the battle level you dont command each unit alone. They are all in companies or regiments. Each 
 regiment has 1 knight to lead it and 4 different positions it can be in. There is a lot of different 
 troop types too, ranging from swordsmen to Teutonic Knights. Also there are some incredible sieges. 
 On the strategic level, you tell your armies where to go and manage your country. You start with 
 your capital city and 3 or 4 parcels. You can put Serfs, Burghers, Priests, or Knights on them. 
 Knights will turn the parcel into a castle and you will get an army. A serf will make a farm which 
 feeds your troops. Burghers make a town which will give you crowns (gold) . And priests make a church, 
 raising your Christianity level. This is also where you move your armies around. To get more parcels 
 you must take enemy capital castles. Then that whole region becomes yours. There are many Campaigns 
 to play, keeping you busy for a while. This is a fantastic game but took a while to figure out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lostpoet85
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 3, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  The battle mode is great in this game, it's so much fun to lay seige to a castle. The notion of 
 ladders seems to be a novel idea as well, seeing as how it's the first time I've seen it in a game. 
 You don't have to just wait for your soldiers to magically break down a wall with their swords 
 anymore. Seige weapons are an absolute must.
  
  As far as the strategic map, it can be somewhat frustrating. Enemy armies can seeminly multiply 
 like rabbits, swarming all over your territories unchallenged, raping your land, reducing your 
 productivity until you can finally hire enough mercenaries to send out onto the field of battle. 
 It's very difficult to raise an army of your own, therefore, mercenaries are essential to your 
 success.
  
  In my opinion, Medieval: Total War is a superior game, but I had beaten that game several times 
 before I bought Lords 3, and seeing as how I don't have a powerful computer, Lords 3 was essentially 
 the next logical buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hallithk
Rating: 1.6
Date: Jan 7, 2006 4:38 am PT
Review:  This game has terrible graphic and i dont understand anything in it and the best thing is sound 
 wich is terrible too so PLEASE dont buy this game
  buy Pokmon cards 
 
   
 WW WWWW **** WWWWW WWWWWWWW WW WWWWW WWWWWW WWWWWWWW WWWWWWW ****W WWWWWWWW ****WW WWWWW WWWWWWWW 
 WWW la lalal al lal lal lal alal alala la lalla lalal l llala al al alla lla lala la lalaal ll 
 lal al al al a la lal a lal al a lal a lla lal al lal la lal la la la la lla la la al l l al al 
 la la as l al l al al al aal al alal al al al al 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloppelop2
Rating: 3.3
Date: Dec 2, 2005 5:38 am PT
Review:  I first fell in love with Lords of the Realms I, and there I saw something new and fascinating... 
 When Lords of the Realms II arrived, I checked it out, and thought it was perfect! Almost...
  The 3rd game in the series is not at all a similar game to the too earlier games. First of all, 
 I was amazed how ugly the graphics are. I saw screenshots and was suddenly scared of buying it. 
 Buuut, I felt I had to check it out...
  Lords of the Realms III, is a medieval game, where you rule some land, and have to maintain connections 
 to the other rulers and in the meantime, build up your lands. That is how it works on paper, but 
 in-game, the situation is something else...
  The speed of the game is a lot faster than it should be! The earlier games were based on that you 
 had some moves and time to think whatever you wanted to be done, and then you could advance into 
 a new quarter. Turnbased, I think it is called. Your enemies also got their turn in the meantime, 
 and that slow and calming way, was just wonderful, while the landscabes changed to the time of 
 the year. Here, in LotR III, you almost get stressed by the speed, where you barely have time to 
 enjoy the game.
  So, while playing the game, it is obviously, that the gamemakers have decided to make LotR a Clich 
 of a bad and boring war strategy game, like Age of Empires. Suddenly, it is no longer about your 
 land. Well, you can now get vassals to rule for you, and it COULD have been good, but instead it 
 is just awfully bad! There is no real personality to the vassals, and sooner or later it gets SO 
 boring that you no longer think about how the person looks like. Now, it only matters of the army 
 size!
  Cause LotR III is basically only about gathering your armies, and attack your enemies... There 
 is no economics, technology or fresh thinking! Man!, in LotR I, there was even a kind of newspaper 
 when you entered a city! That was cool, cause you could relax, think about what to produce, trade 
 a little and such things... There is nothing like that at all in LotR III... Only combat! I really 
 miss some medieval fun, where you could get some events and things would happening. Some Personality 
 to the game perhaps! You have a ruler, but it is just a name and a picture! 
  Now, when you enter a battle, it looks a lot like other war games. The 2D is gone, and instead 
 it is a bad-shaped and VERY ugly 3D battle you control!
  You would might think they would make the men look a little comic-alike, but NO!, they are very 
 badly made... I dont care about rotating around them over and over again! I just want some nicely 
 made men to fight with!
  However, it is easy to control, and the combat works. However, there are major Bugs and troubles 
 in the graphics and it is difficult to get an overview.
  The nice and moodfilled cinematics is also gone, after battles. Probably because everything has 
 to go so quickly!
  The Maps look a lot like each other, and there is no weather, climate or time effects or anything! 
 You dont feel like in the medievals at all... A big big anoying thing, is that there is no ships! 
 Very very dissapointing...
  The campaigns are ok, storybased, but in-game, it is just the same and same over and over again... 
 No personality or anything speciel!
  The Diplomacy looks fun, but it is actually very little useful. Alliances are no good, cause you 
 have to kill your enemies anyway! 
  There is no ressources. Only money, which is VERY easy to get. And then food, which also is VERY 
 easy. Actually, the game is TOO easy.
  The music is okay, though some of the sound-effects are quite annoying to listening to over and 
 over again...
  I would never recomand anybody to buy this game, or even use time on it! I only bought it, because 
 I thought the game could live up to Lords of the Realm I & II. 
  But no... The game has changed, and it seems like the creators have started on making this game 
 with some good ideas, and then thought about something funnier to do, and then just mixed this 
 game up, which as I said is poor and bad entertaining. It reminds too much of other bad war-based-medieval-strattegy 
 games, just that LotR III is a lot worse than all of them...
  It is dissapointing and shameful, and I feel sad that I never will see original classy, and well 
 made games like LotR I & II, which had other things in them, than just bad 3D battle graphics...
 
  A very dissapointing try, to make Lords of the Realm modern... 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mindaugasx
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 12, 2005 2:23 am PT
Review:  If you want to get to the times when a war was spreading all the time, thats a game for you. In 
 this game you must conquer as much as you can. Games graphics are pretty good and the game it self 
 is quite interesting. That is not that kind of game that you may learn in just an hour and win 
 in just 5 minutes. The battles are very long and you spend about a lot of time just waiting for 
 the end of some battle. It is hard to order all of your armies. There might be over 15 small armies 
 at once and you may find it difficult to make them join your forces. It is also difficult to controll 
 all of your regions at once. While you are despretly trying to find out witch army where, the enemies 
 might gain controll of your region where in the heart of it isn`t a castle, but a cathedralh.
 
  
  Good things: 
  1. You wont be able to win all games in a week, so that`s a game for a long time
  2. Graphics 
 are good.
  3. You wont always be the only one who will be attacked again and again. (no all allays exept for 
 me)
  Bad things:
  1. Long and boring battles
  2. Difficult to organise your armies
  3. Hard to controll all regions at once (stongold here, castle there, my mercenaries there and castle 
 there and there.... Where is my center with army???!!!)
  4. Mostly one boring music. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: barsag
Rating: 2.1
Date: Nov 6, 2005 11:10 am PT
Review:  I am a big fan of the old LORDS II which was a very good strategy game. But this new version III 
 is very different game with very little strategy.
  The graffic is boring and the controls difficult to learn.
  For long time you only have to look 
 and wait while the troops slowly moves
  over the screen. In a real strategy game I want to control the economy, foodsuply and building 
 of armys. To choose what kind of soldiers I need, cavalery, bowmen, crossbows or footsoldiers. 
 In this game most of this is done outside my control.
  
  Dont buy this game, instead reload your old LORDS II or buy eg. ROME total war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: morgoth18
Rating: 6.9
Date: Oct 28, 2005 1:06 pm PT
Review:  i was very disapointed in this game. being a lord of the realm 2 fan for a long time, this game 
 killed my thoughts of any other games being like lord of the realm 2's game play. i was disapointed 
 for right now, but if my thought change, i will let you know. now here are some more lord of the 
 rings poems.
  
  Snow-white! Snow-white! O Lady clear!
  O Queen beyond the Western Seas!
  O Light to us that wander here
  Amid the world of woven trees!
 
  
  
  Gilthoniel! O Elbereth!
  Clear are thy eyes and bright thy breath!
  Snow-white! Snow-white! We sing to thee
  In a far land beyond the Sea.
  
  
  O stars in 
 the Sunless Year
  With shining hand by her were sown,
  In windy fields now bright and clear
  We see your silver blossom blown!
  
  
  Oh Elbereth! 
 Gilthoniel!
  We still remember, we who dwell
  In this far land beneath the trees,
  Thy starlight on the Western Seas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 5.3
Date: Oct 13, 2005 10:36 pm PT
Review:  I saw Gamespot's rating of 8.4 and I expected that this was going to be a good game. I was wrong. 
 It was terrible. It did have some nice features though. 
  
  The catapults actually had people mounting up rocks to hurl at buildings. Touche. Not many games 
 did that at its time. You could also have battles on walls after wheeling siege ladders to them, 
 this however is even more of a rarity. All accompanied by a nice and cheap $19.99 price tag.
  
  As I played it for the first time, I found many confusing details and systems in to what I 
 thought was going to be an effective ripe-off of Age Of Empires. The game turns out to be completely 
 different to my disliking, and in a way, seems to share it combat system with Rome: Total War.
 
  
  Although this game could appeal to some, I just think its missing something that could have made 
 it great. Thank God I kept the receipt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Burin077
Rating: 5.1
Date: May 27, 2005 4:55 pm PT
Review:  I really tried to like this game, I really did. As a fan of the previous Lords of the Realm Titles, 
 (That does include both 1 and 2, and the siege pack) I was really in belief that this new release 
 for Lords of the Realm would be one i'd remember for a long time.
  
  Well, i'm right, it will be one i'll remember, as it'll be the reason I now stopped playing Lords 
 of the Realm.
  
  Lords of the Realm III, although quite interesting with its free-style system and lack of resources 
 you needed in the previous games, this new version of the game seems more like you're playing a 
 game of Risk, and everyone takes their turn at the same time. Honestly, how does one actually do 
 that?
  
  Gameplay:
  
  I find the gameplay, although a bit more believable as there's now more than just around 1500 soldiers 
 limited to an army, though this is now a plus, you really can't control how you will organize the 
 army as well as you could in the game's predecessors.
  
  Some nice touches i'll give the game credit for, are abilities to Force Marches and to torch fields, 
 but the problem about torching fields, is why would torching fields and such matter if it won't 
 affect the country they're being razed in? The only thing it will do is lower the amount of gold 
 your country will make, but that can just be altered in other ways.
  
  This leads me into the next thing that complete drove me away, Fiefdoms and such. Where the heck 
 did attacking County Towns and Sieging Castles go? Sieging Castles now seemed really pitiful as 
 when I played the game, when I sieged a castle, the people sieging virtually always win as they 
 knock over one of your walls, or barge down your front gate, and then swamp your soldiers on the 
 castle walls.
  
  Graphics: Personally I saw nothing TOO bad with the graphics, but the fact that the game trailer 
 and intro movie seem a bit more cartoony than real time as was in LOTR2, it makes the game seem 
 as if it was truly taking a turn into the cartoony realm.
  
  Sound: Probably the best quality the game had. I did like some of the attitudes of the leaders 
 and soldiers, and the burning and crumbling of castle walls was also a nice touch.
  
  Value: Personally, this is not a game you are probably going to find much of a place for if you're 
 looking for RTS. This game will basically give you a smack in the face rather than satiate your 
 hunger for it.
  
  Overall, you're probably better getting Stronghold or Rome: Total War if you are looking for a 
 good RTS. This game just, is an embarassment to its predecessors, and a failure of a once proud 
 and valuable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevcole33
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 22, 2005 1:32 pm PT
Review:  I was eagerly anticipating this game. Like many others I loved lords2 and reloaded it after I threw 
 this abomination of a game in the garbage. 
  This is the worst game I ever purchased. That list includes the atari 2600 football game that I 
 bought in 1980 or so. (which my parents probably bought for me anyway)
  This game in no way should have been associated with Lords2 because it plays, looks, acts, resembles 
 nothing like lords2.
  it has the most boring gameplay and least intuitive interface for any game i've ever played. The 
 graphics are absolutes awful. Do Not buy this game!
  Just play total war or stronghold. This game is pointless and not worth whatever the reduced price 
 is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: var1000
Rating: 5.9
Date: Oct 18, 2004 6:29 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game with some high expectations considering it got a 8.4 from Gamespot. I found 
 this game cumbersome, boring and just a waste of time. This was a nice try, but it just does not 
 cut it. Nice graphics and some o. k. concepts, but you cannot control enough of the game. Also, 
 the battle games were lame. You start out w/ a army and you have to fight some army off in the 
 distance, or sometimes you have to take a castle or something. However, it was always really easy 
 to win and you have to really try hard to squeeze just a little bit of strategy or excitement from 
 the game. My advice is to break out your old AOK or AOE Cd's instead of buying this game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummer_1
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 29, 2004 12:35 pm PT
Review:  There is not much to say about this game but I have to keep it 120 characters long. This is by 
 far the worst RTS game I have ever played! I mean that. I did not have any fun with this at all 
 and I play alot of RTS games. I have most of them. I don't know what strange weed the game spot 
 reviewer was smoking to merit a high review like he did.
  
  The campain map-BORING! for lack of a better term it was just plain boring! The grafics were a 
 joke to start with. I couldn't figure out if I was missing some options on how to manage my kingdom 
 or not. But I wasn't. I had to put certain guys in my provinces and I couldn't choose the type 
 of troops I wanted. I couldn't make any MORE troops either I was stuck with just those. It SUCKED. 
 I couldn't do a whole lot about anyway its just how it was.
  
  The Battle map-It was boring too but it sucked in a whole different way. First thing is my troops 
 were at the whole other side of the map and it took such a long time for them to go and fight the 
 enemy army. Second thing is on seiging. I couldn't control my troops. I told them to go in the 
 enemy castle and they did. Some of them but not all. It was very bad.
  
  Bottom line-DO NOT BUY THIS GAME!!! Even with the bargain bin price. You will hate it for being 
 such crap and yourself for buying it. Go with ANY other RTS, especially Rome TW or Warhammer 40,000. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akhorahill
Rating: 6.3
Date: Sep 13, 2004 1:02 pm PT
Review:  I got excited from the very moment I heard about the development of LOR3. I am a great fan of the 
 first game, an addictive feud administration game with bad graphics but great "hot seat" multiplayer.
 
  
  I first thought that LOR3 would bring better graphics, A. I. and multiplayer options to an already 
 great game but it was no more than a bad RTS.
  
  Yep, you heard me. A bad RTS. As the game began, I was puzzled trying to find the administration 
 menu: how many peasants would I assign to crops? Should I sacrifice some cattle to improve the 
 people's health? Did I get a baby boon? Nope... none of it. I simply had to decide to what kind 
 of steward would I entrust my feuds. It's not an option, I HAD to entrust my feuds to stewards 
 so that I could focus on combat. o. O!
  
  The game fled from its own great design and fell into the RTS trap! As a RTS, LOR3 looks pale when 
 compared to fast paced strategy games such as Starcraft or Age of Mithology. It gets no higher 
 scores when faced with more world scale war games like the Total War series.
  
  I've tried to play the game but I simply can't. The game is too slow and battles are too shallow 
 to justify the focus. Religion and honor may be important on the game but I fail to find them an 
 use other than hiring better stewards.
  
  Bad choices for remaking a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Guitarplayer-
Rating: 5.1
Date: May 14, 2004 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Honestly this game bites, and man does it hurt. I've been a huge fan of the Lord of the Realms 
 series since Lords of the Realm 2 and its expansion. Both those games were superb and I WAS SO 
 ANXIOUS FOR THIS GAME TO COME OUT. 
  
  After 20 min of playing it I could tell right off it wasn't the same Lords of the Realm that I 
 played earlier and this wasn't in a good way. There are only 5 missions for the tutorial that don't 
 explain anything and they are the biggest waste of time. This version is so dull and dumbed down 
 I can't even bare to play it. You can't even choose which troops that want you to build! It also 
 takes 5 min just move your army across the map. There are far better games out there, Medievil 
 Total War for example. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: placksheep
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 3, 2004 3:24 pm PT
Review:  I suppose that given all the obstacles this game faced just to get relesed, it's wonder it's as 
 good as it is, but as a fan of Lords of the Realm II, I can't help feeling a little disappointed. 
 Don't get me wrong... LOTR III is a fun game, but it doesn't have as much strategic depth as LOTR 
 II and even with the tutorials it's a darn difficult game to learn. The first map classified as 
 "easy" took me 2.5 hours. That's probably a little longer than average, but it's no cakewalk.
 
  
  The gameplay is the saving grace of this game. It is quite underwhelming graphically (and looks 
 downright ugly during a lot of the battle sequences) . Much like many other strategy games, your 
 goal is to lay a royal smackdown on the neighboring lands. Total domination is the name of the 
 game. You accomplish your goal by assigning vassals to manage your parcels of land to either raise 
 an army, make food, or make money. The finer points of all this are left up to your vassals, supposedly 
 freeing you up to make all the 'important' decisions, but I couldn't help feeling like there was 
 not enough to do. 
  
  The previous Lords of the Realm games were turn-based, and this game has a snail-like pace to it 
 like its turn-based forbears. What ends up happening is, you're either attacking or waiting for 
 your Knights to raise armies. There are a few other managerial tasks to do (such as clicking a 
 button to upgrade a castle) but that's the meat of the game. The battle screen is the other half 
 of the game. Its layout is similar to any other real time strategy game, with terrain, a variety 
 of units, and if it's a siege, a castle. There isn't a whole lot of depth in the combat screen. 
 Units don't have a wide variety of formations, and like the Shogun games, you can only select 1 
 'company' or squadron of units, not individuals. That would be fine, but the units don't behave 
 in a very realistic fashion. When ordered to scale a castle wall, companies of units all bunch 
 up to get on the same 2 ladders. Almost always... no wait, ALWAYS, I find myself allowing the computer 
 to control the battle, because controlling the battles aren't that much fun and don't seem to affect 
 the outcome. It doesn't help that when the battles begin, and you switch to the traditional RTS-style 
 view, your units are VERY far away from the enemy units. It literally takes 1-1.5 minutes REAL-TIME 
 just for the two armies to meet each other on the battle-field.
  
  For all the complaining, there is an addictive quality to this game. The strategy lies in managing 
 which armies go where, not the makeup of those armies. You don't have any direct control over what 
 type of units can be raised by your knights, but you can choose the knights with the units that 
 best augment the ones you have already. 
  
  The AI is also quite competent, making for epic conflicts for control of land. If you're not careful, 
 while you're attacking one county, another house could be laying the smack down on your farms and 
 defenseless churches. It's essential to get a perfect balance of attacking forces and homeland 
 security. The addictive gameplay is what makes this game a good game instead of a kinda crappy 
 game.
  
  The graphics are really a low point. The level of geometric detail is low on all of the models 
 of the units. This is expected in a game that has hundreds of units onscreen, but you won't believe 
 for a second that the crazy-looking brown thing you're looking at is a horse. Nothing moves realistically, 
 or looks that good... everything is blocky. And it's not as if the blockiness is hidden by a certain 
 style (like in Warcraft III) . The models just look like my 7 year old brother made them. The terrain 
 and castles on the other hand look great. The strategic view of the game is also in 3d, and looks 
 good, but not impressive at all.
  
  The sound and music in the game sound good, with a variety of synth music and sound effects. The 
 music is pretty standard fare, and sounds like any other game, but its gothic/ churchy flair fits 
 the game nicely. There isn't much to say for sound in games... it's either bad, excellent, or middle 
 of the road. This game is middle of the road. Nothing stands out to me.
  
  Well if you're still reading, here's my conclusion:
  
  LOTR III is a decent game, and for the 
 value-price of 19.99 retail, it might be worth picking up if you're a fan of medieval combat, or 
 the previous Lords of the Realm games. If you're not too into long involved strategy games, you 
 might want to avoid the urge to buy. There are definitely better games out there.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Katiff
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 31, 2004 4:20 am PT
Review:  Its not a bad game, its decent i guess but the thing that bothers me i only got it cause i used 
 to play Lord of the Realm 2 back in the day and man that game was a lot of fun, it had to be the 
 most challenging Strategy game ever. The music and the game play was awesome. 
  
  This game shouldnt be called Lords of the Realm 3, it has hardly anything at all in common with 
 Lords of the Realm 2. I was hoping for major similarities with improved graphics and challenge, 
 What i found was something completly different. In part 2 you were responsible for mananging each 
 County, creating and equiping your armies, handling random events like the plague, live stock deaths, 
 farm flooding etc....
  
  On top of that each county had industries you could manage. Blacksmiths you could choose which 
 weapon for them to make, Forestry, Mining for metal and stone. You could build a castle in each 
 county too and setup your own custom games. 
  
  I am somewhat disapointed with this game because it could have been much better, i hate when companies 
 sell out the thing that made their game great and replace it with other concepts to try and copy 
 other games when the ONLY reason i bought the game was because i wanted to play it for what it 
 was not what it has become. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cutface
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 30, 2004 4:29 pm PT
Review:  This game, even at it's bargain price (24.99$ canadian) feels like you're getting ripped off. There 
 are numorous glitches and bugs, (like when units want to climb a wall or go in a siege tower, they 
 all get squashed together) some units go half way through walls. The gameplay is repetitive and 
 your asking yourself many times why you're playing a game like this when there are many fun RTS 
 games out there (Command and conquer generals, Warcraft 3, even the new Lord of the rings game) . 
 Although the game does have it's moments, i don't recommend this game to those who arent in love 
 with the RTS genre. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
