-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Lords of the Realm II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/lordsoftherealm2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  7, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 7.5, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 505 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Impressions Games
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Oct 31, 1996

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Middle Ages were tough times and similarly, Lords of the Realm II is a tough game. 

 Forget about chivalrous kings and courtly honor: The Middle Ages sucked. If you didn't come down 
 with a severe case of the Black Death in those days, then your poor, starving, plague-ridden village 
 was being ransacked by some neighboring tyrant. Sierra tries to capture the bleak reality of the 
 bloody feudal struggles during these so-called "dark ages" in their recent turn-based/real-time 
 strategy title Lords of the Realm II. Devout fans of strategy greats hoped that this would combine 
 the best of both Warcraft II and Civilization II, and while it falls just short of being that ultimate 
 game, Lords II still provides a challenging and entertaining experience for strategy enthusiasts. 
 And challenging it is: The Middle Ages were tough times and similarly, Lords of the Realm II is 
 a tough game.  

 The premise of Lords of the Realm II: The king has been axed, and you, along with other feudal lords, 
 are vying to capture neighboring fiefdoms and gain rule over the land. The majority of the game 
 takes place in a three-quarter perspective (like Civilization II) , showing your village, surrounding 
 industries (like mining, weapons production, woodcutting, and agriculture) , and traders, who travel 
 in and out of your territory periodically. The first part of a typical campaign is normally spent 
 carefully managing agricultural resources and adjusting tax rates to foster more peasant growth 
 and build up a decent economy. After a few seasons (each turn advances you a season) when industrial 
 growth becomes more of a concern, you can simply adjust a slider that controls your farming vs. 
 industry priority. This all sounds pretty straightforward in ink (or electrons, whatever) , 
 but your peasants are fairly temperamental. They get ticked off by things like slight tax increases, 
 food shortages, over-conscripting, and being overworked. A "happiness" figure located on the toolbar 
 indicates the status of your village, and if your villagers aren't feeling hunky-dory about the 
 way you're governing, they'll revolt at the drop of a hat.   

 Once you have a decent number of (happy) peasants, you can start conscripting them to build up armies. 
 Different soldier classes - peasants, knights, archers, pikemen, and mercenaries - all become available 
 depending on the storehouse of weapons you possess. At some point, you have to deal with the other 
 power-hungry lords. These guys are real cocky bastards, and their continual, snotty provocations 
 just make you want to "get medieval" on them all the more. Guide your troops over to meet an opposing 
 lord's army or allow him to try to attack a garrisoned castle, and the screen automatically switches 
 to real-time combat mode. Music gets a little more dramatic and, as happens in Warcraft, you select 
 troops, point and click on enemies, and the chain mail flies. If you're defending a castle, you 
 can be really cruel, dumping sizzling oil on enemies and perforating them with arrows while they 
 try to break through your castle walls with siege towers, catapults, and battering rams.   

 I'll have to admit, it's pretty exciting to defend a besieged castle. But on the whole, the real-time 
 combat in Lords of the Realm II could have been improved greatly. Your men are frustratingly difficult 
 to maneuver, stumbling around at times as though they'd just had a frontal lobotomy. Also, just 
 like a field of pre-adolescent soccer players, the combat field gets a little too crowded too easily. 
   

 Although the economic model of Lords I has been simplified to incorporate these action elements, 
 it still adds a new spin to and makes more challenging a title which, for the most part, would 
 have just been a resource management game. Some die-hard war strategy gamers may find that the 
 new style of Lords II is too compromising and that the game spreads itself thin by trying to accomplish 
 too much. But if you're looking for a new Civ-style strategy game that adds a new dimension to 
 its gameplay, you may want to give Lords of the Realm II a try.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Lords of the Realm 2 is an age old classic from 1996, and even today it's still great fun. Lords 
 2 combines a challenging economic system with some simple, but effective combat to make a great 
 package that strategy gamers should definitely try (If you can find a copy...) .
  
  In Lords 2, you are one of several lords vying for control of the entire kingdom, be it England, 
 France, Germany, China, Italy, the whole of Europe, or even some imaginary realm. It'll be a tough 
 trek to reach the throne though, for Lords 2 will put innumerable challenges in front of you during 
 the course of a single game, both in single and multiplayer. You will have to train your armies 
 using a varied amount of troops and siege enemy castles, take enemy towns, bring down rebels, keep 
 your own peasants in line, build your own castles, etc.
  
  The regional map is where you'll always start in Lords 2. In a basic game, you'll always start 
 with one territory, and must quickly expand to other regions if your going to compete with the 
 other lords. On the regional map, you control troop movement, siege preparations, army creation, 
 and your own towns and castles. While there actually isn't that much to keep track of in the economic 
 system, this system can become amazingly complex with all of the variables that must be brought 
 into focus. Lose track of even just a few of these, and you'll quickly start running out of food 
 or just plain making the peasants unhappy. This is what makes the economic system so addicting, 
 in that you may eventually have to lose an arm and a leg to keep those peasants in line.
  
  Lords 2's combat system isn't nearly as complex, but its still effective. The game allows you to 
 train units of peasants, knights, swordsmen, archers, pikemen, and more. Skilled manuevering of 
 your troops can be frusterating since the game suffers from some lackluster pathfinding and no 
 formation settings, but these are minor issues. Skilled manuevering can be well rewarded however 
 if you position yourself in tandem with the environment to give yourself the advantage. Sieges 
 are also very intense while both attacking and defending, as you desperatly keep track of your 
 walls and flag, or try to take that flag!
  
  This is all challenging in single player thanks to a ruthless AI. In combat, the AI will take a 
 defensive position when its clearly out-powered, but will charge you from multiple directions when 
 its confident and you haven't positioned yourself strategically. The AI will also train massive 
 armies of its own on the regional map, and seems to do a good job of keeping its peasants in line. 
 The castles and types of units they tend to prefer also depends upon what character the AI is controlling, 
 so the AI is personified in a way as well. Its a good thing the AI is as good as it is, for Lords 
 2's main fault is its multiplayer, which suffers from many design issues that can result in crashes 
 to the desktop. So Lords 2 is at its best in its single player.
  
  Graphically, yeah yeah, Lords 2 essentially has stone age graphics. But its 2D graphics are fresh, 
 smooth, and still look decent enough. Sound wise, the game has some excellent, if repetitive battle 
 sounds, and some good voice acting all around.
  
  Ultimately, Lords 2 is a game that strategy gamers owe themselves to try. Sure, it might as well 
 be from the stone age, but that doesn't mean its not fun to play.
  
  Pros: Well-made economic system that is more complex than it looks. Simple, but effective combat. 
 Supurb AI.
  
  Cons: Multiplayer suffers from some game-crippling design issues.
  
  Recommendable for: Strategy gamers shouldn't miss this jewel from 1996. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KTIC
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 7, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  Lords of the Realm 2 was actually the first game that I ever owned and it set the bar for all games 
 to follow. And for me, it set the bar pretty high. There are points today where I still get cravings 
 to load it up and pound the snot out of the arrogant prick known as the knight, or the snooty countess, 
 the soft-spoken but faith crazy bishop or the patronizing baron. The gameplay is a mix of turn-based 
 and real-time strategy. Powerful battlefield strategies are useless if you can't keep your serfs 
 happy, reproducing and working hard to keep your economy buzzing. Economics revolves around 5 key 
 resources: wood, iron, stone, cattle and grain. Iron is required to build most weapons, weapons 
 and castles both require wood and castles require stone. Serfs eat cattle, dairy from cattle and 
 grain and you in turn tax the serfs, order them to work to produce resources and conscript to form 
 your armies. as stated, taxes provide the bulk of your income but goods can also be bought and 
 sold fom travelling merchants. The game year is divided into the four seasons with each turn changing 
 seasons. armies are given a specific number of move points and castles can be garrisoned to defend 
 against enemy invasion. So that's pretty much it for gameplay. The graphics are cutting edge for 
 the time and the sound is immersive and rich. These days, the value is unbeatable. You just can't 
 find a game that mixes all these elements so well for a better price. Grab a copy and even after 
 you've played a hundred times, every now and then you'll still get that twitching desire to return 
 to the middle ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arch-Villain
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  Lords of the Realm II was Impressions Studios follow up to the original 1994 medieval strategy 
 game, Lords of the Realm. Without the Lords of the Realm series, it is quite possible that turn 
 based strategy games would have never made it out of the early 90s. Its hard to describe a game 
 that gets just about everything right, and as I look back and remember my days and nights wasted 
 playing Lords 2, I really cant think of a game that has pulled me in and entertained me as much 
 since.
  
  The game simulates, with great care taken to follow historical accuracy, the bloody campaign and 
 sieges of middle ages. From the opening movie, we learn that the king is dead without a successor, 
 and now the strongest nobles of England are preparing to battle for the crown.
  
  You assume the role of one of these nobles, and battle through a custom created game or through 
 the games campaign. The main map is richly detailed for its time (remember; this is 1996!) and 
 it is often hard to believe the game only utilizes 256 colors. The music, sounds, video, and voice 
 over effects in the game are all very well done and give the game a very authentic look and feel. 
 Turns are spent planting grain, raising cows, mining stone and iron, harvesting lumber, making 
 weapons, and building castles. Each game turn represents 1 season, and great care must be taken 
 in planning your farming activities as weather does play a big role in Lords 2. Battles take place 
 in real time, and are seen through a top-down view and work much like Warcraft II.
  
  Castles are very important in your struggle for the crown. Without these strong, defensive structures, 
 enemy armies can capture your county towns with ease. Even a simple wooden palisade will delay 
 the troops of another lord, at least for awhile. As the game progresses however, you will want 
 to work your way towards building stone and royal castles to ensure survival.
  
  Even though the game features multiplayer support, you will get just as much enjoyment out the 
 game by playing against the computer. Your opposition comes in the form of four different AI personalities, 
 each with their strengths and weaknesses: The Knight favors aggressive tactics, often starving 
 his own population to arm his troops. Hes a cross between Prince Charles and Orlando Bloom. Eeew
 
  
  The Baron relies on a very slow and methodical build up to establish his resources before entering 
 into the battle field. If you want his help, its going to cost you.
  
  The Countess uses diplomacy as a ruse until she finds a weak spot in her opponents defenses. Never 
 trust her.
  
  The Bishop, easily the hardest and most competent of the AI players, makes very large armies and 
 will only attack another player if he is currently leading. He will also never help you if you 
 are allied with him and in need of assistance. Jerk.
  
  Each AI personality is portrayed by a professional voice actor. The fact that the computer can 
 make and break alliances, insult, and threaten you is a very nice added touch. If you want to have 
 some real fun, send the Knight a few insults and watch the fireworks fly!
  
  The only bad thing about Lords of the Realm II is that it is OLD. You are more than likely going 
 to have trouble finding a copy, and when you do, chances are that you will have compatibility issues. 
 But no game to date, not even Stronghold, can take the crown from Lords 2 as the most complete 
 and historically accurate Medieval Warfare game of all time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlueAtlas
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 14, 2006 12:29 am PT
Review:  This game is not that bad. The graphics for this game were not that bad during its time. The game 
 has decent gameplay you'd expect out of an RTS but this game may fall short when trying to impress 
 some RTS junkies. The game offers less than ten types of units in the game but makes up for it 
 by the good amount of AI players and a ton of maps to play on. This game can be really tough at 
 times especially when playing on huge maps, so it is always nice to join forces with an AI player 
 first and then stabbing them in the back. It does take strategy to beat this game instead of just 
 having a massive army. For example putting your Pikemen against a unit of crossbowmen isn't such 
 a good idea. Maintaining an army is only half the story in this game as well. The player must pay 
 attention to his/her economy or else your sovreign states will rebel against you causing loss of 
 valuable resources. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: essereetico
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  THIS IS ONE OF THE FEW GAMES THAT CAN GIVE YOU EMOTIONS IF YOU LIKE MEDIEVAL TIMES, it's great 
 music , voice and fun gameplay, nice battles are really good. Also if it's of 10 years ago try 
 this game and try not to focuse on the dated graphic that can look silly and bad today, but at 
 its time this game was a mestaerpiece and still today is worth to be tried out.
  AND IT'S CRAZY THAT LORDS OF THE REALM 3 WAS RATED MORE THAN THIS BEAUTIFUL GAME. I wrote a review 
 on LOTR3 too if you interested go to read. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 21, 2006 8:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is the one that started me on to medieval games. I believe this was a turn based game 
 also. I haven't played this in many years. I can remember the first time I tried this game I was 
 lost. It took me a couple days to actually get the hang of it. One of the hardest games I've played, 
 but after I learned how I mastered the game and cleared it with the most hardest difficulty you 
 can have. I tell you man... what a hard game!! Very time consuming! Having to balance the food/military. 
 The graphics at the time weren't that impressive either, but the fun factor after learning it was 
 great! I loved sending custom messages that would raise their eyebrows, and hate me, but of coarse 
 as soon as I send them I would conquer their land just to be some sort of tyrant in a way. Lol. 
 Get this game for old classic case! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maegnas
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2006 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Impressive game for its time, I believe that it really opened the door for medieval strategy games 
 to enter. It really took the whole sense of doing more than one thing at once and perfected it, 
 not only do you have to worry about your people and your land, you have to worry about your kingdom, 
 and exactly what all your people are doing, assigning people to do certain jobs, you have to keep 
 your people happy and healthy, this game is more than just a push over. It is a great game and 
 I believe that it opened the door to other great games of its type. Great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: excaliburblade
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 11, 2005 8:28 am PT
Review:  Lords of the Realm II is one of the better story lined turned based strategy games. This game is 
 only one of the few games that I have seen which actually implies strategy over troop quantity 
 to decide a victory situation. 
  Lords of the Realm II is truly an in depth look at the life of a fuedal lord in the middle ages. 
 Peasant life, Serfdom, Conscription, Taxes, Wages, Treasury Management and Warfare (Yeah, I'm a 
 history major) . It is the total package. The troop constription affects your county's happiness 
 and hence your peasants. If your people are not happy, you will not have a land to rule and they 
 will revolt against you. You must then CRUSH the rebellion and then resubjegate the rebellious 
 serfs.
  Strategy wise, the game employs terrain, troop number, the discipline (weapon type) of the troops, 
 the position you place the troops, troop speed and armor classification for each individual troop 
 type. The troop battle screen is broken in to troop units consisting of men determinded by the 
 total group of troops. Being this is the middle ages and troop communication is limited by flags 
 and banners. The minimum troop number at the formation of an army is 50 men while the largest combined 
 army totals 1500. Mercinaries roam the counties and at times you may be able to purchase their 
 services. Because of heritage rivalry issues amongst the different mercinaries you may only have 
 one group of mercinaries per army. 
  The Greater Nobles, who own their own land, are the Bishop, the Baron, The Countess, and the Knight. 
 They will wage war against you for the crown. You have the choice of diplomancy and you may send 
 compliments, insults, gifts or request an alliance and if they accept you have additional alliance 
 options. The A. I. is not always hard, but they are all backstabbing. Keep in mind it doesnt matter 
 what you have typed, you can send a blank piece of paper the computer only responds to the genre 
 of letter. 
  Lords of the Realm II truly is the best of the series. It is not as hard to keep up with every 
 single part of game play as Lords of the Realm III. It truly is a great war for the crown - good 
 luck in your attempt to claim the throne.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aberdeen5
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 2, 2005 3:15 am PT
Review:  Lords of the Realm II has to be one of my favorite PC games, its a timeless classic that I have 
 been playing for 6+ years. It was an my first PC and is now on my newest PC but I can't find a 
 reason to stop playing. Once you get the hang of it you can get lost for hours at a time and wonder 
 why you waste your time on the newer strategy games when you can have so much fun with a simple 
 classic. But don't get me wrong, this is a hard complicated game that involves strategy, timing, 
 and pure skill. Lords of the Realm II is a game that you MUST check out.. trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkBelthasar
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 15, 2005 12:30 am PT
Review:  Lords of the Realm II is an amazing game for how old it is in reference to the constant advancement 
 of computers. I still play this wonderful game, single player, as well as multiplayer. 
  
  The gameplay is great. You play the role of the leader of a county at the beginning of each game. 
 You go through the four seasons of the year choosing things for your people to be doing. Once you're 
 finished for that season, you just press a button and the season will change. If you are a strat/sim 
 person, you'll love this game. You must guide your counties by assigning the people jobs, helping 
 them through droughts and plagues, building castles, and of course building armies and taking over 
 the world. Even the computer players are difficult to beat in this game, unlike some old battle 
 games. Multiplayer is also a great option as you can have up to five players playing simultaneously. 
 And it's truly a strategy as there are some many different choices to make often in the game that 
 will make a large difference. 
  
  The graphics are great. There are plenty of 3D cutscenes throughout the game that are done wonderfully 
 for this time period. While battling, each group of 16 or 32 people will be designated by one person 
 on the screen. It would be difficult to show two armies of 1500 knights on a battlefield so this 
 works well. The look of the game almost looks like you're playing a board game but it's way to 
 complex and good of game for that to be true.
  
  There are plenty of music and sound effects, nothing spectacular, but it is very Medieval. The 
 songs are long and neat, and nearly everything in battles and on the main screen have a corresponding 
 sound effect. Additionally, each of the computer players have their own unique voice that has voiceovers 
 for the game. 
  
  The replay value is high. If you like this game, it'll be one of those that you pull from your 
 attic in ten years just to play again. There's nothing discouraging about this game and there are 
 so many maps and plenty of modes, every game will be extremely different. This game is worth a 
 look, I guarantee it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 28, 2005 9:39 pm PT
Review:  The game is quite old, so obviously everything is quite bad compared to today. The game is still 
 playable even with bad graphics, and that's about all that can be said in it's defence. 
  
  The gameplay is what keeps me coming back. The gameplay is quite simplistic, you must destroy your 
 opponent by taking away all of their land. To do this you must raise men, and provide weapons for 
 them. To do that, you must make a well run country to make your population grow. You must distribute 
 the labor between farming, growing cattle, and various other tasks depending on what your current 
 country offers. You can also build/upgrade a castle in each country for better defense. 
  
  The other part of Lords of the Realm II is the battle screens in which you fight an opposing army, 
 or siege a castle. When sieging a castle you can build up various siege weapons to help in your 
 attack, like the catapult which can destroy the opponents walls. A little strategy is involved, 
 but mostly it's better units in numbers wins. 
  
  Lords of the Realm II is turnbased, but since your opponents move at the same time you do, it plays 
 quite fast. Lords of the Realm II is a great game and alot of fun. It's still fun to sit back and 
 play this game every once in a while, though this game plays a little too fast on newer computers. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
