-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Lost Planet: Extreme Condition
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/lostplanet/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Stunning environments and creature designs.
 Enjoyable boss encounters.
 Firefights against enormous bugs are fun and exhilarating.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Broken netcode may or may not let you into a multiplayer game.
 Various technical and porting issues get in the way of the enjoyment.
 Short single-player campaign is relatively easy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 28, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.7, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 1,907 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Capcom
Genre: Sci-Fi Shooter
Date:     Jun 26, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Lost Planet's strong single-player campaign stands out, in spite of buggy online functionality and 
 other missteps. 

  Capcom has opted to bring Lost Planet: Extreme Condition, its exciting Xbox 360 shooter, to the 
 PC, complete with DX10 support. But all is not well with this port. Right off the bat, you'll detect 
 signs of platform translation. The pop-up tutorials all refer to the Xbox 360 controller, leaving 
 equivalent keyboard commands completely out of the equation -- and if you're a keyboard jockey, the 
 correspondingly awkward menu navigation will be the first thing you notice. You may also observe 
 another major annoyance: Lost Planet requires you to be connected to the Internet via Valve Software's 
 Steam client just to play the single-player game. Losing your connection during gameplay will cause 
 the game client to quit, and since there are no midmission saves, you'll have to replay the entire 
 mission from the beginning. Without the connection, the game can't start, and at press time, will 
 not start even if Steam is in offline mode.  

           Should've brought a can of Raid.      

  These are simple but exasperating blunders, 
 but if you can overlook them, you'll find that Lost Planet's single-player campaign features a 
 lot of cool action with larger-than-life shooting sequences. Furthermore, it's all capped with 
 stunning visuals that surpass those of its console counterpart. Make no mistake: This is a beautiful 
 game. You trudge through drift after drift of gleaming white snow, fending off towering insects 
 in memorable scenes that will make your heart pound. The high dynamic range lighting is particularly 
 stunning, and the game makes good use of it both in indoor caverns and wintry fields. It's also 
 been touted as one of the first DirectX 10 titles, though running it in DX10 mode didn't yield 
 any noticeable quality or performance differences. Either way, be prepared to turn down visual 
 settings, as you need a beefy rig to run the game, let alone see it in all its frigid glory.  

 
  In Lost Planet you play as former snow pirate Wayne on planet E. D. N. III, a frozen wasteland teeming 
 with buglike creatures called the Akrid. Wayne and his colleagues, including his own father, are 
 attacked by a monstrous Akrid called Green Eye. After the assault, Wayne believes his father was 
 killed in the incident, and the story plays out initially as a revenge tale. As the narrative progresses, 
 however, it gets more and more convoluted as characters are introduced and the plot swerves out 
 of control.  

  As you can imagine, you'll spend a lot of time in the frozen tundra, though you'll explore plenty 
 of indoor arenas as well. As on the Xbox 360, you control Wayne from a third-person perspective, 
 though you can zoom in to a closer view, or even use a limited first-person perspective if you 
 like. Unlike the 360 version, however, the aiming reticle stays fixed in the center of the screen. 
 It makes the PC controls feel less cumbersome, if a bit less original. They work just fine with 
 a mouse and keyboard, though you can plug in a gamepad and play that way if you prefer. But even 
 with its more traditional targeting scheme, Lost Planet moves at a measured pace. Wayne doesn't 
 run all that quickly, and lumbering through heaps of snow slows him down even further.  

  You'll be spending a lot of time shooting bugs. Some of them flutter around and are nothing more 
 than an annoyance. Others rise toward the heavens, swiping at you with pincers the size of snowplows. 
 These are the moments where the game excels. The Akrid look and sound horrific and intimidating, 
 and getting sideswiped will send you flying backward and underneath the drifts, causing plenty 
 of confusion as you try to stand up and get your bearings. Granted, some of these assaults can 
 be exasperating when you fall victim to a succession of attacks that make it almost impossible 
 to escape unscathed, but it simply lends gravity to your struggles with these disgusting monstrosities. 

  That isn't to say that Lost Planet is hard, mostly due to Wayne's ability to collect thermal energy, 
 or T-Gen. T-Gen is found throughout the game in glowing puddles left behind by fallen Akrid, or 
 even within entire towers filled with the stuff. Your energy level drops continuously as you play, 
 so you need to keep replenishing it lest you drop dead. When you take damage, T-Gen is used to 
 restore your health -- and since there's so much of it to be had, it's not often you need to worry 
 about death. Some of the menacing bosses may take you to task, and these encounters are a lot of 
 fun. They don't present much of a challenge though, as long as you quickly learn their patterns. 
 On top of that, every Akrid has an obvious weak spot, identified by the glowing energy within. 
 Target that spot and be mindful of the boss' movement, and you'll be fine in most cases.  

  You also get a grappling hook to play around with, which makes it easy to get to higher places 
 and is occasionally used in some simple platforming sequences. It's a nice idea but underused, 
 and you'll spend most of your time shooting guns and piloting hulking mechs called vital suits. 
 Piloting a VS is pretty simple, and there are a few different types. Some of them can jump to decent 
 heights; another can transform into a drill for bulldozing over enemies. But whether you're on 
 foot or in a VS, there's a nice selection of weapons, from your standard assault SMG to laser weapons, 
 and they all feel weighty and produce plenty of clatter and screen-filling explosions.  

  Yet you won't be spending all your time dealing with frostbite and overgrown cockroaches. Wayne 
 gets plenty of harassment from human and mechanical foes too, indoors as well as out. Snow pirates 
 aren't as interesting as the Akrid; they will often just stand there and let you shoot them without 
 exhibiting many signs of life. Occasionally they'll try to tumble away or take cover, but for the 
 most part, they're bullet fodder. VSs are harder to take down, but you'll often have your own VS 
 to pilot, though a plasma rifle and a few grenades will turn them into scrap heaps in no time flat. 

           It's easier to destroy this giant grasshopper than it is to connect to a multiplayer match. 

  Lost Planet is relatively short, with each of its 11 missions taking between 30 and 45 minutes 
 to complete, depending on whether you rush through to take on the boss at the end of each level. 
 In theory, the multiplayer should help extend its life, though at this point, it's unclear if online 
 multiplayer is even functioning properly. Prerelease online test sessions resulted in multiple 
 disconnects, and a day after release, attempts to both host and join multiplayer sessions on multiple 
 connections have never resulted in finding opponents. Local network play has at least been successful. 
 The initial eight maps included with the 360 version are included -- though, inexplicably, subsequent 
 maps available for free download on the Xbox 360 are nowhere to be found here. Should you find 
 a match, you'll find the maps to be large and detailed. There's standard deathmatch and team deathmatch, 
 as well as a Battlefield-type game called post grab, and fugitive mode, which pits all players 
 against a single defender. But it appears that online multiplayer is broken for many, and the issue 
 is widespread.  

  It's a testament to strong game design that even with numerous technical and porting issues, Lost 
 Planet's single-player campaign makes it still worth taking a look. But as visually dazzling as 
 it is, the PC version can't quite reach the heights of its console counterpart, thanks to inexplicable 
 design decisions and broken online play. It's too bad these issues weren't ironed out prior to 
 release, but if you can look past them, you're bound to get a lot of enjoyment from shooting down 
 colossal creepy-crawlies.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (89 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: LonnieMitchell
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 30, 2009 5:41 am PT
Review:  This game was one I played as a distraction. It started off rather "okay", but I must admit that 
 it started to grow on me before long. You play a young man who has lost his memory and is found 
 by 3 snow pirates who are fighting against the established ruling power of this icy planet. You 
 begin to take on missions with them by piloting a mech unit which you seem to be able to remember 
 how to do, despite the fact that you can't recall your own name or anything about your past. The 
 game slowly opens up glimpses of your past and in time you begin to uncover your past, and find 
 out what the strange devise on your arm is all about. You end up fighting the same fight that your 
 long dead father also fought and you are able to triumph where he could not. All in all, it turns 
 out to be a pretty interesting game and I would suggest it for anybody looking for something to 
 fill their time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chuck5631
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 23, 2009 5:13 am PT
Review:  I will never buy a product using steam again. I started installing this game around noon it had 
 to download an update to the steam program before it started to install the game. It was still 
 updating when I shut the computer off to get some sleep around 10:00PM. I tried to start the game 
 in the morning and started the updates from 0%!! Steam will not let me run the game without the 
 update. This is the only company that has done this to me. I recommend you never buy a steam product. 
 
  
  I hate Steam. I hate Steam. I hate Steam. I hate Steam. I hate Steam. I hate Steam. I hate Steam. 
 I hate S I hate Steam. I hate Steam. I hate Steam. I hate Steam. I hate Steam. I hate Steam. I 
 hate Steam. I hate Steam. I hate Steam. I hate Steam. I hate Steam. I hate Steam. I hate Steam. 
 I hate Steam. I hate Steam. I hate Steam. I hate Steam. I hate Steam. I hate Steam. I hate S I 
 hate Steam. I hate Steam. I hate Steam. I hate Steam. I hate Steam. I hate Steam. I hate Steam. 
 I hate Steam. I hate Steam. I hate Steam. I hate Steam. I hate Steam. I hate Steam. I hate Steam. 
 I hate Steam. I hate Steam. I hate Steam. I hate Steam. I hate Steam. I hate S I hate Steam. I 
 hate Steam. I hate Steam. I hate Steam. I hate Steam. I hate Steam. I hate Steam. I hate Steam. 
 I hate Steam. I hate Steam. I hate Steam. I hate Steam.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pk86
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 5:10 pm PT
Review:  When I bought this game it was for two reasons: Great graphics, giant monsters. I got what I wanted, 
 but I realized it wasn't good at all.
  In spite of it's stunning effects, Lost Planet doesn't catch your attention even for a sec. The 
 gameplay is highly repetitive and nothing that you haven't played before. The storyline is totally 
 disappointing. Capcom really messed it up with this game. I expected a dynamic game as devil may 
 cry, but I got a boring slow experience game. But I have to admit it has very good graphics.
  The multiplayer mode it's really bugged. Lots of errors and boring games ends with a recipe for 
 an awful game.
  Anyway, I have to admit that, different from almost every game from nowadays, this one brings a 
 lot of difficult levels and bosses. 
  Well after beating this game I sold it and bought Dead Space. I highly recommend it and will be 
 reviewing it soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loki_rj
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 11, 2009 9:09 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about Lost Planet: Extreme Condition, I expected to find a solid 3rd person 
 shooter with a good storyline similar to 'Starship Troopers'. From the videos I saw, this was a 
 single guy shooting the hell out of aliens that were really hard to kill unless you found their 
 'right spot' (not the one you're thinking about) . So, I guessed he was a commando or some sort 
 of agent for the 'army' or something like that. Something that would make his mission more serious 
 and down to earth.
  
  Well, forget it...
  
  The guy (Wayne... Lovely name for a Japanese man) actually did work for an 'army' of sorts, but 
 as you play, he's working for colorful pirates (complete with a cute female sidekick that suspects 
 you at first but ends up falling for you, and a short guy who's really smart, really weird and 
 with strange clothes) . The story, potentially great once you consider this is talking about humans 
 and their struggle to colonize an alien-infested planet, is dumbed down to the point you'll watch 
 each cutscene wondering just which clich will be used next. The bad guy turned good after being 
 captured by you? The woman that fights you then ends up sacrificing her life for you? Or is it 
 your want for revenge against big ugly corporate machine that killed your dad?
  
  And how, I say, will you achieve such noble goals in your ultimate quest to save the world? By 
 shooting the hell out of everything that moves before you. And the ones that don't move, also... 
 And from there follows the entire gameplay of Lost Planet. Pick up a gun (from the machine gun 
 you start with to shotguns and missile launchers, most available early in the game) and shoot everything. 
 Hit a frozen car three times and it blows up, giving you much needed thermal energy if you're going 
 to survive the harsh eternal winter. Fire quickly into enemies while getting out of their way, 
 and when the enemy is just too strong, just hop unto a mech suit and blast the hell out of everyone. 
 And that's it. For eleven missions your most difficult assignments are shooting glowing yellow 
 alien parts and jumping up mountain sides. Sure, mech fights can give you some trouble, but hey, 
 just fly around the battlefield picking up conveniently-spread weapons and ammo to blow everything 
 up, and if they destroy your VS suit, well odds are there'll be an empty one near it.
  
  The entire game follows the same formula, both in plot and gameplay. There's not an ounce of originality 
 in the entire playing time. Characters are only noticeable by how anime-like they are. The graphs 
 are nice enough and it's fun to blow things up, but Lost Planet never offers you anything new. 
 You'll feel like you're playing old Megaman. On my Saturn, it was fun, the platform like experience 
 of blowing enemies up one by one on linear scenarios. For the PC, PS3 or XBOX360 (again: When you 
 put a game for release on the PC, the least you could do is convert the tutorial from XBOX controls) , 
 this formula simply isn't enough. It's so shallow, so predictable, the way each character behaves 
 and the objectives the game throws at you, that it baffles me to think of how this game spearheaded 
 the next gen console releases. It offers nothing in gameplay, it offers nothing in terms of plot, 
 it offers nothing in terms of graphs (don't get me started on the painful voice-acting) . It rips 
 so many different games off that in the end it looks like a mixed puzzle, with pieces from different 
 wholes.
  
  There's simply nothing Lost Planet offers that other games haven't already done with much better 
 quality. Still want to play it? Fine: rent or borrow it (I did) . There's nothing that makes you 
 want to go back to this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: z827
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 6:34 am PT
Review:  It holds a decent mixture of sci-fi mech battles and a infantry but lacks unique substance. If you 
 played plenty of mech and shooters you'll find the almost-the-same elements in the game. There is 
 also a some what lack of weapons. However, the game have some pretty decent graphics and there is 
 some unique features to it. Such as the Thermal Energy function which adds to the difficulty yet 
 can add to the edge of the game at the same time. For when it reaches 0, your health will start to 
 decline slowly, but if you have a great stock of it, you can control VRs (The general name of mechs 
 for this game) Use energy weapons, heal your life when it is reduced. The physics aren't bad either 
 though their fixed, which means you aren't like a ragdoll when blown and all. You'll see the same 
 falling patterns every now and then. One more unique feature is the anchor, though for some games 
 like Tenchu, it may seem unoriginal but you can do lots of things with this anchor. You can hang 
 from the ceiling and start shooting every one below, zoom towards the enemy (Only for some enemies) 
 and give them either a grenade in the face or a few shots from your gun. As for hardcore mech players, you 
 will be annoyed that the mechs are some what fixed to the ground. For certain mechs, yes, they can 
 hover, but only for a momeny or two. And no swords for your mechs as well (some mech games have really 
 good looking melee weapons don't they.) The flaws for the infantry side is, you can't grapple with 
 a anchor when falling, so if your looking forward to *jump and anchor*, sorry to burst your bubble. However 
 the good side is, you can remove certain weapons from the mech and use them as a infantry. This is 
 a very useful feature. For example, when your mech is at the edge of destruction and the enemy mech 
 is still healthy and well, simply abort your mech, pluck the mech-weapon from it and start blasting 
 the offender. Back to the mechs, mech have only two weapons at their arsenal, you can't bust off the 
 leg of a mech or something. You also can't kill the rider even if he is exposed, the most that would 
 happen is him falling off his seat. However that allows you to hijack the mech and use it against 
 him, if you reach it in time that is. Back to infantry, infantries have a couple of grenades at their 
 arsenal. Though they can only carry two weapons and a type of grenade at the same time. There is 
 a hand grenade which have no special attributes. Plasma grenades which have incredible damage, gum 
 grenades that stick on the enemy more effectively than a bubble gum, disc grenades which you can 
 throw like a frisbee, only that it stabs into the enemy and blows him into smithereens. And the exclusive 
 dummy grenade to the multiplayer function. It will simply be a grenade that looks like a player 
 though it's quite pointless. Players ought to know that they should keep their range from the enemy 
 and there are no melee weapons to speak of. There are also a few bugs in this game. Has great potential 
 but slightly messed up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strigidae
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 14, 2008 3:08 am PT
Review:  I remember when I first played this game back in 07. A friend of mine gave me the game. He gave 
 it a bad review and further added that he wanted nothing to do with it anymore.
  
  So you can imagine after putting it under my 'to do list' for months, I didn't expect anything 
 spectacular from this game. When I did give it a shot however, I was amazed and captivated not 
 only by the game itself but also the storyline. It is one of those games that make one wish he 
 could live in this future and blast a few alien vermin, while experimenting with all sorts of future 
 technology.
  
  One of the few things that made me enjoy this game even more was the VS suits one gets to control, 
 in the game. I just wish most 3rd person, futuristic, sci-fi's would incorporate this in their 
 games. It's a pity that most of the time the antagonist is on foot and is pressured by the energy 
 he possesses. You can't just wander around exploring the fabulous barren environment which surrounds 
 you. I also wish that the game took me a little longer to finish, and give me some time to control 
 the VS at the boss stage. Then again nothing is perfect.
  
  Overall this game is definitely worth it. Excellent storyline, great weapons, wonderful environment 
 and an extreme experience controling the VS's.
  
  If any of you guys feel the way I do about this game, can you please send me a private message 
 with a list of games similar or better than Lost Planet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kgoduti
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 29, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  After playing Lost Planet, I'm officially writing off any game associated with CapCom. You may 
 be awe inspired by the winter wonderland setting of the game, but Lost's unoriginal concept, incredibly 
 easy game play, awful controls, and boring, repetitive, shoot 'em up style will leave you cold.
 
  
  The game begins with a mildly exciting 'escape from the big, indestructible alien jaunt through 
 the mysterious government complex' gag, but it's all downhill from there. After watching your dad 
 die and your unexplainable, unscathed escape from said complex, you wake to find yourself helped 
 by an unrealistically top heavy female Anime (soldier?) , a tech nerd who never takes off his goggles 
 and still manages to think dreads and a head band are cool, and some mysterious, tight lipped government 
 stooge who you can only assume will betray you at some point in the game. 
  
  Once you get through the strange cut scenes with the terrible voice acting, it's onwards to shoot 
 slow moving, non-aggressive, unorganized bugs and some equally moronic humans with the same guns 
 you have. What can be said about this over the shoulder shooting action other than: point, click, 
 point, click, strafe left, click, click... you get the idea. One of the more annoying aspects is 
 the seemingly unlimited amount of ammo you will find on such a deserted, frozen wasteland. Could 
 they colonize the planet? Nope, but they brought an ass load of machine guns! Oh, and make sure 
 after shooting and killing every enemy in sight, you run around pac-man style magically depositing 
 thermal energy into your knapsack so you don't freeze to death.
  
  I will note that the boss battles add a dash of difficulty to the game. Although it's more of the 
 'Damn, this is taking a long time doing the same thing' kind of difficulty. The frustration and 
 surprise comes when you finally get to jump into your father's highly coveted mech suit after breezing 
 through the first 10 cookie cutter levels and matching up with that big bad alien from the beginning. 
 Now, this may be the result of me not being good at the game, but considering I totally annihilated 
 everything in my path before this, I expected the same. To my surprise, I proceeded to get my ass 
 handed to me for the next 2 hours of trying and retrying, sitting through the same cut scene, and 
 getting annoyingly close to killing the damn thing before he wipes me out with his heat seeking.... back 
 spikes? At this point I threw my mouse up against the wall, tore the CD out of the drive, and cried 
 myself to sleep vowing to never play the game again.
  
  My advice for you, buy it if you love Ameri-Anime, shooting bugs, and being bored to tears. Otherwise, 
 leave it on the shelf.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 6, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  I think that slight below the score of 7 is just right for this game.
  
  SO 6.9 would be my score but I have to round it up to 7
  
  The storyline of the game is worn 
 out. New planet, new conspiracies blah blah. The dialogue in cutscenes is interesting but also 
 already seen. There is a clear attempt to try and connect you to the characters around you so that 
 you feel you are in the game but it's not successful and the game is too short for it anyway. You 
 have 11 missions an each one takes an hour at the most to complete. So, in 11 hours you're done. 
 That's pretty short, I'm sure everyone will agree. In actual fact, I'm not sure I've ever played 
 a shorter game.... perhaps solitaire but that's not in th same league.
  
  One huge letdown is the obvious conversion from xbox. You cannot set your own keys and for most 
 part of the game I don't think I used many of the weapons because they were just too awkward to 
 use with the preassigned buttons.
  
  Other than that, the game is kind of interesting. Shooting enemies and robot VS weapons to accomplish 
 missions if interesting. The boss fights are there too which is worn out but it's interesting. 
 
  
  All in all, don't expect too much from the game. If you are bored and want a bit of fun this game 
 will do it, but don't expect any huge revolutionary ideas.
  
  
  
  
  
  Graphics: 7/10 - ok, but I've seen better at lower resolution.
  
  Controls: 6/10 - pre-set 
 and awkward
  
  Immersiveness: 6/10 - too short to immerse. You simply do a mission and go for a cutscene. Nothing 
 else.
  
  
  Bugs: 10/10 - Many bugs, but luckily not the graphic kind. I experienced no bugs whatsoever.
 
  
  Voices: 7/10 - just average cliches
  
  Sounds: 8/10 - good sounds, nothing too impressive but still I don't want to give this game too 
 much of a hard time
  
  Storyline: as previously said, the game is too short for the storyline to develop and it is all 
 worn out and already seen.
  
  Length: 5/10 - you can finish this game on a saturday
  
  Music: won't really mark this because I didn't pay too much attention to it. 
  
  Difficulty: 
 7/10 - the game is pretty easy on normal difficulty. i like it that way, although i think taking 
 out a huge bug single handedly is a bit too ambitious.
  
  Gameplay: the gameplay overall which combines all these aspects means that the game deserves slightly 
 less than 7/10
  
  
  
  Overall: 6.9 / 10
  
  
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent 
 and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing if you have nothing else good to play
  6 - worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely 
 anything else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 since if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10)
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life. This applies unless I really am impressed 
 with a game and this game is only interesting and almost in no way impressive. 
  
  Best Wishes to everyone
  
  Zak 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cunhao
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet gained his fame when Capcom announced it to Pc, saying that the game would be launched 
 with Directx 10 support. This maked all users of graphic cards with dx10 support to stay anxious 
 to put theyr hands on it, because it's the first game with Dx10 support announced to pc. Owner 
 of a great visual and advanced effects, sometimes (mainly in the cut cenes) the game looks like 
 a movie. But all this graphic have a price, and if you don't have a high end pc, probably you have 
 problems to make it run smooth with a good resolution. The soundtrack is gorgeous and the sound 
 effects are amazing. Unhappyly, the voices are not so good...
  
  You control Wayne, a snow pirate that lives in a planet called EDN III, a frozen planet. In the 
 past, humans tried to establish a colony, but, because of the attacks from the Akrids (the race 
 that lives in EDN III) , they abandoned the planet. But when they discovered a new font of energy, 
 they had come back to fight the Akrid and extract this new source of energy. But in Lost Planet, 
 the history is not the point. And soon will stay very confusing, making you do things without understand 
 why. Many questions stay without a aswer (or one that make sense) .
  
  The game adds some interesting aspects in the gameplay. Wayne can execute a 'roll dodge' and he 
 have something lime a hook, that allow you to reach higher places and alow you to make some movements 
 to dodge or escape enemies. But the great is'nt that... is the mechs. You will encounter many of 
 them in the game, and they'll be basic to guarantee your survival. Some will have a higher firepower 
 but low maneuverability, and another will have a higher maneuverability, making great jumps and 
 dodges, but have only a chain gun... and in the middle of the game, you can pick a mech that have 
 two forms and others will have special attacks. 
  
  The controls are very well adapted to the Pc (in contrast with the Devil May Cry 4..) . But the 
 menu and the tutorial comands appear equal in the Xbox 360 version, making the learning of the 
 mechs control scheme confusing to learn in the begging.
  
  But the game brings to you a few human weapons. The majority will just use the machine gun along 
 all the game. Some others weapons are almost useless, like the sniper rifle, and others extreme 
 helpful, like the shotgun and the rocket. In another hand, the mechs don't need much weapons. All 
 are fun to use and play.
  
  The animation of Wayne entering in any mech is very cool. And this is another point to Lost Planet... 
 the movements. They are all very natural and realistic. And when you put it together with the strong 
 Blur Effect of the game, the movements stay much more real. But the characters are'nt very charismatic, 
 even when they're very detailed (ok... not all the chars are'nt charismatic. The beautiful Luka 
 and the attractive Basil are out of this evaluation..) . 
  
  The strong in this game is fight against the Akrids. When you play Lost Planet, you will think 
 "why we can't just kill Akrids?", this is because in some stages, you will have to fight against 
 others snow pirates and humans. But theyr AI is so stupid and idiot, that you will be bored just 
 to see one. But, when they come in a mech, all changes, and the battles gain new air. Another point 
 to mention, is the Boss Battles. The moment that Lost Planet really show it's potential (less the 
 last boss................) . The model designs of the bosses and the Akrids are great.
  
  The game have many traces of a arcade game. Each time you finish one stage, the game will count 
 the T-Eng collected, enemies defeated, mechs destroyed and some special itens that unlock achievements. 
 
  
  I almost forget it to say that in general, the games use the third person camera. But, when you 
 are'nt in a mech, you can use a zoomed third view or the FPS view (but I don't recommend..)
  
  The stages in general are large, with countless enemies. Some stages have a great design and 
 anothers are very simple or with nothing of special. All of them (except one or two) will be covered 
 with snow. Mountains, plains, cities, caves... they compose some of the places you will visit (sometimes 
 they combine, giving to the stage many looks) .
  
  The multiplayer is a shame.. it's hard to get a descent connection, the miss of more modes, like 
 the cooperative (in my opinion, in a game like this, coop is basic..) , gives to Lost Planet many 
 negative points, because he is very short, and the miss of a descent online play is a rope in the 
 neck.
  
  Resuming: Use mechs to fight against stupid humans, other mechs and giant insects in large stages 
 that are changed in truth war arena, with countless enemies at once and in the final of each stage 
 a great boss fight, followed by a great soundtrack and sound effects in a middle of a confusing 
 history and poor voice act. Soon will be all over (in normal difficult... 7 or 8 hours. Only 11 
 stages) , and you will search for more in multiplayer. But the multiplayer is broken and have many 
 bugs, more the miss of modes like the cooperative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgt_Levy
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 19, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  This game sucks, flat out sucks. Don't waste your money on it. You will be frustrated and amazed 
 that you wasted your time and money on such a pos. The controls are awful and unresponsive, to 
 the point that your hand will hurt after playing for only a short time. The graphics, to be honest, 
 are amazing, but in no way make up for the crappy game mechanics. In short, you would think with 
 such advanced technology as the characters in this game are supposed to possess, they could make 
 a damn vehicle that moves faster than a snail. Hell, I would be satisfied if the character could 
 just run fast! The only thing exciting about this steaming heap is the graphics, the gameplay is 
 broken to point of being too frustrating to mess with. If you have a lot of patience, then be my 
 guest and waste your money on this crap. But don't say I didn't tell you so when you break your 
 monitor in half. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chasinpaper2005
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 11:04 pm PT
Review:  For a modest gamer the game can be somewhat difficult at times, but the challenge is not completely 
 overwhelming when played on normal. Furthermore, if played on hard you may need to be a gung-ho 
 gamer to play this some what challenging game. I believe this game is a great buy and I feel like 
 I got my moneys worth for it . The graffix and rendering are done very well , but maybe to much 
 for older video cards. However, my over clocked 3600hd series video card does an impressive job 
 of rendering this game (I think it looks way better than my 360 my did) for the 99 bucks I spent 
 on it. I didn't give this game a ten because it does follow in others foot steps. Although it does 
 a good job of stepping of the beaten trail ,and being its own game not just another copy cat. This 
 game is not some revolutionary game . Its still alot of fun though , over all a pretty good game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 25, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet was released for Xbox 360 back in January 2007 and then was ported to the PC in June 
 2007. It was the first game to utilize DirectX 10. So, is the game worth it? I would say half-and 
 half. Lost Planet tells the story of Wayne Holden and his merry gang battling against a corporation 
 called NEVEC on the ice-cold planet of EDN III, where insect-like aliens called Akrid roam the 
 icy slopes. Most people will probably get a vague sense of what's going on but the story introduces 
 a lot of characters and you have no idea where they popped up. Well, you do, but its all very convoluted. 
 Also, NEVEC's goal is to terraform the planet so its inhabitable by humans, so isn't that a GOOD 
 THING, I mean, why is Wayne fighting to keep the planet an ice-ball? Well, who am I to question 
 the wisdom of Capcom? Anyway, so the story is somewhat of a throwaway but the visuals are amazing. 
 All the environments are incredibly detailed and the enemies are imaginative and seem to jump out 
 of the screen. The sound is a mixed bag; the voice work is a little cheesy but the bug effects 
 are nice. Your speakers will be showered with lots of screaming bugs. In addition, the game has 
 something called Thermal Energy (T-Eng) that you must collect from downed enemies to survive from 
 the cold. However, the counter will always be counting down and when it hits zero, you die, so 
 you must constantly collect T-Eng. The game has two problems. For one thing, the PC controls don't 
 really respond well and seem sluggish. Also, all the menus still have the Xbox 360 buttons tacked 
 on so I recommend studying the mouse and keyboard controls before playing. The second problem is 
 that Wayne gets easily knocked to the ground way to much. In fact, its annoying and will probably 
 make you give up playing (which I did; I couldn't beat the boss in Mission 9, and I was almost 
 done wit the game) . He just gets knocked down and then he goes through this long animation to get 
 up and gets knocked down... again!!!! Overall, the game is pretty short but if you can deal with 
 the sluggish controls and the getting knocked down, you should have a great time, but for most, 
 they should just continue playing their Crysis or Bioshock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oggy1985
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 15, 2008 1:07 am PT
Review:  It's chilly, it has a lot of bugs & you have to collect orange mater (youll know what it 
 its) to survive. Graphics will suck you in, bugs will keep you in & if youre good and your 
 mom let you drive the VS, well, you may even get out from that extreme planet ;) 
  
  It is fun to play with big bugs & drive VS around. The ambient & surrounding just sucks you in 
 & the graphics is really attractive.
  The only two bad things are that AI doesnt always respond to you, but in some cases thats 
 good because it would be to hard in some parts to do the job. The second problem you might have 
 with hardware, it will be playable, but if you have 9800GTX SLI, even the Vsync doesnt 
 correct lines that appear in the game. But its still weary playable on 1680x1020 on single 
 9800GTX with everything on high
  The game isnt short. Well, it could be, if you rush from point A to point B in shortest 
 line & do nothing. But thats waste of money & time, why would you buy the game that you 
 dont want to play? If you are looking for all the collectables, kill most of the acrids 
 (thats the bugs name :D ) & discover a bit of surroundings than the game will last for a 
 decent while even in SP. Oh, and in case I forgot to mention, the game is really fun to play, with 
 good graphics Could even say eye candy-sh ;)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blade_Tr4iner
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 2, 2008 5:54 am PT
Review:  My first and greatest complaint about Lost Planet is Steam. You can read all about my grief in 
 my blog so I'll leave it at that.
  
  Lost Planet takes place on the planet E. D. N. III, a colony of humanity covered in snow and infested 
 by alien creatures known as Akrid. The only reason humanity stays behind to fight is because of 
 the Thermal Energy provided by - and only by - the Akrid. You yourself play as Wayne, a Snow Pirate 
 who has lost all his memory except for one thing - that your father was killed by the Akrid known 
 as Green Eye.
  
  The storyline in Lost Planet isn't groundbreakingly original, and can be painfully cheesy in spots, 
 but it provides a good atmosphere for the game as well as an excuse to run through snow in a giant 
 robot. What else does a story need?
  
  From a graphical point of view, Lost Planet is amazing - you leave footsteps in the snow, snow 
 gathers on you as you walk or fall through it unfortunately, only as a texture) , explosions are 
 a sight to behold with giant plumes of smoke billowing out - Capcom threw just about every single 
 graphical bell and whistle they could at this game, and it results in a stunning game - that also 
 kills all but the beefiest rig. Even a 9800GTX struggles occasionally at higher detail levels and 
 resolutions. If your computer can handle it though, it's worth it - Lost Planet blows you away.
 
  
  The audio just misses being of the same quality. For the most part, voice acting is good, but occasionally 
 a line seemed forced or unnatural. Music is also there but tends to get drowned out by the sound 
 effects. The sound effects, though, are excellent - explosions, gunshots, the sound of wind and 
 your feet crunching in the snow - most of it sounds just like you'd expect it to.
  
  Gameplay, for the most part, is good - but in a few cases it tends to fall flat due to it's console 
 origin. The instructions littered throughout the game are hampered by mostly only being for 360 
 controllers, making keyboard and mouse users like me a tad confused in spots. Once you've got the 
 controls down pat, though, shooting giant insects and robots becomes relatively easy and massively 
 enjoyable, especially with some of the more explosive weapons available.
  As for the combat itself, the game is relatively easy for the most part, even the boss fights rarely 
 making me need to repeat more than once or twice. Once you know which position on your enemy to 
 shoot or which area makes good cover against that laser wielding VS (Vital Suits, the name of the 
 giant robots) , it becomes simple enough, although rarely losing that element of challenge which 
 keeps it entertaining.
  
  Overall, Lost Planet is a good game on just about any console. It loses something for it's control 
 and installation issues, but is one of the few games in the last year or so which I have actually 
 sat and played through in one sitting (yes, it is unfortunately that short too, having a campaign 
 length of about 8 hours) .
  
  Well worth it - if you don't already have it on console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Read full review and score breakdown here:
  http://www. poland. us/strona,33,2268,0. html
  
  Capcom has quite a history in the gaming market, especially with its zombie-horror game: Resident 
 Evil. In recent years, Capcom has started to expand with new IPs such as Dead Rising and the new 
 third-person shooter: Lost Planet. With its arcadey combat and unique environments, Lost Planet 
 is a fun third-person shooter with an intriguing campaign.
  
  In the future, humanity has started a search for new planets to colonize. One of the candidates 
 is E. D. N. III, a frozen wasteland. Humanity landed there years ago only to find the Akrid, a race 
 of insect-like aliens which lived and thrived off the thermal energy present in pockets around 
 the planet. You play as Wayne, a soldier whose father is killed in the introduction by Green Eye, 
 a giant Akrid. What follows is a tale of revenge, which quickly takes a turn as various human factions 
 are introduced to the mix, making the whole plot bigger than just Wayne's personal hunt. Unfortunately, 
 the story's presentation isn't impressive, with sparse dialog and radio transmissions during gameplay. 
 The story is really advanced through abrupt cutscenes that interrupt gameplay and are kind of confusing.
 
  
  The game plays mainly from a third-person perspective, along with some limited zoom and first-person 
 gameplay. The majority of the gameplay takes place while shooting the Akrid. There's a huge variety 
 of them, down from Starship Trooper/Antlion-types up to flying dragon-like monstrosities. They 
 come at you from all angles, and are incredibly well-rendered. Whenever you're attacked by a huge 
 one, your character is knocked down and forced to get back to his feet. While it sounds like a 
 cool idea, it does get annoying when you are a victim to a large flurry of attacks that Wayne can't 
 escape.
  
  Wayne's health and ability to use special weapons is based on how much thermal energy, or T-Gen, 
 he's collected. You can find it either in puddles scattered throughout all of the game and even 
 inside dead Akrid. The catch is that your energy falls constantly, depending on the temperature 
 of the environment. When you are hit, the T-Gen is drawn on to regenerate your health. Combat is 
 actually quite easy, with weak spots on each insect. The only encounters that might give you some 
 challenge are the boss battles, which are often pretty entertaining in terms of scale and action. 
 Akrids aren't the only enemies, but the humans you fight through the game are decidedly less interesting/varied.
 
  
  Another huge part of the game takes place in targeting mech-like vital suits. Piloting a VS is 
 easy, and there are a few different types. Some of them can jump, others can dig through environments. 
 In general, there's a great selection of weapons, which both Wayne and a VS can pick up.
  
  Lost Planet is pretty short, taking up to 12 hours. The multiplayer has standard deathmatch, team 
 deathmatch, post-grab (Battlefield-like gameplay) and fugitive mode, pitting everyone against a 
 single defender. The maps are pretty large and detailed. Again, as most new games, the multiplayer 
 doesn't really do anything new to distinguish itself from others.
  
  In terms of graphical design, Lost Planet is beautiful. Everything is strong, from textures, to 
 character models and environments. The console version's look great, but the PC version with DX10 
 effects enabled is simply amazing, with even better motion blur and "fur rendering."
  
  Lost Planet is a fun, great-looking arcade romp through a short, intriguing campaign. While not 
 measuring up to the complexity and quality of the Resident Evil games, its worth-looking at for 
 action gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuvze
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 29, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  lost planet can be called a great start to the new age gaming.. especially the xbox 360.. it has 
 amazing visualization of the snow covered world in the future.. beautifully designed aliens.. great 
 action on the move always.. top of all amazing graphics and a pleasure to watch.. i was impressed 
 about what the 360 can give and also next gen gaming after playing this one.. am not at all pleased 
 with the review given by anyone for this as i give it full credit for being a great game and also 
 look forward to playing all of its series thats gonna come up.. would have been just amazing if 
 they had the unreal engine to it and the characters felt and moved like in gears of war.. so my 
 cup of tea would be the world of lost planet, with action and characters from gears of war.. absolutely 
 good work though by capcom.. waiting for the next one.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooyas
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 3, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  The game is a great game in graphic details but actually it has some problems. First of all Capcom 
 is not a good game designer for PC. Both Resident Evil and Lost Planet have a problem with their 
 controls. The game is designed to be played by a gamepad but Lost Planet does not support one and 
 makes you to play with the keyboard but the guide is only designed for gamepad players and no mapping 
 available. Second, the game script is awful; you are a hero to save the world by bad people. It's 
 very routine and no innovation. There are many script flaws in the game. For example in the last 
 scene, Wayne dies and after one year he accidentally appears again. Third, The thermal energy countdown 
 has a bad effect for gamers who want to plan before attacks. It gives you a little time to think 
 and act as soon as possible. However if you look at your PDA, the game won't pause so you can not 
 find any spot when you are fighting thus no strategy plan can be used. Forth, the monsters are 
 not placed correctly by each level. In my opinion Green Eye is harder that the next level monster. 
 I really think I wasted my time on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dib9394
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 12:54 am PT
Review:  Lost Planet is one of Capcom's cool games (Starship Troopers, but a winter version) for Xbox 360, 
 PS3 and PC but the PC has bad controls. To the original gameplay of Lost Planet, it's fun with 
 all those, cliff grappling and exhilarting bug fights. The designs of the game are quite interesting 
 and very great. The graphics are very professional and awesome for the winter environments of a 
 game. Well, the bad things are mostly the controls and the frustration of actually trying to get 
 up from being knocked out, and get knocked out again. The boss fights are somewhat interesting 
 to fight with all it's challenging weak points and defenses. The story is a little bad and uninteresting. 
 This game has a worth playing gameplay. The controls may be annoying but if your a fan of Capcom 
 games or love these type of Third-Person games, this is a worth-while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boda3000
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 21, 2008 8:25 am PT
Review:  Story-7,0
  
  Lost Planet: Extreme Condition is a Third-Person Sci-Fi Shooter by Capcom. It is set on E. D. N. 
 III, a really cold planet being colonized by Earth. On the first attempt of colonization, Earth 
 met the local alien, the Akrid, who possessed a powerful energy called thermal energy. The aliens 
 were hostile and fought Earth's forces and eventually Earth abandoned the colony. Some were left 
 behind, though, and turned into nomads called Snow Pirates. The humans, in the meantime, developed 
 a new weapon to counter the Akrid, the Vital Suit  VS, which used thermal energy in its actions. 
 With this new power, the humans continued the colonization process while trying to exterminate 
 the Akrid.
  However, all this story does not connect well together with the role the main character plays in 
 the game. The main character is Wayne and the only background we get from him is that his father 
 was killed by a giant Akrid called green eye. In the same moment his father was killed, Wayne was 
 frozen inside his VS. Four years later, he is discovered and unfrozen by a small group of Snow 
 Pirates led by a man named Yuri. Right after this scenes, you are already thrown into action and 
 a big space in the storyline is not filled up, making the player feel somewhat lost. After battling 
 a few times with the Akrid and eventually defeating green eye, you face NEVEC, a force sent by 
 Earth to eliminate the Snow Pirates and the Akrid.
  
  Gameplay-6,5
  
  The game plays out as an original third-person shooter. You have grenades, machine guns, rocket 
 launchers and sci-fi weapons like the plasma gun and the disc grenade. The VS are also around and 
 provide good firepower for you. The VS can be equipped with gatling guns, rocket launchers, laser 
 rifles and even homing missiles. You can have up to two weapons equipped on the VS.
  The game is divided into several missions, with the storyline advancing between these missions. 
 Every mission has tons of enemies and ends with a boss battle. You actually feel like the Rambo 
 of E. D. N. III because of the exaggerated number of enemies. The mission gameplay, however, makes 
 every mission seem totally disconnected from the main story.
  Throughout the missions, you need thermal energy, or T-ENG, to survive. T-ENG is spent over time 
 and is required to recover health or pilot a VS. The T-ENG gameplay adds a sort of "time attack" 
 feeling to the missions and can be irritating if you play carefully and does not go out guns blazing. 
 In a harder difficulty, T-ENG is spent faster and you get the timed mission feeling even more frequently. 
 It seems good in theory but, while you are playing, it is just annoying.
  
  Graphical-7,0
  
  The graphics are good, but not excellent. There is a motion blur option that 
 is cool at first and just disturbing later on. Turning on the motion blur makes you notice all 
 the pixels around and gives an ugly visual. Smoke effects are around too and only make playing 
 difficult, especially during VS fights.
  The character design is really good, though. There are a lot of details to the characters' clothing 
 and it is very interesting. However, face animation, especially the mouth, seems broken and could 
 have had more work on it.
  
  Sound and music-9,0
  
  The sound effects are really good, and explosions sound like explosions. The background music is 
 orchestral and adds an epic feeling, especially in boss battles. But, amongst explosions and alien 
 roars, it just becomes really background and is hard to notice.
  
  Final score-7,0
  
  Lost Planet: Extreme Condition is a good third-person shooter, but, in the end, the story just 
 stays really far away from the gameplay. You should get it if you do not mind having to kill lots 
 of enemies over and over again while doing it fast.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrizzlyJim
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 11, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  I loved the demo, so I bought the game. I didn't know that the controls would be such a problem. 
 Yes, the graphics are terrific. The story line? Who really pays attention? I don't. I like the 
 game, but I don't love it. I'm on the level after the ice field, trying to defeat the gal in the 
 VS who somehow has all the ability to move fast and freely, yet I'm stuck running cumbersomely 
 SLOW and when I get into a VS, it too runs or moves incredibly slow. I hit the reload button two 
 or three times before it starts to reload. Likwise, when my character is outside the VS, you have 
 to hit the reload button 3-4 times before he reloads the cannon, and even then, he has to stop 
 and stand still - making him easy target for the opponent. If you take cover to try and avoid the 
 lasar, it amazingly travels right through walls! Incredible! And I read some walkthroughs to try 
 and see how to get past this damned VS enemy. They all say "just hover to avoid the lasar"... Swell, 
 but MY VS won't hover. Actually, I can never tell if it will jump when I hit the damned button 
 3-4 times, hold it down with all my might, or if it will respond. Even when I'm hit, I try to eject 
 and nothing doing. So yeah, I like this game, but I really hate unresponsive controls. I should've 
 put this enemy away a long time ago, but again, the controls make me battle the game as well as 
 the enemy! It's unfair to fps gamers to have to battle like that. Maybe the VS work better on X-box 
 or Playstation, but on PC, they work incredibly slow - at least, on THIS level. I'd give the game 
 a 10 for graphics, but only about a 6.0 for gameplay. Maybe a 15 for frustration... The neighbors 
 have already called the police on me for screaming at the computer so much... "Jump! Jump! Jump, 
 you SOB!!!!!" Geez, don't these designers ever actually play the game before they put them out???? 
 I'm playing on the normal level, mind you. Generally, I avoid picking up any heavy artillery because 
 the character runs like he's carrying a ten-ton mack truck! Maybe that's realistic, but it's hell 
 when you're trying to battle an enemy that has no problem moving around at ease. The Walkthrough 
 said you can avoid the lasar by jumping over it. You bet... I hit jump and he stands there, getting 
 cut down by the lasar... Swell... great controls! Earlier int he game I didn't seem to have any 
 problems in the VS. I've tried all kinds of different scenarios to beat that enemy VS but, thus 
 far, no luck. The smoke she puts off makes it difficult to locate her and when I hit fire, it hesitates. 
 Damn!!! And then, you have to constantly look for more of that T-eng or whatever it's called. If 
 you put the cannon down and run to a spot to get some, you get blasted to pieces... the enemy can 
 shoot accurately from any spot but your shots seem to always miss... ok, maybe that's not fair. 
 But, when you have a hesitation when you hit fire, that's really lousy. It gets you killed over 
 and over and over again. Generally, I don't mind fighting the critters in this game. But, I hate 
 these damned VS... Ok, so would I recommend this game? Sure. It's not bad, aside from the controls. 
 Was it worth the money buying it new? No, I don't think so. I'd recommend waiting and buying it 
 used. But then, be very careful. This is one of those STEAM games and I highly recommend everyone 
 NOT buy STEAM games. I absolutely HATE STEAM. Why? Because you have to go online to play. AND, 
 if you buy it used, you have to have the original (unused) registration key. Otherwise, it won't 
 let you play. When you buy normal used games, you don't have that problem. STEAM sucks and I would 
 urge all gamers to push to get rid of STEAM. Otherwise, your old games, when your'e done playing 
 them, are worthless. Enough said. Somebody needs to be realistic with their walkthroughs and explain 
 to the gamers how difficult some of these levels are... GrizzlyJim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b36soldier
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 8, 2008 10:58 pm PT
Review:  I started playing this game with an open mind and did not know what to expect. 
  What i thought when playing the game is that this title was created with the intention only for 
 a sinlge player campaign, then just deciding to throw a multiplayer option on after that really 
 sucks.
  Playing the campaign is really good, you has a nice variety of weapons, a half decent story line 
 and some really excellent mecha animation and controls that puts all other recent mecha based games 
 to shame.
  You complete the campaign, feel good about yourself then decide to go on and play mulitplayer!
 
  
  Multi plaer on this game is what really gives this game a kick in the nuts, the game modes are 
 crap, theres hardly anyone online and the maps seem to be put together on the 'Time Splitters 2' 
 map editor for the GC.
  If this game had a stronger multiplayer option, then it would be on my list of great games.
  
 
  Overall its worth a try i dunno if you should buy it, maybe if you play it at a friends house first 
 to test then make a decision. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charlievo
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2007 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Very good games. One of the best, especially playing it at 1920x1200 res with 4x by 8x antiliasing, 
 graphics was really nice. the game place was pretty good, the storyline was interesting. I start 
 it playing at medium difficulty but it was harder than i thought. It sucks that a lot of good games 
 on console should come o out on Pc, but the market is too smart and they're afraid that if they 
 do, no one will buy console. The game was design on a PC so it's hard for them to release it PC 
 too. either way i hope they do make the 2nd games i will definitely buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvz12
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 29, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  this game is boring a lot of talk, like "anime" is like to play a japonese child's story, boring 
 and boring, the graphics are cool but not really impressive and the sound of this game is like 
 just noise it gets you tire after a while playing and all levels are quite same an stupid monster 
 at the end of the level is like playing gears of war but worst , is just killing stupidlly and 
 the long and tire scenes that you must watch to understand the game this game is stupid and is 
 waste of time.. i recommend to not play this boring game maybe you can play unreal, crysis, call 
 fo duty , half life those games that really make you get into the story and not like this crap. 
 
  besides the game requires a high end computer for what??? and don't know the only think is this 
 game is blur even if you only move your arm the put a blur effect on it.
  and the textures and are not good at all the should work better on textures and lighting effects 
 but looks like they didnt this game is for consoles is not for pc this is crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demi_veritaz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  This is probably more of an eye candy game than anything, with screen filling monsters and enough 
 explosions to go around.
  Honestly, it's pretty enjoyable if you'd like a mind-numbing shooter that has hordes of nasty bugs 
 to slaughter.
  The biggest thing weighing it down as of yet would probably be the lack luster storyline. It doesn't 
 really fit all the mindless killing. Introducing new characters and politics to make it seem more 
 in depth really just hurts it. The game could've just gave the premise that bugs=threat, you= guy 
 with gun, shoot. And that would be satisfying enough. Oh well.. It doesn't get in the way of the 
 gameplay.
  The AI is pretty **** though. Bugs will get hung up on dataposts, if you're far enough away, you 
 can just snipe nearly every pirate, because they don't reat unless they see you.
  Visuals=Pretty damn good. Ive got a decent system going and still had to set shadows to medium 
 to keep 70 fps as opposed to 10-30 fps with high shadow detail.
  Yes, shadows made 40-60 frames of difference just one notch up. It didn't really affect the battles 
 though, fortunately.
  
  Multiplayer: Haven't tied it yet.
  
  visuals=9
  concept=8
  execution=8
  ai=6
  value=7
  
  Fortunately I got this game for free from cyberpower. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kerosine18
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 2:59 am PT
Review:  I'll start from stating something first - I got this game for free with my 8800GTS video card, 
 so I wasn't expecting anything from this game when I first ran it.
  
  I was immediately impressd with the graphics, really awesome smoke and blur effects... Verdict: 
 10/10 for graphics right away.
  
  Sound is also amazing, yet it could have been slightly better, like different sounds for the various 
 VS models, and some changes to the overly similar voices of the soldiers / snow pirates you fight 
 against. Akrid sound delicious though.. hehehe
  Verdict: 8.5/10 for sounds!
  
  When it came to gameplay, I was equally impressed however the story still leaves some unexplained 
 elements, and some boss fights are way too easy to actually reflect the supposedly 'grave' situations 
 you are put into. Still, the game's fun to play and it does have it's scary moments, as huge Akrid 
 (monsters) rise up in a sudden bang from underneath your feet and it does make you jump occassionally 
 ;) Verdict: 7.5/10
  
  Multiplayer: only tried this once and it wasn't very appealing and crashed right away. Won't please 
 most multiplayer fans I guess... but I'm not a huge fan of multiplayer games so doesn't bother me 
 much.
  Verdict: 5/10 (at least it's available anyway, and can be patched no?)
  
  The average score would be 7.75 / 10, but I'll give it an 8.5 as I rate graphics &amp; gameplay 
 more highly. Hope review was helpful!
  
  Overall, I think this is an 8.5/10 Game, great potential but 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g3noc1d3r
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  I am not one to say pc versions are better than console but in this case it is, Quote on direct 
 x 10 format. The graphics are much more rich and crisp. But the gameplay is jawdropping at times 
 you will get overwhelmed. The single player is great but multiplayer is another story meaning in 
 surpasses the story with great huge fire fights on these icy levels which is great but the that 
 does not stop hackers who just take the fun out of it so that could be in the way. But anyway it 
 is a great buy depending if your pc can run it so check it out if you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ice-Blade
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  outstanding graphics average storyline average game-play 
  In general this is a great game but if you look in the details you'll find that the game needs 
 a little bit extra work i mean this is a PC game now make it more like Max Payne with tide game-play 
 movements
  I haven't tried multi-player mode but if the game-play in it like the campaign mode i guess it 
 sucks in multi-player mode
  the characters in story mode are a little bit cartooned and fictional i mean what is wrong with 
 weird outfits and strange hair color
  Anyway i really enjoyed it and thats all i have got to say 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DudeX01
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 4, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  Porting control issues are frustrating. Nice visuals. If I paid for it I would more unhappy. Came 
 with XFX card. So I would recommend not buying untiil price came down to 29.99 or something like 
 that. Really, there is no excuse for not adapting the controls to the PC. It is a negligent attitude 
 that disrespects the PC customer. I would also have expected more anger about this from the reviewer. 
 The story is a little campy. It is really funny that one of the main characters has cleavage when 
 the environment is sooo cold. Really though I am not complaining but its pandering is so obvious 
 there. Did I say it was nice cleavage? However, not worth the 39.99 for the game. Finally, the 
 whole needing to have an internet connection is just insulting. I would never, ever buy a game 
 that requires one just for copyright protection. That is why even after I got Half Life 2 as a 
 gift I could not bring myself to play it. I am trying to get over it, so I only took 1/2 pt off. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warpld
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  I was reading all over the net how bad this game actually was but I found myself short of shooters 
 to play and since I wanted something short, with good graphics and, after being bored by Bioshock, 
 with spectacular enemies as well, I ended up with Lost Planet: Extreme Condition. I guess when 
 expectations are lowered so much by the press, one is in for a really pleasant surpirse...
  
  First off, graphics are just wow! I knew the game is beautiful, but this is unbelievable. I 
 just can't imagine what more could the famed Crysis offer when it comes out. I haven't been so 
 impressed with the enemies in a game since Doom 2. Main characters are also just alive. On the 
 other hand, environments, even though detailed, are a bit scarcely populated with objects making 
 them look plain. Effects like smoke and decals are just incredible and during an intense firefight 
 with explosions, one often looses orientation from all that smoke, which seems realistic to me, 
 even though it is sometimes annoying.
  
  I hear multiplayer is really bad, however, the single player campaign is very strong with an interesting, 
 though sometimes incoherently conveyed, story.
  
  Other apsect where I hear the game sucks is stability under Vista and DX10. Well, I played it under 
 XP and DX9 and didn't expirience a single crash. System requirements are also not that steep when 
 concerning DX9.
  
  I found action sequences in the game quite boring when being on foot, but driving mechs is arcade 
 and fun and there are plenty of mechs in the game. What is more, intense boss battles at the end 
 of each level more than make up for the poor action during the levels. Those battles are lots of 
 fun and sometimes quite challanging. Battling the Green Eye one sees in the prologue really made 
 me kick around my keyboard. I must admit though, this is partially due to the poor control with 
 mouse and keyboard which occured after porting the game from the X-BOX 360. It is beyond me how 
 it is even possible a shooter to be played better with a console controler rather than a keyboard 
 and a mouse, but this one is just the case.
  
  Once you get used to the controls though, Lost Planet becomes a really enjoyable and even memorable 
 experience due to the whole setting.
  
  One last remark for the game - there are secrets in the game in the form of coins to shoot, however 
 I never managed to find all secrets on one level and don't know what bonuses they provide, because 
 the constantly depleting thermal energy does not tolerate dawdling around. That same thermal energy 
 and the way it recharges your health makes you practically immortal during the levels. Still one 
 can die easily in some particular occasions and in boss battles but again only because of the poor 
 controls and the way some enemies shoot at you exactly at the rate of which you get off the floor. 
 That is really annoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultimatexpka
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  This game has to be one of the best bug games out there yet. But the controls make the game absolutely 
 unplayable. If you jerk the mouse just a little but you turn 180 degrees around. The controls are 
 outrageous even updating the game didn't fix up the problem. I didn't beat the game because of 
 the horrible controls so this is basically why I'm giving it a low score. If you are going to make 
 a good game like this. AT LEAST put some good control options because the controls they currently 
 put on this game lack stability and lack lots of smoothness. The controls act jerky and such. The 
 game might be better played of a controller but if your a pc gamer, you always want to use the 
 ol mouse and keyboard. And im not going in stores to waste more money for a controller. This game 
 got a 5.5 out of me just because it had very intense graphics and you get to fight big monsters. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saurabhmisra87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 11:53 pm PT
Review:  It was great news when CAPCOM decided to launch its XBOX 360 title on PC. The game, as expected 
 offers next gen graphics and correspondingly improved gameplay. It offers an option to run using 
 DX9 or DX10 although there is not much difference in the two modes. But rest assured that youll 
 require a tank full of processing capability if you want to run this game at its full potential.
 
  
  STORY AND GAMEPLAY:- The story kicks off with you controlling a character called WAYNE. WAYNE, 
 with his father and colleagues is on a planet called E. N. D III which is totally covered with snow 
 which makes it highly unfavourable for human survival. Moreover, it is infested with super hostile 
 creatures called the AKRID. We find ourselves battling one such big Akrid called the GREEN EYE. 
 In our attempt to escape, Waynes father GALE father falls victim to the giant akrid. The story 
 progresses as a sequence of missions to finally reach the Green eye to get our revenge. But, it 
 doesnt end here. Various clues lead to the conclusion that Waynes father was actually murdered 
 by top officials of an association called NEVEC. Further investigation reveals NEVECs true intention 
 i. e to complete the FRONTIER PROJECT that would wipe the akrid threat along with all living life 
 on the planet. Obviously, it is our duty to stop the project and avenge our fathers murder. In 
 all, there are 11 missions. The view is third person although you can zoom in for a shoulder view 
 and a first person view. The gameplay involves a lot of shooting. So you can expect an arsenal 
 of weapons to be available at your disposal. The guns include the most useful and frequent machine 
 gun, plasma gun, energy gun, EM laser gun, laser gun, the very useful rocket launcher, etc. The 
 concept of health is rather innovative. All life on the planet is sustained by THERMAL ENERGY which 
 appears as a glowing viscous golden fluid. Wayne will also require thermal energy to survive. Whenever 
 you get hurt, thermal energy will be consumed to maintain your full health. You get thermal energy 
 by killing akrids and other mechanical or human enemies. The most exciting and thrilling feature 
 according to me is that we get to control VITAL SUITS (VS) . VSs are robotic suits which wayne can 
 enter and exit at will. There are various kinds of VSs in the game and all with their own special 
 abilities. They are equipped with different types of weapons but a gattling gun and a rocket launcher 
 are the usual ones attached to the left or right part of the VS. The VSs are an absolute delight 
 to control, cause destruction and kick some Akrid a**. Other abilities include a grappling hook 
 with a limited range which enables Wayne to climb certain heights. THE ENEMIES:- In the initial 
 missions, the most frequent enemies would be the Akrids. Now, there are these giant Akrids which 
 are quite scary and dangerous. But then there are these small ones which look so pathetic and never 
 even attack you. They approach you so calmly that gives you a feeling that they are lil babies 
 mistaking you for their mommy. They prove to be nothing but a big frustration and annoyance. They 
 appear in vast numbers and you are forced to shoot them. There are also human enemies namely SNOW 
 PIRATES and the NEVEC Soldiers which do provide a lil resistance. The NEVEC soldiers are often 
 equipped with big guns to provide you with some entertaining battles. But there are times when 
 they just stand still and do nothing just to become a victim of our bullet.
  
  THE BOSSES:- This is the main feature why this game appealed to me the most. Of all the games that 
 I have played, I never made my way through so many bosses. Size wont matter as youll be battling 
 with tremendously large akrid bosses. There will be bosses as VSs controlled by human enemies, 
 but theyll be easy. Battling the huge Akrids is a real treat. The Akrids have armor on their whole 
 body except for a few places which form the weak spots and this is where we have to shoot. This 
 becomes kinda difficult as the Akrid boss goes on becoming more and more violent as we deplete 
 his life. The Akrid also attacks with his special abilities unique for each boss. Getting on a 
 well equipped VS and shooting, dodging and jumping around the whole landscape provides an unforgettable 
 experience. It provides almost all the fun you can expect out of a boss mission. In the last mission, 
 you get to control a super strong VS designed for Wayne. This VS has amazing powers with a LASER 
 sword on both robotic hands which will slash the daylights outta the last boss. The battle takes 
 place in air, so youll be flying around in the whole fight.
  
  GRAPHICS:- The graphics as I already said are exceptionally good looking. The open landscapes with 
 snow lying around and sometimes even snowstorms encountered give a very realistic feeling about 
 the planets extreme condition. Even the indoors are beautiful and accurately depicted with broken 
 buildings and debris lying around. Even the minute details on almost every object especially the 
 enemies have been nicely designed. The texture and colour of the akrids is really jaw dropping. 
 But my personal favourite were the VSs. There are so beautifully designed with their gears and 
 hydraulics visible. Their movements are accurately simulated. They look very, very real. Even the 
 inner visible parts of the VSs seem to move when they move.
  
  AUDIO:- The sound effects are equally worthy of acknowledgement. The cries and roars of the akrids, 
 the movement sounds of the VSs, the gun sound effects and the miscellaneous environment sounds 
 have been nicely incorporated.
  
  BOTTOM LINE:- Incredibly splendid environments, beautiful character/creature design and graphics, 
 lots and believe me, lots of shooting will certainly keep you busy and entertained for a while. 
 All in all, this a great game certainly worth playing but lacks that addictive attraction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sagatbsaint
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 5:04 pm PT
Review:  rrrrrr... ctrl c +ctrl v
  
  Lost Planet: Extreme Condition   
  
 is a third-person shooter video game created by Capcom for Microsoft's Xbox 360, PS3 and PC. It 
 was produced by Keiji Inafune, the creator of the Onimusha and Mega Man series.
  
  The game utilizes both vital suit (also known as VS, which is like a mecha or robotic armour) piloting 
 and on-foot exploration and features Korean actor Lee Byung-Hun as the model for the main character, 
 Wayne. [1] Lost Planet was released on January 12, 2007, in North America and PAL regions. Lost 
 Planet: Trag Zero, a prequel which focuses on the character of Gale, Wayne's father, is also expected 
 to be released on cell phones [4] .
  
  Lost Planet: Extreme Condition was released on Windows in June in Europe and North America. The 
 Windows version includes DirectX 10 support, when run in Windows Vista [2] , and enhanced graphics [3] . 
 A demo for the Windows version was released on May 15, 2007, which was the first playable game 
 to showcase DirectX 10.
  
  On 17 October 2007, Capcom announced a PlayStation 3 version, including all 360 downloadable content 
 and PC bonus characters, would be released in 2008. The game will offer 16 player online play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raptole
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2007 1:56 am PT
Review:  I think that this game is overrated! I think that it can't be real, it isn't real!
  This game is nice, but I can't unerstand why everybody I ask something about the game, says that 
 it is awesome, perfect and etc.
  Yep, it's nice but there is no way to be one of the best games for 2007!
  One of the best games 
 for 2007 should be Gears of War (PC) or Crysis (PC) or something different!
  It is good, the graphics are nice, and it was one of the first games with DirectX 10 engine, but 
 I still don't like it very, very much to vote for it with 10 points! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hollow_ichigo7
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2007 6:14 am PT
Review:  Alright, so at first, you might find it annoying, because you need an internet connection to play, 
 and you need a Steam account. However, it doesn't take too long to set up an account, and they 
 are only doing this to reduce piracy. So, it is kind of good. Once you start up the game and play 
 the single-player campaign though, you won't be playing a game anymore. You'll be immersed into 
 the icy, forgotten wasteland of E. D. N. III. And you'll battle deadly Akrid and Snow Pirates. As 
 your Thermal energy drops, your heart beats faster and faster till you feel that it's going to 
 burst out and drop on the floor. As you run towards your weapon, you pray that you won't get hit. 
 Lost Planet: Extreme Condition is truly a wonderful experience and the gameplay is so realistic, 
 I'm surprised they managed to put it together with such a compelling and dramatic storyline that 
 really gets to you. However, that is the good part about it. The bad part is, most things are displayed 
 as A, B, Y and X. Capcom did not really port the game properly, but it is only a minor thing, it 
 doesn't really bother anyone. However, what really surprises me is that the single-player campaign 
 is so short that I managed to complete it in 3 days, playing only about 4 hours per day on average. 
 Overall, Lost Planet: Extreme Condition is a really great game, and though most people would complain 
 that the DirectX9 version has little difference in graphics to the DirectX10 version, I want them 
 to know that Capcom uses DirectX10 to mostly enhance the performance of the game. Lost Planet has 
 been a great experience, and I would recommend it to everyone because it supports bi\oth Windows 
 XP and Vista. It is a great game, but I was sad that Capcom did not make it for the PS2. It woul 
 have been great. Well, what are you waiting for? Run down to your nearest game shop and buy it! 
 Like... NOW! CUZ IT RAWKS DA HOUSE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pako_adrian
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 16, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  I'll start by saying that ALL my remarks will be related to single player ONLY, I haven`t tried 
 out the multi player part of the game so i can not say anything about that. Single player part 
 really impressed me. It was more than an unique experience for me. I mean the graphics and special 
 effects are just mind blowing. I was very pleased with the blur effects in particular, loved the 
 extreme hdr quality and the shear dynamics of the whole graphic part; part witch in fact made me 
 consider this game to be awesome . Beside all this, a good game play and a very nicely made sound 
 consolidates tha game position in my top. Two things are bad : very short single player campaign 
 and a very low replay value. but all in all definitely worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnozgonul
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 15, 2007 3:04 pm PT
Review:  i liked it in a way that it was quite fun to kill all the aliens
  very good texture , there where few unbalanced situations , problems with some of the bosses [ 
 they where too easy , and if you get to right spot , they just cant reach you : ( ]
  i really liked the game , driveing VS was really nice experience , till i boost my system i forgot 
 the same of it . The thing on my elbow anyhow , than my VS pops up these stupid energy cells and 
 i start to fly , flash light . it was really disturbing . ruined the HOLE game , after that i started 
 to feel like i am just watching my VS using the parts it NEVER HAD BEFORE
  
  other than the bad ending the game was fun
  i would rate 8.0 for texture 7.5 for story line 7.5 
 game play but i give 7.0 because of the last battle that i had a VS that MADE NO SENCE
  
  i would recommend to be played at hard or extreme , that way you really need to act fast and makes 
 the game lost more exciting at normal you dont even need to pay much attention to your thermal 
 energy , that makes it boring , so stick with the hard and you will have a good time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 21, 2008 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet from the ground up is an awesome third person shooter! You get to run and gun through 
 a bunch of levels just shooting things.
  
  In Lost Planet you play a snow pirate known as Wayne. Your father is killed by a giant monster 
 known as the Green Eye, which is a giant Akrid which are the creatures on this planet. Wayne sets 
 off on a mission to kill the Green Eye.
  
  The cool things about this game is that the whole object is to run around and shoot things. You 
 fight these weird insect like creatures known as the Akrid and other humans. You get to run around 
 either on foot our in a mech blowing the crap out of these things.
  
  The graphics in Lost Planet are amazing. Everything looks so real like when you fall down in snow, 
 snow get on your clothes. The big things that I thought was cool where the explosions. When things 
 blew up a big puff of fire came out and everything went flying.
  
  The sound in this game sounds really good and pretty realistic.
  
  The one thing that I did 
 not like about this game is that it is really short. There are only eleven levels in the single 
 player that goes by really fast. The multi player is buggy, so there is not a ton of value to this 
 game.
  
  If you want an awesome first person shooter than you should play Lost Planet extreme Condition. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1Bradstar1
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 10, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Oh the wonders of Lost Planet, When first getting a game you expect it to be like you want it to 
 be, as portrayed by the media. When first playing this game I did actually feel excited about it. 
 With such a frantic beggining you feel that jist of excitment you've been expecting but then you 
 realise wait a minute whats going on here, what happened? Thtas where microsoft get gooood, they 
 get you straight into the battle and wondering whats happened??!! and then after you are led to 
 the normal pace of a storyline, slow and steady but still emence destruction you take your path 
 into the Akrid unknown (also what is up with Akrid they have some serious glowing ass problems 
 right?!!) . I found the game pretty easy for my standards but that didnt put me off at all, the 
 explosion graphics were pretty amazing, which in turn makes you want to BLOW MORE STUFF up, its 
 blantent persuasiveness into lusting you into their pride and joy and then you getting that satisfactory 
 feel about yourself because that thing is probably dead now and you used a big ass rocket to kick 
 its ass!!! Overall, its an awesome game which has awesome graphics and some great ideas for futuristic 
 technology. I give it an 8 caz it is a let down when you start losing HEAT stuff really fast and 
 that what makes it too hard in some cases (if you dont know, u have an energy source to keep alive 
 and you have to collect it, it runs out fast with the higher difficulty!!) so thats it!! PEACE 
 OUT PEOPLE KEEP WITH THE GAMING!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BambooStudios
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 30, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  The Good: - Huge memorable boss fights that are reminiscent of the huge boss fights from Super 
 Metroid (not to say this game is like any metroid game though) .
  - Incredible Graphics that look and perform better now than they did at launch
  - Great animation 
 - the movement of the characters, VS Mech suits, effects, everything, it all has very distinctive 
 and very high quality movement - in other words, they didn't just make the still frame look good, 
 but the moving frame aswell
  - Great variety of enemies, weapons, VS mechs/vehicles, environments
  - Game and levels load 
 very quickly; the game also closes down very quickly.
  - Extremely fun final boss fight (didn't really match the style of the rest of the game too well 
 but it was damn cool)
  
  The Bad:
  - Only one set of onscreen instructions for menus and in the game. Essential items include keyboard 
 referrences where the demo didn't but there is still a lot of little things here and there that 
 only refer to the Xbox360 controller, usually you can just click on these items with the mouse 
 though so I don't see what the big deal is.
  - Pretty damn demanding. This game will make you want a new rig, even if you already have a decent 
 one.
  - A tad shallow. This game is pretty much just shoot your way through; there isn't a whole lot 
 to think about.
  - The story doesn't help the single player game much; it would have been pretty much just as fun 
 with no cutscenes or story which is too bad cause they looked great, were just the right length 
 and occurred every level.
  - Some of the character designs were kinda lame
  - Driver problems here and there may cause the game to crash, especially in DirectX10 mode and 
 even if everything is up to date... or maybe it's just me.
  
  Ok, so I can't rate the multiplayer I havn't played it yet; I hear it's broken. That's too bad 
 if it is but this game had a great single player campaign in my opinion so it was still worth it. 
 I think now after some patches it's better than the 7 it got. When I first played the demo it ran 
 poorly, featured no keyboard instructions, and DirectX10 did nothing to help it. When the game 
 was released it performed only a bit better than the demo but keyboard equivilents were added to 
 most of essential in-game instructions. After some updates though I would say Lost Planet is performing 
 and looking better than it did at launch. In fact, if you turn off motion blur (which you may find 
 annoying anyway) you can get some pertty good framerates out of this game without needing a quad-core 
 or dual 8800's. Even still, a single 8800GTX and Dual Core CPU take a pounding from the directX10 
 fur effect on some of the larger creatures, though the effect is amazing.
  
  Anyway, I said about as much good as bad about it so far but I'm giving Lost Planet an 8 because: 
 1. The boss fights remind me of Super Metroid boss fights. 2. I have an Xbox360 gamepad I use with 
 my PC and I want more games like this one! Some types of games are just better with a gamepad and 
 it's a nice change of pace to have some games for PC with full gamepad support.
  3. The requirement that you need to be connected to steam in order to play single player doesn't 
 bother me, in fact I prefer it to requiring a disc to play. Getting up, getting the disc, putting 
 it in the PC, then double clicking... is 'hard', simply double clicking cuts down on all that heavy 
 lifting, it's 'easy'. 4. Personally I'm able to overlook/workaround some of the technical bugs 
 in this game; but if you're not I'd still recommend the Xbox360 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: signum201
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 27, 2007 3:03 am PT
Review:  Nothing new .. the visuals are overall great .... the physics is ok... the characters are well 
 defined but I for one didn't find it very interesting just by playing the demo.... A nice shooter 
 ... nice bugs ... nice machines but nothing more .... and not to mention that the snow effect is 
 stupidly made... I mean you can't see anything in front of you and I really didn't hear any wind 
 blowing :D. The main bugs are easily to kill once you have discovered the weak spots which becomes 
 a little bit automatic after a while... A draw back is also the fact that you can't collect any 
 weapons when controlling the robots ... A plus is the climbing part that I liked :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lev_six
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 10:02 pm PT
Review:  If you are a big fan of old games where you get to kill a boss with a huge health bar every level, 
 this is the game for you. The plot makes it seem even more like an early Nintendo console game 
 because it makes little sense. It makes you wonder if something was lost when it was translated 
 from Japanese. At least, that's how it feels.
  
  If you like 1989 arcade style bosses where you have to jump around like Donkey Kong from point 
 A to B to C to B to C to A to C to B while firing at the boss's left eye 200 times, and only when 
 at point C, you'll love this one!
  
  The graphics are downright beautiful and done amazingly well. Aside from it being a pretty example 
 of direct X 10, it does not have a lot to offer. I'd never recommend buying this game. Even for 
 bargain bin sized dollars. Thankfully, it came bundled with my graphics card otherwise I'd be pretty 
 p. o.'d. The PC version feels like more of an after thought. This is confirmed by the fact that 
 they didn't bother to take out the tip screens showing an Xbox controller. Hit the left button 
 to do this or the square button to do that are some of the great tips you'll get, complete with 
 a picture of the controller.
  
  You have to tap keys fast to activate things. If you are the kind of person who likes to play bop 
 the weasel on the head style toddler arcade games, you may also like this. There's plenty of opportunity 
 to hit a single key over and over again.
  
  The way that you have to interact with weapons and vehicles is just plain sloppy, if not annoying.
 
  
  As if it were not arcade style anough, you are constantly running your levels against a clock. 
 The clock represents an energy source that powers your character and vehicles. You can gather little 
 pellets a la Pac Man by killing mobs and destroying things. The counter constantly speeds downard 
 toward 0 and picking up an energy pellet ( thermal energy ) will add a little time.
  
  I'm not a big fan of this kind of thing. At all. If you are, you might really enjoy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Underground27
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  the graphics in this game are amazing but the story doesnt really make sense. the 3rd person shooting 
 works well which is why this game is still ok . some parts of the game seem overly difficult and 
 other parts seem way too easy so the difficulty level varies.. there isnt much of a variety of 
 weapons to choose from either. its campaign is very short and it doesnt give you much of a feeling 
 of accomplishment when it. its worth the buy for serious gamers but if you're just looking for 
 some fun, this would be better off as just a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steve_dude10
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 11, 2007 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Lost planet is a overall good game. It does not excel in any area, except at look pretty damn good, 
 but I still found that i was satifiyed with my purchase.
  
  The single player is pretty fun, with you having to battle TONS aliens, and you will also encounter 
 MASSIVE aliens, which, battleing these freaks of nature is the highlight of the campaign. If your 
 looking for a good story, look else where. The game characters (except for wayne, which you play) 
 feel like they came out of a kids show such as a lamer version of the power rangers (The power 
 rangers were cool though... back in the day :P) . One huge dislike I have with the games single 
 player is the final boss. The game changes the whole gameplay mechanic and he's as hard as hell 
 to beat.
  
  The multiplayer of lost planet is decent, but it's often filled with very fustrating moments. I 
 find (personally) that the aiming for close combat seems a lil rough and that your hits will not 
 register often. Also, close combat fights just turn into roll-shoot fights, which seems like it 
 lacks any real skill to kill someone at close range. At long distance sniper fights, these problems 
 seem to disappear, which most likely explains why I find the best battles being over long distances. 
 Others notes are that the game seems to control very... different. I recommend for you to download 
 the demo (provided you have XBL) and see if you like them. One cool thing thats within the game 
 thats kind different, gameplay wise, is your little claw. You don't jump in this game, but you 
 have a claw thing that can pull you up places. This thing is the coolest thing within the game, 
 as it allows you to move around areas of different highest very easily. It also allows you to do 
 neat things such as clawing a mech and trying to shoot them out of it.
  
  Anyways, a pretty decent game. I'm not sure if you should pick it up around this time of publiscation 
 of this review (sept 11 07) since better games are on the horizon,, i suggest that if you liked 
 the demo of lost planet, and if you see it at around $30CND to give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MRXwee
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 6, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  A Fantastic graphics and cool game. People who like creative or cool things will find this game 
 fun. Most of the bosses are the challenging parts of this game. Personally like the bosses, especially 
 the Akrids' . This game overall is good, the graphics, sounds effects, controls... one problem 
 is the camera, it will get very confusing when the situation is messy. Sometimes can't see where 
 you are or aiming whenever something like Akrids crashing at you. One thing, not all people could 
 play this game well i think, it requires fast react and sensitive players to be able to handle 
 some handy situations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luciotss
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 4, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  Lost Planet (PC) ganhar&aacute; atualiza&ccedil;&atilde; o e novos mapas
  da Reda&ccedil;&atilde; o
  
  Veja galeria Na pr&oacute; xima quinta-feira (16) , a vers&atilde; o 
 para PC de Lost Planet ganhar&aacute; uma atualiza&ccedil;&atilde; o voltada ao DirectX10, mas que 
 tamb&eacute; m adicionar&aacute; v&aacute; rias melhorias ao sistema de bate-papo e &agrave; s salas 
 do multiplayer.
  
  No mesmo dia, chega tamb&eacute; m os quatro mapas disponibilizados para Xbox 360 no terceiro pacote 
 de conte&uacute; do ser&aacute; lan&ccedil; ado gratuitamente no PC, em um arquivo de 400MB. Paralelamente, 
 o conte&uacute; do tamb&eacute; m passa a ser gr&aacute; tis para o console da Microsoft.
  
  O download da atualiza&ccedil;&atilde; o, por sua vez, ser&aacute; autom&aacute; tico, e tem como 
 objetivo utilizar melhor os recursos do DirectX10, como o Geometry Shader, que aperfei&ccedil; oa 
 a qualidade visual.
  
  Lan&ccedil; ado primeiro para Xbox 360, Lost Planet foi desenvolvido pela mesma equipe de Onimusha 
 3 . O cen&aacute; rio &eacute; um planeta gelado e o enredo narra o embate entre os piratas do gelo, 
 que usam uma roupa especial, chamada de VS (Vital Suit) , para sobreviver em condi&ccedil;&otilde; es 
 extremas, e os habitantes nativos do planeta, os Acrids. O protagonista &eacute; um jovem encontrado 
 congelado e que perdeu a mem&oacute; ria. Tudo que ele lembra &eacute; da morte de seu pai e do 
 assassino, um Acrid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zircom
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 31, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Usually when you receive a free game with your graphics card its only good for a few hours of 
 play before you toss it in a corner. While not without its bugs and quirks, this game came as a 
 pleasant surprise with plenty of heart pounding action. Like a hi-res love child between Starship 
 Troopers and Metal Gear the gameplay and graphics are amazing, but even with the best rig in the 
 world it will tax your system. Short but extremely sweet; this game will wet your appetite for 
 DirectX 10 games to come.
  
  The game starts out by giving you some back story and provides a very brief tutorial. In this short 
 mission you learn about the frozen planet where the game takes place and your enemy, the Akrid. 
 This is where it feels most like Starship Troops. Why do you fight the Akrid? These bug like creatures 
 are pretty much just in the way, but in the process of fighting them, humans learn that their bodies 
 contain a valuable fuel source. So the humans start a war for fuel and planetary domination. And 
 get their butts kicked. That is until the invention of the VS which is a Metal Gear like mech suit 
 that does a great job at killing the Akrid, but also uses massive amounts of thermal energy, which 
 actually prolongs the war against the bugs. Mission after mission you blast your way through invested 
 corridors and snowy fields, crafted around a plot for revenge with a few clever twists along the 
 way. While over dramatic, the story line is fairly unique, and provides a nice contrast to the 
 hi-tech visuals and mind blowing action.
  
  So just how good are the graphics? I recommend you crank the resolution down a little bit and turn 
 up the lighting and texture filtering, as well as making sure you select the DirectX 10 fur feature, 
 which is really the only difference between DirectX 9. The cut scenes use the in-game engine but 
 are some of the most advanced I have ever seen. Particles effects, especially snow and fire are 
 breathtaking and the map sizes rival other similar action games such as Halo. Light, shadows, and 
 cloth textures all look amazing, but make you crave for more. Crysis here I come!
  
  I havent tried the multiplayer although this seems to be an issue for others, but I do have a 
 few complaints of my own. Because it is an Xbox 360 port, the instructions and controls and tailored 
 to the gamepad, not the keyboard, and the camera controls are sometimes choppy especially when 
 using the mechs and vehicles. The biggest annoyance though is that it is easier to bypass the enemies 
 and head straight to the boss level then it is to stand and fight. The A. I. is dumb, but will keep 
 spawning and only drain your ammo and shields. Trying to fight everything will only prolong the 
 mission without gaining you anything as well as making the game a lot harder then it needs to be.
 
  
  Overall, this game is a refreshing shooter that nicely showcases next generation graphics. An engaging 
 story with strong action sequences make it a surprising pleasure that is more then worth buying. 
 Unless you have the chance to receive it free with a piece of hardware. Its not perfect, but its 
 nice to see that action games are still progressing on all fronts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: longbow333
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 29, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Te storyline is boring, de gameplay is nothing impressive, just ok, graphics really good, JUST 
 OK for me. So jappanese, so capcom, I didnt like it at all, the only thing that i loved were de 
 graphics, the menu is poor and bad designed, too much PC needed for this game, run in a C2D 6320, 
 2gb Gskill DDR2 800, 8800GTS 320mb, and didnt run fantastic, all high really low Fps. just not 
 ok for me.
  
  Better try Bioshok, medal of honor airbone and world in conflict, those are good games optimized 
 for PC's, really well-worked and with high definition of graphics, see ya 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ramysaid
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2007 8:26 pm PT
Review:  I just LOVE that game, i wish if there is a 2nd part of it, the story line is not so good but it 
 is still for me one of the best games i have played, its so fun playing, the only thing that i 
 didnt like about the game is that its really so short, only 11 levels ? thats really short. hope 
 they start doing the 2nd part of it already by now. just waiting for that. i had F. E. A. R , C&amp; C 
 3, S. T. A. L. K. E. R, DIRT and LOST PLANET and the most i loved was lost planet, capcom always have 
 a way in making a good gameplay in each of its games. hope u like it too like i did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TUnified
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 11:04 pm PT
Review:  I was cought up in the hype when the Xbox version was released. It was largely hailed, and when 
 the PC version was announced I was quite excited. So when I finally installed the game and got 
 my first glimpse of the Akrid, I was quite amazed at the graphics. It was shocking and terrifying 
 for a brief few minutes, and then it turned into frustration.
  
  I died 13 times in just the opening gameplay sequence, you never know what you are supposed to 
 do. There are no arrows, no HUD indicators, only voices coming from nowhere telling you to do stuff 
 or go somehwere but you have no idea where to go.
  
  It's also a little bit annoying that some great scripted sequences are BEHIND you instead of in 
 front of you where you can see them. In the myriad of times that I died in the first part I managed 
 to get a glimpse behind me to see a huge monster (Green Eye) crash through a huge building. And 
 you can't move the camera when your character is fumbling about from a massive tremor, or getting 
 knocked down, so it was very frustrating sometimes when some fast enemies would come around and 
 knock you down constantly.
  
  Gameplay: Very annoying, the HUD map tells you enemies and items, NOTHING ELSE! So, in the middle 
 of a blizzard you just might accidently fall off of a cliff, or wander around in circles. Fighting 
 enemies is a chore, there are quick and stupid enemies requiring just a few hits, and there are 
 big enemies that require a few dozen clips while slowly backing away, and massive enemies that 
 require everything you've got while getting knocked down while trying to back away. There are also 
 cut scenes that get in the way of some any fun gameplay. While they are cool to watch, you feel 
 like the only thing you are here to do is point and shoot.
  
  Sound: Excellent sound, big booms, alien cries, massive enemies sound massive. Rare music only 
 comes out when guns are blazing, so you can barely hear it. Most of the audible music is during 
 cut scenes.
  
  Graphics: Awesome graphics, I had a hard time telling if the opening sequence was a movie or the 
 game engine, and it was the game engine. Up close though, the textures don't hold up.
  
  Bottom Line: If the first impression is what counts, Lost Planet left a bad taste in my mouth. 
 May be worth a bargain-bin buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dfk4eva
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  The only that is good in this game are the graphics but even that requires so much. I can run Bioshock 
 with everything high and no lag. But Lost planet there is so much lag. I have a vista home premium 
 with AMD X2 4400+ dual core, 2 gigs of ram, 8800 GTS 320 mb, I would not recommend this game to 
 anybody. Trust me do not waste your money because even if you can run it the gameplay still is 
 not good at all, its been done already, Rogue trooper was better then this. No disrespect to Capcom 
 but this is defenitley not your best work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johneese
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 21, 2007 8:14 pm PT
Review:  I first played Lost Planet on 360, and i was blown away by the graphics, but when i tried to play 
 the demo, i was very disapointed. First, i couldnt even play it! Apperantly my GPU was to crappy, 
 (Radeon X1300) and i has 13-12 frames on the very lowest settings. I was very disappointed.... 
 And sad : (. But! i Did buy a new GPU shortly after, (GeForce 8600 GT 256 Mb) and i could run it 
 on high-medium settings, with average frames at 45-40, Which is pretty good. I have a Pentium4 
 @ 3.0 Ghz x2 1 Gig DDR2 ram. So youll need a pretty good rig to make it look and play kik ass. 
 Anyways, The game is very fun, the begging intro level has you running for your life from green 
 eye , a huge slug-like Akrid. It is very intense, the music and graphics (even on med.) look great, 
 and makes for a kik ass experience. The game has a anime-like feel, which i hated. I am NOT a fan 
 of anime, and didnt like the over use of hand gestures, and the very emotion driven cutscenes. 
 The game is fairly short, and online support is weak (play on 360 for a true taste of LP online) 
 Which gives it small replay value, but it partly makes up for it from its huge akrid boss battles, 
 and sweet VS mech fights. A good game for only $39.99. A Recommended buy if your rig can handle 
 it, and you love fast action shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 6, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  Just got this game yesterday...
  
  First Impression:
  
  The first half an hour I played this game I thought to myself god did I just throw away some $$$ 
 
  
  But after the initial opening level, Holy Cr*p! This game is fun!!
  
  Maybe its because I have been playing slower tactical shooters lately because the non stop blasting 
 and run and gun is incredible.
  
  For starters, DX10 is pretty darn nice... this game is no Crysis, but it does show some of the incredible 
 things to come in DX10 games. (although I still cant figure out why they cant get character speech 
 to match the mouth movement...) The environments are almost picture like, and the cut scenes are 
 well done. The characters are a bit to cliche, but it could be worse.
  
  The controls are a piece of cake to learn and its one of those games that pretty much anyone can 
 grab a controller and in 5 minutes be firing away. If you dont have an XBox 360 controller for 
 pc, use some type of gamepad, this game became much more fun once I started using my Logitech Gamepad.
 
  
  Although I only had time to play for a couple hours, I just dont understand how this game got such 
 a low rating from Gamespot... maybe it gets worse, but for now, I recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RelXe
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 6, 2007 3:12 am PT
Review:  The graphics in this game are amazing, although i could not see any difference between the dx9 
 and dx10 version ( maybe because i played dx10 for 95% of the time ) . The gameplay is also almost 
 perfect. Can't complain about anything. The way everything runs so smooth and direct.
  On the other hand, there ARE a couple of things that could be better.
  For instance; the game 
 should be more clear about how to defeat some of the creature. Second of all; Havn't got the chance 
 to play online... it just doesn't work somehow. And third; It's real messy how they've displayed 
 the Xbox360 controller with every other VS you step into.
  But overall, the graphics and gameplay count for the most of it. Good game :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siiixon
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 29, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  this game runs on my rig with is upper-medium dual3.1 2gig 6600gt XP (not vista) on high resolution 
 and high setting decent  I get fairly good frame / second at stunning quality, the 90% destroyable 
 environment and hand able difficulty level are also a plus, this game have the best grafix at time 
 of release day on any game already released, not even graws and vegas are a match especially considering 
 how fast it is compared to those, game play is entertaining and not to hard nor to easy, negatives 
 are that there are no cheat codes, multi player mode is a joke (not even worth mentioning) and 
 the BIG (bosses) enemies are not to hard but annoying, except the fr3king snake) , I mean its a 
 bit stupid that a big rolling alien is rolling all over the place, it just do not look cool  that 
 could been better executed, how ever the levels between the boss parts are amaising, gamespot rewiew 
 put that this game is win able in 30minutes LOL the guy is exadurating or he has supernatural gamming 
 skills, i played many times 30 minutes alreday and i'm nowhere even close to the end, so I highly 
 recommend this SINGLE PLAYER game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Human_Flaw
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 26, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  Strengths:
  
  Gameplay is simplistic, but superb. This is a third person shoot'em up and there is no shortage 
 of targets. This is a console-based game, so the use of a game pad for the PC is mandatory to experience 
 the game the way the developers intended. Being a port this means the game is made for the Xbox 
 360 controller that can be used on a PC with a free USB port. Enemy AI is adequate. Sometimes they 
 react better than AI found in other, more complex (realism based) games. If you kill somebody, 
 their comrades will seek the nearest cover. Other times, however, they just stand there and let 
 the player kill them, regardless. At least, they don't run blindly at the player like the AI in 
 most other shooters. The developers at least tried to position the AI where real soldiers would 
 be stationed (roof tops; near cover; patrolling in groups; using giant mechs for support; etc) .
 
  
  The enemy AI is showcased mostly in the giant bugs ( Akrids ) the player encounters in the game. 
 They use simplistic movement and tactics, but still present enough of a challenge even on the normal 
 difficulty level. The boss battles in particular are very challenging until you discover the weakness 
 of the boss creature and exploit it to its fullest.
  
  The atmosphere, production values, sound design and art direction are A-Level. This game does not 
 skimp on visuals -- either in-game or the cutscenes. The good news is on medium to high-end systems 
 the game performs flawlessly and produces very stable and consistently high frame rates.
  
  Weaknesses:
  
  The SP campaign is very short. This should take the average gamer 8 to 10 hours 
 to complete on normal difficulty. The actual story line isn't very original, but does have scripted 
 moments involving humans or Akrid that remind the player of other great science fiction stories 
 like Dune , or Star Wars .
  
  The game play itself, while good, can get very tedious and repetitive. As stated, this is a third 
 person shooter and it lives up to its name. Don't expect to see, or use any real world tactics 
 at all. The game was designed to be an escapist arcade-style game from the ground up. The game 
 sometimes will resort to cheating to defeat a good player just to prolong the experience. The biggest 
 flaw is the game does not allow the player to cut animation sequences short. Animations for their 
 character's actions must cycle through once they are started.
  
  The game exploits this because enemies are programmed with much faster or non-existent cycles. 
 This is highlighted in the many boss battles. Boss creatures main form of defense is to knock the 
 player (in their Mech) down and pummel them with all sorts of offensive weapons (ice blocks; fire; 
 ice breath; etc) . Once the player is knocked down it takes three to four seconds to cycle through 
 the animation of getting back up before the player has regained control... And by this time the 
 boss monster is already pummeling the player again which starts the cycle of animations all over. 
 This is a cheap and exploitive (lazy) design that turns what would be very fast boss battles into 
 tedious exercises of trial and error. And pure luck sometimes.
  
  Multiplayer isn't that impressive. The simplistic design of the core game and the various MP modes 
 offered will limit prolonged (competitive) play as well as extended casual play.
  
  Overall:
  
  Lost Planet: Extreme Condition is a fun game for anybody who is into science fiction, 
 Japanese Animation and just wants to blow stuff up. The addition of robotic suits (mechs) and giant 
 insects elevates what would otherwise be a mediocre sci-fi shooter.
  
  Players should not go into the game looking for ground-breaking innovation or complex play. If 
 they are aware of this before hand they should enjoy themselves and what the game offers very well. 
 The presentation and overall mechanics are top notch even if they become repetitive and are simplistic 
 in their design. A game pad is a must for this title to truly enjoy it the way it was intended. 
 This game is highly recommended on the basis of its mindless shooting fun and escapist entertainment 
 value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archanid
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 26, 2007 5:57 am PT
Review:  No, dude, seriously, this game was just WAY too short. 11 missions is just not enough for a game 
 which succes fully depends on the singleplayer campaign. Here you are, on some freakin' cold sh! thole 
 planet, killing steroid addicted bugs, fighting some dull army and competing with the 'Snow Pirates', 
 I mean, Who thought of that name?! And near the end of the game, it appears that YOU are a snowpirate 
 too! Why the F. did you have to fight them, then? Okay, to be honest, the story was strong, and 
 made an impression I won't soon forget, but after the tenth mission, they just cut the piece between 
 'a quarter of the story' and 'the end'. Missing a lot here, you know. The graphics where awesome, 
 but the rest was A-Hole . There was very little variety in guns, and also this Mech Robot thing 
 element started to feel an awful lot like Gundam, after a short while. The game's hard to describe, 
 I mean, it's new, innovative, and action packed, but at the same dull, too short and simple minded. 
 So, just check this list, before you spend any money on this game.
  
  The Good:
  
  The Graphics are absolutely AMAZING
  The Mech Suit thing element is worked out good.
  Luca 
 :-)
  The cutscenes are very realistic.
  
  The Bad: A dull story that is a compilation of other game's good parts.
  Completely **** multiplayer.
 
  Ended way too fast, and way too easy.
  Sometimes the framerate in the cutscenes went from smooth, to freakin' choppy.
  Just not worth 
 the money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 25, 2007 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Everyone should be happy that this great developer is bringing their games to the PC .... purely 
 they have the most atmospheric &amp; innovative games off al time like DMC , RE , Lost Planet + 
 others ! Lost Planet is the most beutefull game i'v played on the PC till now i'm not a graphical 
 freak but from what i'v saw i was stunned all the way ... the gameplay of the game is very challlenging 
 if you play it at hier dificulty because every enemy will become more agrressive &amp; the boss 
 battles are more intensense ... you will be surprised when you see how wayne's body react when 
 he jumps are he is hit its just to real ... the mec battles are superb &amp; you will have in different 
 levels a variaty of mech; s for very taste ... i didn't tryied the multiplayer but i'm sure it is 
 great .... i just wanted at first to play it on my 2900 XT to stress the card out &amp; i'm sure 
 you will neet a card like this to play the game properly ... ough i allmost forgot the story wich 
 is a standard story for a sci-fie game with humanity on an alien planet wich depens on survival 
 from the termal energy of the alien race nothing new here but the story is spiced up buy the dialogs 
 &amp; the characters who are very humanlike in emetions ... buy this game you will never regret 
 it ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bagman34
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 20, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet is not going to revolutionize the gaming industry. This game did not break new ground 
 in action games. This game gives you some awesome graphics, solid game play, and enough of a storyline 
 to hold you through to the end of the game. The worst part of this game is that it is pretty short, 
 only 11 levels which take slightly less than 10 hours of playing if your taking you time. I could 
 see people breezing through in much less time. This is a shame because I could have played twice 
 as much and still not been bored. The basic point of the game is that your trying to colonize a 
 planet that already has inhabitants, the akrid, a race of bug like creatures ranging from human 
 size to building size. Your job, of course, is to eradicate them so that humans can live in peace, 
 oh and the fact that they store the only heat on the planet which you desperately need because 
 it is a winter wonderland out there. The thermal energy mechanic of the game was interesting, for 
 if you run out you die, although there was never a lack of thermal energy, so it was rarely a problem. 
 The fun of the game was arming yourself with all sorts of weapons and blasting away at endless 
 bugs, and if that wasn't fun enough, you can hop in a VS (vital suit) which are varied forms of 
 big robots that have big guns that help you destroy akrid even better. The weapons and explosions 
 are loud and big and satisfying. There are many lengthy cut scenes that move the story along and 
 can be interesting to watch, the graphics are very good. Sometimes you almost feel there are more 
 movies than game to Lost Planet. The control instructions still come up in XBOX format, even on 
 the PC, but anyone that has played a few games can figure out the controls and customize them the 
 way they want. The Dolby Digital sound is nice too. The game is worth the money, and a must play 
 for any shooter fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hibikino
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 19, 2007 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet: Extreme Condition was very fun to play at the start. It's unlike anything I've ever 
 played before. Very innovative. It was exciting to explore the environment. Use the grappling rope. 
 Fire away double machine guns with the mech and much more. However, the gameplay started to get 
 boring after you play through 3-4 stages. It becomes very repetitive after awhile. Basically, in 
 one stage, you have to kill as many enemies as possible and collect the Thermal energy to survive. 
 Quickly, search and kill the boss, get outta there, That's it~. The only thing that makes you wanna 
 go through this kind of game is the story. Somehow, I feel that the plot itself is a little broken. 
 As the story continues, the plot becomes very predictable. There isn't very much in-dept about 
 the characters' background either. It feels like they just appear without a proper introduction 
 or how they are connected to the main character. Thanks to the poor English voice-acting, too.
 
  
  The graphics is stunning. The aliens are pretty to look at as they are very well-rendered and detailed. 
 As for the environment is pretty well-rendered too. However, there isn't much of a difference between 
 Dx10 and Dx9 version as I had hoped, though. The sound effect is acceptable but not the poor voice-acting. 
 As for the re-playability, well, after having finished this game, I think I'm going to left it 
 on the shelf to collect dust. The multiplayer mode isn't much of a fun. After all, this game is 
 pretty old for the X-box 360 and there are still issues with the game servers. After all, this 
 game is the first game to support the Dx10 but its aging-engine doesn't really shows what Dx10 
 is capable of. Plus, the poor story and boring gameplay. This game is a total letdown 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stif42
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 19, 2007 4:25 am PT
Review:  Ok, no need to talk about amazings visual effetcs, they are really impressives.
  This is the first next gen game incoming on PC, even if differences between DX9 and DX10 are hard 
 to find. Of course, you'll need some really good hardware to enjoy the game, don't expect playing 
 the game with a 9800pro card. Solo campagne is just fun, linear but really fun because of those 
 VS.
  
  In fact I'd say that the multiplayer mode is the greatest thing of this game.
  Ok, there isn't dedicated servers, no info, etc... but If you join a game then you will enjoy pure 
 pleasure. In the other way, Capcom will publish some extra content like maps, skins...
  
  So wait and see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artistry_
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 16, 2007 12:35 am PT
Review:  Serious fun to be had blasting bugs !! The running feels weighted which is nice, like you're carrying 
 something or actually sloshing through real snow. This is truly beautiful to look at. The ice is 
 almost biting at the screen. Plenty of ammo and thermal energy to be had to see you through each 
 mission happilly. Mechanical suits to power, many types, some very agile. Nice against the really 
 big bugs !! One part where a giant earth worm comes busting out from the ground was just epic in 
 a Dune sort of way minus the spice .. and enter the ice !! Pick this up if you need a quick fix 
 of fun for sure !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sridanu
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 15, 2007 11:05 pm PT
Review:  Lets face it Lost Planet was made to be a Console based game. Its not one of those shooter games 
 made keeping the PC in mind. And although the transfer from Console to PC is pretty good there 
 are some areas of the game that lack the flair that PC shooters bring about.
  
  Lost Planet is a japanise game and it is no surprise that the game involves the use of Robots which 
 is kinda cool but also a bit difficult. It would have been a lot easier if you had a Console Game 
 pad but its a bit of hazard trying to play it with the keyboard.
  
  Overall the graphics, sounds and the storyline along with the movies are excellent. The game play 
 also (Although a bit repetitive) is good enough to keep you entertained. But if you are expecting 
 a shooter game with a bit of adventure and puzzle solving then this is not a game for you. The 
 game is based on testing the players skill against the enemy and nothing else at all. The only 
 puzzles that you need to solve is how to kill the boss enemy at end of each level As it may require 
 several tries before you find out the weakness of the boss. And the fact that its modeled on a 
 console game means that you need to restart at the nearest way point if you happen to die mid way 
 though the mission (Something i always find very annoying)
  
  All in all Its one of those games that you need to try out for the PC. But if you have the option 
 of playing it in XBOX then go for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scvido
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 15, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  Heard lots of things about LOST PLANET so i decided it was time to try it on my Vista ultimate 
 pc. hardware = C2D E6600 @ 3.2ghz o/c , 8800gtx and 2gb ram.
  
  Graphics - Well the graphics are the most striking thing, there are 2 modes, there is DirectX9 
 and DirectX10 (vista) , the DX10 gives this game a much better quality and at times it is outstanding, 
 the animations are well done and the textures are good but the game still feels consoley at best, 
 it shows.
  
  Sound - the sound is very good and immersive, on a good set of 5.1 or even headphones it works 
 best, but what is striking is the dialogs, i love the acting and character voices are outstanding.
 
  
  Gameplay - the game play is a mixed bag to be honest, it is pure action with a few puzzles but 
 while it is real fun to play it gets boring as hell, if it wasn't for the great story and characters 
 cinematic mumbo-jumbo this would've been another Tomb Raider or something, it feels real consoley 
 and no matter how good the audio &amp; video this is still a console game at heart.
  you have to save the world and you do it in big style, it was fun while it lasted.
  
  conclusion?
 
  
  This could've been a much better game but the truth is that Graphics aren't everything if you don't 
 get the gameplay, the game is much better ported than many other games but still feels consoley, 
 it is way too evident.
  
  you will play it for a while then get bored then after a few days you'll come back to it etc...... this 
 isnt a game you want to play for hours, maybe 1 or 2 hours at a time would be better value and 
 more enjoyable.
  
  not the worst game ever but not really as good as some said.
  
  Half-Recommended. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkdesires
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 13, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  Lost planet its an awsome game and I don't understand why people are rating it with fives and sixes, 
 its just doesn't make sense. The game is a visual beauty, you can't find many games with this graphics 
 out there and its one of the first games for DX10, the aliens and environment / design are great. 
 Explosions, walking in the snow... the graphics have all things worked to the very limit. If you 
 have a nice soundcard you will surely enjoy the great sound effects of the game. The campaign can 
 be a little short and the story can be kind of predictable but it will be great while it lasts.
 
  People have been reporting about port errors... I haven't seen nothing, even the controllers are 
 well designed for the PC.
  OK OK, the multiplayer sucks, but guess what... I don't give a damn about multiplayer, so about 
 this I will only say what can't a patch resolve ?
  Why is the Xbox360 version more rated than the PC version when the PC version rocks over the Xbox360? 
 doesn't make much sense...
  The game its great and I recomend it to anyone, but be sure to have a good PC cause you'll need 
 it if you want to see what Lost Planet can do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 13, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  when i took this game from my friend, i said what's been done with dx10, it won't change a lot 
 
  but it was a mistake.
  
  when i saw the first cinematic, i was surprised because of graphics and power of dx10, all the 
 surfaces and all the models are work of art. programmers used all the creativiy of them and designed 
 wonderful characters, atmosphere and encounters.
  
  i've played this 2:30 hours and didn't see a slow fps (i've got an 8600gts)
  
  all the encounters 
 have a weak point so you can kill them easily
  
  being easy and exciting is not let you stop playing. you'll want to finish next mission every time 
 you finish a mission... atmosphere of snow is wonderful and you'll feel the cold in your blood.. 
 i loved the gameplay of that, it's like tomb raider : anniversary and legend. using of VS is easy 
 and you learn easy.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramymedhat83
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 12, 2007 2:24 am PT
Review:  A great game by all means, i've never seen graphics like this and the sound effects are great and 
 the game play is just so wonderful .. i tried it even on a direct x 9 and the game is still amazing 
 and i think it's one of the best games i played this year ,.. but it really needs a powerful graphics 
 card and a core duo 2 processor to get all the effects to work in a good way and still get good 
 performance .. i recommend this game for any game player who wants to have lots of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkscout3000
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 9, 2007 7:07 am PT
Review:  The DX10 graphics is amazing (I do have a good computer to enjoy it :P) the snow looks so real 
 and the effects of explosions are just so cool
  HDR is not exactly my favorite since it hurts my eyes... but it is so smooth in this game compared 
 to others
  I dont know how to put this, but the Graphics is just Amazing
  
  Well, I haven't played very long in Lost Planet, yet I already noticed the frustration from many 
 other players.
  
  First of all, Steam is not exactly my favorite software. Installing Steam is one lousy experience, 
 while keeping it working is another. I detest that Steam has to be 'connected' at all times, since 
 this is just an absurd way of making 'copy protection'. I know there are lots of piracy, but that 
 doesnt mean you should make the game unplayable just because someone dont have a Steam account 
 or unable to connected to the server
  
  Second of all, what is it with Capcom ports and their irresponsible tutorials? You know, not everyone 
 is capable of translating X360 controls into keyboard...
  Looking at the Help screen saying, press A or press Y to dash , and the LB, RB buttons... I really 
 wanted to bash the monitor
  
  Now that's only a couple of the issues with the game.
  
  I didnt experience any technical issues, however there are places where the gameplay is kind of 
 annoying, for example when I fought Green Eye, everytime it punches the ground, I get stuck on 
 the ground not able to move or do anything for a while. and the explosions, they look good but 
 they obscure my view... making me... well... free target...
  
  I've being waiting for this game for a while, I hate to say this, but I am very disappointed with 
 the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragoonvbk
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 8, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Lost Plant looked awesome on the xbox 360 in HD tv, and when i played the pc version, it was if 
 not better looking. However, this where the limitation began, if you have a powerful system, all 
 the little details, like the snow prints when the mechs walk over them or when you blow barrels 
 up, this quite tasking on the system. However, even in minimum setting, the little details are 
 there, but wind and shadowing effect a take a hit. The xbox controls picks up automatically for 
 the game and work great, i sometimes use the control for tight situations, because it allows me 
 to faster. Have a dpi changing mouse will help for those that trouble aiming and do not want to 
 keeping the sensitivity of the mouse in the menu, i find that lower dpi are great for sniping while 
 regular or fast for shooting. Overall i thought it was a great game and one that i am very happy 
 with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whiteboard91
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 8, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  I'm basing this review on the simple fact that steam is annoying. For those dial-up users out there 
 (unlucky!) it is a considerable inconvenience having to connect to the internet every time you 
 want to play a single-player offline game. As for other titles who now run on steam, such as the 
 Half Life series (my fav games) , these re-published versions are being ruined by the fact that 
 you have to connect to the internet to play, then run the risk of the game crashing at any moment 
 if your internet connection fails. To add to that, I found it was a complete pain trying to install 
 Half Life 2, and all the others that came in the pack with it, on steam; I then had to wait 3 days 
 for it to actually manage to connect to a steam server to update the games before I could actually 
 play them. OK, it's only 3 days - not a lifetime, but it's damn annoying when you bring home a 
 fantastic new game and find that its going to be a complete **** just to start up!
  So yeah, a great game (although perhaps a bit short) has it's glory dimmed by the 's-t-e-a-m' word. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozcetinilker
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 7, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  when i took this game from my friend, i said what's been done with dx10, it won't change a lot 
 
  but it was a mistake.
  
  when i saw the first cinematic, i was surprised because of graphics and power of dx10, all the 
 surfaces and all the models are work of art. programmers used all the creativiy of them and designed 
 wonderful characters, atmosphere and encounters.
  
  i've played this 2:30 hours and didn't see a slow fps (i've got an 8600gts)
  
  all the encounters 
 have a weak point so you can kill them easily
  
  being easy and exciting is not let you stop playing. you'll want to finish next mission every time 
 you finish a mission... atmosphere of snow is wonderful and you'll feel the cold in your blood.. 
 i loved the gameplay of that, it's like tomb raider : anniversary and legend. using of VS is easy 
 and you learn easy.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithy1983uk200
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 6, 2007 2:14 am PT
Review:  the problem with LP is that its just to short, a few hours worth of gameplay just aint worth it. 
 sure the gfx look great but a evenings work and its done. missions are short but with a nice boss 
 fight but even then its mission aint different normally involving killing as many bad guys as possible 
 then a boss where you just have to hit the weak spots to kill it (apart from the mech fight)
  
  in a way its kind of an old school run and gunner
  
  to short with the lack of different 
 missions makes this game a big disappointment 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KuLiKo
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 5, 2007 5:26 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 9/10 I think it's OK... yeah... I accept it's very fun... but I think it's missing something... and 
 I don't know too T_T
  
  Graphics 10/10 This is Next-Gen Graphics of the game of PC ever than I play.... It's Very nice... nice 
 !!! (I'm Mad -.-) This game is THE FIRST NEXT-GEN Game of PC... but It cost with a NICE PC too... I 
 think if you have Dual-Core Processor . 7900GS/X1950pro Graphic cards or better and RAM about 2GB... you 
 will get the BEST EXPERIENCE for this game (or other games -.-) ... and I think It's better if it 
 along with more nice gameplay lol~..
  
  Sound 9/10
  
  yeah... I know it's Dolby digital surround... but everyone told me XBox360 is good than PC -.- Value 
 8/10
  
  This game was invest more than Gear of war... I think it's not worthy of money... but It's worthy 
 if you play !!!
  
  Tilt 10/10
  
  Why is it 10/10? I will tell you... Because I LOVE THIS GAME !!! This game make my PC better performance 
 than Rainbow Six Vegas... but can make graphics better than it... I LOVE YOU LOST PLANET lol~ (I'm 
 mad)
  
  Thank you for read through man !!! this is my first reviews... you can Recommended me in My E-mail... because 
 I'm not STRONG IN ENGLISH T_T... Thank you again... see you until CRYSIS is out lol~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreddlock907
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 5, 2007 2:22 am PT
Review:  Review of the PC VERSION of the game:
  
  The game is set in the future on the ice world of E. D. N. III, a once prospering colony of earth 
 and humanity, now overrun with aliens called the Akrid and ice pirates. Gameplay 9/10
  One thing that I have to say about this game is that it is very immersive - from the intro, to 
 the playable part of the intro where the game eases you into the controls and kicks off the story 
 and through all the missions you accomplish, this game never loses pace.
  The controls are easy to learn and using standard WASD and mouse controls you steer your character, 
 young Wayne, through the icy world of EDN III. The most remarkable thing about this game is that 
 it really is an action game. In many modern action games - and don't get me wrong, I do like these 
 other games aswell - it is left up to the player to play the game at a pace that he or she chooses. 
 Most games try to force a gaming speed onto the player by using vast amounts of scripted sequences 
 or making the levels self-running , meanging all the character can do is steer and shoot. LPEC 
 goes a different way: the player has two different health displays. One is the chracters life-bar 
 and the other is the so called heat shield - although they have different names they both basically 
 do the same thing: keep you alive. The notable thing however is, that you constantly lose health/heat 
 due to the freezing temperatures and have to constantly replenish yourself by gathering up heat 
 energy that is dropped by killed enemies. By using a very simple principle the game urges you to 
 keep on the move and seek out and engage your enemies. To do so the game offers a lot of weapons, 
 such as the standard machine gun, a shotgun, energy weapons and rocket launchers - and let's not 
 forget crazily oversized anime style weapons, such as the huge gatling gun. You can carry a maximum 
 of two weapons at a time and have to choose which ons to lug around with you. The enemies are all 
 very well done, from evil ice pirates to hideous insecty aliens that burst from out of the snow 
 - all of them have believable weaknesses such as the heat storage of the aliens - a glowing spot 
 which is extremely vulnerable to your fire. The tactical part is that these spots tend to be farthest 
 away from you and to get to them you need to get through an angry alien first. The fights range 
 from easy versus the small ones to incredibly tough versus boss enemies.
  The buildup is linear, but very well done and seldomly boring.
  
  Graphics 10/10 You may think 
 you've seen many great games and know your way around special effects, but I doubt you've ever 
 seen anything like the smoke and other effects in this game.
  The clouds of smoke billow beautifully, the explosions are really powerful and the snow simply 
 looks ... well like snow, but thats the whole point of it really.
  The character designs range from anime inspired characters to the great aliens and the ice pirates, 
 however all of them are extremely well done and look stunning. Especially in the game graphic cut 
 scenes you get to see the power of the facial animations - very, very lifelike.
  The surroundings on EDN III are equally awesome, the lost cities are filled with details such as 
 road signs, corpses of wars from long ago and car wrecks buried in the snow.
  You leave footsteps, motion blurs, bullets tears holes into everything and the gusting wind adds 
 to the experience - overall the game is graphically top notch - especially using Direct X 10.
 
  
  Sound 9/10 The sound is not very notable, however solid and hardly has weaknesses. The music is 
 orchstral and driving like it should, weapons boom like they should, the aliens scream like they 
 should, the pirates yell like they should and the wind howls like it should - no errors here, but 
 nothing spectacular either.
  
  Value 9/10 A very good action game with nasty aliens, evil pirates and a cool setting, might be 
 quite short with only 12 missions, but better short and good than long and boring ... or something 
 like that. The value of this game is good, if you like shooty-type action games and like Fallout-like 
 settings then what is there to consider? Go get the game and enjoy EDN III !
  
  Reviewer's Tilt 10/10
  Being a huge fan of the Fallout series and this game being a Fallout in 
 the snow I loved running around EDN III - so the reviewers tilt of course is 10 out of 10. If you 
 like action games, can get yourself to like the setting and enjoy fast paced non stop action, then 
 you can't go wrong on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkyrie_44
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 3, 2007 10:44 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Pretty decent, No grapahical anomalies, and game runs at a decent FPS in DX9 mode. I 
 did not try the game in DX10 just due to the fact, I am not using a DX10 card. Some visuals are 
 expansive, and the detail on the bugs you fight are very well done.
  
  The enviroments and lighting are spot on, and the explosions are robust. I have not had any problems 
 with slow downs in the heat of battle when the battlefield is littered with explosions and enemies, 
 which in some occassions you do encounter.
  
  Sound: Audio even in Vista is very robust, and if you happen to be using 5.1 you can tell audibly 
 the direction where the fire is coming from. The cutscenes and the voice acting are spot on, and 
 doesn't seem tagged on.
  
  Gameplay:
  Using the X360 controller or the mouse keyboard offers a good experience neither one of them diminshes 
 from the experience of play. Some of the VS's (mechs) react a little slow, but noting that they 
 are probably not built like a Japenese Mobile suit, and the fact being knee deep in snow doesn't 
 help the VS movements either.
  
  The snow should also be taken into account in this case as well for the sometime slow movements 
 of the character you play as out of suit, he is noticibly hindered in major snow covered areas. 
 The weapons in the game are pretty nice, and do offer a nice nice feel in either control configuration. 
 Target aquisition is fast, with mouse I will note I do notice an advantage. If you are one of those 
 that are hinderedin this department I suggest either checking your FPS, or turning up your mouse 
 sensitivity. My Raze Diamondback allows me on the fly tuning, but I haven't had to utilize it yet 
 in this game.
  
  Technical:
  The downfall on release is the multiplayer, initially I was unable to get into a game now I am. 
 Most of the servers are pretty stable, and the gameplay is pretty nice. It runs on Vista 64bit 
 edition very nicely.
  
  I do not notice any control issues, and using the keyboard, and mouse in this game offers a very 
 good if not better experience to that of the X360 controller. Having the X360 controller full functionaility 
 there on the side is a nice add, which in the end doesn't hinder the mechanics or the gameplay 
 one bit.
  
  The issue about being required to be online , that would not be entirely true. You can play this 
 title offline, you are required to activate online by Steam, and when you play the game Steam must 
 be running in the background. Steam can be in offline mode which is simple as going to Steam &gt; 
 file &gt; Go Offline...
  
  So you are not required to play Lost Planet online, like many would lead you on to believe. If 
 anything I do not see this as a game defiency, but just something to do with Steam itself. Technically, 
 I do not see many faults, and most faults noted by other reviewers with the exception of the MP 
 issues, are either cosmetic (ala X360 controller diagram) , or the game being in 3rd person. If 
 there are problems, so far it is with those reviewing off the demo, which isnot sporting at all. 
 Reviewers are trying to run this game at settings incompatable with their computer, or they are 
 running drivers, notably Nvidia's which at this moment in time for both Vista and XP are rubbish.
 
  
  Overall Impressions:
  I have got my entertainment out of this game , its a quick game to get into the single player is 
 short, but it ties in well to the game. In comparison to most games I play this game actually has 
 more singleplayer options than most others.
  
  In multiplayer I could've used more content. The maps of couse are spartan being that you are in 
 desolation, but adding more player capacity I think would've greatly benefitted this title. With 
 it being a Steam based title kind of throws me off, I am not really a big fan of it, and since 
 this is another title from the X360 the title would've better used in the Windows Live environment. 
 I am aware that it would've put off quite a few of the Windows XP brethren, but it just didn't 
 feel right having this title associated with Steam. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B0ingMan
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 3, 2007 8:17 pm PT
Review:  In Lost Planet the sheer size and complexity of the alien models and their unique, varied styles 
 of play and design are enough to give this game a big gold star, add to that the incredible graphics 
 and you're already set for a good game.
  You know the second you've even started that it's a console port from the 360, with Xbox buttons 
 and Controls shown in game to describe the controls, this can be confusing at times, trying to 
 work out which buttons do what, but once you've got the hang of it, the controls are fairly easy 
 to use and can be customised in the options.
  Sound in the game is obviously (and quite poorly) dubbed from the original version, this does detract 
 from the cutscenes a fair bit, but it doesn't inhibit the story in any way.
  
  Impressive gameplay and Graphics with a large array of weapons, enemies and vehicles make this 
 game definitely worth a play on your new 8800GTX, i played on DX9 with 2x7900GTX 512mb cards and 
 held 30FPS, might not sound like much but the game ran really smooth, i didn't notice any visible 
 lag on 1280x1024 resolution. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magusat999
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 6, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  My original review, which 7 users agreed with is this:
  
  My review is totally based on the fact that in order to play this otherwise extraordinary game, 
 a person has to admit Big Brother to hawkeye them the whole time. That very fact is enough for 
 me to pass on the game. I'm not interested in playing under surviellance - or shelling out $500-600 
 for a new XBOX 360/Elite just to play it without being monitored. I was looking forward to this 
 title since the first press release, and am very disappointed after hearing this alarming factoid. 
 I hope they come out with a patch that removes that feature, so people like me - who have had enough 
 of being monitored, censored, and limited, can enjoy this great game.
  
  Today I am adding this, after playing it for a couple hours - probably not to ever start it up 
 again. -
  
  In spite of my earlier intentions not to play Lost Planet, I tried it anyway - and nothing but 
 further disappointment follows. I played it on my PC - for about 2-3 hours... that was enough to 
 seal it. The game is a total dud-bomb anyway. The only thing that is good about this game is the 
 graphics. The sound is awful - no matter how I configured my system I could not hear the voices. 
 I finally did manage to hear them - with a set of headphones. The over the shoulder cam just doesn't 
 work for me - it feels like I am pushing a little man with a stick. When you change cameras - it 
 doesn't stay; every time something happens - say you change weapons for example - it goes back 
 to the default. Not only that - the camera is mapped to Mouse Right-Button... what kind of idiotic 
 setup is that? Not that it can't be re-mapped - but it begs the question: Should Capcom be making 
 PC games if they are that oblivious to default FPS keyboard / mouse controls? There isn't anything 
 extraordinary about this game that says it needs to have it's controls mapped any different from 
 any other FPS out there (in fact it has less commands than most similar games in it's genre) - 
 Capcom just did that because they wanted to do what Capcom wants to do. It's further irritating 
 that the XBOX controller scheme is used instead of the PC applicable visuals. You will NEVER play 
 the PC version on the XBOX - so besides a hard sale marketing scheme - what is that Xbox reference 
 doing in my PC game??? It's as unhelpful as it is irrelevent - Capcom shows you XBOX CONTROLS instead 
 of PC CONTROLS... If you want to see the PC Controls, you have to pause the game and go to the 
 menu - very helpful when the game is trying to teach you something and throwing Xbox commands at 
 you - eh?
  
  If I could get past the controller scheme, I still have issues. There is a little lag sometimes 
 - but generally it runs pretty smooth on my DX9 system (I run XP) - but it isn't the system performance 
 that makes this a dud... it's the game itself. It's premise seems to be the antithesis of Bioshock 
 - instead of making sure you live, Lost Planet seems to want you to die as soon as possible. You 
 are constantly dying, at times with nothing to rebuild your life for a long time. You are given 
 clues to stuff that are inobvious to the nth degree. The directions suck and the map that is supposed 
 to be in your useless PDA is non-existant. The character moves painfully slow - and they had nerve 
 to give this slow-poke a walk button... he's walking when he is running at full clip - why didn't 
 you just name it the drag- butt crawl button ? Yeah - I'll be using that on a character who is 
 dying every second... OOOO this games sucks in so many ways there's not enough space on the entire 
 web to express it - even the reviewer ( official review) wrote reams of disappointment about this 
 sack of rotten monkeys... just stay way from this - unless you plan to play it on Xbox. The PC 
 version is a straight rip-off that doesn't even try to shine; just an afterthought with no regards 
 for our expectations and the capabilities of the PC.
  
  Capcom ought to be busy making something they were rather skilled at - I don't know what they thought 
 they were doing here - but what we want from them is Breath of Fire 6... you guys need to leave 
 the FPS to people who really know how to make them. I know they made RE - but this actually makes 
 RE look like fun (I enjoyed Nemesis - but the rest of the series... blahh) .
  
  If you haven't figured it out by now - I think this game stinks, it doesn't even belong in the 
 garbage... because it stinks so bad it'll make hot garbage smell like hot sour unwashed underwear 
 rotted roadkill on a sweaty hairy fat man's puscuous untreated underarm boil spewing moldy maggots 
 dripping down your face and into you curdled-at-the-bottom where you cannot tell until you get 
 a nice big sip of it milk .... garbage. With gaseous bodily emmisions on the side. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ognen
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 2, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  Good graphics, great gameplay and interface, and all that stuff makes Lost Planet: Extreme Condition 
 a superb game. The main idea was on an XBOX360 platform, but this PC version is also better than 
 great. It has very good single player, wich is very easy to learn, and easy to use. The graphics 
 are very well optimized so this makes the game more and more exciting. I hope Capcom is going to 
 make a good glory from this game. For you who are FPS freaks I would highly recommend playing this 
 game, because if they miss this title, theyre going to miss a lot of new thinks in the first person 
 shooter industry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kit30000149
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 2, 2007 4:16 am PT
Review:  About my one day experience, that is a great game for who are working ass off everyday people. 
 short but full of excitement. good sounds effect, graphic is no need to mention. the gameplay is 
 very full of fun and just watch the cut scene is very cool. the bad side is that if you want to 
 enjoy it in full experience, you must have a very good rig, I mean the top PC to run it smooth 
 and visually enjoy it.
  
  Personaly I am happy about this game, I brought it yesterday, the most painfull part is to install 
 this game, take me like one hr to finsih the install and start the game. that is really bad experience, 
 but I was playing half life 2, I have prepare that will happen. But it is worth to wait. Please 
 enjoy this game everybody 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiamat321
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 1, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  It's a beautiful looking game! I wish there was a command to disable the hud and take screenshots
 
  but you can't have it all I guess. Now gameplay I definately enjoy the 360 controller using vista,
 
  playing this game feels like I'm playing on a 360! But I haven't seen any acheivements or anything 
 like that on PC like X-Box Live has, I killed 2 of the the big worms (on the same level, yes two) 
 and I don't have crap to show for it. I like the ingame FPS counter which keeps me from using FRAPS. 
 As far as graphics go I love it very beautiful, except for how the guns you find hover off the 
 ground and there's a yellow bracket rotating around them and when there's a hidden weapon buried 
 less than 6'' in the ground. I haven't played through the whole game but the story seems about 
 a grade B been there done that kind of thing. I like the difficulty for this cause I can't beat 
 the first boss on hard (But I could beat GOW on extreme wtf?) it's a 3ps with an arcade feel and 
 I love it for that. it's just a simple run and gun. Oh and by they way every time a watch a cutscene 
 with Wayne in it without the mask I feel like I'm playing Onimusha lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FunnyMay
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 1, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this game to come to PC since its January Xbox 360 release. With the main 
 concept of shooting aliens in the snowy fields of a faraway planet and great-looking graphics it 
 attracted my attention as a game probably worth checking out. Now that it's finally released, we 
 can see how good the game really is.
  
  When you first start the game, you'll probably be overwhelmed with positive emotions. The presentation 
 is really great. It's not just about the graphics; sound and animation are also of high quality. 
 Humans look and move realistically, explosions and particle effects are abundant and also look 
 great, and Akrid, alien monsters, are particularly well done. There are several different kinds 
 of them, ranging from small flying creatures who attack in packs and die from a single bullet, 
 to huge wormlike monstrosities that require an arsenal to be brought down. They all are greatly 
 detailed and animated, up to the point of being believable. Definitely the best aliens I've seen 
 in a game.
  The game is additionally livened up by by a number of nice graphical and gameplay touches, such 
 as various blizzard and snow effects, your character losing balance when a big alien emerges from 
 the ground nearby, the Akrids freezing solid and then shattering to pieces when deprived of thermal 
 energy, and so on. It all adds up greatly to create a very exciting, hollywood-like experience. 
 You will often be amazed at just how great the on-screen action is.
  
  But when you complete the first couple of missions, you'll start noticing that there is not much 
 to do except blasting everything and going from point A to point B. That is still exciting, but 
 with time becomes somewhat tedious, as there's not much skill involved in fighting (as long as 
 you have some thermal energy left, you are almost impossible to kill, and you will not have any 
 problems with energy as long as you don't stand still. That's true even for the hardest difficulty 
 settings) and your character movement speed is far from fast.
  You'll start encountering human enemies, different kinds of Vital Suits (which are basically mechs 
 that you can pilot) , enemy VSs and occasional simple platforming sequences, but all this isn't 
 going to change the fact that the levels are very linear and there is nothing to do except shooting 
 and running.
  
  There is another thing that substracts from the game. As your supply of thermal energy is constantly 
 depleting, you'll often be tempted to just run past enemies without engaging them, and nothing 
 is stopping you from doing so. Sometimes it goes to the point where you can finish entire level 
 just by running through it paying little attention to the enemies. That leads to an obvious question: 
 what were developers trying to accomplish by making their game emphasize on combat this much, and 
 then giving the player great incentive as well as all the means to just skip it?
  
  That's not to say the game becomes completely boring after a while. The boss battles are exciting 
 throughout the game, and core gameplay remains entertaining, if only thanks to amazing presentation. 
 The problem is that game doesn't have any depth to it. You see that when you finish like third 
 or fourth mission and know exactly what to expect of the rest.
  
  In cases like this, a good story may actually save the game by giving players a reason to play 
 it to the end. It doubles with Lost Planet, as the game tries to be story-driven, with cutscenes 
 after each mission, plenty of dialogue and a cast of somewhat RPGish-looking characters. Despite 
 all its efforts, the story starts to show its weak points almost right off the bat. It tries to 
 be dramatic, and fails, partly because of uninspired dialogue and partly because of some noticeable 
 gaps. The worst part is that it takes itself very seriously while occasionally presenting you with 
 almost nonsensical lines, which makes it very difficult to empathize to. Well, I'm not going to 
 pretend that I'm a good critic, but when after a long drama-filled cutscene you are simply told 
 to go out there and destroy snow pirates' base , and you actually go and do that, that's not a 
 sign of a good story.
  
  To top it off, there are some port-related issues with VS controls and multiplayer games. I don't 
 know about multiplayer, maybe I can't see any games just because no one is playing yet, but as 
 for VS controls, the defaut keyboard setting is really broken. The fact that all tutorial screens 
 show you only Xbox 360 controller button layout doesn't help either.
  
  All in all, this is a good game, but not one you will remember after finishing. Its many weaknesses 
 just can't overshadow its great presentation and excitement of tearing apart alien bugs. If anything, 
 this game is worth playing just to experience next-gen graphics on your PC.
  Although to truly appreciate its graphical greatness you'll need a fairly modern PC. If you plan 
 on turning most of the settings to high, your system must have no less than a dual core processor, 
 2 GB of RAM and NVidia 8800 graphics card. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billyfozz
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 1, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  What a load of crap, If you're going to port over a game at least try to make it look like it was 
 made for a pc, graphics are real good but that is only because it is directx 10... I am sure when 
 a real directx 10 game comes out this will look pretty bland.
  
  First person shooter???? Nope!!! it jumps back to 3rd person all the time.
  
  I'd say give 
 it a miss or try the demo first. put the graphics on full with a nvidia 8800 and you get about 
 15 fps. : (
  
  What a load of crap, If you're going to port over a game at least try to make it look like it was 
 made for a pc, graphics are real good but that is only because it is directx 10... I am sure when 
 a real directx 10 game comes out this will look pretty bland.
  
  First person shooter???? Nope!!! it jumps back to 3rd person all the time.
  
  I'd say give 
 it a miss or try the demo first. put the graphics on full with a nvidia 8800 and you get about 
 15 fps. : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huangzhihao
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 1, 2007 5:35 am PT
Review:  Yes, the first thing you will probably notice is the pretty screen-shots. While you need a powerful 
 pc to run teh game, it does looking very nice and is easily one of the best-looking games around 
 for now. Other than the graphics, the gameplay itsself is quite enjoyable. You get tons of heart-pumping 
 actions, explosions, and firewoks.... with a realistic environment. The combination of high tech 
 war machines and gigantic aliens add in more fresh air. There enough weapons in game to pick up, 
 either for yourself, or for the VS (the battle walkers u use in game) . and the option to change 
 weapons for you and ur vs adds a little strategy into the game. Despite some tech issues that you 
 may already heard, the single player itself doesn't have any major problem. Yes, the game is connected 
 to steam, and i heard that you need internet connection jsut to play solo. One of the good things 
 is though, you don need the cd to start the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcaullay
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 30, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  And so it arrives, one of the first DirectX 10 games to be released. I have to be honest. I wasn't 
 left wanting.
  
  Before I begin, I would like to point out to readers that this game is very demanding of your system. 
 I run a pretty raw machine, but even my little puppy couldn't reach 16x Anti-Aliasing with all 
 the settings on high before it began churning out dire warnings about severe reductions in game 
 performance. You have been warned...
  
  The first and unfortunate thing you notice about this game, is the obvious porting from the Xbox360 
 version. One of the settings options takes you directly to controller set-up and the in-game tips 
 regarding control of vehicles and other interactable options leave you mashing buttons in a vain 
 attempt to get your lumbering machine of death to even move. My first experience of this frightful 
 flaw was when encountering one of your more larger foes... suffice to say, 'ama'ghad which button 
 makes me fly?' is not a question you should be asking when a large hungry bug would like to have 
 you for lunch. But, once conquered, the controls for each of the in-game machines are pretty similar, 
 making it more of an initial annoyance rather than a slur on the gameplay as a whole. The second 
 unfortunate thing about this game is its briefness. Time certainly flies when you are having fun 
 and the same can be said about this game. The 13-odd missions in which you have to undertake can 
 very easily be completed within relatively short periods of time depending on how hardcore you 
 want to be, but due to the actual game mechanics (which I will explain later) , the developers kind 
 of force you to rush to a lesser degree. Once again however, this shortfall, in my opinion, doesn't 
 diminish was ultimately is a very good game.
  
  Now onto the good points... the fabled graphics. Despite me having to lower a couple of the settings, 
 I was still amazed at how beautiful the game looks. Whats more, having lowered settings means that 
 the game (with a little hardware upgrade) has still got a little more to give. Snow storms blind 
 you, xenos skin glistens, alien ichor sprays gloriously from landed hits, it really is fantastic. 
 The explosions and smoke effects are like nothing I have seen before. I have always been an 'old 
 codger' in my 'its the gameplay that matters' opinion, but the graphics really do add a significant 
 part to the game. If this is a view of things to come, I eagerly await the release of more DX10 
 games. Despite the significant cost that I will have to endure on purchasing hardware to get it 
 to look good. Anyway, enough said on the graphics.
  
  Now, onto what really matters. The gameplay. Lost Planet delivers nothing that we haven't seen 
 before. All the usual stuff is there. Stuff attacks you, you shoot it, you pick up ammo, you shoot 
 some more --- its all basic. The weapon selection system is the same as most modern shooters. Ultimately, 
 you are not Arnold Schwarzenegger, you cannot carry around the entire weapons cash of the western 
 world, its just not believable. So, two weapons slots are all you have, but in my experience, I 
 never ditched the basic machine rifle, leaving me with only one exchangeable slot. Fortunately, 
 the game isn't evil enough to leave you kicking yourself that you left your lovely rocket launcher 
 over the wall when as you land the other side, you are staring down the barrel of a vehicle. You'll 
 just have to run for the one placed somewhere within that area. In terms of the interesting part 
 of the game mechanics, I refer to the 'thermal power' concept. Whilst not explained very well, 
 you soon come to learn that your bullet riddled enemies drop thermal energy, which you then collect. 
 This energy is added to a total pool, which when wounded regenerates your life. The more energy 
 you have, the more punishment you can take. Regenerating life in this way reduces the amount from 
 the pool until when it reaches zero, you die. Simple? Well, not exactly. You see for me this is 
 the best part. The pool reduces over time also. And, for whatever reason, if this pool reaches 
 0, you die whether facing hordes of bugs or drinking Earl Gray tea with dear old granny. You see, 
 this is what makes this game good. No dilly dallying, you must kill to survive. It turns what could 
 be a rather hum drum shooter into something a little more. Admittedly, if you are the cover and 
 shoot type, over-time you usually gather enough thermal energy to power a small city, therefore 
 simply dieing whilst you get a drink isn't a real probability. But if you like to run in all guns 
 blazing, like me, then the incentive is there to keep constantly on the move. Its really personal 
 taste. I even ignore the power up zones just to add a little more 'pe zaz' into my gaming experience. 
 Its just something a little different. Aside from the mention of boss fights and lack of in-game 
 saves/checkpoints, there isn't anything more I can think of at this moment in time.
  
  As for the multiplayer element, from what I read, I am rather glad I have avoided it like the plague.
 
  
  To mention of bugs and glitches, as of this moment, my game has run crashless, hangless and glitchless.
 
  
  Conclusion? If you are looking for a solid, fast paced, beautiful shooter, look no further than 
 Lost Planet. Despite its minor drawbacks and the amazing amount of hype that surrounded its release 
 (which should be ignored) , taken as it is, it makes for a thoroughly enjoyable game. Like shooting 
 bugs and the occasional pirate? Lock and load. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IMAHAPYHIPPO
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 30, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  Writing a review for a game like Lost Planet can be confusing. While I continue to play it, I still 
 wonder why I'm playing.. if it's worth it. The level design is good: the environments are beautiful 
 and detailed, but the enemy AI is so stupid that you usually have time to update your PDA while 
 they're in pursuit of you. The Akrid pose literally no threat to you at all. You can walk right 
 past them, and out of the hundreds you'll take on, maybe six of them will actually attack you, 
 lowering your health by about 10% which boots back up in seconds. Human enemies are incredibly 
 stupid. Any change of depth other than being completely level with them and they'll sit and take 
 fire until they fall. It's clear that this game was designed for close combat, as you can be as 
 far as a few steps away and they won't even acknowledge your existence. The one saving grace for 
 this game is the boss battles. They're incredibly fun and challenging, so much so that after taking 
 down hundreds of Akrid, the boss at the end of the level will probably cause you to stumble to 
 your knees because of how much more challenging it is than the rest of the game. On a side note, 
 it's kind of lame that you have to be connected to the internet at ALL times to play this.. especially 
 when you have a buggy wireless card that stops randomly, because when this happens, the game will 
 crash. The gameplay is alright. It's fluid enough, but like most Capcom games, your character is 
 THE single most unagile person on the entire planet, that's right, the mech units will move with 
 more grace than Wayne, but that's just a Capcom thing I guess. So all in all, the only reason you 
 should get this game is if you've got a nice dx10 video card and absolutely have to have something 
 to show it off with before the wave of August games roll through.. not a bad experience though, 
 I'm enjoying it, and for 39.99 it's not bad compared to the 60$ tag the 360 version still holds. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronds9
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 29, 2007 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Off the bat I will be the first to say that there may be some issues with the menu design and control 
 schemes for this game. I cannot speak to the fact of how the game performed with a gamepad because 
 I used my keyboard and mouse. The game played very nice for me. Once I made some adjustments in 
 the game settings option, the mouse/keyboard scheme was perfect. What I will give the game credit 
 for is its incredible graphics. I have played the best of the eye candy pc games. Games like Doom 
 3, Quake 4, Oblivion, Dark Messiah, Half-Life 2, and Call of Duty 2. Lost Planet is the best looking 
 PC game I have ever played. Granted, I played the Directx 10 version with most of the setting turned 
 on high. Even still, I was blown away with the details and at how smooth it ran on my system. The 
 game ran anywhere between 60-119 fps using my Nvidia 8800 GTX. I realize that Gamespot isn't known 
 for giving high marks to many pc games, but as far as good first person shooters for the PC's go, 
 this definitely deserved higher than a 7.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hemregul
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 29, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game thinking that after a long day I would sit down and enjoy a nights worth of 
 game playing. (which i do not get to do often)
  
  Im not going to go into all of the problematic issues (and there are many) or the mechanics of 
 the game but will try to point out some of the major issues (from my perspective) that had my anger 
 level increase during game play.
  
  1. The tumble animations incorporated into the game play cause havoc most of the time. I know that 
 this is suppose to put some realism into the game but common!!!!! during the time I cant control 
 my character the enemy usually has a chance to reload and fire their weapons keeping you in a state 
 or loop of tumbles which ends in imminent death. --- I mean in the real world we do tend to try 
 to escape....
  
  2. The story line and some of characters did not make sense. I. e Joining in piracy with the enemy, 
 clone brothers and sisters that talk rather then fight and have the same name * Solotov, cut scenes 
 that only get you more confused etc. 3. You can complete the game in about 8 - 10 hours - Think 
 about the price of the game....
  
  4. There are a lot of graphical issues where you can get stuck and will have to reload..... Frustrating 
 really.
  
  So in short I think in terms of the graphics and online play if you don't have anything better 
 to do you can enjoy a few rounds playing this game. ( Plus the graphics aren't bad you will tend 
 to have fun with the exception of all the problems in the mechanics of the game; and if you don't 
 watch the cut scenes.) But from my perspective I think that this game could have been great... but 
 feels like somewhere on the road to success someone forgot about the players out there and pushed 
 the game onto the shelves asap. My recommendation would be to NOT to buy it immediately until you 
 either rent or play it at your friends (if they have already bought a copy :-) ) before you decide 
 to get it off the shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bue519
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 29, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  i find that this game was pretty fun but alot of techinacal issues made it hard to play like how 
 you have to be connected to the internet to play or how you need a to have totally updted graphics 
 drivers to play
  and it didnt update my directx to play and i had to manually do it
  but when the gameplay started i had tons of fun and couldnt stop. the missions felt rewarding and 
 the game looked beutiful and even the story was pretty engaging. also the akrid looked awesome 
 and i loved seeing them pop out of the ground or the post apocolyptic wasteland. the ai could have 
 used to some work but in the end it turned out gread and i had a fun time i just wish it was easier 
 to get it set up
  
  ps the damage on the vs looks awesome denting and bullet holes for the win 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omar788786
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 29, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  Teslo zen atok razor blade sans the roff falling from dungeon. Take zee kellerman zade from the 
 pain of which I feel and den witnezz crimes.
  Compan Intel versus ADM is better cosh of vareit y at coslack, aghubak to crain.
  Veiw de distance 
 at which hullund bites the ear of planet Urunus. Lost Palnet is gud cuase of gampla y an- cuase 
 of me liking.
  But I do wanna u see the plying uself.
  If u doo wanna u see the liknig in se gam an- will drive frum Gobase ren sakkasan. If aslo back 
 to de rentrade angre at pepulles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red_X
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 28, 2007 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet for PC is just as good as the 360 version but with a bit better graphics and a little 
 better gameplay. You will just need a good PC to run it. With that in mind, Lost Planet on PC is 
 still a great game that mostly anyone can play. The Single player campaign isn't the best but its 
 fun and entertaining and will take you anywhere from 8-12 hours to complete. Single player is not 
 buggy at all except for the weird requirement that you must have an online connection to be able 
 to play it. As most have you have noticed though, there are problems with multiplayer. As of right 
 now, finding an online battle is nearly impossible because you cannot join anyone's server and 
 if you host a server, no one will join. If you are lucky enough to find a server you can join, 
 you will quickly notice there is no way to chat with other players, neither text nor voice, which 
 makes multiplayer seem frustrating. With that aside though, the multiplayer gameplay is just as 
 good as it was on the 360. You still can still rank up and you can still unlock costumes and when 
 you find a room with 16 players the battles get intense. I am sure within the next week or so, 
 we will see a patch that will fix all the multiplayer bugs and hopefully allow us to chat in game. 
 Overall I think Lost Planet on PC is a great game with a few multiplayer flaws that I am sure will 
 be fixed soon enough. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
