-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Lost: Via Domus
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/lost/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Environments and lighting are impressive.
 Story fits into the overall first two seasons very well.
 Flashbacks fit well with the character and the series.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Character models don't look quite right.
 Overpriced for a short game with no replay value.
 Lip-synching is off.
 Animations look stiff and bland.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 29, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 5.3, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 645 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Montreal
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Feb 26, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This short adventure game nails the feel of both the show and the island on which it's set, but 
 struggles with some of the characters. 

  According to the television show  Lost , in 2004, Oceanic Airlines flight 815 crashed somewhere 
 in the Pacific Ocean. Whether you think the survivors are stranded on an island or bottled up in 
 a different location, Ubisoft has added one more survivor to the mix in its latest adventure game. 
 Lost: Via Domus tells a good story, but it's far too short to justify the game's price of admission. 

  In Lost: Via Domus, you take control of an amnesiac photojournalist who was also aboard the fateful 
 transpacific flight. During the game you must slowly regain your identity through completing quests, 
 talking with the other survivors, and correctly identifying clues during flashbacks. Early on you 
 find out you had a camera on the plane with you. Evidently one of your photographs made another 
 survivor mad enough to want to destroy the photograph and kill you. The events in the story unfold 
 in a great parallel to the TV series. Most of the game's storyline occurs during the first two 
 seasons of the show, but characters appearing in season three of the show are also included in 
 encounters and exposition. The core characters are all there: Jack, Locke, Kate, Sawyer, Charlie, 
 Claire, Sun, Jin, Hurley, and Sayid. Tom, Ben, and Juliet -- of the Others -- appear as well to ensure 
 that the hostile, we-were-here-before-you storyline is kept alive and well.  

           Fans of the show will recognize plenty of characters and locations.      

  The environments 
 are hands down the best-looking part of the game, particularly on the PlayStation 3. The as-seen-on- 
 Lost  locations and the few new environments are beautifully and accurately rendered. The lighting, 
 feel, and sounds of the environment are all spot-on. Frequently, we found ourselves walking out 
 to precipices just to take in the sights or zooming in with our camera to see how detailed the 
 hatch's bookshelves were. The crash site looks true to the show's pilot episode, even if the chaotic 
 initial few minutes don't play out exactly as they do in the TV series. The areas look great, and 
 their diversity keeps you from feeling like you're spending too much time in one place.  

  The biggest problem is that there is not enough gameplay to fill more than seven hours, even if 
 you go out of your way to find all of the Easter eggs, take in all of the sights, and unlock all 
 of the achievements available on the Xbox 360. The bartering, exploring, hot-wiring, and occasional 
 pistol-firing sequences are all a clear part of the  Lost  milieu. You'll spend so much time in 
 the fuse-plugging minigames, though, that you'll feel like an electrician by the end of your adventure. 
 That's because the same minigame is played when you need to access everything from old hatches 
 on the island to the crashed jetliner's fuselage.  

  One standout portion of the gameplay is the way photography is used in the playable flashback sequences. 
 At the outset of each trip down memory lane, you get a glimpse of a torn-up photograph. From that 
 flash, you have to use your camera to take a picture to match the broken image as the sequence 
 of events plays out. The same sequence will loop repeatedly for you as you try to zoom, focus, 
 and position the framing to match what the image was. Upon successfully capturing the required 
 image, you are then treated to a cutscene with a portion of the main character's backstory. The 
 whole premise makes flashbacks interesting, immersive, and enjoyable. The fact that flashbacks 
 fit so well within the main character's photojournalist vocation also makes the functionality feel 
 natural and engaging.  

  Interacting with the cast should be enjoyable, but that isn't always the case. Your character's 
 dialogue isn't always voiced, but when it is, his comments are often natural and believable. At 
 other times, however, his remarks get repetitious. The voice acting in Lost: Via Domus is generally 
 decent, but the lip-synching leaves a lot to be desired. Aside from the occasionally great delivery 
 by Hurley or the infrequent encounters with the Others, most of the exchanges look and feel flat. 
 Even the nicknames delivered by Sawyer crash and burn most of the time. The characters are instantly 
 recognizable but generally fail to do their real-life counterparts justice. Also, the 360 version 
 has some instances of inconsistent shading on the characters' faces.  

           You'll get the same Lost: Via Domus experience regardless of which platform you choose 
 to play on.      

  All three versions of Lost: Via Domus look and perform in a similar manner. The PlayStation 3 version 
 looks a little cleaner and brighter than the others, but it can be played only after a seven-minute, 
 onetime install. The PC version allows for seamless mouse-and-keyboard controls. The Xbox 360 version 
 looks a little darker than the others. Still, you'll get the same story and a pretty similar experience 
 on every platform.  

  For the most diehard of  Lost  followers, the time spent with the game will be enjoyable. Unfortunately, 
 it is over way too fast. Via Domus is full of little hang-ups, and it requires some knowledge of 
 the show that could potentially isolate outside players and keep them from becoming immersed in 
 the gameworld. Ultimately, this game can be recommended for purchase only to the most diehard of 
  Lost  fans.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (43 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: VENOM192
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 8, 2009 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Lost: Via Domus is disappointing if you're a Lost fan and also if you're not a Lost fan, with the 
 characters voice's sounding not like they should and the short storyline even if there is three 
 Lost series out there, but not everything is bad. All right Lost's gameplay is exceptionally good 
 and the graphics is 9/10 which capture's the Lost world good and the storyline could have been 
 great if it wasn't that short, but the story begins with a new unseen flight 815 survivor who can't 
 remember his past and you'll get to see some familiar locations and some new one's where you need 
 to complete some certain tasks like betraying other survivors, fixing laptops, killing other's 
 (enemies) and running from the smoke monster and you're skills will also be tested with reconnecting 
 circuit boards and hacking computer's, you also need to use your flashbacks to complete the game 
 and revealing your past to find out who you really are. If Ubisoft did their job better with the 
 characters and also polish a few other thing's then this game would certainly be a must have for 
 Lost fans.
  
  Have fun gaming.
  Venom192
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: javanniekerk
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 9, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  One of the first questions any non-Lost viewer probably has about this game is whether it has any 
 value to players who are unfamiliar with the show. I'd venture that the chances are slim  much 
 of the enjoyment value lies in getting to "explore" the Island for yourself, and interacting with 
 characters in a familiar, recognizable way. If, however, you are a fan of the show, and need a 
 way to fill a few days of the interminably long wait until next season, Lost: Via Domus will likely 
 fit the bill.
  
  You play as an amnesic survivor who, like everyone else, awakens on the beach after the crash. 
 As you get your bearings, you quickly discover that you have no idea who you are. Apparently someone 
 else knows, though, as it doesn't take long before a beady-eyed stranger attacks you on the beach. 
 The game consists of trying to regain your memory, both for your own sake and for the sake of easing 
 the suspicious minds of some of the more prominent survivors (Jack, Kate, Sayid, et al.) The more 
 you learn about who you are and how you ended up here, the less appealing you seem to be. Ah, what 
 would Lost be without conflicted characters?
  
  The first remarkable aspect of the game is its graphics. The island has been rendered in high detail, 
 and many of the characters look surprisingly true to life. (A few others, on the other hand, such 
 as Hurley, are just a bit strange and alarming looking) . While you'll need a fairly muscular system 
 in order to really play at the highest settings, even with things toned down a bit, everything 
 looks fairly good. I will note here, and expand later, that your graphics settings can actually 
 affect gameplay in some spots, which is a bit frustrating.
  
  Voice acting is fairly good, with a few actors reprising their roles from the TV show. Where the 
 original actors opted not to take part, the voice actors who play them do a good job of approximating 
 them. Even better is the musical score, which draws heavily from the TV show's soundtrack. In a 
 few key scenes, the music is extremely effective at ramping up the tension, making it easy to get 
 caught up in the panic of the moment. 
  
  It's a good sign when gameplay merits quite a bit of attention in a review, and in Via Domus, there 
 is a fairly decent variety of gameplay. There's a mix of logic puzzles, action sequences, and loads 
 of exploration. There are also unique "mini-games" in which you have to use fragmented memories 
 to recreate a photograph in order to trigger one of the show's trademark flashbacks. These flashbacks 
 serve largely to establish your identity, slowly reminding you of who you were before you landed 
 on the island, though it wouldn't be Lost if there weren't some startling connections in your past 
 to the Island itself. These sequences require just enough keen observation while being forgiving 
 enough to avoid much frustration. 
  
  Logic puzzles in the form of fuse boxes are a bit more frustrating at times, especially when you 
 realize at one that you need pieces from the previous one in order to continue. Fortunately, that 
 only happens once  at all subsequent puzzles, the pieces you need can be found in your current 
 location. Fuse boxes are apparently a key system on the Island, as you'll come across quite a few 
 of these puzzles during your journey. They require a fair bit of logic on the player's part, which 
 makes them quite satisfying to complete. 
  
  Perhaps most enjoyably for me, there is even a "puzzle" requiring you to enter The Numbers into 
 the hatch computer, and it truly does count down every 108 minutes. Amusingly, I had decided to 
 walk away from the game for a while to take a break from a fuse puzzle, but didn't think to pause 
 the game. When the computer started beeping because 108 minutes had elapsed, I had to race in from 
 another room to enter the numbers into the computer and not lose my progress in the game. That 
 in itself was rather fun  giving me a tiny taste of what it would be like to be one of the Hatch's 
 occupants. Of course, I'm weird like that.
  
  Least enjoyable for me were the action sequences, but it turned out that a large part of the reason 
 for this were my graphics settings. In one sequence, you have to navigate through the jungle while 
 carrying dynamite, all while avoiding the smoke monster. My settings, which had been fine throughout 
 the rest of the game, made this sequence unbearably sluggish, and I simply couldn't evade Ol' Smokey. 
 After a full day of various attempts to succeed, I finally figured out that I should turn down 
 my settings, and successfully completed the scene on the first attempt. 
  
  Conversely, a sequence that involved running, jumping and sliding was way too sensitive to my movements, 
 and in my first dozen or so attempts, I couldn't get past the first 10 seconds without falling 
 off a cliff. I decided to bump my settings up a bit in order to slow down gameplay, and sure enough, 
 quickly managed to succeed. This is a bit frustrating, especially when coupled with the inability 
 to save at will  unlike most adventure games, this game consists solely of automatic checkpoints. 
 There is also one frustrating point (the first jump/slide/run sequence) that annoyingly insisted 
 on including the "Previously" segment every time you failed, meaning an annoyingly long wait between 
 attempts.
  
  In all, I enjoyed Lost: Via Domus. It was a slight bit shorter than I would have liked, but my 
 busy schedule meant I ended up spreading playtime over a few days rather than a few hours. There 
 are quite a few nice touches from the TV show  little easter eggs, nods to fans, and the like. 
 Its few shortcomings, such as twitchy action sequences, unskippable "Previously on Lost" segments, 
 and the somewhat repetitive nature of the fuse puzzles, are easy to overlook. Play the game if 
 you are a diehard Lost fan, even though nothing in the game is considered canon by the show's creators; 
 if you're unfamiliar with the show and its story, there probably isn't much to enjoy here.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: khatibi22
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 3, 2008 5:21 am PT
Review:  A plane crashes and lands on an Island which seems to be deserted, 
  and some people survive and they try to find ways to go back home.
  The protagnist is Eliot a 
 photojournalist which was the witness of a 
  criminal pleading and some baddies followed him and they are trying
  to get rid of him and get 
 back the documented pictures he has taken.
  Eliot and the other survivers will soon find out they are not alone in the
  seemingly deserted 
 island and there are others there.
  So far the story. What you do here is to lead Eliot through out different 
  activities, searching 
 places, finding items, running away from the hazards
  solving puzzles etc. 
  Lost Via Domus ist categorised under modern action adventures but is kind
  of point& click plus 
 some action. I have played a few adventure games
  which tried to give more varierty and fun by adding some action sequesnces
  to their game. To 
 name one, I can recall of Broken Sword: The Sleeping Dragon. I like this idea because although 
 I am an adventure fan, just going from point a to point b can be monotonos and repetetive. 
  The most disappointing aspect in Lost Via Domus is that it is extremly short.
  I don't remember 
 playing a game this short in a decade. It seems that the developer were in a hurry to finish this 
 game so took out some parts to have itready as fast as they could.
  One another minus point is that the game is way too easy. An experienced 
  gamer will face no 
 challange playing this game. There are almost no real puzzles in this game. 
  What the graphics concerns, it is satisfactory. The jungle back grounds esepcially in high resolution 
 are really nice to look at. Eliot and the other characters are also interesting and move rather 
 fine. 
  All together, inspite of the low Gamespot rating, I enjoyed playing this game and I wished the 
 developers would have take their time to polish it and add a couple of more levels to it, so the 
 gaming experience would be more satisfactory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J2TheB
Rating: 7
Date: May 20, 2008 1:22 am PT
Review:  I was surprised to hear there was a game adaption of the hit tv show coming out, but I thought 
 it would be cancelled midway, cause, how could it succeed? guess I was wrong, midway!
  
  Graphics *9/10*
  
  First and foremost, the graphics is astonishing and very well done. It truly 
 captures the world of Lost superbly. Unfortunately these areas have borders which limits exploration 
 and makes the game a bit too linear. 
  Somehow it feels more like a virtual tour through the island of Lost, then an actual survival island 
 that you can fully explore.
  
  Gameplay *6/10* 
  
  Since this is 3rd person, it pretty much plays like a 3rd person game, controls aren't too fussy, 
 but it takes some time getting used to, especially during shooting sections (which are limited 
 as well) . The game doesn't have much variety, apart from some mini-games, which are located at 
 various points in the game, these mini-games are interesting at first, but become repetitive and 
 shallow. Since your character is a photographer, you will be using a camera during different times 
 on the island, and during flashbacks. The camera helps you to progress the story and capture memorable 
 parts of the series (which would only be familiar to Lost fans) after capturing these stills, special 
 features are unlocked, but these features doesn't make the game more interesting and replayable.
 
  
  Storyline *8/10*
  
  As I'm a huge Lost fan, I was excited about the game and what mysteries it could hold or reveal, 
 which is one of the games' best points. The new character fits perfectly to the Lost story, and 
 the various characters you meet throughout, will make Lost fans very happy, but unfortunetely the 
 characters themselves aren't much to shout about. The most obvious reason is the voice acting, 
 which is horrible with some characters, even characters done by the real cast sound different! 
 And as with all games, I think lip-syncing is important if done correctly, guess they should fire 
 the team who done this, cause it felt like watching kung-pow, just without the laughs, and kung 
 fu...
  Still the storyline is great, and confusing, and true to Lost.
  
  Value *3/10*
  
  This game is just way too short and expensive to be of true value, why, cause you easily finish 
 this in less than 5 hours, and with no alternate choices, or routes, and borish unlockables, its 
 just not worth buying! Rent it first and if you truly loved it, then buy it.
  
  *Conclusion*
  
  Overall, Lost is graphically superior with great sound and great storyline 
 which will keep extreme Lost fans happy, yet somehow it was just too short to enjoy to the full 
 extent, and with the few annoying flaws (lip sync, different voice cast and being very linear) 
 the game was a bit of a disappointment.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: muffbm
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 18, 2008 1:23 pm PT
Review:  First of all, don't even think of playing the game if you are not a fan of the show. It won't make 
 any sense to you and you will just get frustrated with the characters. If you are a fan of the 
 show then it is worth playing because the game uses some of the real story in the game.
  
  The game play itself is a little sloppy. For example, you sometimes have to maneuver Elliot around 
 the most annoying objects that in any other game you would be able to step over/ jump over. 
  
  Great job with the graphics and characters I thought. A lot of people think the voices are 
 messed up but I thought they did a pretty good job for the most part. I mean it is a video game 
 and it is not like they used the actual cast to make the game. I do think they took quotes from 
 the show and dubbed them in to the game cinematic. 
  
  All and All Lost "Via Domus" is a solid game. However it was way to short and the value factor 
 suffers. Don't pay the $60 on this game when you can rent it and finish it the same day. 
  
  Enjoy!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danimita
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 24, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  Are you a fan of Lost? Have you seen most (if not all) of the episodes? If the answer is no, look 
 away from this game. It's only for people that watch Lost.
  
  Expecting nothing from this game, i was surprised by how much i enjoyed playing it. Why? 
  
 
  GRAPHICS:
  Greatly detailed environments you'll recognize from the series make up for Jack's really bad model 
 and not very impressive "black smoke". There's nice facial expressions and blurry effects used 
 to focus the main character's camera.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Okay so this is where people learned to hate this game. From a game based on an action oriented 
 series, you'd expect loads of shooting, explosions and adrenaline. Shooting "The Others" and making 
 your way through the island. On the other hand, this is an adventrue game such as "Dreamfall: the 
 longest journey" and the "Broken Sword" saga. It's mostly walking around talking to the survivors, 
 grabbing items through the island and in one or two ocations, using your gun. There are also two 
 running scenes in which you're trying to get to a place or escaping from something, jumping over, 
 or sliding under obstacles as fast as you can. There are also a series of puzzles concerning electric 
 circuits all around the level, and flashbacks in which you take a photo and examine objects to 
 continue.
  They said this game was short. They said the game takes 4 hours. I took things slow, and took me 
 two days to finish it.
  
  SOUND:
  Great voice acting, although you can notice one or two character's haven't got the same voice as 
 in the series. 
  
  STORY:
  The story is worthy of the Lost franchise. Very similar to how the TV series' story develops. With 
 a very good ending, by the way.
  
  If you can, rent it. But if you can't, and are a Lost fan, I'd tell you to risk trying this game, 
 but thinking in a negative way. Don't expect a very good game packed with action and too many story 
 twists. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Liverpoolmania7
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 23, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  a good thing, as is expected, is that there are the main Lost characters such as Jack, Kate and 
 Locke who are the main characters in the story. there is also Desmond, Sayid, Sawyer, Charlie, 
 Hurley, Sun, Claire, Jin and Michael, however interactions with all of these characters are extremely 
 limited and some, like Sun and Jin, serve no purpose to actually completing the story. There are 
 also the main 'Others' in Ben, Juliet, Tom and Patchy (the russian guy) .
  
  now the bad part, while the main lost characters, outlined above, are in the story, it is quite 
 disappointing to say that apart from these characters and a few others who are not in the TV series, 
 there are no other characters on the island, which was really a big blow to the atmosphere of the 
 whole show. Its not like Hitman where they are 50 or so people in any location, but there are only 
 5 at most in one area. For example in the opening scene of the game there is Jack, Locke, Kate, 
 Claire, Hurley and Michael all doing thier specific things and that is it. There are no other characters 
 walking around in a daze, no one is injured, there is only one dead body. However in the TV show 
 as you may recall there are dozens of characters all running around, people screaming and trying 
 to help eachother, but none of that in the game. and that is the same story for the rest of the 
 game, there are never any backround characters to give you that feel that you get from the show, 
 which is kind of disappointing.
  
  The graphics were spectacular which great scenery at times and detailed sets of lost were fun to 
 explore like the hatch and the hydra station, you even get to go inside the magnetic room next 
 to the swan. the characters also look pretty good however thier voices are clearly not the voices 
 of the real actors (except for claire, which sounded spot on) , which is slightly disappointing 
 considering it wouldnt be that hard to get them to read out a few lines.
  
  there are some nice quotes to read while waiting for the game to load which really emphasise some 
 interesting quotes like "everything happens for a reason". However even by the end of the game 
 these repeat a few times, which is disappointing considering how short the game is and how many 
 things have been said in Lost.
  
  Which brings me to the biggest downfall of the game, playing time. I bought this game a few days 
 ago. That night I installed in around 5-530 in the afternoon and finished the game at about 9-10pm, 
 less than 5 hours playing time. And the game also offers absolutely no replay value (as said in 
 the gamespot review) as the story is completely linear, im talking absolutely no mini quests or 
 subplots, from A to B, theres nothing to do on the way. (you are able to take photos of certain 
 things eg, lockes wheelchair, to unlock things, but these are just scenic photos and a very disappointing 
 unlockable) .
  
  Furthermore a good deal of the game is quite childish and pointless. There are two points in the 
 game where you must run down a path jumping over logs by pressing enter, and sliding under trees 
 by pressing spacebar, very childish activites that is far below the standard of the average PC 
 game.
  
  However there are some interesting and at time quite difficult puzzles to solve, which all consist 
 of directing volts around a circuit board in order to get very specific voltages reaching specific 
 points. However even in this you must first walk around like a dope to find the these little objects, 
 which you use to solve the puzzle.
  
  There is however another puzzle-ish feature that occurs in flashbacks. you must aim a camera (your 
 a journalist) and focus the camera and take a picture of a specific moment which will jog your 
 memory (you have amnesia [yes i know, how original] ) and take you to a video clip of the flashback 
 revealing the story. 
  
  However i must say that by the end the story wasnt all that superb, it was pretty good but not 
 tremendous, and the final twist is just plain wierd. It started out very well in typical lost fashion. 
 mysterious characters and the like, however by the end the whole "lost" feeling of the storyline, 
 was gone.
  
  Now there is one more part to the game that i didnt like and that was one particular level where 
 you have to outrun the monster smokey. This is made all the more annoying due to the fact that 
 you must carry some dynamite and if you run for more that a few seconds you explode. so you must 
 run a few metres then hide in some trees, wait about 30 seconds for smokey to leave before walking 
 to the next set of trees. all in all a painfully slow level.
  
  So thats the game. in summary, plot was pretty good, but could be better, especially for lost, 
 the main characters were there and the game followed the series pretty well. but the game was far 
 too quick, linear, simple and at times pointless.
  
  Overall i wouldnt recommend this game, certainly not now. Maybe wait a few years until the price 
 drops by a lot when people realise that this game isnt all that great. This game was definately 
 one to make a few quick bucks while lost is a big hit, not a true gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwilletts
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Lost: Via Domus is a game that you can get lost in. The Island with its numerous mysteries serves 
 as the perfect setting for a beautiful lush landscape. At first glance player may think its Crysis 
 but oh no, its not. The graphics serve as one of the high points in an other wise mediocre game. 
 Stunning visuals capture an environment rich with somewhat amiss objects. The level of detail given 
 to every plant does not come with a heavy price either. Medium level PC's can easily run Lost: 
 Via Domus and give the same gorgeous visuals even if the FPS is only in the upper teens. 
  
  Evidently the beauty given to the Island's landscape cut a deep hole in the budget and left 
 the developers with only enough money to hire horrible voice actors that sound nothing like the 
 originals. When playing a game based on an extremely popular TV show, I want the actors to play 
 their own characters so there is a type of continuity between the show and the game. Locke for 
 example sounds as if he got younger by about 20 years. The horrendous voice acting detracts from 
 an experience that could have other wise been overwhelming. Notable characters such as Ana Lucia, 
 Echo and Walt are missing throughout the course of the game. Echo is briefly seen during a flashback 
 along with Micheal in the Hotel. 
  
  Lost: Via Domus is a great example of an adventure game done pretty darn good. Quests have you 
 moving around the island searching for items and people and in one or two cases running from the 
 Others and the Black Smoke. An interesting mechanic to the game was the puzzles in which fuses 
 have to be inserted into slots while making sure the correct amount of power gets to the end result. 
 None are truly challenging if you just think. Players are able to trade with one another through 
 a system in which every item is worth a certain amount of money and the only way to make a successful 
 trade is to make it even. Its an interesting system that works and is much needed in certain instances. 
 
  
  Traversing the island is a pain in most cases due to the funky and buggy control system which has 
 you using the keyboard for most the character interaction sequences. Running from place to place 
 is awkward in that you are forced to hold down W and Shift at the same was while either using WASD 
 to move from left to right or the mouse. While this is the control scheme for many games, its made 
 worse by the running animation and linear path. By linear path I mean, take for example traveling 
 from the beach to the hatch, when you step out into the jungle their are multiple openings in the 
 jungle that can be explored but for most of the game players much search for markers that lead 
 them to their goal, stray off the marked path and the game will force you to start the section 
 over again. This can be extremely frustration when mysterious gun fire is being aimed at you or 
 the black smoke is in hot pursuit. Also, the physics are pretty bad, run into a tree and a reaction 
 won't take place until a second or two later, doesn't detract from the game but can be downright 
 frustrating. 
  
  Overall Lost: Via Domus is what's expected of a TV show spin off game. Fans of the show this is 
 a must have, for anyone else wait until its hit the bargain bin or goes on sale. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soundman10f
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 8:22 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit I am a huge Lost fan to begin with, and lets all admit it this game was made for 
 big time Lost fans because any one else who plays it is just wasting there time and money. 
  
  To begin, this game has a great Lost story telling feel to it. You take on the role of a survivor 
 of the Oceanic Airlines flight 815 crash who has not been seen in the show before and you have 
 no memories of who you are. You do find out fast that you are a photographer for a newspaper or 
 something like that. The game plays out like 7 EPs of Lost, including the fames "Last time on Lost" 
 opening followed by a montage of cut scenes of what happened last.
  
  As you play threw the game you run in to things or people who say something or does something to 
 trigger a flash back. To get threw the flash back you have to take a photo of an event just so 
 you can talk to someone to find out what you were doing before you got on the plane simple enough, 
 until you try to frame up the shot. Most of the photos you have to take are so excite that it makes 
 it really hard to take them. When you are done with the flash back you know more about yourself 
 and you go around the island trying to find more clues about who you are and what is going on. 
 You also can take photos of items or places that have been seen in the show to unlock extra content. 
 
  
  The story is interesting and has the usual mind bending, cut off, to be continued feel to it that 
 most Lost EPs have. It is has a few mini-games tied together by running from person to person to 
 get a quest while trying to avoid getting shot by the others or killed by the black smoke. It is 
 entertaining but is why too short. I bought the game, played for about 4-5 hrs. that day and found 
 out from a walk threw guide I was more then half way done. It took me only 7 hrs. to finish it. 
 I enjoyed it but found it too short, with not enough to do in it, and with some of the characters 
 voiced by someone other then the person who plays them on TV. As a fan of Lost I liked it but it 
 was a let down. So if you're not a fan of Lost or if you haven't seen the show you should stay 
 away from it. But if you're a huge fan of the show you might want to wait for the price to drop 
 on it before you get it. It's not like playing the game will keep you from enjoying the show more 
 or let you in on any new big secret.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: frag_1
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  Lost: Via Domus is more like a 7-episode TV show that sums up most of the incidents from the first 
 two seasons and adds a few new twists to the tale of LOST in the game. You play a journalist photographer, 
 Elliot Maslow who was involved in a sting to uncover some shady business down at HANSO Corporation. 
 The major objective of the game is to unlock his past as he gets amnesia after the plane crash. 
 We get a chance to explore the island not very closely though, coz of ye ol' Smokey, the smoke 
 monster bubbling its way all around the forest. The game mainly involves you searching for items 
 and building up conversations with fellow castaways to learn more about the island and possibly 
 about his past. We explore the island and see the various stations built by the DHARMA Corporation 
 that were shown in the second season of the TV show. But the most interesting thing, I found was 
 to be recollecting memories by taking a snapshot of the broken picture in your own mind which then 
 unlocks a piece of the story and leads the path to the end of the episode. I also liked the way 
 the game was presented like the show itself, like starting with "Previously on LOST" which recaps 
 what happened with your character while playing the game up to that point. This is also coupled 
 with how this is succeeded by the LOST sign board with the same chronic sounds. The game is quite 
 creative and different, is something of a First Person RPG and is based on the suspense genre rather 
 than the action genre because I seriously doubt that the "gunfights" referred to in the game are 
 anything but minor uses of the gun for shooting dynamite or killing the one assailant in the game 
 (for all practical purposes, though, the gun is hardly of any use) . The only two stretches of the 
 game I found somewhat interesting where the two chases/runs from the Others and ye ol' Smokey which 
 had an interesting pace to them. We spend most of our time solving meaningless fuse puzzles or 
 typing crap into the computer after taking dumb IQ tests (which btw are too easy) . You'll find 
 yourself, going through the game, completing it, solely to find out what happens next in Elliot 
 Maslow's life and not because the game is enjoyable. So, we'll be seeing our self playing this 
 game only for the story rather than the game itself, which makes the whole point of developing 
 this game quite "LOST" to say the least. Clicking photographs to unlock some artwork, well was 
 it worth it?? I'd say, ummm, NO. You'd expect some good stuff after clicking photo after photo 
 of useless things around you!!
  
  But seriously, this game turned out to really disappointing from any fans/ non-fans point of view, 
 after all you'd expect way better stuff from Ubisoft, after games like Prince Of Persia and Splinter 
 Cell and Assassin's Creed, each of which had a great PC version too. The game had many technical 
 flaws, the major one of which was the lip-synch (the audio was on track with the castaways most 
 of the time but hardly ever did it seem like it was actually them talking, coz of the unnatural 
 movement of their lips) . The expressions of the characters too were very uncharacteristic and I 
 would've never ever imagined Jack to be some kind of a Jack-ass but hey! the developers at Ubisoft 
 proved me wrong, didn't they? Never would I have ever imagined him of all the characters in the 
 show to be like that... Am totally dumbstruck by this change! Also, the graphics using the high 
 resolution textures helps to make things look great but the intermittent loadings in between two 
 small areas is really irritating. I mean the actual area on the island you actually move about 
 is actually quite small and yet, you have such disturbing and unnecessary loading periods for small 
 areas. The whole experience is soured by the unnatural sway of ways, in which the game, totally 
 changes shape and becomes quite tasteless towards the end. It's like a bad chewing gum that loses 
 flavor quite quickly. Not the best way to put it, but quite true.
  The game does provides you the chance to explore some parts of the island not seen on the show 
 before. And the storyline behind your character is quite the she-bang. The ending, somehow manages 
 to re-enliven the essence of LOST by leaving behind more questions than answers.
  However, the liquidated gameplay, the boring puzzles and especially the disturbingly droning and 
 slow chases by Smokey (coupled with hiding in between the Banyan trees) and the Others ("Gunfights" -- LOL!) 
 make this game a must-not-have experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 30, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  Story: Your a guy on a airplane. The airplane crashes. Survive.
  
  Missions: random objectives given to you by friends
  
  Controls: Mouse and Keyboard.
  
 
  Features: ok storyline, intresting concept
  
  A. I.: Not Horrible. They can carry on a conversation. 
  
  Loading Times: short, usually around 
 15 seconds when loading into diffrent areas.
  
  Graphics: They are not bad at all actually. The Jungle Enviroments are beautiful. The Enviroments 
 are very detailed and the charcters looks like they do on the TV show.
  
  Audio: Amazing. Voice acting is superb. Everything is good about the Audio.
  
  Multiplayer: 
 None
  
  Requirements: PC, An ok PC to run it
  
  The Good: Audio and story, some ok gameplay at times
  
  The Bad: Glitches
  
  The Ugly: A 
 Waste Of A Good License. 
  
  Replay Ability: Low
  
  The Bottom Line: a intresting concept but just is not that great like most TV/Movie games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manhunt92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 2:10 pm PT
Review:  LOST: Via Domus it's an amazingly awesome great game, but it's incomplete. For what you people 
 had heard, yeah it's too short (can be finished around 5 hours or even less if you are not the 
 "explorer" gamer) but that doesn't change the fact that it has a great-simple gameplay, an amazing 
 original story, great graphics, awesome videos, presentation, envolving enviroments, etc. A LOST 
 game could have been better yes, but Via Domus must not be missed by any Lost fan.
  
  Story: You're name is... well that's the thing; you don't know your name. You're a Oceanic815 survivor 
 that has lost his memory on the crash. Your mission: to remeber who you are and to get a way out 
 of the island.
  
  Gameplay: Via domus offers a simple third-person gameplay with some interactivitie with the original 
 cast of the series. You have an inventory too that you can earn by trading with other Oceanic survivors. 
 Also your camera will be with you in case you need a photo. And some times you'll hand a pistol 
 too.
  
  Presentation: couldn't have been better, it has the same as the series, you know; when you begin 
 a new chapter a man says "Previously on Lost" an shows some clips of what you have done or the 
 LOST letters closing to the monitor, the original voices all that it's awesome.
  
  Graphics: Excellent (Considering I couldn't play the game at the highest options) Evolving, and 
 make justice to the series. 
  
  To resume LOST: Via Domus can't be missed by any lost fan or even a normal player, it doesn't deserve 
 the rating Gamespot gave it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Gabman
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  A few month ago, I was going around the internet and I saw this game being announced. It didnt 
 take a minute that I wanted to know everything about this game! I have been watching Lost for a 
 long time now and the idea of a game seemed really good..... But not the way it came out......
 
  
  First of all, this game was very easy and was not worth the 60$ I payed for it. Look, if it was 
 a least a little bit harder, then it could have been worth more. Also, the fact that you play the 
 story mode as an invented member of the survivors????? Whats up with that? Why couldnt they just 
 make a game that had new intrigues but, with the same caracters??? The last thing that makes me 
 wonder why that desicion was taken are the voices. Don't get me wrong, some voices are really good. 
 But some are horrible. For example, take Sawyer. Is it just me, or does he sound just really really 
 bad? It made me want to turn off that game right away......
  
  Apart from that, the game is midly enjoyable but, if tou have already watched the show, most of 
 the punches seemed really obvious to me. Also, this game really isnt friendly to newcomers. I made 
 a friend play but he wasnt familiar to Lost. He got stuck at the hatch part.... He was totally 
 LOST..... And I cant blame him.... 
  
  Ths story in this game is, like I already said, clear for Lost fans but really unclear for casual 
 gamers. If one entire season has gone after three missions, this has to be bad for newcomers.........
 
  
  After all this, its hard to find a lot of good in the game. But, there are some things that really 
 made me think that this was a real Lost experience. For example, the caracters, though their movements 
 are kinda rough on the edges, still looks very good. The first time I saw Hurley, I quickly could 
 recognize his sweat stain..... 
  
  The environement, in general, is very Lost-like. The jungle looks neat, most big landmarks from 
 the two first seasons are there and, there are many videos that deserve to have the Lost name on 
 them. But, I kinda disliked the memory recover mode, were you have to take a picture to remember 
 a big event from your life.
  
  In conclusion, Lost is great looking game but, it's very rough arounf the edges and it's too short 
 to actually cover all the caracter's stories. You are gonna learn about your caracter....... But, 
 I think most lost fans would have preferred to control Jack or Sawyer instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jonwynn13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  GOOD BUT SHORT BUT WIERD BUT FUN BUT ANNOYING BUT LOL BUT UNUSUAL BUT IMMERSIVE BUT YAWN BUT DAZZLING. 
 Overall quite fun yet at the same time annoying... especially the same puzzle over and over again 
 just a little harder each time. It needed to be more like the show and have all the proper actors 
 doing the voices. If you could fully free-roam the island it would be much better. It should have 
 been made after the show had finished for good and all the places in the show could have been included. 
 It can be a good game when visiting the hatch and going beyond places in the show... they have also 
 done a very good job with the graphics.
  bbbb bbbbbb bbbbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbb bbbbbbbb bbbb bbbbbbbbbbbb bbbbb bbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbb bbbbbb bbb 
 bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbbbbbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbbbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbb bb bbbbbbb 
 bbbbbbbbbbbbbbb bbbbbbbb bbbb b bbbbbbbbbbb bb bbbbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbbbbb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BearsDeuce
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 24, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  It sounded like a good idea on the DVDs, I thought it would be cool when I rented it, but then 
 I played it and was unsurprisingly disappointed. 
  
  If you're a fan of the show, which likely means you're obsessed with all the mystery such as: The 
 Others, The Hostiles, what's down The Hatch, etc, then you'll love being a character in the game/show. 
 You can easily pass off your character as some guy who was always around but never on camera. (I 
 guess all his stuff hit the editing room floor.... and for good reason.) The game does an alright 
 job of re-creating the familiar sets, especially in the Hatch. 
  
  They tried to squeeze three seasons or so of television into one game making the pace of it ridiculously 
 accelerated. Furthermore, because the pace is so fast you'd have to have seen each season to even 
 get the slightest appreciation of what's even going on. Like another person commented, it's VERY 
 boring. It's far too linear, the conversations need to somehow be more natural, and a whole list 
 of things more that there's no time to mention.
  
  One plus I liked was the memory feature for your character. Using the camera to get the right snapshot 
 is what we all do when we try to find a context to trigger a vague memory. So that I found to be 
 really creative and unique.... and sadly maybe the best feature of the game.
  
  Like I've said, if you love the show you MIGHT like the game because you get to sort of be in the 
 show. But this was only a nice idea, and evidently doesn't go well on X360 or PS3. My 7.0 score 
 is being very generous just because I like the show.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chronos_ss2
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 23, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  The game itself is boring, there is really nothing to it. I recommend you rent (or demo) it before 
 you buy it. Graphics are ok I guess, the story is not so interested cause you already know what 
 happens most of the time from the tv show. There are no big surprises, it would have probably been 
 a good game if there never was a tv show, it would've been original and it would've been more interesting, 
 but since there is the tv show you really can't expect anything exciting to happen, since you've 
 seen it all, unless you've never see the tv show, but for those of us who have seen it on tv, its 
 all the same, and thus makes it boring.
  
  I think its save to say that I will never play a game that has been made from a tv show or movie, 
 well there are exceptions but, like I said, rent it first (or play a demo version) and buy it later. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caotico69
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 20, 2008 11:08 pm PT
Review:  I love Lost, and I love PC games. I have the best PC that socket 478/AGP/DDR can have:
  
  3.4Ghz
  2Gb Ram
  Video ATI X850
  
  And can't play the stupid game, this is LAME, why that 
 stupid Pixel Shader 3.0 for a non high end non demanding video game?
  
  Now if I want to play the stupid thing I have to upgrade to new mobo, cpu, ram, video? I even play 
 Bioshock, HL2 episode 1 & 2 and Hellgate: London with my config, and many other games.
  
  Stupid lame video cards like x1300 (lame) can run ir but I cant!
  
  I bet the game is worth 
 playing but how can they be so stupid on the video, It will like demanding DX10 to play, and is 
 not, is not like Crisys, a video upgrade game, is just an adventure low video demanding game, Have 
 someone any idea why the y such a stupid election on the video congif? not even the high demanding 
 guys of Crytech (Crisys) did something like that.
  
  Stupid Developers, Bite me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Necros_21
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 18, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  I love Lost, the series, so I thought I'd check this game out and it was a good decision. The story 
 is nice (with a really surprising and interesting ending) , the graphics are quite good, the game 
 has an immersive atmosphere. The music, as always is great but the gameplay should've been better, 
 along with the controls...
  
  The flashbacks are done very well, the main characters from the TV show are portrayed well by the 
 original or the stand-in voice actors, though in some cases they don't sound exactly the same but 
 many are really good. I didn't feel like they didn't fit their roles in the game. The models were 
 okay too, some better some not so much but overall I wouldn't complain.
  
  The gameplay is a bit boring sometimes but it's not too bad, the controls are the biggest problem, 
 I think, at least on the PC (all right, the long cutscenes that you can't skip can be annoying 
 too, especially if you have to watch them many times) . And yeah, it's short too, but you'll enjoy 
 every hour of it, while it lasts. I'd say Lost: Via Domus is mostly for the fans (I mean, come 
 on, haven't you always wanted to visit those well known places from the show? ;) ) but other gamers 
 should give it a chance too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XinemoneyX
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 16, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  This game was... interesting. I am a huge fan of the show so i was looking forward to buying this 
 game but now that i have it, i realized i should of rented it.
  The first 20 minutes were the best for me in the game, as you wake up in this amazing looking jungle 
 and see this hallucination of a woman you realize that this game is truly like a LOST episode. 
 
  
  Graphics are great, I'm playing it on the computer at the high settings and the jungle environment 
 looks greatly detailed, the lighting effects in the cave look great, and you really feel like your 
 THERE. There are some downsides to the sets for example the jungle space is small, the beach characters 
 are limited to the the main characters, i was hoping to see Scott or Steve, the whole layout of 
 the maps seems close together. in the jungle its very easy to get lost where you'll be following 
 one path that you think is right and then your told to restart your path this gets a little aggravating. 
 Hopefully in the next game they make it so you can take these random paths and actually end up 
 somewhere. 
  
  Gameplay is fun most of the time, there are times where you have to run between tree which act 
 as safe zones as the Cerberus or black smoke monster patrols around the jungle which is aggravating 
 and boring IMO, but thats just a facet of the genre. You can buy the gun pretty early on and it 
 is absolutely useless, you only use it once or twice. The bartering system is cool, but completely 
 understocked, there isn't enough stuff to buy, and a whole lot of stuff to sell. The flash backs 
 are nice, but get ultra-repetitive as you have to repeat the scene over and over because your not 
 perfectly focused or to far zoomed etc. 
  
  The story is great, really loved it. Although its not canon to the show it opens some doors for 
 theories about the island. It incorporates important scenes to remind you that your actually on 
 LOST not in some other island adventure. There are some downsides though, the time moves really 
 fast in the game, Michael is building the raft 2 days into the game. Also instead of shadowing 
 the storyline like in other games of this type it blazes it's own, which turns out great for the 
 game, but not so good for the avid fan. 
  
  Voices are silly. The actual actors who gave their voices, i think Desmond ,Sun, and Claire, are 
 only there for like 2 episodes at most. the ability to choose what you say really doesn't help 
 at all 
  
  in conclusion, good but very short game, could be great with the available material of the show. 
 It has some RPG elements that really look like they could make the game alot deeper but they are 
 shallow and really don't contribute anything. 
  Bottom line: Rent, or borrow, and i guess if you have mad money to throw around buy it, but its 
 good and you should play it if your a fan of the show. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: petef20
Rating: 1.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  The games of TV shows that I've played that I would class as decent are Buffy and 24. The main 
 reasons these work is because they can be made into action games while still staying true to the 
 source material. Lost unfortunately doesn't have that luxury. If you watch the show you'll know 
 that it's about the characters and the many mysteries on the show. True there are a group of hostiles 
 who appear to want to do harm to the plane crash survivors as well as a monster in the jungle, 
 but other than that you can't really make an action game out of the show.
  
  So how do they get around this? Well they try to incorporate explorative elements into the game. 
 The game comes off as meant to be a journey of discovery, which basically translates as boring. 
 There are elements of the game whch show a bit of promise, but these don't last. If more time and 
 effort had been put into this game it probably could've been quite good, but in the end it's simply 
 a quick cash with no enjoyment to be had.
  
  Firstly the good bits, well the passable bits (all three of them) . The trading system is a good 
 idea. You trade items with your fellow castaways, each worth a certain amount of money on the island 
 and so you trade whatever you need to up to the value of the thing you want. For example if a gun 
 is woth 150 on the island you can trade a book you found, some beer cans and a chocolate bar which'll 
 add up to the same price. This actually works pretty well but it seems that they've missed out 
 on an intersting gameplay point here. When you pick up the beer can the info on it actually says 
 "Sawyer would like this" or something similar. However you can just as easily trade it with Juliet 
 for the same value. If different items were worth different amounts to different people it could've 
 been an interesting idea that would've put the player's Lost knowledge to use.
  
  Then there's sections where you have to walk through the jungle. To keep these interesting (if 
 that's the right word) you'll either be shot at by the Others or attacked by the Black Smoke Monster. 
 Running and hiding from the Monster in particular is actually quite cool, as you have a real snese 
 of fear and have to keep an eye out for it. There's also a section where you have to sprint away 
 from it on a set path whilst dodging tree branches and other obsticles which is the closest thing 
 to "fun" the game has to offer. Of course as soon as you complement something the game manages 
 to mess it up. At one point you have to carry dynamite through jungle to blow open a door (not the 
 hatch from the season 1 finale, but a different one) . As in the show the dynamite is very unstable 
 and so if you run with it it'll explode. That's fine until you have to get past the Monster. Here 
 if you run the dynamite will blow you up and if you walk the Monster will catch up to you. This 
 is clearly bad design, but it's not the worst example in the game.
  
  Now onto the really bad stuff. There's a couple of times where you have to walk through a dark 
 cave and make sure your torch stays lit or you'll somehow be killed in the dark (it refuses to 
 tell you by what) . Despite this being very boring (like the rest of the game) even with a light 
 it's hard to see which way to go and on several occasions I managed to get turned around without 
 realising it and ended up going out of the tunnel the way I came in. The game seems to lean towards 
 exploration but the game's very linear and so that just doesn't work. There's not even a jump or 
 climb button to allow you to climb to more interesting areas or anything, it's simply walk from 
 one area to another. Then to another and another with nothing to enjoy about the experience.
  
  Of course this game is clearly meant for all those crazy Lost fans who simply can't get enough 
 of the show and could tell you the names of every main character as well as the order they appeared 
 and died on the show. As I fall into this category I can tell you that this game is not for the 
 fans. Firstly very few of the main cast lend their voices to the game (another thing both Buffy 
 and 24 have over this game then) . Considering the size of the cast on Lost it's understandable 
 that they couldn't get everyone, but even those that are in it don't have a big part in the game. 
 The characters you interact with the most are Jack, Kate and Locke. While Jack's stand-in does 
 sound quite like Matthew Fox the other two are rubbish. As far as the graphics go most of the character 
 models are pretty good, but some are fairly woeful. Hurley in particular looks far too plain and 
 his hair cuts through his body which is hugely noticable. But the lack of the proper actors and 
 some dodgey models isn't the worst thing about the characters. The worst thing is that most of 
 the characters simply aren't like their TV counterparts. They seem to think that just randomly 
 throwing in a classic line from the character will automatically work, even when it's out of context. 
 So basically they don't sound, act or really look like the characters they're meant to be which 
 makes the whole thing very unnerving. Also the timeline is completely off. In the second chapter 
 you go into the jungle and from the events on the beach it would be about the 2nd or 3rd episode 
 of the first season. Except by the time you get back to the beach someone's been killed which was 
 about the 15th epsiode and you certainly were not away for even close to that long.
  
  The point I'm trying to make here is that despite the fact that apparently the showrunners of Lost 
 were involved (although I'm guessing very little) this is a game that has been made by people who 
 are at best casual fans of the show. As it'll be the hardcore that buy this these mistakes are 
 simply unexceptable. The one thing that possibly comes close to saving it is that your character's 
 story is vaugley interesting. It's nothing compared to that of those on the show but it does the 
 job.
  
  From a presentation perspective there are some good things. Despite the overall poor voice acting 
 the sound design is really good. I thought that a lot of things from the show would be lost when 
 transferred to the game (the whispers particularly) , but they aren't. The Monster is the main thing 
 that stands out as you can really tell where it is from the sound effects. It also sounds perfectly 
 like its TV counterpart which really helps sell it. Most of the graphics are also quite impressive. 
 The greenery and foilage looks very realistic and moves wll as your character walks through it. 
 There's also somethng to be said for getting to explore areas of the show such as the Swan and 
 Flame station which does feel quite legitimate.
  
  However these small good things about it can't shake the fact that this game is a complete waste 
 of time. If you do insist on getting it simply rent it as it only lasts about 6-7 hours. I suppose 
 the game could be credited for not dragging things like running through the jungle out to prolong 
 the longevity, but that just implies to me that they felt sorry for anyone who bought this and 
 didn't want them to suffer anymoire than they needed to. So if you really want to see the ending 
 (which annoyed me intensely) then go for it, but whether you're a Lost fan or not you simply won't 
 like what this has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 73rd_survivor
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 11, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  My initial reaction to this game was 'God, this is terrible'. I'm a huge fan of Lost, and for the 
 first 20 minutes I felt disgusted. But after that I really started to enjoy the game. Once I forgot 
 it was 'Lost' and it was just some action-adventure game, it was fun. Very difficult, tedious, 
 hard-to-control, spend-a-lot-of-time-waiting, fun.
  
  G: Plot was amazing, I loved it. Good enough for the tv show. The ending was kind-of strange, but 
 it was better than what I thought was going to happen.
  
  B: Can't bypass cutscenes/character speech. Very annoying to watch the same scene over, and over, 
 and over... everytime you die. And you will die alot.
  
  G: The sprites look very realistic to their actor-counterparts. I enjoyed the fact that several 
 actors lent their voices to the game.
  
  B: Most of the fake actors sound funky. Most of the real actors make one appearance and disappear 
 for the rest of the game, which is disappointing.
  
  G: I felt that Ben and Juliet were pulled off the best. Kate also seemed very likable, and Sayid 
 was almost realistic. Locke was hit & miss.
  
  B: Most of the sprites talk like cartoons of the characters. Most characters were not very realistc. 
 Gentle Jack was a bulldog, Sun was a sand hermit, and Jin was just a coward stammering in English.
 
  
  B: If there are 47 survivors, and nobody is allowed into the jungle, why are there only 2 people 
 on the beach? Why does that sunny Hawaii beach look so dreary and colorless? Heck, when the plane 
 crashes, WhereTH are all the wounded?
  
  G: Man, I love the Swan station. It looked awesome. And that one level where you have to reset 
 the switch once was brilliant. (I was VERY happy that didn't happen every few minutes. It would 
 have been annoying and unrealistic.)
  
  G: Those fuse games are fun.
  
  B: Not enough reasons to use your gun. I bought 60 bullets and needed to use only 4?
  
  B: 
 Smoke monster walking level is VERY difficult.
  
  B: Initially, I spent about 20 minutes resetting the game to reset the graphics levels. A built-in 
 mode would have been more user-friendly.
  
  G: While I didn't enjoy dying and waiting a minute for the level to reset, I did enjoy the number 
 of ways you can die.
  
  B: The quality of gameplay is horrible; the controls are bizarre, sometimes you have to hit the 
 button 3 or 4 times before response. Some minigames are frustrating and will leave you clicking 
 the mouse furiously to 'capture the right image'. The instructions are never clear, and sometimes 
 blip past quickly while levels are loading. Your character is laggy and hard to control, even on 
 the lowest settings. Generally, everything takes too long to load, and you die too easily.
  
  Final Word: I can't imagine playing this game more than once. Okay, maybe twice if you're desperate, 
 but it's not worth $50. There's too many problems and this game really needed some beta-testers. 
 I'd rent it, don't buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2008 6:07 am PT
Review:  It is clear that Lost is so popular these days that almost everyone on Earth knows about it, watches 
 it & enjoys it. No wonder, it's such a strange, complex & captivating TV show that makes it so appreciated. 
 So Ubisoft took the licence & started to develop the game after the TV series. How it ended up 
 to be, lets find out together in this review.
  
  Graphics-10/10
  
  When I started the game, I said "WOW OMG!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!". Than I remembered Crysis & calmed down 
 a little. I first thought that it's CryEngine 2, but it's not, is Yeti engine. Strange. I must say, Lost 
 Via Domus doesn't look better than Crysis, but it sure looks a whole lot better than any other game 
 released up to this date. Especially those exotic environments on the island's dense jungle, but 
 also very very well chosen colors,& awesome textures everywhere. Two bad things here. Although characters 
 look amazingly real & full of life, the lip-sync is waaaay off the line.& the second thing: the water 
 looks absolutely horrible.& I'm not talking about the in-land rivers or waterfalls... i'm talking 
 about the ocean! But you know what is amazing about this engine? It works very well with maximum 
 details even on a not-so-high-end PC, which is a great thing indeed for those who haven't got "rockets".
 
  
  Sound-9/10
  
  Yeah, the narrator is the same guy. Few of the characters ( Claire, Ben , Desmond, Jack) sound like 
 the ones in the series, but many others don't, which is a really bad thing. We got nice & appropriate 
 music, very good sound effects, but the voice acting was maybe the most important part here & wasn't 
 done accordingly... well, Ubisoft hasn't got EA's money I guess...
  
  Story-10/10
  
  You all know the story behind Lost so I'm not going to describe it in this review. The character 
 you play it isn't to be found in the TV series. It's a new guy, with his own life that is explained 
 during the game. Well he's suffering from amnezia, so he forgot most of his past, but he remembers 
 it during the game (especially helped my his camera-flashbacks) . OK, good idea, but Via Domus' story 
 mainly follows the new character's path & course of events & negliges most of the other events 
 in the other character's lifes (such as the departure of the raft, relationships between the survivors, 
 Charlie's drugs incidents , Claire's kidnap & why not most of the deaths) . Sure, the newly added 
 character has an interesting life for himself, but the point in Lost is the lifes of all the survivors. 
 10 though because it's LOST after all.
  
  Gameplay-9/10
  
  Not revolutionary, but fresh. An action/adventure where you get to talk a lot, solve some puzzles, run 
 from the smoke monster & the guys who want to kill you & finding things/places. The dialogues are 
 not very good realised, & the trading sistem is dumb: why do they need dollars in the jungle, I can't 
 figure out. Oh well, some landmark photos you'll recognise from TV grant you extras. Cool. Oh & caves 
 are very atmospheric & quite scary after all.
  
  So Lost Via Domus is a good game overall, maybe the rating is a little bit too high but oh well, as 
 I've said before, it's LOST. If you liked the series, you'll like the game. If you haven't seen the 
 series..... than watch them,& only after that play Via Domus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoinMatze
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Give me back my time! Ok, it wasn't even much time I "lost", but after that ending I'm just furious 
 with rage. Oh, the pointlessness. And don't get me started on the money I've spent. I will try 
 to give it back tomorrow and say the my PC can't run it...
  Lost is without a doubt one of the best written and most intriguing series out there and season 
 four contained some of the best moments I ever had watching TV. But this has nothing to do with 
 Lost: Via Dum**ss. When I read the first reviews I didn't want to believe it. I thought you had 
 to review it from two perspectives: as a gamer and as a Lostfan. Sure, it will be a bad game, if 
 you have never watched an episode. Don't bother with playing it, because the game requires you 
 to have at least some knowledge about the Island. But I thought that Losties would just love it. 
 I just finished the game and it was so incredibly disappointing that it inspired me to write my 
 first review ever. 
  I'll start with the (few) good things: Apart from the graphics which are fine (most characters 
 look like the actors and the Island is beautiful) , the only good thing about the game is the main 
 character. I can't remember how often I've played a game with the amnesia scenario and it has been 
 done better but the history you get in the flashbacks fit to Lost. He has flaws and finally overcomes 
 them which is just very lostlike. At least that's what i thought before I saw the ending. 
  **spoilerrant** 
  Whoever made this game (and I hope neither Cuse nor Lindelof had something 
 to do with it) found this nice trick so you don't have to bother with the question if it's canonical 
 or not. Afterwards, everything is questionable. There's absolutely no point in the whole game: 
 Amnesia (clich but ok) - You find out something about the past of the character (that's just how 
 those games work) - everything you just found out was a dream?!? And it's not like in the movie 
 Identity where you realize something really cool at the end and have to watch the movie again, 
 no! Everything you did, everything you learned is redundant. And when I saw the plane crash over 
 Eliott I thought it had something to do with a timerift. Now that would have saved the game. 
 
  **end of spoilerrant**
  The gameplay is just as pointless as the story. It consists of mostly running. And then there are 
 two different kinds of puzzles: "finish that sequence" and some minigame where you have to put 
 different fuses in a panel to blah blah blah. Both are way too easy. No adventureelements, no real 
 multiple choice dialogue, no sneaking and definately no good action. You pick up stuff all over 
 the island so you can trade with sawyer. But the only things you'll ever need are a lamp, max four 
 cans of oil for it and the gun. Don't buy any ammo. I only shot two guys. Two!! I bought 90 rounds 
 of whoopie! So the tradesystem is broken as well. At least the controls work.
  What made the game even worse was that they tried to put as much famous quotes from the series 
 in there as possible. It just feels so forced and phoney. Which leads me to the voices. The characters 
 where the actors weren't available were done by standins. But I think you already read enough about 
 how ridiculous they sound. The music although is ok. 
  
  So let's sum it up: graphics are good, music is ok, voices bad, gameplay none, story none, replayvalue 
 -1. This is nothing but a piece of bad merchandise. A total ripoff. Don't buy this game. Don't 
 even rent it. Heck, don't even download it. I only give it 2.5 because of its graphics and it's 
 bugfree (yay) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hmfc_no1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  I was looking forward to this game so much after hearing it was in production, But i was far dissaponted 
 with the games length and a few other things i will mention. 
  
  I'll not go into great detail for the folks that haven't yet played the game but at the end i thought 
 it was gonna restart when you meet Lisa and then it ended shame! just shows theres gonna be more 
 though.
  
  I thought all the characters looked like everyone but the only one i found kinda off was Charlie 
 the rest was down to a tee in my opinion.
  
  There was a lack of guns only having a pistol, and you could only use this when there was gonna 
 be an enemy, I would have preferred to have been able to pop a cap in Jack or Syid for locking 
 me up or anyone i felt should be shot, and there should have been more than 3 times you had to 
 shoot.
  
  I would have liked it if you could fish, and build up your own little shelter with peices from 
 the plain and go hunting with Locke would have been cool.
  
  The game was slow at some points and the speech was off sync with the videos. when the game went 
 slow it was hard to control also.
  
  The Fuse boxes were quite tough and took up most of the game for me or the stupid Phsycological 
 test on the computer you have to do.
  
  If i wasnt a lost fan this game would have been really really poor.
  
  I would recommend to 
 download and not buy!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerozero17
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Puzzles from this game were mostly illogical, specially for the extras or achievements. How am 
 I to know that taking a picture of a beam of light will unlock such and such extra. Actually, this 
 is by far one of the worst games of this type. From character animation to movement restriction 
 to lenght of game to mostly illogical puzzles (some were fun to decypher I must admit) . As an example, 
 searching through debris on the beach. They all look the same yet some will become highlighted 
 and others won't. To me, it was worst than pixel chasing. I simply could not get to care for the 
 character or the story. This feels like just a way to make a quick buck out of a popular tv show 
 similar to the CSI serie. No depth to the game, just a quick buck. I quit after then read some 
 walkthrough and realized I'd missed so much content because it didn't make sense.... Oh! well, 
 I'm sure fans of the show might find something of interest here but try and buy it off a discount 
 shop or something or you might regret it..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gsusnme316
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  Powered by the very pretty YETI engine (Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2, America's Army) the 
 game does an overall fantastic job of setting the mood and atmosphere. Between the jungles sequences, 
 familiar areas such as the S. W. A. N. Station, The Black Rock, H. Y. D. R. A. Station, and of course 
 the Losties beach, during and after the initial crash, and once more after many of the "Lostie" 
 huts have been built, gives an overall good feeling of actually being on the island with our favorite 
 castaways.
  
  Aside from the obvious good atmosphere unfortunately the game has little to offer, the game play 
 is rigid and very linear, no free roaming capabilities whatsoever. (although at some point of the 
 game you CAN revisit locations via a quick jump menu after you've encountered them during the storyline 
 but... uh, whats the point?) 
  
  The Lostie beach serves as your central network hub, your safe area, your merchant quarter and 
 your source of information (by talking to the other survivors) but the only two merchants in the 
 game have little to offer, and you could easily get through the game without almost all of their 
 items, if you're even half way of a serious gamer you'll find yourself over encumbered with papayas 
 and coconuts and D. H. A. R. M. A. Beer with nothing to "spend" it on. 
  
  Apart from those very lackluster game qualities the "actor" movements a lot of the time seem very 
 stiff and just non realistic, though some of the character models look very dead on. Jack and Kate 
 specifically were well done, while some were just dismal (Michael, Hurley, Charlie) along with 
 voice acting. although a few actors lended their voice talents to the game (Ben Linus, Tom "Mr 
 Friendly"among others) most of the voice actors are wholly separate people, who should all be fired, 
 or shot. Jack, Kate, Desmond and Sayid all sounded really good, and unless I'm mistaken were not 
 the original actors, as for Charlie, Michael, Hurley, and (oh god) Sawyer and Locke, well, they 
 were the worst and it REALLY takes you out of the feel of the game.
  
  Apart form the mostly bad voice acting we have the actual game play elements, or a lack thereof. 
 Theres really only one thing you're going to do a lot, and that's look for fuses, then... plug the 
 fuses into electrical panels and rearrange them endlessly until it unlocks, whatever your trying 
 to accomplish. The fuse board game play element is this game s"puzzle solving" esque mechanic, 
 and is probably one of the least fun and overly aggravating things I've ever had to do in a game, 
 but you come across that every once and awhile, the thing is, It's what you spend at least 45% 
 of the game doing, so it's not forgivable. The "puzzle fuse board" or lumped into two categories, 
 "Laughably easy", or "I've been spinning the damn things for 25 minutes already!" Which leaves 
 little to be enjoyed. Aside from that you have "Chase" sequences where you're running through the 
 jungle being chase by smokes monsters, Others and whatnot, Tomb Raider Style (pressing the space 
 to "slide" under objects in your way or jumping over mounds of rocks and sticks) Aside from that 
 the game offer little diversity in your playing, everything mostly rooted in Resident evil style 
 exploring for most of the game.
  
  Lastly the only different game play element I can recall after having tried to repress most of 
 my time playing this game, is the highly annoying "Flashback" Sequences, of which how your character 
 remembers his past (oh yeah, you wake up with amnesia, clever right?) Being a photographer (and 
 apparently an electrician...) you remember sequences in your head but they are broken, you get 
 a flash of a torn photograph and you must stroll around in these flashback sequences and find the 
 exact spot and shot that makes up the torn picture and retake it. Incredibly easy at most points 
 but a little frustrating in a few sequences. Last but not least is the "Flag" jungle sequences, 
 where you're being chased by the monster and have to hide in the roots of Banyan tried to avoid 
 from getting killed by second hand smoke or something. You walked up to objective, e usually flag, 
 sometimes scrap metal and "use" the object and it point in the direction of the next one, and you 
 do this until you reach the next area. Lame, boring, mostly uneventful considering how easily the 
 monster is avoided.
  
  All in all the game has little to offer, even to die hard fans of the show. The supposed "Unlockable 
 features" are very disappointing and certainly not worth slapping down 50 bucks. With a rich atmosphere 
 and a good game mood, not much else is worth seeing in this horribly, horribly vision of a Lost 
 experience and I would suggest you spend your 6 hours and 50 bucks someplace nicer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkManiaN_1979
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 4:03 am PT
Review:  The graphics are really up to scratch, and the overall game play is fairly easy to jump into. The 
 new episodic material is well thought out and the shows main characters are all there including 
 Kate, Jack, Sawyer and Sayid to name a few.
  
  The controls can be clumsy at times on the keyboard and the lack of controller support is disappointing. 
 Although all the familiar Lost characters are in game, it was a shame to see that only one of them 
 actually voiced their character. 
  
  Overall its a good game that brings new episodic content from an already great show, but it lets 
 you down with a short story line which is able to be finished in under 8hrs of game play. The graphics 
 are great, but the clunky controls, camera controls and excessive loading times can diminish the 
 experience while your trying to immerse yourself in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calist0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 10:23 pm PT
Review:  Hy guys
  
  Here's my thoughts : first of all this game says nothing to the players who haven't watched Lost 
 series so in my opinion this category of players should not rate this game because is obviously 
 frustrating and can not understand anything from it. And if they are rating it, i do not expect 
 to be high grades. 
  
  This game is made only for the Lost series fans because the story in this game is a newer one added 
 to the original so if you do not know the original story in the movie it's simply a waste of time 
 because they will not understand anything from it. 
  
  As for me, i think the game is great, and probably the best game movie adaption with great graphics 
 and sounds. Speaking of graphics, the game is not well optimized so it runs a bit chubby on high 
 settings. I have a high end system and i did not have any problems with other games but this one, 
 so yes this is a minus for the developers, hope there is a patch on the way. But everything else 
 is OK, i love that i can interact with the rest of the castaways on the beach that it follows the 
 main story so good, and that on resuming the game there is a "previously on Lost" :) it gives you 
 a feeling that you are watching the Lost series and not playing the game. The story added in the 
 game is has the same Lost atmosphere and i think is a good idea, firstly i thought i would play 
 with Jack (the main protagonist of the series) and that i have to do everything by the movie but 
 i was wrong, the sorry is interesting and it integrates well in the main one. 
  
  There are some puzzles, some scares some shootings, i think it has it all for a action adventure 
 game. So if you didn't have seen the Lost series and this game seemed interesting - watch the movie 
 and if you have seen the movie then i hope you enjoy (ed) this game .
  
  Cheers
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: plastik01
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 2, 2008 2:54 am PT
Review:  ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! 
 ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! 
 ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! 
 ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! 
 ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! 
 ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! 
 ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! 
 ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! 
 ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! 
 ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! 
 ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! 
 ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! ooh yeah! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snokdruid
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 1, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  --------------------------------------------
  For more reviews like these, go to: www. cc2k. us
  --------------------------------------------
 
  
  When games that are based on TV shows, Films or books are released, the average gamer expects poor 
 quality at a high price. Sorry to say, but the LOST: Via Domus game does nothing but continue the 
 crap fest that is licensed games. Before you take any judgments, I'm making this clear: I have 
 only seen 2 episodes from the LOST TV show.
  
  Oceanic flight 815 from Sydney to Los Angeles suddenly loses control and crashes onto a deserted 
 island, or is it? Only you and roughly 6 people survive the crash. Whilst the others try to figure 
 out what is on the island, you have to try and remember you past. Soon enough, you and the castaways 
 are discovering supernatural places and creatures. You investigate.
  
  How could Ubisoft (the developer) go wrong with a story like this? Why of course, with boring and 
 repetitive game play! This game tries to be a puzzler, adventure, and role playing game all at 
 once. This means you will need to trade with other castaways, investigate, collect items and finish 
 mini games, it gets boring, really, really fast. 
  
  To move forward in the game, you will be placed in flashbacks where you have to take the correct 
 photo to remember your past, solve problems by entering a code, following markers in the juggle 
 or routing power to a door or object. That's all that the game offers, boring and repetitive game 
 play that doesn't even make you feel like you are stranded on a tropical island. The game skips 
 on the fundamentals of being 'LOST '. You don't even have to sleep, eat or find food and water 
 to survive. 
  
  Some of the game mechanics are absolutely terrible. While going through the forest I ran into a 
 hostile, he was holding an AK47 (an automatic rifle) , once he started shooting at me, the gun did 
 single shots and sounded like a sniper. Also, while traveling through a cave, you need a light 
 source to explore or you would die. I was at the very start of the cave where there was sufficient 
 light and suddenly, I died for no apparent reason. There are also plenty of graphical bugs, for 
 example, the outside of the plane cockpit was a different color each time I went to it. Hopefully, 
 a lot of long loading screens will help you forget about that.
  
  What the game does do well is recreate beautiful forests and characters. Every character from the 
 show looks almost picture perfect in the game. They also move well and have great facial expression 
 that makes the characters interesting to talk to. Voice acting is from all the original actors 
 which make it top notch. The forest has detailed vegetation, rocks and lighting that makes it interesting 
 to be in. You will be so excited the first time you get to explore the forest, however, the frustration 
 will soon kick in once you run into an invisible wall that keeps you from wondering off the one 
 pathway. 
  
  This game does tell a fabulous story which makes it feel right at home with the LOST TV show, however, 
 that's only one of few things Ubisoft got correct. If you're a fan of the show, you will definitely 
 enjoy most of it if you have the patience to go through the same repetitive game play. The game 
 does follow the TV show's story almost step by step but with an added character, so it could even 
 get boring for fans. If you are looking to buy a game to actually have fun, by all means, avoid 
 this one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pjpgallagher
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 1, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  This "Lost" game was in my mind terrible, im a big fan of the series and this did not come up to 
 even the slightest shot of acheiving my expectations and i wasnt expecting much. Yes, the graphics 
 are good, the characters do look like the characters BUT and its a big BUT (see the caps lock) 
 *big breath*, The VOICES! Oh my God! whyyyy? i'd rather just have subtitles for the other cast 
 members because it sounds like nothing like them. Locke sounds like Steven Gerrard putting on a 
 Gollum accent. The gameplay is sooo bad, you walk and run around, you hide from a monster, pick 
 up pointless items and trade them for others. The "mini games" which are seen as control panels 
 where you have to create enough volts of electricity using pointless fuses you find around the 
 place, and The same computer in the hatch over and over asking stupid questions relating to maths 
 of a 10 year old and english of a 4 year old. It takes up most of the gameplay time and thats not 
 much. The game itself is in the slightest relevance towards the actual show, no secrets are revield 
 and only a pointless storyline is created. the only things related at all to the show are the plane 
 crash, the hatch and the others. They lie when it says seasons 1-3 it only goes to the end of 2 
 unless it skiped 3... Enough of my rant, ADVICE: Rent the game if you wish.. Dont buy it. These 
 people dont deserve any money for the week they spent on making the graphics good.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 1, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  It's an adventure game, which means you'll be talking alot. And you'll. You play a brand new character 
 who's not featured on the show. The plot of the game and the plot of the show is pretty much the 
 same, and there are bunch of paralells, but still, it's not a hundred percent identical. There 
 are some plot points which are ignored in the game (every single death basically) . Yet to understand 
 what's going on in the game , you need to be up to date with the show.
  
  It's a pity, because with a little more explaination this game could very well work on it's very 
 own. Anyhow, adventure game, yes. Alot of talking, yes. But here"s the biggest con of the game: 
 No original voices! Why? There are a few (Claire, Emilie de Ravin, Sun, Yunjin Kim et cetera) but 
 most of the voices are fakes! And most of them are inaccurate... not to mention that the characters 
 you are going to interact with the most of the time are fakes. So despite Claire being Claire, 
 you'll probably talk with her... once.
  
  Apart from talking, adventure games are known for exploring. You'll be doing that alot too, but 
 here's the second biggest issue. It's very limited. Mostly due to the console nature of the game. 
 There are invisible walls everywhere, and you just can't really explore the jungle. In fact, it's 
 one of the most straightforward games I've played recently. 
  
  There are two obsticles apart from the main quest during the exploring. The black smoke monster 
 and the others. The smoke monster is integrated well into the game. It acts the way it does in 
 the show. Although it feels a bit forced at times for it to appear. I think it appeared more in 
 this game than in the show. The others on the other hand... they have huge stands and are shooting 
 at you no matter what. Sorry, that's just... not the way it should be. They are completetly different 
 in the show, I don't understand why this was done this way.
  
  But still, there are cool parts of exploring. You get to fully explore 3 Dharma stations, and boy, 
 they are awesome. Also, the parts where you get to explore caves are good. Pretty scary, great 
 atmosphere.
  
  Luckily, there are no "collect X amount of Y" missions. Collecting stuff is optional - good. However, 
 you still have puzzles. Well, a puzzle: but it repeats itself quite alot. Bioshock-esque pipe-connecting 
 thing, expect with a circuit board. It's fun at first, then mildly entertaining, but in the end... 
 it's just tiring. 
  
  Also, there are Dharma IQ tests that are neccessery to do - they are very fun actually. Adds a 
 nice touch to the game (Anyone remember Locke having to beat the computer in chess to gain access 
 over the Flame station?)
  
  The character interactions apart from the voices are great. The dialouge is pretty much all imported 
 from the show. 
  
  The character you play is very intriguing, and you have flashbacks too! And guess what, they're 
 playable. You need to take a photo in the right time at the right place to unlock your full memory 
 and then enjoy the cutscene of the flashback.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aflubenov
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  It was an oportunity to revert the history of the games based on tv shows, always are bad an this 
 is not an exception. The history of the tv show is too open to make lots of histories with each 
 character, i don't know why in this game you must play with an unknow guy that nobody knows.
  I was waiting a better game, with more action or with team play.
  Instead of that, you have a 
 slow game, with repetitive dialogs and too much cinametic scenes.
  Other thing, i don't know why Ubisoft, having the experience of Prince Of Persia made a game with 
 so bad animation.
  It was dissapointing.
  Also, it could be better if you must do task that the characters ask you to get elements of your 
 use than recollect fruits or water bottles for exchange.
  In the other side, if you want a game with nice graphics, good ilumination and a good recreation 
 of the really human characters, it is your choice.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TenaciousAds
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  WARNING: THIS REVEIW DOSEN'T APPLY TO EVERYONE SOME WILL LOVE IT.
  
  Good, fans of series but not to intresting for those not familiar to series not my type read and 
 find out if its yours. Great rpg+ (+ means if u like rpg's it's ur game - for not a good rpg) sticks 
 to story and a bit beyond+, VERY SHORT FOR AN RPG-. You are a survivor one not seen on the hit 
 T. V show graphics of other survivors is great. Good survival game+ it will keep u on your seat 
 if your not obsessed with the series+. If you are new it is Amazing-. 
  
  It keeps ur attension for about a week (minimum) and about 10 weeks (maximum) well it was for me 
 about 5 weeks because i'm slightly familiar with the series if you aren't it could be about a few 
 months but once you complete it you'll lose intreast quickly you won't feel like playing it again 
 and thats it. Its all there graphics and everything but theres nothing to exciting.
  
  recommended for survivalist game lovers, Rpg lover, and of course the lost lovers.
  
  Remember 
 this game won't keep you going for long so if you get it don't be expecting a masterpice just a 
 quick warning.
  
  The Good
  Graphics, Rpg, Beyond Story
  
  The Bad 
  You lose intrest quickly, Short, and useless when complete
  
  WARNING: i have completed it 
 in less than a week and a half and sold it and it was a major disappointment to me.
  
  WARNING: THIS REVEIW DOSEN'T APPLY TO EVERYONE SOME WILL LOVE IT.
  
  Your mate
  Tenacious 
 Ads 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barbuane
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 29, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  The game could have been so much more. Although we could say that almost about every game. However 
 the developers behind Lost: Via domus really dropped the ball on this one.
  First off. There is very little free roaming available to the player, with a show such as Lost 
 free roaming is almost a no brainer however Ubisoft really lets us down in that department.
  
  Second. The flashbacks were kinda lame. Almost pointless.
  
  Third. The game would have 
 been much better if they allowed several players in a co-op type arena where is you could create 
 your own character and have multiple ways of story to happen to give it some sort of replay value. 
 Kinda like if there were 4 different scripts to play out kinda deal.
  
  Fourth. the graphics are not anything to brag about, nothing more then a little better then a PS2 
 game, im not sure about 360/ps3 versions of game but once again Ubisoft fails in graphical department 
 on pc.
  
  All and all though if you look at it from Ubisofts point of view the only people that would be 
 more then willing to buy this game are fans of the show so their cheap dev ways are understandable 
 in this case and it does deliver on some fronts to a hard core fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kbrody
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  Being a fan of the show Lost, I was really looking forward to this game. However, Ubisoft left 
 us hanging a bit on this one. Hopefully, after the series is over, they will release a more open-ended 
 game that really lets players explore the island.
  
  On to the good and bad
  
  The GOOD
  
  Graphics, other than character models, are great. The jungle looks lush and rich, 
 the smoke monster ominous as ever. 
  
  Sound is fantastic, fans of the show will not be disappointed. The voice acting is a little weak, 
 and feels rushed. Surely they could have found a better John Locke. 
  
  The Story is very good. The whole game plays out like episodes of Lost. the episodes are fairly 
 short though. 
  
  THE BAD
  
  Bad voice acting , and bad character models.
  
  Short on game play and much to linear. 
  
  The photography flashback sequences can be a real 
 pain, which takes away from some of the fun.
  
  
  OVERALL
  
  Not a bad game for a game based on a tv show. Kind of reminds me of a Dreamcatcher low budget adventure 
 title I picked up a few years ago -entitled "Jack the Ripper" in that respect. Honestly, if the 
 story was not so good and I wasn't such a huge lost fan I probably would have given this one a 
 4, but being a fan, its nice to be able to play anything with the Lost Brand name attached. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davey2003
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 29, 2008 6:16 am PT
Review:  Years ago there was a game called Dragons Lair which for the time had brilliant graphics, speech 
 all the way through and looked and felt like a real life cartoon. However it has the most abysmal 
 gameplay ever, in fact it just felt like you were watching a cartoon for 30mins while occasionally 
 tapping a few buttons. Lost Via Domus hasnt leared anything from this at all.
  
  The story (what there is of it) is of a survivor of thw 815 crash (not in the show) who's lost 
 their memory and must unravel a few clues to get it back via pictures taken and taking to people.
 
  
  The intro of the crash is beautifully rendered and loks great, sound and music are also very atmospheric.
 
  However, once on the game field you start to notice the game plays like an episode of Lost, it 
 starts with the infmaous "eye shots", ends with a cliffhanger and the "LOST" logo etc as you go 
 advance. While this is novel, you cant help but feel your basically watching a long CGI video of 
 Lost rather than playing a game.
  
  Interaction with (the few) cast members is brief, for some reason when selecting text, your character 
 has no speech, yet everyone else has. Its a case of "run here, get this, bring it back, go get 
 something else and come back again" scenario. You also cant explore the island as there's invisible 
 walls all around the place, forcing you to go in one direction.
  
  Kate, Jack, Claire, Desmond, Hurley, Charlie, Ben and Juliet make appearances along with Michael, 
 Son and Jin. Locke also features in the game. The characters voices are partly real (Claire, Desmond, 
 Ben etc) while most are faked, why actors couldnt lend their real voices is a real let down, considering 
 how lifelike the character models are, the textures on this game are of the highest quality and 
 look fantastic.
  
  Graphics in Lost are great on a vert high end system, the jugle is lush, shafts of light break 
 through the trees, lighting effects from torches etc are realisitc and the smoke monster looks 
 as good as the show. But graphics can only go so far. What Lost essentially ends up as is a bunch 
 of min games thrown together. You have to go through caves with either a lighter, gas lamp or torch 
 (eventually running out) following a path, running against time, following (illogical) flags to 
 find your next destination or more often than not putting fuses in broken panels to get another 
 door working. These are infuriatingly bad, while a neat puzzle its simply doesnt make sense to 
 have them in the game around 5 times!
  
  Logic goes out of the window with Lost too, just like the show. Characters arrive on the island 
 in episode one, in episode 3 onwards you've already found a hatch, the others etc and feel like 
 your halfway through series 2 already. Fans of Lost wont find anything new, while to new Fans they'll 
 only be confused why things move along SO fast.
  
  You cant save in the game, probably because its SO SHORT at around 6hrs. The rendered cutscenes 
 cant be skipped, neither can the Ubisoft intro, or the worst mini game of all - taking pictures.
 
  While nicely done it just hasnt been thought out properly and you find yourself clicking on anything 
 to get onto the next part of the game, there's no direction what you must do, what you must take 
 a photo of and you have to be SPOT ON, making the scene laborious.
  
  Lost could have been a good game if they flushed out alot of the characters, puzzles and added 
 some new twists to make the player believe they're actually trapped, in the end, Lost ends up being 
 exactly like the TV show it tried to emulate, a good idea badly carried out and needs to end.
 
  
  
  4/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scvido
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 11:21 pm PT
Review:  well as a fan of LOST i had to go out and get this game..
  
  the good news is that this isn't another crappy TV to PC conversion the game is quality and the 
 story is great, the gameplay is a blend of exploration and action and of course some puzzle solving, 
 you run around the island doing what the stars in the show do, you try to recollect your memory 
 while helping the others.
  
  the faces of the game characters are some of the most realistic ever seen, KATE for instance looks 
 incredible at times i thought she'd come out of the screen, so goes for the other characters with 
 the exception of Sun and Sawyer perhaps nothing major though.
  
  if you like an entertaining game and you're a fan of LOST, you're going to love this one, i certainly 
 do and even if you're not a fan of Lost you might like this game, this is a half-decent TV 2 PC 
 conversion, i like it a lot.
  
  Recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teepagorn
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 28, 2008 10:47 pm PT
Review:  I have played this for 4 episodes so far. Story of Lost: Via Domus is somewhat like Lost, the TV 
 show itself, inspiring and thrilling, but the whole package wasn't as good as I expected. Jungles 
 and beaches look cool, but inside-the-building ones are mediocre. The game requires you to solve 
 many ridiculous pipe-like puzzles which is very annoying. One important part in the game is to 
 walk in the jungle, tracing a mark at a tree leading to another one, which is not fun at all. Even 
 you are a hardcore gamer who can tolerate 3d game for many hours, believe me this one will give 
 you a headache. 
  
  Frame rates kept dropping even on medium settings. Controlling is awkward which results from bad 
 porting from console. You will expect to be able to save your progress only at the checkpoints, 
 which are not clearly showed in the game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: oritonio
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 9:19 pm PT
Review:  First off Lets Get started on the Game Install and Engine itself. Wow this game looks amazing at 
 High settings, Jack it up to Super High and add in the HD textures and you in for a world of Beauty. 
 
  
  All this and on a 1/2 Decen Gameing System Athlon X2 4200+, 2GB Ram, and a Radeon 3850 (512mb) 
 all on a $35 Mobo and the frame rate rarely dropped below 40. 
  
  Infact I have only 2 problems with this game technology wise, Long load screens for some pretty 
 small areas, and the CG cut scenes are a mix match of Amazingly detailed like the openig movie 
 to avi's of scenes made ith the ingame engine.. in crap mode. 
  
  Usually CG cut scene or ingame cut scenes offer some extra beauty in many games. Ingame cut scenes 
 using More detailed textures in some cases, and the CG scenes being rendered on a different engie 
 all together. But here these feel slapped together as far as visual and rendered quality go. Granted 
 the Direction and acting is top notch.
  
  ok now for the gameplay... Basically alot of it feels like an interactive lost episode, but not 
 in the goodway like Xenosaga's ultra long cutscenes. It's more like an RPG with the adventure aspect 
 taken out. and your left only with the minigames, puzzles, and minor exploration.
  
  The game lets you back track a little, but it's mostly useless to do so. even for completests there 
 is not much here, and the rewards for the extras are lack luster.
  
  The mingames come in 3 flavors: Follow the arrows, Follow the arrows, while runng fo your life, 
 and then just runing for your life. I should not call these minigames as these make up a good 1/3 
 of the gameplay.
  
  Exploration isn't really exploration except in 1 or 2 points in the game. Exploring is getting 
 stuck in a 20X20 area, room, or dungeon, where you pretty much just collect all the fuses you can 
 find. Once you find tese fuses you play the same exact puzzle over d over again, but I will say 
 aside from a frustrating minute or 2 here and there, these were all pretty fun to figure out.
 
  
  There is some random SAT style puzzle which asks you to identify the pattern ie 1, 3, 5, 7, ? = 
 9 these offer some ingame fun options like *SPOILER WARNING!!!!!!!* opening and closing the doors 
 in the swan while turning black lights on and off to look at the maps********* END SPOILER***
 
  
  Story wise you get a little bit of info from talking to people, but pretty much eah character in 
 lost all say the SAME EXACT THING, witha random point here and tere or little bit of lost lore 
 revealed or hinted at so you knw where in the season the game relates to at tat point in the game. 
 but as far as what do do next the game holds your hand all the way through, so you are never Lost.... 
 ahem. Anyway allow me to repeat EVERYONE says the sae thig. ie. Locke: "You must believe you ca 
 get it" Hurley "You can get it Dude" Charlie "Go get it..... you all everybody!" Sun: *Speakng 
 in Korean*
  
  Now as for the Flashbacks these make for a nice mini game and progress very smoothly in difficulty 
 as te game goes on. I will assume you have read how these work. These are moderatly fun ad rarlely 
 frstrating. They get harder in a few ways: At first the game will set you up in about the spot 
 you want to be standing to take the picture, and put your subject right in front of you, and will 
 keep you in tiny area. then the game slowely makes the areas larger and puts you further away from 
 the proper angle.
  
  All in all I was Driven through this game from start to finish in a single 6 Hour sitting, mind 
 you a VERY satisfying 6 Hours... don't think of those 6 hours as a tiny gamepay length.. think 
 of it as a 6 hour lost miniseries, focused on 1 character, with a bunch of new secrets... but most 
 are answered and many old lost questions get a little bit more revelation. You even get to see 
 and hear about ALOT of things that happend in the show.
  
  Well one last thing before I go for all you none Lost fans or Lost Fans: Lite. You don't need to 
 know much abot the show for the story to work, but you will be alot happier if you have seen all 
 the episodes.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scabbed_Angel
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 28, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that I am a big fan of LOST. I watch the show faithfully, discuss theories 
 with friends, and get upset when the writers kill off a favorite character. That being said, I 
 didn't have high expectations from Via Domus, but I was hopeful.
  
  The story in Via Domus centers around an amnesiac survivor of Oceanic flight 815. You play as this 
 initially unnamed man, trying to recover your memories and survive on the island. Along the way, 
 you will talk with the more popular characters from LOST and visit a few familiar locations. All 
 in all, the story is very interesting and compelling, and could be compared to watching an episode 
 or two of LOST. Unfortunately, it could be compared too closely to an episode. Most of what you 
 will be doing is watching. 
  
  Via Domus takes "linear" to a whole new level. There are no choices to make, no areas to discover. 
 Either you complete the scene in the correct fashion, or you do it again. A good example of this 
 are the memory flashback sequences in which you WILL remember a portion of your memory by taking 
 a photograph of the precise memory. If you fail to take the correct picture the scene just loops 
 until you do. The entire game run like this, completely leaving out common sense." Wait. I need 
 to get by Jack, who is guarding the entrance into the jungle. From the beach. You are telling me 
 that there is only one way into the jungle?"
  Breaking up the story, are small mini-games and puzzles, which do pad out the game a bit, but allot 
 of the times make no sense in the storyline. In one instance, you are asked to speak with someone 
 behind a door, who is waiting for you. For some unknown reason, the power to the door is off, requiring 
 you to complete a fuse puzzle to continue. 
  Even traveling ends up being a mini-game. You are either following checkpoints that point you in 
 the correct direction, or if in a cave, conserving your torch or lantern, to allow you enough light 
 to get through. Of course if you do go off in the wrong direction in the jungle, you restart from 
 the last checkpoint. 
  
  Graphically, Via Domus is a mixed bag. The scenery is lush and beautiful. Characters for the most 
 part look accurate, except for Desmond, who looks mangled beyond belief. Locations have been carefully 
 created, and mirror those on the show. 
  What Via Domus gains in quality, it lacks in quantity. Don't expect to see any cast member that 
 is still not in the show to this date. In fact, do not expect to see more than a small handful. 
 Deserted is a good way to describe the locations in Via Domus. Right from the beginning, you will 
 wonder "where is everybody?" In the first sequence, the crash of flight 815, there are only five 
 people at the crash site. This continues throughout the game, and the amount of characters you 
 will meet can be counted on two hands. They are not especially lively either, usually just standing 
 or sitting in one place, even if they are screaming their head off looking for someone. When speaking 
 with them, they will spit out their line, usually without even moving their head.
  Aurally, the game has a few great pieces of music, that will help get your heart going in tense 
 situations. At least until you speak with someone. I am unsure if the voices for Kate and Jack 
 are actually the actors, and that is a very good thing. Everyone else however, sounds terrible.
 
  
  Every time the story or atmosphere pulls you in, another aspect of the game kicks you right back 
 out. All in all, Via Domus keeps falling flat on its face all the way through. Which thankfully, 
 wasn't very long at all. I finished it in under 6 hours, leaving nothing to go back for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skvan
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 8:56 pm PT
Review:  The good - Some very atmospheric parts, with a very Lost feel. The ending is really really good
 
  
  The bad - Far too restricted, the route to do things is very linear, you will not find yourself 
 wanting to replay the game to do something a different way as there is only one way to do anything. 
 Too short , took me a total of 6 hours to play and I am by no means a person that finishes games 
 quickly habitually. The game loads way too often and loading times are quite lengthy as well. Character 
 interaction is a huge disappointment, fake voices for the most part which do not sound very much 
 like the originals, in fact the originals voices do not sound much like the original voices either 
 now that I think about it. I think i could do a better impersonation of Charley than whoever it 
 was that did his voice. Hardest parts of the game had nothing to do with puzzlesolving as is normally 
 the case with adventures and lots to do with simple arcade running, jumping and timing
  
  Overall - Disappointing. Some good things in the game and it does have a Lost feel to it all, but 
 where were the side quests that could have added depth to the character interaction and some much 
 needed duration to how long the game takes and so adding value for money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PabloExobar
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 24, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  I'm a dedicated fan of Lost. It's probably my favourite show currently. I love it for 2 things:
 
  
  1. The characters -- they all have amazing depth.
  2. The mysteries -- all of 'em are incredibly interesting, intriguing and mind provoking.
  
 
  This game has both of those elements. So, in short: as a Lost fan, I find this game a superb one.
 
  
  However, let's be a little more objective.
  
  It's an adventure game, which means you'll be talking alot. And you'll. You play a brand new character 
 who's not featured on the show. The plot of the game and the plot of the show is pretty much the 
 same, and there are bunch of paralells, but still, it's not a hundred percent identical. There 
 are some plot points which are ignored in the game (every single death basically) . Yet to understand 
 what's going on in the game , you need to be up to date with the show.
  
  It's a pity, because with a little more explaination this game could very well work on it's very 
 own. Anyhow, adventure game, yes. Alot of talking, yes. But here"s the biggest con of the game: 
 No original voices! Why? There are a few (Claire, Emilie de Ravin, Sun, Yunjin Kim et cetera) but 
 most of the voices are fakes! And most of them are inaccurate... not to mention that the characters 
 you are going to interact with the most of the time are fakes. So despite Claire being Claire, 
 you'll probably talk with her... once.
  
  Apart from talking, adventure games are known for exploring. You'll be doing that alot too, but 
 here's the second biggest issue. It's very limited. Mostly due to the console nature of the game. 
 There are invisible walls everywhere, and you just can't really explore the jungle. In fact, it's 
 one of the most straightforward games I've played recently. 
  
  There are two obsticles apart from the main quest during the exploring. The black smoke monster 
 and the others. The smoke monster is integrated well into the game. It acts the way it does in 
 the show. Although it feels a bit forced at times for it to appear. I think it appeared more in 
 this game than in the show. The others on the other hand... they have huge stands and are shooting 
 at you no matter what. Sorry, that's just... not the way it should be. They are completetly different 
 in the show, I don't understand why this was done this way.
  
  But still, there are cool parts of exploring. You get to fully explore 3 Dharma stations, and boy, 
 they are awesome. Also, the parts where you get to explore caves are good. Pretty scary, great 
 atmosphere.
  
  Luckily, there are no "collect X amount of Y" missions. Collecting stuff is optional - good. However, 
 you still have puzzles. Well, a puzzle: but it repeats itself quite alot. Bioshock-esque pipe-connecting 
 thing, expect with a circuit board. It's fun at first, then mildly entertaining, but in the end... 
 it's just tiring. 
  
  Also, there are Dharma IQ tests that are neccessery to do - they are very fun actually. Adds a 
 nice touch to the game (Anyone remember Locke having to beat the computer in chess to gain access 
 over the Flame station?)
  
  The character interactions apart from the voices are great. The dialouge is pretty much all imported 
 from the show. 
  
  The character you play is very intriguing, and you have flashbacks too! And guess what, they're 
 playable. You need to take a photo in the right time at the right place to unlock your full memory 
 and then enjoy the cutscene of the flashback.
  
  Speaking of which: the cutscenes are worth playing this for. It progresses the plot which is really 
 good, and they have the same feeling as the show. 
  
  The controls are so-so. Again, it feels like it was optimised for consoles, which it was. There 
 are way too much button mashing (ha!) involved. 
  
  Graphically, impressive. Some characters could be modelled better, but the enviorment is really 
 amazing. I didn't think it was going to look THIS good. Unfortunately, there's a loading screen 
 almost every 5 minutes... thank you consoles. Again.
  
  The lenght of the game is... well, it took me 7 hours to complete. Not very long, but. It feels 
 like a giant interactive episode, and I doubt it was meant to be any more. I mean, did anyone think 
 that Lost could be turned into a game? I didn't, yet here it is... and it passed my expectation 
 level by a mile.
  
  If for something, then for the storyline it is worth playing it. And the ending: you're going to 
 be blown away! It's probably the most creative ending to a videogame ever, and well.. we all know 
 Lost for having amazing ending this is yet another grade-A+ Lost ending! Leaves you shocked and 
 thinking. 
  
  Overall, a superb effort. If it was shipped with original voices, and less console annoyances, 
 it could very well be one of the best adventure games ever, but even like this, it's pretty darn 
 good. Definitely a game worth playing for everyone who likes the show... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
