-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: M.A.X.: Mechanized Assault & Exploration
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/max/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  3, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.6
Critic Score: 8.5, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 142 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interplay
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Dec 31, 1996

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Command & Conquer, move over. M. A. X. does it better. 

 Real-time strategy games are the hot item among computer game players these days. The success of 
 games such as Command &amp; Conquer, Warcraft II, and Close Combat reveal the potential for similar 
 offerings. M. A. X., courtesy of Interplay, does all of these one better by giving players the choice 
 of real-time or turn-based gameplay. If you like the idea behind C&amp; C, you'll love what this 
 game has to offer. M. A. X. presents excellent visuals, excellent gameplay, and nearly infinite replay 
 value in a package that's hard to resist.  

 At its core, M. A. X. is a military conquest/resource management game. It opens with a cinematic sequence 
 that blows away the efforts of most other games. Following this, you're ready to jump into the 
 options. Options? We've got options: training missions, scenarios, random scenarios, campaignsall 
 available for your entertainment pleasure. The difficulty settings available for each mission include 
 opponent quality, turn limits, and real-time vs. turn-based. Once you've made your choices, the 
 game begins.  

 M. A. X. presents the game in a top-down SVGA view. Your task is to discover and mine resources on 
 the planet. As surveyors crawl over the landscape, you must continue to build your colony. Numerous 
 buildings are available for construction, from storage tanks to habitats for the colonists. The 
 large number of military units allows you to pursue the military strategy of your choice. In addition, 
 you can produce upgraded units from your vehicle factories. All of these aspects lead to a fairly 
 steep learning curve. Luckily, M. A. X. includes 14 training missions to bring you up to speed.  
 

 Let's not forget your opponents. Up to three other human (or computer) opponents are fighting over 
 the same planet. Expect your opponents to attack early and often. Learning the best way to stay 
 alive can be a trying task. Even when your opponents are clueless, they can still put up a good 
 fight. Combat involves the usual explosions and debris - nothing unique here. The sound effects, 
 especially the female computer voice, are excellent.  

 Command &amp; Conquer, move over. M. A. X. does it better, albeit with players spending much more 
 time learning the game. With numerous missions, a campaign mode, and multiplayer support, do not 
 expect this game to get old anytime soon. M. A. X. raises the standard for strategy games to a new 
 level.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Rylsadar
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  You must initiate a mechanized assault to colonize and explore several planets."M. A. X" is a turn-based 
 strategy game released by "Interplay Productions" in "1997". Featuring a level of complexity not 
 seen in today's strategy games,"M. A. X" has gained a faithful group of followers.
  
  The "Star Lords", have drafted humankind to fight their wars of planetary control for them. When 
 a dispute over a planet between two or more "Star Lords" arises, the conflict is settled by mechanized 
 forces and the victor's colonists can live on that world. The player assumes the role of a "Mech 
 Commander" (A human brain in a robotic shell) .
  
  Even though it's a turn-based game, you also have the possibility to play in real-time. In short,"M. A. X" 
 requires intensive strategic planning to succeed,
  needing to gather resources to manufacture units, structures and ammunition (Raw Materials, Fuel and 
 Gold) . The quality of the graphics was superior to most "2D" games available at the time (Command 
 and Conquer Red Alert) . Multiplayer games support up to four players, and the turn-based time limit 
 will provide a compromise between hectic commandos and slow deliberators. 
  
  If you're tired of graphical improvements with outrageous requirements, give this game a chance. You 
 won't regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mayoraldigital
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 10, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  One of the best strategy games that I have ever played. From the moment the menu screen appears 
 you know that this is a serious strategy game. The game does a great job of making you feel like 
 the M. A. X. commander. 
  
  As commander of a colony and with aid from an alien race you must colonize a planet by first mining 
 for natural resources. Then you build your colony by creating factories to build military and civil 
 vehicles. Finally you thaw out your people and train them as soldiers or spies that can take over 
 enemy units. You can even take control of alien vehicles that can heal themselves.
  
  M. A. X. is a very deep and engaging game. The best graphic for its time as well as great audio. 
 Amazing game play. Turn based and real time play are both possible. A strategy gamers dream.
  
  Interplay did go on to make a M. A. X. 2 game but it turned out to be a real dud. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neothelid
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 11, 2005 9:26 pm PT
Review:  As a veteran gamer, I could say I have played hundreds of different games... I have yet to conclude 
 whether that is something to be proud or ashamed of. However, in the end, there are exceptionally 
 very few games which I want to play again and again, at least once in a year, and M. A. X. is perhaps 
 the one I love the most.
  
  M. A. X. -abbreviation for Mechanized Assault and Exploration- can be defined in technical terms 
 as a tactical-level, turn-based colonization and conquest game. A typical game starts with you 
 in command of a mining station, a power generator, a few builders and a small number of fighting 
 units; to win, you must either completely wipe out your enemies or accumulate a number of points 
 defined when the game starts. The similarities with other strategy titles, however, end there: 
 every unit -from a puny scout to a missile cruiser- has a series of attributes that define its 
 toughness, speed, rate of fire and several other values, which clearly and precisely outline the 
 role it fulfills on the battlefield. For example, tanks do not pack a great punch but can withstand 
 substantial amounts of damage, and thus are best used in the front lines to soak up enemy fire 
 and protect the fragile long-range units that actually do the killing. Combat in M. A. X. actually 
 feels a little like chess: the AI employs clever strategies such as drawing your fire with expendable 
 units, and attacking when your forces have already fired their allotment of shots for that turn. 
 
  
  What gives this game a truly unique dimension is that any of these attributes can be enhanced either 
 by researching new technologies or by purchasing upgrades with gold. This allows for an incredible 
 variety of strategies -- for example, you could try approaches as different as enhancing your fast 
 units to make them fit some Blitzkrieg-like assault plan, or developing the ultimate defenses to 
 create the 4th-millennium version of the Maginot line. 
  
  The graphical interface of the game is nothing special -- a screen and a sidebar crammed with buttons. 
 It has some very cool features, though: first and foremost, the ability to zoom in and out almost 
 at will. While no self-respecting RTS would ship without such a feature nowadays, it was almost 
 unheard of back in 1996 -- and, trust me, you are going to use it a lot. The models and graphics 
 still are amazingly detailed, even if at the moment of this review the game is almost ten years 
 old. The units lose none of their charm even after completely zoomed in, a feat rarely matched 
 even by modern games. 
  
  The sound is excellent, too. Weapon fire, building and vehicle explosions, the mechanic humming 
 of functioning installations
  --all are superb and sound realistic. The female computer voice disappoints me a little, but now, 
 no units require crew here, so it makes sense in the end. (While M. A. X. has many different tanks, 
 airplanes and ships, there are only two distinctively humanoid units in the game -- infantry and 
 infiltrators.)
  
  M. A. X. successfully introduces a limited form of the concept of supply lines: as every unit has 
 a limited amount of ammo, you have to protect your trucks as if they were worth their weight on 
 gold, or you will be in for a nasty surprise when, a few turns after the assault on the enemy stronghold 
 starts, your units begin to run out of ammunition. It is a pity the developers did not expand on 
 this idea and forced you to have to refuel your units, but hey, it is the 4th millennium -- by then, 
 I imagine even a fusion engine will be a relic from times past.
  
  It is kind of difficult to find any flaws on this masterpiece; if I have to name one, I found the 
 AI to be a bit weak, even on the ultimate difficulty setting. Even against an ultra AI that is 
 going to probe your defenses continuously for weaknesses using every means at her disposal, going 
 Maginot is a winning strategy if you pay attention to all the details. (Don't try this approach 
 against a human player, or you will be squashed by a horde of tanks.)
  
  All in all, this is one of the best, richest and most replayable strategy games I have ever played -- I 
 have to admit I am waiting anxiously for some developer to try again the utterly complete customization 
 formula proposed by this game. Highly recommended for those who love old-fashioned turn-based games 
 like Panzer General. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raynor
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 21, 2005 4:53 am PT
Review:  MAX is a turn based strategy game that is really quite a lot of fun to play if you like building 
 cool base defenses. You start out with a mining station that brings in minerals (for construction) 
 and fuel (a resource needed for your power stations) and a power generator. Your first three units 
 are a Constructor for building large buildings (like mining station) , an Engineer for building 
 smaller buildings like storage, connectors, etc and a surveyor that can spy out new sources of 
 resources. In addition to minerals and gas, there is also a gold resource that can be used to buy 
 upgrades for your units.
  
  The combat in the game is very well-defined. Your units have a range, an attack strength, armor 
 rating, number of attacks and number of hit points. When an opponent is in range, you fire. The 
 amount of damage is attack minus armor equals damage. I know that sounds very simplistic. But I 
 just can't tell you how frustrating it can be in other games where you can't figure out why your 
 units do so little damage to the enemy.
  
  In my mind, the really fun part of the game is building your base. You can built gun turrets, artillery 
 turrets and missile turrets for defense against ground units. You can build anti aircraft turrets 
 for defense against air units. Against sea units, well, you have to build a sea unit factory to 
 crank out the corvettes that can detect submarines and other sea units to detect surface ships.
 
  
  Each unit has a certain sight radius called 'SCAN'. One of the really fun things about the game 
 is how the enemy will find a hole in your base defenses where you have a gap where the enemy can 
 get close enough to damage your base defenses without being seen by your base defenses. In other 
 words, you might have a gun turret that can fire much farther than it can see. Similarly, the enemy 
 has missile turrets that can fire even farther than your gun turret. If you don't have your detection 
 grid setup properly, then you may suddenly have an incoming missile destroying your base defenses 
 without any idea where it came from.
  
  All-in-all, it really is a fun little game that I continue coming back to play.
  
  Unfortunately, 
 the AI was really quite poor in the first version of the game. The developers "beefed up" the AI 
 but at the cost of stability. Now, the game ALWAYS crashes after 'X' number of turns. Still, despite 
 that horrendous problem, there really isn't another game like this out there. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
