-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mace Griffin Bounty Hunter
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/macegriffinbountyhunter/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 31, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.6
Critic Score: 5.8, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 6.5, 90 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: MumboJumbo
Developer: Warthog
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Jan 7, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite the game's derivative nature, lack of multiplayer, and slightly dated technology, there's 
 a fairly entertaining shooter experience to be had here. 

  Mace Griffin Bounty Hunter is a futuristic sci-fi shooter that diligently follows in the footsteps 
 of the futuristic sci-fi shooters that have come before it. Though it touts a nice blend of standard 
 first-person shooter action and space-shooter action, the game continuously evokes either the general 
 feel or specific elements of other futuristic sci-fi shooters. Mace Griffin was originally released 
 on the PS2 and Xbox almost a year ago, and it was passable for a console shooter then. However, 
 competition for shooters is tougher on the PC, and Mace Griffin can't match the level of polish 
 or inspiration found in other recent games -- or even the games it draws from. Yet despite the game's 
 derivative nature, lack of multiplayer, and slightly dated technology, there's a fairly entertaining 
 experience to be had here.  

          Fans of futuristic sci-fi shooters have probably already played Mace Griffin Bounty Hunter -- or 
 some close approximation of it.     

  The game limps out of the gate with significant exposition about the future history of the universe 
 and Mace Griffin's specific botchery. The picture it paints is of a pretty standard industrialized 
 future where space corporations squabble over space mining rights, and space crime is a constant 
 problem... in space. When we first meet Mace, he's a part of an elite force of space police called 
 the Rangers, though shortly thereafter he's framed for the slaughter of his squad and is quickly 
 sent to space jail. By the time he gets out, the Rangers have been discredited and disbanded, and 
 the only thing on Mace's mind is revenge, though the game takes its sweet time uncovering the conspirators. 
 To bankroll his vengeance, Mace goes into the bounty-hunting business by taking on a series of 
 seemingly unrelated jobs and slowly learning about the conspiracy responsible for his incarceration 
 (and the scale of its nefarious plans) .  

  Each of the jobs that Mace takes on is represented by a large and largely self-contained mission. 
 Though the isolated missions give the story a disjointed feel, the action is pretty good, and each 
 mission has its fair share of nicely sized firefights. These small-scale set pieces would undeniably 
 be more satisfying if the AI were more consistent. Sometimes enemies will exhibit some sort of 
 preternatural space-sixth sense by reacting to you before they can even see you, so they'll actually 
 roll behind cover and then start lobbing grenades. Other times, you can walk right up and pump 
 a few rounds into them before they'll even show you enough courtesy to turn around. The game compensates 
 by placing enemies in hard-to-reach places, and, later on, by simply giving enemies bigger guns 
 and making them harder to kill. However, the kills would've been more satisfying if the enemies 
 were just smarter.  

  Mace Griffin also falls back on jumping puzzles pretty often, which can be frustrating at times. 
 This is partially because the jumping mechanic sucks and partially because the visual clues the 
 game gives you can sometimes be a bit unclear. There are also several countdown-clock sequences 
 where you'll have to disable a series of bombs, reprogram a ship's navigational computer, or simply 
 try to get to your ship before the rock you're on explodes.  

  The missions that the game strings these elements into are lengthy, with some of the more-epic 
 missions coming close to the two-hour mark. Considering the way the game breaks up the missions 
 into more-digestible chunks -- with load times tucked into hallways, caves, and ventilation shafts -- it 
 wouldn't have been unreasonable for the game to be a little more liberal with the hard saves, which 
 it only doles out at the beginning and end of a mission. Save for the unreliable jumping mechanics, 
 the game's controls give you standard first-person shooter mobility and are appropriately responsive. 
 The set of weapons you'll brandish is pretty predictable, and it includes a standard handgun, a 
 sniper rifle, a minigun, a few types of grenades, a rocket launcher, some energy weapons, and a 
 shotgun that looks as though it was wrestled right out of Master Chief's cybernetic hands. In another 
 nod to Halo, Mace Griffin borrows that game's rechargeable armor system.  

  When you're not running around space temples, space mining installations, or space luxury cruisers, 
 you'll be engaging in space dogfights, usually just outside of these gravity-stricken environments. 
 Being able to go straight from shooting guys in the face to shooting guys in space has been one 
 of Mace Griffin's major selling points since it was first announced, and with this in mind, the 
 space combat sequences don't really constitute a significant portion of the game. The mechanics 
 of the space combat are simple, but they're still kind of viscerally satisfying. Instead of being 
 this major component, the dogfights end up being another trick in Mace Griffin's bag, which is 
 all right.  

  Visually, Mace Griffin Bounty Hunter feels like a bootleg amalgam of stuff the designers saw in 
 Red Faction, Halo, and Unreal -- and then decided to appropriate for themselves. These are fine, 
 fine games to take inspiration from, but developer Warthog doesn't exhibit the same assuredness 
 in its design as the developers of the games it draws from, and a lot of the game ends up looking 
 pretty cookie-cutter. To be fair, there are occasional spots of inspiration. The most notable example 
 is the group of technology-worshiping cult members who all wear masks with flat-panel screens that 
 display an iconic happy face or an iconic frowning face, depending on mood. The game basically 
 looks the same now as it did when it first came out on the PS2 and Xbox in mid-2003. It's got a 
 clean look to it, but the somewhat boxy environments make the game feel dated. With the higher-resolution 
 capabilities of the PC, Mace Griffin hasn't looked any better, but even at its best, it still just 
 looks OK.  

          Henry Rollins, star of The Chase and Johnny Mnemonic, puts in a bored performance as the 
 voice of Mace Griffin.     

  Mace Griffin has a matching mercenary sound design to it, in that it gets the job done but lacks 
 creativity. The weapons sound convincing, from the curt blast of the shotgun to the high-speed 
 whine of the minigun. Various ambient space hums and sound effects help flesh out the environments. 
 Oddly, Mace himself doesn't make much noise when moving about, and his footsteps are whisper-quiet, 
 though if you listen closely you can hear him breathing heavily while running. Your enemies have 
 a limited number of phrases they can blurt out during the game's action, but most of the voice 
 acting is relegated to the cutscenes using the game engine. Actor, musician, and spoken-word performer 
 Henry Rollins provides the voice for Mace Griffin, and his performance here is the very definition 
 of "phoning it in." His delivery is consistently low-key and monotone, and instead of sounding 
 like he's grimly serious, he just comes off sounding completely uninterested.  

  Despite being a rough composite of about a half-dozen other first-person shooters -- but without 
 a lot of personality of its own -- there actually  is  something to Mace Griffin. However, one of 
 the biggest hurdles for the game, at this point, is the fact that there have been an inordinate 
 number of really great PC first-person shooters released in early 2004, thus making Mace Griffin 
 Bounty Hunter rather forgettable in the grand scheme of things. But if you can get past these factors, 
 you might just have some fun with it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: no1alboogie
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 17, 2004 10:05 pm PT
Review:  I don't care what anybody else says, MACE GRIFFIN BOUNTY HUNTER is a pretty good game. It's one of 
 the fist games I've run into that you can easily and smoothly go from first person shooter to space 
 combat. It definatly needs alot of credit for that. The game itself does have it's ups and downs 
 though. As far as gameplay goes, it's above average. The AI is pretty good. The graphics in the 
 game play were pretty good, but it looked like alot of the cut-scenes were made a couple of years 
 ago, but still not bad. The story was alright, probably not an academy award winner though. Some 
 of the real downsides of the game were; the saving system, you can't save just anywhere, you can 
 only save where the game wants to save. That kinda sucked because if you screwed up before the 
 computer saved you somewhere close, it could set you back about 3 or 4 battles back that you'll 
 have to do all over again and try to survive with some decent life left. Needless to say, everytime 
 that happens, you've added about another 15 to 20 minutes more to the actual play time. Other than 
 that my only real hangup was that I couldn't get my joystick to work with it, the mouse was alright, but 
 I would have preferred using a joystick. Overall, again I think MACE is a very good game, and I'd 
 play it again. Those of you still in doubt, just give a few months, the price will probably drop 
 some, it's good, give it a shot. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
