-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Machines
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/machines/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 27, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.2, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 77 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Acclaim
Developer: Charybdis
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Mar 31, 1999

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This 3D real-time strategy game features enough dazzling visuals for several games of its type, 
 but it's hampered by its been-there-done-that gameplay and poor unit intelligence. 

 If we are to believe movies like Terminator, humankind's destiny ends in destruction at the hands 
 of nefarious machines. If this is to be, let's hope the hyperintelligent robotic brains look to 
 late-20th-century real-time-strategy artificial intelligence to govern their military tactics. 
 At least we might have a fighting chance. Case in point: Acclaim and Charydbis' Machines. This 
 3D real-time strategy game features enough dazzling visuals for several games of its type, but 
 it's hampered by its been-there-done-that gameplay and poor unit intelligence.  

 After the fourth world war, humankind's biggest threat becomes overcrowding, as significant medical 
 advances double the life-expectancy rate. When the need for additional resources arises, humans 
 launch numerous "seeder ships" and machines to colonize and harvest alien worlds. A hundred years 
 pass; the machines continue to collect resources and evolve, but humans never arrive to join them. 
 Exhausting all resources, the machines move on to additional worlds, and, after many years, two 
 machine "races" encounter one another in a distant star system. During the confrontation, an artificial 
 intelligence defect causes a galactic war to break out among the machines.  

 Machines follows basic real-time strategy principles and only breaks the mold with its 3D engine 
 and camera angles. Gameplay involves collecting building material units (BMUs) , then utilizing 
 them to research new technology and construct military and builder units. Several basic units are 
 provided, with the more powerful constructors and offensive machines residing high up the technology 
 tree. Unlike the similar Warzone 2100, Machines places greater emphasis on resource collecting 
 and base management. Transports, locator bots, smelters, and mines must be constructed to keep 
 the BMUs flowing and your coffers full.  

 It's obvious the age of 3D real-time strategy games has finally arrived; Machines' 3D-accelerator-only 
 engine boosts some impressive special effects. Units are completely three-dimensional, and most 
 are wonderfully animated, particularly the spider-like reaper and the intimidating gorilla (one 
 of the coolest-looking RTS units ever) . Those are the standouts, though, as many other units look 
 extremely similar to each other and lack discernable features. Unit weapon effects fare better, 
 with a scattering of bright laser beams and smoke-trailing missiles, all with ample doses of colored 
 lighting and adequate sound effects. Terrain features are sparse, with only the occasional small 
 hill or valley to liven things up, and terrain height appears to have little effect on strategy 
 or unit abilities.  

 The visuals really shine in Machines' two free-floating-camera options. Included are the zenith 
 camera, the default isometric perspective providing the best view of base layout, and the ground 
 camera, a field-level perspective that places you in the middle of the action. But, while the ground 
 camera provides an amazing viewpoint, core game elements, like base and resource management, become 
 nearly impossible. Machines also features a first-person perspective and, much like Activision's 
 action/strategy hybrid Battlezone, lets you hop into and control any of your units. Again, an intriguing 
 gimmick, but one that's not useful, or integral, to gameplay - the machines are too sluggish to 
 control effectively, and you have no way of controlling other base functions while in this view. 

 Where Machines falters most is in the single-player campaign and unit intelligence. The solo missions 
 feel more like loosely connected skirmish levels than a cleverly woven campaign. With little continuity 
 (often you must research the same technology over and over across several missions) and even less 
 storytelling, Machines' solo offering lacks the rewards to inspire you to continue onward.   

 
 As for unit intelligence, the computer-controlled opponent offers little challenge, typically tossing 
 a wave of two or three units at your defenses, rarely doing significant damage until later levels 
 when the quantities are greater and the technologies more powerful. Unfortunately, your own troops 
 aren't much better. A simple three-setting "initiative" meter can be adjusted, but it doesn't affect 
 important gameplay aspects like BMU transports moving to a new mine once their designated resource 
 has been exhausted or a healing machine acting on its own to mend your troops. Instead, they just 
 sit there, waiting patiently for your orders.  

 Poor unit pathfinding, a bane of real-time strategies, rears its ugly head once again. BMU transports 
 move slow and often get hung up on one another and other base structures when trying to reach their 
 assigned mine or smelter. Further, when ordering your military units around the map, getting them 
 to actually follow the order can be a patience-trying task. Units will stop for no apparent reason 
 or navigate so poorly around objects or terrain features that they'll fall significantly behind 
 the rest of the pack. And the lumbering, mech-like gorilla seems to occasionally walk on an invisible 
 treadmill, a frustrating occurrence during a hectic battle. Pathfinding issues are compounded when 
 engaging in one of the indoor missions; the structure's layout, filled with narrow corridors and 
 tight doorways, is enough to send your machines into pathfinding overload.  

 Pitting your Machines skills against up to four human opponents can be accomplished over modem, 
 serial, LAN, or TCP/IP connection. In addition to those protocols, a matchmaking lobby has been 
 set up at Microsoft's Internet Gaming Zone - so finding an online adversary shouldn't be too difficult. 
 Multiplayer gameplay has some interesting features, such as the spy unit, which can covertly plant 
 explosives in enemy structures, and the need to build special locator units to discover resources. 
 Numerous options and game styles (including "gorilla jousting") help diversify the action and strategy, 
 but apart from the 3D engine and colorful visuals, not much new ground has been broken here. There's 
 only one army of machines to choose from - though the colors are different, each player receives 
 the same units and technology tree.  

 For players new to the real-time strategy genre, Machines might be a worthy entry point. The single-player 
 game starts off quite easy and doesn't really offer a challenge until well into the campaign. Veteran 
 players, however, won't be impressed, apart from the camera angles and pyrotechnics, and will be 
 less forgiving of the game's pathfinding and AI shortcomings.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: predatorGS
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2008 4:20 am PT
Review:  Hi,
  
  This game was my first RTS game, it made me consider to play other RTS games as well. Now after 
 8 years, I still haven't found a game slightly similar. It was one of the first real 3D RTS, with 
 the very special ability to control every unit in the game.
  Sure for today, the graphic are really dated, but the gameplay ain't
  The units are the same 
 on both sides (only color differences) , but it makes the game very balanced. (btw, the units are 
 cool)
  I am glad someone made a XP-patch, because without one, I wouldn't be playing this game anymore.
 
  
  If you find this game somewhere, buy it. Play it (without judging the graphics) and you'll see 
 how much fun this game is (or could have been, if there would be a Machines 2) .
  
  I ask myself all the time when a new RTS is developed, why not implement a first person view? (1 
 worldwar2 RTS game did a fairly good job, but I forgot the name) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MickeySteroid
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 15, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Machines has many elements that make it simialer to roleplaying games such as Warcraft and Starcraft. 
 You make your own armies and battle your opponents with them. Except Machines is mre of a futuristic 
 game than a medieval game. The robots each have their own abilities and weapons. Some robots have 
 abilities such as healing and reapairing' others have weapons such as lasers' rifles' and rocket 
 launchers. Basically what you have to do to take out the enemy team is destroy their pod. These 
 pods can be protected with automatic guns or your robot army. Some of the levels in the game are 
 extremely big while others are just so small. The campaign mode allows you to command your army 
 through certain missions just like Wracraft and Starcraft. Some of the missions require you to 
 use certain bots in order to complete the mission. You can play free mode and just have random 
 battles or you can even battle your friends online. The graphics are pretty nice for when the game 
 was made. The sound effects and music aren't so bad and the many gameplay modes makes it last a 
 while. The storyline is pretty original and enjoyable but its not great. Anyways Machines has a 
 nice mix of roleplaying elements and futuristic things. It might not be as good as Warcraft but 
 it is pretty fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spencerlink
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 14, 2003 10:36 pm PT
Review:  This game has been extremely underestimated in earlier reviews.
  
  It is not dark and bloody. It involves only machines who fight one another, but each faction has 
 no unfair advantage since they all share the same technologies. This makes it a perfect game for 
 younger people or those new to real-time strategy gaming. Perhaps it broke no new ground in terms 
 of a revolutionary new concept, but the execution was brilliant, and the graphics still hold their 
 own after several years have passed.
  
  It is necessary to locate underground deposits of resources in order to build better and better 
 facilities and units. This indeed requires some strategy, since you can get way up the technology 
 tree, but suddenly have insufficient resources to build what you need, while your opponents chip 
 away at all of your progress. Also, if you settle a base for resource mining, but it is not guarded 
 well enough, you can lose it to an enemy attack.
  
  The save game feature is excellent, surpassing many games that have come along since.
  
  This 
 game deserves some special recognition, because while it involves a kind of fighting, is has no 
 sinister tone or feeling to it. Since it involves machines and not humans or animals, there is 
 no surrogate feeling of lives being wasted as the conflict progresses.
  
  If you are an experienced gamer, you may have a tendency to dismiss this as a simple game, but 
 it is not. There are plenty of ways to keep it interesting, like the ability to enter a single 
 unit, and get right into the fray. It also has the added benefit that you don't have to be an experienced 
 gamer to start enjoying RTS computer games if you can just find yourself a copy of this game.
 
  
  The challenge is that it would be hard to top the strengths of this game without making it too 
 difficult for many players. Perhaps with an adjustable difficulty level, and some minor variation 
 in the types of units available, everybody could enjoy hours and hours of entertainment from one 
 of the best game concepts around.
  
  Hello, developers, is anybody listening? 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
