-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Madagascar
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/madagascar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Solid platforming gameplay.
 A good rendition of the film's plotline.
 Unlockable minigames and items.
 Voice acting is well done, despite the lack of original actors.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some annoying control issues.
 Ridiculously easy difficulty limits its appeal to the younger set exclusively.
 Mostly unimpressive graphics.
 A short adventure without much replay value.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  9, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.3, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 199 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Beenox
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date:     May 24, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Madagascar is a short but endearing adventure that will be immediately appealing to the adolescent 
 gamers in your household, whether or not they've seen the movie. 

  Activision's video game version of DreamWorks' latest computer animated comedy,  Madagascar , is 
 one of those rare movie-to-game translations that manage to be good even if you've never seen the 
 film. Unsurprisingly, the game is a kid-friendly platformer that retells much of the film's story -- throwing 
 in some more adventure-centric sequences for the purposes of gameplay -- replaces all of the film's 
 star talent with soundalike voice actors, and generally doesn't take too much thinking or time 
 to complete. What is somewhat surprising is that the gameplay is pretty solid for a game aimed 
 squarely at kids, the voice actors do a good job of capturing the inflections of the film's characters, 
 and the game features a nice boon of unlockable content to make up for the short quest. By no means 
 is Madagascar the next big thing in platforming, but as far as kid-friendly fare is concerned, 
 it does the job.  

          What's with this bipedal nonsense? You have four legs for a reason!     

  Madagascar 
 tells the story of a group of eccentric animals living in the New York City zoo. Marty the zebra 
 isn't content with his city life, finding himself in search of a way out of the zoo. His friends 
 include Alex the lion, a self-assured, somewhat prissy creature that fancies himself the "King 
 of New York"; Melman the giraffe, a perpetually paranoid and hypochondriacally ineffectual fellow; 
 and Gloria the hippo, an oafish, yet somehow dignified lady beast. The three of them are quite 
 content with their life in the zoo, but when Marty hooks up with a group of penguins running a 
 covert escape operation, the four find themselves on a journey that takes them away from the comforts 
 they've known their whole lives and into the wild and unfamiliar jungles of Madagascar. This is 
 pretty much the plot of the film to the letter, and the game does a good job of taking the same 
 kind of goofy humor from the movie and translating it into a coherent and periodically amusing 
 game plot. It's unlikely to have you rolling in your seat or anything, but for a younger audience, 
 it's well suited.  

  The game is a by-the-numbers platformer, in which you can take control of Marty, Alex, Melman, 
 Gloria, and one of the penguins during different levels. The basic controls for each character 
 are the same, though each has his or her own unique attacks and special abilities, which can be 
 earned by collecting special power cards scattered about each level. Melman, for instance, can 
 perform something of a helicopter spin that works as both an attack and a way to float through 
 the air a bit longer after jumping. Alex, on the other hand, relies on an intimidating roar to 
 knock enemies out of the way, and he can double jump. It's all customary platformer stuff, but 
 what's interesting about Madagascar is that it provides a pretty good variety of stuff for you 
 to do. There's plenty of jumping around and item collecting, of course, but there are also some 
 decent combat sequences and a couple of supereasy but fun stealth sections. The game even provides 
 some unlockable minigames you can buy in a special shop, including shuffleboard, minigolf, and 
 a rhythm-based game in the style of Dance Dance Revolution. Though they're simple in execution 
 and not long on lasting value, they're fun for a while.  

  More-seasoned players, however, aren't going to get much out of Madagascar. The gameplay, while 
 solid, isn't built with an experienced player in mind, so the action does tend to get repetitive 
 and is supereasy across the board. The whole game shouldn't take any platformer fan more than five 
 hours to beat, which, while reasonably lengthy for a kids' game, isn't long for the average game. 
 It also doesn't help that the controls are a little on the clunky side. Character movement is sometimes 
 problematic, because the movement control doesn't seem as responsive as it ought to be, and the 
 camera has its moments of stupidity. These are issues that younger players are not likely to get 
 up in arms about, so for the kids, the gameplay is more than satisfactory.  

          If Madagascar proves anything, it's that penguins are adorable, even when they're engaged 
 in covert ops.     

  Unlike most movie-to-game translations of the last couple of years, Madagascar doesn't feature 
 much footage from the film during the game. Almost all of the scenes were done in-engine, which 
 is certainly beneficial from a storyline standpoint (since the developers could just rework whatever 
 they needed to make the game flow better) , but it's not as good from a visual standpoint. The graphical 
 engine employed in Madagascar is merely OK. Character models maintain the cute, goofy look of their 
 film counterparts, but the environments are generally not as pleasing to look at. The textures 
 are mostly flat and unpleasant, and a lot of the environmental designs repeat over and over again, 
 to the point where it seems like you're running through the same level more than once. The audio 
 fares better, largely due to the solid voice acting. Ben Stiller, Chris Rock, Jada Pinkett Smith, 
 and David Schwimmer did the voices for the movie, but they didn't do the voices for the game. The 
 soundalikes were all up to the task, however, and apart from the guy trying to do Chris Rock (who 
 sounds more like Jimmy Fallon channeling Chris Rock) , they all turned in solid performances.  

 
  It probably doesn't shock you that Madagascar would be squarely aimed at the younger set, but 
 the fact that the developers have done a good job of making a game out of the film's storyline, 
 rather than creating a cheap cash-in on the film's license, is pleasantly surprising. It's a short 
 but endearing adventure that will be immediately appealing to the adolescent gamers in your household, 
 whether or not they've seen the movie. And if they have, all the better.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Bad_Boyl2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 4:39 am PT
Review:  Just like all of their games. Bright, joyfull, meant for younger players. Easy, all the way. But 
 it was so short! Could of added more content that wasn't in the movie to lengthen it, like other 
 games they have made before. Great game.
  
  Gameplay:
  Control your favorite characters from the movie from puzzle, hopping over city cars, defending 
 your self from wild natives, and having a great time. From collectig herbs on an island to fighting 
 your way out of a zoo! You never expect your zoo animals to escape and get so far!
  
  Graphics/Sound:
  Fine, the graphics were fine. Sound was fine as well. Don't need too much here, 
 this game wasn't even deisgned for older players. Younger players won't mind much at all about 
 this, maybe except music. But Music is good.
  
  Great one for younger players. Just as good for older players, but try to keep it until you reach 
 that age when you don't want to play it no longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taraboi1
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 17, 2007 2:14 am PT
Review:  So, first the movie, now the game. Actually they're both very funny, but the game is way too short 
 like i said. It took me less than 5 hours to finish it. Anyway i can't be too critic about it because 
 it was verry funny and I laughed all the way through the game, even if it's very childish. The 
 graphics are quite friendly, the environments are even friendlier and the characters too. Even 
 the enemies seem friendly. Plus that kids are lovin' it ;) I'm not a kid but i love it too because 
 it's funny, but i hate it because it's too short. In conclusion, Madagascar is a balanced game, 
 that tends to be better than worse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: violet_is_3
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 20, 2005 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Well, Madagascar is a fun animal game. Its about 4 animals, that break out of a zoo, in NYC, and 
 wind up in where else, but Madagascar! I am not the best at games, but it didnt take me long to 
 learn the controls! I would recommend it to fans of the movie, or anyone for that matter, even 
 if they are under 10..... The graphics are good, and same with the sound. The levels are fairly 
 hard too. The last one is a killer. It was short though, but there is also mini games to play. 
 Like Shuffle Board. Its addictive and if you dont watch out, you might be playing it for hours. 
 *laughs*
  All in all, I would suggest everyone to give this game a try, and watch out for that Fossa King!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mehfuz
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2005 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Madagascar is a game about four animals who breakthrough from zoo.
  There are four main characters in the game - Alex the lion, Gloria the
  hippo, Melman the giraffe, 
 and Marty the zebra. All the four characters
  are nicely desinged and looks great. Each of them posses different personality and specials abilities, 
 their actings and dialogues are funny and fun to watch and hear. Every level, object, environments 
 look great and fantastic. Levels are large and full of trees, flowers etc. There are 11 levels (zones) 
 in the game, each contains sub missions. The game contains several music tracks all of them are 
 sounds good 
  It's another game where you have to collect lots coins. You need these coins to unlock different 
 appearance of the characters, minigames, and extra life from the shop. There are 3 mini-games available 
 in the game. Tiki Mini-Golf, Shuffleboard and Lemur Rave. You have to unlock the map to the games 
 before you can play, 
  You can purchase these games from the Zoovenir Shop with the Monkey Money (coins) . All three games 
 are very nice and fun to play-especially the mini golf. You can play these games with 2-6 players. 
 The one and only things in the game that sometimes bored me is the jumping, 
  you have to do lots of jumping in the game, and Jumping with the melman is frustrating and boring. The 
 controls are fairly easy and there are only few buttons (4) requires for game to play. Besides mini 
 games there are some arcade (video) game machines in the game ( i have found
  3 so far) . These games are a good and nice addition to the game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
