-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Madden NFL 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/maddennfl2001/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  2, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.9, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 109 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Genre: Football Sim
Date:     Aug 24, 2000
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The flaws in the passing and running game prevent Madden 2001 from being completely enjoyable or 
 realistic. 

 The exciting 1999-2000 NFL football season came and went. Steve Young played the final game in his 
 illustrious NFL football career, Barry Sanders retired from the Detroit Lions, and the Rams unexpectedly 
 won the Super Bowl. Now the start of the 2000-2001 season is imminent, and with it comes the latest 
 in EA Sports' Madden NFL football series, Madden NFL 2001. But compared with the 1999-2000 NFL 
 season, Madden NFL 2001 fails to generate as much excitement or deliver as many surprises.   

 
  The most apparent and much-needed change to the Madden series featured in Madden 2001 is the improved 
 graphics. Madden 2001 uses player models that are significantly more detailed than those found 
 in last year's game. Linemen now have sizable jiggling stomachs, linebackers are muscular brutes, 
 and wide receivers are lanky. The players' facial features are now clearly visible, and some of 
 the real-life players' faces are in the game. You'll also notice other minor details, such as reflective 
 helmets. These details on the new player models are welcome additions, though Madden 2001 doesn't 
 give you much of a chance to admire them unless there's a replay or a touchdown celebration.   
 

  The stadiums also look somewhat better than before because of the crisper textures and less pixelated 
 fields. However, Madden 2001's upgraded visuals don't come without a price. Though it ran quickly 
 on GameSpot's primary Pentium III test system, those with slower computers will have a difficult 
 time getting a consistently smooth frame rate out of Madden 2001.   

  Unfortunately, there really isn't any new animation to complement Madden 2001's new visuals. The 
 motion-captured jukes, tackles, first-down taunts, and back-foot passes are all taken from Madden 
 2000, and they seem out of place in Madden 2001.   

  The in-game commentary is equally disappointing. Pat Summerall does a fine job of throwing in some 
 generic play-by-play lines interspersed with a few specific observations, but John Madden is nearly 
 nonexistent. In a five-minute-quarter game, John Madden spoke only a few times. His lack of participation 
 leaves much to be desired if you're a fan of John Madden's unique anecdotes and observations.  

  But the real appeal of the Madden series has always been its gameplay. In this respect, Madden 
 2001 is very similar to its predecessor. You can still choose from all the standard formations 
 like pro-form, shotgun, and the weak or strong I, but with the addition of actual coaches and their 
 playbooks, some teams won't have access to certain formations unless you change or edit the coach's 
 playbook to accommodate the formations you prefer. As in Madden 2000, most formations in 2001 offer 
 a number of different sets, so you have access to a wider array of plays within each different 
 formation. It's not really new, but the user interface for play calling is still easy to use.  

  The running game in the Madden series has vastly improved over the past few years, and apparently 
 an effort was made to refine it even further in Madden 2001 - but a few major problems prevent 
 it from being completely successful. Thanks to the improved computer-controlled blocking on the 
 offensive line, it's much easier to get to holes in the line or to recognize when a hole won't 
 be available, thus forcing you to look for an alternate path to gain extra yardage. Unfortunately, 
 there are situations that require you to get your running back through a nearly collapsed hole 
 in the offensive line, only to find that he gets caught on a lineman and can't run in any direction 
 if a new hole opens or a better route is made available. This wouldn't be a problem if linemen 
 surrounded you on every side or you were attempting to push forward through the line, but it becomes 
 very frustrating when you're trying to avoid a quickly collapsing hole and you're in a small-yardage 
 situation.   

  Madden 2001's running game also suffers from some serious control issues. The difficulty of making 
 a cut upfield without the use of the juke button is nearly unbearable on halfback toss or a similar 
 play. When you call a halfback toss and you see that your receiver has the cornerback blocked on 
 the inside, you want to be able to make the cut upfield to avoid the corner and beat the linebacker 
 to the gap. It's just too hard to perform the maneuver quickly enough, so your running back will 
 either run into his own receiver or get tackled by a linebacker as a result.    

 Even the passing game in Madden 2001 has a variety of problems. When you throw a ball far down the 
 field to your receiver, the ball doesn't actually follow a trajectory that lines up with the movement 
 of the receiver, but instead, the ball just magically appears in the vicinity of the receiver. 
 This doesn't drastically affect gameplay and it'll be the least of your worries, but it shows that 
 not much effort was put into the physics of throwing the football, and it makes some receptions 
 look very awkward and ugly as a result.   

  A more glaring problem with Madden 2001's passing game is the overall lack of consistency with 
 the passing. Oftentimes a receiver will be wide open six yards down the field, only to drop the 
 ball when it's thrown to him when there are absolutely no defenders in sight. In fact, receivers 
 running hail mary routes down the field in tight coverage seem to catch passes more often than 
 receivers running short-yardage routes. Apparently, the individual attributes of each receiver 
 do come into play, but when the inconsistency occurs on several different teams numerous times 
 with both high- and low-quality receivers, it becomes frustratingly clear that it isn't a player-specific 
 problem. This imbalance in the passing game can also take the fun out of a multiplayer game if 
 an opponent abuses it.   

  For the most part, defensive play is the same as it has been in the past few Madden games. However, 
 this year Electronic Arts has added a brand-new buzzword to its Madden marketing dictionary: read-n-react 
 defense. This feature lets you quickly adjust to the offensive play set whether it looks like a 
 run or a pass play. In essence, your linebacker either moves closer to or farther away from the 
 line depending on which option you call - and that's it. Of course, you could avoid read-n-react 
 altogether by taking control of the linebacker yourself or by choosing a defensive player near 
 where you think the ball is going to end up.   

  Fortunately, Madden 2001 does have one major redeeming quality: its online play features. You can 
 connect to EA. com's online gaming service by creating a screen name and password or by using a 
 preexisting instant messenger account. You can then decide if you want to scrimmage, participate 
 in the ranking system, start an online fantasy league, or just chat. The service works well, and 
 it takes very little time to get a game going in either the scrimmage or ranking modes, though 
 starting your own online league requires a little more time because the league commissioner must 
 set up the fantasy draft and then build a game schedule.   

  If your connection is slow or often encounters problems, you won't get entirely disconnected from 
 the game, which will give you a chance to reconnect. But the match will continue regardless of 
 the status of your connection, so if you're on offense you should expect a few delay-of-game penalties. 
 The online mode, or more specifically the online franchise mode, really gives a tremendous amount 
 of replay value to Madden 2001.   

  All of the usual features found in previous Madden games can be found in Madden 2001. The single-player 
 franchise mode from Madden 2000 is back, and it gives you the ability to draft players, negotiate 
 contracts, and sign free agents. You can also participate in some of the greatest NFL games ever 
 in the great-games mode, though you must win a game to unlock the next. Madden 2001 also includes 
 the great create-a-player feature, where you can edit size, weight, skin pigmentation, jersey number, 
 and more - but as with so many other Madden 2001 features, it's been done before.   

  Madden NFL 2001 makes it clear that EA wanted to improve on the last game in the series. Most notably, 
 it offers the most complete online football experience available, as well as scrimmage and ranking 
 modes. But many other parts of Madden 2001 seriously lack polish. The flaws in the passing and 
 running game prevent Madden 2001 from being completely enjoyable or realistic, which will disappoint 
 fans of the series as well as those who are experiencing Madden football for the first time.   
  
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Goliath_unit
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 20, 2006 7:39 pm PT
Review:  The Madden football series is arguably the best football series around. It has really blossomed 
 since the beginning of the millenium. We now turn our attention the Madden NFL 07, which I am excited 
 for to release. But enough of the newer Madden games, I am looking at Madden NFL 2001, the first 
 Madden game to officially to have an actual football player on the boxcover.
  
  Madden NFL 2001 is a surprisingly fun and enjoyable football game, with many positives to it, changing 
 Madden NFL 2000 a lot, such as cleaner graphics, more realistic gameplay and so much more.
  
  The first difference you'll find in Madden NFL 2001 is cleaner and better graphics. In Madden 
 NFL 2000, the player models were so-so and appeared sluggish and drunken at times. But in Madden 
 NFL 2001, the players models are smoother and more colourful now. Even the detail on your football 
 players is now better, with all new equipment added to them.
  
  Another new improvement in Madden NFL 2001 is the create player option. Now, the attributes are 
 now set by a slider, which is much easier than holding the arrow like in Madden NFL 2000. You can 
 now also set your players college, and even set up their equipment. Make your QB look more like 
 a QB with QB gloves, and to make him sound even better, make him from USC or Notre Dame.
  
  The Great Games option has clearly changed now. In Madden NFL 2000, there were 10 games. Now in 
 Madden NFL 2001, there are around 35 great games. The Great Games option is also where I give out 
 my first complaint about the game. The first game is where you use the '57 Lions vs. the '57 49ers 
 and you have to rally Detroit from a 27-7 defecit to beat the 49ers. First, it still is Madden 
 and Summerall telling the broadcast. Summerall was a placekicker for the New York Giants during 
 the '57 season. The goal post was right on the goal line back then. It also gets funny in Great 
 Game #2, when you play the classic game, the '58 Colts vs. the '58 Giants. Summerall is broadcasting 
 and playing at the same time!
  
  I also do agree with some of Gamespots complaints. Many times I throw the perfect pass to a player, 
 then he drops it! I also have the problems running the ball.
  
  I also did encounter a glitch in Madden NFL 2001 that easily ruined it for me. The sound just disappeared 
 completely, and now the players look horrible with no hands and no face. Such a game ruined!
  
  That is the reason why I don't have anything on sound in my review, and why I kept Sound at 
 7, because I am just not sure about it.
  
  I still do say that this is an awesome Madden football game on the PC if you have an old PC like 
 I do. If I did, I probably would have Madden NFL 2003, but I'll stick with this one, it is still 
 a great football game, no matter how old it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kc0lcs04
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 7, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  I bought Madden 2001 somewhat recently, after having played Madden 2000 for awhile. The difference 
 between the two is immense. Madden '01 has a totally new menu system, new rap songs, and better 
 graphics than last year's. There is a downside though... the cheats. There aren't any super power 
 cheats in '01 like there was in 2000, and you have to unlock each historic team; in Madden 2000 
 they came standard. 
  
  Other than that, perfect game for the PC. This is the highest game my computer can take (Madden 
 2002 doesn't work on mine) , and it's simply awesome. I'm doing a Franchise with the Denver Broncos 
 now, and enjoying that a lot. 
  
  Gameplay is pretty cool, though they've kinda downsized the ability of the juke from 2000 to 2001. 
 It WAS kinda fun burning someone with a juke, but that's ok. I can handle that.
  
  Overall, an AWESOME game. Perfect for the football fanatic in you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cgw798
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 7, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  Madden 2001 for the PC is a great game. If you don't like the classic Madden gameplay, however, 
 I would not recommend it as much. I, myself, didn't like the old Madden gameplay, but when I got 
 Madden 2001 for my PC, I was hooked. The franchise mode is highly addictive and what I consider 
 to be the best part. I would recommend this game, once again, if not for another reason... That 
 there are much more recent Maddens, the most recent being Madden 06, which I highly recommend for 
 the Xbox 360. The gameplay in 2001 was somewhat of a "downside" to the game, but it was still fun. 
 The graphics were good back then, bad now. The sound of the stadium and announcers, as well as 
 the on-field sounds were all pretty good. This game you can find in a bargain bin for a very low 
 price, so the value is great. I really enjoyed this game and I think that if you gave it a chance, 
 you would too, the only problem being that there are more recent, improved versions of Madden in 
 the market.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yankeeswin24
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 24, 2005 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Madden 2001 for the PC is a great game. If you don't like the classic Madden gameplay, however, 
 I would not recommend it as much. I, myself, didn't like the old Madden gameplay, but when I got 
 Madden 2001 for my PC, I was hooked. The franchise mode is highly addictive and what I consider 
 to be the best part. I would recommend this game, once again, if not for another reason... That 
 there are much more recent Maddens, the most recent being Madden 06, which I highly recommend for 
 the Xbox 360. The gameplay in 2001 was somewhat of a "downside" to the game, but it was still fun. 
 The graphics were good back then, bad now. The sound of the stadium and announcers, as well as 
 the on-field sounds were all pretty good. This game you can find in a bargain bin for a very low 
 price, so the value is great. I really enjoyed this game and I think that if you gave it a chance, 
 you would too, the only problem being that there are more recent, improved versions of Madden in 
 the market. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
