-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Madden NFL 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/maddennfl2005/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 23, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 8.4, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 447 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Tiburon
Genre: Football Sim
Date:     Sep 14, 2004
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Madden 2005 is just a bit too much like last year's Madden for comfort -- but it's still a truly excellent 
 game of football all around. "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"  
       Madden NFL 2005 Review for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 
 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =                    After The Fact:  Reviews Revisited 
        What's this?               Update:  Servers Offline    Posted: Nov 5, 2008 4:31 pm PT   
    Toward the end of 2006, the online service for this game was shut down by EA. &nbsp;        
        

  As the best-selling football franchise on the market for an umpteen number of years, Madden NFL 
 is a name that is known by the masses as representative of some of the best football you can get 
 on a video game console. Last year's Madden NFL 2004, in particular, is revered as one of the best 
 installments EA has ever brought out -- which ultimately makes it a tough act to follow. For this 
 year's edition, Madden NFL 2005, defense is the name of the game. Nearly all the additions and 
 tweaks made to this year's game fall squarely into the realm of defensive football, and they're 
 all great new features. The downside to this high emphasis on one particular area of the game seems 
 to be that the remaining aspects of the game (of which there are many) are generally only slightly 
 improved or altered, if at all. In many ways, Madden 2005 is just a bit too much like last year's 
 Madden for comfort -- but it's still a truly excellent game of football all around.  

          Madden NFL 2005 has finally arrived for the PC, and it definitely does the Madden name 
 proud.     

  If you've ever felt that Madden was simply a one-sided piece of pigskin in favor of offensive play, 
 Madden 2005 changes all that. The additions made to the defensive side of the ball are plentiful 
 and all superb. The first and most entertaining addition is the new "hit stick." This feature, 
 like the addition of playmaker control last year, will require PC owners to own a good dual-analog 
 gamepad. Essentially, when on defense, tapping the right control stick in the direction of your 
 opponent will lay a nasty hit on him. What the hit stick translates into is context-sensitive tackling 
 that you can control. If you're just running alongside your opponent and tap it without getting 
 much of a head of steam, then you'll just kind of shove him. Get up a good bout of speed, and you 
 will absolutely waylay the poor ball carrier. Using the hit stick properly will also result in 
 more fumbles and dropped passes for the offense. However, you have to be careful, because missing 
 with the stick leads to a badly missed tackle, which consequently gives your opponent an easy way 
 to dodge past you. While this sounds like it could be a little overcomplicated if not done right, 
 in this case it is done right. As a result, using the stick becomes an immensely fun way to play 
 the defensive side of the ball.  

  Another big-time addition is the new defensive hot route system. Similar to the offensive hot routes, 
 you can now redesign a defensive player's assignment at the touch of a button. Want to push a linebacker 
 into deeper zone coverage or bring a safety in for the blitz? Simply highlight the player and tap 
 the right analog stick in the desired direction. You can also give better presnap assignments to 
 your defensive backs now. Individual presses and pullbacks on receivers can be performed, and you 
 can also lock a corner on to a specific receiver, thus preventing mismatches. Finally, you can 
 now also adjust how a defensive lineman attacks the offensive line without actually having to shift 
 your whole line. What all this amounts to is a far more user-configurable defense that actually 
 makes playing defense much more enjoyable and strategic. The strategy works beautifully, since 
 the defensive artificial intelligence is generally very, very good, and it performs your changes 
 perfectly. If you're adept at defensive play calling and are able to make good reads, you should 
 be able to dominate on defense -- at least against the CPU.  

  On the flip side of things, Madden NFL 2005's offensive game isn't really all that different from 
 Madden NFL 2004, save for a few, small changes. For one, you can now make formation shifts on the 
 line. Formation shifts are essentially audibles that don't change the play. You can move your running 
 back out of the backfield and into a better position for the reception, or you can overload one 
 side of the field with receivers. You'll also notice some new option routes for receivers in this 
 year's game. Option routes are typically highlighted on the play calling screen and feature dotted 
 lines coming off a curl route, for example. These lines indicate the possible directions that a 
 receiver may run, depending on that receiver's assessment of the current coverage scheme. The intelligence 
 of the receivers who are running these routes seems to vary depending on the quality of the player, 
 but, as a whole, the feature seems to work well.  

  However, aside from these few offensive changes, which ultimately don't amount to a whole lot more 
 than nice, little touches, the offensive game feels almost exactly the same as it does in last 
 year's Madden. This isn't a bad thing, by any means, but what it does mean is that anyone who played 
 last year's version of the game shouldn't have a lick of trouble simply blowing up the game offensively 
 on the default difficulty. All-pro and All-Madden difficulties are something of another story, 
 but experienced Madden fans still shouldn't have a ton of trouble with either of them. Some of 
 the old Madden money plays are still just as effective as ever, and there really isn't a whole 
 lot of new "stuff" to get used to this time around. Granted, the AI defense has more tricks up 
 its sleeve now, what with all the new defensive hot routes and shifts and such, so there is that 
 to be taken into consideration.  

          The changes made to the defense, including the new defensive hot routes and the hit stick, 
 are absolutely phenomenal.     

  On the features side of things, Madden NFL 2005 is as robust as it has ever been, though not all 
 the preexisting modes have seen too much in the way of changes. We'll start with the franchise 
 mode, which has seen the most work. The big change to the mode's presentation is the addition of 
 sports radio host Tony Bruno. Billed as EA Sports Radio, the Bruno-hosted show actually plays at 
 the start of each week, and by listening to the show, you'll hear interviews with players and coaches, 
 hear Tony take calls from irate and occasionally idiotic fans, and hear little tidbits about things 
 happening in the NFL. For example, we encountered one scenario where quarterback Mark Brunell was 
 benched early on in the season in favor of Patrick Ramsey. Of course, Brunell was not pleased with 
 the decision, which Tony was quick to report. The dialogue is occasionally a little jittery when 
 Bruno discusses specific stuff related to your league scenarios, but the more generalized bits, 
 like the phone calls, are pretty entertaining.     "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"  
       Madden NFL 2005 Review for PC - Page 2 - GameSpot                                   function 
 do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri 
 =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return 
 true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return 
 false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { var 
 parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem 
 = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src 
 = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CBSSports. com :  Hottie Hall Of Fame ? Fox vs Alba&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;   
  //               GAMES:     GameSpot     GameFAQs     MUSIC:     Last. fm     MP3. com     MOVIES: 
     Metacritic     Movietome     TV:     TV. com                    GameSpot. com                
 Search                               BioShock 2 Exclusive First Look:  We head back to Rapture 
 with...               Spore Galactic Adventures Q&amp; A:  Lead Producer Kip...               Starcraft 
 II: Wings of Liberty Battle Report:  Its Zerg...               Mafia II Impressions:  The 
 sequel to the cult-classic 2002...                    home        PC      Xbox 360      Wii    
   PS3      PS2      PSP      DS        community      forums      videos      cheats      features 
      downloads      sports      tech      news            Reviews     Previews     Cheats     Answers 
     New Releases     Top Games     All PC Games     Tech Center          Theme:   Light    Dark 
            Sign In    Create your account    Help    Forgot Password?                          
              Add Game       Tag       Print       Email       Facebook       Digg              
                 Madden NFL 2005 Review          

 Madden 2005 is just a bit too much like last year's Madden for comfort -- but it's still a truly excellent 
 game of football all around.                     After The Fact:  Reviews Revisited        What's 
 this?               Update:  Servers Offline    Posted: Nov 5, 2008 4:31 pm PT      Toward the 
 end of 2006, the online service for this game was shut down by EA. &nbsp;               

  The Tony Bruno stuff is actually tied into a larger franchise feature called storyline central. 
 Storyline central is essentially your way of keeping track of the media coverage of the NFL and 
 the morale-based grumblings of your players. There's a newspaper feature where you can look at 
 both the national and local papers to see what the big stories are. The local papers actually feature 
 the licenses of real big-city papers. So, for example, if you're the New England Patriots, you'll 
 be reading  The Boston Globe . There is also a new e-mail system that lets you read e-mails from 
 your staff, players, and agents. Players will usually thank you for opportunities or complain when 
 things aren't going their way. Agents will basically do the same.  

          Sports radio host Tony Bruno makes an appearance in this year's franchise mode.     

 
  Your players' morale revolves primarily around playing time versus rating, it seems. If you have 
 a good player who is riding the bench, he'll quickly become despondent. Doing things like shifting 
 player positions around can also adversely affect morale if a player doesn't want to be moved from 
 his current position. Furthermore, losses of big-star players will pretty much send your entire 
 team into a funk if you aren't able to find a suitable replacement. Some players also just seem 
 to have a natural tendency to become problem children, such as the always entertaining Terrell 
 Owens and the periodically whiny Ty Law. Player personalities also play into contract negotiations, 
 because sometimes teams will have certain intangibles that simply appeal more to a certain player, 
 like preferable weather or greater prestige as a franchise. All told, the storyline features seem 
 to fairly accurately represent the sort of media hoopla and personality-driven drama that surrounds 
 the NFL year after year, and though not everything it has to offer is especially useful, it's very 
 cool nonetheless.  

  The draft is another area that has been overhauled. You'll get offers for trades during the draft 
 itself, and you'll be able to scout up to 15 different prospects during the combine, with varying 
 degrees of scouting-report quality depending on how much time you spend with each prospect. The 
 one nice thing about the draft is that your players' morale will actually be affected based on 
 who you draft. So if you have a quarterback who isn't performing wonderfully as a starter, and 
 you draft a top-rated QB, the incumbent's morale will be negatively affected.  

  Aside from these changes and the addition of a basic practice mode, there really isn't much else 
 new in the franchise mode. Owner mode is back, and, aside from a few little tweaks -- like more graphs 
 and adjustable options -- it is largely the same feature it was last year. The trade and free-agent-signing 
 logic throughout the CPU-controlled league is a little better, and player development is about 
 as accurate as it's ever been. On the PC, the franchise mode does feature a completely different 
 interface when compared with the console versions, giving you a much more point-and-click-friendly 
 interface, and much more statistical information on your players. All told, this year's franchise 
 mode isn't a gigantic step forward, but it is excellent enough to provide you with hours of team 
 management bliss.  

  Another mode addition to Madden NFL 2005 is actually sort of an offshoot of the minicamp mode. 
 Essentially, EA Tiburon has added a pair of minigames, one of which is actually a score-based version 
 of the running-back minicamp game. This is a competition for one to two players where you will 
 each have a turn at playing offense and defense. The goal on offense is to score as many rushing 
 touchdowns as possible within a certain amount of time, while on defense, you must prevent touchdowns 
 and try to lay down some big hits that force fumbles for bonus points. The team with the most points 
 at the end wins. The other minigame is called two-minute drill. Here, you have two minutes on offense 
 to score as many points as you can. Once that's done, the other team will conversely have two minutes 
 of its own, and it's up to you to stop them on defense. You earn points offensively through big 
 completions, runs, and scores, while on defense, you earn points by dishing out some big hits and 
 breaking up passes. While these games don't amount to much more than a simple distraction, they're 
 pretty fun.  

          Player morale is something you'll have to monitor in your franchise, because too many troublemakers 
 can lead to a team-wide plunge in motivation.     

  The last mode addition made to Madden NFL 2005 is an equally unnecessary, but still cool, little 
 inclusion. This new feature is the create-a-fan mode, where you can create and design fans who 
 will show up during in-game cutscenes. There is a fairly wide variety of options to choose from, 
 so you can create fans who range from the mildly obsessive to the out-and-out crazy -- like those 
 lunatics who don Viking helmets and big, old Legion of Doom spiked shoulder pads. The one downside 
 to the mode is that, aside from the cool design stuff, you can't really do anything else with your 
 fans. They always pretty much just run through the same few cutscene animations each time, and 
 you can't do anything to make them particularly stand out beyond their visual appearances. Still, 
 if you're one of those people with a special place in your heart for the truly insane football 
 fans who paint their bare chests the colors of a team and stand out in 20-below-zero weather to 
 support it, this is a nice feature.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (14 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: GamerzVoice
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 9, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Madden NFL 2005 another game by EA sports, I don't really like most EA sports games because the 
 gameplay is too hard. The graphics are great though. When you start, you canplay as your favorite 
 NFL team. It's hard to play defense ( what else is new?) . it's best to play with a control instead 
 of a keyboard. I am not going to spend money on a controller just for this game. The best thing 
 about the game is the graphics, but what are graphics without gameplay. Maybe I didn't give this 
 game too much time, but if you're interested in football, you should still buy it, it's cheap. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboydb59
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 21, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Okay, it's your basic Madden game, nothing more, nothing less. A few new features were added that 
 year, but really there was no distinct way to tell it apart from '04 or '06.
  
  But what in the heck is wrong with that?
  
  It's the tried-and-true football sim, pretty static 
 camera, joystick moves you no matter which direction you press it (no turning and forward and so 
 on) pick a play, press the button for the corresponding reciever, a lot of controls nobody uses, 
 etc. I wish someone would try a new style of football sim (like a behind-the-player camera no matter 
 who you were, you stay as that guy even if you're playing single player and someone else gets the 
 ball, camera turns when you do, etc.) but this works. Gameplay: Same basic gameplay but with some 
 rennovations. You can call almost any audible or even map a specific player, you can control more 
 than one player at once at times, there's the *hit stick*, the defenses are a lot better, and so 
 on. They touted being able to stop scrambling quarterbacks with contain plays, which does work, 
 but you're almost never going to be using contain plays because then they go deep on you, so scrambling 
 is still a trustworthy strategy (you can run your quarterback every play of the game if you want 
 to.) . Also, you can create a fan, playbook, stadium, or of course, player or team, and so you can 
 have some limited fun seeing your created stuff all over the place. What's even better than that 
 is that you can import images for new helmet logos and import your own music for the menus and 
 mini-games. The gameplay is good.
  
  Graphics: Great if your computer can run them (most computers should be able to now, except for 
 one of my computers that always overheats, which slows down teh framerate, which makes you lower 
 your settings, etc.)
  
  Sound: Good. The sound effects are realistic, the commentary is horrible but you can turn it off. 
 Half the music is great, the other half... uh...
  
  Value: Good. Multiplayer costs extra but unlike most PC games you can play multiple players from 
 one PC, which rocks.
  
  Tilt: I love football. Enough said.
  
  One last note: Use the Falcons' playbook no matter who you are. They have two of the most consistent 
 pass plays, and some great running plays, and all the trick plays if you're into that kind of thing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilresident666
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Madden 2005 is easily the best football game ever made, with that said its easy to see why i still 
 play it today and i don't play newer football games (such as Madden 06) . Every single thing about 
 madden 2005 is perfect or is nearly perfect. The graphics are amazing and are still very comparable 
 to Madden 06. The game has a great soundtrack, and everything sounds good except John Madden himself 
 (will someone just shut him up please)
  This game is a freakin blast to play with friends and can consume hours and hours of time with 
 multiplayer alone. Worth a purchase even though there are newer Football games available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ck753
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 23, 2006 12:49 am PT
Review:  I like this game, in fact it's hard to stop playing. But when it is loaded and running, I sometimes 
 feel the need to drive my fist through my computer monitor. I also find myself cussing out loud 
 and having arguments with the digital media, and yet there's nobody in the room but me. I'm not 
 so sure that's a good thing. Also I find myself verbally abusing Al Michaels and John Madden, and 
 I always used to like these guys while watching the big game on TV. So there's that too.
  
  Here's the big gripe: the file management interface and the reload times are unforgivable. In these 
 areas this software title doesn't just suck -- it is, like, beyond suck.
  
  Typical of all the EA sports games I have played, reloading is a huge pain in the neck. I know 
 they, in their infinite wisdom, would say that it's deliberate, but c'mon, don't insult your customers. 
 If we want to play "iron man" style, leave that up to us.
  
  There's really no need to make you quit, then have the game dump all the data that was just loaded 
 into the memory, eject you back out to the main menu, then make you (once again) plug in all the 
 parameters upon each reload. Is there? 'Course there ain't. It's as if we who reload are beneath 
 contempt. But hey, I am in it for the fun. I have a feeling my team is in for a perfect season! 
 I'll be damned if I am gonna slog through an entire game unless my boys are hitting their targets 
 and nailing their routes. Otherwise I might as well go bite on some tinfoil for fun.
  
  My poor hard drive. Whenever I reload (usually after a kick, because I mistimed clicking the #2 
 button during the kick meter's downsweep, and the kicker manages to boot the ball almost completely 
 sideways out of bounds -- that's something you don't see every day in the NFL ) my poor, poor hard 
 drive does the old crunch-and-grind through five or six interminably long cycles. During this time 
 the mouse pointer gets sticky, making it problematic to pick all the game parameters that they 
 make you redefine upon each reload. And good old EA sports even built a nasty little checkpoint 
 in that tries to get you to save (overwriting your most recent file) before letting you back to 
 your previous save game files. This occurs during Franchise mode if you try to reload a particular 
 checkpoint more than once. If you are not paying attention and click "yes" instead of "no" it sticks 
 you with a new save game point. It has the feel of a deliberate landmine that they put there to 
 punish people not playing straight through. It bugs me.
  
  But it's the crunching hard drive that's really got me down. Build a natural, user-friendly save 
 and load function into the interface, EA. Put it in the game. Just do it.
  
  I have to hammer on this a bit more. Every time you load or unload the most simplistic function 
 in this game (whether it is the on-field game, the training camp, the custom playbook maker, or 
 whatever) , the hard drive is required to grind away for half a minute. I believe the game uses 
 virtual memory to the utter exclusion of physical memory. Hey, EA, ever heard of RAM? I mean to 
 say: duh. The programming wizards who are responsible for this particular aspect., ought to be 
 beaten with a rolled-up newspaper in places where it really smarts; and then they should be relegated 
 to a task more their speed -- like counting their thumbs, perhaps. Can you tell that it aggravates 
 me? My poor hard drive.
  
  And what's the deal with the lead-in music to the EA radio program that cues up in Franchise mode 
 upon every reload? I mean, that is like an ice-pick to the temple. The vocal chords on that "vocalist" 
 must be a bloody mess. It's obscene. Or like a bad joke. Or something. I rooted around in the multitude 
 of menus until I found the volume control for EA Radio and turned it off completely. That took 
 care of that.
  
  In real life, Madden and Michaels are great commentators and play callers. In this game, though, 
 some of the comments come across as quite asinine. Such as Madden telling you that an incomplete 
 pass is better for a quarterback than an interception. Or that a team which converts turnovers 
 into points has an advantage. Ya don't say! And sometimes the program cues up the wrong commentary 
 for a given situation; for example, I heard Michaels credit a touchdown after my kicker put three 
 points on the board. But the two announcers add enough atmosphere and color to the game that I 
 left their commentary on. It ain't great, but it's not horrible either.
  
  Also, I must mention the half-hearted custom playbook feature. You just are not given all the tools 
 to make your own plays. You cannot make plays of the same caliber as the existing plays that come 
 with the game. That is just plain inexcusable. Your best bet is to make your own playbook using 
 all the various existing plays in all the various existing playbooks; sift through them to make 
 a playbook that suits your style, in other words. But don't even bother making your own plays from 
 scratch. Another thing: custom playbooks are not accessible from the user profile creator, meaning 
 that you are obligated to manually enter your preferred audibles at the start of each game, whenever 
 you use a custom playbook. This sort of crud sticks in my craw, and it's one of the key areas where 
 this game falls short of the mark.
  
  The gameplay itself is fun and addictive -- for the most part. When I am not restraining myself 
 from bashing in my monitor or shouting expletives at Michaels or Madden, that is.
  
  I have the difficulty set to all-pro, and it seems more realistic at this harder setting; this 
 way my team doesn't come away with 400 yards rushing and 98 points on the board. But gameplay can 
 sometimes be awfully tricky at this advanced level, and there are pockets of frustration where 
 you can do no right and the AI team can do no wrong, like when your receivers drop perfect pass 
 after perfect pass, and on the flip side, the AI wide outs vacuum up passes even while being mauled 
 in close double coverage.
  
  And I experienced many instances where a pass was doomed to be intercepted no matter how well timed 
 and well thrown. The safety or the linebacker zoomed in on the play like they were defying gravity 
 and the ball stuck to them like they were flypaper. Sometimes my own quarterback even betrayed 
 me and decided to throw at the defender instead of the receiver. The dumb so-and-so.
  
  All part of the fun, I guess. But EA Sports doesn't like to make reloading too easy. Riiiight.
 
  
  But when you are in the groove, this game really cooks, and the hours tend to fly by. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcamn7
Rating: 3.4
Date: Jan 6, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Initially I enjoyed this game very much, the franchise in particular, but now that I have built 
 an AMD system and attempted to transfer my franchise to it the game just freezes. I can't even 
 create a new franchise without it freezing. I have sent multiple emails to EA Sports with no feedback. 
 I have bought every Madden since they started coming out in the late eighty's but given their concept 
 of product support I don't believe I'll waste my money on any more versions. From the reviews I 
 am glad I stopped buying at 05, as I hear 06 is a waste of money too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTOCTOCTO
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 2, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Madden's graphics remain a bit above average, but perhaps because it's catering to the consoles, 
 it's just not that impressive anymore, and I think the days when I used to consider Madden to have 
 about the best graphics of any game around are long gone. The on-the-field animations are solid 
 enough, although occasionally there can be clipping, and tackling lacks any real ferocity - to 
 quote a friend who's played the game, "sometimes they just seem to fall on each other". More sideline 
 and injury animations would be nice; there are only a few of them and they get repetitive very 
 quickly. Although well animated, the cheerleaders' appearance is pretty weak - all of them have 
 the same face, there are only about four different hairstyles, and they look like they're desperately 
 in need of a more supportive bra (and I don't mean that in a good way) . On the plus side, the celebration 
 for winning the Super Bowl is pretty enjoyable, although what's with not having any actual liquid 
 in the Gatorade bucket that gets dumped on the head coach? 
  
  While there isn't a tremendous amount to hear, the quality of Madden's sound effects is pretty 
 good. The crowd noise seems a bit fuller. They can get pretty pumped up during a big game, which 
 definitely add a bit of excitement. A very notable exception to the generally solid sound work 
 is the referees' dialogue. They're nearly inaudible on the field, such as when explaining the results 
 of an instant replay review. If I recall correctly, the same problem existed in last year's version, 
 and it really makes you wonder how something like this could slip through testing two years in 
 a row. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: D-MonDRV
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 30, 2005 3:57 am PT
Review:  The Madden NFL Football franchise has been a fixture in video games for 15 years, but over the 
 years people continually ask if the series will ever hit a wall. There is only so much innovation 
 and new features you can add to a football game before there just simply isn't anything you can 
 add, but only improve upon. You could say that about Madden NFL 2005 to some extent. 
  
  Last year's game introduced the world to Playmaker controls, which add another level of pre and 
 post-snap audibles. Playmaker is again implemented in this year's iteration, but the EA addressed 
 the one issue with the feature last year; defense. Only few defensive pre-snap changes were available 
 in Madden '04, but this year, with perennial Pro Bowl linebacker Ray Lewis gracing the cover, EA 
 has adopted the theory implemented over the last few years by Super Bowl teams like the Baltimore 
 Ravens, Tampa Bay Buccaneers, and New England Patriots into the game plan thats been true for 
 so many years; defense wins championships. With stiff competition this year from the Sega/ESPN 
 camp, Madden needs all the defense it can muster.
  
  The gameplay modes in Madden 2005 are pretty much the standard features from the last few years. 
 Exhibition, Franchise, Season, Tournament, Online, and Mini Games make up the gist of the modes, 
 and all are executed well. The Mini Games are pretty much all of the training camp games from the 
 franchise mode such as Running Backwhich is really funcamp and theres a whole bunch of other 
 drills to use as well. Still, its all pretty basic, and you can only experience them through the 
 off-season in franchise mode.
  
  As stated before, the primary focus on this years game is its defense. The most notable additive 
 to the defensive gameplay is what you can do before the snap. Aside from the many audible combinations 
 you can call, you can also use the new defensive hot route system with the right analog stick to 
 assign backs at double coverage, assign certain linebackers to blitz, and all sorts of things of 
 that nature. Tired of those crazy runs by Michael Vick? It looks to be that EA Sports revolutionized 
 the defensive gameplay because of situations like that, so now you can assign players to mess with 
 guys like Vick and McNabb so you dont have to worry about the Vick-Factor.
  
  As nice an element as the new defensive hot routes are, perhaps the coolest new feature in the 
 gameplay of Madden 2005 is its new hit-stick controls. After the snap, you can use the right 
 analog stick to perform huge tackles at the ball carrier. The tackles look really excruciating, 
 but the NFL has made it so that it wont increase any chances of a player getting injured. Though 
 it may sound disappointing, EA Sports made it so that the ball carriers chances of coughing the 
 ball up increases if you perform a hit-stick tackle. As great a feature as it is, there are still 
 consequences when using the hit-stick. If you time it wrong, not only will your player miss, but 
 you will pretty much give up a huge chunk of yards to the defense, and itll be a lot harder for 
 your defense to catch the ball carrier.
  
  The offensive gameplay in Madden hasnt received much change, if any, at all. The playmaker audible 
 controls are still there, and theyre a bit more adjustable as well. Want to empty the backfield 
 and give your running back an easier route for a reception? Just tilt the right analog stick, and 
 your running back will move to wherever direction you choose. Also, the AI in your opponents has 
 improved drastically in both offense and defense. For example, if youre facing the Indianapolis 
 Colts at the RCA Dome, Peyton Manning will call all sorts of audibles or fake snaps to confuse 
 your defense just like he does every given Sunday. Other than all that, Madden 2005 is pretty much 
 a grab bag with an extra piece of gumnothing totally out of the wave has been added.
  
  Another area EA Sports improved much upon is its infamous Franchise mode. Its still a 30+ yearlong 
 adventure and does include all of last years Owner Mode elements, but the changes are just great.
 
  
  EA Sports also gave players their egos in the game. So if you have a hotshot player who talks a 
 lot like Terrell Owens, hell do all sorts of rampaging things like sticking it to the media, 
 complain about all the balls not thrown to him, etc. Desperate times call for desperate measures, 
 and if its for the best of the team  trade him, release him, and do whatever you please with 
 him. What you do will be rated and stated in Storyline Central.
  
  Storyline Central is the franchise modes main new viewpoint. Its basically a franchise feature 
 that includes player/coach interviews every week courtesy of sports radio guru, Tony Bruno. Tony 
 Bruno has given 30 hours of different stories thatll be based on your actions at the EA Sports 
 studio, and theyre great but they sound a little generic and unclear. For example, we experienced 
 a problem with Kurt Warner at quarterback for the New York Giants for fumbling too much, so we 
 gave the starting position to Eli Manningand for whatever reason, Warner decided to protest. In 
 light of that, Bruno interviewed Tom Coughlin regarding the situation. Brunos analysis is a love-or-hate 
 type of thing, but its a nice addition if youre a dedicated NFL fan. 
  
  Storyline Central also has a newspaper that announces the moves you made in the season and off-season, 
 and the articles or headlines found in them are pretty much ingenious. EA Sports has also put in 
 the effort by getting each of the licensed newspapers to sign in to their deal. For example, if 
 youre using the San Francisco 49ers in Franchise mode then Storyline Central will make use of 
 the San Francisco Chronicle.
  
  The Off-Season in Madden NFL 2005 is pretty much the same bag as last years edition, but again, 
 youre graded for what moves you pull of by Storyline Central. At training camp, you can play all 
 sorts of mini-games thatll somewhat raise the stats of your players progression depending on 
 how well you do. The mini-games are fun, and Running Back Attack is really addictive, but its 
 a bit of a letdown since you can only play these games during the off-season.
  
  Something that should make Xbox fans happy is that Madden NFL 2005 marks the debut of Madden on 
 Xbox Live. NCAA Football 2005 fans, fear not, the problems that consisted on early builds of that 
 game havent carried over to Madden. Also, newly announced for the game on Xbox Live are online 
 leagues. They basically work as just regular competition or as an online season mode, which is 
 a really a nice touch. The game plays great on Xbox Live thanks to its limited laga feature that 
 Sonys online game really suffers at if both connections are of different ISPs. While the online 
 features of Madden dont outclass ESPN NFL 2005 by any means, its still theyre first year with 
 the service so itll be better as new versions come out.
  
  The PS2 version of the game is back onlinepretty much leaving the GameCube version in the dustand 
 the competition is as fierce as ever with the EA Sports nation. There you can challenge anyone 
 you please for some gridiron action, and the game will also update the rosters for you (just in 
 case you want to make sure Ricky Williams is deleted since he retired so early) , and youll be 
 able to save them to your memory card.
  
  PS2 owners can get a bit more out of the game with an extra $10. For $60, you can pick up the PS2-exclusive 
 Madden NFL 2005 Collectors Edition. This pack features three retro Madden games, a trivia challenge, 
 and some bonus video features. The games are pretty much the same as they were back then, and they 
 have updated rosterswhich can or might not be a letdown since we wont know of those classic greats 
 there were back in the days of the dynasties. The trivia challenge is okay, but its hard if youre 
 just coming in to the knowledge of football. The video features, on the other hand are pretty much 
 just showings of EA Sports patting themselves on the back for what theyve done with the Madden 
 series, but theres a really good, hilarious feature they have on the infamous Madden curse that 
 started in 2001you know, the 2001 box featured Eddie George who had a non-stellar season and lost 
 in the first round, the 2002 box featured Daunte Culpepper whos stats plummeted and led the Vikings 
 nowhere, the 2003 box had Marshall Faulk who missed six games while leading the Rams absolutely 
 nowhere, and the 2004 box had Michael VickEA actually though he would be a safe pickwho broke 
 his leg early in the Pre-Season and missed 11 regular season games making the Falcons miss the 
 playoffs, the journey continues. This collectors edition of Madden NFL 2005 would benefit most 
 of the diehard fans, but its still a nice purchase if you have the necessary amount of clams to 
 dish out.
  
  As usual, the GameCube version will look and sound slightly better than the PlayStation 2 version, 
 and the Xbox version will look and sound slightly better than the PlayStation 2 version. Also, 
 the GameCube versionfor whatever reasonhas less extra cutscenes in the game than its counterparts, 
 but it really doesnt matter. The controls of each game roughly are similar, so its basically 
 on your preference on which game you choose.
  
  Madden NFL 2005 looks great thanks to Tiburons commitment in improving the games visuals. When 
 playing, youll notice a lot of different uses of lighting and the changes to the look of the sky 
 as the progresses in time. Fatigue will also take more of a factor when grass gets stuck on a facemask, 
 jerseys get dirtier in the rain, and players that take more of a limp when getting hit hard. The 
 hit-stick tackle animations are also great, and youll notice that each players physical builds 
 have been improved and more wrinkles on jerseys as well. The fields visual mechanics are pretty 
 much the standard for football sims, and Madden NFL 2005 doesnt miss a pixel.
  
  On the other hand, the sound is definitely unimpressive. The in-game sound of the tackles and stuff 
 like that is great, but Tony Brunoas good as his segments areclearly doesnt have the best sound 
 quality. The music offered by EA Trax is good, but none of that defines what football is and really 
 has no reason to be in the game. Still, this can be corrected since the Xbox version of the game 
 features custom soundtracks, but EA Sports couldve just used generic music rather than random 
 rock and hip hop. Depending if you like Maddens interesting play-by-play analysis, its pretty 
 much a mixed bag with the commentary. Al Michaels is still great, and the chemistry of the two 
 legendary announcers just get better and better. The on-the-field commentary is better than it 
 was last year as well, so Madden is getting closer and closer to the quality of the NFL.
  
  In the end, Madden NFL 2005 is a little too much like last years game when it comes to quality, 
 and its a numb feeling playing the same game over and over for a consecutive year. Its defensive 
 gameplay mechanics are more than enough to warrant that this is a must-play game if youre into 
 football, and its a lot more user-friendly than ESPN is. The Xbox version is pretty much the best 
 of the three, so if youre not getting the Collectors Edition on the PS2, the Xbox version is the 
 recommended purchase. The GameCube version is still solid, but with the lack of online mode, its 
 pretty much beat down. As for the PC version, it's the only NFL game available -- sorry. In the end, 
 Madden is still Madden, and thats more of a good thing than it is a bad thing. So if you love 
 Madden, go for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeR04U
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 9, 2005 10:14 pm PT
Review:  I have long been a fan of Madden games. Since Madden 96 on the Super nintendo I have enjoyed the 
 greatness of the gameplay. I am also a huge football buff so that probably adds to something as 
 well. Every year Madden comes out with a new title and I find it more and more promising. It is 
 difficult to make the switch on some years considering the pass rush will be different, or the 
 rushing game is tweaked but I am more willing to try the switch after I finally grew used to 2004 
 from 2003. 
  
  Madden 2005 is not a sports game to me. It's an RPG. I create myself as a football player, usually 
 with sub par to par stats, and then start the franchise. The franchise goes on for so long, and 
 with simulated drafts, ownership options and player options, how could this not be an RPG? Your 
 players' stats change over time, you can pretty much completely customize how they look (100+ faces, 
 body shape, hair, tatoos, gear) , and watch them grow over time into Hall of Famers. Not only that, 
 it feels like you're a part of something REAL, since we can't go around legally shoving swords 
 into people and shooting bolts out of our brain. 
  
  The gameplay in 2005 hasn't changed a WHOLE lot from 2004 (the game overall hasn't changed much 
 which is exactly why I didn't pay for it... I paid for 2003, and 2004, but I'm not paying another 
 $40 for 2005 when all I wanted was roster/coach updates) . However; this isn't a bad thing. The 
 defensive additions were huge as you can now use the hitstick to gauge the hits, but it really 
 doesn't matter if you don't have dual analogs. I use a sidewinder and if you hit the A button really 
 hard you'll get the same effect, because I can cause plenty of fumbles when I need to on the sidewinder. 
 The passing game was nerfed quite a bit which was a good thing. In 2004 you could just gently tap 
 your pass button to launch the ball WAY up in the air and 70-80% of the time your receiver would 
 catch it. I like the have complete simulation in my football games, so a 67-10 game is pretty stupid. 
 In 2005 you have to use hot routes, audibles, motion, and a little skill to pass effectively. It 
 took me around 3 days of somewhat constant playing to learn to pass effectively (this coming from 
 a person who has played 2003-2004 A LOT!) . 
  
  The running game is still pretty much the same. However; you now have physics in the game. Meaning 
 you can't run one way and then completely pull a 180 and run in the opposite direction. You have 
 to actually turn yourself around. While this is VERY realistic it makes punt returning a bear. 
 I've played the game a lot as you can tell and have only gotten 1 kickoff return and 0 punt returns. 
 I generally don't punt return for more then 10 yds if I'm lucky. And the computer has never gotten 
 a punt return on me. But maybe I'm just bad at returning/good at covering, who knows. The one thing 
 the game did screw up BIG time was special teams. It's a joke how many times on All-Pro/All Madden 
 difficulty you'll kick punts not more then 10-15 yards, miss FG's from 30 yds, or miss XTRA PTS!!! 
 You heard me, you actually can miss a LOAD of extra points which is pretty stupid since in real 
 life NFL, like 3 kickers over the course of the season would miss ONE extra point. Now granted 
 some of this may be because I'm playing it on a laptop and the kick meter is sluggish but xtra 
 pts. should be automatic like they were in 2004. Only with a completely off kick and wind in the 
 directlon you kicked it wrong would you miss. Otherwise it's not that bad.
  
  Graphics are fine in 2005. I don't know why people whine about them constantly. They look fine 
 to me. It's obvious that Peyton Manning gets more facial attention then Koren Robinson but who 
 cares. Overall it's fine.
  
  Sound is where Madden 2005 needs to change. The music is fine, the hits sound great and Al Michaels 
 has some good things to say. But Madden... STFU. God he's such a fat moron that doesn't know anything. 
 In fact, even in NFL (real) Madden is done. He just sits there and mumbles some things every once 
 in a while. The sound is incredibly glitchy in Madden 2005 as well. The announcers will say stuff 
 that makes NO sense with what's actually going on. Like the score will be 21-10 or something after 
 the Rams just scored from a 84 yd. drive on 8 plays and Michaels will say on the Rams next possession, 
 "They haven't gotten a first down all day..." HELLO!?!? Or Madden will mumble something really 
 stupid. I say just ditch Madden. Plus, this has ALWAYS pondered me. Let's say you play as the Vikings, 
 Cardinals, whatever. Madden doesn't announce EVERY game for those teams. He would announce like 
 one on Monday Night Football. So why the hell is he always at the games!?!?! Sound is terrible 
 in this game, it needs an improvement. Ditch Madden and get 5 random people to voice act announcers. 
 Switch them between games and you've got a 10 from me. 
  
  Online I have no clue. After my Madden 2003 online TERROR (23-0-0, 49.6 ppg, with 64% pass TD's, 
 36% run TD's) my online days were over. some of you might remember me as ZeR04U1 if you played 
 2003 online. If you played me I kicked your butt =D. lol
  
  Finally, once again, this is an RPG, and the best I can find to date. If you love football, and 
 love to build characters, manage them, and watch their stats increase, this game is for you. Who 
 needs WoW? This is one of the VERY few games that I don't have to show off my character or stats 
 online to have fun with. It's a game that I just care about what I have on my single player profile. 
 
  
  Definately buy it, or get it whatever means necessary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dobbs3x
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 19, 2004 1:30 am PT
Review:  O. K. this is a review on the PC version on Madden 2005. This will be a simple yet imformative review 
 of the game. 
  
  First the game plays just like the Playstation version especially if using a game pad. The graphics 
 can be better then the Playstaion version if you set the settings high. The sound is still the 
 same nothing to much but still gets you in the game. Madden cards are not implemented into the 
 PC version, mayby a later patch will add them. I coudn't find out how to take the salary cap off 
 but you can turn "trade deadline"off. You are able to create your own team, fan, player, and stadiums 
 which is very complimetary to the already outstanding gameplay. Updates to rosters are as easy 
 as clicking the "update" button on the auto load screen. Francise mode is better then the Playstation 
 version because you can simulate the season or draft rounds quickly unlike on the Playstation where 
 it can take some time. All in all this game is very stable and gameplay is that of expecations 
 of a madden game. Oh yeah the "Hit Stick" is awesome. Overall this game is a 8 out of 10 for the 
 PC version because it lacks some things the Playstaion version has such as being able to diable 
 the salary cap and collect Madden Cards 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AudbuAL
Rating: 3.8
Date: Oct 11, 2004 1:25 pm PT
Review:  The only thing worse about a development team removing a beloved feature is them doing it and then 
 fibbing about the reason. The EA website says the custom team removal from franchise mode was because 
 the custom teams usually went over the salary cap. Horse-hockey! Any team can be edited and go 
 over the salary cap. Furthermore since franchise mode is single-player only who cares? The real 
 reason it was removed was so they could add all of the other newspaper, create-a-fan and radio 
 crap without having to deal with the custom teams. The defensive changes are welcome as are the 
 graphical improvements but the other garbage they added is not worth what we've lost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smorbrod
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 30, 2004 5:34 pm PT
Review:  The game looks and plays a little better than 2004 in my opinion, things like create-a-fan and 
 the radio features are nice but nothing spectacular. What is missing is the ability to take my 
 custom made team through multiple seasons. In 2005 there is no longer a season mode, only franchise 
 and you cannot import your custom team into a frachise mode. In 2004 I could replace an NFL team 
 in season mode and run multiple seasons of my custom built team, I can see no way to do that now.
 
  
  Basically my favorite feature is gone so I am very unhappy. I give the game a good score because 
 it is still a great simulation of football, defense is much more fun to play and the franchise 
 mode is quite nice but they've dumbed it down even more for us PC users. It is getting to be more 
 and more of a console port that does not leverage the power of the PC.
  
  I will change this review if anyone can ever let me know how to play my custom team through mutliple 
 seasons with training camps etc but I just do not see how. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terminus
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 29, 2004 4:30 pm PT
Review:  This is last years version with a few more whistles......... the one thing I loved in this years 
 version that was lacking on the pc in last years version..... is the fact that I can be all the 
 teams ..... or 3,6,2,1,7, whatever amount of teams I wish to have in dynasty mode ....... I can have..... this 
 should always be the case....... (please do it with MVP next year for the pc) .
  
  As far as control goes.... it's still better not to take over the controls in this game if you want 
 to be real competitive.
  
  With that said..... since this is the only semi playable football for the pc..... it's great.
  
 
  Now ....... instead of releasing some of the crap EA releases..... (rugby, and others) ... give us 
 NCAA FOOTBALL DAMN IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BucketSmith
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 16, 2004 3:47 pm PT
Review:  The graphics, as usual are fantastic, and there are some environment enhancements over 2004 (if 
 a late game, as the game goes on, the sun goes down, etc.) . The ambient sound has been improved, 
 and the crowd noise is much better - don't go for it on 4th and short in the red zone, and get 
 ready for the boos. Make a big hit, and the crowd goes wild. The gameplay seems extremely solid, 
 though the running game is a bit tough. There are the new "D" features for the professional control 
 jockeys out there, so it is a solid game - just not enough different from 2004 to get me really 
 excited. I love football, and this game is a good representation - I will probably play it until 
 my eyes turn red. I just wish they would give us more "new" stuff and fix some "old" stuff if they 
 are going to charge us $40 a year to get the upgrade. Unless there is a major retooling in '06, 
 I've bought my last copy of Madden. This is nothing more than Madden 2004 with a few extra bells 
 and whistles.
  
  The basic problems I have wanted to see changed through the many incarnations of this same game 
 engine are still there:
  
  1. No ability to change the shoe color to black. When was the last time you watched NFL films and 
 saw an old reel of the 66 Cowboys wearing white shoes? This couldn't have been too hard to implement 
 - just give us the ability in the edit uniforms module to have some shoe color options.
  
  2. Historic teams are completely off on players and uniform numbers. How hard is it to do some 
 research?
  
  3. No historic stadiums to replay those gritty great games and Super Bowls in.
  
  4. When playing 
 an exhibition, say between the 78 Cowboys and 78 Steelers, it would be nice to have a "Super Bowl" 
 option and get some accurate field graphics instead of just those of the home team.
  
  5. Many other small things, like these that people have been wanting for years have been ignored, 
 but hey, you get the idea.
  
  If you were hoping that Madden 2005 would be a major improvement on the "niceties" of the game, 
 save your money. If you thought 2004 was good enough and aren't a gamepad master, hold onto your 
 bucks and play Madden 2004 some more. If you are new to the series, or want to hone your joystick 
 skills, by all means Madden 2005 is a solid football game and a pleasure to play around with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xelalex24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2004 3:40 pm PT
Review:  I played this game non stop since it came out. Barely got any sleep. Took a day off of work. Locked 
 the wife and kids in the basement. (Ok, I'm just kidding about my last remark.)
  
  This game is excellent. It is hard, but you can tweak it with the sliders, and you will see that 
 eventually you will get use to it. So, what is good about this game?
  
  The graphics for the PC version are just awesome. VEry crisp and clean. You do need a powerful 
 computer to see what it can offer, but it still looks better than the XBOX version with average 
 settings. 
  
  Gameplay is almost, very close, to perfect. In offense, you really need to know your plays and 
 you can't expect your QB to throw while going back 20 yards. THis has made the game so much more 
 realistic. Running is hard, but I seem to make 80 to 100 yards per game with my HB, so it is matter 
 of just being determine and learning the game. 
  
  Defense! Defense! Defense! The defense is excellent. I'm not getting burned by long passes from 
 the opposing team all the time. Getting to the QB is much more easier than the past few years, 
 so it is making the game more exciting. The play calling at the line is just so intuitive and a 
 great addition to the game. Now, the computer's defense is just as good, so you really need to 
 do some good play calling on Offense.
  
  Dynasty is excellent. The Bruno show is well done, and the user interface is design to perfection. 
 I can find the information quick and easy.
  
  I don't have many cons at the moment. I would like to see better chearleaders, and a better interface 
 for building a new stadium... but who really cares about those two things. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
