-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Madden NFL 08
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/madden08/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Enjoyable gameplay.
 New defensive control upgrades are worthwhile additions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Skill drills are kind of lame, and fantasy challenge is missing from this version.
 A lot like last year's game across the board.
 Franchise mode is actually missing some features from last year's game.
 Presentation is stale.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 21, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.6, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 461 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Tiburon
Genre: Football Sim
Date:     Aug 14, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Beyond a roster update and a couple of small additions, there's little to Madden NFL 08 on the PC 
 to make it worthwhile to anyone who bought last year's game. 

  It's probably not a surprise to anyone that Madden on the PlayStation 2, Xbox, and GameCube this 
 year would essentially be on autopilot. The life span for these consoles are rapidly coming to 
 a close, and the likelihood is that most players have probably pushed forward to the 360, Wii, 
 and PlayStation 3 by now. What  is  surprising, however, is just how much on autopilot the PC installments 
 of EA's megapopular football franchise continue to be. Despite the fact that the Xbox 360 and PS3 
 versions of Madden have taken a long leap beyond what the older consoles could deliver, EA has 
 churned out yet another port of the PS2/Xbox/GC version of Madden for the PC in Madden NFL 08. 
 What this means is that you're going to get the same basic upgrades of those versions (though not 
 all of them) , the same EA Sports Online system (which hasn't been updated in a long, long time) , 
 and the same tired presentation. To be sure, the game plays just fine, and all told, it's a solid 
 game of football. But considering just how much this version has gotten the shaft in comparison 
 to quite literally every other version of the game, it's hard to recommend it.  

           If you bought Madden 07, or Madden 06 for that matter, this might all look a bit familiar. 

  The big addition in every iteration of this year's Madden is the new "weapons" system. This system 
 is basically designed to provide differentiation between specific types of star players. Due to 
 specific icons for each type of player, you can now see the difference between a possession receiver 
 and a big-play receiver, an accurate quarterback and a strong-armed quarterback, a shutdown cornerback 
 and a press-coverage cornerback... you get the idea. On the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3, this system 
 is fantastic because you can really see the differences in play between the various types of weapons, 
 and the game itself becomes about finding mismatches you can exploit on both sides of the ball. 
 Not so much for the PC. There are certainly some base-level distinctions to be made, but for the 
 most part, players play exactly the way they always have in a game of Madden. There aren't those 
 subtle differences in play styles. Sure, you know the difference between a power running back and 
 a speedy running back, but those have always been obvious differences. Beyond being able to spot 
 who on the field is good and who is not so good, and periodically being able to fix a mismatch 
 you might not have otherwise noticed, it doesn't feel like there's much value to the system on 
 the PC version.  

  Some of the new control upgrades from the PS3 and 360 versions of Madden have made it into the 
 PC version as well. Most of these updates are on the defensive side of the ball. You can now focus 
 coverage on a specific receiver with a quick button press while zoomed out, though doing so will 
 draw defensive resources away from other receivers. When laying in big hits via the right analog 
 stick, you can hit a player high by pressing up, or low by pressing down. Doing this has different 
 effects on different types of players. Hitting high might cause a less cautious ball carrier to 
 cough up the rock, while going low on a power back is probably the best way to take him down as 
 he pushes past the line. There's also a button that will make your controlled defender attempt 
 to strip the ball from a carrier, provided you time the button press correctly. Fortunately, unlike 
 on the 360 and PS3, the number of fumbles you'll see throughout a game aren't over the top. Lastly, 
 EA finally added the new kick meter to the PC game, and if you've got a good dual analog controller, 
 it works quite nicely.  

  Beyond these updates, Madden 08 plays a lot like Madden 07 did. Hardly an awful thing by any stretch, 
 but those hoping for something significant or game-changing in these versions of the game won't 
 get it. Likewise, any holdover bugs or issues from previous iterations are pretty much still here, 
 like vibrating blockers, defenders and receivers getting wrapped up in a tango entirely free of 
 pass-interference calls, and all the usual stuff like that.  

  Ultimately, the biggest change comes in the form of a really goofy mode addition. Titled skill 
 drills, this mode is essentially a series of training minigames against gigantic football dummies. 
 Think minicamp, but with robots. There are four categories to these drills: passing, rushing, defense, 
 and presnap. Rushing has you running from end to end while pulling off specific jukes, spins, and 
 cuts against defenders. Passing has you trying to complete as many passes as you can against the 
 robot dummies in coverage. Defense is like the rushing attack, but with specific types of tackles 
 and defensive hits. Finally, presnap controls having you cycling through various hot routes, audibles, 
 and formation shifts under a time limit. The theory behind this mode seems to be to teach players 
 how to use all the various control mechanics, and for some, it works. It definitely teaches you 
 a thing or two about how to time hits and running-back moves, though for the presnap controls, 
 it's basically worthless. There's zero insight into why you would make any of the changes you're 
 making; you're just making them over and over again mindlessly. There's also something exceedingly 
 silly about the whole giant dummy thing. Why can't you just do these against regular opposing players? 
 Why does it have to be a big robot?  

  On the PS2, Xbox, and GameCube, an additional new mode called fantasy challenge had you building 
 out your own fantasy team and competing in a series of tiered leagues against increasingly tough 
 competition. Sadly, that mode isn't present here in any form, so you're basically missing out on 
 the best of the new mode additions if you pick up the PC version.  

  Looking elsewhere to the mainstay Madden modes, franchise, online, and superstar modes are tweaked 
 at best, and unaltered at worst. Franchise mode has seem some menu system adjustments, but actually 
 removes some features, like the Tony Bruno radio show. Then again, considering that's something 
 that costs money to license, and this year's game seems to be pretty much frills-free, that would 
 make some measure of sense. Superstar mode ditches the randomization of your parents feature when 
 creating your own player, and lets you select from any of the available rookies from this year's 
 draft class, and also adds in all the role-playing stuff from the 360 and PS3 versions, minus the 
 improvements to the camera system. Online modes are all but unchanged. You can play head-to-head 
 against other players using the lobby matchup system, and can take part in the same basic tournaments, 
 clubs, and leagues as always. In this regard, the PC version has always been ahead of consoles 
 in that it actually includes these sorts of features. But it's had them for years, and they've 
 gone nearly unaltered for years. At least the game performs reasonably well. We had some issues 
 with connection drops before games began, but once we got into a few games, the matches were mostly 
 lag-free.  

           Giant robot football dummies? Really? That's what we get this year? Swell.      

  
 The sameness from last year's game extends to the presentation as well. The graphics engine has 
 seen little adjustment, save for some new gang-tackling animations that are actually pretty good. 
 Players still have that squat, mutated look that they've had for a good long while now, and nobody 
 looks anything like their real-life counterparts. The frame rate does at least manage to hold steady 
 for the most part, though the play calling menus and other, similar areas of the game tend to hitch 
 up for a moment or two when loading. Predictably, the PC version is a lot sharper than its console 
 counterparts, but that doesn't excuse the fact that EA is continuing to port an old console game 
 when it has a newer, slicker version it could just as easily port over. Commentary consists of 
 the same rehashed dialogue from Al Michaels and John Madden yet again, so if you were hoping for 
 something new, or even for them to mention a few new players' last names, forget about it.  

  With the PC version continuing to rank right around the bottom of the barrel as far as new features 
 and upgrades go, you've got to start wondering if EA even cares about its PC sports games. Yes, 
 it plays fine, but it doesn't play much better than Madden 07 did, and that didn't play much better 
 than Madden 06 did. You can buy the PC version of Madden 08 and find yourself with a reasonably 
 good football game, but given how little that reasonably good football game has evolved from previous 
 reasonably good football games on the PC -- and how much better the rest of the Madden crop is this 
 year -- you're better off looking to one of the console versions.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (42 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Taloskai
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  When EA released Madden 08 for the computer, I expected it to be just like the consoles, I can't 
 believe how wrong I was.
  
  Instead of giving us a game with Next Gen graphics and overall better gameplay, they rehash Madden 
 04 for the fourth time and put on new rosters and cover art.
  
  EA sports thinks that the computer is about as good as a PlayStation 2. Computers in this day and 
 age run circles around the newer consoles. The computer is the Road Runner and the consoles are 
 the coyotes. Consoles can never catch up with the computer in terms of technology so they have 
 no reason to give computer gamers a old, lousy NFL game.
  
  The worst part of it all is that they'll never improve it, they'll never patch it, nothing. They 
 don't even want to release it for the computer anymore.
  
  So when EA complains about PC sales not being high enough, it's their fault, they put some garbage 
 games out into the market now.
  
  And we wonder why PC gaming is dying........ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beesu
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 27, 2008 12:13 am PT
Review:  Although of all the bad reviews for Madden NFL 08 I find it one of the best Football games I have 
 played to date. In the following review i will point out what i like and don't like.
  
  Like:
  Graphics are pretty good - Love the new hit stick - Superstar mode is pretty fun - like 
 the highlight stick
  
  Dislikes:
  Bad D-Fence - Commentary sucks - Offense is to easy
  
  If you are a fan of the NFL series from EA then i say that you should buy this game. If you 
 own a console like Wii, Xbox 360, or PS3 buy it for them but if all else fails buy it for PC
  
  The game play is pretty fun and i find myself coming back to the game because it is fun for 
 a while. The learning curb is pretty easy and to really master the game could take a very long 
 time. I do think that EA needs to go back and make a better looking game with better intro's and 
 commentary.
  
  The superstar mode is fun and with you now being able to put your atributes in the stuff you want 
 them in the game becomes more about your playing style. If your a long bomb QB then put it in throwing 
 power. But if you like those short route passes better crank up your awarness and accracy. This 
 plays a big part in what rating your player gets.
  
  I have gotten some amazing players from being able to do this but also some very rot tin ones.
 
  
  The fantasy mode seems to just be getting by with only a new scouting thing to go through the game 
 didn't really improve.
  
  So like i said get it on a console before you even think about the PC version 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo-Master12
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  Madden 08 is exacatly the same as Madden 07 the only change is a little difference in superstar 
 mode. Also addition of rookies that doesn't honestely make a difference. It has better graphics 
 but besides Superstar mode it's pretty much same old same old. After you beat super star mode it 
 gets very boring. Because there isn't pretty much anything else you can do. It's stilll a good 
 game but it's just not a whole lot different. If you have Nfl 07 don't waste 50 bucks on this game 
 because it'll just be a waste. It's worth more like 10 or 15 dollars. Another problem is that it 
 has lousy franchise and season modes. It is exactly the same Madden just change it when 09 is out. 
 Make it better that is worth like an 8.5. Those are the problems but it is still fun to play for 
 a week or two then your pretty much sick of it and begging for 09 to come out. Not the besat Madden 
 i've seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Desalbert-
Rating: 9
Date: May 20, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  
  Excerpt: Call me crazy, but Madden 08 on the PC delivers the truest form of NFL franchise simulation 
 of any madden this year, and for the biggest of football fans, that makes it an incredible and 
 classic experience. 
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  
 I've been an avid madden gamer for years and years, dating back to the PS1 era. I've seen high 
 points and low points in the series, but no point has honestly been lower than what the 'next-gen' 
 platforms of the 360 and Ps3 have offered. A terribly unrealistic franchise mode that lacks depth, 
 strange looking moments and tackles, odd gameplay and a terrible announcer highlight these failures. 
 
  
  Yet, because of such a terrible game of simulation football being released on the next-gen systems, 
 I have come to find that the PC version of Madden 08, (which sticks to the tried and true 'old-school' 
 madden engine) delivers the most satisfying madden experience, without doubt.
  
  Does it have worse graphics? Yes, that much is obvious, but the way the players run, the plays 
 that are made, as well as the quick pace and fluidity of the game severely trumps the overly mechanical 
 high-budget next gen titles.
  
  More than having the extremely solid gameplay common to the classic madden's found on the Xbox 
 and Ps2 back in the mid-2000's (read: Madden 2006 especially) the game is seriously chalk-full 
 of great franchise features that were once greatfully common, and now, sadly scarce.
  
  Complete with realistic player progression, player weapons AND player roles (IE, injury prone, 
 or, Fan Favorite) , a full-blown owner-mode, (including coach firings, stadium upgrades, relocation, 
 advertising, etc.) player morale, true-to-life pro-bowl uniforms (with team-specific helmets; unlike 
 the other versions) realistic on-the-field injuries, position battles during pre-season, as well 
 as restricted free-agents, a solid draft system as well as an active CPU when it comes to signing 
 and releasing players Madden 08 on the PC, IS simply the best NFL experience this year. In fact, 
 to my mind, and in my thorough experience, the supposedly superior games of the other systems have 
 none of the great and vital features that I mentioned, which are common to the PC and other 'last-gen' 
 systems. 
  
  From extremely solid gameplay, that's fast, fluid, realistic and fun, to a franchise mode absolutely 
 littered with the features Madden fans EXPECT out of their games. The only draw backs to the game 
 come with a lack-lustre Online, and Superstar mode.
  
  Regardless though, when faced hollow resume of the better-looking but terrible-playing opponents, 
 Madden 08 on the PC has been a fast friend to me these past many months, and, unless Madden 09 
 on the 360 or Wii comes through on the Franchise front, I'll likely play through 30 whole seasons. 
 It's that good.
  
  Bug free, packed to the brim with franchise features and realism, whilst operating on a amazingly 
 solid gameplay foundation, Madden 08 on the PC is a perfect example as to why hype can't be believed, 
 and one just has to play the game for oneself. I own both the 360 and Wii versions of madden 08, 
 and for lack of depth, and a ridiculous amount of game-destructive bugs respectively; I always 
 come back to the PC version.
  
  If you're anything like the football fan that I am who revels in the thrill of the franchise mode, 
 look no further; You've found your game this year.
  
  9.0/10
  The only Madden for the year 2008 that I recommend and stand behind 
  
  Here's hoping this 
 doesn't fall on deaf ears.
  
  Written: May 14th 2008
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcgamer06
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 6, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Its not a bad football game but its the first i played on a PC. Which was hard till i had to go 
 pay a Xbox 360 controller. the game's graphics are especially weak for the standards of the PC's, 
 with down grads the system's power and really isn't much different from its Consoles cousins. the 
 controlling in good if you use to the console controller's button layout. over all the game play 
 and mechanics of the game as I heard from many people is that much of the game is a recycle of 
 last years game. So its of your better interest to know that your better off to stay with 07 if 
 u want to shell out the cash for this but there is a new feature in the game which lets you use 
 the right stick to control the throws much like the system of how hard to pass a soccer ball in 
 FIFA 08. the same mechanic also is used in the way u strike some1 when your on the defense side 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrYates808
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 26, 2008 3:21 am PT
Review:  Being a PC gamer at heart, Madden on the PC has always been my version of choice. The graphics 
 were better, the animations seemed smoother, and the online community for leagues and editing/game 
 mods is second to none across the Madden platforms. Whether it was the impeccable user created 
 'Struttdaddy' rosters, or the countless amount of fellow enthusiasts wishing to pit their GM skills 
 in roster management only simulated leagues, the PC version always seemed superior to me.
  
  Unfortunately, it doesn't seem many decision makers at EA agree. While the Xbox 360 and PS3 
 have been seeing new engines with top notch graphics and revamped animation systems from EA with 
 the Madden series, the PC version has been tossed aside and given the scraps from the old PS2 engine 
 for years, and this continues with Madden 08 PC. This means the vast majority of features touted 
 prior to release for 08 on the next gen consoles are not in the PC version, which is considerably 
 disappointing if not a little misleading on EA's behalf, as actual PC specific features were not 
 announced until very near the release date and were only hidden away in a developer's blog post 
 at that. This was hardly a surprise as every year EA don't seem to show the PC version much love 
 publicity wise, but Madden 08 PC seemed exceptionally neglected in this regard.
  
  Perhaps this was the case because, thanks to the fact Madden 08 PC is based on the PS2 version 
 of the game, there really wasn't that much the marketing department at EA could have focused on. 
 What you will see that is new in 08 PC is so minimal, at times you may think you accidentally loaded 
 up 07 instead. As far as modes go, three minor changes were made - there are a bunch of new mini-game 
 like drills to enhance your football skills with in the new "Skill Drills" mode, in the Superstar 
 mode you can now take on the role of a real life NFL rookie drafted this past April, and there 
 is now a new addition called "Ring of a Champion", which is not so much a mode but more of a visual 
 aid to track your game achievements through the representation of diamonds on a Superbowl ring. 
 Gameplay wise, only somewhat minor additions were made, such as the ability to "Spotlight" an opposing 
 receiver, the ability to put a defender into a zone that defends the 1st down marker, a change 
 in the way you kick balls, an extension to the popular 'Hit Stick' known as 'Hit Stick 2.0' which 
 allows you to specifically trigger low tackles by pressing down, a bunch of new pre-snap motion 
 plays, and of course the expected addition of a few new animations here and there.
  
  One of the more prominent features added to 08 PC is the new "Player Weapon" system, although this 
 is really not a "back of the box" grade addition in the PC version like it appears to be in the 
 360/PS3 versions. Player Weapons on the PC are basically just an extension to 07's Player Roles, 
 which gave labels to players based on their strengths and weaknesses, such as "Game Manager" for 
 efficient QB's, "Hard Hitter" for strong defenders and "Injury Prone" for players who find their 
 way off the field too often. The Player Weapon system introduces a lot more to the table most of 
 which are very position specific such as "Rocket Arm" and "Power Back", but rather than replace 
 the Player Roles of 07, they basically just mixed both systems together, creating a sometimes awkward 
 mixture of 07 style icons and abilities with the newer Weapons. Combined, you have over 40 different 
 categories, 2 of which a player can specialize in, and while this is quite comprehensive and detailed, 
 perhaps even more so than 08 on the 360 and PS3, you have to wonder if these Roles and Weapons 
 really do anything other than offer a quick and easy way to identify a player's attribute strengths, 
 much like the game's OVR rating does. I'll give the game the benefit of the doubt and say a weapon 
 ready player is slightly better than an identically rated one without a weapon, but it's definitely 
 not evident enough to disprove the possibility they are nothing more than labels.
  
  As far as what's new in 08, that's about it really. You'll notice smaller things like a slightly 
 modified menu GUI and of course new menu and in-game soundtracks, but ultimately, 08 PC plays an 
 awful lot like 07 PC did. Once you get in-game, the visuals will feel the same outside of a few 
 slight enhancements to the lighting (particularly in weather) , the physics will feel the same, 
 and the gameplay will feel the same with perhaps a slight AI enhancement when it comes to CPU passing 
 attacks and their new found tendency to throw smarter underneath balls. After a while, you may 
 see a few new catch and tackle animations including a few nifty looking 2 defender gang tackles, 
 but a few new animations sprinkled here and there are hardly game savers. There is simply nothing 
 clearly evident at all about 08 that differentiates itself from 07. EA have always been criticized 
 for not adding enough year to year with Madden, but 08 PC is amazingly the same even by those standards.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rasaicnai
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 11, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  i bought the original game, after playing for sometime, i wished i could have downloaded it from 
 the net or something.
  this is my first madden so i dont have much background about the series. at first i thought it was 
 ok, but as you play along you'll notice some glitches of this game. the handle of the game was cool 
 (keyboard's a little awkward) the only catch is that the ai is very stupid and you'll get a perfect 
 season easily. the only good team that seems to be really smart is Indianapolis colt's but other 
 team you can beat with almost 30 points margin. even if you increase the ability of the ai the difference 
 is hardly noticeable.
  I cant comment on the online since i'm on dialup so all my games against human is on lan.
  you'll 
 notice the glitches of this game when you go up against human. since your buddy play's smart and 
 daring the two of you probably gonna get 100 plus points combined at the end. scoring in this game 
 is really easy. i think the main reason of this is that the star players are all overrated. Like 
 tomlinson he seems to be overly good on gaining yards after contact that we dubbed him oilman coz 
 he seem to have oil in his body that defenders cant seem to get hold of him. 
  tomlinson i can swallow but long passing yards i cant. when we're playing lan the score could get 
 really high simply because we can get 2 play touchdown even if you started in your own 20 yard. 
 it's incredibly easy to have you 50 yards pass be completed even if there's a man coverage on the 
 receiver. play as greenbay and you'll see what i mean. hot route jennings just vertical start the 
 play then pass. incredibly almost no amount of coverage can defeat this play. i was playing steelers 
 then with ike talyor covering jennings i put double coverage on him and make my coverage prevent 
 (all defense except the linemen fall back to cover possible receiver) . incredibly jennings outrun 
 taylor and the other defender plus the safety. this happens atleast once every position of greenbay. even 
 when i; m on offense i just let hines ward go forward a little bit then pass almost completed every 
 time.
  because of super offense, being on the defense is really annoying specially when plays like the 
 one mentioned happen every time.
  this passing issue on long yards makes the whole thing almost feels like designed not to challenge 
 the user but only to make them feel good which after a while when you realize it , it suddenly 
 becomes dull and boring. the term "rubber band ai" always come to mind.
  it could have been better if there's a better handle on the defense.
  
  on the technical issue, 
 the graphics is good but not so compared to third generation console, but at least the game is stable 
 and the loading time is short. overall the pc version somewhat feels like a rushed job. its like 
 a man in ea sport just yelled at someone to make a pc version, reproduce it then shipped to buyers 
 without really consideration of what the reaction of those people would be. its like those Christmas 
 lights that did not go through quality control, its very good to the eye at first but as time goes 
 it will break loose and you'll realized that it's not really worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rrbruni1
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  EA will not update the Rosters this year because they on concentrated on X-Box and Playstation. I 
 will never buy another. Even if I buy the X-Box I m done with Madden. I cannot belive that EA has 
 abanden the PC. If you going to do that why sell the game if dont plan to update rosters!!!! I Im 
 very disappointed with EA and I m done with them!!!!! So why has EA stopped puting out updates for 
 madden 08 PC versions can someone please give me an answer!!!! The game graphics are pretty good 
 but would be better with an updated rosters. What was the reason for thi fiasco I dont undrstand 
 why you took our money for the game said you would put out updates for Madden 08 or give me back 
 my money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sNaKeyy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  From the beginning i must say that the Madden NFL 08 is the best sport simulator made by EA Sports 
 this year. I agree with Gamespot about the features like last year, but the graphics and atmosphere 
 had been updated major. The best atmosphere i have ever seen in a match, awesome supporters, unique 
 ones for every team, when the away team score, the supporters are yelling and when the home team 
 score they are happy and dancing. It's great to see them doing that.
  Also, they added Skill Drills which teach you something useful about defense and rushing, the rosters 
 and teams have been updated and also the Superstar mode has been updated a little. You can now 
 play with players from Drafts. 
  I must tell you that if you didn't bought last year's Madden NFL, you MUST buy it this year. You 
 won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyorange
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  I love football. In case you haven't read my review of NCAA 08; football is life (along with, of 
 course, my girlfriend, beer, and real life) . I've been with the Madden franchise since I picked 
 up 2000 for my since-sold (a move I regret frequently) Dreamcast, and I've subsequently missed 
 out on 2003 and 2005 - not huge improvement years as I've been informed. 2006's QB vision and 2007's 
 run-blocking mode were not advances I particularly enjoyed either, and my gameplay style has remained 
 unchanged since I piloted the Rams in Madden 2002.
  
  That being said, there isn't much inherently wrong with Madden 08. It's the lack of any major changes 
 -or the stripping of console upgrades- that powers the low score. For starters, 98% of the improvements 
 have been cosmetic, as the Gamespot review-mentioned tackling animations, or the far-slicker menus 
 and navigations. The controls are much tighter this year -noticeably so- although that's not really 
 saying too much considering the keyboard isn't the most versatile sport simulation controller. 
 That being said, I found it easy to play pitch-and-catch west coast style, or power ahead with 
 Peterson for a dozen yards. The new defensive schemes and abilities don't really add much, and 
 when used frequently they allow the AI -which still follows the same playing style it has for years- 
 to bust open huge gains.
  
  Additionally, Madden 08 seems to lack fervor and intensity. NCAA 08, when the difficulty setting 
 is high, pushes you to grind out yards until you finally squeeze in a long-gainer to your slot 
 receiver for a sick touchdown which the computer takes the liberty of replaying multiple times. 
 In Madden, big gains happen all the time. Receivers seem to jog downfield as defensive backs keep 
 pace (or more-frustratingly, stand still in front of your receivers, blocking them from catching 
 a ball and not being called for pass interference - something which will occur many times in any 
 given game) , slyly swatting the ball they shouldn't even have a chance in hell of defending. The 
 computer seems to cheat more times than skillfully defend my offensive onslaught. There really 
 is no challenge excepting bonehead calls on my part; fourth-and-29 from my own goal line, throwing 
 a pick as opposed to taking the sack, or scrambling into the waiting arms of Urlacher instead of 
 lobbing it to the wide-open slot man. Nothing the AI does impedes me from winning.
  
  Which is largely frustrating because the new weapon system is utterly worthless. Take, for example, 
 my fantasy-drafted Cleveland Browns. I target defense first, claiming rights to Ed Reed, Polomalu, 
 Champ Baily, and so on. Eventually, the offensive players I had my eye on come to the top of the 
 pool and I quickly nab them - Drew Stanton, Kevin Kolb, and Troy Smith for quarterback, Adrian 
 Peterson and two ex-Penn State standouts for halfback, Ted Finn Jr, Anthony Gonzales, Robert Meachem, 
 Calvin Johnson, and Sinorice Rice for wideouts, and Scaife and ex-Colt Marcus Pollard for tight 
 ends. (If you haven't noticed, I'm a Big Ten guy - It so happens I actually go to Indiana University.) 
 Even with an 82-overall offense, I put up ludicrous numbers against the computer. It seems even 
 the ratings of individual players means nothing if you're even somewhat competent and football. 
 Every game, regardless of difficulty, ends in a blowout.
  
  Fortunately, there are some saving graces for Madden 08. For starters, the soundtrack is amazing. 
 Every tune is great to hear, and rarely does one particular track become annoying. And of course, 
 the game is football and I love football, so that in and of itself is points in my book. In the 
 end, Madden 08 for PC is a disappointment and a grace sign that EA seems to be abandoning the sporting 
 market on the system that birthed modern gaming. Not that I mind all that much, because I love 
 sports games and I'll follow them wherever they migrate. It's sad that EA even releases half-baked 
 or stripped-down games at all. It goes to show what big companies do to get a quick dollar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 7:10 am PT
Review:  Well not much I can say about this game hasn't already been said by other reviews. When compared 
 to console versions, we really got the short end of the stick and of course it's just an effort 
 to save money. EA is very aware that majority of PC users also have consoles and there are way 
 more console gamers than PC gamers. Therefor EA, in a wise bunsiness sense, puts more money into 
 the development and production of the console games over the PC version since the console version 
 will sell 10 times more than the PC version. The number 1 goal of ANY business in the world is 
 to make the highest profit possible and that's merely what EA is doing. It's not entirely wrong 
 per se, but it does lead to some headache's for those of us who ARE pc gamers who do NOT buy the 
 next gen consoles. As for the game itself, it plays well and really don't have any complaints over 
 the game itself but it's pretty much the exact same as previous versions. Nothing really new can 
 be said about 08. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calibanvov
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Since all that was done for 08 was put icons on the good players and update the rosters, I'll give 
 a real short review.
  
  TRUE STORY: I was playing this game, all excited and into an hour I was stunned for a moment. I 
 thought oh crap did I buy the wrong game? Did I get 07???? . I actually picked up the CD and looked 
 at the cover to make sure. Thats how uninspired this is.
  
  Graphics, fonts, draft, free agency, gameplay, its all the same. Completly the same as 07. I'm 
 so dissapointed.
  
  I've played many hours of all the Madden games, This one I spent the Least amount of time on. 5-10 
 hours at most. what a shame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyranasaurus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  soon pc's will overtake the consoles in everything but i remember even when ps2 came out it took 
 a little while for pc games to become next gen... when ps2 came out ppl were still playing counter 
 strike 1.5 the thing that looked better on pcs was only the wall textures the actual human figures 
 on pc still looked like crap for ages.. until finally half life 2 etc came out..
  
  unfortuately we have to wait for consoles to make their money..
  
  GRAPHICS WILL ALWAYS BE 
 NEW..... GREAT GAMES SHOULD LAST FOREVER!!!!!
  
  pcs very soon will surpass xbox 360 but unfortunately the companys have to WOW everyone with the 
 consoles first... to give ppl a REASON to go out and buy them.. but soon we will have our cake and 
 eat it too.. and yes we may have tio wait till next year.......
  
  lol sorry i didnt spend much time on it because there nt any difference the 2006 version so i still 
 play 2006 version.
  
  In saying that though 2008 runs a hell of alot better than 2006 by far.
  MADDEN 2008 is the smoothest 
 running madden ive played ever on PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 9:07 am PT
Review:  I will first disclaim that I didnt buy this game but my buddy did and I did play for hours so I 
 feel that I can comment. Its real simple.
  
  If you own 2007, DONT waste your money on 2008, because the differences are so minor that its just 
 not worth it. EA should really take a long look at their sports line being lost to 2k and try and 
 do something to win back its customers... this one is gone. Take your money and buy NHL 08, a game 
 that EA has finally done right again after a 10 year hiatus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foufanclub
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Mostly a roster update of the previous version. Ridiculously easy on the All-Pro setting, and simply 
 stupid gameplay on the All-Madden setting. When the player has to play with the AI settings through 
 an entire season to end up with something that could vaguely look like an NFL game, it means a 
 game designer (or more) has been sleeping on the job. Definitely not worth buying, especially if 
 you already have Madden 06 or 07. Most expensive patch ever. That NFL exclusivity deal with EA 
 is an awful thing; the game annoys me so much that now I think i'll go to church on Sundays... 
 :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordo08wii
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2007 7:19 pm PT
Review:  The graphics engine is old, dynasty is the same, etc. But that doesn't matter too much. You may 
 get bored of it more quickly but it was still a not a half bad game to play. It supports wide screen 
 and the graphics isnt that bad at full settings, but if u compare it to bioshock of course it is 
 going to lose. Somy opinion if u didnt like 07 dont buy it. and if u did like it buy it. But i think 
 it is still better than nhl 08 anyways and it is still addictive and fun to play every now and 
 then, just not all the time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BergerFan
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 25, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Surely, a decent gaming rig can handle a 360 version of Madden 08? Gamespot really need to start 
 asking Ortiz (and his minions) the hard questions as to why PC owners keep getting poor PS2 hand-me-downs, 
 when the PC will always be 'Next Gen'.
  This is merely a roster update and a few different background graphics, masquerading as a new game. 
 A very small number of player animations make it into the PC version, and there's next to no mention 
 of the new weapons system from the console version in this game.
  When you consider the genuine power of any decent gaming PC today, it's a crime that EASports, 
 only have love for the 360 and PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 23, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  Not much to say about Madden NFL 2008 that I didn't say last year. The game play on the field is 
 better, and I love the new defense options in the game, but the game plays more of arcade style 
 sports game making it very hard to really enjoy playing defense in this game. The graphics are 
 for the most part well done, but pretty much the same as last year, but they have added a ton of 
 new animations that really make the game look even better. The Sound is about the same as last 
 year, and Madden is about as tired as ever.
  Leave it to EA to destroy another franchise, they have pretty much done it for decades. No further 
 review needed here. Go get the 360 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stif42
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 22, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  ok, it's just a shame... Just bought a brand new and powerful 8800 gtx and I wish I had a brand 
 new madden to play with. Put all settings to max and you are in face of reality : this game got 
 the same look since years... Even this menu is tsuck in 800x600.
  
  Hey men, you have to wake up ! We got vista, we got dx10, we got next gen games on the way !!! 
 The reality is that every year they are making a lot of money with this : they don't have to pay 
 a full team to work on this game, they just have one or two guys who are working on roster and 
 things like that. After this, a lot of fanboys buy this game and give their money for an antique. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vfibsux
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot's review was pretty much right on. Once again EA screwed the PC users with another lame 
 roster update with a few other carrots inside that are not in themselves game changing. No next 
 gen graphics, same as last year's game. The user interface is the same old crap, only now standings 
 are not even readily available on the screen in franchise mode, you have to go through menu's to 
 get to them, or wait for your division on the scrolling bar. Plays exactly like 07, looks exactly 
 like 07, sounds exactly like 07. Animations are the same, tackling the same, catching the same, 
 DB's and LB's still get superman like speed and knock theball down right before it is going to 
 hit your receiver. You still throw routes out of bounds to backs coming out of the backfield. It 
 is all the same. Period. I won't even mention the new features because they are insignificant. 
 Every year I say I won't buy this game because they keep shafting PC users, yet every year I am 
 a sucker. Don't be a sucker too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grimmace013
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 21, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Although nothing drastic is here, there are few great things! They fixed most it! Yes, I am giving 
 it a good score because EA actually did their job and delivered a working program. I am shocked! 
 SLI works, Widescreen mode works, kick returns work, and I have not seen most of the other bugs 
 from last year. Yes, PC got screwed again by having the worst version on the best most advanced 
 platform, but at least it works enough where I can play games with out having to worry about it 
 crashing or losing a game because the regular kick return play doesn't work (and I forgot) . So, 
 yes, I am guilty of rewarding mediocrity, but I am just happy it works. Maybe PC will get the NextGen 
 treatment next year. Hey, want do you want for a game with no competition. Overall, it's okay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Netherscourge
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 20, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  No need to post a review of this game - just re-read the Madden 2007 PC reviews.
  
  Once again, EA just ports the Xbox/PS2 version to the PC, instead of giving us the Next-Gen experience 
 that our 2007 PC's can handle...
  
  Don't waste your money on this game if you already own the 2007 version, because it's the same 
 exact game.
  
  If you don't own 2007, then this game is half-decent. However, it's essentially the PS2/Xbox1 version. 
 If you want to see Next-Gen quality Madden, you have to buy an Xbox360.
  
  EA/Tiburon allocates the majority of it's development funding and manpower to the Next-Gen consoles. 
 Alll other platforms get roster updates and Current-Gen rehashes.
  
  The only good news I can offer is that the PC version works flawlessly with an Official Xbox360 
 USB Controller - but don't expect it to work too well with any other controllers... If you don't 
 have the 6 PC controllers they list on their website, chances are it won't work with the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamegeek222
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  Going in, my expectations were low. How much can they change to this game? Answer - not much! Some 
 ole pre-season drills, pretty much same interface. There are a few new moves and some other small 
 changes to the game. Nothing that will knock your socks off.
  However, this game still plays well to me. I start my Dallas Cowboys franchise and go for the coveted 
 Super Bowl trophy.
  Could this game just have been released as a patch? Yes. I have spent my hard earned money on much 
 worse titles than this game. That is why I give it a 7.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denis763
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 19, 2007 3:11 am PT
Review:  Looks like a Madden 07 game. I set it to the max. 1440 x 900, all the Video Setting to High. The 
 game runs smooth, but it looks like crap, looks like 07 exactly. I don't even know if i should 
 upgrade my PC any more, I mean whats the point if EA puts out such garbage without improvement. 
 To tell you the truth i have play about 15 minutes total of the game before I quit and thru the 
 **** in the garbage. First look at it will remind you of 07, the menus are the same just color 
 change, whoa what a change, k you pass that hoping that they will use the power of a PC to show 
 something batter in the game, not, it's just a roster update. If you are thinking of buying this 
 game for the PC, don't stick with 07 if you have it, download a free roster update on the net 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krypto_USA
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  I guess I'm like everyone else. I thought that maybe we'd see some fixes and some new stuff in 
 this game and it would keep the interest alive another year. Didn't happen.
  
  I had these fantasies that they would enhance the franchise mode with things like 3-way trades, 
 multiple franchise ownership, recruiting across the globe, seeding players in the upcoming draft 
 and so on. If I sit around for a few hours and think about it, I can envision quite a new gaming 
 experience. I wonder why the people who do this for a living at EA don't go through the same process.
 
  
  And I thought maybe they would fix all the annoying gameplay issues like the bouncing menus and 
 the lack of a QB slide key for the PC version.
  
  But alas, none of that happened. The only improvement that I can detect is the loss of the Tony 
 Bruno show. Thank god for that. The interface is WORSE than last year, which was worse than the 
 previous and so on. I get repetitive stress in my hand, after only a couple hours of playing, from 
 struggling with the slippery, bouncing menus in Franchise Mode. I'm mainly a Franchise Mode player, 
 but I did check out the Career Mode, and it's still as unplayable this year as last. The only improvement 
 is that they did away with the weird genetic experiment of selecting your parents. Madden still 
 does the color announcing in Franchise, however he's gone in Career Mode. By the way, I still can't 
 understand why they don't give you optional camera views in Career Mode. I just can't play that 
 helmet-cam view and I'd like to go widescreen like I do in Franchise. But I don't think anyone 
 at EA has even thought of giving options.
  
  I don't think anyone at EA really cares what PC gamers would like to see in this game, to tell 
 you the truth. It's all about the XBox nowadays.
  
  My analysis of this game is pretty the same as everyone else's - it's Madden 07 with a few cosmetic 
 changes. It's hard to believe that EA has the chutzpah to charge us full price for a patch upgrade.
 
  
  Aren't we all glad that EA has no competitors in this genre? Yeah right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akarikk
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 18, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  Nothing Change, well, the interface, but everything is the same, they have added some few things 
 but is not enough to pay more for a game thats now on $10.- on stores whit a little difference 
 of a 07 for a 08.
  
  SHAME, this game cold be much better, next year, I will thing if I buy it or not.
  
  Maybe 
 they can add some bonus features like a midtime show on the super bowl, that would be nice. maybe 
 some dirt on the uniforms on a rainy day, like en madden 2001?, what about giving us more extras 
 instead taking some features out and in every year just you can say, ohhhhh its new, come on give 
 us more.
  
  Also something I like got removed EA radio show, well yes it get repetitive with time but it was 
 nice to hear about your team. Can you hear madden voice last ... 7 years? is just the same, nothing 
 changed over the years.
  
  Can't they make better graphics? I think they can, but is easy just take last year game, change 
 it the number (of the year) , a new interface, make some changes on the roster, and there you go 
 a new game for $50. Why not sell it just like one update on or expansion set, for a cheaper price.
 
  
  about the game, is good, nice, cuz, if you think last year game was it or is this last year game?, 
 I don't know, I think this is a d&eacute; j&agrave; vu 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starwars2000
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 17, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  PC games are going down in flames.
  Soon they will be a thing of a past.
  After I watched review for xbox360 i thought my god this is good.
  After I installed PC version... my 
 god this is crap.
  Everything is the same except they added new icons over players heads.
  The sideline and the audience..... same.
  But in xbox360 it is marvelous.
  Madden 07 was great 
 for me and i rated it with high mark.
  This edition, 3.2 just because it's madden.
  PC gamers must stand up once and for all and take back the gaming industry.
  I am positive that 
 all of ea-sports games coming for 08 edition for consoles will be great and PC users will be rip 
 off once again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackLabel677
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 17, 2007 4:37 am PT
Review:  I don't even care about the new features with this game. The appeal of the new season of Madden 
 was sleeker visuals, character models and animations. Any amount of new features cannot make this 
 game feel new. I bet the AI is exactly the same, too. These guys should take a hint from the Tiger 
 franchise and send it over to a new developing team... unless PC users get the old style Tiger 08 
 too... which would throw me into a fit of rage. Like everyone else says, if you have Madden 07, 
 then there is no need to play this one.
  
  This game should be recalled and re-released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrokenDreams13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 4:25 am PT
Review:  One of the longest running and most successful video game franchises of all time makes its return 
 here for the 2007-2008 NFL football season. The game needs no introduction, its Madden NFL 08. 
 You know Madden, your friends know Madden, your parents know Madden, even the ninety year old man 
 living across the street knows Madden. The name Madden has become a household name across the country 
 during the past decade, and its not because of the legendary coach and broadcaster John Madden 
 either. Games like this dont become this popular overnight, but after a while Madden was the only 
 game people thought of when discussing football video games. This led to, as the games front cover 
 will tell you, the series becoming the number one selling football franchise of all time. The series 
 rose to its eventual nirvana in 2004, and even bought the NFL license during this time to prevent 
 any form of competition. Since then the series has seen a steady decline in quality, eventually 
 leading them to release quite possibly the worst installment in 2005 on the Xbox 360. Unfamiliarity 
 of the new console was to blame, and to be fair, we can understand. Although a lot of the problems 
 were addressed in the next installment, Madden NFL 07 still failed to deliver what fans of the 
 series had hoped to see again. So after three years of practice on the new hardware, EA Tiburon 
 has finally hit the sweet spot. Madden NFL 08 is most certainly the best football game of this 
 generation, and one of the better ones in EAs long running series.
  
  One of the most immediate things you will notice upon playing your first game is the new player 
 weapon system. This is a way of letting players easily decipher who the playmakers are on the team, 
 as well as which ones are good in certain situations. There are twenty weapons in all, ranging 
 from an accurate quarterback to a press coverage defensive back, and cover all facets of the game. 
 Not all players are a weapon of course, thus giving the honor of being one a pretty big deal. Before 
 the ball is snapped, the weapons on the field are displayed for each team. This is done with an 
 icon that appears under each impact player. By seeing these playmakers before the snap, you are 
 given the chance to adjust your defense or offense to prevent or exploit mismatches. If youre 
 playing defense and see a big weapon on the other teams offense, you might want to set an extra 
 defender to pay a little more attention to that player. Once the ball is snapped however, all of 
 the icons disappear and the play resumes as usual. The individual ratings of each player are what 
 denotes them as weapons or not. If a quarterback has a high rating in throwing power, then they 
 are labeled as a Cannon Arm QB. Every single weapon has its own set of strengths and weaknesses. 
 The aforementioned quarterback skill is very good at launching the deep ball or throwing a bullet 
 pass over the middle before the defenders can react, but on the other hand, the same quarterback 
 may not be able to always put the ball where he wants it to go. Thus resulting in an array of off 
 passes, sometimes sailing over the receivers head or in the arms of a defensive back. The game 
 has information on each and every weapon class, as well as tips on how to counter them while on 
 the field.
  
  The weapons system isnt the only thing new to Madden NFL 08, as the entire interface and menu 
 system have been seemingly hacked and built from the ground up. The first thing you will encounter 
 once the game is up and running is the new showcase feature. This is a 3D environment that displays 
 trophies you earn while playing the game, as well as your ring progress. The rings are basically 
 the new version of the Madden gamer level that was in 07. It works pretty much the same way as 
 the aforementioned system. You earn points after every game that correspond to your performance 
 during that game. Once the game is over you are shown the progress you are making towards your 
 next ring as well as how many trophies you unlocked. There are six rings in all, with the last 
 one resembling a Super Bowl championship ring with your teams logo on it. You can also order any 
 of these rings from Jostens if you are so inclined, but it does get kind of pricey. You can also 
 view replays of any play that occurred during the game, this is a first for any football game. 
 Most of the other new features in this years Madden are things that were new four years ago 
 but have eluded the series ever since it entered the new generation.
  
  When it comes to gameplay, Madden has been historically great, but not always the best. Although 
 fun, the series hasnt really been known for the realistic gameplay that we see in other football 
 games. This was especially evident in 2004 when ESPN NFL 2k5 took on Madden NFL 2005. The differences 
 were enormous and most people thought that 2k5 was the superior product. It seemed like EA were 
 ignoring the critics and gamers on this subject for the past few years, until now. Madden NFL 08 
 is quite possibly the most satisfying and enjoyable game of football the series has ever seen, 
 with tons of new animations and player specific play styles. And yes, the long overdue gang tackles 
 are finally here! Even with these improvements however, the gameplay is still not as good as you 
 would have hoped it to be. It still feels more arcadey than the other big football game on the 
 market, All Pro Football 2k8, and there are still things they can improve upon for next years 
 release.
  
  Much has been said about the PlayStation 3s version having half the frames that the Xbox 360 version 
 has, and yes you can definitely tell the difference. The 360 version runs at a smooth sixty frames 
 per second, whereas the PS3s game runs at thirty, and sometimes dips below that and chops up a 
 bit. So if you own both consoles and are trying to decide which is the right one to buy, the Xbox 
 360 version is without a doubt the way to go. If you only own a PlayStation 3 however, dont let 
 this prevent you from getting this game because it is still a very fine product.
  
  When EA made it to the next generation, their one goal was to bring the HD experience into all 
 of their sports titles. This somehow effected all of the games features and left many people thinking 
 they spent a little too much time on those high definition graphics. Well now that they have brought 
 back most of the features that made the series so great in the first place, we can finally feel 
 good about the graphics. Madden NFL 08 looks just as sharp as you would expect, and looks stunning 
 on either an HD or SD television. The grass behaves as youd expect it to, and gets messed up from 
 constant play. The same goes for the players jerseys, and they might even get torn after constant 
 bashing. But like all Madden games, this one ultimately looks just like the other current generation 
 games in the series, with some nice improvements of course.
  
  John Madden and Al Michaels do not announce the games like in years past, instead 08 has the same 
 EA radio announcer that has been used in the previous two installments, and does a pretty good 
 job overall. The audio bits are pretty much the same as the last two years, and this can get tiresome 
 after long play sessions. John still shows up when you select ask Madden when picking plays, so 
 hes not completely gone just yet. One thing that is new to the series is Marshalls Minute, which 
 is just a small segment before and after each game where Marshall Faulk tells you his predictions 
 and some other random tidbits that are hardly worth mentioning. Needless to say this is a pretty 
 terrible feature that adds nothing to the game has a whole, except comedy because its so bad. 
 The crowd noise is pretty unpredictable because they dont seem to know which team to root for 
 at times. Sometimes they will even cheer an away teams touchdown, its really puzzling. Like all 
 Madden games there is a wide variety of music to be heard while surfing the menus, almost too wide 
 in fact. Theres even a new Ozzy tune in the mix, its not Crazy Train but its good none the less.
 
  
  The one remarkable thing about this years Madden is its incredible depth in comparison to the 
 previous games in the series. This is the first time this generation that weve seen any kind of 
 owner mode, create-a-team, create-a-stadium, or even mini games. All of these features are a sight 
 for sore eyes, as its been three long years since weve seen them. Like I mentioned before, the 
 rings system is the new Madden Gamer level, so if youre into that kind of thing it will keep you 
 playing for a while. As far as multiplayer goes, its pretty much untouched from last years game. 
 There are still no online leagues or tournaments, so all you can really do are one on one matches. 
 It really is quite puzzling because other football games have had these features for quite some 
 time now. With the multi-player aside however, this is most definitely the deepest game of football 
 on the market today.
  
  With 2Ks return to the football world, EA responds with one of its better efforts in recent memory. 
 Some people might say that 2Ks return is the sole reason, but I think this would have happened 
 eventually. They were close in 2006, and are there now in 2007. This game is perfect for anyone 
 who enjoys the sport of football, as well as people who are new to the game. Its easy for just 
 about anyone to pick up and play, and still stays true to the hardcore Madden gamers out there. 
 Madden NFL 08 brings back everything you remember from the glory days and even adds some new twists 
 here and there. All together this title is the best football game of this year. Its fun to play, 
 great to look at, and it has tons of content for you to enjoy until next year. Madden Nation is 
 still as strong as ever.
  
  ~Mike Pelletier 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wbknapp
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is a complete let-down. There are few enhancements, and other than having updated rosters, 
 there's no reason whatsoever to buy this game. You don't even get to listen to John Madden annouce 
 games anymore, which is a bit surprising given the title of the game. Some may say that John's 
 getting a little long in the tooth to be recording hours of voice-overs for these games anymore. 
 Given that EA re-hashed every other aspect of the game from previous versions, however, I can't 
 understand why they didn't just re-hash Madden's voice-overs too! The graphics, animations and 
 gameplay are almost exactly the same as 2007.
  
  Unless you absolutely have to play with the current rosters, save yourself the $50... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boogie_pop
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  I read some of the reviews and I don't know WHAT these guys are talking about. Madden 08 PC runs 
 FANTASTIC on my rig, with a geforce 8800 Ultra OC, 2GB 1066MHz and E6850 @3.5GHz. running at 1920x1200. 
 The graphics are just as good as Xbox360 if not better. This games runs SILKY SMOOTH PEOPLE. Add 
 that with a 360 controller and you have one hell of a game. The new animations are great and the 
 control is responsive. There are a couple of issues with the game like the fumble rate is a little 
 high and Madden 08 PC lacks some of the features of the Xbox360 and PS3 but its still a GREAT game. 
 If you have the hardware, I suggest you buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: togmkn2
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Despite the hype behind this release and reviewers singing its praises on the 360 and PS3, for 
 a PC game Madden 08 hits rock bottom. And the rock it hit is covered with dog crap. (I think I 
 painted that metaphor nicely, thanks.)
  
  Everything new in Madden 08 could have been a patch for Madden 07, and EA Sports would have been 
 hailed as heroes of PC gaming for making it. However, spending $50 on a new menu layout and the 
 ability to set double coverage on a receiver has so far made PC gamers loathe EA for screwing them 
 (again) .
  
  One thing I was looking forward to in this title were graphics on par with the Xbox 360/PS3. So, 
 you can imagine my disappointment when I saw the two-dimensional crowd and sideline players that 
 looked like something from NFL 2K for the Dreamcast.
  
  The only reason to get this game would be for the minor gameplay improvements and new menu screens/interface, 
 but if you already have Madden 07 that's hardly worth it. If you don't have a football game on 
 your shelf, then I would recomment picking up Madden 08, since it's a solid football game in itself. 
 When looking at it as an annual release with my promises, though, this is a terrible game.
  
  Oh, I almost forgot: if you want to play online you'll have to pick up Madden 08, since EA 
 has canceled online matchmaking for 07. How nice.
  
  I'm giving Madden 08 a 3.5 for sheer disappointment and seemingly intentional screwing of the PC 
 gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_rock1987
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 16, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  This is just another letdown from EA. The game is the basically just Madden 07 with a roster update. 
 Yes there are a few tweaks in the game but it isn't worth the $39.99 that is needed to buy the 
 game.
  
  Graphics are the same as usual. Its just the same as 07 and 06.
  
  Sound is just bad. Did they just repackage the same Madden and Michaels play by play from last 
 year? I didn't care much for the soundtrack so i just used my music files.
  
  I'm still gonna play the game because its all that i have for PC but i just wish that EA would 
 do more for the PC Gamers Of The World. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wae69
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Wow!! I don't mean the wow you get from sitting in the front row, watching your favorite sports 
 team, or even the wow you get from watching your favortie sports team getting pummeled by the opposition. 
 No, I mean the wow' you get when someone within earshot makes a comment that is so offending you 
 don't even get mad. You just stare blankly and say Wow, I didn't know people were still this stupid. 
 EA is that kind of stupid. The stupid that makes next-gen for next-gen consoles, and current -gen 
 games for current-gen console, but in al there haste or ignorance they decide to make a flat out 
 crappy game for the console that has ruled all consoles since the beginning of the beginning of 
 consoles. That console is the computer. Of course I know that and you know that, but it seems the 
 people in charge at EA have never heard of a computer. Hmmm? Madden 08 for the pc is such a waste 
 of... oh no wait... it's not a waste of anything, because to be a waste of something there actually 
 has to be something there for there to be a waste of. So Madden 08 for the pc isn't a waste. Its 
 graphics are so hideous and its online mode is so primitive that and its gameplay is so boring 
 that it'll have you wondering if you'd be having more fun playing catch with the box it came in... and 
 believe me when I say EA's nerve has reached critical point when the best new feature they can 
 offer is Widescreen Support . I think your money would be put to better use if you wiped your... 
 but I won't go that far with it. Not because it isn't that bad, but because the smile you might 
 crack when you read that sentence would be wasted at the expense of a horrible game getting too 
 much attention. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nace84
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 4:05 am PT
Review:  There is not much to say about the new madden: in one word disappointing! Not that it is a bad 
 game, it plays well, but there is nothing new from the 07 version, just rooster update and some 
 little work. They could do such a game in one month, not one year or they could put a free update 
 and not charge 30$ for this update .
  And what makes me feel bad is that you see such great previews of the xbox and ps3 game, and then 
 you get nothing of that on your pc version : (
  
  Because, i did not reach the 100 characters yet, i'm going to suggest you not to buy the pc version 
 and start saving for the xbox or ps3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rgray34
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 15, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  I really was also unhappy about the same oh graphics nothing seemed to changed from the last game 
 all looks the same. I was also look for a real in the game high lights of in game plays like the 
 one your friends would like to see. Also game highlights from other game while playing your game 
 would also be nice. I was expecting more. But eye candy and higlights like pre-game halftime and 
 post game raps video etc would have game the game more hype it just builds the excitement like 
 when as college Michigan vrs Ohio State. I hope ea reads these comments!!!!!!!! Why does the college 
 football game like ncaa 08 seem more fun. And last and not least how come game companys are leaning 
 to the console and forgetting us pc  
::::::

::::::
UserName: welroon
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 15, 2007 10:01 pm PT
Review:  As I do every year, I eagerly awaited the new release of Madden for PC and even reserved a copy 
 and stood in line at Gamestop at the Midnight release hoping i was going to finally be blown away 
 with some next-gen graphics but to my dismay I was offered another last-gen version with some added 
 features and updated rosters. I have to admit there are some really cool new animations and the 
 framerate is really smoothe, but why couldn't EA implement better graphics like the consoles have? 
 To sum it up, why are those of us who spend good money to upgrade our systems in order to be able 
 to support high-end graphics at blazing frames per second keep getting ripped off year after year? 
 Is it because EA has to make the game playable for people with crappy computer systems who are 
 too cheap to upgrade? Couldn't they just make options in the settings to allow those people to 
 still play the game at low settings while those of us who have the capability can enjoy it with 
 the same quality if not better than the console versions? I do appreciate that they gave us widescreen 
 support this year which does improve the graphics but they are still not next-gen. Please EA, if 
 you're planning on phasing us PC madden player out then just tell us that you are not going to 
 implement the high-end graphics and capabilities that the computer has, so we can stop getting 
 our hopes up year after year and keep spending $40 on a game that should and could be so much better. 
 If we don't start seeing some major improvements or some kind of patch then I'm sorry to say EA, 
 but you are going to lose a lot of faithful Madden players. And don't assume that we will go out 
 and buy an Xbox 360 or PS3 because many of us won't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclavius
Rating: 3.2
Date: Aug 15, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  For having the audacity to release this game on PC. One word can describe it -disaster. Last Madden 
 game i purchased for PC was 06. Two years have gone by and this game has new interface and that 
 is about it. It does not work on Widescreen 50' TV, and i don't know if this is due to NVidia drivers 
 or the game. I have 8800 graphic card with the newest drivers, which are BETA, and this might be 
 causing some problems. But the graphics and the game play are just plain unacceptable. I should 
 have known that not having Games for Windows displayed on the cover would mean that EA sports were 
 not really ready to release this on Vista. Another giveaway was that a retail store dropped the 
 price from 39.99 to 29.99 one day before the launch. Now why in the world would they do that? Now 
 i know.
  Since i could not get the game working on a big screen TV i installed it on 19 monitor, and this 
 is working as expected. But there is not much difference between this game and 06 version, just 
 updated rosters and few knew hits and options. If you want to spend $30, which is not that much, 
 and try to play this game go ahead. Otherwise, i suggest you save your money and wait for the next 
 year version - if that ever comes out.
  FYI, be aware this review is just for the PC version. I heard good things about Xbox 360 version, 
 but did not see it yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nunyerbiz
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 15, 2007 8:51 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: A number of little tweaks to the already solid 2007 game make their way in to this new 
 version. The control seems slightly tighter and the AI appears to be sharper. While not anything 
 major, the gameplay has been tweaked enough to offer at least a somewhat noticeable improvement 
 over 2007. Animations are improved, the hit stick works a lot better and the engine seems to do 
 a better job of picking what pre-canned animation your player will use when you hit a certain controller 
 button. For example, jumping straight up into the air to catch a ball that is landing at your feet 
 doesn't seem to be as big of an issue when you hit the catch button. All in all, a number of small 
 improvements to an already solid game. Graphics: Same old engine that's been with the PC / PS2 
 / XBox for the last 3 years or whatever. It really is about time for EA to port from the 360 version. 
 That said, the game looks fine even if things are getting dated. I'm not terribly concerned about 
 needing to slam my SLI rig everytime I play a game... as long as the gameplay is solid. Of course, 
 I really hope the PC version gets some more attention for 2009 with a new graphics engine based 
 on the x360.
  
  Sound: Nothing new here. The sound is nothing to write home about. A bunch of recycled stuff from 
 previous versions. It does the job well enough, but isn't very flashy and suffers from the same 
 issues that the last few releases have. Mainly, repetitive commentary and a surprising amount of 
 calls from Madden himself that are just downright inaccurate. I listen to my own music when I play... 
 so it's not really an issue for me. Your experience may vary. Value: If you haven't played Madden 
 for a few years or have never played Madden at all, this is a great game. Go out and buy it, you 
 won't be let down. Once you get the hang of things and tweak the AI settings the way you like it's 
 easy to get a very fun and challenging game of football going. If you have purchased the last two 
 versions of Madden for the PC, there really isn't any pressing need to upgrade to 2008.
  
  Tilt: I wish I would have waited three or four months, when the price on the PC version usually 
 drops to half of the release date asking price. That's what I did with 2007 and I was perfectly 
 happy with dropping my twenty bucks. While 2008 offers some solid gameplay tweaks and polishing, 
 it's not nearly enough to justify a full purchase price for owners of 2007. Of course, if you don't 
 own any recent Madden game... this one won't lead you wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dejangorgevic
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 15, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  PC gamers are getting disappointed by EA Tiburon year after year. Obviously the Madden supporting 
 forums have not been visited at all, because they didnt take the time to fix at least one glitch 
 (bug) that has happened in earlier versions. Simulating bug still hasn't been fixed even though 
 it has been the main topic of every forum based on the EA Madden series. I can't realize why would 
 EA act so ignorantly on the PC gamers and push forward with the console based games leaving people 
 who play Madden on the PC empty - handed. Every little thing that we wanted added has been referred 
 as NEXT-GEN, believe me if this continues there won't be next gen Madden for the PC. I'm really 
 disappointed and hopefully EA will release a patch to make up for what they are doing to football 
 fans. The one good things about this game are the new animations, gang tackling and the wide screen 
 support. Weapons system (read &amp; react) doesn't make a difference. Adding the fact they didn't 
 fix any bugs, gamers like me found couple of more added!! Like the fumbling happening way to often 
 and the huge difference between All-Pro (+30 pts before half) and All-Madden (-30 pts before half) .
 
  Thats what i think, madden is, and always will be a great game, but with some improvements which 
 are required this should be the best game out there. So EA get of your lazy chairs and start working 
 on a patch. All the community will be grateful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wizallah
Rating: 5.3
Date: Aug 14, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  EA needs to upgrade the player models on the pc version. Madden '08 is nothing more than Madden 
 '07 with a few new features. Xbox 360 and PS3
  have new a commentator and Marshall Faulk post and pre game shows. The PC version has the same 
 recycled madden commentary from last year. Unfortunately there is no other football game on the 
 pc to choose from so your only option is to continue playing '07 or drop $40 bucks for a slightly 
 upgraded version of the same game. Madden '08 overall feels like a very lazy effort on EA's part. 
 Will the PC version of Madden ever get any love? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icurnvsnme
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 14, 2007 5:03 am PT
Review:  ... reminds me somewhat of the nascar sim racing debatacle.
  
  I preface with 'somewhat' because it's a a polished game, though no diamond in the rough to be 
 sure.
  
  game play good. graphics sub par. audio ok. animations actually kinda cool. It's more or less, 
 for the pc at least, a roster update from 2007. I didn't get an 8800 gts card so that i can play 
 a brand new game that requires 256 of ram (not video but on board) *cough cough hack weez...
  
  At least I can now slide with the qb when going past the line now.
  
  final word: ho-hum. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
