-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Madden NFL 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/maddennfl2002/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 24, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 7.3, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 145 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Genre: Football Sim
Date:     Aug 20, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
An extended period of time spent with Madden NFL 2002 will likely prove unfulfilling to all but 
 the most forgiving arcade sports gamers. 

 There are two ways of looking at Madden NFL 2002. Optimists might see a game that is significantly 
 better than its predecessor, one with helmets that reflect stadium lights and a respectable running 
 game. On the other hand, pessimists might note that last year's version is hardly a worthy benchmark; 
 that this new installment has significant gameplay balance issues that render each of the difficulty 
 settings dissatisfying; and that it's really nothing more than a port of last year's PlayStation 
 2 edition of Madden NFL 2001, warts and all.           Rivals meet in the Miami mud.    

  The truth falls somewhere between these two extremes, though an extended period of time spent with 
 Madden 2002 will likely prove unfulfilling to all but the most forgiving arcade sports gamers. 
 There are just too many hurdles to overcome. Although the customizable artificial intelligence 
 sliders and appreciable range of difficulty settings can make a huge difference in regard to realism, 
 you're always compensating for one problem or another. Finding an acceptable re-creation of the 
 NFL gridiron remains frustratingly elusive. No matter how much you tweak, the basic game engine 
 contains cracks in its foundation that can't be readily repaired.   

  Such flaws show up as soon as you get beyond your first few games and grow comfortable with both 
 the gameplay and the interface. Offensive play rapidly devolves to nothing but long-range passing. 
 Although the short game is properly realized, complete with agile cornerbacks and linebackers who 
 are quick to bat down a pass anywhere near them, patterns that go longer than around 15 yards send 
 the defenders into a vapor lock. At those distances and beyond, corners fixate on the receivers 
 they're covering and completely forget about the ball. They never glance back and seem blissfully 
 unaware of what's going on around them until the pigskin has been caught and they're required to 
 make a tackle. Virtually every quarterback in the game can rack up a minimum of 350 yards in the 
 air, every game. And that shouldn't be the case in a league featuring weak sisters like Tony Banks 
 and Charlie Batch, and hapless clubs like the Cleveland Browns.           Player models are authentic... right 
 down to rolls of fat.    

  You can address this problem somewhat by boosting the difficulty setting and adjusting the AI slider 
 bars to enhance computer defensive awareness and pass knockdowns, and reduce your own catching 
 ability. But the issue never really goes away, and the adjustments cause their own problems. Bump 
 the general difficulty up to all-pro or all-Madden, and you'll lose most of your ability to move 
 the ball on the ground. Running to the outside becomes virtually impossible, and going straight 
 up the gut is never worthwhile. Of course, this can be tweaked by adjusting the running ability 
 and run-blocking AI sliders -- though as in the case of the passing game, you can't fully compensate 
 for the problem. The all-Madden mode adds even more obstacles by apparently maxing out player abilities. 
 Defenders have both preternatural awareness of what you're about to attempt and godlike skill to 
 stop you from doing it. Be prepared to watch the likes of Warren Sapp running down cheetahs like 
 Randy Moss.   

  All of this adds up to create a game that's one-dimensional and rather boring, despite the aerial 
 displays that take place every time your players step onto the field. These issues waste the outstanding 
 depth of the game design and features, as only diehards of the Madden series will stay interested 
 long enough to enjoy the presence of all 31 NFL teams, plus the expansion Houston Texans and the 
 NFL Europe clubs, the new create-a-team option that lets you design a custom team logo and uniforms, 
 and the involving franchise mode (complete with the salary cap and coaching changes) . Speedier 
 Internet play will likely be embraced, as other human players can compensate for the weaknesses 
 outlined above, although that certainly can't make too much of a difference in regard to correcting 
 the serious run-and-pass imbalance.    

 One mitigating factor that makes Madden NFL 2002 entertaining for a longer period of time than it 
 should be is an impressive visual quality. This is almost certainly the best-looking sports game 
 ever released for the PC, or perhaps any platform. Tiburon Entertainment has perfected the television-style 
 presentation that's been the hallmark of EA Sports releases for a decade. Graphics are close to 
 photo-realistic, particularly the stunning player models that are so detailed that you can even 
 see the hair on their arms. Those typically unmoved by this sort of minutiae can't help but be 
 wowed by realistic facial features, authentic skin tones, and even the rolls of fat jiggling around 
 the bellies of offensive tackles.           Cornerbacks rarely see the ball until it's too late. 
    

  The animations are miles beyond those in last year's game. That awkward ramrod gait has been replaced 
 with motion-captured moves that are one step removed from NFL Films. Bulky linemen, lithe receivers, 
 power backs, and stand-up quarterbacks all move like their real-world counterparts, from their 
 powerful block to their acrobatic one-handed catches. Tackles are equally accurate -- and so diverse 
 that you'll rarely see a player brought down the same way twice in a game. They're even messy, 
 with running backs often staggering forward until a series of clumsy hits bring them to the ground 
 or with wide receivers getting knocked off stride by a near miss around the knees and stumbling 
 until they collapse. Best of all, offensive plays now look exactly as they should. In direct opposition 
 to recent Maddens, where the ball often bounced around subject to behind-the-scenes play result 
 determinations that were beyond the ability of the graphics engine to depict, here you can watch 
 the ball travel from quarterback to receiver without a hitch. Catches with the backs of helmets 
 and tosses emanating directly from a pivot's chest are finally a thing of the past.   

  Frills are everywhere. Helmets reflect light sources dynamically, so you'll see both the sun and 
 stadium lights shining around team logos. You can also adjust the time of day of the game. Play 
 in the morning and afternoon, and you'll have the sun high overhead; play at dusk, and you'll see 
 long shadows creeping across the field. The position of the sun even advances as day games progress. 
 This is particularly noticeable in contests that start at dusk, as shadows slowly move into an 
 end zone as the sun goes down. Stadiums themselves are filled with animated fans that bring the 
 surroundings to life. Officials are present on the sidelines, and last year's 2D cutouts of players 
 all wearing number 88 have been replaced by fully 3D models of players (with different numbers) 
 and coaches.           Poor speed rating or not, Warren Sapp covers a lot of ground here.    

 
  The only major complaint to be made about the presentation concerns the shoddy play-by-play. Considering 
 that the game bears the name of the biggest loudmouth in pro football, it's unfortunate that John 
 Madden and his broadcast buddy Pat Summerall seem like they're out to lunch for the majority of 
 each game. They contribute nothing but generic broadcasterese that has little to do with what's 
 actually going on, and they miss big plays entirely. The two remain silent while players are crossing 
 the goal line, while passes are being intercepted, and even while a dozen players are fighting 
 it out for fumbled balls bouncing around the turf. It would be comical if it weren't so annoying 
 to be kept in the dark about the results of the play. You'll often wait for 10 seconds or more 
 to find out if the ball carrier broke the plane of the goal line, or if a receiver managed to get 
 both feet down before going out of bounds. At least the on-field smashes, crashes, and groans of 
 pain are nicely realized.   

  All of this video and audio glitter is showcased between every play, courtesy of cutscene-like 
 close-ups and instant replays that take you into the trenches. These clips are lengthy but varied 
 and so reminiscent of watching TV on autumn Sunday afternoons that you'll often sit through them, 
 if only to see a player's reaction to what just unfolded. Gameplay flaws and all, it's still easy 
 to get wrapped up in a contest here because of the way that it unfolds.   

  Well, for a short period of time, at least. Madden NFL 2002 will wear out its welcome in short 
 order if you have any demands on the game as a serious simulation of the sport. Most will want 
 to move on to the current PlayStation 2 version of the game, which represents a year of design 
 improvements that this dated port does not. Arcade sports fans should be able to enjoy themselves 
 more, though even they will likely grow tired of the many limitations and quickly move on to something 
 else. It's worth a look only if you're curious about the eye candy, and if you're curious about 
 seeing just what is possible on a contemporary PC. This is one of those games that people may want 
 to have in their collections simply to show off the raw power of their expensive gaming rigs. Actually 
 playing the game should be a secondary concern, if it's any concern at all.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: youtack
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 5, 2007 4:56 am PT
Review:  Madden 2002 was the first sports video game that I evered owned and back then I thought that it 
 was awesome. But now I still think its not a bad game but seems a little old. First off, the graphics 
 for PC are pretty solid but could use a little touch up. Second of all the commentary sometimes 
 has breaks in it for 20 seconds make it sound like they don't talk very much. Gameplay is also 
 very simple so anybody can begin playing ounce they get it. Franchise mode is basic but is not 
 that bad ounce you begin it. The only bad thing about the play week is that you you can't only 
 view your team's games. Overall this is not a bad game to own, but I would recommend a newer version 
 of Madden. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOZFAN6537
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jan 19, 2007 7:33 am PT
Review:  Usually outdated sports games are fun Madden 2002 isn't mostly because I played this game so much 
 back when it was good. But if you play a newer Madden game then play an older one there is some 
 noticable differences but those are mostly game modes and rosters. But the gameplay is just about 
 the same only it feels tighter in the newer versions.
  
  All 32 teams that are playing now are available to choose from but you have to go through a little 
 trouble if you want to play as the Texans. Since this game is from 2002 the rosters are very different 
 but unless your someone who really cares about having the right player it shouldn't really matter.
 
  
  The dynasty mode is very good after you play through your entire season it will go into the off-season 
 where you will have a draft and see how many of your players retired. When your playing an actual 
 game its not too bad but the gameplay is almost exactly the same as the newer versions.
  
  The graphics in Madden 2002 are okay but they are much smoother on the consoles and look blocky 
 on the PC. The sound is terrible the anouncers are even more annoying then they are in the newer 
 versions and the soundtrack is small and terrible. Madden 2002's only saving grace it that you 
 can get it for abou two or three dollars but compared to the newer version Madden 2002 just doesn't 
 hold up.
  
  ~LOZFAN6537 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
