-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Madden NFL 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/madden2004/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 15, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 8.8, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 395 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Tiburon
Genre: Football Sim
Date:     Aug 12, 2003
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Madden NFL 2004 covers nearly every facet of professional football, but what makes this year's entry 
 in the series so special is that it ties all its components together seamlessly. 

  It's not an easy task for a development team to make enough improvements to a yearly sports game 
 series to warrant a purchase every year. However, EA Sports has not only managed to add enough 
 features and gameplay tweaks to make Madden NFL 2004 a more than worthy purchase for those who 
 bought last year's game, but it has also created one of best football games to date. Madden NFL 
 2004 covers nearly every facet of professional football, but what makes this year's entry in the 
 series so special is that it ties all its components together seamlessly. Even the new gameplay 
 features have been integrated incredibly well, and the result is a game that models the sport of 
 professional football much more intricately than any other game before it.  

          Madden NFL 2004 boasts a number of new features.     

  A perfect example of this is 
 the playmaker control feature, though a gamepad with a dual-analog stick setup is required to actually 
 use it. While it initially seems like nothing more than a quick audible option, playmaker control 
 is actually much more than that. Before the snap of the ball, if you don't like what you're seeing 
 on the defensive side of the ball, you can adjust the offensive play to compensate without calling 
 an audible. For example, if a linebacker appears to be blitzing on the side you're about to run 
 a halfback toss to, you can change the direction of the run on the fly by simply pressing the right 
 analog stick in the opposite direction.  

  Similarly, after the ball's been snapped, you can direct teammates on the field to block opposing 
 players in front of the ballcarrier by pressing the right analog stick in the appropriate direction. 
 There's a little bit of risk involved in doing this, since its effectiveness depends on the speed 
 of the teammate running over to block. In fact, when calling for a block in this fashion, you may 
 be tempted to head for the teammate once you've told him to throw a block in an attempt to put 
 him in between you and the defensive player more quickly. But you'll quickly discover this rarely 
 ever works and almost always results in an appreciable loss of yards. In any case, the playmaker 
 controls for directing your blockers prove to be quite valuable when used in the correct situation. 

  Running isn't the only facet of the gameplay in which playmaker control can be used. When using 
 it on a passing play before the snap, playmaker control can quickly change the route of a receiver 
 if there appears to be a gap in the secondary. When the ball is snapped, playmaker control can 
 then be used to have a designated receiver break off his route and go in a variety of directions -- even 
 back toward the line of scrimmage. Again, there's a fair amount of risk involved, since the defensive 
 line and linebackers are constantly gunning for the quarterback, but if it looks like you have 
 enough time and it appears that you can get a receiver open by having him change direction, you 
 can use this technique to pick up a few extra yards.  

  Defensively, the playmaker mechanic isn't quite as prominent. Essentially, if you see a key receiver 
 lining up one-on-one with a cornerback that you don't have too much confidence in, then playmaker 
 can be used to shift your coverage over to that side, making it a little more difficult for the 
 receiver to get open. If the ball has already been snapped, then playmaker control can be used 
 to shift your overall coverage to run or pass. It's these subtle nuances created by the playmaker 
 control scheme that make Madden NFL 2004 that much more strategic and fun to play than its predecessors. 

  Of course, there are plenty of other ways to modify plays on the defensive and offensive sides 
 of the ball. On defense, you can shift the defensive line and the linebackers to compensate for 
 any possible gaps that may appear in the line or to cover the outside better in the event of a 
 toss. Offensively, audibles are still incredibly useful, and you can modify them in the coach's 
 area in the menu.  

          Playmaker controls are an integral part of the gameplay.     

  The fundamental gameplay 
 mechanics in Madden NFL 2004 have also been slightly tweaked. Like in NCAA Football 2004 for the 
 consoles, play-action passing plays are much more effective against opponents, especially those 
 controlled by human players, since the camera briefly follows the running back -- making it seem 
 as though it's actually a running play -- before panning back to the quarterback. The running game 
 in general feels much better, especially when you're running the ball up the middle, since the 
 offensive lines tend to be a little more adept at opening holes when linebackers and safeties aren't 
 shooting the gaps -- in other words, getting stuck behind the ample posterior of an offensive lineman 
 is much less of a problem than it was in the previous game. Running to the outside is also executed 
 quite well and requires you to determine the best angle to take after your fullback has blocked 
 a linebacker or a lineman has pulled from the opposite side of the line to make a block downfield. 

  Having a successful passing game in Madden NFL 2004 requires much more thought than you might initially 
 suspect, especially since the defensive backs are much more adept at stepping into zones and going 
 after balls. Setting aside the playmaker controls for a moment, if you see a receiver in relatively 
 tight zone coverage, then the chances for a successful completion are relatively low -- even when 
 running a quick out route, something that would usually guarantee a few yards. Conversely, if you 
 see a receiver in tight man-to-man coverage running a streak, then you can try to lob the pass 
 and hope for the best. But for the most part, a successful passing game requires you to identify 
 the defensive coverage in the secondary, as well as that split second in the receiver's route when 
 he'll be open.     

  With all these slight refinements and changes, even blitzing seems to have much greater risks and 
 rewards. Audibles and the playmaker control can negate the effects of a blitz, but the playmaker 
 control also requires the offensive player to think just a little bit more than he or she normally 
 would, giving the defense one or two more precious seconds to hit the ballcarrier behind the line 
 of scrimmage. This is especially true for human opponents, though the AI for computer-controlled 
 opponents is pretty good about not cheating when it comes to reading a blitz.  

          You have to be able to read the defense to have a successful passing game.     

  All 
 these changes are great, but perhaps one of the biggest single reasons to buy Madden NFL 2004 is 
 the owner mode, which is directly tied to the game's franchise mode. The owner mode gives you an 
 entirely new perspective on the sport by portraying it as a business where you have to do everything 
 in your power to ensure not only that the fans are happy, but also that you're making enough money 
 to support the team and the stadium. If your team is doing well, then it won't be necessary to 
 constantly adjust the prices of tickets (which are broken down according to the different sections 
 in the stadium) , merchandise (programs, hats, jerseys, bobble heads, and foam fingers) , snacks 
 (such as beer, soda, and popcorn) , and parking. You can also decide how much money you want to 
 spend on promoting the team through advertising, but that depletes your overall budget, which may 
 make it difficult to go for a high-profile free agent in the off-season. If your team is performing 
 poorly, compiling a losing record or missing the playoffs a number of years in a row, then fan 
 support will wane, forcing you to constantly adjust prices in an effort to get the fans to come 
 back.  

  Fortunately, you'll have plenty of information and advice at your fingertips to figure out what's 
 wrong with your team from a business perspective. Not only will you have advisers who give you 
 basic information on what you can do to quickly improve fan support, but you'll also have access 
 to graphs and charts that will show you how the team has done over the course of the season financially. 
 In addition, at any time during the season, you can access a balance sheet to see how much income 
 you have and what your major expenses are. You can use this information to determine if you want 
 to hire a new, higher-profile coach (though it's also possible to promote offensive and defensive 
 coordinators if you don't particularly care for your current head coach) , go after a talented free 
 agent, trade for an additional draft pick, or save your money and lower prices for the next season. 
 The owner mode offers a surprising amount of freedom to do what you want -- you can even rebuild 
 your stadium or move the team to a completely different city -- but if you're careless with your 
 money or in your decisions, your team's chances of being successful will be quite low.  

  If you don't feel like dealing with the business side of the NFL, you can simply turn the owner 
 mode off, and the game will automatically change to a more standard franchise mode. However, there 
 are some slight differences from last year's franchise mode. The training camp mode has been integrated 
 into the franchise mode, and it now has a direct effect on players. For example, in the passing 
 drills, you can select any quarterback on your roster, and if that quarterback happens to perform 
 well in the drills, you'll receive a certain number of points to upgrade that player's attributes. 
 All the other modes in Madden NFL 2004 are pretty much the same as in last year's game. You can 
 create players, teams, and playbooks. There are also tournament, minicamp, two-minute drill, practice, 
 and situation options.  

  The graphics haven't been changed all that much from last year either. Some minor enhancements 
 were made to the player models, but they still have the somewhat generic look that the series has 
 been known for the past couple of years. The sideline detail has been improved slightly, and the 
 stadiums are incredibly accurate. Some cool minor details from last year's game have also returned -- if 
 you're playing on a grass field, for example, the quality of the field will degrade over the course 
 of the game. Likewise, players' jerseys will get progressively dirtier if they're constantly being 
 slammed into the ground. The already great animation also looks like it's been improved with more 
 tackling animations and general bumps and shoves. However, the lighting in the PC version looks 
 a little odd and occasionally tends to give the game a washed-out look.  

  As for sound, the commentary in Madden NFL 2004 has been slightly improved -- at least for Al Michaels, 
 who has plenty to say on just about every single type of play. Unfortunately, Madden continues 
 to be a weak spot. John just repeats himself far too often, and his comments can often be a little 
 too generic. However, the interaction between the two sounds much more natural and less like a 
 bunch of lines that were simply pasted together. The soundtrack is bolstered by licensed music 
 from a variety of artists. The soundtrack covers a handful of genres, and most players will probably 
 enjoy the wide range of music that's been selected for the game.  

          The online mode in the PC version offers much more than any console version of the game. 
     

  What ultimately sets the PC version apart from the console versions of the game is its online play, 
 which is simply far more robust than anything the PlayStation 2 version of the game has to offer. 
 Not only can you set up tournaments, but you can also create leagues (and schedule games for participants 
 in that league) and clubs. Though there's plenty to do in Madden NFL 2004's online mode, online 
 league play may be too enticing for some fans to pass up.  

  In any case, it's obvious that this year's Madden was designed primarily for consoles, and as such, 
 some features, such as playmaker control, were designed with dual-analog-stick-equipped gamepads 
 in mind. In fact, one of our dual-analog gamepads didn't even work properly with the game, and 
 other users have reported similar issues. There's also an added fee for the online mode if you 
 want to play past the trial period, but if you're a football fan willing to make such an investment, 
 you'll find that all the new features have been integrated so well into the preexisting framework 
 that it seems like they've always been there. Indeed, you might wonder how you even played previous 
 games in the series without the playmaker controls. The console route may be a better one to take 
 for those who want all that Madden NFL 2004 has to offer, including online play, but if the PC 
 version is your only alternative, then you certainly won't be disappointed.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: youtack
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  A football game that any football fan will want to play. The presentation in this game is the best 
 I have seen in any Madden game to this point. Commentary is realistic but could use some improvement. 
 Gameplay is fluent and is realistic. Now that you can challenge it sure can help you in game saving 
 situations. Ounce I was the Texans and playing the Falcons and I was on a game winning drive. Then 
 when they tackled me it was ruled a fumble and the Falcons got the ball. But the ball came down 
 after the play was dead and I challenged it and won. This is how important the challenge system 
 is and all games that do not have 100% right calls should have this feature. Dynasty mode is complete 
 but dose not have as much features as later Maddens do. The only thing that all maddens I have 
 played is a Playoffs mode. It seems that not one football game that I play has a playoffs mode. 
 Anyway the graphics are great and I that this game is certinly worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kc0lcs04
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 11, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  I've played Madden 2002 for a little while, and then I got Madden '04 as part of the World of EA 
 Sports package. And man is this game awesome! The graphics are FANTASTIC, and the sound is good 
 too, since Al Michaels is the play-by-play man now. Nothing against Pat Summeral, but he got KINDA 
 boring after awhile :)
  Anyway, this game is just simply AWESOME. I love everything about it, from the practice to the 
 mini-camp stuff. I've been playing this for a few weeks now, and it's simply amazing.
  I'm doing the Bengals as a franchise, and that's working pretty good. I like the mini-camp stuff 
 that helps boost your player's ratings.
  Also, I like the EA Trax thing. I've put in my own songs, of course, and it was really easy. Just 
 put your MP3 files in the music folder, and as Madden would say, Boom, you're there .
  A MUST for PC users. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raiders5000
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 3, 2006 1:04 am PT
Review:  I know what you're saying. WTH? Yep, it's the Madden 2k4 review in 2k6. Why?
  Well here it goes. I used to buy Madden every year for the console games. And I mean every year. The 
 games simply got better everytime out. I made the jump to computers because the college football 
 series was better on the CPU than the consoles at the time. With my love of computer technology, I 
 made the jump with Madden as well. NO MADDEN FOOTBALL GAME WAS PLAYABLE ON THE COMPUTER UNTIL 2K4!!!!! 
 This was the first game I enjoied playing more than TECMO BOWL. And that's saying alot, you ol' 
 skool gridiron junkies!!! The graphics are clean, the gameplay is smooth, easy to import/export custom 
 teams and the playability is endless. The reason why I'm writing this review now, is because I haven't 
 bought another Madden game since! 2K7 is coming soon, and it looks pretty nice, but I still dont 
 have my hopes up. Quite frankly, Madden 2K4 is the greatest computer football game ever made. And 
 although I haven't lost hope, it's gonna take something spectacular to knock this king off the hill. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrackpotGANJ
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 29, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  i dont know what ea is thinking. the year before they put a running back on the cover of the game 
 and in the game all you can do is run and run. This year they put micheal vick and quarter back 
 on the cover and all you can do is pass and pass. EA needs to put a solid game next year buy allowing 
 you to run and pass evenly throughout the game to make it more realistic. Granted i would rather 
 pass the entire game, but then the AI knows what your doing because you have to do the same plays 
 over and over because a lot of them don't work. Again on the plus side the graphics are getting 
 pretty good, but i dont think that i will ever buy another EA football game ever again at least 
 not for the PC maybe for the PS2. Don't worry about buying this game unless your a series fan or 
 a collector to have everyone possible because i don't really think that EA Sports ever puts out 
 an amazing football game. Oh and by the way i want to take John Madden by the throat and strangle 
 him because he is the wors announcer ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ds_Bloodlust
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 2, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  This was a pretty fun football game. Not much to say about it but here goes. The graphics were 
 really good. The controls were very good and my favorite out of all of my 3d sports games. The 
 music selection was nice and i enjoyed listening to the various songs. I liked the seasons and 
 the training you could go through. I thought that the game was worth buying and I like it better 
 than the newer maddons. If you are a fan of sports games you will think of this game as a classic. 
 I dont care for sports games and I still had fun with this game so that goes to show that this 
 game can have an influence outside of sports-game fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Random1992
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 9, 2005 11:32 am PT
Review:  If you love football, like I do, and your computer isn't the amazing 5billion GHZ processor and 
 a like 500tb graphics card, this is a good game to buy.
  
  Gameplay: Football, football, Football!
  
  Graphics: My computer can definately run this. But 
 it slows down, and the crowd is amazingly 2d.
  
  Sound: uhghh aah h huh uuhghhh ouughhh ahhaghahhuuh uhggh
  
  Value: Worth playing for the money, 
 I somehow got mine free, but you'll be on the computer playing it for hours at a time and now even 
 know it.
  
  Tilt: It's actually really really good despite the graphics. Go out and get yourself a copy at 
 EB Games and if you like by me, play Xbox360 at eb games as well! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exmortis
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 2, 2004 1:32 pm PT
Review:  I'm currently at work, so I have a great deal of time to write this review. Haha! Pay me for my 
 negligence, corporate overlords!
  
  Madden 2004 is quite simply an incredible gaming experience.
  
  Perhaps you're the same type 
 of football gamer as I -- you love the real thing, and you watch football almost every Sunday. 
 But up to this point, you've held off on buying a football game because you generally don't enjoy 
 sports games enough to warrant the purchase. Like me, you might have played one of the Madden, 
 Gameday, or ESPN football series games on a friend's console, and thought it was fun. Yet you think 
 it can't hold your attention against the slew of first person shooters and other great games your 
 superior PC-gaming platform has to offer.
  
  I am happy to tell you my friends... NOW IS THE TIME TO BUY! Madden2004 has made me a slobbering 
 addict, and I am wholly obsessed with the expansive amount of features and _quality_ game design 
 packed onto it's two CDs. I've been pleasantly surprised that my need to knee EA squarely in the 
 sack for the stupid decisions it constantly makes as a developer has been quelled for this release. 
 Somehow, someway, EA managed to build a spectacular game without mucking it up with an early buggy 
 release. Quality assurance was all over this one like Romanowski on a teammate.
  
  The much lauded Playmaker controls you've heard about are worthy of their praise in every way. 
 You now have a great deal of control over your players before and after the snap, for both offense 
 and defense. In the former, you can change running routes and receiver lanes, directing your halfback 
 or fullback around the tight end for a side-lane run or adjusting him to plow straight through 
 the gut. For the pass, your wide receivers can charge up into a go route for the long-bomb or cut 
 left and right for quick slants. Even better, the Playmaker feature can also be used on any audible, 
 giving you absolute control over your offensive formation to counter late-change defensive adjustments 
 prior to the snap. All of these controls can be neglected of course, and your team will still perform 
 as the play originally intended, but having this extra degree of fine-tuned control really makes 
 you feel like you're watching the real Peyton Manning down there, yelling out formation changes 
 and audibling like crazy. Madden2004 certainly has smash-mouth football, but it's also the first 
 version of the series to add a real cerebral touch to the game. The defensive side of the Playmaker 
 controls are just as great, allowing you to ram your down linemen selectively in either direction 
 to close running gaps. You can also bring your secondary upfield to stop the run if they get past 
 your linebackers, or brush them back to defend the long ball... all on the fly, as the play is 
 in action! This is especially nice during two minute drills, when the CPU tends to set up 4WR patterns 
 and frequently goes to throw deep. Because Madden accounts for both zone-coverage and man-on, combined 
 with the Playmaker feature you always feel like you've got a good handle on what your D is up to, 
 and if they screw up, you know that a good part of it is your fault instead of random number crunching.
 
  
  Madden2004 boasts an impressive amount of animations and player collision specifics. When a defender 
 brings his guy down, you don't see animations snapping into place or people teleporting into position 
 so that the animation can play correctly. If a man is hit from the side, it will look like it was 
 physically possible for that animation to have occured, instead of some canned, pre-programmed 
 dance. This really increases the believability of the hits, and frees the game to allow players 
 to tackle from any angle without compromising realism. Most importantly, players really seem to 
 have a tangible mass and velocity which causes opponents to get moved and shoved around realistically 
 on the field. For instance, try charging big man Ricky Williams of the Dolphins up through the 
 center and you'll witness a train-wreck of bodies as he stiffarms and shoulderblocks his way past 
 defenders, just like real. Try the same with quick Clinton Portis and you'll see that he's very 
 agile, but not so capable of moving Mr. Washington of the Pats (but then again, who is?) and is 
 forced to go around.
  
  Honestly, I actually have only two complaints. The first is the special teams. In my history of 
 playing, I have _never_, not once, seen a blocked punt or field goal. I've seen many _missed_ field 
 goals of course and many crappy punts, but none of them have been tipped by a defenders outstretched 
 hand. Defenders do a great job of swatting receipts downfield and deflecting passes at the line, 
 but they seem absolutely worthless in the punt-block/field-goal-block situation.
  
  My other complaint is the insane AI overdrive that kicks in during two-minute drills, before and 
 after the half. The game almost starts cheating when it has posession and there's two minutes left 
 on the clock, making incredible plays and running over awesome defenders with ease. You'll see 
 inane things like Larry Allen of the Dallas Cowboys, -- a punishingly good left guard -- get bowled 
 over by HB's like the Browns Jamel White, repeatedly. Not very believable.
  
  But these are such small things in a sea of great gaming. Buy Madden2004 now, it really IS that 
 good.
  
  P. S. Owner mode is great! I need to finally go get some work done around here though, or else I'd 
 write more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xljohn
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 31, 2003 4:57 pm PT
Review:  I can sum this game up in a two words. Absolutely Wonderful! Now onto the real review...
  
  I loved the new Owners Mode, though I did get a little angry when I went bankrupt with the Bucs, 
 my favorite team of all time. It seemed a little too easy to go down with your first team, and 
 too easy to stay afloat with your second.
  
  I gave Sound a 9 because, well I'll be frank. John Madden is far to repititive. EA Sports needs 
 to get him to say a few more things for the microphone next game. All the other announcers are 
 just great.
  
  Ill wrap it up with a few words to EA Sports... Keep up the good work... and bring back the TV 
 Angled Camera in Coach Mode! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XBRoughneck
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 21, 2003 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Hi guys.
  
  Best Madden ever? Yes... BUT,
  
  For a PC football title there are a couple of things that stand out in my mind that would have 
 to be addressed for this title to be considered great.
  
  Is the game deeper than it's ever been? Yes.
  Is playmaker control a nice addition? Yes. 
  
 Is owner mode nice? Yes.
  
  Ok, so what DIDN'T I like about Madden 2004 for PC?
  
  1) No force feedback support for gamepads
  2) Questionable CPU franchise AI for teams that are 
 controlled by the computer. I found this out at another site. Very often the game will either 1) retire 
 guys with fairly high overall ratings OR replace good starters with rookie picks.
  3) No Dirty uniforms (coming out in patch)
  4) No TV camera angle in "COACH" mode.
  5) When in 
 COACH mode, you CPU led QB doesn't get rid of the ball in a timely manner which results in games 
 where your QB will get sacked 20 times.
  
  Overall, this is the BEST Madden ever (I actually LOVE the menu interface) but it's very limited 
 for a PC football title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eric75
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2003 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Its clear EA Sports spent the offseason fine tuning their flagship title as Madden 2004 is as good 
 as ever. This year the biggest addition to the title is playmaker control. This new feature adds 
 a new on-the-fly dynamic to the gameplay as the gamer has more control over the action. You can 
 motion WRs to break off routes, call for offensive lineman to pick up blocks and even adjust the 
 routes and directions your play flows. Fortunately EA didnt go overboard with the feature as theyve 
 struck a nice balance on defense as well. Playmaker control lends itself to both the offense and 
 defense. 
  
  Aside from the new playmaker control EA has added some serious sim-like qualities with ownership 
 mode. Its really interesting and in depth to know that you can control everything to ticket prices 
 to what salary you'll offer your coaches. This budget is tied into what you can spend on free agents 
 etc. 
  
  Another great touch that few people have mentioned is the ability to substitute players on the 
 fly depending on the package you select. Although this was possible in the past you can now make 
 these adjustments from the playcalling screen on the fly. For instance you can move your best defensive 
 back from one side of the field to the other before selecting the play defensively. This adds a 
 strategic element to the game. 
  
  Its also worth noting that the preseason mode has been expanded. Now you have the ability to execute 
 certain drills in preseason mode to earn skill points that can be applied to certain players. This 
 comes in handy if you want to improve a certain players skill level. I thoroughly enjoyed working 
 with my QB to improve his accuracy rating! 
  
  Although the game is largely unchanged graphically EA has added some really nice animations. Players 
 now turn around and look for the ball while running a pass pattern. EA also added some gang tackling 
 animations that are really well done. The gameplay has also been tweaked. The deep out patterns 
 that seemed easy to complete last season are no sure thing. The computer seems to adjust much better. 
 Blitz are also far more effective than in years past. As the QB you must be on top of your game 
 if you plan on moving the ball. 
  
  Although on the surface the game may appear to be last years title with roster updates serious 
 football fans and gamers will notice a slew of new touches. In a way Im glad EA has tweaked the 
 game rather than offer something totally new. They touched on nearly everything on my wish list 
 and more. I feel confident in saying its clear EA hasnt rested on their laurels. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkullLeader00
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 15, 2003 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Its Madden Baby!!
  
  I have been playing the madden series since day one ... and always on the computer as well. This 
 year is no exception. Its great. But what is even more cool, is the fact that they have expanded 
 to a whole new population. Those who want to control more than just football. Owner mode is excellent! 
 And building your own team is even easier. From designing your own logo, to new colors and equipment, 
 Madden 2004 is a sure bet. I recommend this game to everyone. 
  There are still a little draw backs. For some reason, the game colors are dark. Even on high resolutions. 
 The graphics are great but the crowd still looks like cardboard, and there has been no improvement 
 on the sidelines, well so it seems.
  
  Apart from that, you won't be dissapointed to the new addition of Madden. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreyHairedGamer
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 14, 2003 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Ive been playing Madden since 1991 when the series began and Ive yet to be really disappointed 
 in a new release. 
  
  Madden 2004 in my opinion deliveries many cool new features such as PlayMaker and my favorite building 
 your own playbook. The graphics are excellent as usual and the sound is awesome. The screen for 
 selecting plays has improved. I did get annoyed with the instance replays when I was ready to call 
 the next play. This year the instance replay does play between plays with commentary but it does 
 so between the offensive and defensive select screens. The new Owner Mode is cool, although I havent 
 done much with it Im more into the game then the finances of football. 
  
  The bottom line for this game to me is simple, if you like the Madden series youll love it, if 
 you like football youll love it, if want fun football game to play yep youll love it!
  
  Fantastic addition to the Madden line of games.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
