-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Madden NFL 07
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/madden07/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Highlight stick and lead blocker controls are useful gameplay additions.
 Superstar mode is actually reasonably compelling this year.
 Rookie scouting in franchise is a nice touch.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 New kick meter found in the console versions is absent on PC.
 No major, game-changing upgrades to the package.
 Graphics and audio are practically untouched from last year.
 Superstar mode still has a number of holdover issues.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 25, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 8.0, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 579 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Tiburon
Genre: Football Sim
Date:     Aug 22, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
As good as Madden NFL 07 generally is, it's hard not to feel like it's time for the series on the 
 PC to evolve beyond its current vision. 

  In the last year or so, Madden has made the leap to next-generation consoles with two installments 
 on the Xbox 360. These latest titles, while lacking certain key features that Madden fans have 
 come to know and love over the years, have brought to the table vastly improved visuals and presentation. 
 So it's with mixed feelings that we find ourselves with Madden NFL 07 on the PC. For all intents 
 and purposes, this is practically the same game released last year on the PC, still using the old 
 Madden engine found on current-generation consoles, and even missing a couple of key updates from 
 the current-gen console versions of this year's game. Certainly, the updates it does include make 
 it a richer game of football than Madden NFL 06, but it's hard not to look at the game on PC as 
 something of an afterthought in the grand scheme of Madden's release calendar.  

          It's another year, and time once again for NFL football to come to your PC in Madden NFL 
 07.     

  Madden NFL 07 brings back practically every feature that was in Madden 06. On top of that, a number 
 of new gameplay upgrades have been brought to the table, the majority of which are available in 
 all versions of the game. By themselves, none of these individual changes or upgrades is particularly 
 game changing, but taken as a whole, they add a nice dimension of depth.  

  These features include the highlight stick and lead blocking controls. The highlight stick is a 
 new version of the truck stick used for runners on offense. Here, via a dual-analog USB controller, 
 you can use the right analog stick to pull off the sorts of crazy jukes and steps that star running 
 backs are so well known for, and on top of that, depending on the type of back you're playing, 
 you can opt to use more-powerful moves, or more finesse-based maneuvers. This feels like the natural 
 evolution of last year's truck stick, though most experienced Madden players will be able to get 
 by just as easily using the button-based moves rather than from liberal use of the stick. But if 
 you take the time to learn the stick and figure out how to use it and the button controls together, 
 you can be a very hard runner to stop.  

  The new lead blocking controls are likely to inspire some new tactics from all types of players. 
 Here, while on offense, you can opt to switch your controlled player to any of the available blockers 
 during a running play. This includes offensive linemen, tight ends, fullbacks, or whoever else 
 might be blocking on a play. When blocking, you can just do standard blocks, or you can get dirty 
 and do some mean-spirited cut blocks. This is an interesting mechanic, because it stops you from 
 having to rely on CPU blockers, which as any experienced player will tell you, are not always the 
 most reliable players on the field. You can also quickly switch back to control the running back 
 once you've laid down your block, which is good, because the CPU running back doesn't always manage 
 to find the holes you're creating. At first, you may find yourself unable to effectively use this 
 feature, as setting up the right blocks isn't always the most intuitive thing in the world. But 
 after some time, this control method gives the running game a really interesting new perspective, 
 and those who love finding new strategies are bound to eat this up.  

  One feature found in all the home-console versions of Madden 07 that's absent here is the new kick 
 meter. It's unfortunate; this new meter was probably one of the most accurate representations of 
 real kicking put into a football game to date. One would have to assume that this was axed from 
 the PC version as it effectively requires a dual-analog controller to line up both the power and 
 accuracy. Obviously, not everyone who plays Madden 07 on the PC is going to use a controller. Still, 
 some kind of toggle or option for those who have invested in a peripheral controller would have 
 been nice, since the new meter is markedly better than the old one.  

          Lead blocker controls sound kind of weird on paper, but really do add a nice new dimension 
 to the running game.     

  Beyond that, the changes from 06 to 07 are mostly ancillary, and fundamentally, the game plays 
 very much as its predecessor did. On defense, there are a few more available options in terms of 
 positioning your defensive players, and you can commit your defense in a certain direction the 
 moment the ball is snapped. On offense, the quarterback vision cone, which made its debut last 
 year, is still available, though it's not a required feature. You can just tap the right analog 
 stick after snapping the ball, and it will pop on, letting you use it for a little accuracy boost. 
 No, it's not any more fun to use than it was last year, but that's not altogether surprising. Otherwise, 
 pretty much every control feature you've come to expect from Madden is front and center once again. 

  Madden 07's feature lineup is almost identical to that of last year's game, with superstar, franchise, 
 and online modes headlining. Online play hasn't seen any sort of change to speak of, with head-to-head 
 play and the usual roster of EA Sports PC online features present, like clubs, tournaments, leaderboards, 
 and basic leagues. Online performance seemed a bit spotty in most of the matchups we played. Lag 
 got in the way on a frequent basis and forced us into some bad plays we probably wouldn't have 
 had to suffer through had the game been running smoother. Still, things tended to even out as games 
 went on -- but be aware that you may run into some unpleasantness here and there.     

  The franchise mode is also mostly untouched from last year, with all the usual bells and whistles, 
 such as the Tony Bruno radio show, newspaper headlines, minicamp games, owner mode, and the like. 
 The one new addition to the package involves rookie scouting. You now have the option to play through 
 the college all-star game and to run individual rookie prospects through combined workouts to gain 
 more statistical information about players prior to the draft. Getting more involved in rookie 
 scouting is always a plus, and both these features are a nice touch.  

          The new superstar mode inarguably benefits from the new role and influence system.     
 

  Superstar mode remains largely as it did last year, letting you create your own rookie player, 
 and letting you play every game specifically as that player for the length of a career. All the 
 secondary concerns, like interviews, endorsements, movie roles, and the like, are here again, and 
 they suffer from the same problems as last year, too. The same weird disconnects between what goes 
 on in an interview versus the actual scenario you're in tends to rear its head at times, and the 
 amount of menu-trudging you'll find yourself doing throughout the mode is rather tedious. However, 
 one big, new addition to the mode makes it a significantly more compelling experience than it was 
 last year. The goal for the superstar mode is to get your player into the Hall of Fame at the end 
 of his career. Throughout your superstar's career, a menu will depict how far along your player 
 is toward establishing his legacy as one of the best of all time. Apart from just throwing a lot 
 of touchdown passes while playing as a quarterback, intercepting a billion passes as a defensive 
 back, and so on and so forth, you also have to interact with your team and establish a personality. 
 You do this through various interviews, which give you specific answers that gear you toward a 
 team-minded player, or a Terrell Owens-like brat, as well as through a new influence system. Every 
 superstar has the ability to play certain roles on the field. These roles range from, say, a field 
 general for a quarterback or a possession receiver for a wide receiver to a rookie for -- you guessed 
 it -- a rookie, and so on.  

  These roles actually give you tangible bonuses and control over players on the field. A quarterback 
 using the field general role, for instance, can upgrade his passing accuracy rating as well as 
 the blocking ratings for his various offensive linemen. Another role he can take, the team leader, 
 lets him upgrade the awareness, injury, acceleration, and agility ratings for all the other offensive 
 players on the field. You gain these points by upping your influence rating. This rating goes up 
 or down based on what you do on the field. Make a huge completion for a first down, and you'll 
 get a nice bonus. Throw a lame interception that's returned for a touchdown, and it will drop through 
 the floor. It's a great, addictive system that actually makes you want to play through superstar 
 mode games rather than just simulate them. As annoying as some of the holdover problems from last 
 year's superstar mode still are, this year's mode is exponentially more fun to play with, thanks 
 almost exclusively to this feature.  

  Madden 07's graphics have not changed to any noticeable degree from last year's game, which probably 
 isn't surprising to anyone. Player models, stadiums, crowds, grass -- none of it has changed beyond 
 maybe a few new tackles and other on-field animations here and there. Again, not shocking, since 
 the focus seems to have been on developing for the 360 version of the game this year. But this 
 does beg the question as to why PC owners are still stuck playing the same version of Madden they 
 have for the last several years, when a visually superior version exists on a home-console system. 
 Plenty of 360 games have PC counterparts that look as good or better, so why shouldn't the PC versions 
 of Madden get the same treatment? With any luck, the move from the old Madden engine to the new 
 one won't be too far off in the future.  

          Graphically, Madden is still stuck in current generation console port mode.     

  Audio 
 also hasn't changed much at all. There's a new soundtrack filled to the brim with a mishmash of 
 popular rock and hip-hop, and just like every other year, it's a wildly varied mix that doesn't 
 really gel at all. Not to mention that some song choices, such as Spank Rock's "Backyard Betty," 
 seem a little seedy for an E for Everyone game, even with lyrical edits. Madden and Michaels are 
 still recycling a lot of the same commentary lines they have for the last couple of years, and 
 the on-field effects still sound entirely decent.  

  Though PC owners aren't likely to be thrilled at the small number of changes they're getting with 
 this year's Madden, compared with practically all the home-console versions, there's still enough 
 new and different about Madden 07 to make it worthwhile. Features like the new running and blocking 
 controls, as well as the improved superstar mode, are enough to keep the experience reasonably 
 fresh. Still, if you own any of the home-console systems that Madden appears on this year, the 
 PC version probably shouldn't be your first choice.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (39 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: scarface46
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 9
  Value: 9
  Tilt: 8
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Madden NFL 07 is a beautifully created football sim. It has amazing and a very challenging gameplay. 
 Not like the other Maddens were you can just throw the ball and then 8 out 10 chances you'll be 
 catching it. In 07 you have to radar the screen as fast as possible before you getting knocked 
 the he11 out. Also, other than the exhibition mode, Madden's Superstar mode is tons of fun. You 
 start off superstar mode by first creating you characters genes by choosing your mother and father. 
 Then, you choose your name, weight, appearance, and etc. After that, you go to your apartment, practice 
 plays, take tests, appear in interviews, and get ready for the NFL Draft. Once you become a Pro 
 NFL athlete, you have to earn respect, increase your skills, and increase your reputation so you 
 can become a NFL Hall of Famer. Other than playing, Madden 07 delivers many creating features. 
 You can create your own team, choosing your team logo from tons of choices. Creating a player is 
 not so complex but it gets the job done. Now you can even create a fan for your desired team which 
 isn't so big but can be kind of fun. Furthermore, from the athletes to the stadium, the graphics 
 are the best they ever were for a Madden or any other football game. The sound is superb, with 
 great commentary, it will feel like your watching a real NFL game. Overall, Madden NFL 2007 is 
 a amazing addition to the series. With great new features, such as the new mouse controls that 
 makes you control your player way better than if you were using only a keyboard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoJo10
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Madden on the PC has not evolved at all during the last few years. I remember the last Madden I 
 played at all was Madden 2003 on the computer.
  
  The gameplay is solid. There are no glaring bugs in the game, and the game plays the way it is 
 supposed to. But it feels really bland. The game modes have nothing interesting about them. The 
 dynasty mode seems very stark. It just isn't that compelling.
  
  The graphics are still from the PS2, which is somewhat upsetting, because theoretically, computers 
 are much stronger than consoles, and we aren't seeing those graphics. EA just wants to make sure 
 they can get their sales by keeping the requirements of the game low, and as a result, the gameplay 
 is left in next-gen.
  
  If you have a previous version of the game, and don't care about roster updates, don't get this 
 game or Madden 08. The new features aren't there. The gameplay is exactly the same as well as the 
 graphics.
  
  Wait until EA starts porting from the console, which should be anywhere from three to six years 
 from now probably. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krypto_USA
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 15, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  I agree with many reviews, that EA has milked this current game long enough. I've been playing 
 it since the 04 version, and the engine, layout and game play has been essentially the same with 
 a few bells and whistles added.
  
  Personally, I'd like to see a much improved franchise mode. It's the strategy part of this game 
 that I believe will keep people hooked for a long time.
  
  How about the ability to make 3 or 4 way trades? Or how about being able to buy other franchises 
 once you pile up enough cash? What about drafting from the European league?
  
  How about more media coverage of your franchise and the signings/trades/performance of your team? 
 For instance, it would be cool to hear Chris Berman talk about your team building expertise. Or 
 coverage of your dynasty after winning a couple Super Bowls. If EA really used their imagination, 
 they could build a highly addictive game within the franchise mode but alas, I think they are going 
 to continue to focus on improving the gameday experience in XBox 360 instead. If you ask me, I 
 think they will eventually kill this game if they continue on that track. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: subtec
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 7, 2007 7:29 am PT
Review:  Decent game. Of course it is, just like Madden 06, 05, 04, 03, etc.
  
  But Holy Incremental Changes, Batman!
  
  Um, let's see... there's the new lead blocker control. 
 Wow! I was just telling a friend of mine last year how all Madden really needed to be the perfect 
 football game was the ability to control the blocking.
  
  Hello? Blocking? Are we running out of ideas, EA Sports? How about next year we give players full 
 control over the water boy? Or cheerleader formations? Now THAT would be sweet.
  
  No, instead what I'd like to see would be about 100% more voice content, because after a few hours 
 of playing, I've heard everything John &amp; Al are ever going to say. It really kills replay.
 
  
  And while we're at it, um... could we maybe.... I dunno... actually UPDATE the graphics? No, I'm not 
 talking about making the helmets more shiny. I mean an actual graphics overhaul to bring this game 
 into at least 2005.
  
  Without a doubt, EA Sports has placed the Madden franchise on autopilot, and they're content to 
 just mail it in year after year. There isn't anything new about this game. But that's okay - there 
 wasn't anything new last year either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_zone
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 27, 2007 5:43 am PT
Review:  Madden has always been one of the hottest franchise of EA Sports products... And this year.. it still 
 remains as one of the good animations and gameplay for the NFL franchise...
  
  Despite the same gameplay.. in this year's madden release.. EA has came up with something new.. and 
 that is the Lead Blocker Control.. After you have choose your plays.. u can switch player to control 
 one of the lead blockers, and instantly when the play starts.. the camera will turn to a third person 
 view.. focusing on your lead blocker that you've chose.. and you will try to block your opponents 
 that is tryin to sack your QB. and after that u can take control of your QB to score a touchdown, or 
 make a long pass for your receivers.. This a neat feature.. but sometimes.. the neat can become untidy..
 
  For example.. the camera focusing on your lead blocker is a neat feature.. but to control your lead 
 blocker in that view.. is actually quite tough.. it's something you need to practice for quite sometime..
 
  
  In this year madden 07.. you can turn off the precision passing.. it's easier if you off it.. but 
 it's more challenging if you play with it.. The graphics are updated in the PC version.. u can see 
 the field is quite detail compared to the current gen consoles.. and the xbox 360 controller works 
 well in the PC too... the only missing thing is the kicking metre where u cant use the analog sticks 
 for kicking compared to the consoles version.. which actually doesnt really brings the whole game 
 down...
  
  In madden 07.. u can play the superstar mode.. create your own superstar.. choose your parents and 
 then it will make you to have your position.. but too bad.. that u can't choose your position that 
 you prefer from the start.. it's premade.. so if ur parents makes you up to be a wide receiver but 
 instead you want a role in QB.. you need to change your parents again and again until you get your 
 QB position.. it's nice to play in a superstar mode.. but to tell you honestly.. it brings down the 
 fun of the game.. it's quite frustrating to get the influence points.. so i just ignore it and play 
 the normal season.
  
  But after some time of playing it.. it will get repetitive.. u will feel that is actually madden 
 06 with just some touch ups here and there.. well what can i say bout EA... no competition means 
 no change in motion 
  
  The commentary aren't as good as the 360 version.. it's still lame like the past years.. and again 
 i refrain.. EA hasn't scored a single touchdown in the gameplay and animations..
  
  Only few features like the analog stick, where u can do your jukes and moves using it.. and u can 
 hit on oncoming tackles using the analog stick..
  also EA has implemented using mouse this time but it doesnt works quite well..
  
  So if you 
 had a 360.. you should get the 360 version... if u don't, then u should get it for the PC besides 
 PS2 and Xbox.. coz it's the nicest.. good patches are available and a nice control with analog sticks...
 
  Just remember.. if you're a true NFL fan.. you should get it and you will enjoy this game.. but if 
 you're playing it for fun.. then you should buy Madden 06 or if you've already have it.. then ignore 
 this year's version.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgamer159
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 26, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  your just paying 40$ for a few new things most of which are just upgrades of last years. the highlight 
 stick is just a fancy version of the truck stick
  
  the leadblocker control is useful but takes some time to perfect
  
  the new superstar mode 
 is a nice touch but its just last years with a few new bells and whistles
  
  the graphics didnt improve much at all
  
  the sound hasnt changed only that you can hear the 
 players yelling and shouting which is pretty cool overall your just paying 40$ for a fancy truck 
 stick, leadblocker, deeper superstar mode, shaun alexander on the cover and the 06 changed to the 
 07 even though im a big fan of madden i just dont see y EA puts all the better stuff on the consoles. 
 like the cool dives and the madden cards AND the graphics PC can handle the graphics but EA doesnt 
 think so! if EA can just make all the versions allike maybe it will be better overall (again) its 
 a good game to have just to play it ; i like the game and dont mind playing it for an hour or 2 
 its just fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limbodrive
Rating: 5.2
Date: May 9, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  The music here is decent. The graphics are supurb. The sound options are excellent. The game modes 
 are way cool. I love playing match-ups prior to the teams showing on t. v. I am jealous of the marketing 
 strategy of this thing. You pay over $40 at first release, but can buy the thing for $10 at the 
 end of the season. My first two games, I bought cheap this way and after I fell in love, I then 
 bought them immediately upon release. This one woke me up to DVD. Now everyone should have a DVD 
 drive on their computer. I wish someone would explain starting a new/fictional franchise better. 
 Do I need to buy the supplement manual? It is great to switch between Franchise or Hall of Fame 
 modes, then if you are good, go to online competition. For a game of football, this has never gotten 
 boring when a new edition comes out. The game can play fairly simply, but if you want to be competative, 
 you must learn all the moves which can be a serious challenge. After all this said, this was the 
 worst season, in my experience, playing the game. As mentioned, the DVD-ROM was the standard. You 
 can download the game, but I pre-ordered and didn't have the drive, not being aware of the change. 
 I fixed that, then there was the Vista upgrade. I jumped on that too. The updates are only for 
 the previous OS. I have to wait until next season to play a game without any serious bugs. (Mine 
 freezes on the punt/kick sections of the game.) Life goes on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viper_con
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 2, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Okay,
  
  Is it me, or does Madden 07 for the PC look a lot like NFL Fever 2000 for the PC?
  
  I mean 
 besides a few stadium, and menu options, the feel is pretty much the same. Is the xBox 360 that 
 much different than a high end PC? I am shying away from the xBox mainly due to the god awful controller 
 setup. What is it, like 18 buttons to do 5 things, or something like that? jk
  
  Besides the extensive cost and bulky controller, I have yet to convince myself to purchase an xBox 
 360 console in order to give these games an even chance on gameplay physics, and dynamics.
  
  I hope I'm not the only one who sees things this way. Maybe being a graphic designer makes 
 me a bit more critical of high end video games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hockey15LSW
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 3, 2007 1:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. This was my first time getting Madden. This game has awesome camera views, mini-games, game 
 modes, and you can even create your own fan! After you install it, it asks you who your favorite team 
 is. Mine of course, is the FALCONS. Whoo!! Anyway the team you put they have a special background for 
 that team. Its the 'flippin bomb. Now onto the bad things. There are lots of controls to remember, and 
 I mean alot. Kicking is hard at first. When you fake handoff it takes alot of time so a defender 
 might have sacked you by then. Bottom line: Madden is awesome. Some of you might not agree because 
 this was my first year with Madden. GO ATLANTA FALCONS!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmymann
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 2, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Madden... man. there is not much new here, but the core is near perfect. the load times are the 
 same for drills as for games, which makes no sense, and the keybord is a POS to use to play with, 
 but it works better than anything else. The best new addition is player roles. finnally, having 
 Jerry Rice on your team boosts other WR's awareness. this comes the year after he retires of course. 
 other than that, this is the Madden you know and love. It will run on a low end computer, and it 
 looks great on a high end one. Madden lives. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miraj5
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 16, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Ok Madden nfl 2007 is a GOOD game. I don't really see many changes in it from last year. Few of 
 the Changes, It looks better then 06, The new superstar mode is OK. First you can't call your plays, 
 you have to play witht he play the CPU calls. This is really hard when its 3rd down and despretly 
 need to pick up a 1st down. Also, you would thik with the new camera angels the game would be fun 
 to play, but it really isn't. Franchise mode is a little bit better then last year. The new player 
 role is great. It actually boost players rating in some situation and even boosts teammates ratings 
 if you have the right player role. This feature is great, also the NFL Draft is changed from top 
 to bottom. you can now pick 8 players from the draft class to test them out . You can take them 
 into a drill and see how they do. If you do good, you unlock some info about the player. Drills 
 are based on Mini-Camp mode, there are some extra drills, Rout Running, Pass Rusher, Protect QB, 
 40yard dash, and few more. i think the franchise mode is the best mode to play in Madden 07.
  
  The new highlight stick is Great. It upgrades from last years Truck Stick, now you can use 
 smaller backs and juke the big defensive players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jim1029
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 28, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  I think this is a very good edition of Madden NFL. Many features have been upgraded, like the Superstar 
 mode and franchise mode. Franchise mode seems more thorough with a much improved off-season and 
 player ranking. The game has slightly different animation then previous titles (passes more affected 
 by wind, kicks swerve a little depending on where you stop it, etc.) , so it may be a little harder 
 to adjust to this then before.
  
  I only have one major problem with this game. The so-called biggest upgrade of Superstar mode, 
 the camera always stays on your player, is not good. You can't see the other players on the field, 
 obviously making it harder to avoid that tackle. And no matter what buttons you press, the controls 
 are always on the superstar. (Note: I haven't done Superstar too much, so this may not be accurate. 
 However, you cannot take the camera off the superstar.) Overall, Superstar mode is improved. But 
 the only reason it isn't my favorite part of the game is that.
  
  But this game is still very good. Two thumbs up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacenwon
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 11, 2006 2:27 am PT
Review:  Ok ok, so check this out... i first copped this game for the Xbox 360, RIGHT when the 360 hit the 
 stores. I have to be honest... I HATED THE DANG GAME!!! And me and Madden go WAAAAY back... 94' 
 i believe :)
  
  but yeah, there was NO superstar mode, and the gameplay was so jacked up, i couldn't bare to play 
 it another minute.
  
  Then they dropped it for the PC. SO MUCH BETTER!!! they brought back the superstar mode, and the 
 gameplay is just so much better. if you're a football fan, then you need this game for your PC. 
 sick sick SICK! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnzoLake
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Introducci&oacute; n
  
  Madden NFL no s&oacute; lo es el juego estandarte de EA Sports, tambi&eacute; n es el juego franquicia 
 de Electronic Arts y un &eacute; xito seguro de ventas todos los a&ntilde; os. Desde el 2006, es 
 el &uacute; nico juego oficial del deporte que es casi una religi&oacute; n en Estados Unidos, el 
 f&uacute; tbol americano.
  
  Todo esto puede hacer pensar que EA Sports apenas mejora el juego cada a&ntilde; o y se limita a 
 sacar una versi&oacute; n id&eacute; ntica a la anterior con las plantillas actualizadas. Nada m&aacute; s 
 lejos de la realidad, Madden NFL mejora cada a&ntilde; o y consigue cumplir las expectativas de 
 un p&uacute; blico exigente.
  
  Si el a&ntilde; o pasado era el del quarterback, este a&ntilde; o mantiene las mejoras en el juego 
 a&eacute; reo y pasa al terrestre, con el &amp;#8220; lead blocker control&amp;#8221; como principal 
 mejora entre otras que comentaremos m&aacute; s adelante.
  
  Los modos de juego poco han cambiado, los dos principales son el &amp;#8220; Modo Franquicia y el 
 &amp;#8220; NFL Superstar Hall of Fame&amp;#8221;. El primero poco ha cambiado, pero el segundo 
 ha pasado a profundizar m&aacute; s en la influencia que nuestro jugador tiene en el terreno de 
 juego y nos marca un objetivo principal: entrar en el Sal&oacute; n de la Fama.
  
  Para finalizar con la introducci&oacute; n hay que decir que el apartado visual y sonoro mantiene 
 la calidad de todos los a&ntilde; os, aunque puede llamar la atenci&oacute; n el hecho de que sigue 
 sin haber un salto en la versi&oacute; n de PC que la coloque con un nivel gr&aacute; fico parecido 
 al de la next-gen.
  
  Gr&aacute; ficos
  
  Sabiendo de salida el hecho de que los gr&aacute; ficos de la versi&oacute; n de PC est&aacute; n 
 mucho m&aacute; s cerca de una Xbox que de una 360, hay que decir que son bastante buenos y no necesitan 
 un ordenador potente para ir fluidos.
  
  Los men&uacute; s poco han cambiado con respecto al a&ntilde; o anterior, siguen siendo muy intuitivos 
 y como fondo ir&aacute; n pasando fotos de las grandes estrellas de la NFL. Ahora pasamos a comentar 
 el nivel gr&aacute; fico en los partidos.
  
  Alguien que conoce bien la NFL y sus jugadores puede reconocer a la mayor&iacute; a de los jugadores 
 sobre el terreno de juego, bien por la cara (a pesar de los voluminosos cascos) , bien por la complexi&oacute; n 
 f&iacute; sica. El nivel gr&aacute; fico del resto de personas sobre el terreno de juego ha mejorado 
 mucho con respecto a la anterior versi&oacute; n, ahora los &aacute; rbitros y entrenadores tienen 
 un detallo cercano al de los jugadores.
  
  El detalle del estadio ha mejorado levemente en general. Por ejemplo, el c&eacute; sped es m&aacute; s 
 realista y podemos apreciar las diferencias entre la hierba de los 32 estadios que componen la 
 NFL. Hablando de los estadios, &eacute; stos est&aacute; n representados con el m&aacute; ximo detalle 
 posible, incluso podemos apreciar algunas pancartas de los aficionados que ya son m&iacute; ticas.
 
  
  Precisamente los aficionados tienen un papel importante en Madden. Cuando hagamos alg&uacute; n 
 touchdown milagroso o nos est&eacute; n dando una paliza, los pintorescos fan&aacute; ticos de la 
 primera fila ser&aacute; n enfocados y podremos ver sus reacciones. Incluso tenemos un creador de 
 aficionados, en los que podemos personalizar desde a un aficionado vestido de vikingo hasta otro 
 con la barriga pintada saludando a la madre y un perrito caliente en la mano.
  
  Una de las cosas que m&aacute; s nos hace una idea de lo duro que es un partido de f&uacute; tbol 
 americano son las condiciones clim&aacute; ticas. No es lo mismo jugar un partido al final de la 
 temporada que en pleno invierno. Por ejemplo, si hace mucho fr&iacute; o lo notaremos en el aire 
 que respiran los jugadores, y si hay mucho viento nos resultar&aacute; casi imposible chutar un 
 field goal.
  
  Las animaciones poco han cambiado, aunque siguen siendo muy realistas y para nada rob&oacute; ticas. 
 Encontramos algunas nuevas por ejemplo al hacer un tacleo o un bloqueo, o en las celebraciones.
 
  
  En definitiva, el motor gr&aacute; fico de PC de Madden NFL est&aacute; empezando a quedarse anticuado 
 (como pasa en casi todos los juegos para PC de EA Sports) , aunque sigue pintando bastante bien 
 y la principal ventaja es que no requiere un ordenador potente y se acerca al gran p&uacute; blico. 
 De todas formas, esperamos que con el 08 llegue el gran cambio y la edici&oacute; n de PC se coloque 
 junto a las de 360 y PS3.
  
  Sonido
  
  Anteriormente dec&iacute; amos que Madden NFL es el juego franquicia de Electronic Arts. Esto se 
 nota por ejemplo en la banda sonora: EA Sports reserva casi todas las mejores canciones para este 
 t&iacute; tulo. La banda sonora consta de 30 canciones principalmente rock, pop y hip-hop.
  
  Los comentarios, como siempre, corren a cargo de dos expertos como Madden y Michaels. Hay que 
 decir que los comentarios en ingl&eacute; s tambi&eacute; n llegar&aacute; n a Espa&ntilde; a, ya que 
 este juego nunca llega traducido a nuestro pa&iacute; s.
  
  Los efectos sonoros son de gran calidad. Desde la m&uacute; sica al llegar al descanso (que nos 
 hace pensar que estamos viviendo una retransmisi&oacute; n televisiva) , hasta los gritos del quarterback 
 al marcar jugada o los choques de dos trenes en una fuerte entrada.
  
  Jugabilidad
  
  Ya lo hemos comentado, las principales mejoras de la edici&oacute; n del 2007 se encuentran en el 
 juego a ras de suelo. Las dos principales son el &amp;#8220; Highlight stick&amp;#8221; y el &amp;#8220; lead 
 blocking control&amp;#8221;. La primera es una nueva versi&oacute; n del &amp;#8220; truck stick&amp;#8221; 
 usado por los corredores en el juego ofensivo y que nos permitir&aacute; realizar movimientos imposibles 
 para esquivar a nuestros defensas. Podemos elegir si queremos basar nuestros movimientos en la 
 habilidad o en la fuerza. Para disfrutar de esta mejora jugable hay que contar con un gamepad USB 
 que cuente con dos sticks anal&oacute; gicos.
  
  Con el &amp;#8220; lead blocking control&amp;#8221; podemos tomar el control de cualquier jugador 
 en el ataque y realizar bloqueos o pancakes personalmente para dejar v&iacute; a libre al corredor. 
 Estas dos nuevas caracter&iacute; sticas son bastante complicadas, hay que practicar bastante con 
 ellas, pero desde luego vale la pena aprender a utilizarlas.
  
  Pero no todo son alegr&iacute; as. Sin ir m&aacute; s lejos, una nueva mejora muy aplaudida por los 
 fans en las versiones consoleras no se encuentra en la versi&oacute; n de PC, hablamos del nuevo 
 &amp;#8220; kick meter&amp;#8221;. Desde luego, es una pena porque representaba muy bien la forma 
 de chutar en el f&uacute; tbol americano. Probablemente la raz&oacute; n sea que es indispensable 
 un gamepad con dos sticks anal&oacute; gicos, y no todo el mundo dispone de uno.
  
  Por lo dem&aacute; s, la jugabilidad sigue casi intacta. Al menos no le han quitado las mejoras 
 de otros a&ntilde; os, cosa que EA Sports hace a veces con otros juegos como NBA Live.
  
  Ahora toca repasar los modos de juego. Los dos principales, adem&aacute; s del partido r&aacute; pido, 
 son el &amp;#8220; modo Franquicia&amp;#8221; y el &amp;#8220; NFL Superstar Hall of Fame&amp;#8221;. 
 El primero es pr&aacute; cticamente el mismo del a&ntilde; o anterior, con todo lo que eso conlleva. 
 Desde los peri&oacute; dicos locales hasta los emails que nos llegan cada d&iacute; a, pasando por 
 la posibilidad de llevar a nuestro equipo a otra ciudad al finalizar la temporada. Es un ejemplo 
 a seguir para casi todos los juegos deportivos, ya que es uno de los que m&aacute; s se asemeja 
 a la organizaci&oacute; n de las grandes ligas americanas.
  
  El &amp;#8220; NFL Superstar Hall of Fame&amp;#8221; nos permite crear a un jugador, pasar una serie 
 de pruebas, entrevistas y tests de inteligencia, presentarnos al Draft y empezar nuestra carrera 
 en la National Football League. Con respecto a la edici&oacute; n del a&ntilde; o anterior, hay que 
 decir que esta vez cuando nuestro jugador est&eacute; en el campo solo podremos tomar su control, 
 y no el de todo el equipo.
  
  La otra gran mejora consiste en que se profundiza mucho m&aacute; s en la influencia de nuestro 
 jugador en el terreno de juego. No es lo mismo ser un rookie que un pro-bowl. Seg&uacute; n nuestras 
 actuaciones, nos iremos ganando &amp;#8220; motes&amp;#8221; que podremos usar en el partido para 
 influir en nuestros compa&ntilde; eros y los rivales. Por ejemplo, si eres un receptor con el apelativo 
 de &amp;#8220; burner&amp;#8221;, mejorar&aacute; s el nivel de pase de tu quarterback y bajar&aacute; s 
 el nivel de tu defensor rival.
  
  Otra novedad es que se te propondr&aacute; n una serie de objetivos a medio o largo plazo seg&uacute; n 
 tu posici&oacute; n que deber&aacute; s cumplir para conseguir el gran objetivo: pertenecer al Sal&oacute; n 
 de la Fama.
  
  Diversi&oacute; n
  
  El juego est&aacute; pensado para los amantes del f&uacute; tbol americano, a los que les gusta 
 poder controlar absolutamente todos los aspectos en el campo, desde que se tira la moneda para 
 sortear los campos. Cuando m&aacute; s se disfruta de este juego es cuando uno dise&ntilde; a y elige 
 sus propias t&aacute; cticas, cuando elige las alineaciones en funci&oacute; n del otro equipo para 
 intentar parar a la estrella rival.
  
  Desde luego, si uno no sigue de cerca el mundo de la NFL, el juego puede llegar a resultar aburrido 
 e incluso frustrante. Es recomendable aprenderse primero las reglas de este deporte, y despu&eacute; s 
 ir jugando partidos para irse familiarizando con &eacute; l.
  
  La duraci&oacute; n y la diversi&oacute; n que puede proporcionar es casi infinita. Ya solo con el 
 modo Franquicia y Superstar tenemos juego para varios meses. Adem&aacute; s, siempre podemos descargar 
 plantillas o add-ons de Internet para tener nuestro juego a la &uacute; ltima.
  
  Conclusi&oacute; n
  
  Dejando de lado el hecho de que es necesario un salto gr&aacute; fico en 
 la versi&oacute; n de PC, Madden NFL sigue siendo un gran juego de f&uacute; tbol americano y hace 
 las delicias de los aficionados de este deporte. Las principales mejoras de otros a&ntilde; os siguen 
 intactas y las nuevas de este a&ntilde; o hacen que siga siendo una gran experiencia jugable.
  
  A favor y en contra
  
  A favor:
  - La inclusi&oacute; n del &amp;#8220; highlight stick&amp;#8221; 
 y el &amp;#8220; lead blocking control&amp;#8221;
  - El enfoque del modo Superstar
  - El modo franquicia
  - El gran nivel sonoro
  
  En contra:
  - Que no se produzca el salto 
 gr&aacute; fico en PC
  - La no inclusi&oacute; n del nuevo &amp;#8220; kick meter&amp;#8221;
  - Que nunca llegue traducido a nuestro pa&iacute; s 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigSuz77
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 22, 2006 4:46 am PT
Review:  WOw this is prob the best gameplayt in madden ever. Better that the 359 version defi. I am waiting 
 for the 2008 draft class from football freaks to coun my fracnshise which is pretty good in this 
 one. The game moves great and its beautiful on my lab top. i was very suprised, But buy it , it 
 will satisfy ur football craving for now. iT beats the 360 version beacause it feels more complete 
 and it looks much more fluid, ao my word to you ARE get this game if you have a good cpu it wont 
 disapoint, oh brady quinn is qb my lions franshise and troy smith went to the browns and the season 
 is heating up. let me go back to my season please.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Staryoshi87
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 19, 2006 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Well, if you've played the last few editions of Madden, be prepared for a whole new world of..... more 
 of the same =P Outside of superstar mode and slightly more intuitive controls (love the break tackles 
 and their animations) , there aren't any gameplay or graphical improvements in the game, to speak 
 of. Lack of next gen graphics seem like a cheap attempt to reach the low-end pc audience, while 
 neglecting those of us who have decent computers. The game can be maxed out on 1280x1024 with an 
 x800 video card, with 50+ fps. It looks decent, but the lack of next-gen is pretty disappointing. 
 The fields do look quite nice, but they don't degrade like the next-gen versions. The 40 dollar 
 price tag helps, too, and on the whole, if you don't already own madden 06 for the PC, you can 
 expect a somewhat new and mostly enjoyable experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: happy2012
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 16, 2006 7:44 am PT
Review:  I don't see how you can put out a game every year and think you can use the same old graphics and 
 audio from last year. I hate how people just eat this up and say its great. I mean EA ran out 
 all other companies from making NFL games and they put out crap. Its insane how it got the ratings 
 that it did. You have to look at the fact that there isn't any other company making NFL games and 
 you have nothing to compare it to. If you aren't going to try to make a good game for the PC, dont 
 make one at all!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dlsc3120
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 6, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  The 7.8 Gamespot gave this game is just plain wrong. If you are a football fan or player there 
 is no other game better, because it is the only title WORTHY of having the exclusive NFL license! 
 Great play, superstar mode 100% better, franchise fantastic, and the best online gaming there is... period. 
 Hey gamespot how about let the folks that play or like football judge the game. Now the graphics 
 and sound are the same as last years because.... they were awesome last year too! The superstar 
 mode lets you roleplay, like if you are the quarterback they are calling the play into you, awesome! 
 Of course you can audible out of the play. But when the D is on the field you can change the game 
 to CPU and it is like watching from the sideline. To me that is just too kewl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: breaze56
Rating: 5.1
Date: Sep 14, 2006 12:50 am PT
Review:  i was very dissapointed by this years madden, its the same game as 06, except for the field looks 
 a lil better, and the new rosters, but other than that, nothin has changed. i played 07 at the 
 local best buy the other week on the 360 they had set up there, they totally made the 360 version 
 better than the PC, presentation and they way the players act and move, plus the grapics were far 
 better than the PC. my question is WHY? and i know all the kiddys will start cryin here by me sayin 
 this, YES the 360 is good, YES it is worth the 400 bucks 2 get one, but the PC is better, its always 
 gona be better. The 360 cant be upgraded in anyway shape or form, the hardware is stationary, meaning 
 ur stuck with it till the make another xbox, the PC can be upgraded and can run everygame better 
 than the 360 ever will. im tried of seeing game developers tryin 2 faze out the pc, everywhere 
 u go places carry less and less pc game... with the exception of bestbuy. so i will nolonger buy 
 anything with madden in the title until they overhaul the grapics on the pc, its just stupid how 
 companys are doin the pc this way, but wait till the PC gets kickass games that the 360 cant even 
 run or even get, then well see just how bad the PC is. were already gettin next gen games on the 
 PC, company of heros, F. E. A. R, etc. and guess who cant even get those games yet... u guess it... the 
 360! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViperCPT
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 11, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  Well what can I say... EA Sports brings another better and improved game to our PC Screens. Since 
 started playing NFL from EA's 2003 edition I kept looking out for the next release because it kept 
 you in your seat playing. This game just brings a strategic gameplay to it which I like in a sports 
 game. It just aint pressing a button and almost always works out. You need to plan your way to 
 be on the winning side...
  
  Oops... Need to get back to my game if I want to win before the new version is out on the serves. 
 LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Edwincnelson
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 9, 2006 9:07 pm PT
Review:  A slightly tweaked but much improved version over Madden 2006. It is clear that many of the issues 
 with Superstar mode have been addressed and the character progression is much improved. However, 
 beyond that and a little graphics facelift this is just 2006 again. Why are they holding back all 
 of the improvements that the 360 has available? So, if you are looking for a totally revamped game 
 keep looking. But if you are looking for a cleaner, smother, better looking version of Madden this 
 will not disappoint. Now the decision is if Madden 2006 is worth what they are charging for it. 
 At 49.95 it is a tough sell. Can you wait until half way through the season and pick it up at half 
 that price? If you can I would call this a no brainer.
  
  Really, can you imagine a whole football season without Madden? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS2player9X99
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 4, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  The Pros- they have added the highlight stick which is basicly a truck stick when you are a strong 
 power back or you have ankle breaking moves when you are a fast back, The have a improved the rookie 
 scouting alot this year. The SuperStar mode is really the most imporoved thing this year. In SS 
 mode you just play your charecter! if you are on the offense you just control you unless you are 
 taken out who play like a regular game. If you are deffense it is the same thing as offense The 
 Cons- No major, game-changing upgrades to the package; graphics and audio are practically untouched 
 from last year; superstar mode still has a number of holdover issues (i didnt write the cons GS 
 did i agree 100% with them!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFDmh2223
Rating: 5.7
Date: Sep 4, 2006 5:54 am PT
Review:  It's the same game with a new roster. It really is sad this is the only option for we have for 
 an officially licensed NFL game. Every year they do this and for some reason people buy it. I think 
 it's more about loving the game of football rather than loving madden. At this point it is our 
 only option for an officially licensed NFL game. Sad really. I wish next year they would just give 
 us a roster update to download so I don't waste my gas driving to the store. For PC its not worth 
 it. It looks much better on 360 and ps3. perhaps they have a better product. Also a point of complaint 
 as a PC owner. I think PC game makers need to come up with a standard each year that every game 
 will be built to, sort of a constant consistant raising of the bar. A Universal Minimum spec that 
 is set each year and all game must be built to this spec. and every year it increases. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calibanvov
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 2, 2006 11:26 am PT
Review:  Rather then talking about it, I'll just give you the quick hits.
  
  Graphics look the same as last game. Not too bad, but starting to need an upgrade. The graphics 
 of the crowds still are poor. The sidelines have camaramen etc. and are still done poorly. The 
 models of the players are good.
  
  Sound is identical to last years game.
  
  Bugs I've encountered. Punt to the other team and you get the ball. Game completly froze on my 
 2 or 3 times. Game during loading times, constantly and frustratigly minimizes. They took out the 
 arrow key options which drives me nuts. Instead of being able to scroll through pages and stuff, 
 by clickin on the arrow key like in last game, they took it out. So now you have to click on the 
 drop down window to select. That aspect is very uncool.
  
  The gameplay is very good, you feel in control. You can write your own plays and become a blocker. 
 The jukes and spins are done nicely. Franchise mode seems the same, only you can watch a college 
 allstar game, which isnt very interesting. The draft is a tiny bit improved, because teams will 
 offer to trade up for 2 of your picks. But still needs some tune ups. Figuring out how good a rookie 
 is going to be is still a bit difficult, but they made the rookies a little better which was needed.
 
  
  Havnt played enough of superstar mode yet. Looks too be pretty much the same, tiny improvements 
 or added features, but also has added problems. like training your start is in All-pro mode only, 
 so you might not improve him with training.
  
  Overall I say get the game. I like it and enjoy it. Dont put your expectations very high though, 
 you will be dissapointed if you do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: werewolf79
Rating: 2.8
Date: Sep 1, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  This is the EXACT same game a last years. The only thing they "upgraded" is how the field looks. 
 The AI is still horrid, can someone please at least ATTEMPT to block for me on a punt return? Lead 
 blocker sucks and joins the stupid QB vision in the trash where they belong. The best thing they 
 added was the juke stick. Not to mention that apparently the developers are colorblind. For example, 
 lets look at the Chiefs roster. There is 2 players, Boomer Grigsby and Johnathan Ingram, that they 
 totally fubared on. Last time I checked, Grigsby is white and Ingram is black but the dev's made 
 them the exact opposite. The xbox 360 version looks much much better than this, all they really 
 did was just take last years game, slapped the 07 over the 06 and called it "New."
  
  EA Sports needs to pull their heads out of their collective a$$e$ and actually IMPROVE THE GAME! 
 I knew this "exclusive license" was a very bad idea, they have gotten really lax. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vfibsux
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 31, 2006 3:18 am PT
Review:  EA has insisted on ignoring the PC gamers year after year simply because it can afford to. Not 
 only are console sales high, but they own the PC market as well due to the exclusive license. Not 
 since the Sierra Football Pro series has this company been challenged to make a great football 
 game for the PC. Due to this, with the advances in technology that have been made PC football gaming 
 is probably 5 years behind as far as progress goes. That is a shame.
  
  Madden 07 is an improvement though a slight one. Most notably the new blocking feature where you 
 can control your front guys to block for you. While a nice feature to have I don't find myself 
 using it often.
  
  The graphics are the biggest letdown, while somewhat more crisp than last year they are still not 
 up to par with that of the Xbox360 which is photorealistic even. The argument has been made that 
 not all PC's can handle the graphics if they went next gen. Well not all gamers even own an Xbox360, 
 but that did not stop them from putting the graphics in there. At least you can turn down graphics 
 detail on a PC to help it run.
  
  The best thing in this game for me is the revamped Superstar Mode. Playing as a wide receiver has 
 been a blast, but not sure how far past my rookie season I will go. I can see it becoming monotonous. 
 You take the place of the player in the game and have that players field vision. This can be difficult, 
 I found it easiest to deal with playing the receiver position. Nothing is more satisfying than 
 pulling a Jerry Rice after recognizing coverage and breaking off your route to get wide open deep.
 
  
  All in all 07 is an improvement over 06, but not enough of one to make you feel the need to buy 
 it. If you have the money and like the series get it, if you need to save I would save for something 
 else. I gave 06 a higher score because it was more improved from the series before it, 07 is a 
 better game but under different circumstances. The best 6.1 game out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tieio
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 28, 2006 9:33 pm PT
Review:  It is Madden again, and again and again. It is a good thing they kept all the good features that 
 make Madden a good game, but they did not add enough this time around to justify paying another 
 $60. Just like last years version when they added a QB vision feature that most users ended up 
 turing off anyway, this year they feature some extra options for your running game. These extra 
 features are good, but they are simply not enough to base an entire new version of the game around.
 
  
  If you own Madden 05, you already have this game essentially, so don't bother buying it. If you 
 have Madden 06, just turn off the QB visiion and again, you have this game already. The game has 
 also changed some of the more familiar control options, which will force some players to readjust 
 to the button configuration they are used to. Novice players will not even notice the changes.
 
  
  Overall, this is yet another good game, but not great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strikerpatriot
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 26, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  The new highlight stick finally allows shifty guys like Dante Hall to break some tackles on a return. 
 They should have allowed QBs to use it too, but this makes running the football fun. Not just with 
 stars like LT and Alexander, but even up and coming players. Good players will use this ability 
 to allow WRs to break away from a safety coming in to make a tackle.
  
  The new animations are another nice addition. Bigger backs, especially fullbacks might now carry 
 defenders for a good five yards before being wrestled down and I've even had few times that once 
 I'm engaged by a defender I can hit the speed burst to break away. When you hit the QB from the 
 front, he actually gets planted on his back side, and there are a few new catching animations too.
 
  
  Another nice feature that wasn't talked about is the ROLES feature. Each position can gain different 
 roles after a season depending on their performance. WRs can become possesion receivers with attribute 
 boosts on 3rd down, or they can become deep threat receivers. Offensive or Defensive players can 
 earn the Offensive or Defensive playmaker role and have overall boosts that even help their teamates. 
 EA even remembered the kickers and punters with such roles as clutch kicker. Last but not least, 
 some players complain that Michaels and Madden don't sound into the game enough-compared to say 
 NCAA football, but this madden makes good strides in that category. For instance I threw a pass 
 to Chad Johnson who burned the corner for a big TD. Madden came with the analysis afterward saying 
 that he'd talked with Johnson who told him that he tried to convince the corner into doing the 
 opposite of what he actually was going to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hockeyguy6759
Rating: 6.6
Date: Aug 25, 2006 11:26 pm PT
Review:  Overall, I wasnt too surprised at the graphics/gameplay of Madden '07. It is exactly what I expected 
 it to be, less in fact without the ability to use your created teams in Frachise Mode, which was 
 even less of a turn off to the game for me than anything else. It is hard to get used to the camera 
 changing when you are trying to block for a HB or QB, that was another problem of mine. Overall, 
 it is an ok game, but I believe you can find the same game on sale for $10-$20, and its called 
 Madden '06 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtsgtsgt
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 25, 2006 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Over all its a very good game but after u see the quality and the presentation of xbox 360 u don't 
 want to play madden on ur pc that looks like ps2 game
  
  EA please make the graphic as good as xbox 360's
  EA please make the graphic as good as xbox 
 360's
  EA please make the graphic as good as xbox 360's
  EA please make the graphic as good as xbox 360's
  EA please make the graphic as good as xbox 
 360's
  EA please make the graphic as good as xbox 360's
  EA please make the graphic as good as xbox 360's
  EA please make the graphic as good as xbox 
 360's
  EA please make the graphic as good as xbox 360's
  EA please make the graphic as good as xbox 360's
  EA please make the graphic as good as xbox 
 360's
  EA please make the graphic as good as xbox 360's
  EA please make the graphic as good as xbox 360's
  EA please make the graphic as good as xbox 
 360's
  EA please make the graphic as good as xbox 360's 
::::::

::::::
UserName: welroon
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 25, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  I have also been playing Madden since the early days on Sega Genesis and Super Nintendo. I've had 
 it on Playstation, PS2 and also for computer. I have to say that each year I have eagerly looked 
 forward to the new installment to see what EA would surprise me with for the new season. And for 
 the most part I have not been disappointed. EA has always managed to come up with something new 
 and innovative to keep me coming back for more. And I have seen the graphics and gameplay improve 
 in leaps and bounds. If anyone looks at this game from year to year there is no denying that a 
 lot of work and planning goes into each new installment to bring the fans a fresh and fun game 
 with new and challenging features. Sure I would like to see some more improvements with the graphics 
 especially with the computer version since the computer does have the capability to do some really 
 nice things. All in all I am really enjoying Madden 07 for the computer. I love the new running 
 improvements and the new tackle animations. Much more realistic. The fields also look much improved 
 and more realistic. I am disappointed to not see the player intros as in the past and also nowhere 
 near the amount of cool replays either. I am also enjoying the new superstar mode. I guess there 
 will always be some sacrifices when you are trying to add new things each year and also please 
 as many people as possible. I can say this game was easily worth my 40 dollars as it will keep 
 me busy for a while especially with all of the roster updates I can get online and all of the various 
 features and modes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nadeez
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 25, 2006 4:16 am PT
Review:  i started playing Madden back in 2000, and one thing was clear from the start. it was always a 
 cut above the rest. i didnt get last years release but i did play it a little on the xbox, and 
 was impressed. but the new and improve gameplay makes this new release a must have.
  the realism in the running play is unbeleivable. it is what everyone has alway envisioned. the 
 beauty is, it can only get better. games are so much more exciting and intense. you really feel 
 like your in the action. i love the superstar mode, and the improvement to the franchise mode are 
 great.
  the only problem i have with the game is the commentary with the superstar mode. where is madden. 
 the commentary takes away from the game, and better commentary would create a better atmosphere. 
 a few replays would be nice. especially when your player does soemthign big.
  non the less if your looking for a new game, this is definately the one for you. if you got last 
 years installment and are wondering if you should get the new release. you should. its really worth 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidCart
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 24, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  First of All, the size of the game was to strange for me, only 1.7GB. But OK, install... run... 
 ok... The Title Screen is almost the same of the 2006 version. Like every time I play a new version 
 of a game, I went to the "New Features" section. NEW THINGS!! Finally!!! Now you can be the blocker... 
 cool! Let's go to the Practice Mode to try that new stuff... Total deception!! The gameplay is 
 good like the other versions, the block thing too, but the graphics... ok... graphics don't make 
 a good game but, this graphics are really poor. When I saw them for the first time, they look worst 
 than the 2006 version, a deception. The grass don't look like grass, the players are made of squares... 
 the only thing I can say is "DECEPTION". Oh! The Sound!! Really worst than the 2006 version... 
 really bad... the comments don't fit with the plays like the 06 and don't have too much of they 
 like the 06.
  My opinion, continue playing the 06 version... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manooh
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 23, 2006 5:53 am PT
Review:  I haven't played Madden for a couple of years and I must say I'm not disappointed with this one 
 ! The gameplay is great, pass, run, block everything's here and well-designed. I hadn't had the 
 opportunity to play the "Hall of Fame" mode, and I must confess that it's plain fun ! So overall, 
 a great game. But.........
  Because there's a big but and that's one recurrent but with EA Sports these days: the graphics. 
 Do not misunderstand me, graphics are good. But when you check the X360 version, you get to wonder 
 why everything seems so morose and dumbed down on the PC version. The lighting effects are close 
 to non-existent and the crowd is made of paper-thin copy-pasted people, as was the case with FIFA 
 World Cup '06. Those are details I know, but when one's got everything up to High or Highest (when 
 available) one expects far better rendering...... The sound is not exceptional either and the comments 
 sometimes err from the reality of what's happening on the pitch....
  To conclude, a great game that could have been far better if not graphically dumbed down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misterlaus
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 23, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Wow, just finished playing my 1st 3 games. Love the ability to control another player other than 
 the ball carrier to open holes for the running game. The game also lets you change plays "on the 
 fly" for each individual player rather than just calling an audible for the entire team. The graphics 
 are outstanding, very detailed in every aspect. The game basically lets you take total control 
 of what's happening on the field, whether you are on offense or defense. I'm more of a hockey fan 
 but I gotta admit Madden 07 kept me playing all night long! The only drawback was I couldn't use 
 my nyko airflo ex gamepad since the #'s on the gamepad are different from Logitech's configuration. 
 Regardless, if you are a football fan, you will love this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raiders5000
Rating: 6.2
Date: Aug 23, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  I recently bought the Madden 07 PC/DVD. Although the gameplay is smooth and quite good considering 
 the glitches of previous versions, the graphics are appalling! After playing all these next gen 
 games with stunning details and eye candy or whatever, this game literally shocked my system. I mean 
 we're talking flashback to madden 2k here. Some folks say last gen, HA!! Try "ANCIENT" gen!! Clearly 
 ,those of us with expensive gfx cards, memory sims and other souped-up whatnots to push our gaming 
 to the max ,have been cheated. Knowing that this is EA helps soften the blow, but in no means excuses 
 them for this debacle. They clearly F'ed up here. Whats funny is that my madden 2k4 is on a higher 
 level graphical wise, it just lacks the new features of 07. DVD's never looked so bad!! I'm dissapointed 
 indeed. If you like madden, this will do. But if you LOVE madden, you better get a xb360. The only 
 reason I'm playing '07 is for the SS mode.
  2K4's shelflife has just been extented & retains the higher ranking, IMO!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: radioactiveman
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 22, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  First off I'll start by saying that this is the first football game I've played since Madden 2004. 
 The graphics are better, game physics are better and sound is better. The announcer is not all 
 that great, seems just as repetitive as he was in 04, and noticed some glitches with him, I had 
 this game a day before it came out and played one half of a game so far. I returned an interception 
 for a touchdown and the announcer said nice play by the quaterback leading to the touchdown (kinda 
 confused me on that one) , and at half time I was winning 35-3 and he said the score was 35-31 even 
 thought it clearly said 35-3 in front of me.
  All in all it's a good game and a good enough improvement over 3 years for me to be satisfied. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deepdishpizza13
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 22, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  HOLY CRAP! I DIDN'T EXPECTED THIS.
  
  Okay Time for The Review.
  
  GamePlay- This game will suck you in so fast if you start playing. I must say I liked the the other 
 maddens BUT this is no other Madden This is AMAZING! My Brother didn't like madden since 1992, 
 But he started playing this and he loves it. The gameplay might be the same as the other ones BUT 
 the tackles, Break tackles, etc. are different. The Tackles looks so freakin REAL. The Break tackles 
 is soooooo Crisp looking. Graphics- When EA told everyone they were last gen graphics, I was disappointed, 
 But when I started playing it was alot better than I expected.
  I mean compare the old madden to this madden there alot of different.
  
  Sound- The sound track 
 isn't the greatest but the gameplay is better than 06. (Read my 06 review to see what was wrong 
 with it) .
  
  Value- Jesus this was easily worth $40, I would of paid $100 if I had the money  _ 
  
  Difficulty- 
 Rookie- Really easy for me
  Pro- Just Right for me
  All-Pro- Can win if team overall is under 85
  All-Madden-  .  
  Control- They're pretty difficult 
 If you're use to the Xbox and PS2 ones. But after Awhile They get easier. I recommend a Game pad
 
  
  Overall- This was A great game. Probably Best in the series
  
  Well There ya go There's my review of Madden 07 Hope you liked it, Please recommend 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Games_Analyst
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 22, 2006 2:42 am PT
Review:  Madden has long been a wonderful franchise for avid football gamers that enjoy playing the game 
 without putting on the pads and helmet. Madden is known for a more simulation style of football 
 rather than arcade football such as the Blitz series. The Madden series has generally always featured 
 above average graphics, real time football announcing, and overall, solid gameplay. Recently with 
 EA Sports' 2006 installment, many users were rather dissapointed in the amount of glitches, technical 
 difficulties, lackluster gameplay, and improvements from 2005. As a result, Madden 2006 was highly 
 regarded as the worst Madden to date since 2001. This years installment did not technically add 
 anything new to the genre, but instead cleaned up all the glaring problems with past Madden games. 
 Madden 2007 goes back to the roots and gets it right.
  
  The gameplay in Madden 2007 has shaped the game pretty close to it's real life counterpart. All 
 of the features from the previous years are back such as QB vision, hit and truck sticks, and all 
 on the fly/hot route playmaking. In addition to the aforementioned features, the physics in 2007 
 seem to be based on a more realistic setting. Players will roll over one another, carry their momentum, 
 and as a result, yards gained may differ substantially from past installments. The passing game 
 is still crisp and responsive, as compared to last year when QBs would often have a costly and 
 unnecessary delay to their throw, which resulted in numerous sacks. Users can easily pick out their 
 targets, and make a solid pass without having to worry about your QB throwing like a pee-wee football 
 player.
  
  As expected due to Shaun Alexander (Seattle running back) on the cover, the running game has received 
 quite an overhaul as far as physics are concerned. Running backs will perform a number of moves 
 without having to jam your buttons left and right, and will roll off defenders, carry them with 
 their own momentum moving forward, and plow over defenders. Unlike earlier version of Madden, where 
 users could select a quarter or dime defense (max pass protection) and still stop the run for a 
 gain of 1-2 yards, Madden gurus will now have to pick defensive run plays carefully. If one chooses 
 a defensive pass play, and the offense has chosen a run, generally the user controlled team will 
 give up a significant amount of yardage. This makes games much more exciting and users can still 
 win games where the score is 28-21 for example. Previous games would often result in the user blowing 
 out the computer on harder difficulties for a seasoned Madden player. There are some small issues 
 in that the running game can sometimes get out of hand where a single running back would be carrying 
 the ball 40+ times. You'd think they'd be getting tired but they just keep trucking along. In any 
 event, it's not that much of an issue to really worry about. Since the passing game has generally 
 been spot on in the Madden genre, the running additions and re-configurement is a nice addition.
 
  
  Special teams was atrocious in Madden 2006. During a punt, your team would not block at all, which 
 often resulted in 2-3 defenders always waiting right where you caught the ball. This meant that 
 you would have to fair catch nearly every instance. In addition, the computer punts would generally 
 be hilariously short which meant you could easily score points. Field goal kicking has generally 
 always been flawless with previous games. Fortunately Madden 2007 fixes all punting issues. Punters 
 actually punt 40+ yards without having to change the difficulty sliders, and your defenders will 
 block graciously on your punt returns. Unfortunately Madden somewhat messed up with a flawless 
 field goal system. While everything appears fine, kickers can now really boot the ball. It is not 
 uncommon for some higher rated kickers to constantly get touchbacks, or kick 55+ yard field goals 
 with ease. In one instance, this reviewer was able to clear the upright on a 60 yard field goal 
 kick, by about 10 or so yards. This means that 65+ yard field goals are quite likely. This is generally 
 not a common trait of true NFL kickers.
  
  Other then the passing, running, and special teams gameplay, Madden continues to keep franchise, 
 superstar, exhibition, and mini game options. Users can create themselves via franchise or superstar 
 and play 20 or so years until they retire in the hall of fame if they are good enough. Superstar 
 welcomes a much needed feature of changing your players looks while creating himself. Unfortunately 
 parents cannot be manually changed so if you're shooting for 100% realism, you may be clicking 
 for a while to get the exact jobs of your true parents. Still, superstar adds the necessary features 
 of customizing yourself. Users also play superstar mode as if they were playing their own position. 
 If you're a QB you will not be running, receiving, or playing defense. Instead you'll simply be 
 the QB. This is a very nice system for those that truly wish to simulate the experience. You also 
 get to go through the draft, workout, and customize your apartment. It's very neat to see your 
 name included with those that were actually drafted for the 06-07 season (such as Reggie Bush, 
 Matt Leinart, Vince Young, etc.) .
  
  The graphics in Madden 2007 are as usual, above average. Unfortunately PC users did not get next 
 generation graphics, but the player models seems less blocky then in 2005-06. The field is much 
 more detailed as grass is actually visible now instead of a giant green mat. Crowd detail and sidelines 
 are better but the noticable difference is minor. Some reflection on helmets can be seen but nothing 
 will knock your socks off compared to the X-Box 360 version. Fortunately, some unnecessary features 
 such as halftime cheerleaders have been removed. As stated earlier, actual animations for each 
 character appear more vibrant, which helps the actual motion and graphical effects of the players.
 
  
  Sound is technically no different in 2007 from 2006, spare the glitches. It seems that Madden will 
 no longer say that the Patriots are having a good game, when it's just the Vikings and Seahawks 
 playing. Al Michaels does a fine job as usual, and EA Sports seems to have added a few more lines 
 this year. The minigames also have music now so it's not just a boring quiet sound of your QB throwing 
 balls at pads on the field. EA Trax is back, but I prefer the musical score this y ear compared 
 to 04-06. The crowd effects are quite superb if you're playing superstar. Generally the field volume 
 is louder than the announcers, and the hits and other player voices are all quite easily heard. 
 It's an immersive feature that really adds to the realism that you're on the field playing in the 
 NFL. The only glaring problem with the crowd though, is that sometimes they don't seem to care. 
 You'll complete a long pass for a TD at your home stadium, yet everyone seems to really not care. 
 You'll hear some minor booing and cheering obviously based on the stadium and team you're playing, 
 but it just seems to lack the intensity of Qwest (Seahawks) and Soldier (Bears) FIeld, or Arrowhead 
 (Chiefs) stadium.
  
  Value wise the game is great. Aside from a more realistic running game, all player stats seem to 
 have taken care of themselves. For example, you can expect Shaun Alexander to run for 1700-2000 
 yards and 20+ TDs. LaDanian Tomlinson will put up 1600 yards and 18-20 TDs. This is all by simming 
 the game. The offensive line pancake glitch has been fixed, where your offensive lineman would 
 record a rediculous amount of pancakes, thus awarding pro-bowl status to nearly all of them. Furthermore, 
 key players are no longer constantly injured. In 2006, it was not uncommon to see Peyton Manning, 
 Shaun Alexander, Randy Moss and crew out for the season, multiple weeks, or career ending injuries. 
 Strangely enough, most of those that were injured, have never or rarely been injured in their entire 
 careers. Thankfully this has been fixed. Finally, certain teams (at least for 2007) will not crazily 
 end up in the super bowl or playoffs. After simming a number of seasons, I generally found Carolina, 
 Seattle, Denver, Indianapolis, Washington, Dallas, Pittsburgh, New England, and a few other teams 
 in the Super Bowl. Nowhere did I see other teams that would leave you wondering whether or not 
 EA Sports really knows football.
  
  In an effort to add increasing value to the superstar and franchise modes, EA Sports has also added 
 a player specific role development to the game. This means that players can earn the titles of: 
 Star QB, pass rusher, star running back, 1st round draft pick, etc. These titles add morale to 
 your team and can boost other players' stats. In addition, players with these titles will most 
 likely be difficult to trade for and the computer controlled teams will not as likely let them 
 go. In all previous Madden games, it was quite funny to see star players being traded away to other 
 teams, when in reality they would not be going anywhere. Here, players that would most likely not 
 be traded, won't be (of course there are varying circumstances) . As a result, seasons now will 
 be much more realistic. 
  
  The draft itself is much more improved. The draft finally comes after free agency, and users can 
 play a college all star game to check out the new upcoming draft class if they wish. Teams can 
 also have upcoming rookies perform individual workouts which can help identify or boost their stats 
 prior to the actual draft. The actual draft itself hasn't changed a whole lot, but football gurus 
 will very much appreciate that the draft is after free agency and that the rookies are more involved 
 then they were in previous years. 
  
  One of the least important features in Madden, but still worthy of mentioning, is menu interaction. 
 This year Madden has cleaned up a lot of the screen. Menus appear to move much more fluidly, load 
 faster, and are presented in a compact format. It's not as overwhelming to see all the information 
 pouring on your monitor at the same time. While most of the menus are an improvement over last 
 year, some of the text and formatting for certain areas of the game have taken a step back. For 
 example, when users view the box score after a game, the team data is really not colored or categorized 
 in a way to easily distinguish team data. The text is big and blocky and it's easy to get lost. 
 Still, aside from such small issues, the presentation, light colors, and lack of clutter all over 
 the screen are welcoming.
  
  Overall Madden fixes all the glaring problems and issues found in previous games. As a result, 
 nothing has really changed that is going to leave users frantically running around screaming about 
 a cool feature. Instead, the game will leave users with a warm satisfied feeling that they can 
 rely on computer controlled AI, a practical running and special teams game, and most importantly, 
 simulated football in Madden's best form.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
