-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Madden NFL 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/maddennfl2003/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 20, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.2
Critic Score: 8.8, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 311 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Genre: Football Sim
Date:     Aug 12, 2002
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Madden 2003 is a must for anyone with even a passing interest in football. 

 Just a few throws downfield are all that you need to be convinced that Madden NFL 2003 is better 
 than its predecessor. Unlike last year's game -- which is best remembered for holes in the secondary 
 that permitted the likes of Ryan Leaf to pass for more than 400 yards on any given virtual Sunday -- the 
 new game is smart defensively. Call nothing but deep routes here and your quarterback will be rewarded 
 with lots of turnovers and a mouthful of sod. Driving the length of the field is now as tough as 
 it should be, and as satisfying as computer sports gaming gets.           Madden 2003 looks great 
 whether you're up close...    

  All of this means that Madden 2003 is a must for anyone with even a passing interest in football. 
 It might very well be the finest game in the venerable history of the EA Sports series, thanks 
 to enhancements to the artificial intelligence, spectacular production values, and a number of 
 new game types and bonus features for both hard-core and casual pigskin fans. If not for a console-inspired 
 interface that doesn't lend itself well to the PC and a shortsighted (not to mention tightfisted) 
 approach to online play, the game would be inches from perfection.   

  But Madden 2003 is nearly flawless where it really counts. When you get down in the trenches, the 
 game provides a remarkably authentic re-creation of the sport of football. This is particularly 
 evident in regard to the defense put up by the artificial intelligence. Computer coaches are almost 
 preternaturally adept at anticipating what play you're about to run, although this varies somewhat 
 depending on which of the four difficulty settings you prefer. Run the textbook play for the situation 
 at hand and you'll likely get stuffed. Fall into a play-calling pattern and you'll almost certainly 
 run into a wall.           ... or back in the pocket on a rainy day.    

  This is particularly evident when passing. Last year's game featured defensive coverage that was 
 apparently based on zone schemes. No matter what was actually taking place on the field, the linebackers, 
 defensive backs, and safeties would remain in loosely defined areas. The result was an inflexible 
 style that was easy to exploit, particularly when throwing deep, because receivers could run right 
 past defenders. That isn't the case any longer. Defensive players now demonstrate a level of situational 
 awareness that wouldn't be out of place in the defensive backfields of the NFL elite. They react 
 to what you do with all the smarts and speed of their real-life counterparts. Just getting open 
 is a challenge, let alone breaking big plays on a consistent basis. Slow down a replay and you 
 can even see backs reacting to balls in the air, moving into position for a knockdown or an interception, 
 or to make sure that the receiver doesn't go very far.            Minicamp games let you hone 
 your skills.    

  Lifelike physics come into play no matter how you choose to move the ball. On passing plays, the 
 intended receiver has to be in a position to make the reception. If he's not in precisely the right 
 position and facing the right way, the pass will be incomplete. Tackles work in the same fashion. 
 Unless the player is in the right place at the right time, he'll end up grabbing a lot of air. 
 Hitting from an awkward angle can knock the ballcarrier down, but only if a lot of momentum has 
 been built up. This allows you to develop a good ground game, as defenders have to get a good grip 
 to pull down the league's top running backs. Accurately modeling physics in this way makes every 
 play more realistic, both for the obvious reasons and because it forces players to adopt the gang 
 tackle mentality needed when dealing with speedsters like Marshall Faulk and Marvin Harrison. It 
 further accentuates the arcade element of Madden 2003, as you pretty much have to master juking, 
 spinning, stiff-arming, and swimming to handle the best that the NFL has to offer.   

  These arcade-friendly aspects are made easier to handle this year with the addition of an entertaining 
 minicamp mode. Essentially a series of minigames that help you hone your skills at all positions, 
 this mode is really a computer game version of the old punt, pass, and kick competitions for kids. 
 In this case, however, you get to visit each NFL city in the Madden cruiser and drill with the 
 pros. You'll travel to Kansas City and attempt to make completions through hoops, head down to 
 Dallas for some running with moving tackling dummies, shuffle off to Buffalo to swat balls with 
 defensive backs, and more. Accumulate a high enough score in each city's drill and you will unlock 
 a game situation. When you beat the passing drill in Kansas City, for example, you'll be put at 
 the helm of the Chiefs offense with just two minutes left in a 14-12 game and charged with the 
 task of moving the ball 50 yards in the air for the winning touchdown or field goal. Minicamp cities 
 are organized into rookie, pro, all-pro, and Madden levels of difficulty. As is usual with these 
 sorts of things, you have to beat all the drills and situations in one level before moving on to 
 the next.           You can customize your favorite teams.    

  If you're a traditionalist interested only in the core football game modes, you won't be disappointed 
 with Madden 2003. Dozens of clubs are included, ranging from classic teams to those in today's 
 NFL and NFL Europe. Most come with team-specific stadiums, and even a range of old-time and alternate 
 uniforms and helmets. You can take part in exhibition games, try career play with the franchise 
 mode, practice plays, work on a two-minute drill, set up specific in-game situations, and go online 
 to take on human opponents. Of these modes of play, franchise has been beefed up the most. All 
 the included teams can be selected here, even the all-time clubs if you're interested in a Hall 
 of Fame-style league. Fictional teams can also be used in franchise play now. Added detail in almost 
 every area makes it seem like you're truly running a pro football club. Dealing with free agents 
 and draft picks now includes lots of negotiation and the requisite obnoxious comments from agents, 
 and you have to prepare for the future by scouting college players before the draft. Player progress 
 can be tracked, so you can tell how those rookies are faring over time.   

  Many of Madden 2003's gameplay tweaks help long-term play. The game mode options now include a 
 player selection that allows you to have plays called in by a computer coach. This is perfect when 
 you want to abandon management duties for a game or two and see what it's like in today's NFL, 
 where almost everything is signaled in from the sidelines. The accelerated clock feature ticks 
 time off between plays so you get realistic numbers when playing with quarters of 10 minutes or 
 more. Artificial intelligence sliders again allow you to adjust nearly every aspect of the gridiron 
 game, from quarterback accuracy to the likelihood of a pass being knocked down.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: xgameboybobx
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 11, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  alright so the music in this game annoys me so I just used the files to delete the songs and add 
 my own music! It seems that the PC versions of these madden games have more options and mods! I 
 can't add my own music to madden 07 on the ps3 or ps2 but the even though this game is old, you 
 can always update the roster or download all time rosters (John Elway, Dan Marino, Joe Montana 
 ETC.) I also made my own logos for my created teams and they look pretty sweet! I have 2 franchises 
 at once (North Tallahassee and South Tallahassee) and one of my seasons I made it to the super 
 bowl wth NT and played against ST and I won 33-7 and then had a long winning streak until I finally 
 lost to St. Louis in the playoffs! THAT SUCKS! But anyhow this game is awesome and hopefully I'll 
 get madden 08 on the pc so I can put my graphics card in good use and also not have to download 
 the latest rosters till the next season! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboydb59
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2006 6:27 am PT
Review:  This is a great Madden edition. Sure it's old, but the only way you can really tell is by the smooth 
 but not so detailed graphics, and the slightly sub-par sound quality (And of course the 2002 rosters...)
 
  
  Pros: The offenses are smarter than in 2005. Backs will juke and spin and quarterbacks will find 
 an open man much more. It's mind-blowingly cheap (in price not quality)
  The gameplay feels about the same as the later editions
  Passing is more realistic (in 04 and 
 05 the defensive backs knock everything down, but never intercept it, even if it's right in their 
 hands, even if you set the Interceptions AI to 99 for both sides, in this one there are some picks 
 and the defensive backs can't jump a yard and a half, can't make an amazing block with their head 
 turned the other way, and won't try as often because the receivers always get better position...)
 
  The announcers aren't quite as stupid as the later versions
  The Franchise mode isn't too complicated
  
  Cons:
  The players heads are twice the size they 
 should be
  You can't move your team to another city in Franchise mode
  There's no hit stick, and not too many defensive audibles and switches
  A deep pass will work 
 if there isn't double coverage. Every time.
  All-pro is too easy, while All-Madden is too hard (in 05 Pro is too easy while All-pro is too hard)
 
  
  Buy this game. (You know you want to...)
  
  One Last Note: Don't try any buttonhook routes. Seriously. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrackpotGANJ
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 29, 2006 12:40 pm PT
Review:  I dont know why they gave this such a high rating it's not that good. The main reason i don't think 
 that this game is all that great is because you can run and run in this game, but not a good game 
 for passing. I normally rush for like 400 yards a game and that is not realistic and i want a realistic 
 madden. On the plus side the graphics are better then the year before, but that should be a given 
 every year. I have nothing else to say about this game except if you like to run then buy this 
 game because that is all that you need to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rustyjayrusty
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  Great game, i never even knew anything about football before buying this game at a yard sale for 
 $3. The mini games and wide range of difficulty levels are great for begginers. I am a big fan 
 of sports games, most notably hockey games, but this game has succeded in making me a football 
 fan. EA Sports NHL games ate a big dissapointment for me because I have been playing the series 
 from '93 to '96 and they were all great for their time, but modern ones are a big dissapointment. 
 This football game is the best i have ever played and most likely will be that way until I buy 
 a newer one. So, if you like video games buy Madden NFL 2003. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
