-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Madden NFL 06
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/maddennfl2006/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Defensive game is still great, and the offense shines, despite the iffy quarterback controls.
 Franchise mode continues to be a deep, engaging experience.
 AI is exceptionally challenging on the higher difficulties.
 Solid online play.
 Gotta love that truck stick.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Quarterback vision needs refinement.
 Superstar mode is much better in concept than execution.
 No other mode changes to speak of, and franchise is practically untouched, with no new minigames.
 John Madden is just as blunt and unpleasant as ever.
 Some very odd bugs.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 19, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 7.7, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 544 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Genre: Football Sim
Date:     Aug 17, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
For as good as Madden NFL 06 is overall, you can't help but be at least somewhat disappointed by 
 the game as a whole. 

  Just in time for the NFL preseason is the latest edition of EA Sports' football juggernaut, Madden 
 NFL 06. With last year's Madden NFL 2005 focusing heavily on improving the defensive game and overall 
 presentation of the series, while not necessarily adding any grand, new game modes to the package, 
 06 shifts the other way, going out of its way to specifically work on the offensive side of the 
 ball by debuting all-new passing controls. On paper, all the additions and changes sound like fine 
 improvements, but the end result isn't nearly as impressive as it seems like it ought to have been. 
 In fact, Madden 06 comes off as a somewhat unfocused and unpolished piece of work, which is sort 
 of a shocking revelation for a brand that's ridden high on its level of quality for so many years. 
 Ultimately, Madden NFL 06 is a highly playable game of football, but in comparison with the leaps 
 forward the franchise has made in previous years, 06 feels like a false start.  

          The new quarterback vision feature will either be something you grow to enjoy over time, 
 or it will become the bane of your existence.     

  For years now, the one aspect of Madden's gameplay that's barely seen an ounce of alteration is 
 the passing game. That can be said for just about any football game of the last decade or so, too. 
 Even with the additions of things like hot routes and formation shifts, the basic act still entailed 
 snapping the ball, looking for an open receiver, and then pressing the button that corresponded 
 to said receiver. Bing, bang, boom. But this year, the developer has completely changed the ebb 
 and flow of how you pass the ball in a football game. Now, each and every quarterback is given 
 a field of vision, represented by a cone of light on the field that highlights exactly what your 
 QB can see. Quarterbacks with higher ratings (especially ratings higher in the "awareness" category) 
 will get bigger fields to work with -- like Tom Brady, Brett Favre, or Peyton Manning -- whereas less-aware 
 quarterbacks get a decidedly smaller field to work with, and sometimes can't see beyond a single 
 receiver. When you first snap the ball, you'll be locked on to a primary receiver. But by moving 
 the right control stick around, you can move your view to another receiver, should you need to. 
 And trust us when we say you will.  

  Just like in the real-life NFL, reading a quarterback's eyes is a big part of playing defense. 
 As such, the defenders in Madden 06 have the innate ability to see where your QB has his focus 
 fixed, and they will predictably try to get a jump on the ball. To combat this, you'll need to 
 look off defenders, either by moving to another receiver entirely or just by quickly flicking the 
 stick back and forth to momentarily confuse them. You can opt to have the vision automatically 
 snap to a specific receiver, rather than fumbling with trying to manually aim the stick, by holding 
 down the right trigger button and then pressing the button assigned to that receiver. But then 
 you have to let up on the trigger and press the receiver's button again. And you must do all this 
 very quickly, for while the scope of things you have to do to get a ball into a receiver's hand 
 this year has gotten more methodical in nature, the speed of the game has not.  

  And therein lies the folly of quarterback vision. While there's no arguing that the feature itself 
 is realistic and adds complexity to the passing game as a whole, it doesn't exactly make it more 
 fun, necessarily. The whole song and dance you have to go through to get the cone to switch to 
 a receiver post-snap lends itself to you taking a whole lot more sacks than you might be used to, 
 and even just trying to move the stick around manually is a clunky affair in the early goings. 
 It's pretty much a necessity to keep the receiver you're throwing to in your line of sight, because 
 if you don't, you'll throw the lamest of lame ducks, the likes of which you probably can't even 
 fathom until you've seen it. So really, there's no room for error. It's also worth mentioning that 
 the vision cone pretty much requires a good dual analog controller to be useful to PC players, 
 and even then, we noticed some weird stiffness in the movement of the cone with multiple peripheral 
 controllers. By no means is the passing game unplayable now. Quite the contrary. There will just 
 likely be quite a bit of practice time needed for the average football game fan to get accustomed 
 to this newfangled cone, and some may even grow to enjoy it for its inherent complexity. Though 
 conversely, others will have little more than utter disdain for it. So perhaps for this reason, 
 the game has an option to turn off the passing cone altogether... though doing so will leave you 
 with a game that feels practically identical to Madden NFL 2005 in every conceivable way.  

  To be fair, there are some other additions to the gameplay, most of which are relatively small, 
 but almost all of which fare better than the QB vision. The other big quarterback-related addition 
 is precision passing. Basically, by pressing the left control stick on your peripheral controller 
 left, right, up, or down while passing, you can lead your pass ahead, behind, just above, or just 
 below your targeted receiver's chest. This lets you lead your passes where the defenders can't 
 get them. While it might seem a little odd at first, it's actually a pretty simple mechanic, and 
 it works wonders when done correctly. Another neat addition is the smart route system. Here, by 
 pressing a couple of buttons before the snap, you can tell a receiver to run past the first-down 
 marker before breaking off into his assigned route. This is great for situations where you've got 
 a perfect play picked out, but the ideal receiver is set to run a route that doesn't go past the 
 marker. Though some routes seemingly can't be altered, most key ones can, and, again, this works 
 great. For ball carriers, the big new change this year is the truck stick. It's like the hit stick 
 on defense, but instead of tackling, you press the right control stick forward to try to bowl over 
 a defender. Like the hit stick, it requires some good timing to be effective, and frankly, there 
 are times when it seems like the stick isn't really doing anything at all. But then there are other 
 times when you can see your running back knock a guy back flat on his ass. And that's damn satisfying -- assuming 
 you can make it work right. Like the passing cone, the truck stick sometimes felt quite unresponsive, 
 no matter what controller we used.  

          Keep on truckin'.     

  On the defensive side, apart from a few obscure artificial intelligence tweaks here and there, 
 nothing's really changed at all. All the customization aspects that debuted in Madden 2005 are 
 back again, and they all work fundamentally the same. While it's clear that the focus of development 
 in 06 was the offense, it might have been nice to have made just a change or two to the defensive 
 system. But hey, at least the defense is still fun.  

  Unfortunately, Madden NFL 06 also has a few gameplay bugs and glitches on both sides of the ball 
 that dampen the experience somewhat. Most of these are pretty minor things, like draw plays where -- every 
 single time -- your quarterback's vision will be focused straight ahead, as opposed to focusing in 
 the direction of a particular receiver. This makes it blatantly obvious what you're doing, giving 
 your opponents a great opportunity to come thundering after you. Finally, there are still some 
 AI glitches here and there where running backs will get stuck behind offensive linemen, linemen 
 will get stuck trying to block defenders, and so on. Perhaps the biggest bug in the game is one 
 that players discovered not long after the console versions were released. Effectively, anytime 
 you select a two-running back set, the game will assign different button icons to your fullback 
 and halfback depending on whether you choose a passing or a running play. What this does is let 
 the person playing defense zoom out to discover if you're running a pass or run play. It doesn't 
 give out routes or otherwise, but this is still a pretty ugly issue. While no specific one of these 
 bugs completely wrecks the game or anything, the combination of multiple issues like these makes 
 Madden 06 seem sloppier than in recent years.     

  So, Madden still plays great, despite its rough edges. It just isn't much of a leap forward from 
 the last game. Unfortunately, the same can easily be said of the play mode front as well. All the 
 usual suspects -- the franchise mode, minigames, quick play, online, create-a-fan -- are back. And 
 they're all the same. There are no new minigames whatsoever, and the franchise mode looks like 
 it could easily have just been lifted right out of 2005 and plunked down into 06. Even the Tony 
 Bruno radio dialogue that plays through much of the franchise mode seems largely lifted from 2005, 
 and the parts that are clearly new don't come across any differently or any more interesting than 
 the old stuff. Owner mode's been completely untouched, the free agency period still comes  after 
  the draft, for some reason, and you still can't sign more players past the maximum of 54, even 
 if you put half your roster on injured reserve. In short, if it was in Madden 2005's franchise 
 mode -- even if it was buggy or broken -- it's in this version too. Of course, we loved Madden 2005's 
 franchise mode, and it's still great fun to play with here. But the fact that hardly a single iota 
 of it was even tweaked or marginally fixed up is disappointing.  

          Because you just know that Joey Harrington ain't gonna last in Detroit.     

  The online 
 play comes across similarly unmolested. Apart from an egregious sign-up process that forces you 
 to make the best of a no-win situation by making you choose to either pay $2 via credit card or 
 agree to get spammed by ESPN mailings to register your account, the online works just as it did 
 last year. You can access leagues and clubs, play online ranked versions of the minicamp drills, 
 and gamble EA Sports points on games you play against people. The online games we played seemed 
 mostly smooth, though we did run into some problems with lag here and there. The one addition made 
 this year to the mode in the console versions was the EA sports locker. It's a sort of hub area 
 where your friends can access files you leave for them, and likewise, you can do the same in their 
 lockers. That seems to be absent on the PC version, though considering how generally superfluous 
 the mode felt on consoles, that's not really a big deal.  

  With all that said, there's one big game mode debut in Madden NFL 06 in the form of the superstar 
 mode. The premise here is actually a fairly ingenious one. In franchise mode, you can manage the 
 day-to-day tasks of an NFL team to your heart's content. In the create-a-player mode, you can model 
 a player after your own likeness or any likeness you prefer. Why not smash them together into one 
 thing? The superstar mode is a way for you to take your created player and send him off into the 
 gauntlet that is the NFL, free to develop your career however you choose. You can be a stand-up 
 guy with a "go team" attitude, or you can be the me-first-minded egomaniac who's constantly complaining 
 about coaches and guaranteeing Super Bowl wins. Hell, who wouldn't love to live the fabulous lifestyle 
 of an NFL superstar? That's what makes the mode such a brilliant idea in concept... and such a colossal 
 failure in execution.  

  You begin the mode by picking your family in something of a parental draft lottery. You're presented 
 with a randomly generated mother and father, each with specific occupations, IQs, and hobbies. 
 You could end up with a nuclear physicist with a penchant for macram and a professional butcher 
 who loves mountain biking. It's all very, very random. Some parents will obviously be more conducive 
 to producing a top-tier NFL player (like a former NFL player, for example, or at least someone 
 athletic) . These highly conducive parents only come up every once in a great while, however, and 
 if you happen to skip past them once, you won't see them again, most likely. Once you have a proper 
 pair of parents lined up, you're on to the fun stuff -- relatively speaking. You first meet up with 
 former Broncos running back and current NFL Network mainstay Terrell Davis. He acts as your pseudomentor 
 throughout the process. Initially, he just gives you a quick overview of what you'll be doing before 
 you get drafted. One of those things is picking an agent. You've got several to choose from initially, 
 each with strengths in the categories of negotiation, influence, and interview. If you don't like 
 your agent after a while, you can always hire a new one. Next is an IQ test that's loosely based 
 on the kinds of questions you'd find on the real-life Wonderlic test (the big exam that all prospective 
 NFL rookies take before draft day) . After that, it's a quick interview, where you answer utterly 
 inane questions about what you like to eat and slightly more relevant questions like what team 
 you'd ultimately like to be drafted to. Of course, no rookie gets to choose where he goes in the 
 draft, so you'll be drafted by any of the 32 teams that has a need at your position. In most cases, 
 we went between the late second and late third rounds. The only time we were picked later was when 
 we created a kicker. Go figure.  

          If only you could pick your parents in real life.     

  Once you've got your team, 
 it's off to training camp, the season, and, if you're lucky, the postseason. In between, you'll 
 periodically get interview opportunities, and your agent will get you sponsorships with wacky companies, 
 as well as offers for random movie roles. Like the interviews, movies are basically conversational 
 minigames, though you're actually graded on these. You're given three lines to memorize and then 
 four variances of that line when the camera's actually rolling. Only one is correct, but they all 
 look nearly identical, so you actually do have to do some solid memorization to succeed. If movies 
 aren't your thing, you can travel around town to visit your agent's office to talk about your opponents, 
 complain about your coaches, or even announce your retirement. You can also hit up the local barber 
 shop and/or tattoo parlor to gussy up your player, and you can get to the performance institute 
 to play some of the minicamp games to give your player a stat boost for the coming week.  

  OK, so there's a lot you can do in the superstar mode. But where does it all lead? The answer, 
 unfortunately, is nowhere of consequence. Because the superstar mode is laid out in a similar way 
 to the franchise mode, every little thing is handled with text menus, conversational minigames, 
 and play modes -- like the minicamp games, for instance -- that exist elsewhere in the game. While 
 this works all well and good for a management simulation like the franchise mode, managing the 
 life of a superstar seems like it ought to be a flashier affair. And even within the confines of 
 what the mode offers, it still comes across as hackneyed and not realistic in the slightest. Part 
 of the problem is that there seems to be a gigantic disconnect between what your player does and 
 how it actually affects him. Your player has statistics in things like visibility, popularity, 
 and marketability, but what exactly makes any of these things rise or fall is terribly opaque. 
 Obviously, guaranteeing a win and then following through with a victory seems like it ought to 
 give you a good visibility and popularity boost, but even that often seems like it doesn't do as 
 much as it ought to. And then later, your ratings will just take a sudden nosedive for no explicable 
 reason. There's no decisive feedback either. You'll get voicemails and text messages from Terrell 
 Davis, your agent, as well as from other random people throughout the mode. However, they never 
 ever tell you anything of substance. If anything, they just repeat exactly what you already know, 
 and that's assuming they even say the right thing, which isn't a guarantee. Sometimes they'll write 
 to you about things like movie roles that never surface, and other times the game will tell you 
 you've got new mail when, in fact, you've got no new messages at all.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (23 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Halo-Master12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  Madden has just took a gigantic leap forward when they brought out this game. With the new nfl 
 superstar mode this is a game that is worth your while. Why it's good Madden 06 has great graphics 
 and a brand new mode thatb will last for a while. You get to be your own person and turn him into 
 a super star! Also with great multiplayer and great Season and franchise modes this is the game 
 to get! Why it's Bad
  The only bummer you should concered about is how the game works. What I mean is that it's annoying 
 when sometimes for no reason your quaterback over throws it or When he gets sacked even though 
 i knew i pushed the button already for fhim to throw. But besides that this is the game to get! 
 It's a game that will last for a month or two which is really good for a sports game! get this 
 game and you will not regret it! Thank you madden for this great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgamer159
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 28, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  im just skipping to the basics gameplay-well the new feature of the game the passing presicion 
 cone doesnt seem to change the gameplay much at all although the running game with the truck stick 
 is pretty nice
  
  graphics-for the pc you'd expect these kind of graphics not good and not bad just okay
  
  sound 
 is nice thats pretty much it for me i have this game and i have to tell you this isnt a game that 
 you want to buy what the hell is up with the 100 words well i think this is 100 now good bye NO 
 ISNT OMG BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH 
 BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH THERE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B4thecrap
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 15, 2006 3:02 pm PT
Review:  The game as a whole is good, but the one unholy aspect of the game... is the QB Zone. This 'Revolutionary 
 , ha, system is supposed to make passing more precise and accurate, but it's just a bother. The 
 music choice is mediocre, at best, and the commentary is pretty much the same as last year with 
 John and Al yappin away. The graphics are good, but will some please for the love of god help those 
 crowd members!!! They've been mutated... oh wait, no it's just a bunch of lazy designers. Other 
 than the flaws this is a pretty decent game. The Superstar mode is a good addition to the experience, 
 and you'll still spend your time playing as your favorite team. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnzoLake
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  La temporada 2005-2006 ha llegado marcada por la compra total de las licencias de la NFL por parte 
 de EA Sports, de manera que Madden NFL se ha quedado solo en la lucha por ser el mejor juego de 
 f&uacute; tbol americano. Muchos podr&iacute; an pensar que debido a la falta de competencia, EA 
 Sports se ha limitado a sacar un juego con pocas novedades solamente para sacar dinero. A continuaci&oacute; n 
 veremos si es as&iacute;. Introducci&oacute; n La verdad es que una franquicia como Madden NFL es 
 un valor en alza, no hay m&aacute; s que ver sus r&eacute; cords de ventas en la primera semana. 
 Sin embargo, esta nueva edici&oacute; n llega con muchas novedades en todos los aspectos del juego.
 
  
  Para empezar, tenemos el nuevo modo NFL Superstar, en el que tendr&aacute; s que crear a un jugador 
 desde cero, teniendo en cuenta desde el cociente intelectual de sus padres hasta los tatuajes que 
 pueda llevar por el cuerpo. Empiezas conociendo tu agente, te hacen un test de inteligencia, un 
 par de entrevistas y empieza el Draft. La famosa ceremonia en la que los equipos de la NFL eligen 
 a sus rookies para la nueva temporada. Cuando te selecciona un equipo puedes elegir lo que quieres 
 hacer: ser un currante que se conforma con todo y ser&aacute; fiel a su equipo o un individualista 
 que solo quiere minutos de juego y pide el traspaso a la m&iacute; nima que est&aacute; descontento.
 
  
  Tendr&aacute; s que entrenar todos los d&iacute; as de diversas formas para mejorar tus cualidades 
 y hacerte un hueco entre los titulares. Tambi&eacute; n contar&aacute; s con rodajes de pel&iacute; culas, 
 contratos publicitarios y entrevistas en programas de televisi&oacute; n que aumentar&aacute; n tu 
 fama. Ya te has hecho un hueco en la NFL, ahora todo depende de ti. El resto de modos son los de 
 siempre: Franchise Mode, Mini-Camp, 2-Minute Drill, Practice, Situation y Network Game. El juego 
 cuenta con otras tantas novedades que comentaremos en el apartado de jugabilidad. Gr&aacute; ficos 
 Los gr&aacute; ficos cumplen perfectamente con el objetivo del juego, que es la de representar la 
 NFL fielmente.
  
  Los campos est&aacute; n reproducidos de manera asombrosa, en cada detalle. Tenemos desde los entrenadores 
 hasta las animadoras, pasando por fans que estar&aacute; n en la primera fila de las gradas para 
 abuchearnos o aplaudirnos, seg&uacute; n se tercie. El modelado de los jugadores cuenta con gran 
 detalle, aunque no hay ning&uacute; n cambio sustancial con respecto a la edici&oacute; n del 2005. 
 Los entendidos de esta Liga podr&aacute; n reconocer perfectamente a sus &iacute; dolos sobre el 
 campo. Sonido Como es habitual en los juegos de EA Sports, el apartado sonoro es sobresaliente 
 en todos sus aspectos.
  
  Los comentarios han cambiado poco con respecto a los del a&ntilde; o pasado, pero siguen contando 
 con gran calidad y transmiten perfectamente lo que se est&aacute; viviendo en el campo. La banda 
 sonora es espectacular. Si bien la del a&ntilde; o pasado estaba eclipsada por American Idiot, de 
 Green Day, este a&ntilde; o no contamos con ning&uacute; n grupo o cantante de gran fama internacional, 
 pero s&iacute; con grandes temas a la altura de las circunstancias. En anteriores ediciones la 
 BSO estaba m&aacute; s orientada al Rock, pero este a&ntilde; o cuenta con m&aacute; s temas de car&aacute; cter 
 rapero. Los efectos sonoros son espectaculares, desde los sonidos del choque de los jugadores hasta 
 los gritos del Quarterback indicando la jugada a realizar a sus compa&ntilde; eros. Jugabilidad 
 Este a&ntilde; o el juego cuenta con varias innovaciones en cuanto a jugabilidad que pasaremos a 
 comentar.
  
  Para empezar, hay que decir que este ha sido el a&ntilde; o del Quarterback. Ahora podemos ver y 
 controlar su campo de visi&oacute; n, de manera que podremos enga&ntilde; ar a los defensores y tambi&eacute; n 
 lanzar con m&aacute; s precisi&oacute; n a los receptores. Est&aacute; claro que el campo de visi&oacute; n 
 no es el mismo si en nuestro equipo contamos con un Donovan McNabb, Peyton Manning o Michael Vick 
 que con un rookie. La otra gran novedad est&aacute; en el campo de las penetraciones por parte 
 de los Halfbacks. Se realiza con el stick anal&oacute; gico derecho y se llama Truck Stick. Con 
 este m&eacute; todo podremos romper placajes o esquivar a los defensores. Aqu&iacute; es donde se 
 nota realmente la diferencia de tener a un LaDainian Tomlinson en el equipo.
  
  En el resto del juego, la jugabilidad ha cambiado muy poco. En el apartado ofensivo hay que decir 
 que contamos con algunos movimientos nuevos por parte de los receptores y de los otros jugadores, 
 tambi&eacute; n cuando celebramos nuestra llegada a la end zone. El apartado defensivo no ha cambiado 
 pr&aacute; cticamente nada, tal vez para otra edici&oacute; n&amp;#8230; Conclusi&oacute; n Este a&ntilde; o, 
 y m&aacute; s que nunca, Madden NFL es compra obligada para todos los fans del f&uacute; tbol americano. 
 Cabe destacar que ha mejorado en muchos aspectos, mientras que las cosas buenas de la anterior 
 edici&oacute; n siguen ah&iacute;. Lo mejor - El modo NFL Superstar
  - La visi&oacute; n del Quarterback y el Truck Stick
  - El apartado sonoro en general
  - Representa 
 fielmente la NFL Lo peor - Pocas novedades en cuanto a gr&aacute; ficos
  - En Espa&ntilde; a solo llega la versi&oacute; n americana 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dlsc3120
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 6, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  Ok ok ok gamespot you guys totally messed this one up, and I usually respect your review of games 
 but you are off the mark on this one. This is a great game guys! C'mon! I have not played a game 
 equal to it yet! Ok I realize its the only licensed NFL game out bla bla bla. The  
 high to grade. THe superstar mode makes you FEEL a part of the NFL. FOr the die-hard role players 
 the option to go CPU while your player is out of the game is GENIUS! Plus the playcalling being 
 done not by you, but by the coach! EA did a great job keeping the Madden game as sharp as ever, 
 no one else deserves the NFL license. If you don't like it, chances are you never played the sport 
 in real life.... can ya smell what Madden is cooking!?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: debusentel
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 2, 2006 1:11 am PT
Review:  What can I say ? This is just another great Madden game.
  
  If you have ever played another Madden game then catching on to this one will be easy. EA added 
 a few new features to this Madden , as they normally try to do with this great football franchise. 
 The new passing system they added is pretty good and a lot of people I know really like it. Surprisingly 
 , though , I do not really find it usefull. Guess thats just my play style.
  
  Another added feature is the NFL Superstar Mode. You create a player just drafted from college 
 basically and try to build him up after the NFL draft. You must find an agent and the agent will 
 help you get commercial and movie parts ect.. You get a webdesigner that makes you a fansite with 
 alot of info on it. Their are other minor things but all in all it's just playin football.
  
  One nice little added challenge to the gameis the player cards and trying to Unlock all of 
 them. Its fun when taking a break from the actual game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zim909
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 2, 2006 8:51 am PT
Review:  I. LIKE. FOOTBALL! I played madden 2003 for total of 400 hours, so I have some pretty good experience 
 with EA Sports' renditions of football. I got this game for my birthday last year, and completely 
 panicked, I thought that this would be a disaster.
  
  I played it for 500 hours, and many of you know how much football would be. I loved it! it has 
 an amazing franchise mode, that's even got a kind of owner's aspect that's been around since the 
 2004 rendition, you get to know the attendence and profit of your home games, and also to manage 
 the contracts and hire or fire coaches. It has a Superstar mode for those of you who like to have 
 yourself out on the field.
  
  The game itself and all-around is brilliant, and a good play for anybody who likes EA Sports.
 
  
  The gameplay: brilliant, the game runs well and it runs smoothly, it allows you to stay in the 
 action instead of just having the game constantly freeze up and make you lose all your data.
  
  The graphics: absolutely brilliant, hard to get much better in a football game.
  
  The 
 sound: love it again and again every day, new commentary, new songs, and better sound quality.
 
  
  I love this game, and you should too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peeger
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 4, 2006 7:19 pm PT
Review:  It has a bunch of ways to play this, such as single, online, franchise, or even create your own 
 player and get him drafted, get an agent, practice ect. You control his career. Well, my reciever, 
 in his first preseason game, had like 490 yard, 8 tds, 30 catches, ect. It was pretty pointless. 
 I mean, come on, these numbers are just rediculous. The rest of the league had numbers comparable 
 to real life, and my receiver could break every career record in my first year. Just stupid. By 
 the way, I am not very good at this game either. I played about 3/4 of the season with my team, 
 the Detriot Lions, who were undefeated. Not that I was even good on offense in that part of the 
 game, just my defense would sack the qb almost every play. The only time I was ever scored on was 
 when I was punted to, my punt returner fumbled the ball almost every time for no real reason and 
 the other team would always pick it up and score. I am guessing that was supposed to be some type 
 of equalizer to make the game closer, but it was just annoying. Graphics were pretty good, but 
 a bit buggy at times. Sound was good. It really seems like they just add junk to make the game 
 differant from the year before, but none of it really makes it a better game. Also, they try to 
 keep the game speed to match a realistic game, but the stats end up being so unrealistic. They 
 add a million plays but they are for not since you can find one or two good plays and run them 
 over and over and never be stopped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrgab
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 23, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  It was a typical Madden type game, gameplay was fun. The realism of contracts disputes is interesting. 
 For example, I had a holdout with a player that had year remaining on his contract. He wanted more 
 money and years, and got mad at the franchise and refused to sign with him or play, so had to release 
 him. Stupid part was, he signed with another team for LESS money than I was currently paying him.
 
  Only real annoyance in the game is the kicking game. So many times have I kicked off or attempted 
 a field goal for it to go WAY off because I missed the target meter by a tiny tiny bit.
  Also noticed when I chose a play and let the AI run the ball, his speed is much more than when 
 I manually control the player. Seems his speed burst last longer and is faster than the manual 
 key for speed burst.
  The superstar mode is somewhat interesting. Actually it just lets you play the game without controlling 
 the management stuff. There are neat stuff like website info about your character but nothing that 
 truly standout to make it so great.
  Anyhow, the franchise continues.
  
  Also ball spotting is messed up in game. You will carry the ball pass the first down marker but 
 they blow the whistle before and you do not get credit for the first down. As well as when they 
 spot the ball, they show the first down line with the ball ontop it or past it but yet its not 
 listed as a first down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthollycart
Rating: 7.1
Date: Feb 26, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  I first played Madden 06 on game cube at my friend's house. Before that, I had not played a video 
 game in years, and almost all of the video games I used to play were sports games. I enjoyed the 
 game on my friend's game cube, and I do not have a game cube so I decided I would just buy the 
 PC version of the game so I wouldn't have to spend money on a game cube just for one game. I can 
 do just about anything on my computer. 
  
  I was disappointed when I first started playing this game on the PC because the graphics are not 
 as good as on game cube, but I soon became adjusted to this minor detail and so the graphics to 
 me are still pretty good. 
  
  I feel like I have played this game enough to give a review. I have had this game for a couple 
 of weeks now and have been through many of the features, but not completely. 
  
  There are good and bad things about this game. I like the realism in the game; the fast pace that 
 makes you decide quickly just like a quarterback would have to in real life. You have to read blitzes, 
 and defensive sets, and you c an call audibles and change your receiver's route, which is great 
 and its not very hard to learn. 
  
  One thing I don't like about the game is that (at least for me) its kind of hard to control your 
 defensive player. I usually just call my defensive play and let the computer control my defensive 
 man because it does a better job than I do in most circumstances. Also, many times when you call 
 a passing play, and your receiver does a curl, when the pass comes to him he runs toward the line 
 of scrimmage instead of just planting his feet where he is, catch the ball and get the first down. 
 Because he is running the opposite way, you don't make the first down and lose a lot of yards. 
 
  
  I do not like the QB vision that this game has. I turn it off whenever I play because its too complicated 
 for me. I don't sit and play video games all day long. I have a family and don't have time to learn 
 something like that. It seems unnecessary and too difficult. By the time you switch your QB's vision, 
 its too late and you get sacked. I suppose it might be a good feature for the game expert that 
 is looking for a new challenge, but not for me. I hate the fact that you cannot play an online 
 game without having QB vision on. You should be able to turn it off in your settings for online 
 play. 
  
  The game announcers on the game are very stupid. At first it was cool, but then it gets old because 
 they say the same 5 lines over and over again. They also make the announcers where they don't even 
 know what they're talking about. They make so many mistakes! You can be on the first series in 
 your drive, and get a first down, and Al Michaels will say "That's the second time in the drive 
 he has got a first down, etc" when it was the 1st series, and only the first time he could have 
 even had it possilbe to get a first down. If you get an interception, and then fumble and the other 
 team gets the ball back on the same play, the announcer will say, "Now the offense will take over 
 after they got an interception" when they didn't even get an interception! They THREW an interception 
 and then fumbled. You can be down by 7 points with 5:00 remaining and Madden will say something 
 stupid like, "I think they're gonna keep going to the air, but it might be a little too late" or 
 even better is when he says the same statement when its an absolute blowout, with 10 seconds left 
 in the game. Obviously its too late, Madden. There are so many announcing errors on the game its 
 not even funny. 
  
  I am in the middle of a season for superstar mode. I created a quarterback and got drafted in the 
 3rd round by the Giants, and am the backup QB. Some things about the superstar mode that are stupid 
 are: 1) You cannot go to the gym to workout unless you have an agent that access to the gym. How 
 stupid is that? In real football, each team has their own gym. They don't have to have some kind 
 of special agent to give them gym access. That is very stupid. 2) You have to play practice sessions 
 to make your player better. This is not bad in itself, however the stupid part is, you run practice 
 plays and get points if you do well, but its not even my player I created in the practice session, 
 its the starting QB Manning. Also, you can pick what play you are running for offense and defense. 
 So all you have to do is set up in shotgun and run your receivers downfield, and choose goal line 
 defense, and you get a touchdown on every play, to build up your points. They could do a much better 
 job doing practice sessions (with your individual player) . 3) You cannot get a good agent (at least 
 I don't know how) in the beginning who has gym access, or other good attributes. I am still in 
 the learning process of this mode, but I don't find it very fun or challenging or interesting. 
 
  
  Another stupid thing about this game (I'm not sure how long it has been like this) is that when 
 you choose a history team (I. E. 49ers of 1989) the players do not have the correct jersey numbers. 
 I can see not having the names, but on the old madden games for Sega you at least had their jersey 
 numbers. You should be able to at least edit their jersey numbers and names and write in the correct 
 ones on your own. That would be a cool feature, but I don't believe you can do this. 
  
  Yet another bad thing about this game is punt returns. This only happens on the PC version, because 
 it doesn't happen on gamecube. This is a very flawed feature on the PC version of this game. When 
 you are returning a punt, 95 % of the time you don't get any blocking for your returner. So what 
 you have to do every time you are returning a punt is, choose to control your punt returner, and 
 then call for a fair catch (button 4) , because if you don't do that, he will catch it and then 
 immediately get blasted by the other team and he will fumble. So there is basically no chance of 
 returning a punt, except for a rare time when you get decent blocking, which doesn't happen often. 
 
  
  But the game is still pretty good. You can to run the right strategy to win the game. You have 
 to keep the defense on their toes so they don't know what play you're calling. That is fun and 
 realistic. I like how there are random fumbles and penalties beyond your control, just like in 
 real life. Also, it is cool how the ref can make the wrong call and you can challenge it and overturn 
 the call. I like how the weather affects how you play. I like how there are injuries and fatigue, 
 etc. There is a lot of cool stuff in the game like that. 
  
  So overall the game is good, but far from excellent. There is a lot of work that needs to be done 
 to make the game better. I think that EA should listen to its gamers and make the necessary corrections 
 to make the next version of the game one that you can hardly criticize. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: babke
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 31, 2006 2:26 am PT
Review:  Being a long time fan of EA Sports Madden Series gives me a lot of thrills as the release date 
 gets closer for new Madden NFL games, year after year. But every year I find myself a bit disappointed. 
 Why? Read on.
  
  My first impression for a lot of the last releases (of course including this one) is that the menu 
 front end is a "bit" tweaked but it ultimately leads to the very familiar layout of previous releases. 
 
  
  However the first disappointment comes after realising that graphics have for the most part remained 
 the same as i the 2005 release. Most of the post-game celebrations are in the game since Madden 
 2003 or 2004? I mean that is a little bit negligent wouldn't you say.
  
  Then again a simple tweak of adding a QB Vision Cone, of which you've all heard about gives a whole 
 different approach to the game. All of a sudden the way you play the game changes. And I really 
 enjoy playing it. A lot of people will, and do, say that the addition of the Vision Cone is too 
 hard. It is worth it for me. It takes time to master, that is true, but it ads a bit of realism 
 for the most important offensive position in the modern football.
  
  There is also a welcome addition of Truck Stick and a more sophisticated precision passing which 
 is also a step in the right direction.
  
  Audio, well if your heard one, you've heard them all.... It's the same, the commentary is boringly 
 the same since 2003 and the changes are much needed.
  
  Yes there's the addition of the superstar mode. Something a lot of people will greet because it 
 adds a new dimension of playing, and especially personalizing your Madden experience. In it you 
 will create a superstar based on the randomly chosen parents attributes (a lot of clicks on the 
 generate button will get you a good start) and lead him through the interviews, training, draft, 
 rookie season and perhaps the hall of fame. I was eager to see this aspect of the game and can 
 admit started to play it immediately.
  
  Although it's good, after a while the necessity to play training sessions before each league game 
 (and not only one) started being tiresome and drew me away. I've played one-and-a-half season and 
 never played it since (even though i play Franchise regularly) . So, it is a good idea i must say 
 but at this stage it still requires a lot of polish. 
  
  What do you say about a game like this? A lot of people, including myself, will buy and play the 
 game with every new iteration because we are hooked. We are fans in the true meaning of the word. 
 If you get on the wagon of playing Maddens regularly, you will never stop. 
  
  If you don't play it with every release, give it a try. The game is definitely worth playing and 
 you'll not have the doom of comparing it with all the previous releases, as lof of us who play 
 it more than regularly do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EscoDaddy14
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 22, 2006 5:56 pm PT
Review:  So here comes Madden 2006, coming at you at full steam and ready to.... oh wait, its the same as 
 all the other Maddens. I have played Madden 2004 and some of 05, and 06 feels no different. Personally 
 its a decent series at best, and these pointless features just leave you dazed and confused.
  
  The graphics are a minor improvement from the others. The players dont look as freakishly built 
 as they were in 05, so that was a plus. The detail to the uniforms and overall models are pretty 
 good. 
  
  The sound, well its generic announcers and its same ol same ol, yawn. The hits and such are fun 
 to hear.
  
  The controls are were Madden sees some of its madness. Well some of the features are so complicated 
 to use, you shouldn't bother. I just stiuck to pressing the WR buttons, sprint, spin, and tackle. 
 If you stick to those controls you will be fine.
  
  Overall its a good replacement for ESPN or Madden 05, but make sure you get it on sale. Also make 
 sure you have a gamepad, because it makes it feel truly great when you use a pad such as the 360 
 pad. Also do youself a favor and turn off QB vision, its pointless, because Im not blind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeR04U
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 28, 2005 2:40 am PT
Review:  John Madden Football has been around for ages. Starting with the revolutionary console, the SNES, 
 football freaks anticipate their yearly release of Madden. While Madden 99 broke grounds in graphics 
 and gameplay, the franchise took a dive with the 2000 and 2001 versions. Madden quickly rebounded 
 and in 2003, was a candidate for our very own Gamespot's, Game of the Year. This year EA Sports 
 made an interesting move by acquiring the sole rights to use NFL players' names in their games, 
 ultimately ending ESPN 2K series. The big question that many people have had, is now that EA Sports 
 owns the NFLPA license, what exactly have they done with it?
  
  Madden 2006 offers a lot of what last year did, which is not necessarily a bad thing. All 32 teams 
 are back in force, complete with full rosters, coaching staffs, and the offseason. Users have the 
 option to start their own franchise, or simply hop in a single game and play against the computer. 
 In addition, many small features such as the 2-minute drill, and situation make appearances once 
 again. Madden has traditionally been known for solid gameplay and it's wonderful franchise and 
 season modes. Every year Madden incorporates new elements to these fan favorites and this year 
 is no different. 
  
  In Madden 2006 users have a new option called Superstar mode. In this particular mode, the user 
 can incorporate himself into the game and pretend they are playing in the NFL. You start by choosing 
 parents, which ultimately determines what kind of a position you would play. You then go through 
 training camp and become part of the draft and play for a team. Ultimately, that's about it. While 
 you have to pay attention to fans and pay attention to contract issue for yourself, there's not 
 much more to it. Simply plop yourself in and away you go. It's an interesting feature, but ultimately 
 users are going to ignore it. Because you can't choose your parents, race, weight, height, or any 
 vital information that characterizes you, you'll sit and the computer screen generating random 
 parents until finally you get one you like. This is too tedious. 
  
  While the Superstar mode is an interesting concept, it was thrown in last minute to try and tide 
 players over. It falls way short of anything substantial though and users will typically find themselves 
 sticking to franchise mode. Fortunately users can still create players in franchise mode and run 
 them through the season anyway. 
  
  The other feature in Madden 2006 that affects gameplay is the truck stick, and QB vision. The truck 
 stick is a control that when pressed, your player running the ball will try to knock down or shake 
 off a defensive opponent to make a break down field. It's an interesting feature, but the timing 
 and rarity of it actually happening are rather disappointing. 
  
  The QB vision is a feature that most people will find rather displeasing. QB vision is an effect 
 that triggers when your QB has the football. Generally in the NFL when a QB looks a certain way 
 the defense gets pulled in that direction. In Madden 2006, the same principle holds. When your 
 QB drops back a light vision shaped cone appears on the field. You can then cycle that cone between 
 WRs, thus pulling defenders away/near etc. It's an interesting feature but there are two major 
 flaws: 1) Generally on higher difficulties defenses are so quick that you don't have a lot of time 
 to really cycle between WRs, and 2) QBs with low ratings that affect the cone have VERY difficult 
 times as they have to cycle more frequently. Fortunately, this option can be turned off, and you 
 can play the QB the exact same way as Madden 05. 
  
  While the cone and superstar mode were interesting additions, there are many other areas that game 
 needed touching on before adding more. Graphically Madden 06 is no different from 04 or 05. In 
 fact, in some situations the game is even worse, as character models appear very blocky. Madden 
 06 is a port from it's console counterparts, so the game generally needs a higher performance machine 
 than normal. The menus on low end machines (that still meet the reqs) will run very slow, and there 
 is no simple way to cycle through replays without returning to the main screen. While the models 
 are a little rough, players can expect full field effects such as rain, footprints, and wear and 
 tear of the field. There is some wear on the jerseys, but even in an outdoor game in the rain, 
 the players look as if mom told them to play clean. 
  
  The sound in Madden 06 is the biggest downfall. Again we're treated to EA Trax. The music in the 
 menus is not bad, but can get quite annoying. However; it does have a football theme to it, and 
 can be turned off. Tony Bruno makes a radio talkshow appearance in franchise mode where he pretends 
 to call up fans and talk to them about the past weeks games. It's a nice but completely useless 
 feature. After a while you'll want to shut Tony up, but unfortunately there is no such way to do 
 so. 
  
  Aside from menu and Bruno, the actual in game announcing is terrible. The same Madden commentary 
 is recycled from 05 (probably 04, and 03, and 02... etc.) . Not only is it old and tiring, but it's 
 glitched. You may be playing the Vikings and Titans, and he'll comment about the Patriots and how 
 they've done well all day. Often he'll just mumble about something completely irrelevant as to 
 what's going on. Finally, while the game is titled Madden, he should not speak at every game you're 
 playing for franchise/superstar. Madden and Al Michaels speak every Sunday or Monday football night. 
 They don't follow the Arizona Cardinals around every game. In any event, Madden and Michaels do, 
 and you'll hear their awful commentary the whole time.
  
  Gameplay Madden is getting pretty bad and makes what I call 'The Guaranteed Plays' appearance again. 
 First off, EA Sports really botched the punt returning this year. Almost 90% of the time you'll 
 call a fair catch because 2-3 guys stand stupidly looking at your punt returner instead of blocking. 
 This results in either 1) You catch it somehow and get away luckily, 2) It's a deep punt so the 
 defenders can't get to you in time, 3) Get hit and fumble. You don't have much of a choice but 
 to fair catch. Furthermore, the stats in some games get ridiculous on any difficulty level. On 
 All-Pro or All-Madden your O-lineman will record around 15-20 pancakes. Thus by week 4-5 they lead 
 the entire pancake category. It's extremely easy to limit the computer's offense to zero points 
 in the highest difficulties. Simple zone coverages will result in Interceptions or incomplete passes. 
 The running game for the computer is a joke, as quarter defenses can still stop it with ease even 
 with AI controls turned up. 
  
  Aside from punt, and stat issues, Madden has guaranteed plays, and they have since 03 I beileve. 
 There are certain plays in Madden that are GUARANTEED to pick up x amount of yards, or y amount 
 of sacks. Examples include: HB Slam, PA Rollout, Comeback routes (hot route, WR select, press down) , 
 and others. You can easily push the score up to any amount you please by using these plays over 
 and over. 
  
  Obviously Madden has many issues, but they don't stop here. Many of the jerseys (colors, numbers, 
 players) are incorrect. The NFL Draft again comes before the Free Agency signing (which in the 
 NFL is incorrect) , one good season in franchise (13-3, 14-2 record + superbowl) will turn every 
 single one of your starters into pro bowl calibur players. You cannot play defensive players on 
 offense. We have seen Warren Sapp, Mike Vrabel, Deion Sanders, etc. play offensively as WRs, but 
 you can forget that here. At one point Madden did allow this feature (I believe in 2004) but it 
 has been discarded. The Challenges are fun to use where you can challenge the refs ruling on the 
 field, but the computer always knows when to challenge, and 50% of the time even after you challenge 
 the computer still screws up the call. There are so many small errors and glitches with Madden 
 06 it's hard to pinpoint just one. 
  
  Online play is not that terrible, but it's pretty desolate these days. Regulars play and have matches, 
 but you're not going to find a Unreal Tournament, Counter Strike type lobby. Online play is usually 
 laggy for one party which results in difficult precision passing and kicks. Ultimately it becomes 
 an offensive slug fest as one user takes advantage of another one frantically smashing the buttons 
 thus making their defenders fall. 
  
  Unfortunately Madden 2006 has failed to impress a majority of the NFL Gamers population. The glitches, 
 recycled gameplay, and aging franchise is starting to show. Sadly, it's all the gamers can expect 
 for the next few years. Hopefully EA can clean up it's act and work on improving what Madden was 
 at one point, very good at (balanced gameplay, solid technical aspects, and good franchise modes) . 
 Otherwise EA Sports might find that buying the license itself, wasn't that useful. 
  
  ZeR0's Verdict: Go buy Madden 05, it's twice as cheap. Check out www. football-freaks. com for roster 
 updates and editors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DCVR
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 21, 2005 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Great job madden another awesome game I have stayed up all night playing this game, proof enough 
 that its another good buy. Love the new settings and gameplay options again another step up from 
 madden 2005. Cant wait to keep searching through the game and finding all the other great things 
 about football. Being from New Zealand it is not big at all here but even with that dissapointment 
 it is growing fast, mainly from these games nearly half my school has at least one from the series. 
 The game is not a let down, or a dissapointment the game is awesome so dont put a good thing down, 
 its great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artbyshan
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 17, 2005 5:57 pm PT
Review:  My complaint against this game is mostly the new features (Vision control and precision passing) . 
 With the vision control, you must press either a button or joystick to turn the quarterbacks head. 
 If playing with an average or below average quarterback, the field of vision is small. If your 
 primary receiver is covered, you don't have enough time to press the buttons to throw to another 
 receiver. It's not like the older versions in which you could simply press the corresponding receiver's 
 number/letter/symbol to throw. If you don't use the vision control's buttons first, the quarterback 
 is very likely to throw up a wounded duck. I think this feature should be removed entirely from 
 a newer version. What next? Are they going to have buttons to control the quarterbacks feet. Ridiculous.
 
  Secondly, my complaint is with the precision passing feature. Even though I like this feature. 
 My complaint is if you are using the directional buttons to escape a blitz or strong pass rush. 
 If you throw on the run, the same button will control the type of pass that is thown. For example: 
 If you are running backwards (D Pad is pressed down) , then when you throw, the ball will be low. 
 Again, I like the idea of high and low passes, but it would be great if EA could iron the kinks 
 at of this scenario. 
  Overall, I think the graphics and sound are pretty much the same (Which is good) . The vision control 
 is too much over the top. The precision passing feature needs a little work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peter150
Rating: 4.2
Date: Nov 2, 2005 12:43 pm PT
Review:  I am a long time follower of the Madden series. There were some nice additions in gameplay, QB 
 vision, presicion passing, etc but there are some serious gameplay issues that have not been addressed.
 
  
  Punt returns are completely fouled up. Most times the players blocking will simply turn and face 
 the punt returner letting the defenders streak upfield. This will result in either a fair catch, 
 a gain of 0-3 yds or a fumble as the punt returner is hammered.
  
  Online play has several issues yet to be addressed as well. Approximately 30% of players cannot 
 host a game. Certain formations show your opponent if you are going to run or pass. There is rampant 
 cheating including causing the game to be disconnected (called syncing ) resulting in a loss for 
 you and a win to the cheat
  
  The sim engine in franchise mode for 2006 is terrible. I cannot for the life of me understand how 
 this has been destroyed. 
  
  Fatigue does not work when simming (Simming being the simulation of games in franchise mode, ie 
 the CPU v CPU games) 
  Coaches RB slider does not work when simming
  Coaches Offensive and Defensive aggressiveness sliders do not work when simming
  Coaches pass/run 
 sliders are so far out of kilter that on default settings an absurd number of RB's rush for over 
 2000 yds.
  
  How is it that these features worked in earlier versions yet do not work now? 
  
  Despite frequent 
 requests from the community for a patch, (and some of these problems with the sim engine must be 
 a relatively easy fix, after all they worked before!) we have todate received.... nothing. 
  
  Not even a roster update. 
  
  Yet other platforms have them for 2006. 
  
  Not even 
 confirmation that a patch is being worked on! 
  
  Thats not appalling customer service... thats nonexistant customer service. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: noble99
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 30, 2005 5:47 am PT
Review:  i feel that madden 06 is one of the greatest sport games of all time.... I think the perssion pasing 
 in this game helps the game have more difficult then just throwing the ball up and hoping that 
 a randy moss or a terral owens will catch the ball. Now you actully need a lilttle bit of skill. 
 If you dont like the perssion passing you can turn it off. 
  
  I have also seen the preview for xbox 360 madden 06 and it looks even better then i thought could 
 even happen 
  
  so i am telling you if u dont own this game go out as soon as u have 50 dollars and buy it or play 
 it at a freinds house it is greatttt 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeherr
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 23, 2005 4:56 pm PT
Review:  If you own Madden 05, wait for 06 to arrive at $9.99 next year in the bargain bin. The main reason 
 to own 06 is for the updated rosters, and the Precision passing feature. I found that I enjoy the 
 Precision passing, simply because it adds another level of realism to the game. I did find my first 
 couple of games that I was getting sacked and throwing a lot of incomplete passes - but got better 
 the more I used it. You definitely get more of a feel for what real QB's must go through in reading 
 the defense, and then having to control where you look - it adds a more frantic feel to the game 
 - especially if you aren't using one of the top rated QBs. The running game feels a little more 
 balanced this year - not getting overly stuffed nor overly wide open running. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stockmosh
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 20, 2005 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Since 1999, Madden has been a major player in the field of football gaming. While imitators and 
 rivals have existed before that year, and have since then, Madden has found a way to rise above 
 the competition and place itself at the pinnicle of the football sims. Now that the game has no 
 competition, I would say that Madden has decided to rest on its laurels - which, for us gamers, 
 results in the less than top quality Madden 06.
  
  As PC gamers, we get no love when it comes to most games. We get straight ports, graphics and all, 
 and our more ample power is left to sit idle, running background tasks instead of pushing the pixels 
 that could be. EA has been fairly good to PC gamers, though - we've had the ability to have more 
 of a say as to certain options and configurations that are implemented. EA must've looked at this 
 before shipping Madden 06 and said "Hmmmm. Maybe we've been too accomidating to these PC'ers." 
 What we have here is a stripped model - something that could have been a Ferrari, but instead is 
 built about as solid as a Kia.
  
  Madden 06 discards direct custom team support for PC. There is still a very fickle joypad configuration. 
 And, lo and behold, I can crank up all options on my mediochre system and still push the game along 
 at full frames, which is good, but the end result is not as good as I would have liked.
  
  Gameplay itself is solid, as we have to expect. But, I've begun to dispise the multitude of niche 
 features that are implemented. Between playmakers, hot routes, truck sticks, man lock, formation 
 shifts, slide protection, and the ever ballyhooed yet cumbersome Quarterback vision feature, a 
 player now has to have the nimble fingers of an 80 word a minute typer to utilize these all effectively. 
 Plus, too many of these features are offensively slanted, leaving those players who are not offensively 
 minded in play stunted as to their playcalling. One game I played, for instance, had me playing 
 up on every play, even as the Patriots Defense, because the game makes any short play (screen, 
 short hook routes, outside rushes) a 5 or 6 yard play under 99% of situations. Even bringing 8 
 on an obvious rushing play was unable multiple times to stop a simple draw. I don't play on lower 
 difficulties, so I don't know what the situations are at Rookie or Pro, but these deficiencies 
 at All-Pro have forced me to tweak sliders more than I should have to in order to balance the game 
 out.
  
  The new Superstar mode is overhyped, in my opinion, and requires too much of an investment of time 
 to get the most out of it. PC'ers still don't have an NCAA iteration to import Heisman winners 
 or Draft Classes from, so creating a mediochre player is the only option. Plus, there is too much 
 monotony in the early going, which could turn off many gamers. Don't forget the unnecessary load 
 times on the PC - they really slow down progress in this mode to a grinding halt at times.
  
  Overall, Madden 06 is the latest, but not greatest, version of a great franchise that, hopefully, 
 can turn it around. In football terms, this is a 9-7 game, with a first round exit from the playoffs 
 - not the Super Bowl winning Juggernaut the series is known to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MX125Fire
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 19, 2005 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Each new birthday that comes along for me another Madden game arrives, and that is just fine with 
 me. I don't expect more in terms of gameplay each year... since it is a sports title. You can't 
 revolutionize a game that is based off of a sport really. Other genres are able to because they 
 aren't based on something in the real world which is governed by rules so-to-speak. Sports games 
 in general (unless they are arcade-type games like the Street series by EA) don't bring much but 
 the basics. They can add things such as this years "Superstar" mode, but as for when you're playing 
 the game on the virtual field, it's basically down to them making better graphics, character models, 
 up-to-date rosters, great artificial intelligence, etc. Once again, I believe EA and the Madden 
 series has pulled it off one more year. I wouldn't buy another football title if there was one, 
 and don't ever plan on it unless they bring the NCAA series to the PC.
  One more thing; for those of you who enjoyed the ESPN/2k games series, I'm sorry for your loss, 
 but your better off for it... except for maybe the cost, and I understand your frustration in that 
 department. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkullLeader00
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 10, 2005 2:11 am PT
Review:  I do it every year. I become another statistical moron. I buy Madden 01 02 03 04 and on and on 
 and on. Why? because there are no other good football games out there on PC!! This time i waited 
 till it was cheaper but still it doesn't excuse the wasteful stupidity of buying this game.
  
  Don't get me wrong this game is fine, but you could use 35 dollars for a better cause then 
 to buy this game. You can say that for anything i guess but i just have to say that this game is 
 uninspiring. Its fun here and there but its no better then the PS or Xbox platform. Worst of all 
 i think its even worse! I was so excited to build my own team and stadium, only to find out that 
 on the PC version you can't play franchise mode with a created team. WHY THE HECK MAKE THAT AN 
 OPTION THEN?????
  
  anyways this game is not even worth telling you why i don't enjoy it anymore.
  i give it a lousy 
 7!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vfibsux
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 23, 2005 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Madden PC fans have long been victims of the lack of competition EA has experienced the past few 
 years when it comes to football sims. Because of this we have been handed virtually the same game 
 again and again with a few new interface and AI tweaks but not much beyond that. 
  This year however some pretty significant changes have been made to the passing game among other 
 things. First we have precision passing where you can put the ball where you want and the receiver 
 will go get it. This is an invaluable tool and a long time coming. The other passing change is 
 QB vision. While it seems to be a pain to some players the concept makes sense. You know have a 
 field of vision to move around and throwing into this field will make your passes more accurate. 
 The higher the awareness of the QB, the bigger the field cone. This makes awareness for the player 
 controlled QB actually mean something now. 
  Also added is an offensive version of the hitstick which allows you to mow over defenders, but 
 you have a higher risk of fumbling.
  
  The most notable new feature in the game is Superstar mode. In this mode you create a draftable 
 rookie and begin the life of an NFL superstar. First you create the player through appearance, 
 position, parents, etc. You then sit back and wait to be drafted. You check daily emails, voice 
 messages, websites, etc. You attend training camp and practice where you earn points for making 
 plays. It is a new way to play through a franchise and rather rewarding in my opinion. 
  
  In the end despite the changes the game still is highly comparable to Madden 2005, which is not 
 a bad thing, but the changes do make it worth taking a spin if you are a fan of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jemorjem
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 21, 2005 7:11 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing Madden on the PC since Madden 97 came out. I have since owned Madden 99, Madden 
 2001, and Madden 2003. Sense a pattern. Yes, I bought a new Madden game every other year. But Madden 
 2003 was a brilliant game, near perfection, so I delayed buying my next Madden game until Madden 
 06 came out.
  I am saying this because I am reviewing Madden 06 not in comparison to 2005's version, but to 2003's 
 version- with all the upgrades in between. So lets get on with the review!
  The big new feature in Madden 06 is the QB Vision Cone and Precision Passing. I can say that even 
 using a keyboard and NOT a Dual Analog Controller (which I am using now, but I'll review the game 
 using the keyboard controls) , that these features are effective, easy to use, and fun. Yes, unlike 
 other PC sports games, the keyboard configuration is good! All the features, including the hit 
 and truck sticks, can be used on the keyboard. With either the keyboard or a game controller, the 
 new features are NOT HARD and VERY FUN. Using QB Vision and precision was actually quite simple. 
 To throw, let's say, to receiver 'F' using the keyboard, you must push 'g' and 'f' to focus your 
 vision cone on the receiver, then 'f' and an arrow key to determine precision passing. Translate 
 that to your game controller if you will, but the point is, while pressing four buttons to throw 
 may seem hard, it's actually very easy. It just takes the ability to spot you WR's open quickly 
 and be in a good position to throw to them (i. e not scrambling to the right of the field then trying 
 to throw to a WR wide left, because it shouldn't be able to happen) . Also, at least in Rookie and 
 Pro modes, throwing outside your vision cone is not the 'kiss of death'. Sometimes youll throw 
 a half decent ball on target, other times you'll miss by a good seven yards. 
  Precision Passing is also a very simple addition to Madden 06, but may really change the passing 
 game more than QB vision. Precision Passing allows the QB to throw the ball to the receiver either 
 high or low, to his left or to his right. This allows you to throw to a receiver on his left side 
 if he has, let's say, a cornerback covering him on his right. Precision passing, along with QB 
 vision, makes Madden 06's passing game more cerebral than ever before. No more heaving the ball 
 downfield mindlessly, and frankly, I'm glad I can't do that anymore.
  The final addition to on-field game play is the truck stick. The truck stick, which is the offensive 
 version of the hit stick, really opens up the running game by allowing larger running backs the 
 ability to basically ram defenders into the ground. This makes running much more powerful than 
 any other madden so far. In Madden 2003, a typical game I played would have me throwing for 400 
 yards and rushing for maybe 30 yards. Now, in Madden 06, the passing and rushing games have really 
 been balanced out. Very Good.
  The new superstar mode is not broken, but it is not the solid experience it could have been. It's 
 a feature that is good in concept, yet its execution is vague and confusing. The problem is that 
 you have too much control over the team you're on. It's more like a mini franchise mode with emphasis 
 on one player than just a simulation of this one player's nfl journey. Frankly, it's unacceptable 
 that I can rearrange the team's roster in order to become the starter, especially when I don't 
 deserve it.
  In terms of graphics, Madden 06 looks very similar to 2003 in many ways. Player models look very 
 similar in quality, although their uniforms all shine and have much more texture to them. The animations 
 and player clipping are all much improved, as is the frame rate. Madden 06 has a smooth frame rate, 
 even when running on my laptop. Many of the faces, however, look unusual, maybe even cartoonish. 
 Unlike the Gamespot review, I have seen no instances of "goofy texture and player model pop-in 
 issues" in the game. The pc version is far crisper looking on than the consoles and should be called 
 the best looking version of 06.
  Sound is a mixed bag in Madden 06. Much of the commentary seems pulled right from Madden 2003, 
 and unfortunately, it hasn't improved with time. However Madden 06 should be commended for the 
 sheer amount of audio in this game both on and off the field.
  Whether much of this game, such as the franchise mode, was pulled right from Madden 05 is not a 
 concern to me. Since 2003 was the last Madden game I played, it's all new to me. Franchise mode 
 is deep, the on field controls are rich and powerful, and the game is now better than ever.
  I believe that the QB Vision and Precision passing is enough to warrant an upgrade from Madden 
 2005 -- but if you don't own last years game, drop what you're doing and run out and buy this one 
 right now!
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
