-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Made Man
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/interviewwithamademan/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The guy who voices Joey does a good job.
 A surprisingly decent (albeit limited) licensed soundtrack.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gameplay is an awkward, frustrating mess.
 graphics can get downright painful to look at.
 Enemies are an interesting mixture of stump dumb and sniper-quality shooters.
 Storyline is severely disjointed.
 crash bugs, audio bugs, and graphical bugs.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 14, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2.8
Critic Score: 4.1, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 5.2, 240 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Aspyr
Developer: Silverback Ent.
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Apr 23, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
After a few hours with Made Man, you'll be begging for someone to put two in the back of your head. 
 

  Rarely has an action game squandered such a solid concept as Aspyr and Silverback Studios' Made 
 Man has. Gangland shooters should be a pretty easy thing to put together at this point, yet Made 
 Man is proof positive that with the right amount of indifference and general disdain for the game-buying 
 public, you can still make complete dreck out of a seemingly foolproof concept. The weirdest thing 
 is that by all accounts, Made Man shouldn't have ever come out. This is one of the last few games 
 now-defunct publisher Acclaim had in the pipes when it went under a few years back. Now Aspyr has 
 resurrected its unfinished corpse, yet apparently it didn't bother to have anyone fix it up beyond 
 what was necessary to make the game install and load up. From its buggy, intensely frustrating 
 gameplay to its near-absent production values, Made Man is a flat-out mess across every category. 

          Shooting brain-dead mafia thugs while listening to an inordinate amount of heavily accented 
 cursing -- yep, that's Made Man in a nutshell.     

  Made Man tells the story of Joey Verola, a longtime Mafia crony who's on the verge of being "made." 
 Most of the story is a series of flashbacks that Joey recants to a friend while they drive through 
 New York. What, exactly, the whole plot is actually about is never terribly clear. The game jumps 
 around a lot, and the cutscenes aren't scripted well enough to properly extrapolate on what's going 
 down. One minute you're hijacking a truck in North Carolina; the next you're in the middle of the 
 Vietnam War. The in-between bits of narration try to set all this up into an overarching tale of 
 gold buried in a coffin and rival families in cahoots with federal agents to take you down, but 
 it's all very disjointed and, after a while, insufferable. The lone positive is that Joey is voiced 
 by a solid actor who seems to be channeling  Goodfellas -era Ray Liotta at times, and he sells 
 the character as best he can. But every other actor hams it up so badly, and the plot itself is 
 so scattered and unintelligible, that the whole thing is downgraded to somewhere between  Godfather 
 III  and  Corky Romano  in the lexicon of mob fiction.  

  Even if the plot were better, odds are you wouldn't be able to put up with Made Man's awful gameplay 
 long enough to really invest yourself in it. It all begins with the shooting controls, which were 
  in the earlier-released PlayStation 2 version of the game. In the 
 PC version, controlling the aiming reticle with the mouse doesn't drag as much as it did when using 
 the PS2 controller's analog stick (conversely, there's no controller support at all in this version) , 
 so it is a good bit easier to hit targets while moving. Still, it's entirely too easy to get shot 
 to pieces while fiddling with the zoom toggle to get a proper aim on anything.  

  To counteract this, you'll want to use cover as often as you can -- though the fact that the cover 
 mechanics border on broken kind of negates the usefulness of this feature. All you need to do is 
 walk up to a spot that looks as if you could duck behind it, like a wall or a box, and press the 
 designated button. Problem is, sometimes that just doesn't register, and you stand there like an 
 idiot while bullets riddle your dopey-looking self. When it does register, there are some cover 
 areas that you can still get shot behind, even though it looks like your whole body is covered. 
 Even more obnoxious, you have to peer out from cover to get any kind of target on your enemies, 
 and the second you do so, they pounce and start firing away at your peeking-out head. And for the 
 game's final trick, sometimes you can't get the targeting reticle out far enough to even hit anything. 
 It's as if it just gets stuck in one spot, and won't move far enough out to shoot anything other 
 than the box you're sitting behind.  

  The really hilarious thing about all this is that enemies aren't even that smart. They're all crackerjack 
 shots, but they also tend to stand in plain sight. The ones who do use cover tend not to shoot 
 that much, meaning you can just take as long as you like to pick them off when they peer out from 
 time to time. And then there are the enemies who just stand idly behind walls, doing nothing as 
 you blast at them from two feet away.  

  Of course, when enemies travel in the kind of numbers that they do in Made Man, and have the innate 
 ability to hone in on the teensiest part of your exposed body and shoot it to death very, very 
 quickly, it really doesn't make much difference if you're a dunce or a Rhodes scholar. Most of 
 the game's missions just revolve around getting from point A to point B while killing everyone 
 in between, and often there's quite a bit to kill. So many bullets and such clunky aiming and shooting 
 mechanics conspire to make the gameplay little more than a constant frustration. The game tries 
 to throw a few curveballs in with a "kill rush" feature that slows down time temporarily and leads 
 to you getting shot slightly less frequently, and a "retort kill," where some not-quite-dead enemy 
 says something insulting to you, and then you stand over them and execute them while uttering some 
 painful quip back to them (doing this refills your health gauge, for some reason) . Not only do 
 the execution moves look lame (and sometimes broken, as Joey won't even be facing the guy he's 
 killing) , but they don't pop up often enough to be all that useful.  

  Couple the infuriating shooting sequences with some abysmal stealth bits, and you pretty much get 
 a game that's no fun to play at all. That the game isn't longer than six or seven hours is almost 
 merciful, though in real time, it'll take you a lot longer than that to get through it, as you'll 
 find yourself replaying dozens of sequences again and again and again. Perhaps if the game had 
 a better checkpoint system or any sort of autosave functionality, that might not be such an issue, 
 but that's not the case. You'll also want to be diligent about saving on your own, as the game 
 does occasionally lock up and force you to reboot. Or, you know, you could just not play it. That'd 
 probably be better for all involved.  

          Wait, five minutes ago I was smuggling cigarettes out of North Carolina, and now I'm in 
 Vietnam? What in the blue blazes is going on with this game?     

  Even more horrific than the gameplay is the presentation. At times, Made Man looks like a game 
 made for the original PlayStation, and even when it manages to claw its way up to something that 
 looks marginally close to modern, it still lines the bottom of the barrel with its hideous-looking 
 textures, atrocious animations, and zombielike character models. At least the PC version looks 
 crisper than the PS2 version did, and the frame rate is far less erratic, but it's still a poor 
 looking game all around. The audio is even worse than the graphics, mostly because of the editing. 
 Joey's voice acting, in-game sound effects, and the licensed soundtrack (yes, they actually went 
 and got licensed songs for this pile of junk, including stuff from artists like UNKLE, Bachman 
 Turner Overdrive, and Martha Reeves and the Vandellas) are all pretty solid, but the audio mix 
 is so wildly inconsistent and periodically busted that it's impossible to enjoy any of it. Sometimes 
 dialogue starts skipping loudly, characters start talking over one another for long stretches, 
 and any time voice over narration pops up in-game, the music just cuts out altogether.  

  If you painstakingly dig through Made Man's seemingly endless onslaught of poor design decisions 
 and ugly problems, you might be able to spot a few things that come across as legitimately interesting 
 or entertaining. But it's just not worth sifting through so much garbage to get to a few fleeting 
 moments of fun, especially when dozens upon dozens of games do this formula loads better than Made 
 Man does. Made Man was all set to be canceled once, and it should have stayed that way. Don't play 
 this game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: blizzardlion
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 5:44 am PT
Review:  First of all, Made Man was supposedly to be released in 2004 but the game discontinued when Acclaim 
 ceased and therefore its release data was canceled. Afterwards, the project was again started by 
 Acclaim former crew and then it was released in 2007.
  
  Made Man, this game has one of the best story lines ever, it is so well done and in the game it 
 fits perfectly. The game's storyline is certainly a great aspect of Made Man. The game consists 
 of Joey Verola talking with a friend in a car about his life, the game storyline starts great, 
 continues great and finishes great. The game uses flashbacks such as Vietnam era, so well done. 
 I was amazed the way they made the flash backs occur with the storyline. Pretty well done.
  
  The gameplay of Made Man is rather simple, it tends to be a shoot anything that moves game. 
 In the game you can use an ability Kill Rush which consists as the name suggests killing many enemies. 
 Also there is a feature which is an animation to kill a dying enemy, where the screen splits into 
 two and you see Joey Verola kill the dying joe with one single bullet. The game offers a cover 
 system, its very useful and judging by 2004 it would have been original, innovative and great. 
 Controls were good, camera movement was also good, simple and fine.
  
  The graphics for 2004 were fine, nothing that good nothing that bad, but for a 2007 the graphics 
 weren't even a competition.
  
  The sound of the game was not bad, the voice acting during the cutscenes was great but during gameplay 
 it felt a little bit fake and awkward. The game offers good weapon sound and good explosion sounds. 
 
  
  The A. I. of the game could have been much better, the enemies tend to just stand and shoot at you, 
 they move around but nothing that fancy. But again this game was circa 2004 so it was not that 
 bad.
  
  Closing Comments:
  
  Remarkable game which would have been great in 2004. Sadly being released in 2007, with the competition 
 and all, led the game to a downfall. At least Silverback Ent. did not hide this gem, and in my 
 opinion they made a smart move in continuing the game.. Made Man deserved it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjp15
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 28, 2009 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Made Man casts you as Joey verola. The game tells the story of Joey verola through flashbacks as 
 you talk to another kid trying to climb the ranks of the family. 
  
  The game chronicles your rise in the ranks of the family and even sends you to the jungles of Vietnam. 
 The game does an okay job of telling the story, although the story itself is nothing to write home 
 about. Although it is cool to see where you connected with the family in Vietnam.
  
  The game play is pretty basic, it plays much like the original Max Payne (altough this game is not 
 nearly as good as Max Payne) . You have a variety of weapons at your disposal including a sword, 
 which is kind of cool. You also have something called "kill rush" which is essentially bullet time, 
 although this is kind of useless considering that once you get it you have probably killed the 
 majority of the enemies in the level. It also has a terrible cover mechanic which is essentially 
 useless. You simply run into a wall to cling to it, which isn't the bad part, the bad part is when 
 you try to shoot from cover and end up leaning into the wall and shooting it. I stopped using the 
 cover mechanic after the first level.
  
  The music is actually quite good with decent Voice acting and some good music, although yet again 
 nothing to write home about. The guns do sometimes sound a little bit "canned" and the enemies 
 sound ridiculous. 
  
  Overall Made Man is a fun game if you can find it for under $20.00 but don't expect this to fill 
 in for Max Payne 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 12, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  I was kind of thinking that this game would be similar to Mafia because we all know what a Made 
 Man is - someone who joined the family so to speak.... the Italian family.
  
  The game is completely linear, so there are no choices, you just have a level, you play it, shoot 
 everyone and you're done. 
  
  Having said that, the game is pretty nicely done even though the storyline is just OK, it is nicely 
 done but nothing that stands out.... the storyline was done in a deja vu pattern so it's nothing 
 new, but having in mind how many storylines fail, this one is actually good - could obviously be 
 better but then again the entire game could be better, but they can't all be perfect especially 
 if they are aimed to be simple levels that you play with no linearity like in Max Payne.
  
  Well, all in all this game deserves between 7 and 7.5 as it is missing a lot but it is still worth 
 playing. Seeing as the average is quite low and the game is missing loads, I will give it 7 because 
 it is playable but only if you haven't got any better games lined up.
  
  
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent 
 and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing if you have nothing else to play
  6 - worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely 
 anything else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 as if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10) .
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life.
  
  Best Wishes to everyone,
  
  Zak 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dribblecake
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 14, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  Before continuing, I assure you there is no other game on the market that shares a similar storyline 
 although it is a common sort of story line within movies.
  
  The introductory levels grab you and pull you into the web of intrigue, shootouts, blood and betrayal 
 that is Made Man. The middle levels are stylish and bloody, combining an intriging mix of characters 
 and enemies within several dark areas, including a block of fbi filled apartments, a printing press 
 ( in which you and other members of the family have a small uprising and in which you gotta kill 
 a bunch o' fbi) and good old 'nam. The end levels (although they could be longer) fulfill the task 
 of providing a satisfying and cool end to an awesome storyline. Twists and gore galore.
  An enjoyable feature of the game includes the ability of using 2 guns at the same time for nearly 
 all the guns in the game. These guns include AK47s, M4s, Berrettas, Revolvers, Shotguns (both sawn 
 off and pump action) , Uzis and SMGs. The other guns in the game include the Machine Gun (placed 
 on the ground) and sniper rifles.
  It also includes a mix of melee weapons.
  Although the game is highly original, it borrows almost 50% of it's character from Max Payne. It's 
 like an unreleased sequel to Max Payne 2 in which you star as Vinnie Gognitti or another Italian 
 American gangster in the game. It's also similar to the game Mafia. If you enjoyed any of those 
 games and wished they would bring out a sequel to them, you should definitely play this. If you 
 haven't been put off by the somewhat stupid, harsh and biased reviews by others and you haven't 
 got set in your mind that game is going to be bad, you will enjoy this game incredibly so. This 
 is dribblecake signing out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stere_bushi
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2007 6:06 am PT
Review:  It is a very good game , and if you like max payne , you will like this also. Many think is not 
 good , but my opinion it is as close as you get in a game for expericence the way of Cosa Nostra 
 from America whitout to be a real gangter on the streets. The first game that have a real family 
 crime , the Bonnanno's and was working in the develop of the game whit a real made man Bill Bonnanno 
 , the son of one of legend of mafia Joe Bonnanno.
  If you dont know how is Joe Bonnanno , mean that you are from other world 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Louis51
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 7, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  Ironically, Made Man nearly didn't get made at all. When the original publisher Acclaim went defunct, 
 the game's production ceased. But a gang of the original developers decided to resurrect it under 
 their new studio name, Silverback. Okay, that's the story behind it. So this game was supposed 
 to be released a few years back. And had it been, it probably would've fared well. But releasing 
 it now, in 2007, it can't be called anything but severely dated.
  
  As I played the game, I tried to forget that it was released this year, and imagined how I would 
 respond to it had it been released on the original XBox, a couple of years back. And with that 
 in mind, I had an alright time playing the game. But then I remember that it is 2007, and there's 
 no way in hell a game released in this day and age should look or play like this.
  
  Made Man's gameplay is an unholy mix of Dead to Rights, Max Payne, Shellshock, Scarface, and kill. switch. 
 You'll shoot gangsters, Vietcong, and the innocent if you so please. You can also take cover, which 
 is actually one of the best things about the gameplay, though it's not implemented very well. The 
 idea of cover is interesting because this game was being developed before Gears of War, Rainbow 
 Six: Vegas, Brothers in Arms 3, and other modern games that feature the 'innovative' cover-system.
 
  
  The game looks like a standard XBox game released in 2004, with nice textures that are easy on 
 the eyes with their photorealism (though they're not as razor sharp as, say, Max Payne's) . The 
 animation is pretty poor, particuarly the facial animation. But the game looks appalling by today's 
 standards. It can't hold a candle to modern PC games, of it's type or otherwise.
  
  The game's sound is probably its best feature, the voice acting is good and the script is well-written 
 and occasionally comedic. The music in the game isn't bad, but it's nothing noteworthy. The guns 
 sound alright.
  
  The game's story is also one of its best features. It's told very well and professionally, but 
 is a tiny bit disjointed in the amount of different time-periods you'll be playing in. But it's 
 interesting, with a similar storytelling device as Goodfellas but a story that's similar to Donnie 
 Brasco.
  
  All in all, Made Man is a pretty average game. It should really be priced at around &pound;10 due 
 to how dated it is, in gameplay and production values, however. But if you get past that fact that 
 it was actually released THIS YEAR -- 2007, and imagine it was released when it was supposed to 
 have been, then you might have a good time with it. Rent it first. Worth checking out if you like 
 third-person shooting games and haven't had a gangster fix since Mafia. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebtr
Rating: 2
Date: May 21, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  After Aspyr came out with The Shield we all should have know that MADE MAN would be a similar effort.
 
  When a company continues to produce substandard products we must now boycott anything that carries 
 the Aspyr name.
  Please do not buy this game it will soon be available for $5.00 or less on ebay or in your local 
 junkyard .
  This is a poor game, short, stupid, and represents all the best 2002 game technology. Simply put this 
 game is a total rip-off (again) by Aspry.
  The once proud bird has taken a giant XXXX on it's customers. They continue to produce and sell 
 worthless games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdgffdgfdhgfhgf
Rating: 2.5
Date: May 20, 2007 7:13 am PT
Review:  Ow my god this is the worse game i ever played!!! My brother has it and he loves it but i hate 
 it! i think the game is being to much rated . The graffics aren't very bad but the sound the gameplay 
 etc... are very bad . If you are looking for a good shooting and adventure game don't buy made 
 man its just a waste of time and money. I hate it hate it hate it! When i first saw the game i 
 said to my self this game looks good but when i played it i saw the worse game ever and i even 
 had nightmares at night lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 2.9
Date: Apr 24, 2007 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Guess I was dead wrong. Made man tries to be a Mafia meets Max Payne. It fails miserably with bad 
 graphics and gritty gameplay.
  
  The graphics aren't the only thing that looks bad. The animations and audio are chopped full of 
 glitches. One second you'll be shooting at an enemy the next he will teleport to cover and fill 
 you full of lead. This isn't the only glitch in Made Man. There are plenty such as it raining inside 
 of a cave. Come on thats just bad.
  
  The overused models will have you saying Didn't I just kill that guy? The cutscenes are laughable 
 also. Can't forget the mediocre voice acting, except the main character, his isn't too bad.
  
  Overall the main point is to avoid this game. It may look like a good third person shooter 
 but it isn't even close.
  
  Pros+ Shows you how good other games are?
  
  Cons- Graphics, Gameplay, Cutscenes, Voice Acting, Tons of Glitches and bugs, random/run of the 
 mill story 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rlmbandit
Rating: 4.4
Date: Apr 24, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  The screenshots made me believe that there was more to the game so I thouht I would try out the 
 Demo - I mean, the Demo just provided a FPS but no plot or schedule of what to do or how to gain 
 level in the Mafia. I'm not sure I'm familiar with Mafia but according to the previous reviews, 
 I may check it out. There weren't too many variations on weapons and only seem to be leading you 
 along the path set in the game, not what you choose. But, then again, it could just mean that there 
 is more that could be involved, IF it provided it at all - it would prompt me to buy it, that's 
 for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: piirimehike
Rating: 4.4
Date: Apr 19, 2007 5:22 am PT
Review:  There have been many games about some mafia action or so. This is another one, but Made Man has 
 something special to offer to the player: namely the really linear gameplay.
  
  First of all, the story is quite good. The idea is good, but when it comes to realising the idea, 
 it all collapses. The whole story consists of a recollection of some guys recent happenings and 
 the flashbacks have some flashbacks of their own. The interface and gameplay might confuse you 
 at some point. You must not confuse it for a RPG style shooter like GTA because the gameplay is 
 really linear.
  
  The gameplay and controls are bad but not too bad. They are a bit raw compared to other games to 
 the genre like GTA and lack smoothness. At some points the controls might stiff up. The gameplay 
 looks big because you see big rooms with big crates and many rooms, but the path is clear and the 
 level design does not really give you any choices to make. There are some arcade style opponents, 
 like a sniper in a helicopter (you will probably encounter him before the game gets too boring) 
 whom you have to shoot thousands of times and even then he just says that he is 'shot' and flies 
 away. The graphics are terrible. Comparing them with state-of-the-art games would be completely 
 absurd, but comparing it with the original Half-Life would be fair. The ingame movies do not look 
 good either because of the low resolution and the sometimes stiff animation. Although the graphics 
 are poor, there are some long loading times that would not bug anyone if the graphics were better 
 and the levels a bit bigger. The sound is a bit messy at some points. It is extremely messy when 
 someone is speaking about vital stuff like how to get past some guys or where to proceed. The vocals 
 are too quiet for default and if you even prick your ears and try to configure the settings... 
 you will just find that some vocals are still too unclear. The vocal acting is not anything nice 
 either.
  
  The best thing about this game is the story, if you have the nerve and simplicity not to mind the 
 minor inconveniences and the lack of ... lack of all the things that the game lacks of. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
