-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Maelstrom
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/maelstrom06/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The water is pretty.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Frightful pathfinding and artificial intelligence drive the gameplay straight into the ground.
 tacked-on third-person action mode is poorly implemented and totally unnecessary.
 the voice acting may be the worst you'll hear all year.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 20, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.2
Critic Score: 5.9, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 4.9, 271 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Developer: KDV Games
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Feb 20, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Maelstrom can't even get the basics right, and the few features that sound interesting on paper 
 end up being completely useless. 

  It's a shame that the makers of 2004's excellent and inventive real-time strategy game Perimeter 
 couldn't maintain their momentum. Maelstrom is a frustrating mess that showcases meaningless tacked-on 
 features in lieu of functional RTS gameplay. It's hard not to walk away with the feeling that KD 
 Visions spent more of its time making pretty water graphics than it did making the game fun to 
 play.  

          You can take direct control of your hero units. And it serves no purpose whatsoever.   
   

  The gist of Maelstrom's single-player campaign is that a global catastrophe has left most of Earth 
 underwater, and the human freedom fighters that call themselves the Remnants are fighting the stoic 
 Ascension for control over the leftovers. But wait -- you guessed it -- a third force, the alien Hai-Genti, 
 needs the deluged planet for its own devices. It's all laid out in a total of four campaigns that 
 start poorly and never veer from the low standard set by the Remnant story.  

  To the game's credit, each faction plays differently from the others. The Remnants are the most 
 familiar to play, using farms to harvest sunlight and collecting scrap from the environment. The 
 Ascension gather DNA from the Remnant compounds, as well as the rays of the sun, while the Hai-Genti 
 produce biomass. All three factions use water pumps scattered throughout the maps to their advantage, 
 either for collection as a resource or, in the case of the Hai-Genti, for the conversion of water 
 into poisonous mutagen. The human factions can terraform land, and the Ascension can transform 
 mobile units into other structures. But the campaigns don't do the differences justice, alternating 
 between mind-numbingly boring and just plain stupid. The game almost always boils down to moving 
 units en masse from one mission point to the next and destroying enemies, which is completely devoid 
 of strategy. The campaigns are also really easy. Well, with the exception of surprise deaths -- falling 
 meteors destroy your hero units and force a reload of your most recent saved game. And, no, there 
 is nothing you can do to escape those moments, aside from trial and error.  

  But what could make this more fun? Why, giving your hero units special abilities and letting you 
 jump into their shoes as if Maelstrom is a third-person action game, of course! This isn't a completely 
 new feature, because last year's Rise &amp; Fall: Civilizations at War used a similar mechanic. 
 Yet while Rise &amp; Fall valiantly attempted to make the action element meaningful in the context 
 of the gameplay, Maelstrom sticks it in and does absolutely nothing with it. What was the purpose? 
 Controlling a hero this way is jerky and annoying, as well as a complete waste of time. You can 
 activate your hero's special abilities from the traditional RTS view, but many of those abilities 
 are pointless. For example, the Remnant can research the ability to convert survivors into mercenaries, 
 but at no point were there any survivors to find, nor did activating the ability do anything. In 
 another insane case, if you want to use a unit's healing abilities, you have to find and click 
 on the unit that needs healing right on the main screen because you can't do it on the unit card 
 in the heads-up display. You'll also need luck finding it because it will either be clustered in 
 a tight hair ball of units or halfway across the screen and away from the control group for no 
 apparent reason.  

  Maelstrom's pathfinding and artificial intelligence are appalling. The results of a simple movement 
 order would feel more at home in an interpretive dance recital than in a strategy game. When ordering 
 a control group just a short distance, individual units wander off like amnesiacs, sometimes jittering 
 against the geometry and sometimes making their way to the destination like drunks hobbling home 
 after last call. Even when a control group is at rest, a lone unit will circle around the others 
 as if they're playing a game of "duck duck goose." It makes battles infuriating because individual 
 units meander into danger, and there's simply nothing you can do to stop it. The AI also requires 
 the enemy to be directly on top of your units before the enemy fights back. The resulting micromanagement 
 makes playing Maelstrom a lot like babysitting, except that the Ascension won't hand you $20 at 
 the end of the night. And like an unruly toddler, the units do whatever they want anyway, so after 
 a while, you won't want to bother. They'll even try to shoot through objects without repositioning 
 themselves to do damage. But at least you won't need to worry about that semitrailer attacking 
 you.  

          The most interesting faction is the Zerg. Er, the Hai-Genti.     

  To make matters worse, Maelstrom is an excruciating assault on the ears. The subtle soundtrack 
 is the only point of respite because the minute you select a unit, it will bombard you with possibly 
 the most horrific voice acting you'll hear in a game all year. You  will  turn down your speakers 
 to avoid aural injury. And that's OK because some units are weirdly silent. Aren't giant mechs 
 supposed to make some kind of noise when they walk? The visuals are a little better, and it's easy 
 to get initially caught up in the beautiful water and terraforming effects. But gorgeous water 
 can't save Maelstrom from poor textures, bland environments, and mediocre unit animations.  

  Multiplayer is at least functional and features a good number of maps for up to six players. 
 Even a poor RTS game can be moderately enjoyable against other players, and the factions are balanced 
 well enough. You can also play a skirmish against the computer, but you'll need to turn the AI 
 up a notch because the normal setting doesn't offer any challenge. Even if you somehow manage to 
 find Maelstrom's bright spots, there are too many ridiculous design elements to make it worth a 
 purchase -- unless you've always wanted to play a sci-fi RTS game with a "duck duck goose" minigame, 
 of course.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Roarzz
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2008 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Not even kidding I first bought this game and I thought... My god I HATE THIS!!! So I deleted it 
 and put it away... But lately I've needed something to stave off my RTS hunger till Soulstorm, 
 and OH MY GOD! I fell in love with this game it's really awesome! The titan! The Huge Mech! It's 
 all completely wicked awesome!!! Seriously, if you own the game and hate it, your doing something 
 wrong. Maybe your lagging too much or maybe you just started and your getting your building drowned 
 by aliens (For people looking to buy this game, get to know how to play and stuff before fighting 
 humans VS aliens, basicly the main reason I stopped playing because of base drowning) or maybe 
 your just fighting something TOO hard. I don't know but cheer up and give it another try, seriously, 
 this game... just wicked! 10 all the way~!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-am-Sephiroth
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 19, 2008 3:22 am PT
Review:  Reading the back of the case in my local store i became excited to play it. Got home installed 
 it and looked on in horror at the appaling mess in front of me. 
  
  Maelstrom claimed to be something it wasnt, the graphics are reminisent of the frist command and 
 conquer game, the gameplay is choppy and unfinished and the sound effects are laughable. It fails 
 to deliver anything its comtetitors can offer and to top things off i spent 30 on it when i wouldnt 
 have paid a penny had i known what i was about to get.
  
  Considering the quality of similar games available i simply couldnt believe they had released this 
 for sale. Characters get lost and stuck, the game is full of bugs, the controls suck, the graphics 
 suck, the sound effects suck, there is nothing to entertain you or draw you in. You can go to 1st 
 person mode which has absolutely no use whatsoever. 
  
  Given the size of the game, the description on the case, the cost and what could have been if they 
 had actually tried to make this a good game i have to say it fails in every single way possible. 
 
  
  A complete and utter waste of time and money, i gave it to a friend to get a second opinion and 
 he was of the same opinion. There are so many other similar game out there that can offer you so 
 much more. Avoid. Trust me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mexus55
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 23, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  Maelstrom is a great game as in the graphics are superb as in when you zoom in in on something 
 it looks like well something! The voice, a bit on the choppy side but no major complaints from 
 me. Altough, the gun firing noises kinda get a lil bit annoying. They storyline in the campaign 
 is decent no sci fi masterpiece but its not horrrible. The three armies Hai-Genti, Acsension, and 
 the remnants all play out differently from eachother which is good. Overall lotsa effort was put 
 into this game but in the end they missed some bugs. If you enjoy sci-fi and RTS games then i recommend 
 maelstrom at least for a try you dont have to own it but find someone who does and borrow it first 
 just to see if you like it and if and when you review it dont be flat out cruel to the game I mean 
 common. Since the game and graphics were nigh on flawless I gave maelstrom an 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: james28893
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 20, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  An utterly god-awful game. Nearly everything looks horrendous and the 'groundbreaking' ideas first 
 shown off in early previews are either pointless or broken. When diving into the shoes of the hero 
 characters, he game becomes even worse; there is a horrendous amount of pop-up, the control system 
 doesn't seem to work and there is a vast drop in frame-rate (at least for me) . If wanting to buy 
 an sci-fi RTS just go for Supreme Commander or Command &amp; Conquer 3 (even if you have them) . 
 I am not sure if there was meant to be a storyor if that was lost in the post somewhere, but it 
 soon (roughly five minutes in) breaks down into a hideous mess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grihn
Rating: 2.1
Date: Aug 13, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  I'd first just like to say, I found this game in a bargain bin on sale for 50% off the marked price. 
 I got it for $6.50. I've bought many games for $10 and under, and many have been... not the best 
 games ever, but at least I could say it was worth $10. Not with Maelstrom.
  
  Where do I start? The story is rediculous and cliched, the sound is horrendous; dialogue is corney, 
 repedative, music is aweful and annoying, and sound effects are on par with a 1998 game. Visually, 
 Maelstrom isn't anything to brag about, but it's not ugly either (that's the only good thing about 
 this game) . As for the actual gameplay, The pathfinding is redaredly bad, the fighting (animations, 
 sound, effects) is not convincing and is boring, and each mission, even if short by the standards 
 of today's RTS game, seem painfully drawn out due to the lack of much action and the general crappiness 
 of the game. It's also rediculously easy and uncomplex that a 2-year-old could master the game 
 in... as soon as they picked it up. Maelstrom is the most pathetic excuse for an RTS game, nay video 
 game, ever made. I'm currently using the DVD disk as a coaster.
  
  Only with Maelstrom have I spent less than $10 and been upset... I feel like somebody's robbed $6.50 
 right out of my pocket then beat me over the head with a S*** box of a reminder. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vangaurdius
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 2, 2007 11:10 pm PT
Review:  I would like to start off with a quick statement, its basically a suggestion to anyone who will 
 be writing reviews about pc games, I would suggest you play games on a low end computer with an 
 old graphic card and no dual core or whatever and play a game, then you would understand what most 
 gamers experience and imo graphics should have very little effect on a review. Now then, gameplay:
 
  Each faction is unique and well done. The flooding thing with the aliens in entertaining and can 
 provide a good challenge. The terraforming is also fun to use and its nice to see it carried on 
 from their previous game. The worst part about the gameplay is the pathfinding which is horrible. 
 One thing that to be perfectly honest is the collision detection boxes, which are no longer used 
 (basically big boxes around units where things can't pass through) , instead today people either 
 don't use any collision detection between units because it can be a major pain, or people use the 
 new collision system where you use a collision box that is built right into the skin of the unit. 
 That is one cause of the pathfinding but also the AI can be rather dumb. The third person shooter 
 mode is nice but it isn't as good as the one in Rise and Fall: Civilizations at war which did a 
 good job with it, once again the problem lies in pathfinding and collision detection. Sound: The 
 sound really needed to be redone, the voices when issueing orders is stupidly repetative along 
 with any other lines, though the alien heroes were quite ammusing like I'm going to kill the next 
 person who makes a joke about uranus. or I may be telepathic, but I still can't win the lottery. 
 or You have made me angry, very angry, very angry indeed. The heroe's voices were nice though. 
 The sound of footsteps could have been improved.
  Graphics: Can't complain, they work well on low end computers like mind which is what companies 
 need to focus on and realize that most gamers can't spend $10 000-$50 000 on a state-of-the-art 
 computer.
  The game was good except for the path finding and the collision detection.
  It is a good game but could have had more time spent on certain technical aspects. All these problems 
 can be fixed by mods though. Also, new maps would be nice aswell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwilson32
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 16, 2007 11:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is like taking 10 years of technology from the strategy game genre. First, the camera 
 is somewhat awkward, though it is tollerable. Second the story line is pretty darn week. Third, 
 the voice overs are pretty terrible at low quality audio (sounds like they are talking on a phone) . 
 Fourth, the AI is some of the worst I have seen. And finally, the first person missions are like 
 playing FPS arcade games from the mid 90's. You can only run straight, no strafing, no jumping, 
 crawling, none of that. And, you die very very easily. If you are going to put a FPS mission in 
 the game, make it worthy of the FPS genre. Anywho, I know this isn't about an FPS, it's a strategy, 
 so I'll focus my frustration on that. The game looks nothing like the screenshots. It is ugly, 
 no real depth in the environment and the character models are terrible. The music is ok, but the 
 overall sound was terrible. The effects are like that of Xcom back in those days. Anyway, it would 
 be a terrible waste to spend money on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: togemon171
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 1, 2007 11:43 pm PT
Review:  It diddnt suck that much and the terrain is completely moldable. I think that this game is too 
 underrated. People keep saying it sucks because Gamespot thinks so. It also looks like it was badly 
 made, and thats why it is a bit of a turn off to most people, but it could be way better then it 
 is now. So I have to admit im disappointed and it was a waste of good ideas. People seem to think 
 it sucks more than it really does. At least it was better than Rise and Fall or most RTS's that 
 look like 2D. I think we should give these guys another chance. They have good ideas and have good 
 potential in making games and they have a lot of other good games coming in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Invisiblejim
Rating: 2.5
Date: Apr 29, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  I have to admit with everyone else.... this is an awful RTS. I thought no no its a two for one offer 
 in the store I'll give a go... shame I didnt check all you folks first... impulse buying is the route 
 of all bad game play..
  
  If you have graced yourself with C&amp; C and lord of the lords, you will immediately understand 
 the problems.
  
  Camera control, shockingly bad, cut scenes terrible.. you'll be rolling your eyes muttering words 
 like get on with it... 
  
  You know what, if somthing is missing in your life go rummage through the bargain bucket in stores 
 and grab yourself Starcraft or Fallout 2... now those games worked... this one.. just doesn't... If 
 fact after this terrible experience I might have to load starcraft up, just to shake off the bad 
 taste of this game.
  
  I wouldn't even bother for a fiver.... or a quid on this one... best to steer clear folks of this 
 Kaka.
  
  Ah well codemaster, this is what you get for paying peanuts to game testers, you get monkeys... do 
 those guys even play games? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon_112
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 3, 2007 6:30 am PT
Review:  Firstly: I had been waiting for Maelstrom over a year. When I opened the packaging I wondered what 
 it would be like (having read the Gamespot review) . Okay. Let's begin: Graphics: Maelstrom holds 
 more than it's own in the graphics area. If you look at the units' faces close up you can see lots 
 of detail. And the water looks VERY good. Gameplay:
  A normal skirmish starts like any strategy game. Collect resources and build some scouts. However, 
 when playing against the aliens, things start getting intersting! You must use the terraforming 
 tool to great ditches to drain the water, build walls, etc, etc. The aliens are straight forward: 
 Build units, capture pumps and flood everything. Sound:
  The voice acting is rather a let-down. And laser effects get annoying after 50 shots! Campaign:
 
  The campaign has a rather interesting storyline (Written by some si-fi scriptwriter or something) . 
 There are three factions: The Remmnants (Terran to put it in starcraft terms.) , Ascension (Protoss) 
 and Hai-Genti Or aliens (Zerg) . You start Remmnants then Ascension and finally Hai-Genti. Multiplayer:
 
  The multiplayer is like any strategy game: Choose AI players, human players and teams. Luckily 
 there is no cd-key for LAN (only online) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: td_tempest
Rating: 4.1
Date: Mar 24, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  I am generally a very fair person; I will play a game before I judge it. So, ditto with this one. 
 First things first. The game concept is good. That is, the whole submerged planet thing. Water 
 as a resource has been done before, so has solar energy as a resource. I like the way the Zer -- 
 sorry, Hai-Genti, play. Calling down eggs, and then morphing the individual eggs mean that you 
 can assemble a strike force in no time flat, depending on the number of Hac -- inception spores 
 you have. The water is nice. I like the water, seriously, and since the whole game is about a submerged 
 earth, that's good. I also like the way the vehicles interact with the environment, the Scavenger 
 knocks down lamposts in its way, and the trees move as it brushes past. Nice touch.
  
  Now the bad. AI sucks. Specifically, there is little AI. I watched in wonder as my troopers walked 
 into Legionairres, bumping into them before firing. Watched again as the same troopers walked around 
 each other endlessly. To its saving grace, the AI did get my hero. Though it may have been luck. 
 Textures are simplistic. Nothing much in the way of textures. Story. Hmm. What story ? Abilities, 
 don't work as well as they should. Third person gave me a headache. The simplest movement caused 
 my hero to turn 90 degrees. I laughed my head off in the skirmish when the Hai-Genti commander 
 called in a sub-hero and he fell face first from the sky into the water. The audio is ..... bad. 
 The only other voice acting this bad was in Earth 2160, and that is forgivable, because the game 
 wasn't produced in English, anyway. My other pain point was that there are so few buildings in 
 each faction. Only the Remnants have a decent tower. The Hai-Genti only have landmines. Ascension 
 never even heard of the word. And there is NO attack-move. Only 'move'. Overall. The game concepts 
 are nice. The water is nice. But the implementation of it is nearly non-existent. The Hai-Genti, 
 in my honest opinion is the only race that passes muster, and only because it resembles the Zerg, 
 and I'm biased to them. If the game had undergone a serious facelift, it would've shined. But, 
 some people may like it. So in all fairness, before you buy it, cream it off someone and try it 
 out first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truemattyz
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 10, 2007 5:44 am PT
Review:  the ppl in this game move there lips like there super glued to theere chin bobin up and down every 
 time the awful drivel comes outa tehre mouth. which is a shame cos when you see the intiial screen 
 after ages of loading (why) it looks real beautiful and the sea is lovely in this game. i am used 
 to annoying rts caraters sorry but dawn of war voices cvould really get on your wik. but this is 
 dreadful. the console screen looks like it was made 10 years ago. and this game does not offer 
 anything different spellforce did the fps thing better than this. i am sick of rts anyway but thankx 
 to thc they have keeped this type fo genre alive with master pieces like dawn of war and supreme 
 commander and company of heroes. blizzard were good as well as big huge games produtions these 
 are real RTS gems i suggest you try some of these. company of heroes being one of the best and 
 my fav age of metholigy series ... meaelstrom stinks steer clear if you want fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delta_5_1
Rating: 2.3
Date: Mar 8, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is abysmal. I'm all for computer RTS games, b/c I can usually get even bad ones to work 
 well enough for a couple of hours enjoyment. Not so with Maelstrom. The game is so contrived that 
 I doubt anyone will want to rent it, much less buy and play it. To make a long review short, this 
 game has no story, the AI sucks (there is nothing like watching a unit run in circles because it 
 cannot get past an obstruction,) and if you can get past the horrible game play, I doubt you could 
 squeeze more than a couple of hours out of it (before frustration sets in leading you to toss the 
 thing in the file 13 receptacle.) Save your money for C&amp; C 3, and hope that it is better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warriorstar
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 28, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Maelstrom is a great game and I completely disagree with the other reviews. The gamespot review 
 was totally misleading.... the graphics are great, the first person mode (direct control) is exciting, 
 the a. i. is not that bad, the pathfinding is also not as bad as described, and the voice acting is 
 pretty darn good as well. Its funny that other game sites give it pretty high marks (some as high 
 as 8.2) , and the average scores by gamers are high as well. It makes me wonder.... By the way, I 
 play nearly every strategy game that comes out (for the last ten years as a matter of fact) , so 
 I know a good strategy game when I see it. For people to give this very good game a 1-4 star rating 
 is mind-boggling! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OneMtl
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 25, 2007 8:58 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to describe what this game is exactly, its immensely boring. The challenge is not to 
 win that is quite easy it's to actually play to have your minions do what you want. I wish that 
 kind of money was given to charities or better ideas. I totally fail to see were they saw a completion 
 to there development, all the basic to the game seem to be missing. Inside of ten minutes you made 
 it trough all the option it comes to be limited so very fast, its sad. I feel guilty to say that 
 the game is no good because people actually did put an effort in creating this, real hard work 
 but you don't see it. Play the demo you will understand my thoughts, but for the love of game play 
 don't buy this it is not fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jameel_lodhi
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 25, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Innovation is a funny old thing. Take Maelstrom. One glance at its list of features would be enough 
 to have even the most hardened of cynics polishing a Classic Award in anticipation. But while it 
 may be an RTS brimming with clever ideas, it fails to fulfil its potential on so many levels.
 
  
  Set in the near future when corporations have all but overthrown the governments of the world, 
 it's your mission - as the 'Remnants' of humanity and its armed forces - to thwart the armies of 
 Tesco and Asda before they forcibly build express supermarkets on every nuked street corner. At 
 least, that's roughly the gist of it...
  
  Later on, an alien race turns up, which is when things really start to get interesting, but by 
 that point, it's a case of too little, a little too late.
  
  POOR EXECUTION
  Masquerading as an impoverished man's Ground Control II, Maelstrom - like a
  child prodigy who 
 turns to booze at the age of 12 - throws away much of its potential on a collection of misjudged 
 and sub-standard choices. These include an infuriatingly clumsy interface, along with poor camera 
 controls compounded by a lack of building transparency - often leaving your troops out of sight 
 at key moments.
  
  Couple this with brain-jarringly annoying incidental troop dialogue, and one of the most bizarre 
 third-person shooter sections we've ever seen, in which you control a hero unit and fire what can 
 only be described as a pea shooter at enemies who never miss their target. All of which is criminal 
 when you consider just how much potential this game has.
  
  However, after a tedious start, you do slowly start to uncover a multitude of quality features, 
 including many great terrain and weather-altering options, which imbue the game with a solid spine 
 of originality. There's also a myriad of superbly diverse vehicles, destructible surroundings (admittedly 
 with somewhat exaggerated physics) , quality day/night cycles and some top-notch hero abilities.
 
  
  Maelstrom is certainly interesting, but it just lacks that magic spark needed to transform a collection 
 of ingenious ideas into a thrilling RTS experience. Innovative? Certainly. Thrilling and essential? 
 Not quite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CharonXeno
Rating: 4.4
Date: Feb 23, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw Maelstrom and its features , I thought it might be an instant hit - deformable 
 terrain which also influences water, a somehow interesting setting, three different - and distinct 
 (unlike supreme commander) - factions. What could go wrong, with all this potential. Turns out: 
 alot.
  The gameplay is lackluster (go to this waypoint with a great army. kill all enemies on the way. 
 kill all enemies on the waypoint. repeat.) and the story is the worse. This is further impacted 
 by the horrific voiceacting - following a run of the mill story is bad enough, but having to do 
 so while listening to those actors is simply a toil. The userinterface is sub-standard - removing 
 individial units from a group is not possible, for example.
  Intelligent (!) pathfinding is near non-existant (no, I don't want you to drive through that water 
 - you will be damaged and explode, use the road on the shore instead.)
  All in all, the graphics are ok and the water looks gorgeous, but this can't safe a game with such 
 big faults.
  It is sad to see a game with so much pontential fail in a such great way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xen0g1
Rating: 4.7
Date: Feb 15, 2007 6:20 am PT
Review:  How to review this game without sounding like im just constantly criticising it? That is the question 
 ive been asking myself for the past 5 minutes as I sat here contemplating how to start this review. 
 The answer when it came to me was simple... dont even bother to try.
  
  I have been looking for a futuristic RTS game for a while now and while maelstrom hasnt been at 
 the top of my list I figured Id give it a go to see what it was like. The special edition box (tin) 
 was nice and the manual made for an interesting read, increasing my anticipation on the way home.
 
  
  Everything installed fine, no hassles there.
  
  Unfortunately things went down hill from there. The initial selection/options screen didnt inspire 
 me with confidence, graphically it looked grainy and even with all the graphics options set to 
 max it looked like command and conquer generals (a game that came out ages ago) .
  The beauty of RTS games however is that often once you get past the fact that the graphics arnt 
 always top notch you often find a great game beneath.... not with this game I'm afraid.
  
  I started the campaign missions and found myself stuck in a loading screen for far longer than 
 necessary, my computer is easily above the recommended specs for this game, yet i was stuck there 
 for what seemed like days. Once the game finally loaded up I found that the makers had decided 
 to use the in-game graphics engine for the cut scenes, well unlike Company of heroes where it worked 
 a treat, here it falls flat on its face. It merely add's to the feeling that your playing something 
 from 3 or 4 years ago.
  The lip sync on the characters is some of the worst ive seen in a long time, add this to the fact 
 that even the main characters continually move around like the grunts, flapping thier arms and 
 kicking thier guns and you get a very distracting scene.
  Worse yet in my opinion was the seeming inability to skip the thing.
  
  In game things didnt 
 get any better, playing with a screen res of 1280 x 1024 I found that if i zoomed out to the maximum 
 in order to get a good view of the map it looked like i was controlling a group of fleas. The unit 
 selection bar/build bar is horrid to use, there is no obvious layout and I found I had to continually 
 hold the cursor over items in order to read the tooltips other wise I would have no idea what I 
 was building.
  
  The game also feels the need to plonk extremely large building into the map making you use the 
 ability to move the camera to inprove your view, not a bad idea in of itself until you find that 
 the camera controls seem to be set at uber sensitive and trying to line them back up with the map 
 is a chore.
  While on the subject of the camera angles, there is the ability to pan the camera... cool perhaps 
 i could improve the angle and get right into the action like on Company of Heroes... er no... it 
 allows you to pan from the start view to a top down view, which makes things even uglier.
  
  I tired of the single player campaign at mission 2 and hoped that the skirmish option would 
 breath some much needed life in to this game.
  Have you guessed whats coming next? Correct it didnt.
  
  I picked the alien army which looked 
 to be suitably different from the standard stuff of men shooting men. First major issue here was 
 tring to distinguish the unit's from one another, at any reasonable zoom they all look the same.
 
  Well by the time I'd gotten to grips with the aliens (less than 10 mins) I found a rather large 
 force of enemy solidiers right outside my base, not to worry I though as I have an equally large 
 number of early units... 2 mins later all my units were dead. If thats the way the Ai set to easy 
 works then im just glad i didnt set it any higher. Another thing i forget to mention here is the 
 sound, unit's seem to have 2 phrases which they alternate between every time you select them. After 
 only 10 minutes I got so sick of this that I considered putting it on mute.
  When I got my first robot/mechanised walker I was hoping for some nice walking sound's at the very 
 least... I was rewarded with silence.
  
  Frankly this is one to miss, looking for a new RTS game, my advice would be not to touch this one 
 with a barge pole (very long pole used to move barges along canals) .
  For me this game failed to deliver on so many levels, bad graphics, appalling sound and the overall 
 feeling of 'been there done that'. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
