-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mafia
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/mafia/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  4, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.3
Critic Score: 9.0, 47 Review (s)
User Score: 9.3, 6,412 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Gathering
Developer: Illusion Softworks
Genre: Historic Action Adventure
Date:     Aug 28, 2002 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Quite simply, Mafia is one of the best games of the year. 

 Between Swedish developer Digital Illusions' upcoming World War II shooter Battlefield 1942 and 
 Czech Republic-based Illusion Softworks' newly available Mafia, September's turning out to be a 
 banner month for great driving-shooting hybrids from European companies with the word "illusion" 
 in their name. Arriving without much prerelease hype, Mafia is a highly engaging combination of 
 the driving and living-city elements of Grand Theft Auto III and the story-driven third-person 
 shooting action of Max Payne. What's more, it isn't plagued by the litany of problems usually associated 
 with ambitious games from small development houses. Mafia looks and sounds great, it's exciting, 
 it's suitably bug-free, and, at a time when eight hours is becoming the standard length for single-player 
 shooters, it's long. Quite simply, Mafia is one of the best games of the year.           An onscreen 
 map shows you where you are and where you need to go.    

  As implied by the first paragraph of this review, comparisons between Mafia and the famous Grand 
 Theft Auto III are inevitable. Both games take place in detailed and sprawling clockwork cities, 
 both games involve stealing cars and avoiding the police, and both games have plots in which you 
 navigate a criminal underworld. The comparison breaks down when the details and structure of the 
 games' gameplay are considered, however. In much the same way that Grand Theft Auto III includes 
 an almost-complete version of Crazy Taxi as a minigame, Mafia can be considered a generally linear 
 third-person shooter that features a miniature version of Grand Theft Auto III. Mafia's living 
 city, a 1930s metropolis called Lost Heaven, is almost as fully realized as Grand Theft Auto III's 
 Liberty City. Lost Heaven's bigger, in fact, and it features plenty of vehicular and pedestrian 
 traffic, lots of different neighborhoods, working lift bridges, a train system, and even some outlying 
 country areas. It lacks only Liberty City's dynamic day-night cycle and weather patterns -- each 
 mission takes place at a particular time and in specific weather conditions.           Almost every 
 action sequence in Mafia is incredibly well done.    

  Most of Mafia's 20 large missions are split into sections. You'll usually watch one of the game's 
 long but well-done in-engine cutscenes, get assigned a few weapons, choose a car, and then drive 
 through the city to a given destination. At this point, a separate level -- generally a third-person 
 action sequence -- is loaded. After you complete the level, you'll usually drive home. Some missions 
 mix the structure up a little, and some offer an optional bonus task on the drive home. The most 
 serious complaint that can be made about Mafia is that the city isn't as tightly integrated into 
 the missions as it is in Grand Theft Auto III. Often, driving across the city is more of a mood-enhancing 
 interactive cutscene than a gameplay element that poses an actual challenge. This is fine in the 
 beginning, but by the time you've reached the halfway point, you may find yourself wishing that 
 you could simply fast-forward through these parts. You're often free to deviate from the quickest 
 path to your destination and go exploring, but unlike in Grand Theft Auto III, there's little reason 
 to do so. There are no bonuses to find, and, while you can run people around in a taxi for money, 
 this option is available only in a mode that's completely detached from the single-player campaign 
 and must be accessed separately from the main menu.   

  Mafia's realistic car physics and police behavior both add to the occasional tedium of the straightforward 
 driving segments. For the most part, the game's 60 or so 1930s-era vehicles aren't rocket cars. 
 They don't often go very fast, they don't always start the first time you turn the key, and they 
 have some serious problems climbing steep hills. You won't be making 300-foot barrel-roll jumps 
 in any of them. Furthermore, the Lost Heaven PD will see to it that you don't even drive as fast 
 as the cars will go. They'll pull you over for driving over 40 and running red lights, among other 
 things. Even if you're in a really cool-looking old-time car, a simulation of driving the speed 
 limit isn't exactly a recipe for thrills.             Driving around Lost Heaven can be fun, 
 but don't forget the traffic laws.    

  Fortunately, the biggest part of the aggravation that will eventually be caused by the puttering-around-town 
 driving segments will be your impatience to get to the next action portion of a given mission, 
 which are uniformly amazing. Mafia offers one incredible action set piece after another. Some involve 
 straightforward shootouts in enclosed areas, and some take place in huge compounds composed of 
 outdoor areas, multiple buildings, and drivable vehicles. Most involve multiple paths to your goal. 
 The developers have even managed to pull off some decent sneaking levels, though blasting your 
 way through them is also always an option. Occasionally, you'll even have computer-controlled companions 
 with you. For example, one level that takes place in a parking garage begins with a battle between 
 six or seven of your guys and as many members of an opposing mob. Enemies will use cars for cover, 
 and one tactical option is to aim for the vehicle and blow it up, taking nearby mobsters with it. 
 Even better, you can break into and drive any of the parked cars and use them as mobile shields 
 or battering rams. The whole battle is a truly exciting mixture of cat-and-mouse tactics, reckless 
 charges, flying bullets, and exploding cars. To describe other missions would simply ruin the surprise 
 of them. Thanks to its consistently memorable and ingeniously staged action scenes, Mafia never 
 devolves into a long series of indistinguishable firefights.   

  The game is packed with great little details. In what might be a first for a shooter, reloading 
 a gun means losing any bullets left in the current clip. Enemies also need to pause to reload and 
 have a limited supply of ammo, and once they're out, they'll usually charge you with knives. Since 
 you're given only one or two weapons and a limited supply of ammo at the beginning of any mission, 
 and since you can loot dead bodies for their equipment, you'll often have to decide whether to 
 stay hidden and hope an enemy runs out of ammo before he kills you, or risk attacking him in order 
 to grab his supplies before he wastes them. Also, cars sustain damage in incredibly satisfying 
 ways. You can smash out individual windows, blow out individual tires, break off headlights and 
 bumpers, and even shoot holes in gas tanks, causing the fuel to begin draining out. You can also 
 target a car's occupants, who'll expire in classic gangster death poses such as "slumped over the 
 steering wheel" or "clutching a tommy gun while hanging out a rear window."   

  The graphics are generally top-notch. The cars look fabulous, and they're especially notable for 
 the way they authentically re-create the curviness of the era's vehicle design. The texture work 
 in the city segments is occasionally a little muddy, though, and there's some pop-up on the horizon 
 that's especially evident when you're going over bridges. The action levels, on the other hand, 
 contain some really beautiful lighting and texture work, and the game's cutscenes feature some 
 of the most detailed and expressive face models ever created for a computer game. The sound is 
 equally excellent. The period soundtrack, composed mostly of cuts by swingy jazz legend Django 
 Reinhardt, with extra tracks by artists such as Louis Prima and the Mills Brothers, matches the 
 game's theme perfectly and also acts as a brilliant alternative to the generic techno and orchestral 
 music used in most games.   

  It should be noted that the developers have opted to rely on the widely unpopular limited save 
 system. There are a few instances where this choice leads to some frustration, but for the most 
 part the save points are both ample and intelligently placed. The 20 missions include more than 
 100 automatic save points.           Freeride extreme isn't nearly as serious as the main campaign. 
    

  Once you finish the single-player campaign, which should take anywhere from 10 to 15 hours, an 
 extra mode called "freeride extreme" becomes available. This mode lets you drive around Lost Heaven 
 without any police interference while uncovering 19 wild driving challenges. Completing each one 
 unlocks a special vehicle. The first task involves chasing down a man in his underwear who can 
 run 50 miles an hour and has flaming feet, for which you're rewarded with a psychedelic hippie 
 mobile. The missions get weirder from there and will occupy at least another five to 10 hours of 
 your time, if not more.   

  Someday, some developer will successfully integrate the nonlinear portions of Grand Theft Auto 
 III and the incredible action sequences of Mafia. Until that time, you can consider the two games 
 halves of an eventual whole. Separate, but equally amazing.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (272 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: antipunt1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 8:47 pm PT
Review:  It was the glorious critic review that brought me to play Mafia. All in all, it really wasn't a 
 bad game. That said, there were many issues with it that kind of bothered me. I browsed through 
 some of the other user reviews before writing mine, and was somewhat appalled. Something is definitely... wrong 
 (fishy) here, if you know what I mean. The critic review makes sense within the context that it 
 is dated (2002 to be exact) . But a lot changes in terms of expectations with regards to 6-7 years, 
 and despite this, there are hoards of 9.5 and 10s within the past couple of months... that just 
 strikes me as odd, but I'll just leave it at that...
  
  Despite all this peer pressure and an inevitable 'review not helpful' compilation that will soon 
 follow, I will not be persuaded to give anything but my completely unbiased/honest opinion about 
 this game.
  
  First off, let's clear some things up. Mafia is not a bad game; if that was a case, I wouldn't 
 have finished it. The story is probably its most shining item. I have to say, it has a certain 
 feel of authenticity to it that makes it feel kind of like a movie within a game. The pacing is 
 rather good, and the characters are developed somewhat nicely. In addition, sometimes you're left 
 wondering what's going to happen next, which can get pretty exciting.
  
  This, however, isn't all there is to the game; accompanying it is a pretty questionable/tedious 
 gameplay experience. And believe me, I've played many games, and the GTA fanboy label doesn't apply 
 to me because I actually didn't like GTA that much either (though better than this game) . The biggest 
 problem with Mafia's gameplay (tedium aside) is that the game should really be called Mafia Racers 
 or Mafia Drivers. Throughout the game, you are constantly doing a combination of:
  
  a) drive from location a to location b
  b) shoot em up at these areas (or not)
  c) drive back 
 to location a
  
  Constantly. Nonstop formula. And it's not so much that it's flat-out bad. In 2002, I'm sure I wouldn't 
 have minded it so much, but it's 2009 now and they invented fast-travel for a reason.
  
  In fact, in the first couple of missions, all you do is drive here, and then drive there, etc. 
 And in later missions when you drive out into the middle of nowhere, you are expected to drive 
 -all- the way back. No exceptions (except maybe 1-2 times I think) . You drive -everywhere-. I'd 
 say ~68% of the game's experience is spent literally driving. Maybe more, actually.
  
  Ironically, there's a racing segment. And while we're on the topic of racing, let me explain the 
 game's biggest gameplay flaw: tediousness. In addition to having to drive everywhere and having 
 a rather unforgiving save-system (not to mention some (minor) bugs in the PC version that I played, 
 crashes/glitches and all) , you have a somewhat questionable 'inflated-difficulty'. What I mean 
 by this is the game makes things harder than it needs to be, and in underhanded ways. For example, 
 the racing-segment was so tedious (I do not lie) , that my brother stopped playing the game right 
 then and there. He smashed his fists into the computer desk, walked away and said "This is -the 
 most frustrating game- I have -ever- played. I'm not even joking!" I tried to goad him to continue 
 playing, but to no avail. I had to continue alone.
  
  Another application of this 'inflated-difficulty' are some of the mission scripts. In some shooting 
 skirmishes, enemies will blow a shotgun shell into your face (causing a 1-hit KO) the split-second 
 you walk into the room. The AI isn't good... it's broken (and hence unrealistic) . This applies to 
 certain bosses as well; I only wish I could upload some videos to show you specifically what I'm 
 talking about (this isn't saying I can't handle the enemies; it's just that the AI is really not 
 that good, and there's definitely a -harder than necessary- kind of theme that runs through much 
 of the game) . To elaborate even further:
  
  Typical Mafia scenario: chase car for 8 minutes, praying you won't lose them (cause of the unforgiving 
 checkpoints) , nearly killing the enemy, your partner gets run over by a train. Thus, restart 8 
 minutes of driving.
  
  OR
  
  Scenario b) You've killed a mini-boss. Awesome, but you have very little health left. As you exit 
 the door, an enemy shoots you (split second/no chance to recover) and you die (for some reason, 
 it was a good idea to spawn enemy-units directly -after- a mini-boss) . The checkpoint system requires 
 you to refight the boss all over again.
  
  And there's much much more; however, I think I've already gone over the essentials of Mafia-tedium. 
 Honestly, it's not -that- bad if you're careful, but it still makes for a worse gameplay experience 
 than I would've hoped for. But as I've said, this game isn't horrible. There are two aspects that 
 shine above everything else: a) the city b) the story.
  
  As an individual, I generally focus on story/characters -much- more than gameplay. Mafia is one 
 of the first games I've played where my golden-rule needed to be adjusted. In short, the tedious/unfun 
 gameplay really took a lot out of the experience. That said, the story is fairly good (though not 
 nearly good enough to redeem its gameplay flaws) . 
  
  Mafia's story revolves around Tom, a cab driver, and his intertwined experiences with the Mafia. 
 As I've mentioned, I rather liked the pacing and tone. It sometimes felt like a cinematic experience. 
 The characters were somewhat well done, and the main character's voice acting: superb! But as I 
 said, the plot wasn't anywhere near perfect, and thus, couldn't totally tank for its gameplay. 
 Some things that bothered me with regards to the story were how 'certain aspects' were left undeveloped 
 (such as the main character's relationship with his wife/friends) . Storytelling is somewhat strong, 
 but characterization (except with regards to the main character's relationship to his own mind) 
 are somewhat left out. Though I have to say the story is otherwise rather good. Not great, but 
 pretty good. (There's also the ending to contend with. Though I do like the whole 'feeling of it 
 all', I felt like it was a bit rushed) 
  
  In closing, Mafia is a pretty good game with some glaring flaws. Mafia really isn't -that- bad; 
 I may have spent quite a bit of time justifying my opinion with regards to the negatives, but it's 
 only really because I had to prepare for the backlash that would inevitably come after posting 
 this review. As I mentioned before: pretty good story, pretty bad gameplay. The city is also well 
 done; despite the annoying cops, I did feel it kind of 'come to life'. The cars on the road had 
 pretty good AI, and I was actually somewhat pleasantly surprised when I got a ticket for 'running 
 a red light'. So the city, in my opinion, was another good things about this game.
  
  However, a well designed-city and somewhat good storyline do not make up for questionable mission 
 scripts, bugs, consistently tedious/iffy gameplay, and a somewhat lack in character development 
 (aside from the Tom) . And all in all, it just wasn't fun for me. I honestly tried to make it as 
 enjoyable as possible, but no matter what, I just couldn't really get into this. Eventually I was 
 just playing to find out what would happen. The ending wasn't necessarily that great either (but 
 the story/build-up, was in a way, to be fair) . 
  
  In the end, you may like this game, but I didn't and apparently my brother couldn't even play through 
 it. Honestly, the gameplay is really questionable. But who am I kidding, this game is from 2002, 
 so it's not like I'm holding a grudge. But as I've said, I suspect fishiness in the user-review 
 section here (starts with an 'f', and ends with a 'y') . And through 'observation' in the near-future, 
 we will know if this is true or not (if you catch my drift.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: with_teeth26
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2009 10:14 pm PT
Review:  It's not very often that I go back and play a game released before 2004. Even huge titles like 
 System Shock 2 and Half-Life only got my attention enough to purchase, play for a couple of hours, 
 and forget. I simply have not been gaming long enough to appreciate a game that came out before 
 i started gaming. The fact that Mafia was so good that i played it to the end is a tribute to how 
 truly excellent it really is. 
  
  In my opinion, the best games are always extremely immersive. this is what kept games like Assassins 
 Creed from achieving greatness; they pull you out of the game constantly with little hints and 
 reminders. All the aspects of Mafia are blended within the game to the point of perfection. The 
 game lets you learn by giving you missions to drive around the city in the form of taxi missions, 
 but what are really a set of missions designed to help you get to know the city better. Everything 
 is justified, nothing left unexplained. 
  
  Mafia presents itself in a highly cinematic way, with cutscenes seamlessly integrated into the 
 missions. There are no loading screens between gameplay and cutscenes (for the most part) , which 
 really immerses you in the mission. The story is really good, and really gets you involved. You 
 aren't just watching the story unfold as the player, you are taking part in it. The characters 
 are well rounded and develop throughout the game, the plot twists enough to stay unpredictable, 
 the cutscenes are never boring, and the characters in your gang are likable. 
  
  The gameplay itself, the heart of any good game, is surprisingly varied. You will drive people 
 around the cities, make pick ups and deliveries, perform hitman style assassinations, enter races, 
 full on gang wars, stealth missions, its amazing how different each mission is from the last. The 
 gunplay is well done, with different weapons feeling as they should. Because of these things, the 
 game never gets old, and you will want to see it through to the end. 
  
  Few games these days offer such a streamlined, polished, well crafted package as Mafia. The game 
 is a pleasure to play, the 1930's atmosphere is spot on, down to the music, the story is interesting 
 and draws you in. There are no notable flaws in this game, it is simply one of the best action 
 games ever made, and will remain a classic for the duration of gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Furnish
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 1:38 am PT
Review:  Mafia is set in the 1930s, between the fall of 1930 through to the end of 1938, during the later 
 part of Prohibition, which ended in 1933. The game is set in the fictional American city of 'Lost 
 Heaven' (loosely based on New York City and Chicago of the same time period) .
  
  The bulk of Mafia's storyline gameplay consists of driving, mostly for general travel between game 
 locales, as well as car chases and races; the remaining portions of the game consist of on-foot 
 third-person exploration and shooting, similar in style to the Grand Theft Auto series, which is 
 also published by a subsidiary of Take-Two Interactive. In addition to the entire city of Lost 
 Heaven and countryside, several detailed interior levels were also included for many of the on-foot 
 levels, including the city's airport and museum, a church, a hotel, an abandoned prison, a restaurant, 
 and Don Salieri's bar. Weather and night effects are also available in the game.
  
  Mafia offers players the opportunity to drive a total of 51 classic cars based on real-life counterparts, 
 in addition to another 19 bonus vehicles (including five classic racing models) available for unlocking 
 in a new mode upon completion of the game's storyline. Unlike the Grand Theft Auto series, however, 
 cars are introduced progressively through time in the storyline, with 1920s models available earlier 
 on during the storyline, while newer varieties from the 1930s appear later. In addition, the players 
 must "learn" how to steal a car by acquiring such knowledge from experts or experience, as opposed 
 to the Grand Theft Auto series, where players are free to acquire any type of vehicle, superior 
 or otherwise.
  
  Police would book players for minor offenses such as speeding or running a red light, and car accidents 
 caused physical harm to the driver. There are also many forms of transport available, such as trams 
 and elevated rail, though neither of which are drivable by the player.
  
  During "Free Ride" mode, the player is able to purchase weapons at "Yellow Pete's" as well as additional 
 health at the city hospital for $1000. All of the game's weapons are available for purchase albeit 
 for a rather inaccurate and inflated price for the era (i. e: 1 grenade: $100, baseball bat: $10, 
 Sniper rifle: $2000.) The player has many methods to raise money such as killing fellow (but now 
 enemy) henchmen for $500 a pop, speeding above 65mph nets $100 every other second, as well as exploding 
 vehicles for $100 a piece.
  
  Mafia is also noted for having damage physics on nearly all vehicles. While substantially more 
 robust than their real counterparts, smaller and weaker vehicles stand less abuse before breaking 
 down and finally exploding than large armoured vehicles. More realism is added here compared to 
 other games in the same genre such as the ability to puncture the fuel tank, overheat the engine, 
 and the ability to break transmission gears. Many exterior components (such as windows, tires, 
 headlights, and bumpers) can be removed from most vehicles with physical means such as crashing, 
 hitting with blunt weapons (fists, baseball bat) as well as firing bullets at them.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pogswarts
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 8:02 am PT
Review:  Graphics: Having dynamic shadows, bloom, AA, and great textures is just very surprising in a seven 
 year old game. Story/Missions: Like I said earlier it's possibly better than Grim Fandango or is 
 better. It also has the greatest ending. It's strange that the missions take parts of Hitman, Assassin's 
 Creed, a 3rd person Rainbow Six 3, Thief, one of many racing games, and many others. Because of 
 this the game never gets boring and you won't ever do the same thing twice. Sound/Music: High quality 
 voice acting with a lot of emotion makes you feel for the different characters. The soundtrack 
 has a great orchestral and very cinematic feel with some jazz around the city. Overall: If you 
 haven't got it yet do get it, and if you don't it's going to Gametap. You will never regret getting 
 it. There are some hard and very frustrating parts (last mission for example) , but you forget these 
 once you get to the ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pyro4144
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2009 12:56 am PT
Review:  In Aug 28, 2002 (US) Mafia was the best game of the year, why did the pick mafia? because it is 
 so coooooooooooooooooool, you can drive cars get on a Train and Tarim, you can drive so many different 
 Cars you can change the paint colour and there are 14 I think 14 things to kill a man or woman 
 there is a Tommy gun three different hand guns, two different shotguns, Knife, baseball bat and 
 more. But when you first play it you never get bored of it or put it in a bin well if you can't 
 do a mission you just go to freeride or ask someone to help you it is a good game I sometimes play 
 it now because i have had the game for a long time now, any way i can't wait for the second one 
 now, why i say this because i think that the second one will kick the godfather because the first 
 godfather wasn't that good but the gameplay was ok Mafia made: 2002 godfather made:2006 the mafia 
 was made in 2002 and it is why better then the first godfather, but i don't know if the second 
 godfather is better then Mafia II, looks like i have to wait and see witch one is BETTER!, I forgot 
 to say that Mafia on ps2 and Xbox came out in 2004 i think, why i like mafia, and will like Mafia 
 II is because its in the time where i would like to be because it has the cars the placers that 
 are so cool!! and i could go on but its to hot of a day like i said, so thats why i like that game, 
 so rock the house!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PteNomercy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  Mafia simply put is one of the most immersive, cinematic and atmospheric game ever made.
  
  When playing Mafia, it actually feels like you are involved in an interactive mobster move. Then 
 it sucks you into the world of the game with it's amazing story telling, voice acting, deep rich 
 characters and amazing game world.
  
  For it's time, and to this day, the graphics are beautiful. Car models especially shine as they 
 have realistic physics and amazing damage graphics. 
  
  Driving in Mafia has set the standard for the open world driving game genre.
  
  In Mafia, if 
 you run a red light, the police will track you down and issue you a ticket, traffic also behaves 
 realistically at intersections, drive around for a long time? You will need to pull into gas station 
 and fill up. When driving up hills or high ways you can shift gears to drive better. The amount 
 of detail in this major aspect of this game is amazing.
  
  Stealing cars is not like your typical GTA style - which is a good thing. As your character progesses 
 and matures - he LEARNS how to steal certain cars. Untill he learns how to steal a certain model 
 car - you're out of luck. This offers further depth in a already amazingly detailed game.
  
  The story in the game, as aforementioned, is simply one of the greatest told in a video game 
 period. It is so immersive and well done you actually care about game characters and feel like 
 you know them. The voice acting in the game is nothing short of top Hollywood performances and 
 the amount of conversations in the game is extensive.
  
  The city of Mafia is beautiful. It has it's different towns and districts that are different realistically. 
 Mafia has industrial districts, harbors, Little Italy, China Town, Up Town, Down Town, the country 
 side etc. Driving and exploring the highways to dirty allies in the world of Mafia are a pleasure.
 
  
  Characters in Mafia are highly detailed, highly articulated and realistic. The game utilized motion 
 capture of people - this is especially seen in the in game movies.
  
  Mafia also has amazing action and a fighting mechanics. Mafia's action is realistic and exciting. 
 You and your enemies will only take a few hits to the body. A head shot or a shot to the heart 
 will drop enemies immediately, while limb shots will make them limp away screaming. Mafia makes 
 you intelligently approach situations - no guns blazing, although there are times where you can 
 whip out your Tommy-gun and plow enemies down in the typical mobster fashion.
  
  The missions in Mafia are interesting, complex and rewarding as each time you pass a mission, you 
 see a movie that further moves the story along and tells you how you helped the family. Some of 
 the missions are so interesting and rewarding you will want to play them again. One mission, the 
 race, has been told that it is too hard for some, not for me, but a patch was released to make 
 it easier for frustrated persons. Despite this - I found all missions at a good level of challenge 
 and difficulty and their progression as such was just.
  
  Music in the game is cinematic of that you would find in a mobster movie and is period specific 
 and appropriate which only further to set the mood. It is orchestral ranging from dramatic to pleasant 
 and is extremely well done. Though 1930's music is not everyone's choice or favorite - but Mafia 
 successfully makes this period music fit perfectly to the point that is enmeshed with world of 
 the game.
  
  Gamers should note that Mafia is not your typical GTA style game. It is more mature, in depth and 
 slower and realistically paced game. Some GTA players may not enjoy this, but I seriously doubt 
 it. I personally played each GTA game up to the release of this game and welcomed the change.
 
  
  In closing Mafia is one of the closest thing to an interactive movie possibly made in the video 
 gaming world. Mafia to this day is my all time favorite game. No game has captured my attention 
 so well and sucked me into the world it created. You will get lost in the world of Mafia and go 
 back in time. I have only positive things to say about this game and feel that every gamer should 
 play this game as simply put - it is a masterpiece and a piece of art for the gaming industry.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: silversame
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2008 5:04 am PT
Review:  I like that this game is with so good quality. This takes you to the 30's. Its a bit too short 
 but some missions are very hard . I like the free ride extreme mode and the prototype cars in this 
 game. I also like the story. Its very good for the year 2002 for video game. I don't see why people 
 say that this game is a rip-off for grand theft auto 3 because the games were released almost the 
 same time . Also they started making the mafia game before grand theft auto 3.
  The story in this game is very interesting and makes you wanna play more and more whit the realistic 
 weapons like : Thompson, Colt 1900 and more. I think that they should make a movie out of it or 
 not because mafia 2 is coming out autumn 2009. In mafia there were things like gas-stations and 
 police will try to catch you if you are faster than speed limit or you run through red lights. 
 Also when they spot your gun or you crash into a car or steal it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sardinar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 4:28 am PT
Review:  "Bastards!" - almost every character in the game...
  
  Ever felt a need for a game that is beautiful, action packed and delivers a story like no other? 
 Don't look any longer, it's there...
  
  The game starts you out as an average taxi-driver waiting for his next customer, just as you are 
 minding your own business - a car smashes into a building and two guys wearing a tuxedo stumble 
 out and ask for your help as they are being tailed by a bunch of gunners... this is where the story 
 starts. By helping them out, you almost unwillingly join their mafia gang... just because I don't 
 feel like spoiling you the game (if you haven't played yet) , I am going to stop right there.
  
  First of all, ever since the game starts, everything is incredibly believable. Mafia starts 
 out as a cut-scene with a bit of dialogue that is incredibly believable due to the real good voice 
 acting. As I mentioned before, this game has an incredibly story line... so good voice acting is 
 a must in all solid story based games. I haven't played Godfather, but I think that's it's score 
 mostly depended on it's story. Gangster games must have a good story and good action since it may 
 make or break the experience. Mafia has alot, I mean alot, of twists in the story that makes it 
 interesting, I like twists. There are no 'bads' about the storyline of the game... everything that 
 happens in there would follow the gangster way of living.
  
  Gameplay is very impressive. Mafia has alot of gunfire and slaughter going around and it is all 
 very entertaining. Some stealth aspects included (Like hitting someone with a bat in a back of a 
 head) , the AI of the enemies fought is very good due to the fact that they hide behind objects 
 and get closer whenever you don't shoot. Mafia includes some close range combat with usual town 
 thugs. It even includes that some sports-car racing! Overall, you can never get bored because the 
 gameplay is never repetitive and always has a new sound to it. The game itself lasts for roughly 
 12-16 hours so you will be having fun a lot! Also, when you're finished with the game - you may 
 play some Freeride Extreme with missions that don't follow the story and not nearly as serious 
 but you can get a tank car to ride around in normal Freeride and make fun of cops, will keep you 
 busy for another 5 hours or so.
  The Bads - Some people that like to have a continuing shoot outs may not like the bit where you 
 have to race in sports-cars. You may have to download a patch from the web that will decrease the 
 difficulty of racing because it took me almost forever to finish it, it is pretty hard. No multiplayer. 
 
  
  Graphics are superb for a game of 2002. The engine of the game is real good and if you look at 
 the trailers of upcoming Mafia 2 (can't wait) , they look like a movie! I liked the very distinct 
 shadows and the detail of the characters are great. There are no graphic glitches in the game. 
 
  The Bads - Some people may not like (I didn't) that when you're in the open town, you can see everything 
 that is frankly 10 yards or closer to you - everything over 10 yards will probably disappear unless 
 you get closer to it. I am sure the developers had done it for the sake of our PCs, but they could've 
 put an option in setting that will put everything back on.
  
  Overall, the problems listed above are pretty minor and will not be noticed by most people playing. 
 Game's story is the best I have seen yet and it is probably as good or better than Half-life's. 
 Gameplay and Graphics are superb. Overall, this game is so great I was no satisfied by it's pretty 
 long gameplay because it was so good, I wanted more! (Which I will get next fall) I would recommend 
 it to anyone.
  
  Graphics - 9
  Gameplay - 10
  Story - 10+
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mooch35
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  I don't even know where to begin there's so many great qualities about this game. If you're looking 
 at this now, someone may have told you about it or you read about it somewhere. It came out in 
 2002 and you would think the graphics look like crap being that old but they really don't look 
 half bad. Playing the life of Tommy going from a cab driver to a respected mafioso is quite an 
 amazing experience. 
  
  I'll just point out some highlights:
  Controls are very easy to get used to
  
  As I mentioned earlier, graphics don't look too bad 
 considering its 6 years old
  
  Incredible storyline - You'll never want to stop because every mission is just as intense as the 
 previous one.
  
  I love hearing the music in this game. I catch myself humming along while I'm playing. Great sound 
 effects too.
  
  Overall, it beats any other mafia-like game out there such as The Godfather.
  
  In my book, 
 it's in the top ten best games of all time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DHILLON26
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  this is one of the best game i ever played...
  highly addictive. the game-play is fantastic and
  the storyline is awesome.. never got bored
 
  graphics are detailed and nice .was not expected from such an old game. everything is done extremely 
 well by the developers it feels as if you are in a real world. all characters in the game seems 
 real and unforgettable ..
  must say better than gta series!!!!! play again and again and u will never get bored at any stage 
 in the game .at last the ending was exceptionally good. wasn't expecting such an ending. it made 
 this game better then the best
  must buy for die hard gamers and no cheats for this game an added point to experience this game 
 fully....
  thanks illusion software for this wonderful game ...
  eagerly wait in for mafia 2 (pc) to hit streets soon..... hoping it to be better than the best (mafia) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sazvan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 3:36 am PT
Review:  Mafia simply is an amazing game.
  The sound+mood is fantastic, and really adds something great to both the gameplay and story. The 
 graphic is good too, tough some details are not that great.
  The gameplay is very good and satisfying.
  The only problem tough is that you drive around to 
 much, but that doesn't really matter then you are finally at your destination.
  The story of the game however is the most fantastic about this masterpiece, it will always leave 
 you wishing for more, which will satisfy you while you are playing.
  Tommy Angelo, your character is a good guy doing bad things, and that is a very good thing, because 
 he is not killing people for fun, and that way you will not hate him, and much more importantly 
 not think that it is right to do what he is doing.
  The story also brings up many of the elements that should be in any mafia/gangster story, (like 
 omert) and with the most perfect ending for this game or any gangster/mafia movie, this masterpiece 
 tells one of the greatest stories of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FabulousGamer90
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2008 7:24 am PT
Review:  Mafia is a mature version of GTA. You have the open-world environment, many different cars that 
 you can steal at any point, police everywhere and some highly engaging action sequences. The differences 
 are, that Mafia has much stricter consequences for everything you do. You could get into a long 
 cop chase, but they will most likely back you into a corner and arrest you or kill you. You could 
 run into a mission guns blazing, but you will most likely be killed on the spot. You could step 
 down on the accelerator and go as fast as possible, but you're likely to crash into something and 
 die or have the police chasing you. Mafia is pretty realistic as far as consequences for your actions 
 go. Unlike GTA which is quite silly and arcadey (although also damn fun too, i'm not saying it 
 isn't.)
  
  Mafia begins in 1930 and spans 8 years, and every couple of missions it skips forward a few years. 
 The story is fantastic; one of, if not the very best story i've ever seen in a video game. You 
 get so attached to the main characters, and especially nearing the end of the game you'll be feeling 
 all kinds of emotions to them if you've followed the story well enough. The world around you changes 
 too as time goes on, while in 1930 there are very basic cars, in 1939 you'll be seeing some sports 
 cars. The characters all age a little too and begin to dress differently and act a little differently. 
 The whole thing is topped off with some fantastic voice acting, and very fitting musical scores 
 and sound effects. (the main theme in particular is spectacular.. I extracted it from the game 
 and have it in my music folder) The graphics, although bad now, aged very well too. Up until a 
 few years ago I was still impressed with some of the facial expressions and the way the cars dent 
 and shine realistically. Anyway, it all rounds off to a very immersive experience.
  
  The gameplay is pretty simple. Its basic TPS controls, and basic driving controls; the difficulty 
 is somewhere in the high-medium to low-hard area, usually requiring you to take things slowly through 
 levels and working out where the bad guys are, so that when you inevitably die you will know how 
 to kill them on your second go. You can get your ass handed to you on some levels, but once you've 
 got your bearings you should finish them fine, and theres a great satisfaction when you do. You 
 can explore the city, and surrounding countryside in some situations, there isn't a whole lot to 
 do but theres some cool sights to take in. You have to obey traffic laws, (theres a speed limiter 
 key, and you have to stop at red lights if police are around) which some people find tedious and 
 annoying. Personally I find it one of the best aspects of the game. I'm all for realism as long 
 as its fun, and I dont find anything particular 'un-fun' about obeying some traffic laws, its just 
 a bit of extreme realism that adds to the feeling of being there. Once you get a little further 
 into the game you'll have cars which are good enough to escape cops anyway so you can just high-tail 
 it back home if thats what you want to do.
  
  Mafia stumbles only on a few things. Theres a terrible section a few levels in where have to race 
 on a racing track against opponents. It doesn't fit in with the rest of the game at all, it serves 
 no purpose in the overall story, and its overly difficult and boring. Thankfully, patches lower 
 the difficulty but certainly don't make it good. If you're having difficulty on it, use a trainer 
 cheat to make it an instant win. Believe me, your experience in the game will be better for it.
 
  There are also some boring taxi driving sections after the first level at the start of the game, 
 which take a little while and would have been better as a short cutscene.
  Finally, some people have problems with driving around to everywhere they go, including driving 
 to and from missions back to the bar; and also with the traffic laws. I personally didn't find 
 any of that annoying, but its a common annoyance among a lot of people who play Mafia, so I should 
 bring that up.
  
  Mafia took me around 17 hours to complete on my first playthrough. Most games take me around 8, 
 so thats an awesome time. And its also fantastically replayable; which is great because usually 
 I have to juggle the two.. The games that are long are usually not replayable because half of it 
 is artificially lengthened, and replayable games are usually highly enjoyable but very short. I've 
 finished Mafia so many times i've lost count, so I can easilly claim the "100 hours or more" time 
 spent.. I would even say around 200! You can pick this up a very cheap price now. So go and get 
 it, because its absolutely one of the best, and most polished games i've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobraman007
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  This is a true cinematic adventure. Find out how to join the mob, do daily missions, and move up 
 the ladder in power and fame. Start as a cab driver who gets caught up in the seedy mafia world, 
 and wind up collecting protection money, stealing and smashing cars, cappin' rival gansters, walking 
 hot dames home, competing in a car race, and so many more realistic missions. 
  
  Camera views allow you to play from a variety of first and third person viewpoints. Controls are 
 EASY, and everything is clear and exciting. 
  
  A few points to make your game more fun:
  
  *Make sure to download the latest update patch. Otherwise some areas do not allow you to choose 
 the difficulty.
  
  *Print out a MAP and pin it to your wall. As you drive by things, you can make notes and add to 
 it. Also, use the compass and TAB button (hold it down) to see directions. 
  
  *When dropping off passengers in the beginning stage: listen carefully to WHICH EXACT SPOT they 
 want you to drop them off at (or things could get frustrating) . The girl wants you to drop her 
 off across the street from the theater (not in front of the actual theater) . 
  
  *If you want to get a gun, you can always kill a cop. BE CAREFUL THOUGH- the police cars will come 
 very soon after. I have a trick to run a cop over under a bridge. This way you won't get caught 
 or attract attention. If the police are on you, always keep them behind you, and circle (cop cars 
 are not good at circling) . Also, to ESCAPE the police, get out of your car near a subway, climb 
 the ramp, and either rest up there until things cool down, or ride the subway train.
  
  *When fist fighting groups of guys, run to an area that's tight and turnaround and swing shots; 
 this way only one person at a time can come at you. 
  
  *Use the "E" key to jump or climb things. This also works to cross the subway tracks to the other 
 side. 
  
  *Rent a few mafia movies before-hand to get into the atmosphere. 
  
  COBRAMAN SS
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: StealthKing93
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  This is the first game I have played in this genre on the PC and it is fun, and kind of like The 
 Godfather for the Playstation 2. But it needs so/so improvement with the graphics and alot of work 
 on the driving/steering! I liked the way you get in and out of the vehicle.. starting it etc. The 
 steering is very bad especially on turns. I wish the steering was like it was in The Godfather 
 game, everything was handled better. The guns were fun but there shouldn't be crosshairs, we need 
 more realism in every single game or at least 100% realism! I was glad the game had subtitles, 
 as every game should have them because there are alot of hardof hearing gamers out there like me! 
 I always judge a game for its graphics, sounds, gameplay, and how long it is. And for all this 
 I will give this game an 8.5!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nhut091293
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 23, 2008 2:02 am PT
Review:  Mafia is set in the 1930s, between the fall of 1930 through to the end of 1938, during the later 
 part of Prohibition, which ended in 1933. The game is set in the fictional American city of 'Lost 
 Heaven' (loosely based on New York City and Chicago of the same time period) .
  
  The player takes the role of taxi driver Thomas (Tommy) Angelo, who, while trying to make a living 
 on the streets of Lost Heaven, unexpectedly and unwillingly becomes involved in organized crime 
 as a driver for the Salieri crime family, led by Don Salieri.
  
  Through the events of the game's story, Tommy begins to rise through the ranks of the Salieri 'family', 
 which is currently battling the competing Morello family, led by the sharply-dressed Don Morello. 
 Eventually becoming disillusioned by his life of crime and violence, Tommy arranges to meet a detective 
 (Detective Norman) in order to tell him his story, to be given witness-protection, and to aid the 
 detective in the destruction of the Salieri crime family. The 'Intermezzo' chapters of the game 
 depict Tommy sitting in a cafe with the detective, relating his life story and giving out important 
 pieces of information at the same time.
  
  The Police department in Lost Heaven uphold the various laws that have been set. When these laws 
 are broken in view of the police, they will respond. Offenses can be minor or serious offenses. 
 Minor offenses will end up with the player being fined (-$1,000 in Freeride mode, no monetary value 
 in campaign mode) , and serious offenses can lead to the player being arrested for the first offense, 
 or a shootout with the police until you or they are dead. A series of four successive minor offenses 
 will lead to the players arrest. Police force increases with the severity of the player's disregard 
 of the law to a point where now well armed police form blockades with tire spike strips in attempt 
 to defeat the player while firing from behind their armored cars.
  
  Certain criminal acts you would expect to warrant a response from the police do not occur, such 
 as: driving on the sidewalk, driving on the wrong side of the road, and ignoring yield and do not 
 enter signs (in the early stages of game development, these were supposed to be considered as an 
 offense but were later changed) .
  
  I; m waiting for Mafia 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unseenforcez
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Car race steeering is bad, fish tails way too easily. Where's the cheat to use a faster car? Id liek 
 to be able to choose.
  Like the real fast euro car right before the race mission, why not add that as a cheat, that would 
 have been awesome, yes the steering on this game in the race will make you wanna tear your hair 
 out. If you go a liilte to the left it goes way to the left, try and straighten up and it starts 
 spinning out. Richard Petty couldn't drive these cars and win a race. SO poor poor controls. The story 
 goes like it wants to, without the player having much power to make choices, so thats very limiting.. Music 
 is very cool. Bugs when firing guns almost all the time
  
  
  Its no GTA vice city thats for sure, atleast provide decent cheats if ur gonna have a mediocre game. If 
 i bought it i would have returned it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackout_06
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 12, 2008 12:38 am PT
Review:  The name of the game isn't so convincing, but for God's sake play it. I don't think any game of 
 its genre can be compared with Mafia.
  
  The graphics are superb, too good to explain in words. The game has very good texture quality and 
 sharp 3D graphics, which when combined with its ultra realistic physics engine, gives you a hell 
 of an experience, especially in coordination with its excellent gameplay.
  
  As I said, the gameplay is simply marvellous, and quite difficult too. Sometimes it becomes so 
 difficult that you have the impression that the AI adapts to your style of play. The game features 
 some intense shooting and innovative gameplay. Even if you have the best weapons of the game, getting 
 rid of your enemies may prove difficult as they themselves perform side rolls and try to dodge 
 your bullets. The game applies physics to everything you do-driving, shooting etc. Like if you 
 shoot a man in the head against a wall, the blood is splattered on the wall and the man slides 
 down and hits the floor with his back against the wall. In driving if you try to to take a sharp 
 turn while going at high speeds, the car may topple. The cops are also sharp witted and will try 
 to liquidate you tactically, etc...... The gameplay is really overwhelming.
  
  The sound effects are also one of a kind, the sound of a gun sounds as if a real shot has been 
 fired. The music could have been better and could have had more variety, but hey, what more do 
 you expect.
  
  The storyline is excellent and has many twists and turns, and the end is totally awesome. I don't 
 want to spoil the suspense, so let's not talk about it anymore.
  
  Overall, Mafia is a game you would not want to miss out on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjp15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Mafia has you playing as Thomas Angelo, a taxi driver during the 1930's, who quickly gets pulled 
 in by a local Mafia family ran by Don Salieri. Many people would be quick to call Mafia a GTA clone, 
 but they would be sorely mistaken.
  
  Firstly the characters and story in Mafia help to draw you in to the game and have you actually 
 caring what happens to these people. While GTA has you cast as a (mostly) bad person. Mafia has 
 you cast as a guy who is somewhat down on his luck during the depression era and is doing these 
 things so that he can earn enough money to survive.
  
  The majority of the game is spent driving around the beautifully rendered City of Lost Heaven (New 
 York) . You can see many events occurring in the city and it makes you feel as if every person has 
 their own agenda.
  
  The cars stay very close to the era as it takes you quite a while to reach max speed and going 
 up steep hills can often cause you to slow to a crawl. The gun fights are nothing truly revolutionary. 
 You have your shotgun, machine guns pistol etc. but they get the job done. You can also travel around 
 the city in elevated trams which I found surprisingly fun to do.
  
  Overall Mafia is one of the best games about a mafia family to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freak2121GTAF
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 5, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  The game is just simply amazing, with cars from 1928 to 1938 this game blows your mind away.
  Gameplay. The game play is a bit similar to grand theft auto 3 with guns and jacking cars but that's 
 where it ends. The game has a linear storyline as well as some extras such as free ride where you 
 drive around town and free ride extreme where you do some wacky/weird/insanely hard missions to 
 unlock prototype cars and those cars go FAST.
  
  Story line.
  The story is about Tomas Angelo a cab driver who finds him self joining the Mafia. (Not saying more 
 to not spoil it for you.
  
  Graphics.
  The graphics of mafia are simply amazing with real-time shadows not the old square/circle under 
 the player/car which was used in GTA 3/Vice city.
  
  Difficulty.
  The game ranges from "Just right" to "Hard" But missions have an automatic save feature so you 
 can learn from your mistakes. ;)
  
  Cars. (My favourite word)
  The detail on cars is simply amazing and with a similar damage system to that of GTA IV it just 
 makes car lovers love it more with over 60 cars from 1928-1938. :)
  
  Overall Mafia is one hell of a game and anyone who has not tried it should.
  With mods like Unlimited 
 Draw distance, CoLD mod and airplane mod this game will never die until Mafia 2 comes out and becomes 
 mod-able. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpph
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  mafia is set in the 1930s in a chicago style city, called the city of lost heaven. you play a taxi 
 driver called tommy angelo who gets sucked into the life of a mafioso.
  the story is sublime, very well told and it really sucks you in. the end is incredibly moving, 
 by the end of the game you feel as though you really know the characters. 
  the gameplay is also excellent, and very unforgiving, it doesn't take many hits to kill you, and 
 time and again you will be frustrated by some opposing gang member waiting round the corner with 
 a shotgun!
  the cars handle very realistically though at first you wil find them very slow and tedious. unlike 
 gta you cannot easily evade the cops unless you are very skilled, which makes it a great challenge.
 
  you unlock cars as you go along, and its genuinely exciting jumping into a car that can finally 
 outrun a cop!
  there are a nice selection of authentic weapons, which like everything else are authentically difficult, 
 for example the tommy gun is extremely tough to fire, because of the kick, unless you do so in 
 bursts.
  the only way in which it is behind gta is that gta has more in it, but then again gta is newer 
 so perhaps thats unfair.
  allover this is an utterly brilliant game, very nearly perfect and one which you really cannot 
 afford to miss! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShooterSammy
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  This game ROCKS!!! The Best Graphics in 2002. I Finished it more than 10 times and i'm not bored 
 of this game. The story, the graphics, the sound and the gameplay, all are great. Check the music, it's 
 from '30 era. After me this game should be in top 100 Best Games ever. I think i will never get bored 
 of this game. It's very hard to describe this game but in 1 simple word this game is GREAT. The Missions 
 are quite different and some of them are hard like "The Harbor" from "You Lucky Bastard". That part 
 of mission took much time for the first time i tried it. And there are many cars from that era.
 
  
  I don't like the end because Paulie, Sam and Tommy are all killed and they killed each other. Sam 
 killed Paulie and Tommy killed Sam and in the very end Tommy will be killed by 2 men sent by Salieri. But 
 this game will Rock FOREVER. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mohitmukheja
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 10:04 am PT
Review:  This is such an amazing game that i think i have played it more than once. story is very interesting 
 and engaging. u will get more options or cars and guns as the story unfolds...
  some people find the game mechanics no good but i say that the game was made in 2002 and also the 
 scene is set as old times, so it is still amazing.
  please dont compare it with the games of this age or 2008. for 2002 and thats when i played it.. 
 there werent many games of this calibre.. a must game for player who likes action and rpg... u 
 will love it.
  i am giving it 9.0 as the graphics sound gameplay .. everything is so nice...
  unlikeother games, 
 the missions are different in difficulty and content.. u will not get bored just because u have 
 to do same stuff over and over again... 
  not only this the story also becomes interesting and engaging..\the best part is when u are done 
 with the story a new mode opens in which u have to do missions and earn cars.. 
  and dont think that these are ordinary card and ordinary missions..
  these are special cars and 
 u have to do special missions to earn them.
  this adds a lot to the fun.
  also many custom modes are available by which u can make ur own missions and have fun... 
  final 
 words are.. get it now... have have fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bullrog
Rating: 6
Date: May 24, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  After hearing alot of good reviews for this game, I decided to try it out, and I after playing 
 the game, I am baffled as to why.
  
  Mafia takes place during the 1930's between the years 1930 and 1938. You assume the role of taxi 
 driver turned mafioso Tommy Angelo, who while trying to make a living on the fictional streets 
 of Lost Heaven, unwillingly becomes involved in organized crime as a driver for the Salieri crime 
 family. The story is fairly good and has excellent voice acting, but when it comes to actually 
 playing the game, its no where near as good.
  
  The first mission of the game has you escorting two of your soon-to-be mafia mates, Paulie and 
 Sam as you try lose a car full of rival gangsters.
  Now, I understand this is the 1930's and the cars back then werent as fast as they are today, but 
 come on, atleast exaggerate it a little to atleast make the driving fun. You are forced to try 
 and make your getaway while of the other car is constantly shooting. The other car must have had 
 some kind early form of nitrous in their car, because theirs is of course faster than yours. They 
 then proceed to run you off the road into a lamppost or wall or whatever and shoot the guy in the 
 car you are trying to protect. You then have to repeat the mission another umpteen times before 
 completing the mission out of sheer dumb luck. The unfortunate thing is a majority of the missions 
 in this game are beaten this way.
  
  The game is also a little too realistic. I am all for realism in a game, but when it comes to failing 
 a mission not because you got shot, but because you ran a red light or were caught speeding, and 
 eventually were cornered by police cars, that just takes alot of fun out of the game and is just 
 plain stupid.
  
  Another major part of the game besides driving is shooting. The shooting for the most part in this 
 game is good. That is as long as you are on foot. when you get behind the wheel and try to shoot 
 its basically impossible. For some reason you are able to shoot cars, but the driver is pretty 
 much invincible while driving. Of course, these rules only apply to the bad guys and not you as 
 you and your passengers can easily be riddled with bullets.
  
  There was also on other thing in this game that annoyed me, and that is the minimap. In open world 
 games like this and others like GTA, its essential to have a good minimap so that you know where 
 you are going. This game does not have that. The in-game minimap merely shows you the cars on the 
 road and nothing else. no roads. no nothing. its completely useless. The only thing guiding you 
 is a vague compass arrow that points you in the general direction of where you are supposed to 
 go, but not before you car runs out of gas from being completely lost. There is an actual map in 
 the game that you can bring up during gameplay and it actually HAS roads on it. Unfortunately this 
 map also takes up almost the entire screen, and even though the map is translucent, it still makes 
 it hard to drive. you also have to accidentally stumble upon this map, as it doesnt tell you about 
 it in the tutorial. I just don't see why the developers couldnt have made this the in-game minimap.
 
  
  In the end, Mafia is a bad game, its just not a very good one. If you are thinking about getting 
 this because of all these good reviews, don't. you will be wasting your money. If you are looking 
 for a similar game to this, get The Godfather, its alot more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: souaden12
Rating: 10
Date: May 23, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Sometimes I just can't understand why is the game underrated???
  
  While some games like GTA are so boring and ridicules,, they still get a high scores,, But games 
 like mafia,, get the low scores
  
  Mafia is a great game,, if not the greatest ever. So,, anybody who didn't play the game or thinks 
 it's disappointing,, well do your self a favor and play the game,, believe me you'll enjoy so much.
 
  
  By the way,, there are many things in this game better then GTA.
  
  Take for example the characters, the missions,, the storyline.
  
  you can't compare GTA with 
 Mafia,, Mafia is way better and more enjoyable,, the storyline especially makes the game amazing,, 
 not the the storylines of GTA which doesn't make any bloody sense.
  
  Mafia II is coming whether this year or the next year,, I advise everybody to save their money 
 for this game instead of wasting it on GTA IV 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avishkar14
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 29, 2008 5:03 am PT
Review:  Well I played Mafia a month back as many people had recommended me to play it. Even in the year 
 2008, the graphics never looked bad. The cutscenes were good and although there were glitches in 
 the game and some hit detection issues, I never complained about it since this game is 6 years 
 old.
  
  Thomas Angello or Tommy is the main character of the game and it really feels good to play as him. 
 He is a taxi driver who joins Salieri to earn some money and change his fortune. The missions are 
 pretty exciting and challenging. Some missions like 'Fairplay' 'The Whore', and the last mission 
 [ don't remember the name] are really good.
  
  The best part of the game is the story. It is really touching and has an extremely emotional ending. 
 The game explains the story very nicely to us and we also get to know Tommy's bonding with all 
 the gang members.
  
  Soundtrack is good and reminds us of the 1930s which is a good thing as this game is set in that 
 time period. Dialogues seem to be a bit cheesy sometimes but are fun to hear nevertheless.
  
  I think this is a game which every PC Gamer should play. It's definitely a hard game but you 
 will love it once you get your hands set. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotbodyboy_2006
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  MAFIA, this game was given to me by my friend in 2003!! I played this game that time!! I gotta 
 say this game is one hell of a Classic which can never be forgotten!! Especially the Ending which 
 is really Surreal and the dialogs are an absolute Peach!!
  
  Even after 5 years i played this game in a core 2 duo and 1200 X 1024 resolution!! Graphics is 
 not so great as today's time and not as much as san andreas, but i got to say, even after 5 years 
 i remembered each and every mission. moment in the game and that's the Greatness of this game which 
 i am sorry to say you wont find in a GTA game.
  
  The game starts out with a guy named Thomas Angelo, you, the main character!! You are initially 
 a taxi driver!! A mafia gang is chased by cops and their car stops for some reason and it stops 
 near your taxi!! They catch you and force you to help them escape!! You do it they get impressed 
 and the don leader Saliere gives you quite a lot of money for that!! Money is called DOUGH in this 
 game and i loved it!! 
  
  The money lures Thomas and he joins the Salieri gang and together with his newly found allies Paulie, 
 Sam, Ralph, Vincenzo, Frank they battle it out against Don Morello!! Thomas also gets married with 
 a girl named Sarah!!
  
  The game is damn realistic!! IF you break the speed limit cops are behind you, guns are tough to 
 handle and realistic i. e if you reload you lose the entire cartridge!!
  
  The only think i found frustrating about this game was the cars which are so fragile that they 
 turned upside down with a mere turn!! But that's a minor issue and cars those days really really 
 SUCKED!!
  
  The story is the best thing about this game that really gets you involved!! A Must play for everyone 
 atleast ONCE in their life!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raihan_07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Mafia is the name of a game that I can never forget. My friend influenced me to play it. At first 
 when I started to play I thought it is an ordinary game. But after some time it became a destiny 
 for me to finish it. The story line, graphics, climax, sound, objects, game play everything inspire 
 me even now. That's why I'm desperately waiting for Mafia 2. Its graphic is stunning. Its graphic 
 is very simple and relevant for this type of game and storyline. Sound is very good. Music has 
 matched with the game environment. There are plenty of weapons, ammos, cars in this game. I never 
 felt bore while playing this game. That time I was very depressed with the ending of the game. 
 But I'm very happy now with the Mafia 2 Announcement. I hope this time it will be as enjoyable 
 as before. Play it. Enjoy it. Bye everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _EXCON_
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  PLAIN FUN
  
  Mafia at first seemed very cool. The graphics are solid for its time and it had a very interesting 
 story and setting. I've never seen a game or even that many movies set in the 30's that focus on 
 crime in the United States. Sure there have been tons of World War games that take place around 
 this time but this game doesn't have anything to do with World War II. 
  
  The voice acting and graphics are well done and since the game's fairly old, doesn't take a killer 
 rig to run the game. All the cars, clothing, and style of the 30's seem to be well represented. 
 The game doesn't have much artistic quality to it but that's alright as the game has taken a more 
 "realistic" look approach. 
  
  That being said the gameplay's dull. The beginning of the game is spent with a large amount of 
 time simply driving everywhere. The cars are from the 30's so don't expect any killer cars drifting 
 around corners. After doing so many getaway escapes, taxi driving, and simply driving your Mafia 
 friends to certain places, the driving gets old pretty quick and there's quite a bit of it.
  
  The shooting would have been alright as running and strafing feels good but a lot of it is 
 done indoors. The game becomes problematic indoors, the camera does a descent job but the third 
 person view isn't meant for close quarters. This makes shootouts inside frustrating as enemies 
 come up behind you point blank range and start shooting. I can understand the game trying to be 
 realistic but the guns just don't have that ompf feel to it. Enemies take a ton of shots unless 
 you score headshots perfectly which in this game, especially close quarters is no easy task. 
 
  
  The missions in Mafia just kill this game for me. They're no fun, it could have been a great game 
 but they should have eased up on the realism and made it a more flushed out shooter with less tedious 
 missions. I haven't played a lot through this game but I just can't keep going through it. It's 
 just too dull of a game. I can't help but feel this game's a washed down version of Grand Theft 
 Auto. Maybe, the early 30's in Little Italy isn't just the place for a video game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_High_Lux
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  Now, not many game developers like their games being copied, I am sure and I think this has probably 
 been brought up with Mafia several times. It may be like Grand Theft Auto, same controls, similar 
 environments and brilliant cut scenes. But I think Mafia distinguishes itself from the rest, it 
 doesn't try to be GTA *cough cough*" true crime..." 
  
  The game is set in the 1930's and you follow the story of a young Tommy Angelo, a cab driver with 
 a stable life and good income. But on one fateful night he is spun into a spiralling downfall into 
 the dark world of the mafia, queue big opening scene, plenty of smart Italian suits and big cigars. 
 You start off with very small jobs, helping out here and there, but as the respect is earnt by 
 a variety of ways (smashing rival mafias vehicles up, killing trouble makers, stealing cars) you 
 are slowly accepted into 'The Family'. Now if no one knows what this means, a family is a close 
 knit of gangsters, not necessarily blood related who 'look after' each other. Most of your time 
 in the city of Lost Heaven is driving about in classic cars that are more important in looks than 
 speed, but this doesn't matter, you can enjoy the views that city has to offer you, pedestrians 
 milling about and the odd dodgy driver cutting you up. Now all this law breaking behaviour cannot 
 be ignored, there are hordes of police officers waiting to stop you speeding, arrest you for brandishing 
 weapons in public or even running a old women over, I thought this was a bit harsh, she just walked 
 out in front of me! 
  
  The little things in this game impressed me, for instance by pressing F4 automatically put a speed 
 limit on your car, preventing you from being put down for excessive speeding. The fact that the 
 characters you meet all have very distinct personalities. The environment was accurately designed 
 and the city came alive. 
  
  I don't remember why I decided to buy the game, maybe due to my obsession with gangsters, the title 
 was a winner. Now I don't have a particularly good pc, so have never been able to enjoy Mafia at 
 its best, but game play overall is great. And the playability is very high.
  
  My final words would be, if you have a PC and a mouse plus keyboard, buy this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ekstrakt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  I'm almost speechless about Mafia. Such beautiful game, so much fun. Simply one of the best of 
 all times.
  The game has very nice graphics, realistic portraying a big city like New York in the 1930's. The 
 buildings, the cars, the people, all is made perfect. The driving in the game is very realistic, 
 making the game almost a driving simulation.
  The music in the game is one of the best there is. Authentic to the time the game is set in (1930's) , 
 with all the jazz and swing that was popular in those years. It has smooth jazz, music from the 
 great jazz&swing orchestras, simply jazz at it's basic form.
  You'll feel that you are a part of the city, of the time. The story is classic. All we know and 
 don't know about the Mafia is there.
  The gameplay is also great. Very simple, not demanding. 
  
  Overall, as I said, this is one 
 of the BEST games of All Times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metalslug2k
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  You've seen it before, right? Every game has its own hardcore fan community that swears up and 
 down their game is the best on the market. So when I swear up and down that Mafia is one of the 
 best games EVER on the PC, you probably don't believe me. All I can say is it's your loss if you 
 don't try this game. Mafia is one of those games that people play years after its release and kick 
 themselves for not picking it up earlier. The game takes place in the days of abolition and Al 
 Capone gangsters
  
  The engine is a 3rd person shooter and while the game is action oriented, it has one heck of a 
 story to go with it. The game is historically authentic with the gamer being allowed to drive a 
 variety of classic cars as well as wield classic weapons from the days of the 1920's gangsters. 
 There were a few missions in this game that I played at least five times just to enjoy them again. 
 If I could compare this game to anything on the market, it would be a vastly improved Grand Theft 
 Auto 3.
  
  Mafia is about as close as you'll ever get to playing a role as a gangster fighting against the 
 Untouchables and you'll never forget the story and the final conclusion of this classic. If you 
 own a console, Mafia is finally being brought to some of them but I recommend you try the PC version 
 instead because obviously it's cheaper, but the graphics are fantastic with a good video card and 
 the shooting mechanics are easier to control with a mouse and keyboard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface_u2
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2008 1:28 am PT
Review:  Mafia is a must have played game its 6 yrs on now and the best news is finally that Ilusion Softworks 
 and Gathering Developers have finally made a sequel.
  (was it my constant E-mails that finally got you to make Mafia 2) just kidding NOT!!
  Illusion 
 softworks is like Bethesda and Rockstar makers of story driven, thought provoking, ground breaking 
 expansive games.
  
  The people who take gaming to a sublime level.
  What a great year with 2 of the ultimate 3 releasing new chapters Mafia 2 and GTA lV storys that 
 we get to take be the lead role
  
  Personally i think it will be a sad day if EA get there hands on Take 2
  heres hoping that the 
 Gamers give them the bird. Let them go make a new sports sim all Ea is good for is reminding you 
 of the year as in such titles as 07/08 an coming soon the 09 version.
  
  The most respected developer's are the ones who make games out of the love for games and not for 
 the love of money.
  
  lf....... you're old enuff to play this game GET to it.
  For the people who dont rate this game 9+ id love to know what medication you're on.
  
  This 
 is a game for people who shave, so maybe thats were they fall short....
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brouwerder
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  looking back on this game it really has an impressive aura that kept me hooked for 5 years of and 
 on...
  to start off with a small comparison of mafia and GTA
  which has always been my favourite game sindce part 1 launched it always missed something (gta 
 that is) and that would be a steering wheel compatibility for me.
  the fact u kept 3rd peeping the game made it arcade to me.
  now mafia came out and i started 
 playing it, i got totally hooked on the game's atmosphere. you basicly have a solid shooter (really 
 solid!)
  and a solid racegame here (semi solid but loads of fun)
  
  shooting was awesome in mafia yes, crouching and headshooting ppl with awesome weapons from that 
 area always been good to me.
  but the driving was the best of all. 1st of all u can shoot while u drive out the window with you 
 left hand aiming with your mouse and driving with your steering wheel (try that for once ITS FUN 
 !)
  and you have old cars driving 40 km p/h up to the 40's formula 1 cars going 150 km p/h and then 
 as a reward you have custom cars like hotrods!!! those are the **** btw :) manaul transmissions, 
 speed limiters all contributed to a real feeling driving through a real city..
  the interiors of the game are awesome as well, only problem is they are keyed into scripts from 
 missions, which basicly denies you the acces or fun when roaming normally. not to bad tho sindce 
 u can load up everything i wont stop at that seeing its been a early release comparing to todays 
 games...
  
  when u finish it it will unlock a new mode to roam in. there u have a base of operations with a 
 garage and a door u can open and close. and you can earn the hotrods (unlock them through missions)
 
  theres also new mobs around everywhere to help you have fun and a boatload of mods .
  from a cool 58 dodge charger to firetrucks or from big new houses to complete overhauls
  
  
 a must have for all gta fans with steerng wheels
  a founder of modern roaming games and soon the prequel to the sequal!!!! muhahahaha /evillaugh 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angelofdev
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2008 5:59 am PT
Review:  This game is an instant classic, it has the best storyline ever made for a game. Difficulty of 
 the missions are perfect its not too hard and not easy. The control system is designed perfectly 
 for this type of game. The character voices have been done exceptionally well. From the cars to 
 the clothes the people on the streets wear to the music that is played, it makes you feel as if 
 you are in the same era.
  
  Great graphical design from the buildings, weapons and cars to the people and explosions, the Artificial 
 Intelligence (AI) of the enemies isn't too bad, sometimes you have to get up from your nice and 
 warm defensive spot to kill the remaining coward. No matter how many times you finish this game, 
 at some point in the future you will want to play it again.
  
  Simply put, the best mafia style game ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Gameinator
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 29, 2008 9:27 pm PT
Review:  If you are a fan of the GTA series you will love Mafia.
  
  Mafia is a game set in the 1930's where you play as Tommy Angelo a taxi driver whose fate turns 
 him in to one of the most respected gangsters in the city of Lost Heaven.
  
  As Tommy Angelo tells Detective Norman of his story of his lfe of being a gangster and you need 
 to do all of these jobs for your boss Don Salieri with two other gangsters that becomes your friends 
 to take on the big city of Lost Heaven to make your gang become the top gang in the 1930's.
  
  As Tommy Angelo you need to do jobs such as collect protection money, destroy the Morrelo family 
 and blow up hotels in massive explosive action.
  
  Mafia has had a big share of modding over the years to keep the game a good game but most of those 
 mods won't beat the epic storyline of Mafia.
  
  I think Mafia is the best game ever made!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobra_fox
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Mafia really does reflect the life of a 1930's gangster very well. I was instantly drawn into the 
 game with the way it opened up its story; this game uses its well developed storyline to move it 
 along making it feel like its flowing like a movie would. But in the process making the game far 
 more linear but this is not a bad thing it just far more story driven 
  
  The game is made up of driving and 3rd person shooting. The driving in this game is really authentic 
 all the cars behave like 1920's/1930's cars would many of them can't reach speeds of more than 
 70mph and taking corners at them speeds is suicidal, some cars don't even start up right away and 
 have some slightly dodgy transmissions and brakes. All the cars are all highly detailed (for 2002) 
 and have a detailed damage engine like tyre blowouts, leaking fuel tanks, breaking windows, trim 
 falling off. In car chases you and your passengers can shoot out at other vehicles like you would 
 see in a gangster movie leaving bullet holes and dead gangster slumped out of the windows. The 
 driving part is highly detailed so much so that you must obey the laws of the road like speed limits 
 and red lights otherwise the police will fine you or try to arrest you if you decide not to stop. 
 The 3rd person shooting in the game is very well done and you get a dent array of weaponry. (Including 
 the Tommy gun) The AI does tend to have a few dumb moments but mostly its minor and it is intelligent 
 enough to make your gaming experience a challenge.
  
  The city you play in is very large if you drive like to the laws of the road it will take you some 
 time to get from one side to another and you can even explore the country too, but it's very highly 
 detailed. The streets are filled with many different pedestrians and the roads have some heavy 
 traffic, the police are also commonly found walking the streets or patrolling the roads so if you 
 play recklessly expect many police shootouts or police chases.
  
  The game did have some highly detailed graphics for the time an in some ways its still pretty good 
 today but the low-res textures really show up close compared with newer games and there is some 
 clipping on some of the cutscenes, most of the detail has gone into the character models, weapons 
 and vehicles in the game so they look fairly impressive by today's standards. The sound in this 
 game is brilliant the music (apart from the ending credits) is authentic and really adds to the 
 mood of the era and the city is full of sounds of people, cars, trains and other noises that create 
 a realistic environment. There is also some fairly decent voice acting made in the game adding 
 to the mood of the era
  
  Overall this game has lots of detail you steal a car it may not have a full tank of fuel, you can 
 drive in a manual with a clutch, the cars even have their own mileage, in shoot outs you can seriously 
 maim your enemies and watch them crawl along the floor holding their gut, the city you play in 
 is completely alive the police are intelligent at stopping you with roadblocks cars realistically 
 break up the list can go on but now that this game is almost 6 years old its really cheap to get 
 hold of I got a copy for 5 so its no real loss if you don't like it but its worth a try as it 
 has an immersive story and a decent amount of replay value 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface46
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2008 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 10
  Value: 8
  Tilt: 10
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Mafia : The City Of Lost Heaven is a true masterpiece! Starting as a low-budget paying taxi driver, 
 Tommy Angelino's life changes as he saves a couple mob members from being shot down. As a reward 
 Salieri, the Don, thanks Tommy by giving him a offer to receive big money and to be part of a very 
 big organization. After a while of thinking over the offer, Tommy takes it. Furthermore, the gameplay 
 is amazing, much better than Grand Theft Auto 3, in my opinion. You go through many parts of New 
 York assassinating, robbing, protecting, and just gaining as much respect and honor. The sound 
 is perfect, very well acted and the graphics are just incredible especially for 2002. The environment 
 and everything were amazing but what catch my eye was the detail on the heads of the characters. 
 Anyway, after about every chapter or so you unlock different vehicles for free ride mode, which 
 is basically Mafia without the missions. Also, when you complete the game you unlock extreme free 
 ride mode where you can explore New York in the late 1930s with out the annoying police. Overall, 
 Mafia is an instant classic that must be played by all action game fans. As you grow from a taxi 
 driver to a mobster, you will learn how to steal cars and how to be a true gangster. If you think 
 your not going to like this game because of the traffic laws and the realism, think again, because 
 I thought I wasn't going to like this game for those reasons but I ended up loving it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AhmedYehia86
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  when i started to play this game i thought it was boring and difficult but when i used to it It 
 became very interisting game i think it the best game until now the most thing i loved in this 
 game is its story which is masterwork and the variety of missions as there are  
 and police chase
  and the mission are in diffierent areas as harbor, ship, airport ,city, art museum, hotel. villa, 
 bar and prison
  the graphic of the game is perfect for the year the game released and the sound ,music ,and gameplay 
 are perfct too.
  the old cars encyclopedia is also good idea which contain almost all cars before 1940 
  the game 
 is difficult in play and you must train for shooting and driving at first and you must know that 
 the ammo are limited and in most of game 
  you have weak weopons so you must shoot at heads reserve your ammo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tetrasoft
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  This action packed GTA style game really set the bar high with its story content and missions. 
 It really pulls you in as you follow along the life of your character. The free roam world and 
 period cars just make this game a joy to play. There is something about that period of time that 
 just makes this game work in all the right ways. If we are lucky we will be seeing a follow up 
 to this game as this title had the game-play and storyline to make it really a 10. If you love 
 the Godfather type themes you can not find a better game with turns that will keep ya on the edge 
 of your seat. I played this when it came out and again lately. Its worth playing today as a title 
 thats several years old but still has it in spades. GTA may have set the bar but this game jumped 
 it and put the polish where it needed to be and it shows. I 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  Autumn 1930, Lost Heaven
  "I WAS A TAXI DRIVER. EVEN THOUGH I WASN'T MAKING MUCH & WAS WORKING FROM DAWN TO DUSK, I WAS GLAD 
 TO BE WORKING"
  
  A normal person, a taxi driver, gets implicated in a car chase between two mafias,& manages to rescue 
 the two mobsters-Paulie & Sam,& brings them back to Salieri's bar. They are very gratefull & reward 
 him handsomely. They also make an offer for Tommy Angelo-to join the mob.
  At home, Tommy realises that there were a lot of money in the envelope he received, but doesen't 
 want to accept their offer. As his mother always said:
  
  "BETTER TO BE POOR & ALIVE, THAN RICH & DEAD"
  
  So next day he resumes work. But the gangsters 
 that followed him the last night caught him. Some way he manages to go to Salieri's bar,& the bad 
 guys tailing him get nailed by Salieri's men. He knows he has to accept the offer, so Salieri gives 
 him one simple job: wrecking some cars from Morello's mafia. He does fine & is welcomed to the family.
 
  
  "THEY WANTED TO OUTSMART US. SO WE HAD TO OUTSMART THEM.
  
  It's two years later when Tommy really stains his hands with blood, when collecting protection money 
 with his friends Paulie & Sam.
  Later on, Tommy wins a car race & starts to get respected by all the people in the neighbourhood.
 
  
  "YOU KNOW, THE MAFIA RUNS THE WHOLE CITY. COPS WOULD EVEN MOVE SHIPMENTS OF GOODS FOR US!"
  
 
  Tommy falls in love with the barman's daughter, Sarah. He tries to protect her as much as he can, because 
 Morello becomes more agressive & tries to liquidate Salieri.
  
  "A PERSON BECOMES DON BECAUSE OF HIS THIRST FOR POWER. THE BIG DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THEM WAS IN THEIR 
 METHODS. SALIERI BUILD HIS RESPECT AS A BUISNESSMAN. PEOPLE KNEW THAT IF THEY NEEDED HELP THEY COULD 
 COME TO MR. SALIERI. SO SALIERI MADE FRIENDS. MORELLO WAS JUST A MEAN BASTARD: HE BUILT HIS RESPECT 
 TROUGH VIOLENCE: EVEN HIS FRIENDS FEARED HIM."
  
  But Morello had a lot of politicians friends,& Tommy had just killed the Coucilor's son. So it was 
 really bad, because the police & Morello tried to defeat Salieri & his mafia.
  
  "PRAY FOR MY SOUL, FATHER." "I WILL, MY SON, I CERTAINLY WILL"
  
  Despite killing people, Tommy 
 makes a generous donation to a church,& gets the priest's appreciation.
  
  "BETTER DIE YOUNG, BUT LOADED"
  
  Tommy changes his opinion on being a mobster. He starts to 
 like it, to enjoy life as much as he could, but him & Paulie also start drinking, which doesen't please 
 Mr. Salieri. But Tommy stops when he is adviced by Frank to do so. He also gets married to Sarah 
 & has a kid.
  
  "YOUR BEST FRIEND KILLS YOU"
  
  That's what Frank said... but now he had to kill a friend. Frank exactly, who had broken the Omerta. But 
 he doesen't do it... he lets him get away in Europe. He also doesen't kill a girl who he had to kill 
 because she was Sarah's best friend.
  
  "SALIERI & MORELLO WERE BEST FRIENDS. NOW THEY'RE BIITER RIVALS."
  
  Tommy finds out that when 
 they were little, Morello & Salieri were best friends. But their thirst for power transformed them 
 into enamies. But when it came down to funerals, they forgot all about the war between the mobs & 
 acted as friends, because the mafia had great respect for dead members.
  
  "IF A ORDINARY MOBSTER LIKE ME COULD KILL THE MOST POWERFULL MAN IN THE CITY, THAN WHAT GOOD ALL 
 HIS POWER?" "NO MATTER HOW STRONG SOMEBODY IS, THERE IS ALWAYS SOMEONE STRONGER TO ELIMINATE HIM"
 
  
  So he finally got to it & managed to kill Morello. He was one of the most respected people in the 
 Mafia,& Salieri took over the whole city.
  
  "JESUS CHRIST, PAULIE!"
  
  Tommy & Paulie's thirst for power leads them to the conclusion that Salieri is screwing them, so 
 they do a bank robbery, thing that breaks the mafia's OMERTA, so Paulie gets killed. IT'S JUST BUISNESS
 
  
  "FRIENDSHIP AIN'T WORTH S**T!"
  
  Tommy finds himself trying to kill his friend Sam, who olso wanted to kill him. Sam tells him that 
 they found all about Frank & the whore ("YOU KNOW YOU CAN'T TRUST A DAME! I KNOW IT ISN'T EASY TO 
 KILL YOUR WIVE'S BEST FRIEND.") ."BUT THEY'LL GET YOU... ALL THE SAME... LIKE FRANK" "THEY FOUND HIM?" 
 "YOU ONLY LENGHTENED HIS LIFE, BUT IN THE END... THEY FOUND HIM... ALL THE SAME..."
  Tommy shoots Sam, than attends a meeting with inspector Norman,& gives evidence "AGAINST ALL THOSE 
 MEN... PEOPLE WHO I'VE BEEN FRIENDS WITH FOR 10 YEARS!"After the trial, Salieri gets behind bars,& 
 Tommy & his family get moved in another city. He started working for a respectable driving company...
 
  
  "MR ANGELO, MR SALIERI SENDS HIS REGARDS!"
  
  In the end, after many years, Tommy gets killed in front of his house. Mr Salieri has sent his regards...
 
  
  "YOU KNOW, THE WORLD ISN'T RUN BY THE LAWS WRITTEN ON PAPER. IT'S RUN BY PEOPLE: SOME ACCORDING TO 
 LAWS, OTHERS NOT. IT'S ABOUT EACH INDIVIDUAL HOW HIS WORLD WILL BE... HOW HE MAKES IT. BUT YOU ALSO 
 NEED A WHOLE LOTTA LUCK... SO THAT SOMEBODY ELSE DOESEN'T MAKE YOUR LIFE HELL...& IT AIN'T AS SIMPLE 
 AS THEY TELL YOU IN GRADE SCHOOL. BUT IT IS GOOD TO HAVE STRONG VALUES,& TO MAINTAIN THEM... IN MARRIAGE, IN 
 CRIME, IN WAR... ALWAYS & EVERYWHERE. I MESSED UP. SO DID PAULIE & SAM. WE WANTED A BETTER LIFE, BUT 
 IN THE END... WE WERE A LOT WORSE OFF THAN MOST OTHER PEOPLE... YOU KNOW, I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT TO 
 KEEP A BALANCE IN THINGS, YEAH, BALANCE, THAT'S THE RIGHT WORD.'CAUSE THE GUY WHO WANTS TO MUCH FROM 
 LIFE RISKS LOOSING ABSOLUTELLY EVERYTHING... OF COURSE, THE GUY WHO WANTS TOO LITTLE FROM LIFE... MIGHT 
 NOT GET ANYTHING AT ALL..."
  
  
  
  Mafia's story isn't just 
 a simple story the producers had to make up in order to build up the game. It contains key moments 
 from a gangster's life , life advice, call it however you want. But those quotes are almost saint 
 to me.
  Mafia's best part is the storyline I've just described, but there are other aspects I've got to 
 mention.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The graphics were absolutelly breathtaking back in 2002, when the game was released. Beautiful landscapes, beautifully 
 textures environment, characters, a great car damage engine...
  
  SOUND
  
  The sound is also amazing. I don't think I've ever heard such a convincing voice acting. The soundtrack 
 is great,& the in-game music is specific to those times & goes very well. The car/guns sound really 
 authentic & different one from another. The environmental sounds are also very convincing: birds 
 singing in forests, ships travelling in ports... everything.
  
  ATMOSPHERE
  
  I can't forget the mission A Trip To The Country. Near some barns, something was terribly wrong. I 
 got out of the car, the rain falling hard on the ground. Each lighnting, followed by a loud thunder. The 
 mill making a thrilling noise in it's rotation...& than the quiet. It was too quiet & I was afraid 
 to go on, believing that any step forward would lead to a shotgun blowing away my brains. I got too 
 scared, so I sheltered in a barn, listening at the rain outside... Or when in the prison tower, when 
 you start to hear strange noises above & I suddenly fear that some madman will come wielding knifes 
 & will chop me to little pieces... there are much more examples... the game really makes you feel 
 that you are THE CHARACTER, DOING WHAT YOU ARE SUPPOSED TO DO, not controlling a virtual pixel-character. It 
 makes the other characters FRIENDS or ENAMIES ,not just guys you you need/don't need to shoot.
 
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  At 6 years from it's release, Mafia is still my favorite game. No other made me love it the way I 
 love Mafia. What if the graphics are old now, what if the gameplay isn't 2008 standard? Hell, I've 
 finished the game over 20 times,& I've got so much more time to go... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Minigun_Fiend
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 10:59 am PT
Review:  Having been looking for the game for a while, I finally found Mafia in a bargain bin for 5, and 
 duly snapped it up, having heard that it is a great game, given many accolades by professional 
 reviewers and players alike.
  I was surprised to discover that it spans 3 CDs, and this built up my hopes for a long and satisfying 
 game.
  
  For those expecting a 'Grand Theft Auto: 1930' style game, although there are similarities between 
 Rockstar's behemoth and this, there are also many differences which give Mafia a unique feel.
 
  
  Launching the game for the first time, the menu screen looks impressive with its rendered background 
 of a mafioso office, even by today's standards.
  There's an option to view all the cars in the game, although this is really only an excercise for 
 vintage car fanatics to work out what each of the renamed cars is meant to be.
  
  Once you get into the game proper, you're greeted with a nice pre-rendered cutscene which introduces 
 you to the city, before a load-less transition into the 3D engine for a short introduction to the 
 storyline. You, Tommy, are a well-respected mafia member, but want to get out of the business, 
 so you must tell a police officer everything you have done or he can't provide protection. Or something 
 like that. 
  It's a pretty flimsy hook to hang the story on, but it provides a central point that the game returns 
 to every so often.
  
  The first mission in games of this sort is usually a simple one - go here and meet a few main characters, 
 for the most part (I refer to GTA3's initial challenge of simply driving a few blocks down at your 
 own pace before unleashing you upon the city) .
  Unfortunately, saying that Mafia drops you in at the deep end is a real understatement. From the 
 get-go you are required to lose a car tailing you.
  For any experienced gamer, this should be a snap, but the enemy car far outstrips your own in terms 
 of speed, and I had to restart this mission alone at least 4 times before I managed to complete 
 it out of pure luck.
  
  While I'm on the subject of pure luck, although there is a tutorial for the game which goes over 
 some basic controls, not once does it tell you how to bring up the mini-map (inexplicably not included 
 on the radar showing you car positions) , so I spent a little while trying to follow the vague directional 
 arrow on my screen before I accidentally hit Tab and found it showed me where I was expected to 
 go. 
  A design oversight, maybe, but it was responsible for yet another mission restart because the car 
 ran out of fuel before I could get to where I ws meant to go!
  
  The cars, as has been mentioned countless times, are 'authentically' recreated. This means, by 
 all intents and purposes, slow.
  I'm not one to complain about such things normally, but it is quite frustrating to be limited to 
 60-70mph in an average car, especially when if you go over 40mph the police are liable to chase 
 you.
  The game includes a speed limiter function, but it's just far too hard to lose cops once they are 
 on your tail, thanks to the return of the apparently rocket-powered AI cars.
  Of course, authenticity also means the handling, or lack thereof, is also recreated; so going over 
 50mph and trying to turn a corner usually ends up with you slamming into a wall or lampost.
  
  When you aren't driving, the game has plenty of opportunities to fill enemies full of lead. 
 Unfortunately, the games shooting mechanics simply aren't satisfying.
  While it is very nice to see spent shell casings and magazines littering the floor where a firefight 
 took place, it often takes far too many rounds to kill an enemy. 
  As an example, I present the thrilling chase across an airport to catch a turncoat being escorted 
 by the police. Once you get out of the irritating fight in the foyer of the airport (you are given 
 barely any room to move in against 4 enemies, one of which has a machine gun) , you chase him across 
 the open runways.
  Picking off one of his escorts with 6 or 7 pistol rounds (?!) I snatched up a tommy-gun and proceeded 
 to rain lead on the escaping foes. Unfortunately, the tommy gun is apparently weaker than the pistol, 
 and I used almost 50 rounds to kill just two enemies.
  In a world where crashing cars damages your health, and enemy shotguns take away half your life 
 in one hit, this kind of puny weaponry is unacceptable.
  
  The camera controls often get stuck on walls or move so far forward you can no longer see your 
 character, not to mention that when driving there is little free control over the camera, making 
 reversing quite difficult at times.
  
  There are so many more things I could mention, like the broken attempts at stealth gameplay, or 
 the fact that save points are so few and far between, you can often end up repeating 20 minutes 
 or more of gameplay because of one foul-up, but I shall leave it here.
  
  Mafia should have been a great game, and it still has many great reviews, but personally I don't 
 think it deserves the majority of them. It's an unfinished game that leaves you wanting more in 
 almost every aspect, and not in a good way.
  
  Leave it alone, or risk spending hours at a time shouting at your monitor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f_an
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 31, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Despite the unique setting, atmosphere and story; Mafia's gameplay fails to keep me entertained 
 and hasn't seemed to age well over the years. 
  
  Mafia at first seemed very cool. The graphics are solid for its time and it had a very interesting 
 story and setting. I've never seen a game or even that many movies set in the 30's that focus on 
 crime in the United States. Sure there have been tons of World War games that take place around 
 this time but this game doesn't have anything to do with World War II. 
  
  The voice acting and graphics are well done and since the game's fairly old, doesn't take a killer 
 rig to run the game. All the cars, clothing, and style of the 30's seem to be well represented. 
 The game doesn't have much artistic quality to it but that's alright as the game has taken a more 
 "realistic" look approach. 
  
  That being said the gameplay's dull. The beginning of the game is spent with a large amount of 
 time simply driving everywhere. The cars are from the 30's so don't expect any killer cars drifting 
 around corners. After doing so many getaway escapes, taxi driving, and simply driving your Mafia 
 friends to certain places, the driving gets old pretty quick and there's quite a bit of it.
  
  The shooting would have been alright as running and strafing feels good but a lot of it is 
 done indoors. The game becomes problematic indoors, the camera does a descent job but the third 
 person view isn't meant for close quarters. This makes shootouts inside frustrating as enemies 
 come up behind you point blank range and start shooting. I can understand the game trying to be 
 realistic but the guns just don't have that ompf feel to it. Enemies take a ton of shots unless 
 you score headshots perfectly which in this game, especially close quarters is no easy task. 
 
  
  The missions in Mafia just kill this game for me. They're no fun, it could have been a great game 
 but they should have eased up on the realism and made it a more flushed out shooter with less tedious 
 missions. I haven't played a lot through this game but I just can't keep going through it. It's 
 just too dull of a game. I can't help but feel this game's a washed down version of Grand Theft 
 Auto. Maybe, the early 30's in Little Italy isn't just the place for a video game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fueledonmusic1x
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Mafia is a very unique game. It takes place in the early 30's and late 30's, where it takes place 
 in a NYC-like city called Lost Heaven. 
  
  Gameplay: Honestly.. its bad... really bad.... well the melee and shooting part that is. The driving 
 is the most satisfying and the variety in cars to use and how all of them drive is pretty fun. 
 7.5/10
  
  Graphics: Its 2002, they were good back then. The car models look pretty good, but they're worse 
 than SAn Andreas. 8/10
  
  Sound: This is the part of the game which it shines in. The cast is great, but the main character 
 Tommy doesn't sound all that tough in fact, he sounds like cocky, pompous, jerk. I'd pick CJ over 
 Tommy anyday =P. 9.5/10
  
  Entertainment: The game will keep you busy for a couple of days. Its lengthy, entertaining, fun, 
 but dificult. On the easiest settings, it'll take 5-10 tries on some missioins because of the broken 
 shoot-outs which definitely took the fun away from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_being
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 29, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  "Mafia", as the name may suggest, is about a crime organization of the same name. The game takes 
 place during the prohibition years in the United States (around the years 1930-1935) , in a fictional 
 city "Lost Heaven" (that is modeled after New York) . Our story begins with Thomas Angelo- a young 
 and hard working taxi driver, who just happens to be in the wrong place at the wrong time. After 
 helping two gangsters escape the clutches of the rivalling family, Tommy is quickly recruited into 
 the big happy family of Don Salieri.
  From here on, the game is just a chain of twenty large-scale missions, with tons of gun-fights, 
 car chases and all sorts of criminal acts.
  
  The city of Lost Heaven is a big sandbox environment. Although Tommy can't just drive around town 
 with no purpose (not in the campaign mode, at least) , you can still see most of the city during 
 the different missions, as you drive from point A to point B and then to point C.
  Unlike other sandbox games, like GTA, the driving is not the best part of the game. All of the 
 cars in "Mafia" are authentic to the time period, which means all of them go real slow, can't take 
 turns without crashing into a wall or a street light, or even go uphill. All this makes the car-chase 
 missions, or even out-driving the police, almost impossible. A. I. cars always drive faster than 
 you, and seem to handle the car better then Tommy, even though he is an experienced driver.
  
  Speaking of the Police, it seems that Don Salieri never heard of bribing the local authorities. 
 The cops will give chase for every small traffic violation, be it speeding, running a red light 
 or bumping into another car. Some offences will only land you a traffic ticket, but resisting arrest 
 or driving over 70 MPH (not many cars can go that fast) will get you arrested, if they can catch 
 you, that is. Some serious crimes, like assaulting a police officer, will trigger the "wanted" 
 symbol, indicating that every cop is looking for you around the city, and they will shoot on sight. 
 Laying low for a few minutes, changing the car you drive, or just plain getting out of your car, 
 can easily solve this predicament.
  
  Fire-fights are probably the game's forte, but most of them are too easy or really annoying. There 
 isn't really any cover system or even targeting or damage systems, so some hostiles will fall after 
 two shots, while others can take up to ten shots to the chest and still fight back. Some weapons, 
 like the shotgun, are mostly a one-hit-kill, but handguns, rifles and the Tommy-gun are highly 
 inaccurate, and are pretty lousy weapons overall.
  
  "Mafia" really has only two saving graces: it tells a great crime story, with lots of twists and 
 turns, and offers a great variety of missions.
  Every one of the twenty missions is unique and different from the others. You've got assassinations, 
 bank robbery, car chases and even a stealth mission.
  The problem is that some missions, especially those that require a lot of driving, can get on your 
 nerves pretty fast, since you can't save manually at any time during a mission. The save system 
 is based on checkpoints, that can be too far away from one another.
  
  The story, as mentioned before, is a classic good guy turns bad turns good again scenario. The 
 game's script feels just like it's taken out of a gangster movie. Each mission starts with a little 
 cut-scene, giving details of the mission, but also demonstrating the relations between members 
 of the family, and really giving a sense of a classic movie.
  
  For a game that came out in 2002, the graphics are decent; all the environments and character models 
 are detailed and believable. Enemies and allies bleed when they get hit, most objects can be smashed, 
 cars will explode upon taking to much damage, and the cigar smoke in every scene is easy on the 
 eye. There are a few visual bugs, especially when driving - the road will flicker in and out of 
 existence.
  
  With other, better, crime games out there (like "The Godfather") , "Mafia" doesn't really have anything 
 exciting and new to offer. If you are itching for a good crime story, and already played through 
 the better games, try out "Mafia". Who knows, maybe the compelling story and setting are enough 
 to keep the game afloat, but the busted gameplay and frustrating driving sequences are some pretty 
 heavy cement shoes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  You all probably know the storyline of this game - it starts off just as any other game of this 
 type. However, the storyline develops in a capturing way making you a part of the Mafia world in 
 the early 90's. 
  
  I would advise new generations to play this game, and even though a few years old, I am sure it 
 will give you pleasure for your money. 
  
  Unlike the GTA serial, this game draws you into its world and you forget you are playing the game. 
 All GTA's are pretty good, some brilliant some simply good. However, even they can barely try and 
 match the magic gameplay of Mafia. If I had to choose between Mafia alone and the entire GTA serial, 
 I would have trouble choosing.
  
  I am writing this review 5 years after I played the game. 5 years ago, I would have perhaps given 
 it 9 or 9.5 but now I give it 10 because it has absolutely stood the test of time.
  
  This one goes into my list of legendary games that bring enojoyment and sheer happiness to the 
 gaming world. 
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing if you have nothing 
 else to play
  6 - worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely 
 anything else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 as if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10) .
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life.
  
  Best Wishes to everyone,
  
  Zak
  
  (reincarnation)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireproofarm
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  mafia is a kind of game which cannnot be restricted to the words it not only represents the truly 
 ingeneous  n roses, special effects and many many more 
 features it game the video game industry the new way of exploring game environment and the ride 
 of train attracted me more than travelling by a car MY most appreciated gun is pump short gun and 
 colt 47 after PROJECT IGI this is my favourate game and i m really proud to say this 
  please producers remake this game once more EVERY CENTURY SO THAT LUCKY GUYZ LIKE ME CAN PLAY THIS 
 GAME EVERY TIME
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luiggi_DiMaggio
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  I can believe, one of the best game i ever play, is from Europe ,, unabelievable.. but well, i 
 dont know, this game is one of the betters game ever,, with a free road like Gta, but much better 
 on is time of Gta, dude, you can put gasoline in your car for a few bucks, but well,, the story 
 is like a gangsta movie, is epic, but is not only take a Mr. Thompson and kill some enemys,, you 
 can race, and do all class of thinks,, like travel in subway, maybe the only bad is the gameplay,, 
 but is not Realy bad,, a 1 hours and the problem disapear, 
  
  is one of the most entrenainement games ever, and from the genre, with the classic, GTA , the best 
 esponent, of the genre
  
  
  Let the force be with you my young padawan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toroman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 6:15 am PT
Review:  Mafia: The City Of Lost Heaven is a classic and must have for every gamer.
  First time I started playing this game i thought it was an GTA clone and boy was I wrong. Don&acute; t 
 get me wrong, I am a GTA fan but this game...
  Gameplay is great, graphics amazing for that time with no glitches and bugs that I found. Mafia simply 
 blow my mind away and become one of my favourite games ever.
  First I thought that only Mafia&acute; s real weakness was no real free roam, but I was wrong again. After 
 finishing game, you unlock Free Ride Extreme and adventure continues. You get to explore city and 
 find bonus missions.
  Well, to cut to the chase, this is a classic game that every gamer have to own in his or her collection. So 
 for those who have not tried Mafia, go get it right away!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljc32
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  What can i say the game speaks for its self. The game is incredable by providing well justified 
 weapons, endless amount of cars and great characters. The story and plot flow is countless and 
 just keeps you on the edge with many twists and turn through out gameplay. The variation of each 
 mission intalls something different every time and the missions are always fun to do even if you 
 have to repeat it a few times. Thier are a high number of missions to play, all of which are good 
 and very exciting to play. Overview - Mafia is one of the best games i have ever played and i would 
 highly reccomend it !. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OlfKin
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 5, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, I thought this game was really good, good map. Lots to explore unlike the gta series 
 its in the 1930's. So it was really new. Also the story was excellent you don't see that often 
 in games. But the bad its that when you crash you're health is reduced so that one of the only 
 things i didn't like about the game. It kind of bugged me. Another on is that theres was no lock 
 one. Problably I got used to Gta so much that I need Lock on. But overall it was a great game. 
 If it did have that then i think it would be a perfect game!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kumarh3
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2007 12:17 am PT
Review:  Mafia is an excellent game set in 1930s. It has a sandbox time gameplay (similar to GTA III) . The 
 graphics are excellent. The music and especially the background score is awesome. The voice acting 
 is great, especially the main character Tommy Angelo. The story is great, one of the best I have 
 ever seen, explained well with the help of cutscene. But cars are damn slow, except for the race 
 car. After the cutscene, getting from once place to the target place is tiresome. Guns sound great, 
 especially the Tommy gun. The car race in the game is very hard, it took almost 6 hours for me 
 to complete that part. The character modelling is great. The AI is bad. The final battle in Mafia 
 is great. Overal the game is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Przem0
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 14, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  1930s, City of Lost Heaven, USA. Country of wide open spaces, new opportunities and the time of 
 prohibition, illegal business and organized crime that ruled most of cities. Life is tough and 
 only strongest survive. As a taxi driver your life is maybe not the dream come true, but thats 
 better than nothing.
  One beautiful day everything was to change, when some unidentified man ran off crashed car to your 
 taxi and demanded that you to loose the tail. Those charming gentlemen happened to be mafia henchmen. 
 After successful escape they made you an offer you could not refuse, since now, you are made man.
 
  
  You start as a taxi driver and as the time passes by you climb the ladder higher and higher. Missions 
 are interesting and besides driving a car and killing people in shootouts, they also involve some 
 stealth missions. Game offers us streamline missions, free ride option where you can get to any 
 available car (over 60 in game, but we have to unlock them during the game as well as parts of 
 town) and go for a ride, maybe some killing. After finishing main missions, which is supposed to 
 take you around 10-15 hours which is not that much really, free ride extreme option will become 
 available where you will have chance to complete few driving missions and unlock cool prototype 
 cars. Check out also car encyclopedia.
  
  City is quite big and well designed. Driving car gives an impression of driving car from that era. 
 Most of them dont go faster than 120 km/h and acceleration seems reasonable for this era, they 
 also sound pretty realistic. At any time we can get of and change our mean of transportation to 
 better fitting our image. Not all cars can be hijacked, during the game we will learn how to pick 
 locks in newer and better models, but watch out, those cars run on gas and depending on a car you 
 may have to visit gas station. If we get tired of driving, we can always take a tram or train. 
 Frankly, I was impressed by the driving in mafia, very enjoyable. Music fits game perfectly, doesnt 
 bother at any time. Voices, gunshots and car engine sounds fulfils the picture like in not many 
 other games, makes you feel like in 30s.
  Our arsenal is not bad too. We can enhance our persuasive arguments with baseball bat (for sportive 
 types mostly) , all kinds of revolvers (for pedantic people) , shotguns (for messy people) and tommyguns 
 (for show mostly) .
  
  Everything seems great so far, but that is it. It took me two years to gather up computer to play 
 this game 1024x768 and game still isnt maxed out. Plot although interesting doesnt give you any 
 option! Story is as straight as white republican from southern states. I really was expecting more, 
 much more, but that is what I do, I expect things. I am just an expecting type. More/less in the 
 &frac34; of the game you wish, you didnt have to drive to that place, kill those people and get 
 back just to repeat it again in next mission just with different proportions of driving, hiding 
 and killing. When at the later levels even a shotgun shot in the head couldn't settle differences 
 between me and my protagonists I just lost the faith and will to go on.
  
  Mafia is a solid tpp action game with great graphics and music. Game is very enjoyable if you don't 
 mind the linearity and just silly situations where you unload whole clip into guy's head and he 
 still fights back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cenneli
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2007 4:20 am PT
Review:  Although I did not have any desire to play extremes like gangster or policeman, I had really surprised 
 with this such an excellent game in my first experience. Then, I have to admit that I could not 
 leave it for two months. It has, first of all, persuasive missions and meaningful character development. 
 Secondly, rhythm of action, I mean those when the character is outside his car, is very satisfactory. 
 And, finally, above all, experiencing virtual drives with old cars is a tremendous fun. I cannot 
 forget the level of harbour and the end of the game. Mafia is probably one of the most successful 
 game that the player really starts to like the character s/he plays and the end of the game is 
 very sad since it corresponds to the end of this very much liked character as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: giro786
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  i completed this game in 11 days back in 2003 ; and till now i remember that this was the best 
 game i have ever played ; excellent graphics ( back in the days ) ; incredible storyline ; mixed 
 by the best musical store ever written for a PC game ; i was so moved by this game ; i cried at 
 the end of the game because i couldn't believe that the game has ended...
  
  the strory is well told since the beginning to the final climax of the game it takes you with the 
 game's hero journey into the Mafia's world , and how he began his missions with them 
::::::

::::::
UserName: serbiarules
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 4:59 am PT
Review:  Best mafia game ever. It's been a long time since a game pin me to the computer and this game really 
 did it, a found myself playing it all the way to the end. It has good atmosphere, story, characters, 
 music and at the time it was published a great graphic. The realistic thing in the game is when 
 you pass a red light in front of a cop they will give you a ticket which would kill the fun in 
 GTA games but here it's well implemented. No other mafia game can hit the uniqueness that this 
 game had, but at the end it's a fairly easy game that you can always come back to. I really doubt 
 that any other mafia game would be as good as this masterpiece. I hope it gets a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luke312
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  I first bought mafia on ps2, which was a big mistake I hated it but after grabin the demo it made 
 me see where I made the mistake so I ran back down to my local game station traded it back to em 
 and grabbed the PC version and my god, it amazing. That was 2 years ago and still Mafia is one 
 of my favourite games to date from its great single player missions, graphics, sounds, atmosphere, 
 and the map is all perfected to the max. This game was released during the big daddy of games GTA3 
 and I do feel that it has been kicked to the side and hasnt been given full credit. Game play 
 - You start off as a local cabby next thing youre becoming one of the (good) fellas as you fight 
 to stay alive and keep killing your business. I dont wanna give much away from the story as its 
 a good part of the game and is very clever and the cut scenes show great graphics for the time 
 and nicely synched voices to the characters while they talk. The game play and story are awesome. 
 Graphics - Cut scenes amazing for the time of the game, the smoke from cigarettes and cigars looks 
 like the real thing and makes u feel youre in the meeting with the don. The cars looks realistic 
 and cleverly made and have the classic feel of the cars is shown though the game. However if your 
 driven down the street it feels like the same building skins are used and stretched repeated over 
 and over again and doesnt have the individual detail as GTA3 and GTA: VC. Apart from that the graphics 
 are superb for the time. Sound - The sound of the street is brilliant, the acceleration of the 
 cars, the brakes of the cars u can even hear the cars starting up when u get in. The only downside 
 of the sound is the music played, unlike GTA3 it doesnt have a radio system it instead plays some 
 classic jazz (suits the time the game is set) but the jazz music does get annoying and even when 
 you try and turn it off it does suddenly start back up again louder than before. Overall - This 
 game is a great, a must have, a gem that for some reason has been forgotten. If you like GTA or 
 you like gangsters and the whole godfather, goodfellas kinda style go out right now and grab this 
 game. Also the price of the game second hand means anyone can get it, I remember when I bought 
 it, the price was &pound;5-&pound;7 so no reason not to get it. 9.5 A ultimate game (a must buy) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: obefiend
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  perfect gun play - checked
  engaging storyline - checked
  voice acting - check
  graphics - was cool back in those days , better than most
  
  i still dont know why the sequel 
 its not out yet. this is probably one of the best ever pc game that i have ever played. the only 
 annoying bit is the infamous racing stage. but that aside, this game just oozes class. even the 
 Godfather game that came out last year cant beat this game.. and its 5 years old!! being a mafia 
 never felt so satisfying! a must have for any mafia game fans.
  
  please GOD games.. release a sequel already. show the fools how one should make a GTA clone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhilipJFry2006
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  I knew Mafia even before I was actually into PC games. Especialy because the developpement team 
 behind it resides in the town I live in ( Brno - Czech Republic ) a it is truly a game to be proud 
 of. For the few not knowing what's Mafia all about: Mafia is a 3rd person shooter/ action adventure/ 
 story based driving with a strong story element. Another good thing is what you can play it on 
 any computer.
  
  Some people say it is a GTA clone but they obviously don't know what are they talking about. It 
 came out a few monts after GTA 3. The story is very complex and full of plot twists, and as everyone 
 probably knows takes place during the prohibition in a open city based on New York City and Chicago. 
 Mafia has several game modes - Story Mode, Freeride, and Freeride Extreme unlockable after finishing 
 the story mode. The game is one of the most realistic I know. The guns inflict a ralistic amount 
 of damage ( even to the main character ) and the historical vehicles arn't very fast. The graphics 
 are outstanding for its time and the music fits perfectly. The only cons are the few bugs and the 
 insane difficulty so don't expect to complete a mission for the first time, neither the second, 
 neither the third... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lethalscorpion
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  Whoever wrote this game is a genius. I can&acute; t remember the name of the writer though. If you 
 think that this is just some mafia game that&acute; s all about shooting and killing people , you&acute; re 
 dead wrong. -SPOILERS-
  Thomas Angelo first didn&acute; t want to get involved in mafia at all. He was a cab driver and 
 was just a simple man who lived his life just like you.
  Until one night Paulie and Sam from Salieri family were escaping from Morello&acute; s guys ,their 
 car broke up so they had to get in Tom&acute; s cab and Tom had to shake them. But the guy&acute; s 
 that were after ,got the cab&acute; s license plate number and from that moment on ,Tom was automatically 
 involved .
  I always like how Tom lights a cigarette and has a smoke in the cutscenes ,that&acute; s so cool 
 at the time when stupid people say how bad smoking is .
  Tom is a great guy , he let Michelle escape who he was sent after and also let Frank ,who broke 
 the omerta, fly to Europe with his family.
  At the end, Tom learnt not to trust anyone as Michelle rat him out .
  Tom was also a family man 
 who had a wife and kid.
  When the game&acute; s story comes to an end ,Paulie and Tom realize that Salieri is doublecrossing 
 them and ain&acute; t giving a fair cut..
  But play the game and you&acute; ll find out what happened.
  Also if your friend who has a birthday 
 coming and who loves action games and you don&acute; t know what to buy him ,then Mafia is the best 
 gift ever, You can also buy this as a christmas present.
  Music in the cutscenes and during the shootouts is cool but the music that is being played while 
 you&acute; re driving a car sucks.
  Though, other sounds in the game are really true, like when you&acute; re inside Salier&acute; s bar 
 and it is raining outside you can hear rain drops on the windows.
  Weapons are very realistic and true and your enemies lose ammo ( unlike in GTA where your enemies 
 always have unlimited ammo) so you can just wait until they run out of bullets and then do this 
 like gentlemen.
  Game creates 1930s gangster feel ,when mafiosos loved to whack each other in the restaurants :)
 
  Only thing that i would complain about is that the story is too short. GUN&acute; s story however 
 seems longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sloppyrob
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Mafia is by far the best game I have ever played. I'm playing this game now for the 4th or 5th 
 time and I still love it!
  
  It's 2007 now and I still can't find any game that compares with this. The story and gameplay is 
 incredible! There are some bugs in the game with the AI and stuff like that but it doesn't handicap 
 the game in my opinion. This is a must own game for everyone.. don't even try it on the xbox or 
 playstation because it doesn't even compare to the pc version!!!
  
  And now the game is probably going for 10 bucks or something like that!
  
  Get it get it get 
 it get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  Organized crime has inspired some of the best films and television shows ever made  the Godfather 
 trilogy, GoodFellas, and The Sopranos, to name just a few. Weve been waiting patiently for eons 
 to play a PC game that really took full advantage of this fascinating and action-packed atmosphere.
 
  
  Thanks to Illusion Softworks (the Czech Republic developer responsible for Hidden &amp; Dangerous) , 
 that time has come. Mafia: City of Lost Heaven is a fantastic game, as well as a firsthand look 
 at what it might have been like to be a made man back in the glory days of the 1930s.
  
  You play the role of Tommy Angelo, who, after a life spent working for the Salieri family, 
 decides to flip (mob-speak for becoming a traitor and working with the law to bring down your 
 former associates) when hes ordered to kill some friends. Told as a series of flashbacks, the 
 20 missions of the campaign offer an amazing array of tasks to accomplish, ranging from stealthy 
 assassinations to intense shootouts to competing in an auto race. Grand Theft Auto III is definitely 
 a major influence on the game design, and always for the better.
  
  The biggest complaint that most players will have with Mafia is that you must get yourself to wherever 
 your mob-designated assignment is taking place. So youll have to drive to and fro, making sure 
 all the while that you obey traffic laws, as one slip-up means game over when youre pulled over 
 by cops. This method may be realistic and can even be construed as a gameplay challenge, but an 
 option to zip to the beginning of the action sequences would have been much appreciated.
  
  Mafias technical aspects are among the best in the business. Its rare in this day and age to 
 be truly impressed by a games graphics, but a lot of your early game time will be spent just marveling 
 at the scenery. Those just scraping by with the minimum system requirements will still get a gorgeous, 
 if somewhat sluggish, experience, but if youve been looking for an excuse to upgrade your video 
 card, heres an excellent one. Most of the vehicles (more than 60 are eventually available) look 
 like they were imported via time machine, and the texture-mapping of peoples faces is outstanding. 
 (There are no faccia brutas in this game.)
  
  The soundtrack is filled with sounds of the era, and though some of the voice-acting can be charitably 
 classified as merely acceptable, the overall effect of music and speech pulls you further into 
 the games alternate reality. Cut-scenes between missions are movie-like in their presentation, 
 the camera is almost always in a good position, and, for me, the game was refreshingly crash-free 
 throughout. The one fly in the antipasto is that even on the burliest machines, the graphics at 
 the far horizon tend to pop in a little too noticeably. Its not disastrous, but with other details 
 so stunning, this hiccup can be somewhat distracting.
  
  Backing up the sights and sounds is some of the best third-person action gaming since Grand Theft 
 Auto III. Yes, the comparisons are valid, but only to a point: Mafia is much more focused on its 
 story and, in turn, is more linear than GTA III. Thats not a bad thing, as the result is a more 
 structured form of storytelling, but keep it in mind if you think GTA IIIs open-ended style is 
 the model for all future action gaming.
  
  Mafia also has a separate Free Ride mode, which offers a chance to explore the city at your own 
 pace. This mode lets you adjust the amount of traffic, the number of people walking the streets, 
 and how long the arm of the law will be. Completing the campaign opens up more options, including 
 Free Ride Extreme. Here you completely rid yourself of the pesky police force, and open the opportunity 
 to gain further vehicles by completing odd-job tasks. While its nowhere near as fun as the campaign 
 (or GTA III, for that matter) , this loosening of the belt is a good bonus, and just adds another 
 checkmark to the positive side of the ledger.
  
  Most of those negative checkmarks come from Mafias dedication to realism. In addition to the driving 
 requirement, another vehicle-related issue is that the cars are incredibly true to their real-life 
 1930s counterparts, meaning that most of them pretty much suck. Forget about high-speed chases 
  youll be lucky if you can even get these babies started the first few times you turn the key! 
 A few of the missions also seem a little too scripted, in that they dont reward you for thinking 
 outside the box because events need to proceed a specific way to set the stage for later actions. 
 Finally, you get a fairly generous but still limited save-game system that may frustrate some players 
 during the more difficult missions.
  
  None of these complaints, though, takes away from the fact that Mafia is one of the more entertaining 
 and impressively designed games to hit the PC in a while. Should you buy a copy right away? Fuhgeddaboutit! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackBurton
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 8, 2007 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Make no mistake, this game can be quite difficult at first. This is a good thing though, and it's 
 due to the degree of realism the developers invested into the game's physics- weapons aim &amp; 
 recoil, how you react to being shot by the various weapons, and the driving characteristics of 
 each of the many authentic vehicles. There's a lot to learn and get comfortable with during the 
 first 30-90 minutes of game-play and it can be downright tedious at times. This is especially true 
 during one of the game's early levels, (perhaps the 4th mission) a combative racing sequence which 
 by itself could very well cause the most veteran of game players to shelve the game, or even pitch 
 it out the window in disgust. (I initially shelved it and went back to it later, in early 2004 
 during a off-period between new releases)
  But if you persevere through the (sometimes steep) learning-curve you'll be rewarded with one of 
 the most memorable and greatest game experiences imaginable! Great story, characters, music, and 
 a fully realised metropolis of activity and sounds to immerse yourself into as you drive from mission 
 to mission, and optional objectives (all of which should be accomplished) .
  Overall, a good mix of driving, run-and-gun, and stealth play. Released nearly five years ago it's 
 graphics have stood the test of time, and is still quite immersive to this day. If you missed this 
 game, find it. Don't waste any more of your time reading reviews, just buy it now! Search the bargain 
 bins and/or EBay. Get your hands on it by any means necessary!! Stick with it, learn it, and play 
 it through, cuz it's just that good. A true gaming Masterpiece! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paraturkurati
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2007 4:25 am PT
Review:  There is no better mafia game than this one! The story of this game is amazing it drags you right 
 in, the game play is realistic, there is nothing bad in this game for me to add, everything is 
 well made this makes a very addictive game, Mafia is a masterpiece! If you really like movies like 
 The Godfather, this game was designed for you! Anyone who owns a copy of this game can tell you 
 it leaves up to its name. do yourself a favour and try this game before its too late!
  
  (Missions)
  The hardest mission for me was the race mission and at first I gave up and let my 
 friend finish it for me since he was more into driving games, the story was so addictive, I couldnt 
 stop playing, I had to complete it. Another difficult mission was at the end when I faced my old 
 pal, eventually I figured out how to and killed him, it wasnt that hard. At the end something 
 happens and I dont like spoiling surprises so you need to find out for yourself. (Mafia 2)
  I think there should be another version of this game, we want the story to continue, it doesnt 
 feel completed!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fateproducer
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  Mafia is one of the best games ever made, connected with being gangster and doing orders from your 
 don. The story line is truly elaborated and build up suspense. At one moment you don't even know 
 whom to trust. You are an ordinary taxi drive but suddenly an one coincidence change your life 
 for good... it's the beginning of this game. Despite of your beliefs and principles you've decided 
 to try your hand at gangster world. And then everything goes its own way. You gain some respect 
 but from the other side you make enemies, because you are smart and clever man, and your advantages 
 become their weak points. In other words they have to "push you back". The game is really gorgeous. 
 Maybe it's not with the best graphics (because it's from 2002) but it's got something inside of 
 itself, other games should be jealous about. I recommend you all this one. You can't overlook it! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 28, 2007 1:22 am PT
Review:  Ive read many books (both fiction and non-fiction) and seen many movies on the organised crime 
 lifestyle. And now Ive played the game. Developed by a Czech based company, Mafia offers a big 
 living, breathing world for the lifestyle to operate. The game has presentation and style to burn 
 which does cover up some of the minor issues in the gameplay. However, there is no doubt that Mafia 
 is a great story and gaming experience, full of the juxtapositions and ironies of the lifestyle 
 it portrays.
  
  You play as Tommy Vercetti, a taxi driver in the right / wrong place and the right / wrong time 
 and required to help some men out of a tight spot. Before long he is recruited into the family 
 and commences work congruent with the strict ethics and hierarchy of that lifestyle but with disregard 
 to any other form of civil obedience. Obviously not happy with the honest dollar he can make on 
 the fix, Tommy breaks the family code and, in the ultimate juxtaposition, most of the story is 
 told with him singing like a canary to the authorities. It is through this confession that the 
 flashbacks of his life and times in the Mafia is told and played.
  
  Lost Heaven is an amazing place to visit. A big, breathing bustling city set in the middle of last 
 century and with the character and charm to boot. The variety of vehicles is impressive and a nice 
 change from the hot rods and muscle cars of contemporary games and the focussed locations where 
 set pieces occur are well mapped and detail. There are a lot of wide open spaces outside of Lost 
 Heaven which are rarely utilised (two missions, from memory) and one does wonder whether there 
 was an original intention to use this well developed piece of programming a lot more than it actually 
 was. The main characters, NPCs and the weapons that become available are well defined. Its a 
 great looking game now, let alone in 2002.
  
  The sound is of the highest order. From the melancholic orchestral arrangement of the title music 
 to the in-game effects, the sound and atmosphere it creates is superb. The voice acting (with the 
 usual family sounding talk) is superb and firefights (when they occur) are made all the more 
 intense due to the sharp and intense sounds. Dishing out some biff with the fists also has some 
 effects that will have you cringing and the city hums along day and night  with cars, people and 
 other environment effects all in the mix.
  
  The obvious comparisons to the Grand Theft Auto series are valid. The time cycles from night to 
 day and the game is set up by driving to the office to get instructions. There are also side-missions 
 and there is nothing stopping you from taking a good ol fashioned Sunday drive through Lost Heaven 
 to familiarise yourself with the city before reporting for duty. In fact, you had better enjoy 
 driving as there is a lot of it to do in this game. But these are comparisons, there is never a 
 suggestion of clone, or rip-off, more a tipped hat to the ground-breaking gaming environment 
 that the folk at Rockstar created.
  
  The game is mission-based thuggery and it is told in retrospect by Tommy Vercetti. It is basically 
 his life and times in the family and it makes for an evocative and memorable story. There isnt 
 a dud in any of the missions. All are excellent set pieces full of action and intensity and involved 
 tasks such as eliminating undesirable human beings, collecting debts, stealing cars, highjacking 
 goods and accompanying the boss to lunch / an ambush. It is stereotypical stuff which is saved 
 by the way the set pieces are presented. There are some very impressive firefights through the 
 halls and corridors of hotels, restaurants and buildings where enemies use cover very well indeed. 
 You cannot reload your weapon willy-nilly as you lose your whole clip and ammunition is sparse, 
 so every shot counts. The weapons available are realistic given the time period and at times youll 
 need to resort to fisty-cuffs to deal with foes.
  
  You are also required to use defensive and evasive driving which is really well done and quite 
 breathtaking when it is happening. However, while the authorities maybe hot on your tail, all you 
 have to do is make it to your base and its all over. Its like they just disappear.
  
  However, driving to and from the scene can get a bit monotonous (especially if you dont know your 
 way there) and driving faster than 40mph will result in being pulled over by the police and issued 
 with a ticket. This also wears thin after a while. The side missions (usually involving beating 
 somebody up, tipping somebody off or stealing the latest, greatest vehicle) are an enjoyable diversion 
 from the main campaign, with a few rewards for completion. And Im glad the patch provided difficulty 
 options for the racing mission. There was no way I could complete that at standard difficulty.
 
  
  Tommys juxtaposed lifestyle isnt just in his ultimate betrayal, but is hinted at through the 
 story. He doesnt dispose of two people he should. Is he showing compassion as a human being or 
 is he just an insubordinate foot-soldier who wants the glory and not the pain? Why even consider 
 the moonlighting job?  Life was good. And why run like hound to the constabulary when things went 
 wrong, rather than look for his own exit strategy, as had others who he was instructed to deal 
 with. The ironies are there, whether intentional or not, and really do make Mafia a story as much 
 as a game.
  
  After youve completed the main game, which ends with betrayal, redemption and then revenge, a 
 driving / combat game opens up which throws the atmosphere and emotion of the main campaign out 
 the window for a bit of weird and wonderful enjoyment. Its about 20 challenges long, in which 
 you undertake tasks such as following invisible men, UFOs or saving a damsel in distress from 
 a giant sea monster. It adds another 5-10 hours to the 15 or so hours the main campaign takes  
 and it works really well.
  
  I purchased Mafia for $AUD12 in 2005 and that is value for money, do doubt about it. It is still 
 readily available for that price or less and whilst there are some other games with a similar storyline 
 (The Godfather and Scarface, for example) , this is recommend for its intensity, its storyline and 
 its enjoyable post-campaign alternative.
  
  Mafia works as a story and a game. It poses more questions than answers as you work your way through 
 the life and times of Tommy Vercetti. The game is full of memorable and intense set pieces in a 
 world where everything is wrong, alliances are skin-deep and life is short and cheap. Play it, 
 dont live it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SouthParkFan92
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 27, 2007 5:36 am PT
Review:  I got Mafia for Christmas two years ago. I suggest not playing it for consoles because I hear on 
 Consoles it sucks. If you have a good PC then rush to a video game store and buy this game. You wont 
 regret it! FOr those who think this game is just another cheap Grand Theft Auto rip off you are 
 wrong! Mafia is much more than that. The graphics in the game are simply amazing. The story is excellent! 
 and the city in Mafia is bigger than the city in GTA Vice City. I still like GTA better but Mafia 
 is excellent. The game spans from 1930-1938. You are Tommy Angelo. An average cab driver during the 
 depression. You basically confess your mafia work to a detective and rat out your boss and fellow 
 mobsters for protection (you will see why in the end of the game) . This happens in 1938. The game 
 flashes back to 1930. One day you have to save some mobsters from rivals who are trying to kill 
 them. After you do you are welcomed into the mafia business and you do mafia related missions throughout 
 the game such as murder. As the years go on you find your character in deep trouble with certain 
 people such as corrupt politicians and rival mobsters. My only problem with the game is that some 
 missions are very hard and frustrating. Mafia is an excellent game with great graphics, story and 
 a very good ending. There is also a free ride mode in which you can kill pedestrians, steal cars, cause 
 as much mayhem as possible. Then you get Free Ride Extreme after you beat the game and there are 
 no cops to worry about so you can do whatever you want without the chance of getting shot by dozens 
 of cops. Buy this game now for PC! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreggD
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Mafia is a game that many have assumed is a clone of Grand Theft Auto. That is, until they played 
 it. With more emphasis on story than causing mayhem, Mafia takes you through the mobster lifestyle 
 of one Tommy Angelo, and the consequences therein.
  
  The game unfolds via Tommy's story, which he is telling to a local police officer in present day 
 . After being thrust into a chase between the families of Salieri and Morello during his cab shift, 
 Tommy soon chooses a life of crime (against his better judgment) . The controls work well enough. 
 You have a constant free-aim, courtesy of your mouse. In fact, most of the shooting and combat 
 handles like a typical PC-shooter, which is great. The cars handle well, even though they don't 
 go very fast (it is the 30's, mind you) .
  
  The graphics are excellent, considering this game was released in 2002, before the huge graphical 
 leap of games like FarCry, Doom 3 and Half-Life 2. The characters all have good motion captured 
 body language, and the environment looks very appropriate for the setting.
  
  The sound is top-notch, as well. A jazzy soundtrack and great shrapnel-filled car explosions make 
 for a rich, pleasantly audio-laden experience. Not to mention the voice acting. While a few lines 
 sound stiff, overall the acting is very good.
  
  Overall, Mafia is an excellent accomplishment in video game storytelling, and it's fun, to boot. 
 So, if you haven't played it yet, let me say this;
  
  Perch&egrave; cos&igrave; stupido?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElZilcho90
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to describe this game objectively, for it it the reviewer's favorite game. So much is 
 amazing about the game, it's nearly indescribable. The fact that this game isn't more popular is 
 a sin of the gaming world.
  
  Fire up this game, and you instantly step into the shoes of Tommy Angelo, a lowly taxi cab driver 
 in the 1930s city of Lost Heaven. After being forced to act as a getaway driver for a couple of 
 Mobsters, Tommy receives an offer to join the Salieri Crime Family, an offer which he eventually 
 can't refuse. As the player, you follow Tommy's life in the Mafia, through harrowing twists and 
 turns as he moves up the proverbial ladder.
  
  The story is absolutely brilliant, an absolute masterpiece in the gaming world. All of the characters 
 are full of life, leading the player to actually feel attachment and remorse when a character dies. 
 The missions are refreshing and varied: In one level, you're driving a borrowed race car to a auto 
 garage to be fixed and back to the track in the same night, only to find the next morning that 
 you yourself have to take part in the race. In another, you have to slip past security to raid 
 a judge's mansion. The ending of the game is one of the most brilliant climaxes in the history 
 of gaming.
  
  The gameplay itself is enjoyable yet challenging. You have access to plenty of 30s weapons, from 
 the humble baseball bat to the Colt .45, from the trusty Sicilian Lupara (sawed-off shotgun) , to 
 everyone's favorite, the Tommy Gun. Enemies will put up a struggle, and it takes more than one 
 lucky shot to off 'em. Driving is a joy- In the beginning, you're stuck driving a slow Model T-esque 
 car, but as time passes and new cars are developed, you get access to better, more powerful vehicles.
 
  
  The City of Lost Heaven is beautiful. You can drive from the high skyscrapers of Central Island 
 to the ethnic slums of Little Italy and Hoboken without a single loading sequence. Fascinatingly, 
 the police actually do their job, realistically pulling you over for speeding or even running a 
 red light! It's the little additions like that that makes Mafia such a great game.
  
  What can I say that hasn't already been said? This is a great game, with a Puzo-worthy plot and 
 refreshingly realistic gameplay. Why are you still reading this review? Go buy the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Walker11
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jul 15, 2007 10:30 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, TRULY. superb graphics, brilliant sound and exellent and realistic gameplay. 
 However it being realist is just annoying. In the missions most of the time you have to drive a 
 super hell of a lot, which is un necessary and boring, you have to go by the speed limit, watch 
 out for cops (even though they are almost impossible to sight) and the cars are as fast as they 
 would be in 1930. People tell me its like a better version of GTAIII, i disagree. You are unable 
 to roam the city and do side missions in between the main missions and you have to escape to the 
 main menu to do so. The shooting is good. But if not done stealthily knocking someone out by hitting 
 them with a baseball bat is almost impossible. The story line fir me is too much like a movie than 
 a game and is almost boring as games should not have enourmas and boring cut scenes that string 
 along. BUY SAINTS ROW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nafmister2
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Mafia is an achievement that opens new doors to the world of gaming. There are so many good parts 
 to it it's hard to pick a place to start. First off, the combat in Mafia is one of the best, most 
 enjoyable, and most realistic that I've seen in a game and I've seen many action games. The enemy 
 AI is smart and will tend to take cover behind anything they can, even if it's just a thin railing 
 (it's better than nothing) . The enemy also runs out of bullets so you have a choice of taking the 
 risk of popping out of cover to shoot them and pick up their weapons, or you can wait for them 
 to waste their bullets then move in and blow their brains out. If there are multiple enemies near 
 a car or a flammable barrel, you can shoot it and make it explode killing those enemies. When you 
 fire your weapon there will be a lot of recoil from firing it, this makes the game more challenging 
 but also more realistic. If your character loses too much health at once from multiple hits from 
 a Tommy gun or a pistol he will clutch where he was hit in pain or stagger back. Also it takes 
 you about the same number hits to die as your enemies so you have to think before you shoot. The 
 graphics in Mafia are very impressive particularly in the detail of people's faces and the cars. 
 Speaking about cars Mafia's car physics are (if not very close) to real. The cars (just like the 
 cars in the 1930s) do not go at 100 mph unless you're in the middle of the racecar missions. If 
 your tire is flat you do not travel as fast, and you lose control when you try to make sharp turns. 
 The cars also have a gas tank which can be shot when enemy cars are pursuing you in order for their 
 car to be unable to pursue due to an empty gas tank. The game also provides a solid storyline with 
 some deep, believable characters that makes you feel as if the game is actually happening. The 
 map is also very vast and rich in detail, with countrysides, downtowns, underground tunnels, drawbridges, 
 a working tram and train system, and wealthy neighbourhoods. However, the best part of Mafia is 
 its realistic cop behaviour. If you pass a red light or speed in front of a cop they will give 
 you a ticket. If you are fighting someone, evading a ticket, or carrying a firearm and the cops 
 see you they will try to arrest you. Lastly if you fire your weapon in front of a cop they will 
 try to have you killed. So Mafia adds in realistic aspects to gaming while still preserving the 
 enjoyment that comes with it, something that many other games should start doing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marolia
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Mafia is game, like no other gangster game. You are a taxi driver, you have a nice life and everything 
 goes well. You get paid well etc. two gangster approach you, they were being shot by other gangster. 
 The story goes now..
  In this game there are great variety of things to do, you can roam around in the city, kill people 
 or get a job as a Taxi driver. Mafia takes places in the 40s and it really looks like the 40s. 
 The music, the clothes, everything.
  
  The missions are huge. There are tons of missions, you have to do. But its not like just killing 
 someone and go to the next mission. The story is just awesome. It felt like watching a movie. The 
 voice acting was also superb. Once you start playing this, you wont let it go. There are lots 
 of action, killing gangsters, running away from them. The one thing I dont like is the loading, 
 it takes some time. The other thing is, you cant shoot from inside the car. Your partner will 
 only be able to shoot. When driving a car, you cant just drive the speed limit the way you want, 
 you have to follow the rules. You can only drive in the speed limit of 40Kph. If you drive faster 
 than that, youll be caught. Only when a polices sees you. There are also lots of cars. You can 
 steal them, but you have to learn to steal them. You will learn to steal cars in the story mode.
 
  The graphics are awesome, the sound of the weapons are also awesome. The game is not another copied 
 Grand Theft Auto, its completely different. And it is one of my favorite game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FEPowered390
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2007 2:53 am PT
Review:  Mafia is a fine example of a beautiful sculpted art-piece that gives out a fine polished story, 
 valuable extraordinary game-play of all levels, all which can be found in your nearest bargain 
 bin.
  
  Let's just say that I probably own more computer games than anyone here... both Mac and PC games. 
 This is the only game in my gigantic arsenal that deserves a 100%.
  
  If only I got paid to review every game I had.. I could do a much more thorough job. But anyhow:
 
  
  Everything about this game is unique, fun, inspiring, and new. It doesn't get old. It keeps a fun, 
 rigorous story that will keep you entertained for hours on end.
  
  Like a brand new 1932 transmission, the gameplay shifts smoothly enough to keep plenty of fun ahead. 
 You, the town, and the vehicles all grow old in the game. Whether you are driving, sneaking into 
 a warehouse to polish some thugs, or racing at the oval track, you will be on the edge of your 
 seat.
  
  GTA series would be running home crying to momma if it ever picked a fight with this monster of 
 a game. Yes, I could see the fight taking place now:
  
  GTA- So, you're the new kid on the block... everyone plays me, especially the loser console wimps. 
 You have no chance. I am clearly the best because I sell more. 
  
  MAFIA- Is that so? The Dodge Caravan is the best selling mini van (or was) , but it's still a crappy 
 van. Just because you are cheap, doesn't mean you offer quality services. Besides, what do you 
 have that I don't ?
  
  GTA- Uhh... Rockstar made me.. so I am automatically cool. Voilance. 
  
  MAFIA- Neat. Well, I 
 also have violence. But unlike you, I actually have a well rounded game with superior gameplay, 
 voice-overs, music, vehicles, and anything else that you can't ever offer. 
  
  GTA- Rockstar made me .
  
  The voice overs are absolutely incredible. This game is like watching 
 a movie, while playing on of the most enjoyable games the PC has ever seen.
  
  Best of all. It's available for $10 just about anywhere. If only it could have been put on one 
 big DVD, instead of 4 CD's, that would have been nice.
  
  Let a 100% score speak for itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adhamhany
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 4, 2007 1:58 am PT
Review:  I have played this game since it was first realesed (2002) but i didn't write about it because 
 i wasn't a member in this great site but i will just say that this game is great great and i had 
 a really good times with it and i hope it comes again like the gamez of this issue love Mafia and 
 i hope it will be another part soon cuz this game can grow on you but i think if we played it now 
 our look will be slightly different but it still one of the perfect game i have ever played 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bedram793
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Great gameplay. Shooting and driving is smooth. Great graphics and sounds. Great voice acting 
 and detailed faces. Long campaign.
  
  Cons: some bland textures
  
  I'm going to start with the gameplay. Compared to it's xbox version, the shooting and driving are 
 not stiff. The shooting and driving are real smooth. Graphics are also great. The faces of the 
 main characters Frank, Sara, Tommy, Don Salieri, Paulie and Sam are great. Everything from individual 
 hair strings to wrinkles and moles. The pedestrians are okay and their is only about 10 different 
 kinds but nothing bad about that. Sound is one of the best on PC. Everythign from closing the door, 
 sound of your footsteps, explosions, the fire crackling, to the sound of the guns. As for replay 
 value, the campaign is really long. It could take somewhere between 15-30 hours. Then, there is 
 the Freeride mode. The Freeride extreme mode is a less serious, more funny mode where you can unlock 
 cars called Prototypes. These cars are usually fast, except one which looks like some kind of war 
 vehicle. Then there is just the Freeride mode. You earn money buy killing gangsters, blowing up 
 cars, and going over 70 mph. With the money you can buy grenades, cocktails, bats, shotguns, rifles, 
 sniper rifles, pistols, magnums, and knives. I found myself playing this a lot. Even if you get 
 bored with the freeride mode, you are bound to go back and play the campaign again. I've gone back 
 and played the campaign about 5 times now. This game should have won the Story of the Year, but 
 Splinter Cell beat it. That's a shame. Quite simply, Mafia is one of the best games ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AthletikMan
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2007 9:22 am PT
Review:  If you still haven't experienced one of the best, if not the best, third person shooter on the 
 PC, you are really missing out on a lot. The game features beautiful graphics, besides some ugly 
 textures on some buildings in the city, great driving and shooting gameplay with the sound to match, 
 and a beautiful lively city known as Lost Heaven. Graphics: The game is beautiful and you need 
 a good video card to see that. The character models look outstanding and so do the facial animations. 
 This game perhaps has the best cigar smoke. Besides some ugly textures on the buildings, this is 
 a graphical achievement. Art design is perhaps the best in 2002. Sound: This goes along with Black 
 as probably my two favorite soundtracks in a game. Each part of the city has a different song. 
 The explosions and sound effects all are great. Gameplay: Driving is the best in any game, even 
 racing games. Shooting is a blast even if the AI isn't as good as you might expect. After you finish 
 the game, there's a Freeride Extreme mode where you can unlock 19 prototype cars that go alot faster 
 than your average cars in the game. There's also just a Freeride mode where you can make money 
 buy driving a taxi, killing mafia gangsters, and exploding cars. You can use the money to buy weapons 
 and cause mayem. I suggest you go out and buy it. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phob0s
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 27, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games of the year, if not the best!!!!
  Mafia: The City Of Lost Heaven takes you back to the 30's, specifically it sets place between 1930 
 and 1938 in the City Of Lost Heaven.
  The City Of Lost Heaven has a grand resemblance to the cities of Chicago and New York and it represents 
 in a great way a 1930's metropolis.
  The game lets you play as Thomas Angelo, a former cab driver that suddenly turns into a respected 
 Mafioso. You have to work for Don Salieri and basically the missions consist in various fun activities 
 such as killing people, chasing people, robbing people and others.
  The game has 3 types of game mods entitled Free Ride, Free Ride Extreme and Story mode.
  Free 
 Ride lets you play, free of any missions and explore the city as you like while Free Ride Extreme 
 lets you do 20 really crazy missions and the story mode that has all the missions related to Don 
 Salieri.
  The driving is realistic but be careful not to surpass the speed limit or you will be fined.
 
  The graphics are perfect considering the date of release and it's better that GTA 3.
  For me the game is almost perfect apart for some minor bugs and glitches, every mission is really 
 fun and you it's almost impossible to get tired of the game. I, myself, played this game 5 or 6 
 times and I never got tired of playing it.
  What I like especially in this game is the sense of reality that it transmits to the player, for 
 example if you shoot a weapon in public and if the police detect that you fired some shots they 
 will respond in the same way, by shooting you.
  Another thing, this game is hard and I like a real challenge and Mafia certainly provides a player 
 that.
  This game remains you of the old Mafia ways in USA and its really an interesting subject that 
 inspired a lot of movies and games.
  In conclusion, this is a game worth playing, highly addictive and one of the greatest games of 
 the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CompuWize
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  We are in 2007 but there's still no games that beat Mafia, this is just THE best game ever. The 
 graphics are good, even compared to actual games, the music is perfectly adapted to the theme of 
 the game, the controls are easy to get use, the city is huge and full of details, the cars are 
 well-modeled, and something I found out when i played for the second time is the car damages: they're 
 always different, every hump on the car depends on where you exactly did hit. And now for the missions, 
 these are all interesting and they varied as you progress in the game
  
  Sorry for my bad english 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetallicBrain
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 25, 2007 11:44 am PT
Review:  the best game I've ever played! great story! the best game I've ever played! great story! the best 
 game I've ever played! great story! the best game I've ever played! great story! the best game I've 
 ever played! great story! the best game I've ever played! great story! the best game I've ever played! 
 great story! the best game I've ever played! great story! the best game I've ever played! great 
 story! the best game I've ever played! great story! the best game I've ever played! great story! 
 the best game I've ever played! great story! the best game I've ever played! great story! the best 
 game I've ever played! great story! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woozienebunu
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 25, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  Well this game is kind of surprising. It came from unknown producers but it took the game of the 
 year award. It deserved it and even now nostalgics play it. It's one of the best games!
  
  WELCOME TO THE FAMILY!!!!!!!!!!
  You are Tommy Angelo a simple cab driver in Lost Heaven. One 
 night you hear a crash and you have to take two gangsters to a bar. These guys will become your 
 friends and you'll enter the family they're part of. Salieri is on a war with Morello and you are 
 his errand boy. You get to know everybody well, earn respect and even a girl but everything has an 
 end and the ending is just excellent (except for the part where Tom dies)
  
  LOST HEAVEN
  Lost Heaven is very well made for that year. Cars are specific for that epoch and the passing of 
 the year changes them. The weapons are from those years so the atmosphere is excellent. The missions 
 you recieve vary in objectives and the A. I is good enough. You'll surely notice each character's 
 personality.
  But the producers are known for THE BUGS in this game. A lot of them but many are funny. You'll get 
 used to them.
  This game is more than a masterpiece and it deserves to be played so if you haven't played on it 
 then what are you waiting for???????? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rokyzas
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2007 9:22 am PT
Review:  Some men do not accept the rules. They create their own.
  
  It is 1930. Due to circumstances he couldn't possibly have predicted, Tommy's life as a cabdriver 
 is about to be exchanged for a life in the Mafia. At first he continues his work as a driver and 
 nothing could be better. He soon becomes good friends with his sidekicks Paulie and Sam, and although 
 the work is sometimes risky, he earns more money than he did as a cabdriver. But as time goes on 
 he is ordered to undertake more and more unpleasant jobs  and he starts to become disillusioned 
 with the life he has chosen.
  
  Features: * Explore over 12 square miles of this 1930's American city, with intelligent simulated 
 traffic, landmarks and surrounding countryside. This fictional city was created with reference 
 to authentic buildings and photos from that period. * Over 20 action-packed missions with tasks 
 including from mob hits, car chases, bootlegging, shootouts, assassinations of persona non grata, 
 bank robberies and even simply going for a romantic walk with your love. * Over 30 highly realistic 
 and hi-poly indoor locations rendered with the latest 3D engine technology. Take a trip through 
 a city of the 30s, visit places such as the airport, banks, galleries, restaurants, the harbor 
 and many others. * An expansive epic story line inspired by real events that took place in the 
 30s. The story is conveyed through spoken dialogs and motion-capture animations from professional 
 actors. * Drive one of 60 historic cars, which are based on models that were on the road in the 
 30's and the physics of which have been faithfully reproduced. Due to the realistic physics and 
 real time deformation of the cars, getting involved in a chase with the police is definitely something 
 to avoid. * Over 12 weapons to choose from, including baseball bats, sawn-off shotguns, Magnums 
 or the legendary Thompson tommy gun, to deal with those that dare to cross your path 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JSuarez
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 19, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  ... and I'm not just saying that.... I've spent (sad, or not, depending upon your view) thousands 
 of hours over the last fifteen years playing hundreds of games, and I have to admit that Mafia 
 is what I consider to be the best game ever!
  
  Sure, there are flaws... not enough people populate the streets in Freeride, perhaps the action 
 is a little bit too linear (I'd like to stop into places like Art Museum, Hotel Correlone, or anywhere 
 else whenever I want) , but THIS GAME HAS A GREAT STORYLINE and great graphics to boot!
  
  And the music.... what a blast! I'm glad they were able to put in originals like Django Reinhardt, 
 although the stock music is good as well.
  
  This is the ONLY game that I still go back to and play (Freeride) ... I really enjoy driving the 
 streets of Lost Heaven (now that I think about it, I never liked that name for the city, but big 
 deal) ..... I only wish someone would make Mafia 2! : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rallierf1
Rating: 10
Date: May 16, 2007 12:14 am PT
Review:  Mafia is definately one of the best games i have ever played. Everything is so well designed and 
 the plot is mindblowing and the immersion oh the immersion.... At some point you think you are tomi 
 di angelo and that Pauly is really your friend (i played that game 5 years ago and i still remember 
 everything freshly) .
  I really could not find anything at all wrong with the game everything was simply oustanding, graphics 
 music acting plot gameplay simply amazing and even the car physics matched pretty closely from 
 what you would expect from a 30's car. Like an other member wrote and i agree AN INSTANT CLASSIC.
 
  
  Graphics simply perfect with a lot of attention to detail.
  Sound Great
  Music 30's music really fits the environment
  Driving SImulation style driving
  Shooting Not 
 complicated but enemies not easy
  AI At some point i though i had to do with human players :P
  Acting Better than hollywood (much 
 better)
  Plot probably from a book or something :P
  Result One of the best games ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vrmx
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 30, 2007 6:57 am PT
Review:  Amazing game! Woderful Game! Great Gaphics. Nice Sound. Very Exciting and Long Gameplay. My opinion 
 this game is the best at all the world.
  Amazing game! Woderful Game! Great Gaphics. Nice Sound. Very Exciting and Long Gameplay. My opinion 
 this game is the best at all the world.
  Amazing game! Woderful Game! Great Gaphics. Nice Sound. Very Exciting and Long Gameplay. My opinion 
 this game is the best at all the world.
  Amazing game! Woderful Game! Great Gaphics. Nice Sound. Very Exciting and Long Gameplay. My opinion 
 this game is the best at all the world.
  Amazing game! Woderful Game! Great Gaphics. Nice Sound. Very Exciting and Long Gameplay. My opinion 
 this game is the best at all the world.
  Amazing game! Woderful Game! Great Gaphics. Nice Sound. Very Exciting and Long Gameplay. My opinion 
 this game is the best at all the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: worting
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 25, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  The strongest point about this game is its storyline. Although the story looks like it is inspired 
 by A Martin Scorsese Picture Good fellas and few missions are taken by another movie The Godfather 
 , still it creates an impact on your mind once you have played or you are playing. The enviroment 
 of the game couldn't be better. it really feels like you're in the 30's. The gameplay is almost 
 perfect including the use of guns (including, of course, the shotgun and the classic Tommy machine 
 gun) and the car driving wich gets more interesting when you find out that there are cops everywere 
 that simply don't let you break the speed limit or ignore the red lights and, if you do, they'll 
 chase you untill they get you or untill you lose the tail. Besides, they put real 30's music on 
 the game, wich makes it more realistic and accorded to the historic feeling they're trying to create.
 
  Trust me, the sound is increadible. Guns firing sound as if the actual guns are firing (take into 
 consideration that the models are from the 1930's) . But the music is the highlight, there are many 
 great songs from the 30's including songs from Django Rihenheart (forgive my spelling) . The action 
 music is just as good. This game by it`s story is like some blockbuster hit movie. The conversation 
 between the characters is excellent an then straight to action. The shooting is a little unstable 
 but that contributes to the reality of this gameThe diving is also real, the cars are realistic 
 and authentic. The characters are also too real. The are plenty interesting missions who are gonna 
 keep you busy and the cinemathics are preety interesting and like i sad the look
  like some blockbuster movie 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ankit4u_ch
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2007 6:32 am PT
Review:  The strongest point about this game is its storyline. Although the story looks like it is inspired 
 by A Martin Scorsese Picture Good fellas and few missions are taken by another movie The Godfather 
 , still it creates an impact on your mind once you have played or you are playing. The addiction 
 is so much that you will realise the time spent on the game only after you have completed the game. 
 It might eat away your entire summer vacations as it had done mine but believe once you go into 
 the game you will be addicted and never ever you will be bored unless you are struck in a mission 
 badly. Well you can always read walkthroughs written by few people. It becomes important but please 
 don't do it before trying the mission at least for a few number of times. This may spoil the entire 
 fun.
  The story-
  Tommy Angelo used to drive taxis until one day he had to rescue two gangsters from the other breed 
 of the same animal (I mean gangsters) . He meets up with the boss and as it happens always once 
 of gangsters always of gangsters. Its an offer you can't refuse. If you do you will be climbing 
 the stairs of hell the very next moment. So Tommy Angelo starting working for Mr. Salieri (The 
 Boss) , He had the other two friends sam and Paulie, sam was more of a partner rather than a friend. 
 You can trust Paulie but not Sam. You continue doing work for Mr. Salieri until one day you realise 
 that Mr. Salieri is using you only for his own good. Paulie and Tommy try to leave this work but 
 unfortunately as I said before Once of Gangsters, Always of Gangsters . Your own becomes your enemies. 
 The person who you saved tries to kill you at the end. Paulie gets killed because of that reason. 
 And when you think its all over, the saddest part comes. Salieri sends his regards to you.
  
  Positive Points-
  
  1. The Story - As I said inspired by Good fellas but still brilliant. 
 2. Game play - It makes you feel a real life video is going on and you are a part of it.
  3. Graphics - You are watching a movie and not playing a game.
  4. Music - Will remain in your 
 mind for the rest of your life.
  
  Negative Points-
  
  1. Artificial Intelligence - It seems like the entire police force is after you only. There may 
 be another of gangsters attacking you but the police doesn't even touch them. All they want is 
 you. Altogether a must play. Its a offer you cant refuse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cristero
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 11, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Picture this: three minutes had passed since you put your hands on the keyboard and all your experience 
 on the game is reduced to a single watch of an introductory cinematic, you've done virtually nothing 
 at all yet, and suddenly... bang! bang!, you're already being chased by a car full of mafiosos 
 whom want to take your taxi down toghether with you and your unexpected passengers whom fortuitously 
 are mafiosos too. What should you do? Anithing but stay still there like nothing is happening! 
 Steer on your taxi or they'll kill you all!
  That's Mafia. A game that has you sticked to the computer from the beginning to the end. A game 
 that gives you great emotions when you start playing it and, thank God, an ending that really lets 
 you satisfied. Gran finale, mamma m&iacute; a!
  
  Considering the release date (2002) , the graphics are amazing and the city, characters and cars 
 are perfectly designed.
  
  The enviroment of the game couldn't be better. it really feels like you're in the 30's. The gameplay 
 is almost perfect including the use of guns (including, of course, the shotgun and the classic 
 Tommy machine gun) and the car driving wich gets more interesting when you find out that there 
 are cops everywere that simply don't let you break the speed limit or ignore the red lights and, 
 if you do, they'll chase you untill they get you or untill you lose the tail. Besides, they put 
 real 30's music on the game, wich makes it more realistic and accorded to the historic feeling 
 they're trying to create.
  
  We're talking about a GTA format game from 2002 that can be played today and I can assure you that 
 you'll completely enjoy it. This is one of those kind of games that makes you want to finish it 
 soon to start it all over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbrading
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Illusion Softworks really did create a veritable diamond in the rough with Mafia. Its a game that 
 received relatively little or no media attention, but which really excels in being enormously entertaining 
 and engrossing. It has one or two negative points, but they are quite minor, and mostly easy to 
 overlook. With a fantastic plot, spot-on music, memorable characters and a unique setting, Mafia 
 is to-date the best experience available in gangster themed gaming.
  
  Like any true classic gangster film or game, Mafia is set in the 1930s prohibition era of the 
 United States, in a fictional New York-esque city called Lost Heaven. You play as Thomas Tommy 
 Angelo, a taxi driver who is suddenly roped into working for the Saleri crime family, when two 
 members of the family hijack his taxi. From there, Tommy travels deeper and deeper into the criminal 
 underworld, and this serves as the basis for most of the game. Most missions consist of some driving, 
 shooting, plot development and then perhaps a little more driving. The storyline is absolutely 
 top-notch, serving as deep and interesting right from the beginning. It feels like its been pulled 
 straight from The Godfather or Once Upon a Time in America, and naturally I cant really say 
 that much more about it without spoiling it. All of the characters seem believable and realistic, 
 and are wonderfully brought to life by the excellent voice acting.
  
  Driving the 1930s era automobiles is a singular experience. All the in-game cars are based upon 
 real-life counterparts from the time (such as the Bolt automobiles are an obvious rip-off of 
 Ford) , and this being the 30s; they dont go all too well. Handling is easy and enjoyable, but 
 dont expect to be speeding around at over a hundred miles an hour. Some cars cant even get above 
 fifty. The police are some of the most realistic ever encountered in gaming. For breaking minor 
 traffic laws, such as speeding, running red lights and crashing into street furniture, they are 
 liable to come and issue a hefty fine. However, when weapons are shown, or civilians injured, their 
 attention becomes substantially more brutal. All of this just adds to the theme and general feel 
 of the game, enhancing the experience.
  
  Shooting, on the other hand, is equally well done. Aiming is nice and simple with a handy targeting 
 reticule, although there is a slightly annoying panhandle effect that is liable to happen sometimes 
 when you whirl around. There is pretty decent and realistic recoil delivered whenever you fire. 
 Gun and explosion sounds are generally superb, including a nice variety of pings when bullets 
 ricochet of walls. Unlike many other games, when you reload, you realistically loose any bullets 
 which were left in the previous clip, which was a nice little touch, and leads you to be more conservative 
 when it comes to using ammunition. It is also normally easy to fight with melee weapons and hand 
 combat, although this happens progressively less the further through the game you progress. Moving 
 around on foot generally is handled perfectly well, although the panhandle effect can come into 
 play again.
  
  It must be said that Mafia is quite difficult in a general sense, even on an easier difficulty 
 setting, and I was frequently dying at the hands of mobsters and being forced to reload. However, 
 this may just have been my poor shot and slow reactions. If you enjoy the challenge of beating 
 something, look no further.
  
  Graphically, Mafia is mainly impressive. Lost Heaven features a variety of districts, including 
 a downtown business area and more suburban and working class neighbourhoods. Citizens stroll through 
 the streets, pausing often to talk to each other, and drivers every so often pull up on the curb 
 and get out or into vehicles. There is also an expansive countryside area, which can be explored 
 during the Overtime mode, although none of it feels very lively, as there are no citizens out walking 
 about, or doing farming work. The drawn distance of the environments is a little disappointing, 
 as is the transition from viewable to out of sight area, which features minimal fogging and can 
 sometimes happen quite abruptly. However, on the upside, the interiors are all fantastic, in that 
 they are both detailed and realistic, although not particularly interactive. Character models are 
 also nicely done, and blood from dead characters forms in pools on the sidewalk.
  
  The music really does hit the target in all respects. Whilst exploring the different Lost Heaven 
 districts, a great variety of genuine 1930s music is played, including amongst others some bouncy 
 Django Reinhardt tunes on guitar. This themed music is accompanied with a full orchestral score 
 during cutscenes and other gameplay, mirroring the similarly sweeping musical accompaniments of 
 many gangster films. As already mentioned, the voice acting is faultless. General sound effects, 
 such as car engines and city sounds, are good too.
  
  Overall then, Mafia is a true piece of genuine lost gold. Although it is not without its minor 
 irritations and afflictions, the worst probably being the abrupt drawn distance, these can be overlooked 
 without too much trouble, leaving behind a game that is cinematic, enthralling, and generally tremendous 
 fun to play. A definite must for any collection.
  
  Now, I must go and find that horses head I left lying around somewhere 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c_doody_1999
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 8, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  this is the only game where im glad their is no quick save, the saves happen when you reach certain 
 points in missions, you cant rely on quicksaveing and luck, this means that you have to work at 
 each level and explore the game fully to beat it
  the npc's seam stupid, but the number of times theyv sneaked up on me an shot me to pieces is amazing
 
  you might find some levels mind bogelingly hard, but explore each level, take your time, use cover 
 find resources and you will tryumph and feel glad for it.
  
  this is the one game that never leavesa my system.
  
  imersive and breath taking 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poljancewicz
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Thats right, mafia is not a game, mafia is just the perfect game, best game ever made.
  
  The first time I played it, was because I was bored and I downloaded this game, I didn't think 
 I was gonna LOVE it, I just thought i would have a little fun with it, but since I saw the intro, 
 and played the tutorial I knew it, I was playing a very great game.
  
  I just loved all the missions, characters, the city, the weapons, cars... just everything was perfect
 
  The thing that I most loved was the story, it was just perfect, I would say better than The Godfather 
 movie. (now that I say godfather, I must say I didnt like The Godfather game... it was so bad)
 
  
  Graphics were great, they may look not so nice now though, but they were perfect for a game from 
 2002, and even now they are still good
  
  Music was... just perfect, nothing more to say
  
  The story as I said, I just loved it, since the first to the last time
  
  The city was 
 great, big and beautiful with a lot of things in it
  
  The game difficulty was not very hard, but I must say I was stuck in the last mission for like 
 1 week...
  
  And after i finally finished it, I loved it even more, the end was so good but a little sad I must 
 say...
  
  And then, I decided to thank its creators by buying 2 copies of the game, (I don't usually buy 
 games...) one for me and the other one was a gift for my cousin, who loved the game also.
  
  And it is a game which you can play more than 1 time, I played and finished it like 5 times, 
 right now I am writing this review because I installed it again haha. I will NEVER forget this 
 game
  
  Well, I would like to play a second part of mafia but, I think there is no way the story could 
 continue, and even if there was, I guess the best way to keep mafia as a masterpiece is not to 
 make a second part
  
  They could make more games like this though..
  
  As I saw in another review, Mafia can be defined just with one word: MASTERPIECE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tom_Sawyerer
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2007 2:55 am PT
Review:  This game is the best game i ever played. I just could not believe the graphics. It was as if i 
 was in my computer playing it! About the music... ya the music... one word SUPERB! The one of the 
 best thing about this game was the last mission... Every time i that part... I just feel sorry... 
 Man i have played this gave thrice and i can play this another 10 times too...
  
  Oh and also this game was pretty hard to spent about one month to complete the game...!!!
  
 
  I just loved the way the story went on... A great story line...
  
  Mafia Rocks! Great work....!
  
  Impressed by this game... I hope MAFIA 2 will be out soon...! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revert979
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 13, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  It's a shame more developers didn't take note of this awesome game because it truely does have 
 it all. Great and immersive story, furious and visceral gun battles, superb graphics (for it's 
 time) , exceptional sound effects and foley artistry, and a big city for you to explore at your 
 will to help draw you into the experience. Everything about this game bleeds atmosphere. Even the 
 era style soundtrack of jazz and big band is outstanding, and definitely something you don't hear 
 in games every day. Although the story and missions are fairly linear, I really don't hold this 
 against the game, and in fact, works more for it than against it. Considering the top notch story 
 and pacing, I couldn't imagine it any other way. In a world today dominated by multiplayer games, 
 this game is a reminder of a single player experience done right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snipzor
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 10, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  When I first played this game, it was revolutionnary (most likely since that was the third shooter 
 I ever played) and I had quickly become addicited to this game.
  
  Gameplay: It's a free world just like this game, but it isn't an easy one. The shooting is fine 
 tooned but it isn't a run and gun. Health is low and so is theirs, that means that you and the 
 enemies are evenly matched but you have strategy. But the enemy A. I. is also extremely smart so 
 you must seriously procede carefully. Driving is also the same, you cannot speed, drive to fast 
 or run over anyone you see. Your health actually goes down with collision, not to mention that 
 the cops are constantly on your tail.
  
  Graphics: Better have a good computer, because the graphics for this game can be outstanding, even 
 today. Anyways, characters look outstanding, the view is beautifull and so forth.
  
  Sound: Trust me, the sound is increadible. Guns firing sound as if the actual guns are firing (take 
 into consideration that the models are from the 1930's) . But the music is the highlight, there 
 are many great songs from the 30's including songs from Django Rihenheart (forgive my spelling) . 
 The action music is just as good.
  
  If You have the chance, PLAY THIS GAME... please, for the good of humanitiy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goodfellajd
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  There is really only one word to sum this game up and that is Masterpiece. This game came out five 
 years ago and I still love it. I can remember when it first came out how many hours I spent playing 
 it. The game starts you off as a taxi cab driver and finds himself helping a few of the dons made 
 men. You soon need there help and the game begins. I can say that this has one of the greatest 
 story lines of any game and anyone who has not played this game should. You can probably get this 
 game for under 20 dollars by now and you will not be dissapointed. The graphics are still great 
 and the atmosphere is really perfect. It is an open ended game so you can travel and learn the 
 city for hours. It has a gta feeling but much much better. The sounds of guns and the sound of 
 the city is very realistic as well. This game has definately the best voice acting ever for a game. 
 This game will enteratain anyone for hours and is a must try for any type of gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MAFIOSO_13
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2007 6:33 am PT
Review:  This game has an excellent graphics, great gameplay, great story but the
  this game is linear so that is the only thing that i don`t like in this game
  everything else 
 is perfect, the period in this game (prohibiton era) .
  This game by it`s story is like some blockbuster hit movie.
  The conversation between the characters 
 is excellent an then straight to action.
  The shooting is a little unstable but that contributes to the reality of this game
  The diving 
 is also real, the cars are realistic and authentic.
  The characters are also too real.
  The are plenty interesting missions who are gonna keep you busy and the cinemathics are preety 
 interesting and like i sad the look
  like some blockbuster movie 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WateredTruth
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 17, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  This game is a masterpiece of what a good story and a great showing of 1930s culture will make.
 
  The story begins with Tommy Angilo, a cab driver who stops for a smoke break and ends up helping 
 one of the biggest crime family in lost haven. The family than gives you a envelope and a invite 
 to join the family. After declining the next day during work you get attacked by bat wielding thugs 
 and decide to take the mafioso's offer to join and thats where it all begins. The gameplay mixes 
 GTA and old time looks for a fantastic experiance. but don't think you can get away with stuff 
 cause the constable will be after you... even for speeding. The music and voice work are extremely 
 well done with a fantastic cast of voice actors and a live orcestra along with the hits from that 
 era. The graphics may not look all to pretty nowadays but your overall experiance will change that. 
 The weapons and combat ingame are a little hard making it frustraiting to complete missions sometimes.
 
  
  In the end this game should be in the vault next to other hits because if you want mafia action 
 and a godfatheresc game this is definatly for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarlatti90
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 8, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  The story is awesome and for a game that came out in 2002, the game engine is simply marvelous. 
 The authenticity of the car physics which BTW is one of the most realistic feels in any game I 
 have played till date. The weapons and the attack system is awesome. The missions are exciting 
 with enough twists and turns to keep you at the edge of your seat. The Game cannot be compared 
 to any of the GTA games just because it stands on its own. People who have played The Godfather 
 and havent played this have seriously missed out on it. Godfather simply didnt have the intensity 
 of this game. Once you have played both you anyone will surely agree that this stands out as the 
 best. The Infamous car race which many will surely get stuck on was one of my most memorable missions 
 but after the patch the difficulty could be reduced. The believable characters fit perfectly into 
 the storyline. How much praise is given for this is less in my eyes. This will remain as the best 
 game I have played because of the variety included. Its a bumper package which will not disappoint. 
 Though I have played most of the Free roam games this simply had the best story of them all and 
 its a best buy. A 20/10 for this one. Kudos Illusion a real great job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dumbanddumber25
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 6, 2007 4:59 am PT
Review:  I think this game is one of the best games of all time one of my favorite things about this game 
 is the free ride, driving in the countryside also i love having to drive to the nearest petrol 
 station to fill up that should be in every action/adventure G. T. A style game.
  
  The goods:
  The story mode has a excellent story line, The map is a good size for driving space, 
 the range of 60 plus cars to drive from trucks to sports cars, the range of weaponry used for the 
 game, having to drive a certain speed limit and if break that law and the cops see you you get 
 a ticket and fine.
  
  The bads:
  The shirt ripping, hair pulling out hardness of some missions (which can get VERY frustrating) .
 
  
  Overall i think this game is pretty awesome and even if the missions are frustrating and hard its 
 still worth it in the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stamper7
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 24, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  One of mafias strong points is its sense of realism. Say if you ran a red light and the police 
 were around they would go after you; if you broke the speed limit they would go after you. Your 
 probably thinking hey cops after us all the time that wouldnt make a fun game but as it is easy 
 to get them it is easy to lose them you could stop and all that would happen is they give you a 
 speeding ticket and off you go. Also there is fuel and a mph gagdge in cars and you can set a speed 
 limiter.
  
  There are more then 60 authentic vehicles like trucks convertibles and sports cars you cant just 
 go round stealing them until you know how to pick the locks as you advance though the story mode 
 you learn to pick more and more locks so you can take any car you want on free roaming mode
  
  There are more then 20 missions with sub quests you can use a massive arrange of weapons which 
 then you can use on free mode including baseball bats, magnums and Tommy guns it makes this game 
 have lots of reply value just going on free mode and having fun
  
  The city it is set in has over 12 square miles of land to explore there is country side to visit 
 which is not marked on the map as well it is a very good simulation of a 1930's American city with 
 all the simulated traffic landmarks and the surrounding landscapes that evolve over time. You can 
 travel around this city with the network of trolley cars or the elevated railway; these two are 
 great for losing cops.
  
  Another great aspect of this game is the fully motion-captured character animations facial motion 
 and lip-synch technology which personalize the massive cast of characters throughout the game this 
 in the mission mode gets you submerged into the game and once you start playing you dont want 
 to stop.
  
  The LS3D engine developed by illiousion soft works delivers one of the most advance car physics 
 system ever used in a game including real-time damage to cars, realistically render city environments 
 and highly detailed interior locations these all add up to a beautiful looking graphics and the 
 cars feel just like you would expect a 1930's car too.
  
  Overall Mafia is an excellent game it has a great storyline, great graphics and has lots and lots 
 of replay value it has realistic sound and everything in that city you would expect from a 1930's 
 town, This in many ways Mafia is the best pc game I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenTom
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2006 1:54 am PT
Review:  Mafia is the highly anticipated game from developers Illusion Softworks who were responsible for 
 one of the best sleeper hits of the late 1990's, Hidden and Dangerous. There latest offering Mafia, 
 is a third person shooter that is based in the troubled times of the 1930's where Al Capone ruled 
 the streets of Chicago and prohibition was enforced. In Mafia, you play the role of Tommy who has 
 unwittingly joined the ranks of the Mafia but as we all know, once you're in, it's extremely hard 
 to get out.
  
  Because Mafia is a mission based game, you start as a lowly driver for them that has you driving 
 important people around the city but as you become more liked and successful, you will soon find 
 yourself body guarding, assassinating and participating in gang warfare that is all part of the 
 magic of this game. Like Vice City, Mafia is a game of crime that is based in the world of the 
 30's gangsters. By successfully completing these missions, you will eventually be accepted into 
 the Salieri family and hopefully make your way into the history books. Although the game is primarily 
 a story-based game, there is also a free-ride option that lets you explore the streets of Lost 
 Heaven and even set various attributes of the game such as the density of police, pedestrians and 
 vehicles. The control system of Mafia can be tricky at the best of times but once you have worked 
 out what everything does, the game is actually quite playable. Your character Tommy can perform 
 a variety of different functions in the game such as driving various vehicles, running, walking 
 and using weaponry.
  
  One of the most impressive features of the game is that you can actually drive a car with one hand 
 and then use your other hand to shoot, tricky, yes but a hell of a lot of fun. The combat in Mafia 
 isn't as complicated as Vice City or Max Payne and you will have no trouble taking out your enemies 
 without any fiddle some control system. Graphically, Mafia is a visual treat and looks almost identical 
 to the movie by Touchstone pictures called The Untouchables that starred Sean Connery and Kevin 
 Costner and although the game is set in a city called Lost Heaven, the city looks very similar 
 to the Chicago of the 30s. Everything also has this earthly brown tone to it and all the buildings, 
 cars and characters are beautiful portrayed in this era of prohibition. All the characters in the 
 game contain a high amount of polygons that are extremely well animated and contain extremely realistic 
 texture models. In its essence, Mafia is almost a carbon copy of the PlayStation 2's Grand Theft 
 Auto Vice City but unfortunately every now and then, the game does suffer from frame rate problems. 
 Unlike Vice City where everything is open, Mafia seems more closed but does have impressive draw 
 distance. Illusion have also done a great job on the realism of the car as there are virtually 
 tons of destructible items lying around and even the tyres of cars can be shot out with guns. Although 
 Mafia does not offer any CGI cut scenes, the game uses its own engine to help push the storyline 
 through in-game cut scenes that are flawless as the game itself.
  
  The soundtrack of Mafia is extremely professional and sounds straight out of the 30's with various 
 scores ranging from swing to orchestral pieces to help set the atmosphere of the title. Truly, 
 an almost Hollywood like soundtrack for Mafia. The voice acting of Mafia is also top notch and 
 features a variety of different characters with various accents of the 1930's from the upper class 
 to the lower class of denizens. Apart from the impressive soundtrack and voice acting, Mafia also 
 offers an amazing ambience of background sounds that range from a variety of different things to 
 the bustle of traffic in the background or to the sounds of rain hitting the dirt. Mafia and its 
 Hollywood like atmosphere is a much needed game on the PC as everyone is creating games that already 
 exist and this game stands above the others. Mafia has amazing graphics and gameplay that will 
 make this game to be long remembered. Highly Recommended!
  
  Game Features
  -Mafia 15+ -Enter the American underworld of the 1930's -Over 20 Action packed missions -Drive 
 more than 60 authentic vehicles -Choose from a huge arsenal of weaponry -Explore 12 square miles 
 of this 1930's American city -Full motion-captured character animation -3 CD's -Manual -City Map 
 of Lost Heaven -Free-Ride Option that lets you explore and change the city of Lost Heaven 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXxXeNoCiDexXx
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 21, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Great game, compared to Grand Theft Auto III, this game is a masterpiece. It's surprising that 
 a small company can pump out such a great game. The game is pretty damn realistic. The only bad 
 part... is the cars speed... Some of the cars are wayy to freaking slow to be even on the road, but 
 then again they are old ass cars. The missions are just great. A true mafia game. If you ever wanted 
 to have the feeling of being a mobster, this game is for you. Just a classic game. One of the best 
 games out there.
  Fantastic game overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ahandil
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 14, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  Yes, yes.. Another GTA clone. But a great one, indeed!! MAFIA gives more importance to story, almost 
 everything is attached to it. That makes it quite linear and sometimes frustrating, but in the 
 other hand it&acute; s absolutely a game of atmosphere. The graphics are great, and so are the movies 
 that carry on the story. You shall really feel in the mid 30&acute; s as a soldier of the family, 
 driving old cars, shooting old guns and hearing jazz as the only soundtrack. M16s and cocaine from 
 GTA are replaced by booze and Thompsons, but it&acute; s quite the same although. Drive where your 
 boss told you to go, kill the bad guys (OK, there is a shortness of the good ones) and drive back 
 home. Again, very simple and sometimes monotonous, but never boring as wasn&acute; t GTA. But here 
 come the differences: all that almost childish looks and unreal physics common to GTA are gone 
 and a more realistic world takes over. A few crashes and you&acute; ll have to abandon your useless 
 car or risk to run onto EVERY wall in the city as it get impossible to lead. A few shoots it&acute; s 
 all you need to kill or get killed, so your enemies will try to look for cover or crouch to avoid 
 your bullets. You won&acute; t go through the city carrying loads of guns and ammo, most missions 
 start with just a Colt and a few rounds so you have to put them to good use and not throw them 
 like candies. Of course you can get more from some cold dead hands - but you need to get them cold 
 first! Meanwhile, you have to play the good guy while you are driving to or back a mission and 
 a cop is around - just showing a gun or crashing is enough to get arrested and GAME OVER! Forget 
 the high-speed chases, the rocket launchers and the Hulk-style-city-destruction and most of the 
 humour. You will have some big fat killings, thats right, and you&acute; ll need more than three 
 tries to get through them - just to mention, running away the entire police, you hide inside a 
 church... just to find the funeral of a guy you just killed is taking place and someone recognises 
 you! It&acute; s quite a hard game sometimes and can get a bit frustrating after the tenth time 
 you try to waste a pack of enemies by yourself, but there is always a way and it&acute; s not always 
 the first you see and perhaps a little change of strategy can make a big difference. It&acute; s 
 not a clone, it&acute; s an evolution for good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newyork_graffit
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 12, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  The Mob, La Cosa Nostra, Mafia, or whatever you prefer to call it is the most famous criminal organizations 
 of all time. Made particulary famous by Al Capone and the late Teflon Don John Gotti. Many have 
 tried to imitate it through media. The Godfather tried it and pass with flying freakin' colors. 
 The Sopranos tried it and exceeded expectations. Mafia, a video game for the PC tries it and does 
 not do so well.
  
  Mafia is a third-person action/adventure game from Illusion Softworks. It puts you in the sh... 
 well, actually Loafers, of Thomas Tommy Angelo, a former cab driver for the city of Lost Heaven 
 turned mobster for the Saleri Family. The game features driving, driving, driving, and driving. 
 Oh, I forgot there is a little shooting too. The driving is the main aspect of Mafia. It actually 
 really sucks too. Since the game is set in the '30's and '40's, you drive around in that era's 
 vehicles. The cars are all really, really, really, really slow. Even the really fast Roadsters 
 are really slow. After nearly every mission, you must return to Saleri's Bar. This is usually on 
 the other side of the town. So, after every mission, you have to drive at no more than 25 mph over 
 a bridge and through a tunnel to get to a simple destination. The driving gets very repetetive 
 and annoying, as it takes forever.
  
  The combat is basic run-and-gun action. The game has 6 weapons at your diposal. They are all reletivly 
 different. However, the combat isn't all that realistic. You can shoot an enemy twice with a shotgun 
 and they can get up and blow you away with a Colt Detective Special Revolver. The AI isn't actually 
 intelligent at all. The enemies, both mobsters from a rival Family, and cops are pretty ignorant. 
 They crouch down behind air and leave themselves out in the open for you to shoot. The combat can 
 be pretty decent at first, but it can be so much more.
  
  The story is one resembling a mixture of The Godfather, Goodfellas, and the orginal 1932 Scarface. 
 It is actually very intuative and well thought out. All the missions, however are basically the 
 same. Drive to a marked location, shoot the people, get out of there. There is no change in them.
 
  
  The sound is pretty good. The cars all sound like their counterparts, consdering that they all 
 sound alike anyways. The guns are buyable. The voice acting anf the music is actually where the 
 sound shines. The actors portraying the murderous mobsters are all decent sounding. The only one 
 that actually sounds pretty flat and stupid is Saleri himself. The music is about 4 music tracks 
 from the 30's and 40's.
  
  Although Mafia is a well thought out idea, it could've used some touching up. The gameplay is repetive, 
 the combat sucks, and the driving fails miserably. My grandfather was actually in the Gambino Family 
 and I could have alot more fun listening to him then playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ziegd
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 17, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Given the huge popularity of the GTA series, would it be such a huge crime if Illusion Softworks 
 borrowed some concepts from those games? Personally, I don't think so. I love certain elements 
 of the Grand Theft Auto games, so if some developer takes those same aspects and puts a slightly 
 different spin on them, it means I get another game full of stuff I like.
  
  Regardless of where the ideas originally came from, fans of GTA will find a lot to like about Mafia, 
 and people who have never played a Rockstar release will find a unique and entertaining experience, 
 sans a lot of the foul language prevalent in GTA. Steering the young protagonist in his rise from 
 common thug to a Mafia captain is great fun, and the surprise ending is satisfyingly bitter-sweet. 
 Although not as open-ended as the GTA games, many of the missions are more challenging, which is 
 a welcome trade-off. The vintage cars, music and locations provide a refreshingly unique environment, 
 and I found myself thoroughly engaged from the very beginning.
  
  The Bottom Line: Mafia probably won't appeal to die-hard fans of run-and-gun first person shooters, 
 but gamers looking for something a little different will find this little gem to be an extremely 
 enjoyable diversion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xize
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 5, 2006 7:27 am PT
Review:  its a realy good game graphics are good to in that time i had play that game its realy classic 
 maffia but some missions are realy hard like to kill the mafia boss its realy hard but you can 
 do everything only not every time on a mission! i dont know realy! i have play this game not so 
 long! and played a year back or something but i know you can shoot cars stuck and you see every 
 part of the car exploded and fly away! but the godfather game is a lot better because all things 
 are newer! but this is i think one of the first 3d game mafia game and then i dont mean grandtheft 
 auto because thats a lot newer! in the citys etc 
::::::

::::::
UserName: generalwilliam
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 21, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  You start the game as a cab driver having to help Sam and Paulie, two of Don Saglieri's - your 
 future boss - men, escape from Don Morelli's men. You run around the city with your cab trying 
 to get them off your tail. Once you do that, you have to leave Paulie and Sam in Saglieri's bar.
 
  
  They give you a nice reward in cash and the next day Don Morelli's guys come to you and destroy 
 your cab. Tommy, your character in the game, then decides to join Don Saglieri.
  
  The game has a very unique and well thought storyline that will keep you involved the whole time. 
 It's like a book doesn't let you stop reading it for the emotion of the next page. It has one of 
 the most unique stories I have ever seen in a game. Story is a very important detail in the game 
 and as you can see both graphics and sound are stunning what makes you realized how much attention 
 developers dedicated to this masterpiece.
  
  The game has an awesome soundtrack that really makes you feel playing the game fun. Music is not 
 modern as the game happens around the 40's but that doesn't mean old style musics can't be cool.
 
  
  Graphics are really impressive. The cars are what look the best in the game. They're incredibly 
 detailed both in colors and designs and they really existed (just do you don't think developers 
 made them up form their own minds) . Characters and buildings look pretty good as well just not 
 as perfect as the cars.
  
  It does not have the option of playing multiplayer but you can play 'Free Rides', which are the 
 part of the game you don't have any mission and that lets you choose the car you want to ride around 
 the city getting money your own way (going over the speed limit, exploding other cars, etc) . This 
 money you can use to fuel your car (nicely thought right?) , heal yourself and buy new weapons. 
 There are also special missions in which you can try add new cars to add to your collection.
  
  As there's only one campaign, no 'do it your way' possibility and apart from cars there are 
 no other 'collectibles' (or other things like this) that make you wanna play the game again to 
 get you might not find it too fun to play it again all the time. Still a great game, instant classic. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwlanning
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 21, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  I discovered Mafia some years after it was released. I had just watched the movie True Romance 
 , which includes a great Mafioso scene with Christopher Walkin, and had a sudden urge to find a 
 good Mafia computer game and play it. Sure enough, I search for mafia computer game and up pops 
 Mafia. Even though a dated game when I bought it, I fell in love with it and played it for months 
 and months.
  
  So whats the best part about Mafia? Its the recreation of prohibition-era gangland. Everything 
 is in this game contributes to the atmosphere, which will soon overtake you and make you want to 
 start talking in a New Jersey accent and insert obscenities between every other word when you speak. 
 If you wanted a Mafia game, this is the only game you ever need to play. All the little details 
 of the game are great; driving, sound quality, and combat. The story is also very compelling and 
 will have your heart pumping more than once as you make your way through life as a Mafioso. The 
 primary feature that draws you into the game is the city. Lost Heaven is a complete recreation 
 of a city in the 1920s, complete with traffic, street cars, pedestrians, stop lights, police presence, 
 and an interurban railroad. Most of your missions will require you to drive from your base of operations 
 to some place in the city, and just getting there is half the fun of the game. Driving around in 
 Mafia is a unique experience, because youll be dealing with other motorists that do plenty of 
 ill-conceived driving moves, pedestrians that cross the road at the wrong moment, and also police 
 that will attempt to pull you over and fine you for running red lights, speeding, and hitting other 
 vehicles. You have two options when this happens: pull over and pay the fine, or run. If you run 
 and dont get away, however, the game is over. At any time you can pull to the side of the road 
 and steal somebody elses car (assuming youve been taught how to get into it) , or simply carjack 
 them while theyre at a red light. Just make sure you do that while no cops are around.
  
  I remember one time running from the cops (completely outside the plotline) , and surviving so long 
 that my car would barely move. I was crossing one of the big bridges in town when I ran into heavy 
 traffic and was surrounded by cop cars, apparently with no escape. I crawled out of my dead car, 
 shot a cop that saw me (hey, its what Mafiosos do) using my last bullet, then picked up his gun 
 in anticipation of having a final shootout to the death. I then noticed that I could sneak around 
 amongst the tangled mess of automobiles and I did so, managing to make my way to one of the police 
 cars the cops had just jumped out of. Thankfully it was still running, and I hopped in and drove 
 away as a free man. Its that kind of action that is possible in the world of Mafia, and that's 
 even before the game gets going.
  
  Missions in Mafia are often exceptionally difficult, so you'll find yourself quick saving and quick 
 loading often, depending on what mission you're doing. You can also screw yourself over if you 
 waste too much ammunition early on, so passing missions in Mafia takes a measure of restraint. 
 The game is very deep, including a racing mini-game early on in the plotline (which was so hard 
 they had to patch it to make it easier) and the Free Ride and Free Ride Extreme features which 
 are unlocked as you play the game. The Free Ride Extreme is where the game gets pure fun as you 
 run around trying to unlock hot rods, limousines, and tanks.
  
  A game such as this sadly does not come along very often, combining non-linear gameplay with a 
 linear but compelling and action-packed plotline. A sequel has always been cried for, but has never 
 and quite possibly will never be forthcoming. That being said, Mafia is a game which every gamer 
 should play to its entirety. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DREU66
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 21, 2006 12:26 am PT
Review:  Mafia es desde luego uno de los mejores juegos de la historia y sin duda el mejor hecho hasta la 
 fecha del mundo de la mafia. Es un juego que lo tiene todo, gr&aacute; ficos, historia inmersita, 
 conducci&oacute; n, acci&oacute; n, etc. y un nivel de dificultad suficiente para que sea un reto 
 sin llegar a desesperarte. Aunque la carrera a m&iacute; lleg&oacute; a desesperarme ya que era 
 incapaz de finalizarla. En resumen una aut&eacute; ntica obra de arte que se ha hecho con un sitio 
 en la historia de los videojuegos. S&oacute; lo algunos peque&ntilde; os bugs ensombrecen mismamente 
 esta aut&eacute; ntica maravilla.
  
  If you like the PC Games not doubt it. This is your game. You will enjoy yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nitrous998
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2006 6:23 am PT
Review:  got this game when if first come out
  got it from pakistan. well actually my aunt bought it 4 me.
  
  i fought what the hell is this? 
 i neva heard of the game. it lay in my draw untouched for bout a month. one day i opened my draw, 
 saw it and because i was bored i installed it just to laugh at it.
  
  from the minute it started i was blown away
  
  simply amazing is the word. i loved that old 
 skoll feel to it. it really makes u feel u there is the game. the story is the best story in any 
 video game and probably in any hollywood movie.
  
  trust me. if u love gta u gotta try this.
  
  its a must have.
  
  its so good i aint even 
 gonna try to convince u by telling u the pros and cons.
  just get it and cherish it for eva. dont make the mistaek i made at first and let it go by coz 
 u gonna regret it.
  
  safe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fahad2mail
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 11, 2006 4:17 am PT
Review:  1st of all, i have to say that Mafia is one of my best game i ever played. It is a clasic game. 
 Plot is 1930 and place is Little Havana. Developer did a great job in this game. There are many 
 games available in the market which shows the lifestyle of Mafia and ganglider. But i think no 
 games get to close as Mafia did. This is a perfect picture of Mafia's lifestyle, their works and 
 many more. The main thing of the game is its storyline and its gameplay. Many one think that Mafia 
 is stolen from GTA. But i have to say them that though there are few things same in Mafia and GTA 
 cause they are in same catagory (Action Adventure Game) . But this two game is completely different. 
 GTA is some kind of fantasy based real life game. But Mafia, A true lifetime image. Where every 
 time, every part of the game is so real that you will surprize. U start here your carriar as a 
 texi driver. Unfortunately one day you messed up with a gang team to help other team. The story 
 starts from here. I have to say that Mafia has a unique storyline of its own. This is so much attractive 
 and surprizing. You have to beg to Mafia boss i mean Godfather who save those people who are kneel 
 down to him. There are many mission in this game. They all are divided into small parts. You will 
 see cutseen each time you finished the job and ready for next mission. The Little Havana is a very 
 big city. You can do whatever you want in the game. There are many submission in this game. If 
 you complete them you can carn money and many more things. You can drive all over the city. There 
 is one train system in the game too. But it will unlock later. You can use many weapons in the 
 game. Though the ammo is limited. But dont worry. You can buy ammo from ammo house or loot ammo 
 from your dead enemy. The AI of the enemy in this game is also amazing. They will attack you with 
 gun at 1st. And when their gun is empty, they will atack you with knife or baseball bat. One thing 
 i must say, POLICE. This is one dangerous thrat in the game. They are too much aggresive. If you 
 did wrong, They will come after you with their full force and this is challanging to escape from 
 them. The sound of the game is also great. Not great, this is amazing. It will keep you in track 
 of the game. The Graphysics is also great. Every part of the game detailed greatly. No other game 
 will come close to its time. For fullfill your mission, some time you have to race, car chasing 
 or have to use stealth. You will earn money, fame every time you complete your mission. Mafia is 
 a uniue game. If you spend some time on this, you will be thinking that you are a part of the game. 
 You will be thinking that this is not a game. This is true. If anyone sees you playing the game, 
 he or she will deffinetly thinking that this is a movie, not game. Every action, Every part of 
 the game is detailed so smoothly that u will also be thinking that this is a movie. Many action, 
 Many things to do, Many climex at the end, and many more things, Mafia is one of the best game 
 ever. So play it, and enter the world of Mafia and be a part of Mafia era. have fun......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holy_dave
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 4, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  On has to be careful when reveiwing a four year old game. Technology has moved on since, genres 
 have died and have been born, and games have generally been bettered by other games. Mafia has 
 aged excellently, and though there are other games that look better, there are few that play better.
 
  
  I recently picked up the game in the bargain bin of my local GameStation for a measly &pound;4.99, 
 and got it home and booted it up on to my computer. Needless to say, today's technology eats the 
 game whole, and on a 7800GT the game looks stunning.
  
  It uses the same engine as the (also excellent) Hidden and Dangerous 2, and looks very similar, 
 minus ragdolls and blood decals. I was at first blown away by the size and extreme detail of Lost 
 Heaven, the game's city, constantly thinking this game has been built on the Hidden and Dangerous 
 2 engine, how can it make this city?? ; but then I realised that Hidden and dangerous 2 was built 
 on the Mafia engine. The Mafia engine is perefect for rendering the city - the excellent building 
 textures, the realistically proportioned pedestrians, and, most importantly, the sublime physics 
 of the cars.
  
  The game takes place between 1933-1938, and the cars follow suit. There are over 60, and most are 
 old bangers which can barely touch 70mph. Now, while this may be an offputting prospect, let me 
 tell you that these cars are bloody fun to drive. Each and every one feels different. Be it in 
 traction, weight, speed or handling, every car is unique. The driving physics feel 'right' - it'll 
 take a while to accelerate and a while to stop, the turning is as tight as a real car, and no matter 
 what speed you drive, you'll have bags of fun.
  
  When your car crashes at high speeds, a substantial portion of you character's health is eaten 
 away, and there have been times when I've been driving at 180mph in a racing car and had a fatal 
 crash, which is alot cooler than it sounds. You get that rebel without a cause feeling, and you'll 
 relish it. This of course raises more possibilities. In one mission I was chasing another car along 
 a country highway (more about those later) . We managed to drift over to the wrong side of the road, 
 and my quarry suffered a head on collision. All inside were killed, and I got a 'mission complete', 
 and felt very proud of myself. Looking at the enemy car, the monnet was churning out thich black 
 smoke, the front of the car was crumpled, the bumper and headlamps were nowhere to be found, and 
 the driver was slumped over the wheel while the horn beeped a constant. Now if that doesn't scream 
 Gangster Film at you, nothing will. Apart from this:
  
  Running into a room full of enemies and spraying them full fo lead with a thompson sub machinegun, 
 blood spraying everywhere as your foes crumple to the floor in a perfect animation (far surpassing 
 ragdolls in my humble opinion, and you don't even get wall clipping) . Wow. It was at this point 
 that I conceded that this was up there in my top five, maybe even my holy trinity with Morrowind 
 and Neverwinter Nights.
  
  The city is simply huge, and leads me onto a minor niggle. The draw distance isn't great, maybe 
 about 300-400m, which is annoying seeing as there is no tweak to combat this and I know my computer 
 can do better. However, you will come to ignore this and revel in the clockwork of Lost Heaven. 
 Trains clatter along suspended railways and trollys trundle through the traffic clogging the roads. 
 Exellectly animated and modelled pedestrians saunter accross the throughways while cars beep madly 
 at them. Barges creep along the rivers, causing two of the bridges to fold (which is a terrifying 
 prospect in a police chase) .
  
  And just as you might be getting sick of the 40mph speed limit enforced by the fascist police force, 
 the game takes you out of the city and into the massive countryside surrounding Lost heaven. I 
 know this sounds silly, but I actually felt at peace driving across massive gorges and through 
 forests. This game is special.
  
  And it's moments like taking a train through the city in the middle of the night, jumping a bridge 
 in a model T ford-a-like, whacking fully deformable cars with a baseball bat, firing a brief pistol 
 shot into the head of a crawling gangster, and I could go on. This game is simply one of the best 
 ever made. there is not one point where you feel bored, hell, the 1.2 patch even makes the racing 
 car section playable for the troglodytes who could'nt do it in the first place (the realistic car 
 physics make it as hard and as fun as a mini Grand Prix Legends) . Please, please, please, buy this 
 game. At &pound;4.99, you're paying for hours upon hours of exitement. I didn't even mention the 
 brilliant (if a but clich&eacute; d) story or the great voice acting or the fantasic characters 
 or the excellent in-engine cutscenes or the bloody wonderful soundtrack featuring moving orchestral 
 pieces to catchy trad jazz tunes that had me hunting the internet to find them.
  
  It's an offer you can't refuse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyle939
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2006 6:06 am PT
Review:  I think Mafia is the best game ever made. If I remeber correctly, it was released before GTA, and 
 it has better graphics, and gameplay than GTA I think. I can only hope that they make a Mafia 2, 
 and say that the old dude that died in the end was someone close to Tommy, or Tommy's son takes 
 over and he becomes the boss of it all or something, and have an online/ LAN enabled in the game, 
 make it up to date, with all the modern cars we see today, and make them customiseable, I don't 
 care if the game is 10GB or more, I will get it, just don't make it to intense, the graphics for 
 Mafia are quiet good, so keep it the same, or make them abit better, but keep all the things like 
 stopping an engine, starting an engine, the suspension Etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmiquila
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 30, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  Mafia is one of those games you will remember for a long time. Not only is the gameplay astounding, 
 but also the story, and the characters, and the overall historical set-up. Mafia is good in so 
 many ways that is hard to find were to start. At some point during the game, you will really think 
 you are controlling Tommy's fate and that it hasn't been already defined by some game designer. 
 The way you go from being the average guy to become a well respected member of your "family" is 
 just too smart, very well developed. Even the game the way is auto-saved fits nicely into the history 
 and the gameplay. It has to be that way, even if some people have complained about it
  
  The gameplay is very realistic. You will drive the same kind of cars the mafia members drove, will 
 use their same weapons, will have the same good vs. evil conflicts they surely had and you will 
 succeed or fail depending on if you act like a Mafioso or not. You are also physically very vulnerable, 
 more vulnerable that any other characters I've remember playing in this genre. First you have no 
 shields, just wear a nice an expensive suit. Second, your guns have the real life amount of bullets 
 they can carry, you do really run out of ammo often and you also take some time to reload your 
 weapon, so shooting like a mad man, thing you can do in many other games on this genre, is not 
 a winning strategy. Third, using the weapons is also as hard as it is in real life. Shooting from 
 a distance just work for long range pistols or powerful rifles, the kickback you get from the faithful 
 Thomson machine gun is so real you'll have trouble aiming it right and in general you don't have 
 a great aim, and it is easy to miss your shots, as it is in real life. Fourth, healing kits are 
 scarce, and when you find them they don't heal you fully. This can make the game very hard in some 
 missions, but is so real you will enjoy it and learn to play it differently
  
  The story is truly amazing and very well structured. It is easy to see what's going on; why Tommy 
 ended up this way and how hard it is to give up once you get into that way of life. It is basically 
 a 1930s gangster's movie you play and interact with. The historical set-up is also very realistic, 
 with a city that feels and sounds like the 1930s Chicago or New York, complete with cars that makes 
 a lot of noise, send out a lot of smoke to the air, with tires that screech if they take a curve 
 too fast and that bumps madly into everything they hit (suspension was awful those days) . When 
 you drive the cars fast, they become very unstable, just as those old cars were, and it is very 
 easy to spin or to end up upside down. You will have a good sense of this during the racing mission, 
 which is probably one of the hardest races around in these kind of games, even harder that many 
 of the GTA series races. Also, cars take a long time to crank, and their acceleration sucks in 
 the majority of them, just as they were at that time
  
  But the game has some flaws that are worth to mention. Default controls are cumbersome. In my case, 
 I had to redefine them to make them more standard to other games I've played in this genre, something 
 very easy to do, by the way. Some missions are way too long, and can become repetitive, and the 
 auto-saving system not always help you in all the steps of the missions, and if you fail (thing 
 very easy too do) you'll have to go all over again. Doing this several times can become tedious. 
 Also, the way Tommy interacts with the virtual world is irregular, sometimes very easy and obvious 
 and sometimes almost impossible to do. It would have been nice also that Tommy could have swim 
 or climb walls or run faster. He can only jump, and very short distance and climb small steps. 
 This takes something from a game that could have been perfect
  
  But overall a great game, one of the best on this genre for sure. I highly recommended it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: federico06
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  The best Mob Game in all the history
  A we all know other games this is the best one in its genre.
  
  The weapons, the cars the IA 
 are the best. I have seen to much games like this but no one of them could beat it.
  As a very good story Mafia is the collection of a Mob story that send us to the real world in the 
 1930 to 1945.
  I have enjoyed it in all the modes as the free ride and the story mode, that show us real weapons 
 with a shot trial never seen.
  It isn&acute; t to difficult so we can enjoy every single mission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bootsakah
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 9, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  I played this game a few years ago, and looking back it was one of the most enjoyable games I have 
 ever played. A few annoyances are the inability to save the game where ever you want, but the built 
 in system is actually pretty good (saves at the important parts) , but occasionally you drive clear 
 across town only to screw up and have to drive it again, but a minor annoyance. And the car race 
 portion of the game was practically impossible to win at the time I played, maybe they have since 
 patched it, but at the time I just used a hack to get past it after several attempts. In general 
 though the game was excellent. The storyline was very believable and immersive, the city felt alive 
 and was fun to explore and learn how to drive. I loved how the cars got better as time went by 
 and how the fashion changed as well. The missions were all varied and extremely fun. In general 
 I would recommend this game to anyone who enjoys a great first person shooter but is looking for 
 a great story to compell you to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AllSystemsGo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 9, 2006 4:09 am PT
Review:  Mafia is simply a game that smoothly blends a smart plot (inspired by the greatest Mafioso movies) 
 with a setting that immerses you into the 1920s - 1930s city lifestyle and great game-play and 
 graphics that are on par if not exceeding GTAs latest installment San Andreas.
  
  It boasts hands down the best storyline of all the previous, present and maybe even future action/adventure 
 titles even if some of the missions have been stolen from other sources. The story contains all 
 the ingredients needed to create a superb story which includes love, horror, action, vengeance 
 and betrayal. You begin your adventure as a taxi driver, then rise the ranks of the underworld 
 gaining respect amongst your fellow mobsters and notoriety amongst the citizens, the police and 
 your rivals. A simple man is enticed by the world of organised crime which envelops him and sends 
 him on a ride that changes his life, which he seemingly dismounts at the right time. Who said the 
 life of a crim was easy?
  
  Missions in Mafia are varied and fun to do. You will race, drive a getaway car, Chase getaway cars, 
 run on rooftops, destroy cars, assassinate people and may more activities. The environments that 
 you must navigate are equally varied. You will find yourself at docks, on a boat, and even a museum.
 
  
  All the cars in Mafia had a distinctly different feeling to each other. The speed and handling 
 difference in each car is felt even more when the garage is full of the faster cars that populate 
 Lost Heaven. These differences in control and overall feel aren't limited to the vehicles as the 
 armament is also varying. The colt. is very soft sounding and doesn't inflict much damage while 
 the shotgun especially in its initial use feels extremely powerful and can batter enemies who approach 
 you too closely. And the Tommy gun is wild and has fierce repeating fire that puts multiple holes 
 in your adversaries quickly.
  
  The music in Mafia is brilliant. Each piece of music, each sound and each voice in the game is 
 purposeful and is implemented perfectly. Other than some lip syncing issues (which i can forgive) 
 the voice actings' quality is superb. Its design and the execution of its story and gameplay are 
 far greater than any other game that's similar. Mafia entices you with an utterly superb game and 
 you'd be crazy not to accept. Hopefully there'll be another game that manages to pass this games 
 high benchmarks so I can stop hearing GTA clone all the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game10freak
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 7, 2006 12:51 am PT
Review:  Mafia has a very realalisic format. you cant speed, run red lights of hit and runs, unlike gta. 
 this makes you think more and offers a chalenge unlike any other game. the cars are amazing and 
 for any car lover this is a must with the vintage cars. the missions are chalenging and long so 
 you cant beat it in the first week of having the game. it also has a free ride and free ride Extreem 
 mode where you can roam the map doing side missions without the restraints of stroy mode. if you 
 are looking for a good shooter, this classic is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bpmf
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 1, 2006 9:42 am PT
Review:  ok MAFIA a game about mobsters money and war.
  this game is one of the greatest games you ever play.
  when youll play this game youll really 
 understand how the mafia is running everything!.
  like some of us know in this game is 2 gangs our gang: salieri .salieri is also the don and a good 
 man.
  and the enemy gang that rules by the one who is called: morallo .
  this is all start when you {tommy angelo} a taxi driver in the 1930's is having his coffee break 
 and having an un expecting visit from the 2 salieris man: paulie and sam.
  you take them in to your cab to escape the other mobsters that chase them and you.
  after you 
 rescue them the don is very greatful and is saying that he have a job for you.
  now in the first tine tommy doesnt think about apy a visit at the don restaurant but he changes 
 his mind when some of morallo mobsters found tommy and started to destroy his car and beat him 
 up tommy is escaping to salieris.
  after that the don is saving him and from then tom started to do jobs and missions for the don 
 with paulie and sam. this game have great story {what i talled was nothing yet} ; great graphics and 
 awsome game play and sounds.
  you will learn a lot about the mafia business.
  this game was develop by illusion softworks and published by gathering.
  im hardly recommend 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parkp333
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 11, 2006 6:39 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games that have been made so far so i would advise anyone that has not 
 got it to get it now and i hope that all of you will get a good time out of it. This game has some 
 really good graphics, if you compare it to the popular grand theft auto you get the difference 
 this game has more linear graphics if you see what i mean. it took me 14 h and some minutes to 
 finish it and for a game with only 20 missions i think that this is impressive. I think that there 
 is a feature that you do not see often in PC games now days this is that you do not get to save 
 the computer saves at the end of a misson or things like that but you do not get to hit the quick 
 save button every second in the game so that is a nice feature in some ways but some times you 
 wish that was not there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viper_con
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 8, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  This is normally not my style of gameplay. However, I really enjoyed playing this game. It is a 
 mix between the old GTA and 1920 mobster movies. Great era for this genre. The vehicles are great, 
 the graphics, and physics are terrific, the story line stays on cue. This game sticks to the actual 
 timeframe of the mobster bootlegging era without the Big named character hits that you would normally 
 expect from the title. (ie: Capone, Corleone, Seagal, Lucious, etc.)
  
  I wouldn't expect anything less from this company. Keep up the good development work, guys. I can't 
 wait until your next installment of game genre.
  
  Thanks again for the oportunity to experience this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liquid_ninja
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 29, 2006 1:18 am PT
Review:  I love this game. I beat it almost 4 times now and I still love it. It's a little on the easy side 
 but that's fine. It holds fun and shows the life of the Mafia and some of the best people seen 
 in a game. Everyone has great behaviors and the voice acting ain't that bad. I wish it was longer 
 and there was more people to meet and interact with. More gangs to work for and become a freelancer 
 in the Mafia world. But all in all, the game is worth buying if you havn't yet, I saw it in the 
 store for $10 so it's not much at all. If you havn't played it, GET IT NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damariners
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 22, 2006 11:29 pm PT
Review:  This is the game. Quite simply, Mafia is one of the best games of the year.
  Now I know why they rate this game high enough. It is one of the best games I have ever played. 
 Huhu. Godfather?? Nah. The creator of Godfather focus too much on graphical part but not the story 
 line, they still have a lot to learn from the mafia creator... I hope there is going to be Mafia 
 2, with more focus on graphical part and of course the story line... Well just want to congrat 
 to Illusion Softworks for the good work. MAFIA THE BEST! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kim_nielsen
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 16, 2006 11:50 pm PT
Review:  I have just watch the 3 movies The Godfather, and then started Mafia again and I can now see were 
 they got the great idea, people who have watch The Godfather movies, would know what i'm saying, 
 and try to think about it.
  
  it's a great idea and it's work very wel, because in the game you feel like you are in a movie, 
 and some of the persons in Mafia reminded my of som from The Godfather movies.
  
  I Really love this game and i feel like A Godfather, I almost cried when the game ended... so sad....
 
  
  But I love to play it again and again and again, and when the game is completed it's fun just to 
 drive around in the big city.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GlobalHazard
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 7, 2006 3:31 am PT
Review:  This game is one of those classic everyone should have. The devolopers did wonders on it. There 
 are some games made now that are not to far from where this game has come from with graphics. The 
 gameplay is superb, the cars are amazing, ever wonder what it be like to drive in those old days.... 
 well this gives you a taste of that and more, from the people, to the whole concept. There are 
 many things in the game to love, the story makes you feel like you are in an old cult maifia movie. 
 The feel is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DevlinC
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 6, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  At the time of it's release, Mafia was praised through the roof, considered one of the greatest 
 games of the year, and some would say one of the greatest of all time.
  
  4 years later on, and Mafia hasn't stood the test of time. Whilst Grand Theft Auto was it's obvious 
 influence, it retained none of that games open-ended gameplay except in a secondary mode called 
 Free Play - a highly pointless feature which allows you to drive around in small sections of the 
 game world, at various times of the day (because yes, day and night don't run into each other in 
 this game - another big mistake) . Lets be honest, no one is actually going to leave the story mode 
 mid-mission just to drive around pointlessly. Only once you had completed the game did you get 
 a more GTA-like experience in Free Play Extreme, with side missions to complete amongst the experience 
 of just passing time in the city, but completing this game will take up a large portion of your 
 time, and I'm not convinced I'll even manage that this time round, due to my other complaints.
 
  
  The story mode itself isn't the experience that it used to be. Controls are sluggish, both on foot 
 and in cars, the fist-fighting is awful.. even the gunfights are more a question of luck than ability. 
 Whilst graphically it is appealing, technology hadn't yet come to a point that faces could express 
 emotion, so you often have movie-like closeups trying to express all their emotion through the 
 voice recordings, and failing. Draw distance is appauling, even on its highest setting (running 
 through a powerful computer, I might add) . I just found myself getting bored whilst playing it.
 
  
  Maybe this has something to do with having played it before - Mafia is a very story-driven work 
 and once you've gotten through it once, half the enjoyment is gone because you know what's going 
 to happen. However, this was not a problem for any of the more recent GTA games, all of which I've 
 played and completed at least twice, because their gameplay was so much more addictive, unique 
 and rewarding. In Mafia, essentially all of your missions will involve you starting out at Salieri's, 
 going through an unskippable scene where the mechanic teaches you how to steal yet another kind 
 of car (even though it's always just hold down the action button) , picking up a weapon, and driving 
 to your destination. Once there, you'll have to either beat up or shoot a few people, then probably 
 chase someone in a car whose controlling system may be accurate to cars at the time, but is just 
 irritatingly slow and unmanouverable in practice. Losing because the game doesn't respond quickly 
 enough doesn't feel good, losing when the odds are against you is. There's a difference.
  
  It's a lot easier to be negative, but I should say that the story is excellent and the voice acting 
 is superb. The music nails the "1930s American Gangster Film" feel perfectly, and the first time 
 through I was hooked. But when there's other games of a similar nature out there that do the job 
 better, especially with a Godfather game on its way, Mafia has very few reasons to be played again. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrfidget
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 5, 2006 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Mafia is the greatest gangster game ever. The city of Lost Heaven is so explorable and fun to drive 
 around in! The single player campaign has fantastic missions to do over and over again. What I 
 enjoyed doing was "FreeRide Extreme." It is where you drive around Lost Heaven without cops and 
 do whatever the heck you want. There are mini missions you can do in FreeRide Extreme, like chasing 
 an (almost) invisible person to his hideout, finding a cool car to park in your garage. It also 
 comes with one big ramp to assist you in quickly going over the river. Anyone who has a Pc should 
 buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FranKrig
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2006 7:33 am PT
Review:  Mafia is the game that come closest to perfect if you want to play the main character in a movie.
 
  It's real cinematic. Okay so real that the computer's can make it now a day. 
  I wont talk about the story line or the game as such that's dun enough. I just want to say that 
 I never seen any other game producer's making a game that comes closer to cinematic other that 
 the guy's whom made Mafia "Some time's you simply just forget that it's only a game your playing" 
 and that only happened to me by playing MAFIA and I played over 500 games. HO sorry Mafia is not 
 the only game!! that's not all trough, there's a other game producer who also gut it, The maker 
 of "The chronicle of Riddick - escape from butcher bay" and one of them his name is Vin Diesel 
 hem self, he and the guy's from Sweden making the Riddick game, they do also know what there doing 
 no doubt.
  
  But else there's a long - long way down to the nest levels. Here we do for example find Max pain 
 1 and 2 Call of duty among quid some titles. Don't take me rung here that's also really fantastic 
 games and they are really smashing GRATE games too I think, but still it's' another level It's 
 just games.
  Mafia and Riddick Is beyond normal level's it seams. Ore how can I say; hopefully it's the next 
 -- THE new level ! !.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mac631
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 21, 2006 8:31 pm PT
Review:  After i played Mafia and feel that Mafia better than GTA San Andreas a lot and a lot. At least 
 Mafia does not contain fxxk this word. Mafia also has a strong story like Max Payne 2. Mafia can 
 be a very hard game but since I got a guide from Gamespot, i found the game becomes a lot easier 
 and funnier. Mafia's graphics is very good but can be better and the sound is almost prefect. For 
 those playing GTA, give Mafia a try, it never dissappointed you since it is born on 2002. and for 
 those like Mafia, check out the Max Payne 2 which is also a superb game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatboyvinnie
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2006 3:29 am PT
Review:  Story: You are Thomas Angelo, a Taxi driver that gets forced to join the mafia when two mobsters 
 get in your taxi and force you to get them back to their families base and away from the rival 
 family. The rival family then goes and destroys your cab, so then you go to the two mobsters base 
 and join their family ruled under Don Salieri
  
  Graphics: Pros-Models still look fantastic today, environments are large and great to look at, weapons 
 look stunning
  Cons-NPC models can look a bit blocky at times
  
  Sound: Pros-Phenomenal jazz soundtrack (and i dont even like jazz) , weapon sounds are great, most 
 voice acting is solid
  Cons-Some of the voice acting tends to sound a bit forced
  
  Game Play: Pros-Gun play is extremely tense and great fun in both small and huge battles, AI is pretty 
 solid, Cars feel just like 1930's cars, stealth mission is good too
  Cons-Team mates AI can be a bit stupid at times (run into a row of enemy mobsters for example) , cars 
 can be a bit too slow to begin with
  
  Replay Value-The main game along with the side missions should take people at least 20 hours to 
 complete, then you unlock a mode called Free ride Extreme, where you do 20 funny and crazy bonus 
 missions and you get to unlock more cool cars so that adds another 5-10 hours of value
  
  Overall-Its a stunning game with few flaws but if a GTA clone was ever considered to be better 
 than GTA itself it would be Mafia 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyshinigami
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 19, 2006 9:57 am PT
Review:  The storyline is the major point of the game. It feels like your playing a game and watching a classic 
 film at the same time. This game doesnt focus completely on violence like GTA but it also have some 
 nice moral values.
  Its also more real than GTA. When a car got shot, it'll leaves bullet holes. When you're speeding 
 above the speed limit, cops will chase you if they saw you. You also wont get chased by cops if there's 
 no cops at the place where you commit crimes. Evenmore, cops wont be magically spawned in front of 
 you when you hide from them. You also will get hurt if you drive crazily like in GTA. This'll make 
 you try to drive better and be a nice driver (not rly coz Im still speeding XD)
  The whole game was great, poorly I got a glitch in the mission where I have to use the sniper. The 
 scope view became solid blue making me cant see anything.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAngelox
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 13, 2006 5:47 am PT
Review:  Mafia
  
  Like my previous review Ill be going through Gamespots points of attention again.
  This is 
 a fairly old game but in my opinion it looks very good. It is one of my favourite games hence my 
 nickname. In Mafia you play Thomas Angelo a cabdriver who is forced to drive 2 gangsters being 
 chased to their hideout. The first mission might be tricky if they shoot your tires or your fuel 
 tank, which will then begin to lose fuel of course youll also lose fuel as you drive but not quite 
 as fast. This is a very nice detail they added, although it can be annoying in some missions. When 
 you bring the gangsters Paulie and Sam to their hideout (Salieri bar) they will offer you to become 
 one of them, but you do not like the gangster life, youre content with being a simple cab driver. 
 But a day later the gangsters chasing the 2 you rescued will smash up your cab when youre having 
 a coffee break, theyll also try to kill you. Lucky as you are youre close to Salieris bar. Its 
 your only chance of survival. Then your life as a gangster begins
  
  Gameplay. 
  The gameplay in this game, might be a little tricky at first, especially if you are, like me, used 
 to fairly easy GTA-handling the driving may surprise you. Every car has it own type of handling 
 no car drives the same. I found it quite hard to control my car at first but as it turned out the 
 Taxi is, in my opinion, the worst handling car in the game. As you progress through the mission 
 you will also unlock more parts of the city that will become available in free ride. A mode where 
 you can driver around earning money to, either repair your car, heal yourself, or save the game. 
 Free ride is a great way of exploring the city and I never found it boring. When you complete the 
 game you will unlock Free ride extreme a refreshing mode of free ride, in this mode you can do 
 mission to unlock special cars, like the manta (which looks a lot like the bat mobile.) What I 
 did find a bit disappointing in the game was not being able to visit the locations youve been 
 to in the missions, for example if youve been in a hotel in the mission you couldnt enter it 
 in free ride. Sometimes the 3rd person perspective was a bit annoying for combat. Also the game 
 uses save points instead of manual saving, in some ways it is very nice so you have to do things 
 again, not saving every minute but fully enjoying the tension, but when youre in a hard mission 
 and have just beaten a hard part and die, it can be quite frustrating to do everything again. I 
 think they should have entered a few more save points. Hereby I give Mafias gameplay a 9.
  
  Graphics.
  The time Im writing this review the graphics may not be so stunning anymore, 
 but in when Mafia was released the graphics were amazing, I still find it a beautiful game. In 
 the cut scenes peoples eyes will also move and Salieris cigars smoke will slowly ascend and 
 vanish in the air. The way smoking is animated is very well done. Also the ability to smash up 
 a car as much as you can creating dents and scratches is very original and of course amusing. When 
 in GTA you can only have 1 type of dent and then the part of the car will fall of, you can, in 
 Mafia, deform a car as much as you like, or to your disliking because in some missions you will 
 have to deliver a car without a scratch. I give Mafias graphics an 8. Not a 9 or a 10 because 
 of some things that arent done quite well, when the models of the main characters looks brilliant 
 in the cut scenes the normal people will look a bit neglected not seeming the same as the characters, 
 they will have fixed eyes looking a bit dull in combination with the highly detailed other people. 
 Also Angelo will look great in the cut scene but in-game his head looks a bit bulky. So an 8 for 
 Mafia.
  
  Sound.
  Mafias sound is also great, like in GTA people will also talk on the streets. And the voice acting 
 has been done brilliantly. Every voice suits their character very well. Also you will hear real 
 30s (at least I think it is 30s) music on the street, however after a few times you may be very 
 annoyed with the music and you can choose to turn to off enjoying the simmering of the engines 
 of the old cars, the squeaking of tires and the occasional bird songs. I give Mafias sound a 10.
 
  
  Value.
  This game is really worth every pound/dollar/euro you put into it. Its probably very cheap now 
 because I saw it in stores for only 10 euros. Definitely worth the price. In theory Mafia offers 
 unlimited playtime but of course you will sometimes get bored of free ride. If you see this game: 
 BUY IT!
  
  Tilt.
  As you probably and hopefully noticed by reading this review I love this game, but as I said with 
 Oblivion as well, you just have to experience it yourself. I can assure you the story in the game 
 is great, youre not only playing because its nice to drive around cars and kill gangsters youll 
 also want to know how the story continues. If Mafia werent a game it could as well be a movie. 
 Therefore I give Mafias Tilt a 10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ASHISH1777
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 12, 2006 12:43 am PT
Review:  When i first started to play mafia i was amazed how big and immersive the city was. It was bigger 
 than gta3 city. The charcters are the highlight of this game after a while you feel that all the 
 characters are part of the family. The intro music is superb. Shooting mechanism of this game is 
 much much better than gta3. There are some glitches here and there but not too much. Graphics are 
 good but not best but there is a mod which significantly improves graphics. This game has very emotional 
 ending. In the end this game was way ahed of its time and is a must must buy for anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iasfdglai
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 10, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  I'd hate to compare this game to GTA but they have the same basic styles. It just shocks me that 
 GTA is so much more respected of a game because Mafia actually has gameplay that takes some talent.
 
  
  Gameplay - Just right, not too difficult but during gunbattles you actually had to hide and pop 
 out to kill things making it feel like you were seriously in the Mafia. Definately where the game 
 shined for me. The car driving was iffy but it was enjoyable obeying the laws to keep the cops 
 off you and then going and assassinating someone. Really makes you feel like your there.
  
  Graphics - I played this game about 4 months after the release and the graphics were amoung the 
 best I had seen since then. Very enjoyable to look at.
  
  Sound - Voice acting was top-notch and the soundtrack was just right.. again making you feel as 
 if you were in the old Mob days. One complaint was the annoying sound of the unimportant people 
 you came close to run over. Not a big deal though.
  
  Value - worth every penny, played thru it 2 times and writign this review makes me want to play 
 it again.
  
  Tilt - I'll base the tilt on the story which is awesome. From the beginging to start you will be 
 drawn in and will not want to stop. Spectacular.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mirteoda
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 4, 2006 5:24 am PT
Review:  The first thing you tend to do is compare this game to GTA III , but this comparison is absolutely 
 wrong. First of all, the storyline is much better and much deeper in Mafia. The characters are 
 very complex, and they get involved in the story. The main character is an outsider in the beginning, 
 and as you progress he becomes to be noticed and respected ( he even changes hes clothes as he 
 becomes more respected : -) ) The graphics are very good even now in 2006. Each aspect of the game 
 is very complex (the police for example) . I recommend this game to everybody that wants a great 
 action game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Djredman123
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 2, 2006 6:47 am PT
Review:  i'm just gonna review what i think so far. The story is pretty nice, it seems to much like goodfellas 
 though, (irish guy, the name paulie, etc.) but it's cool because u can access alot of interiors, 
 the graphics are solid, but i think there overrated. especially on my pc. some places have really 
 nice textures, other's u can barely read the signs, like "salieris bar", is blurred out. u can 
 drive manually or auto , which is a nice feature. overall SO FAR this game is good, u have a lot 
 of commands, like u can get in the backseat of a car, and so on. i'm just gonna tell 2 things that 
 bugs me so far. I feel a little restricted, there is a bunch of area between places that u can't 
 walk on just view, so it doesn't have the same open ended gameplay as san andreas, but this was 
 made in 2002... the camera is frustrating, i would prefer a full 3d wrap around camera but it's 
 still ok. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grope2
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2006 12:19 am PT
Review:  ok... first off this game is amazing. From the biginning you know this is going to be a game anyone 
 can enjoy, the beginning cinematics set the scene and opens up the whole game... this would proberly 
 appeal to those who hate GTA more than it would appeal to those who like it simply because it's 
 very controlled, in GTA you can end up just wondering around for hours and you really dont have 
 to complete it and you get bored before you do complete however with this you have to complete 
 the missions to unlock new selections in free ride which is the GTA mode basically and you can 
 do anything you want, but you have to unlock new parts of the city and new cars to fulfill the 
 experiance and then if you get bored of the that when you've done all the missions there is a mode 
 called free ride extreme... now this was fun, the develpers have just messed around and given you 
 a free side dish, they have given you wacky driving challenges in order to unlock newer and faster 
 or slower but sturdier (or just plain funny) vehicles. These game is garenteed to bring you hours 
 of fun. The missions themselves are proberly the most enjoysable simply because in most games you 
 can only do things a certain way, in this your free to complete the mission in any way you like, 
 you could decide, for example, to run everyone down in you new car. if you want a new game with 
 more fun than any other buy this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 900919
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 23, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  This game was an amazing experience from the first chase scene to the last action pact heart wrenching 
 level. The only games I have ever seen that have had stories as great as Mafia's are the games 
 in the MGS series. Seriously, this game has an AMAZING story. It raises philosophical questions 
 and in the end, will make you wonder if Tommy really made the right decisions. The gameplay is 
 outstanding. Every fight is amazing and plays out differently each time. The enemies have a limited 
 amount of ammo (something I'm surprised you don't see in other games) which can add a lot of strategy 
 to the fights. One thing worth noting though, the fights in this game are really difficult if you 
 don't think things through, so this will require you to play many levels several times through 
 to win. The driving sequences where the player must drive from one point to the next do get old 
 towards the end but that is a minor complaint. The graphics look great for their time and still 
 look pretty darn good when compared to some of todays console games (excluding the Xbox 360) . 
 The cutscenes are all very well made and just downright impressive. In the end, if you like games 
 with great stories or great action sequences and don't mind replaying some of the tougher levels 
 a few times, Mafia is an experience that you just cannot miss, and a game that you will remember 
 for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeiterStar58
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  this game may be a GTA clone, but remember, clones can come and kill the original. this is what 
 i was hoping would happen with mafia. This game is so cool, so awesome, you can't not love it.
 
  
  Realisim: to get ammo, you need to get other guns, guns can blow things up very well. lots of blood 
 with excellent hit detection. having to learn how to pick the locks of all the cars in the city 
 instead of every car open and with the keys in the ignition (GTA) . this game fills out the mission 
 mode with lots of missions that can be completed in many ways, and a awesome story of you turning 
 on your mafiosa gangsters for turning on you. Free ride is fun for a while just going and killing 
 people and doing odd jobs and all that fun stuff. this is not a game for those who get angry easy 
 though, this can and will become difficult with numerous driving sequences and the totally gay 
 racing mission, OMFG, it was impossible!!
  
  other than that, you'll love this game no matter who you are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sardan-Ti
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 20, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  The story grabs you from the start and then you don't let go. Often you don't have to go straight 
 to the mission, you can explore a while. 
  
  There are large number of cars aswell and plenty of driving with the option to hijack and steal 
 cars. Later in the game there are lots of mini missions where you can get new supercars and these 
 are all simple fun on the side jobs.
  
  The main levels arer challenging and always open up more of the of the plot. A great level that 
 combines these two elements is just after the level where you blow up a hotel. You go down into 
 a church and peer through the back door, it's the funeral of rapist you killed a few levels back. 
 Unfortunately for you that guy's dad was an important politician with ties with a rival mafia gang.
 
  A gunfight insues, followed by a slightly philosphical talk about mafia life with the priest, 
 then you steal a herse and flee from the police. Great fun.
  The only down side to the game is that there is a racing level only on which is very difficult, 
 if you keep going and complete it then the game gets even better.
  
  I highly recommend this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rome_212
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 20, 2006 5:36 am PT
Review:  This is a very nice game!!!!!!!!! It's a modified version of GTA, and in the early years!!!!!!! 
 What a great era!!!!!! The cars and everything!!!!!! 
  
  The gameplay is just plain great!!!!!! Too bad the cops will come after you if you go faster than 
 the speed limit, but who cares? I just plain love this game!!!!!!! It's challenging too. 
  
  The graphics are excellent for the PC!!!!!!! On the PS2, they're not good. Only for the PC 
 the graphics are great. Excellent graphical presentation!!!!!!!!!
  
  I don't have anything more to say about this game, but if you have a PC, then you MUST have this 
 game in your collection of PC games!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeMoraledGamer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 16, 2006 10:03 pm PT
Review:  mafia, quite possibly a gta rip off. nope. mafia is totally a game of its own. you play as a character 
 who joins the mafia and does things mafia guys do, business. this game has a great story which 
 caught me in its web. the look and feel of the game was good as well. i also have to say this was 
 more realistic than gta. you can actually get a ticket from the cops if you speed or cross a red 
 light. amazing. unlike gta you can't just run and gun. in mafia its more about using cover to defeat 
 the enemy. so, mafia in the end is a well planned out game in which will appease many more gamers 
 to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cryu_stelist
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2006 6:19 am PT
Review:  The best game ever.. Game of the year in 2002 2003 .if the manufactures make the second part of 
 the game would have game of the year 2006 and 2007. MAFIA IS THE BEST EVER PC GAME My note 10 without 
 doubt. When i finished i received a lesson of live. this game teach you somenthing no like others 
 game .I want MAFIA 2 I altmos cry when i finished .MAFIA mafia mafia mafia mafia mafia mafia mafia 
 mafia mafia mafia mafia mafia mafia mafia mafia mafia mafia mafia mafia mafia mafia mafia mafia 
 mafia mafia mafia mafia mafia mafia mafia mafia mafia mafia mafia mafia mafia mafia mafia 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silvercineplex
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 14, 2006 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Mafia is overall a pretty great game. You are a taxi driver. One night a bunch of mobsters need 
 a quick getaway and you happen to be nearby. You help them escape and the mobsters tanks you for 
 the help and offers you a job. From there you are immersed into the mob world.
  
  The gameplay is very realistc. If you are speeding then the cops will give you a ticket. Of course 
 you can run away, but then you'll be arrested. If you resist arrest (you really don't have a choice. 
 If you get arrested, you'll lost the mission) , you'll become wanted. The cars are crap because 
 the game is in the old days. So the cars won't be going really fast anytime soon. Some are so slow 
 that if you don't get enough momentum, you won't be able to go up a steep hill. The only problem 
 is the fighting/killing in the game. It really is unsmooth. You sometimes are able to shoot through 
 walls. When some enimies shoot and you're hiding behind a wall, they will shoot in a direction 
 where you aren't even at. They hardly ever move around when the shoot. They really will only be 
 in two positions, behind some sort of cover or out in the open. I'm still not sure about headshots, 
 but i've tried them and it seems like they don't work. I'm giving the game a benifit of a doubt 
 that I wasn't aiming correctly, but I still don't know.
  
  The game is also kind of hard. Especially with the shoot out mission becuase of the fact that they 
 sometimes tie into a few shoot out missions in a row. Since you don't replenish health after each 
 mission (except when the mission ends at Salieri's Bar) and the lack of health kits, it is very 
 hard to survive.
  
  The cinematics are great and the story line is even better. The music is just as good. It looks 
 like the developers but quite some time into these things.
  
  Overall the game is pretty good, but it does have a few flaws. Nevertheless it is still a worthwhile 
 purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KlawHammer
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 14, 2006 7:04 am PT
Review:  Beautifully executed 1930s Mob game, and it's done in style...
  Mafia puts you in the shoes of a former taxi-driver who stumbles upon a gang-shootup one night. 
 Caught in the middle of the action, he ends up having to take the drivers seat and help the mobsters 
 get away... so begins his ascension into gangsterism...
  
  Graphics:
  Awesome, very detailed and vibrant, plenty nifty effects. However, only the main characters in 
 the game are modelled with detail, everyone else on the street is rather low-poly and bland-looking. 
 Another thing noticed is that the roads are rather ugly, and suffer from severe draw distance issues.
 
  
  Sound:
  The cars sound like they should even to the point of hearing the gear-changes, guns sound very 
 meaty, the star of the show is the soundtrack , pure 1930s style jazz and fits in with the game 
 so well.
  
  Gameplay:
  This game has you running around 14sq/m of a city gunning down mobsters, jacking cars, "disposing" 
 of certain people - you name, its done in here. You can even get into a taxi in certain modes and 
 earn money that way.
  There are real-time traffic signals, even road-rules... the police will give chase for offences 
 such as speeding, running people over, driving recklessly and even walking with your gun out in 
 public. 
  
  The game includes alot of other modes, a mode where you unlock outrageous versions of cars, even 
 a museum-type mode where you can look at specs, etc,. all 150-odd vehicles in the game.
  
  This game does alot of things right, and is completely freeform (think GTA) .. with sharp graphics, 
 sound and gameplay. Despite a few minor graphical issues, this game is definately a must-have! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alenfishman
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 7, 2006 9:01 am PT
Review:  This was a great and fun game, really hard and addictive. I got really sick of the grand theft 
 autos and there ultra strong player. In mafia if you get shot by a gun, you get hurt just as much 
 as they do. One shot gun hit and your dead. This is a vary realistic game that really made you 
 work for it. a couple things I really want to trow out there that I liked.
  
  - The shooting was hard and fun the recoil made the game more interesting and needed to be practiced.
 
  - Accidents actually hurt your character. You cant smash into a wall going full speed and not 
 even be hurt. You would lose half if not more of your life.
  - The AI for the most part was pretty smart and they dont let off of you and they are pretty persistent. 
 
  - I liked how you couldnt speed past a cop and he would just ignore you, you had to follow the 
 rules of the road perfectly or you would get screwed.
  - I liked how if you just speed you get a speeding ticket and you just get back to the game, they 
 dont kill you because you where speeding, or just for a fender bender.
  - The city was huge, really huge and there where a lot of places to go and the country side was 
 unbelievably huge.
  
  All in all this is a good game for you fans of GTA games this is a good one, It just puts a lot 
 more realism into the factor. The story line is 2 thumbs up in my book and it just gets better 
 and better, the end of the game was everything I hoped it would be and it just gives me chills 
 remember how great the game ended and how awesome everything was about this game this game was 
 a 10 my only concern is that id like to see another one come out. But they pretty much did it all 
 in this game. All well ill never forget this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1337pwnage
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 6, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Mafia is quite old now but that if you haven't played throughout the entire game, then you've been 
 missing out. The story motivates you to continue with the missions. This tale of 1930's Chicago-style 
 gang business will defintely grab you into Mafia and hold on to you until the end.
  
  The gameplay is pretty fun. It's essentially a 3rd person shooter/action game. However, about half 
 of the game is driving, and the driving controls are quite frustrating. That is the realism of 
 the game in that you drive 30's vehicles so you can't really blame the game for the car control. 
 When you do get to the shooting parts, they are very difficult. All the missions are scripted and 
 pretty fun but also tedious. The action sequences fit great with the plot though, so you'll be 
 motivated to beat the missions.
  
  This game runs well on a wide range of systems. I played it on an old MX4000 video card and it 
 ran perfectly and still looked great. Graphics were high quality back then, but still look nice 
 by today's standards. The character design is the greatest feature of the visuals and they really 
 breathe life into these characters that you become connected to.
  
  The nice 30's style music played in the background is amazing and really create a great atmosphere 
 like no other, and the opening main theme for this game is by far, one of the best orchestral scores 
 I've ever heard. Firing, car, and environment sound effects are good, but most of all, the voice 
 acting is astonishing. Every character in this game has entertaining lines and great quality of 
 voice acting.
  
  You can pick up this game for no more than 10 bucks, so if you get lucky and find one, do yourself 
 a favor and buy it. With a story as gripping as Mafia has, you can't do any better with that 10 
 bucks.
  
  Overall, Mafia is about the story, characters, and atmosphere of the gang business of Chicago in 
 the 1930's. Gameplay is not a driving force in this game but it is good at times. The plot of Mafia 
 will immerse you in the first hour or 2 and will become even deeper towards the end. If you haven't 
 finished it, then go finish it, if you haven't tried it yet, give it a shot and you won't regret 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tinkertown
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 5, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  This instant classic offers you the role of Tommy Angelo. The once cab driver who finds him self 
 brought in by the mob. Take part in some exciting gun battles and quite annoying races. Collect 
 and arsenal of weapons and get geared up for the ultimate job! Baseball bats, knuckledusters, handguns, 
 revolvers, machine guns (the infamous Mafia trademark Tommy gun) and a cast of overs. See what 
 its like to be in the gritty inspiring world of the mafia. THe storyline is typical but effective 
 tracing many ideas from the Godfather and other mafia films. Raid airfields and bars, rob banks 
 and kill over mod members to rise up in the family. There is a free roam that allows you to travel 
 the city at your own pace. Earn you own spots of cash by killing gangsters in the street, and buy 
 weapons and local buildings. I suggest you use the map for the freeroam as it locates useful building 
 (Circled areas)
  Twister: Weapon shop (just wanted you to know)
  
  Overall an excellent crime shooter! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firozecool
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 5, 2006 12:50 am PT
Review:  Mafia!!! Yes Mafia!! A fantastic game!! No Doubt! Rated high by critics all over the world! Received 
 dozens of awards! And does Mafia deserve all that? You bet the game does!!! 
  
  Mafia is a game set in the 1930's of the seedy underworld. Tommy Angelo is a polite but confident 
 person living in this world. Tommy is the main character in this game. Tommy himself is satisfied 
 with his current condition. Everything was well. No problems, no troubles, absolutely nothing! 
 A simple man's journey was Tommy's journey. 
  
  But fate had something different in store for this Taxi driver! 
  
  One evening Tommy saves 
 a few gangsters from being murdered by the opposite gang. The fortunate gangmen reward Tommy and 
 also invite him in their gang. But Tommy preferred the life of simplicity without any complications. 
 And so goes the story!
  
  One day Tommy HAD to join the Salieri Gang (the gang whose members Tommy had saved. The gang's head 
 was a person named Mr. Salieri and hence the name Salieri Gang) under very peculiar circumstances. 
 Fate! Yes Fate had interfered in his life. 
  
  And so within a short time Tommy becomes one of the top members of the gang! He leads out many 
 a missions for his boss with unbelievable accuracy!! 
  
  Although the game was made in 1999 it has great graphics! Even today many games can't offer accurate 
 lip syncing which this game has easily done! 
  
  This game is one of the best games I've ever come across! Till today whoever has played this game 
 has never forgotten this game! This is its value!!
  
  Go On! Take Yourself For A Ride in The 1930's!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chuiv
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 3, 2006 10:47 pm PT
Review:  this is mostly like a grand theif auto game but in the old days. The game has different missions 
 and mostly there al fun, nice guns to use, very realistic, a big city to check out, a great story 
 line, and some funny secrets to unlock.
  you can be stuck in parts in the missions. Some missions can be very hard and long, and can be 
 boring in times. The loading times can be long and obeying the law can be annoying at times (speed 
 limit) .
  Missions have a lot of people you will need to kill and some parts of missions can be unrealistic. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragosh495
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 6, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  I start be telling u not to describe or tell what the game its about! We ALL konw that, just say 
 your opinion!!
  
  No one can say anything bad about this game!!!! NO ONE !!!
  
  i mean, the story is the best i have ever heard and seen, it compares itself with a book, with 
 the Godfather movies, Godfellas, and Casino!
  
  you dont know how happy i am, that on may 2006 the game its still remembered!!! and it should! 
 IT'S THE BEST GAME EVER MADE !!!
  
  after i bought it, i installed it and didnt stop paying to the end!
  the race car mission took 
 the longest: 3 beautiful hours :) ) ) but now i can finish it, from the first time! 
  
  the story, the graphics, the soundtrack (jazz becamed my favourite genre) , the characters!!!!!! 
 all are INCREDIBLE !! DONT FORGET 2002-2003 times
  
  someone told that the cars arent made or are hard to drive!!! hes an idiot !!!
  
  what the 
 hell happened to the cars in godfather, i was negatively amazed, and cursed all the eay to the 
 finish of the game (godfather)
  
  the cutscenes are fantastic, the chechs that made this shouldnt stop being congratulated! in this 
 review excuse my english please! :) ) )
  
  theres no way, no how, to speak about mafia and not sying that its your favourite game! that is 
 if you finished it!
  
  the end cutscene its tha one that made me cry, really!!!!!!!!!
  i finished the game 20+ times nad still paying it, (my record is about 6 1/2 hours) the most obsessive 
 man ever paying mafia, so? :) ) ) ) ) ) )
  
  THERE ARE NO WORDS TO DESCRIBE THE FEELING, THE TENTION!!!
  
  i couldnt stop shaking, like 
 so many who loves this game!
  
  MAFIA HAS NO COMPETITORS IN THE GENRE, THAT SHOULD BE CLEAR!
  NO DISRESPECT TO GTA FANS, I LOVE 
 GTA AS WELL, BUT C'MON!!!!!
  that game is directed tot other kind of people!
  
  i leave you, with the hope that you agree with me, and ...
  DO NOT LET MAFIA TO BE FORGOTTEN 
 !!!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nahidofhonor
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 29, 2006 3:50 am PT
Review:  After I player GTA 3 i wasnt interested at all about playing Mafia.
  My freind told me its different. play it or u r going to miss something.
  After I played Mafia, 
 I was totally ...... (hard to describe)
  surely now i like Mafia more than my freind likes it.
  
  I dont know what technology they used, 
 I found graphics much more different than other 3d games. And its more realistic.
  
  As i said earlier this is better than a movie. ya thats for its story.
  I played many games after 
 Mafia. still i havnt found any good game to compare with Mafia.
  
  I love this game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: carotiernita
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 24, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  The first time you play this game you realize that is not a common game. For the release date and 
 for the requirements, apart from being a game that was not made with a higly amount of money. The 
 story is awesome. You only want to have more of it. It's a pitty that the game is too short when 
 you are addictive to it. The cars are full of reality. All the cars you drive are real each one with 
 it's specifics cualities. The weapons are not bat at all. But the gameplay deserves the best. The 
 project is ambitious. The city is much better than any Grand Theft Auto game. The people, the police, the 
 gangters. All of it. The Godfather is better than this one. But Illusion hadn't the money that EA 
 has. If you try it, You bought it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neerajkumar_4
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 4, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  Mafia:- 
  
  By,
  Scorpio_gamer a. k. a Neerajkumar_4
  
  Introduction:-
  
  Its another GTA kinda game but not same! Its just similar!! The game has a truly amazing story. 
 The game is realistic. The missions are interesting. The story is about a taxi driver who is in 
 a help or die situation; he helps the gangsters of Don Saleri. In return the gangsters of another 
 DON Morello are behind him, so he joins the Don Saleris gang for his safety and helps him in his 
 job. The story goes on with lots of surprises and Twist and Turns.
  
  Game-Play:- 
  
  Cops fine you for breaking the rules and rash driving might coz you death or you might be jailed 
 and if the cops find you hurting some one or with a weapon, youll be behind the bars. You have 
 to re-fuel your vehicle if its empty then you have to lock pick cars to steal them and you can 
 travel through trams and trains too!! The Free-Ride stuff is also fun. X-treme Free ride unlocks 
 after you finish the game that is also fun to play.
  
  Graphics:- 
  
  Its a 2002 game with pretty gud graphics. The character models are jus great but the billing stuff 
 and lock-picking stuff are crappy as jus you cant see the bills and the lock picking tools at all. 
 
  
  Sound:- 
  
  Sound is superb! The voice acting is flawless! The back ground sound is very good. 
  
  Conclusion:-
 
  
  The game is tough but challenging. The realistic factor can be annoying at times. The Auto-Saving 
 feature is very cool. I meant that is very systemized. I hope they make a movie out of it! :) Youll 
 surely enjoy the game! 
  
  Graphics - 9/10
  
  Sound- 8/10
  
  Gameplay- 8/10
  
  Story-Line- 10/10
  
  Overall- 9/10
  
  
 
  Scorpio_gamer:- Remember there is NO such thing as GAME OVER!!
  So keep GAMING.!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noxsiem
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 13, 2006 9:17 am PT
Review:  The reason I decided to review Mafia at this time, is because the recent release of The Godfather., 
 reminded me a lot of Mafia. Firstly, Mafia was released "4 years ago" in 2002. With that said, 
 the its graphics are absolutely astounding, even by today's standard. With the use of stellar facial 
 expressions and realistic textures at the time, Mafia levels with today's top third-person action 
 genre of titles. The models are well constructed, and their animations are polished. The voice 
 acting is superb, while its masterful orchestra immerses the player in its 1933 mob-like setting. 
 Although the game's pace is considered "slow" by today's standard, its smooth game play still complements 
 its intriguing storyline. Overall Mafia exemplifies sheer dedication and passion of its developers. 
 It is truly a masterpiece, and a "must have" for a true gamer's collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themubashir
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 11, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  Mafia is set in the 1930s when organized Crime was at its top peak. This is game is Beautiful in 
 all its aspect.
  
  STORY - The story is told through a series of Flashbacks. Thomas "Tommy" Angelo, the protaganist 
 of Mafia is a normal Taxi driver who after a casual meeting with Don Salieri becomes one of his 
 men. He executes work for the Family and gradually moves up in rank. What lies ahead in Mafia's story 
 is all about how things get messy for the Family. Mafia is all about 
 
  It has an extremely rich storyline and is quite emotional. It surely leaves an impact on us.
  
  GAMEPLAY - The gameplay has quite a variety in it. The jobs range from Highly intense Car chases 
 , Stealthy actions , Racing , Bank Robberies , Bar Shoot-outs , and almost anything u can imagine.
 
  You can shoot while sitting in your car thus making the chases all the more exciting.
  It is also quite realistic compared to GTA titles. Police would book players for minor offenses 
 such as speeding or running a red light, and car accidents caused physical harm to the driver. You 
 can also not hijack any car unless you know how to open it.
  The City is quite large enough to explore but you need not worry as this is NOT GODFATHER (thankfully) . You 
 have around 60 vintage vehicles and public transport to help you.
  There is one thing which limits the gameplay that is you cannot just do stuff your own way like 
 in GTA. For that you have a Free-Ride options in the Main Menu of the Game. There is also a Free-Ride 
 Extreme option which unlocks when you finish the main Game. This has around 20 missions and offers 
 variety in tasks. Overall the Gameplay of Mafia is quite realistic and is enjoyable.
  
  GRAPHICS - The Graphics of Mafia are just awesome considering the game came out in 2002. Everything 
 looks realistic and it creates the 1930s era beautifully. There are environments such as a Ship, 
 Hotel, Restaurants , Racing tracks etc they look so fantastic you'll wish you were there. Also the 
 game has excellent weather effects and physique. The plus point is that it even runs on a low - 
 end PC smoothly.
  
  SOUND - Sound in Mafia is as good as it gets. The Theme song is excellent and the voice acting is 
 almost perfect. Mafia scores full markes in the Sound department and proves why it got the Best 
 Music Award in 2002.
  
  THE GOOD - Extremely rich storyline with well written characters, Visually stunning, Music & Sound, 
 Realistic.
  
  THE BAD - Can get on your nerves at times (especially that RACE) , a bit too realistic, ummm. (I m 
 thinking) ... well nothing else.
  
  Mafia is a Game which you can call a "Genuine Masterpiece". It is one of the Best things ever to 
 happen to a PC. It is one of the most accompolished games ever made.
  A game which will surely leave a Deep Impact on you. It shouldnt be missed at any cost.
  HOPING 
 that GATHERING DEVELOPERS come up soon with another MASTERPIECE.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vampiro_HuntT3R
Rating: 8
Date: May 5, 2006 7:07 am PT
Review:  The game is good because player can drive cars and beat the sh! t out of people and much more. All 
 that is amazing, The Story line is Superb, I like the mission "Lucky Bastard". It was amazing. 
 Graphix were okay, sound was good. But when a player is shooting at enemy, he doesnt die easily 
 and I think that is a glitch or whateva it is , Its not good. while shooting him at face, he doesnt 
 die so I think thats a big Glitch, lol...
  The game story is Amazing, It really shows the life of a Gangster, Tom was a great Character, Sarah 
 as well. It was a good experience to play a game like GTA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anas_619
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 3, 2006 6:52 am PT
Review:  mafia is an amazing game though at times a bit frustrating because its hard. but definetly worh 
 ur money!! the racing mission is very hard to win but it becomes easy when u se the cheat codes, a 
 game worth  its a little big but just enougj to 
 make u hav a gr8 time.......... if u havent plaed this one then get uo, grab ur money, get out and 
 dont come back until u hav buied one of this masterpiece which definetly worth playin!!
  all in all the game will make absorb u into itz world and make u get on the tips of ur seats!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badshah
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 3, 2006 6:29 am PT
Review:  This is a great game......... Really one of the best games of the year................. It is great 
 .... But they made it so that we can view the separately instead of seeing while playing.......... It 
 is like Grand Theft Auto III but we cant choose our missions...... They come in an order......... But 
 we can steal cars and shott people, etc. like in GTA....... The game could have been better but I 
 like it the way it is....... THe cars are vintage..... maybe they could have been more recent..... I 
 hope there is a Mafia 2 and continue like the GTA series........ Overall this is a great game................... The 
 has come under some criticism but has been going strong 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jj3ysk
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 3, 2006 3:03 am PT
Review:  I'd have to say Mafia's worth your dough... and that's even without a gun pointed to my head. Probably 
 a little violent for the kiddies, but honestly, parents, if you've got a well-adjusted kid, and 
 you've talked to him about the difference between real and fake violence, and you've set consequences 
 for your kids, there really isn't anything to worry about from a violent video game. Billy's going 
 to know not to go hitting people with his car... well, on purpose at least. Anyway, I'm not going 
 to go all Gamespot and say this is one of the best games of the year (although, looking back on 
 the year, it probably could be in contention.) but it's definitely worth your time. An enjoyable 
 romp while it lasts, I just wish driving wasn't such a big part of it all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SparkzFisher93
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 1, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  The game mafia is one of the greatest PC game I have played. Not only that but one of the best 
 shooting games I have played. The game takes place in a city called Lost Haeven (spelling may be 
 diffrent) in 1938 or something like that. The time period changes. You play as Tomy somethi'n or 
 other who was part of a mafia. Thats were they got the name. DAH! So, about the game, the gameplay 
 is good. It's pretty much just shoot people but it is still good. The story line is one of best 
 I've seen becuase of the charicters and all the twists-and-turns. Graphics are great and the sound 
 is great. The only thing that you should know is the game is very hard. The missons get very annoying. 
 The game is also pretty long. But if you like shooting games and you want a nice long game get 
 Mafia. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hionspeed64
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 19, 2006 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Mafia is a third-person shooter that lets you play through a unique gangster experience driven 
 by a compelling story. Could've been a great movie...
  
  The game mainly consists on completing the jobs your boss, Don Salieri, gives you. Fortunately, 
 theres plenty of variety in the jobs, ranging from assassinations of powerful political figures 
 to bombing a whorehouse. As different as these objectives sound, the game manages to make the story 
 coincide with all the events, and the result is none other than perfect.
  
  Gameplay really works great, and the experience of being a gangster is awesome. The only aspect 
 of the game in the game that gets a little boring is driving around. On the missions, you are instructed 
 to drive to the site, complete the job, then drive back to Salieris. This gives the sense that 
 you really are living the life of a gangster, and that you cant get the job done if you dont 
 go to the site. Another too-real-to-be-fun characteristic of the missions is that you cant drive 
 over 40 MPH, or else the police will arrest you. This totally applies to real life, but its not 
 fun to not be able to be illegal in a video game. But thats just me, and Im spoiled by GTA, anyway.
 
  
  Overall, this game delivers a solid gangster experience with a polished look and flawless gameplay. 
 It guarantees more than 10 hours of gameply and even more if you want to unlock a bunch of awesome 
 cars in Free Ride Extreme mode. A famiglia favorite!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: minwers
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Alright so i got this game not expecting much. i started playing it and i was totally carried away 
 with the plot line. the game has an awesome story line and it really makes you feel like your living 
 at the time. everything about the game is very realistic. starting with the cars in 1930 up to 
 the weapons (which i checked believe me) . the game has awesome graphics and the crouching and rolling 
 option is available in combat. the tutorial is given with an Italian American accent which i thought 
 really set the mood. during the game you might hear some phrases that a part of the mafia might 
 say. the game provide an awesome insight to the real life aspect of the mafia. in total the game 
 is awesome and deserve the rating of 10! it was superb!
  
  Stay tuned for more reviews from minwers :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodMan111
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 13, 2006 11:02 pm PT
Review:  You start in a taxi and then its happening something (Dont remember) and you get chased by another 
 mafia and you gonna drive them off. 
  
  When you have done that one of your friends coming with a letter and ask if you want to have a 
 job in the mafia and you say "I think about it". And when you come home you think and think if 
 you gonna join but you says to heself "No its illegal" (something like that) The next day you 
 gonna take a few people and drive to places like a taxi driver gonna do. And then you take a cafe 
 brake and it comes 2 members of another mafia and they take you out from the car. And they have 
 a bat they smash the car up. You run away and they gonna chase you. And you are on your way to 
 the "Friendly" mafia to get some protection. When you come there they die (Not the friendly mafia) . 
 And then it goes on you get to do missions and much more.
  
  Gameplay: Its a big world and the weapons is a good felling.
  
  Graphics: Its very good the 
 people have good graphics and everything have good graphics.
  
  Sound: Its good music and when people goes you hear the shoe clogs on the road.
  
  Value: 
 Its worth the money.
  
  Have a good day, bye bye.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nemmo_ays
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  M A F I A
  
  The story of the best 3rd person action game!
  Absolutly great!!!
  The cars are superb done and well take care of, cool control and visual efects.
  The music it's 
 ..... don't find the right words for this superb soundtrack.....
  The cutscenes are very good and can ilustrate this wonderful story line that we can find in MAFIA.
 
  Tommy a good guy, the rong person at the rong time [sorry for the end ] : ( ( but good stories end 
 up just like that.
  The city it's one masterpice, a art galery, what ever you wanna say.
  If someone say that MAFIA it's a bad game i tell him to try it more then once and to have pacience, 
 At the first time i said that i don't like it, that's to hard and after a year i have give it another 
 chance and since 2004 august it's on my hard disk and nothing can make me erase it :D 
  
  IT'S ABSOLUTLY SUPERB, GREAT.............
  
  There are some news about MAFIA 2 coming out q4 
 2006 or q1 2007 maybe GAMESPOT can ask someone about that and tell as the answer, it was not canceld 
 anyway
  i'm waiting a reply by anyone who love mafia :D
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zimethesign
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 8, 2006 11:03 am PT
Review:  Let me start like this... Mafia: The City of Lost Heaven is one outstanding game! It does everything 
 that can be good in a game fantastic.
  It&acute; s a Third person shooter with driving in It, like GTA, but It&acute; s much more fun than 
 it sounds...
  
  You play as a taxi driver named Tommy Angelo. One day you has to help a couple of mobsters from 
 getting killed by some others. Tommy get some money for his help and they want him to join them.
 
  So you join the mafia-family and you have 20 extremely fun and big missions to take care of. At 
 the beginning of each mission you go to different people in the family to get certain things. For 
 example, go to Ralph to get the latest and fastest car or you can visit Vincenso if you want some 
 good firepower. One of the best thing about this game is the story, i guess everyone heard about 
 the story in Mafia. It's one of the best stories I ever experienced in a game and it has unexpected 
 twists and turns which will keep you on the edge.
  
  The graphics is fantastic with well detailed characters and beautiful textures. The sound is also 
 top-notch, with great voices and music.
  
  I don't know if there is anything bad about this game, It may be a bit to much driving but It&acute; s 
 no big problem.
  Something other that isn't all that great is when you have completed the game and you just want 
 to walk or drive around in Lost Heaven. You don't have much to do, you can upset some gangsters 
 but it gets old after a while.
  You'll buy this game because of the main campaign, which you can play over and over again. Then, 
 after som time you want to play it once again. So if you got the money (you can get it very cheap 
 now) and like this kind of games, you should not hesitate to get this game. It has the graphics, 
 the sound, the story, and everything that you action-game fan could ever want. It&acute; s the best 
 PC game ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Don_Shadio
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 6, 2006 5:05 am PT
Review:  The city of Lost Heaven has got it all what a gamer wants. The game stands to its title and throughout 
 the game a player can enjoy being a real good mafioso.
  The city is quite big and I finally understood all roads and tracks when I played the game fot 
 the third time. It sounds difficult but thanks to the on screen map utility, one can roam around 
 without getting lost.
  The game start in a typical fashion where you play as Tommy Angelo, an ordinary taxi driver who 
 ends up being a driver for the Salieri gang. The continues like this and there are of course no 
 promotions, but yes Tommy does get more importance as he is entitled tougher tasks as the game 
 continues.
  The gameplay is fine, there could have been improvements though. Characters give more of a still-like 
 feeling rather than lively and still you can end up dead if you get hit by three pistol bullets 
 often. I often faced glitches especially in night missions. This happened on my nVidia cards but 
 never occurred on the ATi cards or Intel Extreme Graphics.
  The missions are simple but do sometimes get on your nerves if you are unable to complete due to 
 some hidden puzzle or so. Also this game has the most difficult car race mission I've ever played. 
 God! I played it more than a hundred times until I gave up and used a trainer to get past.
  The graphics at that time (year 2002) seemed great. The faces had detail which though good, still 
 might not attract for someone who wants to play it in 2006.
  The sounds of this game are ok, though could have been improved but character voices suit the characters. 
 The intro theme is exquisite.
  Apart from the game's great storyline and a supermarvellous ending, there are unlockables that 
 are quite amazing. The free-ride mode allows you to drive in the country-side which is very cool. 
 Also the "free-ride extreme" mode is filled with challenging missions, the most challenging I have 
 ever played.
  There is only one life that we get and there is only one "Mafia", both are great and should be 
 enjoyed 100%. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jack_de_Farro
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game in the world. There are no disadvantages, no deficiency, no weak points. 
 It is perfect in any case.
  
  Gameplay is perfect
  Graphics is good (for 2002)
  Sound is very good (have a great role in creation atmosphere of 30's)
  Plot is just increadible, 
 amazing... Don't have enough words.
  And the main thing: after this game Tommy Angelo, Lost Heaven and Saliery become a part of your 
 life, your biography, your memory.
  
  This is more then just a game. You must take it through you heart and understand... no, feel! that 
 it's the best game in the world.
  
  Must play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alkku94
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 3, 2006 6:39 am PT
Review:  Mafia is very surprising game, it have many good sides like: gameplay, driving, shooting, missions 
 and sounds and cars are very old and thats good thing if asked me. Mafia has got good graphics 
 and explosions are fantastic but theres still something missing like Wheel shop or something like 
 that. But i think its Masterpiece if it will be the same old mafia everyday. Mafia sounds like 
 its not good game but it really is. The game has got some sad sides like if just started game and 
 trying steal car comes "i don't know how this works" or something like that and there must be good 
 reaction speed if someone starts to shoot you.
  Points: 92/100 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vojkan80001
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 1, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  First thing that crossed my mind playing this game was "Godfather" movie, yes this game has something 
 that connects it to those movies, but at the same time it keeps its originality.
  "Mafia" really is a great game, impossible not to like even for those that are not the fans of 
 this genre. For me this game was biggest surprise in 2002, and even 4 years after that, there is 
 no game that can be compared with this one in any way!!!
  In the end its all about gameplay! And this one for sure is!
  Thing that a liked the most was 
 story and story development, you really get a feeling that you are in some movie like experience!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: andilosha
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 1, 2006 2:25 am PT
Review:  Mafia is absolutely the best game I have played. Lost Heaven is a great city, even the GTA games 
 try to make a city where you can do everything, the life in Lost heaven is really far ahead. The 
 graphics were immerse, the tilt was fantastic, it had the most realistic sound effects and what 
 I loved the most..... the story was a masterpiece! You are a gangster who is joint in a mafia clan 
 and had the things going too far. The missions are absolutely fantastic. You're not a superhero 
 who is gonna save the world, so most times you should fight to get out of a trap, but most of the 
 times you will have somebody else with you. Since I like to enjoy a game to the maximum, I never 
 pass a movie or a cut-scene without watching it, and I can tell you: "You should all the mafia 
 movies, they're amazing!". I have completed the last part about 6 or 7 times just to see the end 
 scene. If you want a video game, you should buy mafia! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uber_adam
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 30, 2006 9:33 pm PT
Review:  I think i have some sort of illness or disease, because i cant get this game out of my head. The 
 single player is just fantastic. I want to play it again and again and again. The way the story 
 of the charaters grip you is simply amazing. This game was so ahead of its time. The freeroaming 
 enviroment was truely terrific. The driving was extremely well done. I keep uninstalling this game 
 and then a couple of weeks later re-installing because im itching to play it. The graphics and 
 the driving engine were ahead of thier time too. Even the little things like when you hit a car 
 with a baseball bat the car dents. I LOVED this game like a child. The best Mafioso based game 
 for some time to come.
  
  A work of art and way ahead of its time.
  
  And now the game is extremely cheap. I suggest PC games who havent already checked this game out 
 already. Check it out now!
  
  Uber_Adam. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 30, 2006 2:36 am PT
Review:  I picked this up shortly after it's release awhile ago. I fell in love with it being a mob storyline 
 which I love. The problems I would have with it was the driving. I had a crappy system at the time 
 though. I like the game mechanics. Very easy to control, and maneuver. The plot was excellent. 
 The hardest part for most people was the rac. They actually posted a Saved game for just after 
 the race for people to use. In my opinion the race WAS hard. The handling of these cars were scary. 
 The music is the nice classic mob 30's sound which is always nice. I'd prefer this game over godfather 
 at the moment. This game I think is only $5-10 dollars now also. lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gladiator91
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2006 11:54 am PT
Review:  Mafia is an amazing gaming experience. It has so much more to offer than many other shooters out 
 there. Its immersive story line of a young taxi driver moving up the ranks of the mafia will keep 
 you on the edge of your seat. The action is non-stop and you have a large amount of authentic weapons 
 to choose from, including my favorite, the infamous tommy gun. The cars, although fake, are based 
 on actual models and drive like a charm. You really can't go wrong with this game. Many people 
 have labeled this game as another GTA copy, but it really is orgininal and unique. I highly recommend 
 this title. GO GET IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theevildoctor
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 25, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Mafia... what a game! I remember the first time I heard about this game.
  It was around the year 2003, and to tell you the truth I was really bored of all the games from 
 that time.
  Well, me and my brother were talking about games when he suddenly tells me about this sort of new 
 one.
  -Let's try it- I said. Ok, so I bought the game for PC.
  God, I was really anxious to play it. The installation took about 1 hour and a half. When it finally 
 finished and I started playing, I instantly knew
  that Mafia was going to stick around with me for a long, long time.
  
  Gameplay is a really 
 important aspect, especially for this kind of shooters. I couldn't find any bugs or mistakes that 
 could make the control of your character even a little bit annoying.
  So, for me at least, Mafia's gameplay is excellent from every single view. Simple controls, simple 
 cameras, simple everything xD
  
  As for the graphics, there are a couple, but only a couple of low points. For example, the buildings' 
 textures. They are kind of repetitive, and a lot. The same for pedestrians.
  On the other hand, main or secondary characters' textures are greatly done. And the vehicles, well, 
 just awesome. Vehicle's windows can be broken if you shoot/hit them, use the baseball bat against 
 a car and
  the the body, even the car's paintwork will suffer damages.
  
  The music... what else to say? Music is really well done, and I really mean it. It will automatically 
 transport you back to the 30's. And you won't get tired of that tunes, that's for sure ;)
  General sounds are ok too, weapons' sounds are not too good as they feel a little bit un-powered.
 
  
  Mafia features an amazing story. It haves everything a shooter needs: drama, romance, action, violence, 
 car chases, weapons, etc.
  Car chases... god, you'll want to play them once and again. Whenever you get into one, the music 
 changes, you feel the adrenaline, you feel the need to press the gas until your vehicle's engine 
 explodes, while, of course, shooting each other through the windshield
  with your Colt.
  And if you happen to crash when chasing someone at full speed... oh god, you won't see these kind 
 of crashes in any other game, not even in GTA. Car parts flying, windshields getting broken, people 
 getting hurt, engine's exploding, you trying to escape from the cops and the madness... just excellent.
 
  
  The story is separated in chapters, each one with it's own little story, mission, common jobs, 
 living Tommy Angelo's life.
  Start as a taxi driver, end up as a true mafioso.
  And don't worry if you finish the game and feel like you need more, Free Ride and Free Ride Extreme 
 Modes will get you amused for a pretty long time.
  
  Perfect story, graphics, gameplay and sound make a perfect shooter.
  What else to say? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _xyzman_
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 22, 2006 9:12 am PT
Review:  In fact, I never liked GTAish games before. And getting this game wasn't planned either. But, a 
 friend of mine decided to sort through his game collection and suggested me to try Mafia.
  
  But after an hour of the game I understood that I won't regret playing it to the end. Fantastic 
 plot, realistic mechanics and nice graphics... the programmers really did their best here. The 
 plot here combines driving and shooting routines which makes missions quite interesting. For example, 
 you're working as a taxi driver in the first part of a mission, but suddenly you get attacked during 
 the lunch break! 
  
  20 missions with unlimited replays, plus additional Freeride and Freeride Extreme modes are giving 
 this game instant 10/10 in replayability value. The only thing I didn't like is that NPCs and music 
 become so familiar and irritating. But who cares if you could just turn the game music off?
  
  So, if you haven't got this game yet, try it now! It's worth your time, believe me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kwiswiz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 19, 2006 5:28 pm PT
Review:  True greatness in game making. Rarely does a game combine the graphics of beautiful cut scenes 
 with game play along with rock solid mechanics and top tier story lines. Mafia is a game that if 
 released today would still be an "editor's pick" and a fan favorite. The story is gripping and 
 deep. The graphics are good even today and the action is fast and furious. Mafia is a genuine pleasure 
 to experience. To anyone that likes adventure/action games please take a serious look at this game 
 it is a classic to be sure. I cannot believe it has been so long since it hit the market. It is 
 always at arms reach on any fans shelf. Greatness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: recvx_pagal
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 17, 2006 1:36 am PT
Review:  This game has the best story (no kidding) . If you like a game for it's story then this game is a 
 must buy for you. I wont ruin the story for you but even then you can rely on me. I played this 
 game on ps2 in 2003. at that time only problem in the games was cheap grafics. buy the camera angle, 
 the action and my favroute heart pounding Suspense. yes that's right this game even has suspense, 
 which will suck you into the game. rest of this game is pretty much like GTA series. you go to 
 a place get a mission and complete it alone. This game is a little difficult, because it's closer 
 to reality and i apricate that unlike GTA in which your chracter can take over 50 bullets right 
 in the chest and still survive. In mafia you need to hid, duck and use your brain in certain parts 
 of the game to complete the missin. in mafia my favroute mission is "That Lucky Bastard". this 
 single mission has over 5 parts so it is very very long, and definitaly longer that any mission 
 i have played in these types of games (Driver, getaway, GTA III, Vice city and sandreas) . Though 
 this mission was long but dont ask me about about the fun i had. Overall this game is pretty darn 
 good. i would say this game is standing right next to the Guggernaught (GTA) . If Mafia 2 has all 
 the qualities of this game and some heavy bike action. then i bet that this game will sell thrice 
 of whatever GTA have sold. So if you are still thinking to buy or rent this game, then i will slap 
 your face in the the game shop, go buy this game and have some wicked fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edubuccaneer
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 13, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Mafia is an extraordinary game by the meaning of the word: its out of the ordinary. It plays like 
 a story instead of the story being played as a game. Let me explain: the story is so strong here 
 that itself alone guides the player through the experience. The graphical awness of the game and 
 the action that follows come second to the drama of the story you'll see in this game.
  
  You are Mike Angelo, a lowly cab driver in the metropolis LostHaven, a kind of mix between New 
 York and San Francisco. One night, after meeting your fare, two thugs jump into your car and tell 
 you to floor it. They are being chased by some other thugs and you are forced to outrun them and 
 help the crooks. With this, Angelo is thrown into the world of organized crime, since after the 
 chase, he's introduced to the don and becomes a soldier.
  
  The whole game is told through very elaborate cutscenes, and the story is told by Angelo himself, 
 as he's talking to another guy about his life in crime. I'm not going to detail anything, since 
 it would spoil the game.
  
  This game plays like GTA, but with a more elaborate view into the car riding. From mission to mission, 
 you'll need to drive to the place, through the city, roads and bridges. By the end of the game 
 you'll know the town like the back of your hand. And that's good, since you'll need to learn shortcuts 
 and alternate ways to arrive in places on time and to find all of the cars you'll want to jack 
 for your collection. 
  
  For weaponry, the game provides all kinds of gangster guns, from the classic Tommy Gun to the Lupara, 
 the sawed-off gun used by the Sicilian mob in hits. You'll also get some melee weapons like bats, 
 but you'll stick mostly to guns since the majority of the enemies are armed to their teeth. Most 
 missions will take you a long while to finish, since the enemies ARE merciless. This isn't an easy 
 game...
  
  The graphics in the game are wonderful, Illusion really kicked butt with all the detail. The cars 
 look amazing, people look respectable and everything is accurate to the time. The soundtrack of 
 the game is composed by jazz tunes and some blues by big bands. It's just an awesome atmosphere.
 
  
  The only gripe that I have about the game is the one sneaking mission. It's annoying since your 
 partner is really vulnerable and kind of stupid... but it's nothing you'll throw the game out the 
 window for, but you will suffer through it if you don't take the careful way.
  
  Mafia is a experience to be lived. Simply put, if you like games, you need to play this. When it 
 was released, the game was a system hog. Now, some years later, most people should have machines 
 to play this on. I suggest playing this version of the game, since the console ports got really 
 sloppy ports and ugly presentation, which is unfortunate, since the producers had sometime to polish 
 the game... but if you don't have a choice, it's worth playing anyway just for the story. 
  
  Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameman45
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 22, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Mafia is a great game and it is a pity taht it was never really recognized as a game of the year 
 or anything. This game has it all, great driving, great shooting, Pretty good freeroam, the list 
 is endless. Mafia is a fictional game based on historical events. And it even has my relatives 
 in it, Teh Morello family. My great Uncle was in fact Don Morello but enough of that. i highly 
 recommend this game to anyone. however do not get the console version because it stinks, i don't 
 know why but it does. another thing that is awesome in this game is downloads such as teh MAFIA 
 FREERIDE EXPANSION UNLIMITED. This game was way ahead of its time and it is a shame taht it was 
 not recognized too much by gamers. Gameplay- The gameplay is superb, it has a great and unpredictable 
 storyline to say the least. Mafia is indescribable how good it is.
  
  Graphics are amazing for the time that it came out. The crashing effects are pretty sweet and so 
 is the city.
  
  Sound- Great voice acting adn sound effects. However, if you buy this for a XPS system it does 
 have some sound glitches. but a quick download of the latest patch should fix it up pretty nicely.
 
  
  Value- Peple who like the Godfatehr adn other mafia gaems will definetly like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JorgePerezJr
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 13, 2006 2:59 am PT
Review:  I wish they would make more games like this. No disrespect to the GTA family but I think Mafia 
 was more enjoyable as far as storyline and characters. GTA is in my top game to buy, however... 
 Mafia has more a realistic and truth meaning behind it. I wish and still hope in the near future 
 a sequel will be on the shelves soon. With THE GODFATHER coming out, I hope it bring back memories 
 of the game play and excitement as Mafia. Every character was of importance and was easily distinguished. 
 From the beginning it grasps your attention only to lure you into what waits you on the next levels. 
 If you are worried about cheesy lines or cheesy plots in the game, need not to worry. Creators 
 of this game did a fabulous job with their imagination and creativity. The best part about this 
 game, is that it almost felt like an actual movie was being played instead of a game at moments. 
 You will not be disappointed with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 483paul
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 12, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Mafia came out in Aug of 02 and i didn't get to play the game untill 05. 3 years after the game 
 came out. I was amazed how great of a game it was and is. I still enjoyed it even though the graphics 
 aren't up to par with todays. But they still look great! and knowing it is 4 years old makes the 
 game even better because it still can compete.
  
  The game has alot of cinematic videos to tell the story. So if you don't like watching video's 
 then you may become lost in the story. But the story is very immersive and convincing.
  
  You will find yourself putting yourself in your characters shoes and becoming almost hesitant to 
 do certain things. To me that makes a great game when you can become immersed.
  
  A flaw of the game is it has you drive EVERYWHERE. Even though driving was done well you still 
 find frustration in some of the stages of car chases.
  
  I would play this game if you haven't already. Especially now you can pick it up in a bargain bin 
 for 10 bucks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CarlJohnson19
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Ce jeu est parfait. Ce jeu  sortie il y a 4 ans et il continue de m'impressionner. La qualit 
 des graphismes est trs impressionnante pour un jeu qui est sorti en 2002. Bonne histoire, on a 
 toujours hte de connatre la suite de l'histoire. Les sons sont superbe, les voix des acteurs 
 aussi. La musique est bien. Le gameplay est simple et facile  utiliser. Les voitures sont belles 
 et les caractristiques de ces voitures sont trs respects. J'espre qu'ils vont sortir un Mafia 
 2 un jour. Je le recommande  tous ceux qui aime les jeux  la GTA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tere_52mx
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 2, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  Wow, this was the first gangster game that I had ever played before. I never thought that gangsters 
 games could be so fun. This game has kept me up late and I even forget to eat while playing this 
 game. It has good graphics and it's so realistic. I love the big collection of classic cars (I 
 love the racing car) and of coarse the guns (the Thompson is my favorite) all of them are so freaking 
 realistic. At this point I haven't finish it yet but so far I love it.
  some of the missions are kinda hard and you might get frustrated because you have to start all 
 over again, but you'll get excited one you finish that mission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grasu
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 2, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  Picture this: It's the 1930s; booze has been banned, the Great Depression is in full swing, Germany 
 is rising to power and organized crime is flourishing within a world of disarray. Cars are the 
 newest and hottest things on the scene and you just happen to be the lucky owner of a car that's 
 taken up by two mobsters looking for a quick getaway. This stuff has to make for perfect video 
 game material doesn't it? Unfortunately not.
  
  In Mafia you play as a down-on-your-luck taxi driver named Tommy who earns his living in the fictional 
 city of Lost Heaven. After a close encounter with two mobsters one evening Tommy receives an offer 
 too tempting to refuse in the hellish instability of the 30s: Work for the mob and make hundreds 
 or thousands of dollars. His life turns completely around after taking the job as Tommy attempts 
 to move up the organized crime ladder of the Salieri syndicate all the while trying to balance 
 out his personal, and less than moral professional life.
  
  It doesn't take a rocket scientist to realize that Mafia's story is very well built. The characters 
 really spring to life in this organized crime epic and the plot twists are always interesting and 
 surprising to witness. Tommy, Don Salieri, Paulie and Sam (two of Tom's friends) are all brought 
 to life with great dialog, human emotions and fleshed out personalities. Mafia's story and characters 
 are totally superior to most RPGs' stories and that's a good thing, because through 20 hours of 
 atrocious gameplay this might be the only thing keeping you from throwing this game out the window.
 
  
  In stark contrast to the story Mafia's gameplay is all but epic. To the uninitiated Mafia might 
 seem like a GTA III clone - Mafia has cars, a character deeply rooted within the seedy underbelly 
 of organized crime, shooting, gangsters and random pedestrian violence, but those similarities 
 are deeply deceiving. Most players expecting a GTA-esque experience will find themselves totally 
 petrified within the first moments of the game when they'll be forced into a chase: Driving in 
 Mafia is a pain in the ass. Mafia's driving sequences, which force players to respect the speed 
 limit and to handle the extremely floaty controls of a car from the 1930s, make for the worst downtimes 
 in the game: Each driving sequence may take as much as 10 minutes without any saves point in between 
 - one speed limit violation and the whole mission might be ruined. The problem is greatly extenuated 
 due to the constant fetch quests that players are forced to undertake throughout the course of 
 the game.
  
  Unlike GTA III however, most of Mafia takes place during the actual missions. Missions vary nicely, 
 ranging from kill'em all to, everybody's favorite, escort missions. Where these missions differ 
 significantly from other games is that they're all extremely hard and frustrating: By that I mean 
 completing a 20 minute shoot out against a battalion of gangsters armed to the teeth with just 
 100 hitpoits, perhaps 1 or 2 health kits that are more troublesome to find than they're actually 
 helpful, and without any checkpoints or in-mission saves. Yes PC gamers, you've read that right: 
 Mafia is lacking in-mission saves which makes this already difficult game infuriating. The situation 
 isnt helped much by the wild time variations between checkpoints: Sometimes it takes only 45 seconds 
 to reach a new checkpoint, other times you might be looking at 20 minutes of shooting or (worse) 
 driving. During some of these missions you might be assisted by one or more allies, which turns 
 out to be far worse than going at it alone - your allies seem to be unable to keep themselves alive 
 as they constantly rush out into incoming enemy fire, they get stuck in walls or cars, or simply 
 don't even show up to help. The enemy AI is not much better, as it randomly runs in circles or 
 just simply stands there without shooting; but don't fret eager player, there's so many enemies 
 to mow down with such a small stash of ammo and health that the inabilities of the enemy AI actually 
 come in handy.
  
  Mafia's less violent missions are even more infuriating. Among these missions however the worst 
 have definitely got to be the driving ones: The chase missions in Mafia will make you want to throw 
 the game out of the window. Take all the bad things about driving, such as speed limits, flaky 
 controls or "realistic" physics and put them in a timed race with a superior car. Even reading 
 that might sound annoying, but now imagine that you have no indication of where the other car is 
 going (outside of actually seeing it) and you have to CONSTANTLY check your map not to lose track 
 of the one you're chasing. Suffice to say that most people will probably just quit the game after 
 one of these chase sequences. Unfortunately however, there's more - Mafia also has everybody's 
 favorite escort/stealth mission where you can't kill ANYBODY and where everything that can go wrong 
 does. Luckily though, these missions aren't all too common and the game usually reverts back to 
 battlefield-sized firefights fairly quickly, which is the thing it does best.
  
  One final major thing that separates Mafia from GTA III is that it's fairly linear: Outside of 
 a few side missions (which are all of the car chase/timed race variety) that don't provide anything 
 beyond new cars players have no choice of how to go about completing the missions. Mafia does feature 
 a "Free ride" mode that's about as enthralling as it sounds but 20 long missions (and a few side 
 missions) give this game long lasting longevity - Mafia takes upwards of 25 hours to fully complete. 
 Mafia also features quite a few weapons, such as sawed-off shotguns, Tommy guns, Colt 1911s, revolvers 
 and more, so there's definitely no lack of killing power. Enemies are far from varied though, ranging 
 from Thug 1 with Shirt to Mob-wannabe 1 with Black Suit but this is nicely complemented by the 
 varied amount of vehicles, which range from classic convertibles to V16 powerhouses.
  
  Nothing so far actually makes Mafia a decent game experience so then why recommend it? Simple, 
 because it's one of the most immersive games ever made. Every little detail of Mafia is intricately 
 designed to draw the player in and give them a real depiction of the 1930s: There's a plethora 
 of expertly designed cars to drive around in; a city of gigantic proportions with tall skyscrapers, 
 sleazy slums, working trains and metro awaits to be explored; and an authentic story makes all 
 those painfully hard and frustrating missions worth the effort. Even small and annoying things 
 such as having to reload your weapon, the lack of nearly any health power-ups in missions or the 
 fact that you have to start up your car every time you get in it draw you in and paint a surreally 
 realistic picture of the 1930s.
  
  The sound and graphical components add even more to this immersion. Mafia's graphics are mind blowing 
 considering the time frame in which the game was released: cartridges eject out of weapons and 
 litter the floor, blood sprays out of bodies and drips on the stairs or splatters all over the 
 walls, cars can have their windows shot out, their front bumpers ripped off or their lights smashed 
 to pieces, etc. This level of detail is also present in the lighting, which surreally blinds you 
 when the sun is peering over the city at high noon or engulfs you in a reddish-maroon glow in the 
 late hours of the day. Animation is top notch as characters flawlessly roll around or reload their 
 weapons in the heat of battle; physics are also spot on, as cars can easily tip over if the driver 
 takes an abrupt turn. The sound component is equally as well crafted: The voice acting is superb 
 and the actors deliver their lines without over emphasizing or over emoting, the sweeping orchestras 
 rise the tension in some of the more dangerous missions and the authentic 1930s music accompanies 
 players as they drive around Lost Heaven. Sound effects are equally as impressive with the low 
 guttural sound of a V16 and the clearly distinguishable fart of a 2-valve engine. Screams, shouts, 
 death cries, the ricocheting of bullets or the metal-on-face action of a crowbar are equally as 
 well crafted.
  
  Technically, Mafia would be perfect if it wouldn't be for the bugs: What this game gains in the 
 audio/visual departments it loses through horrible bugs, out of which sound bugs are the worse. 
 It seems that the developers simply forgot to add more than one channel of sound for your vehicle 
 as any slight incoming noise drowns out your car's engine making a horrible hissing sound that'll 
 make your ears bleed. In addition the intensity of the voices varies horrendously: Sometimes you 
 won't be able to hear a word with the voice volume turned up to the maximum, yet at other times 
 you won't be able to hear anything BUT the voice. The worst thing about the sound bugs however 
 is that they totally ruin the perfectly good and moody music as it either simply disappears or 
 it turns from crystal clear into static for no apparent reason. Graphically the game also suffers 
 from a horrible camera that can, on many occasions, position itself between the ceiling of a building 
 and your character making the whole being turn invisible and endowing you with the magical power 
 to walk through walls.
  
  Ultimately what makes Mafia great also turns out to be its biggest draw back: The realism and emersion 
 prove to be a double headed axe, as they draw players in only to rudely awaken them with "realistic" 
 driving sequences, overly difficult shootouts and checkpoint saves, leaving the story to stick 
 together the pieces of mediocre gameplay. Just like the 1930s, Mafia turns out to be a great idea 
 but ends up being horribly wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uchitha
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 2, 2006 5:29 am PT
Review:  I write reviews only for superb games, the games that touched my heart. This is one of those without 
 any doubt i can rate this as the Best game I have ever played. The story is superb first class. 
 When I finally end the game I felt so, I just don't know how to explain that. Man anybody who plays 
 GTA has to try this out, you will never play that **** again. I know most of you all will not agree 
 with me but trust me its worth trying this out. Obviously this is an old game release in 2002, 
 so you actually can't expect good graphics in this comparing to todays games. But the rest will 
 take you into a real world, where you would learn a lot about the life and world that you are living 
 right now. I hope they would release something like this again. Don't have words to describe this 
 true masterpiece. I love this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speed_devil
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2006 3:36 am PT
Review:  Mafia is a game that everyone must have it to his collection!!!
  
  The gameplay is as perfect as the whole packet!! You can control your character and move around 
 every corner of the town either by foot or by car!!
  
  The sound is awesome with excellent explosive and gunfires sounds!! You can hear them so real!!!
 
  
  The graphics are excellent and the physics are very smooth and good worked!! The control of the 
 car is something special as you can see the suspension pumping on every nonlinear street!! The character 
 physics are also perfect!!!
  
  The strongest advantage of Mafia is the story!! It's like a movie scenario with nothing more or 
 nothing less!! (I would say more) You have the curiosity to see what happens next!!
  
  I don't have any words to describe Mafia!!!! Just PERFECT!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Medpilot
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 27, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  Mafia is a near flawless game. It takes you from the ground up in the mob ranks and like the best 
 mafia movies ends in an all-out war. It's a mix of Goodfellas and Godfather 1. The shakedowns and 
 hits that you are sent on feel as normal as a trip to the post office with cheery music and pleasant 
 drives through the country. The dark side of the mob comes out as the greed builds. 
  My only regret in this game is that it relies mostly on the driving a car. I understand that the 
 hero is hired as a getaway driver to start with, but I felt like there should be more "send a message 
 to the enemy" missions. Like putting a severed horses head in a guys bed... that kind of stuff. 
 Don't get me wrong, the driving design is excellent and the car physics are quite good. Sometimes 
 it just feels like a racing game and you forget for an instant that you are with the mafia.
  The story is A+ material and the ending is darker than expected. Overall, it's a must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dope999
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 26, 2006 7:07 am PT
Review:  You have seen it before. There is many games today that is some kind of a wannabe Grand Theft Auto, 
 and I'm saying this because GTA was a whole new genre and I think there has been released hundreds 
 of GTA-look-a-likes, both good and bad games. And one of the (extremely) good games is Mafia. It 
 was released just after Grand Theft Auto III, and I'm not saying Mafia is a wannabe game, it's 
 just that many people decided to not like Mafia, because everybody thought is was copy, only with 
 a few changes. And it's not like that. Mafia is (so much) better than GTA III. 
  
  The game is about this Taxi driver named Thomas Angelo rather known as Tommy in the 1930's. One 
 day he takes his coffee break and suddenly he's forced to drive two mobsters (Sam and Paulie) away 
 from their enemies. When you have driven away from the enemy mobsters, you are given some cash 
 to repair your taxi, and an offer to "join" the mafia if you need anything. First Tommy decides 
 that he will forget about it, but after then later his is forced to join the Mafia, because he 
 doesn't have a choice.
  This is just the start of one of the most well done single player campaigns ever. The storyline 
 is dramatic, intense and sometimes fast-paced on some missions. There is 20 overall missions split 
 up into sequences. So when the game is finished you have over a 100 small sequences you can load. 
 The storyline is a build over a 8 year period. The missions is actually flashbacks, because Thomas 
 is telling all what he have done in these 8 years with the Mafia to a police officer. Why? Well 
 you have to play the game to find out.
  
  The GooD:
  - One of the best storylines to date!
  - Awesome graphics.
  - Cool sound effects and music. 
 Really creates a 1930's mood.
  - When you play the game, if feels like you are Tommy for real in the same situation.
  - Lots 
 of replay value, when you finished the game once you can't stop there.
  - Freeride extreme is a lot of fun.
  - The freeride can be fun if you really love it.
  - Intense 
 gameplay from top to bottom!
  
  The BaD:
  - Some freeride extreme missions are just too hard to complete.
  - The police can get awfully 
 annoying sometimes. I think they take their job to seriously in the game.
  - It can take almost 15 minutes to get to one end in the city, to an other.
  - No multi player. 
 (Damn that would be great!)
  
  The gameplay as mentioned before is almost the same as GTA. But Mafia has a lot of variaties than 
 GTA (III) has. You can shoot out of the window, you can only blow up cars, by shooting at the engine, 
 you lose health if drive into obstacles or other vehicles, there is a gasoline-meter and so much 
 more. All of this is great. It really makes the game almost perfect. The huge city called Lost 
 Heaven is really beautiful and well done. But with all these slow cars it takes some time to drive 
 around in Lost Heaven.
  
  The graphics is one of the strongest sides in Mafia. The vehicles for example looks absolutely 
 perfect and beautiful. Especially the Lassiter (Cadillac) V16. The city looks also amazing. And 
 the characters and cut scenes is also well done. 
  
  The sound and music is one of the best things in Mafia. The jazz music for example. The music will 
 change when you drive into a new area such as the Works Quarter or Hoboken. The sound effects is 
 really cool and sounds great! For example the explosions or gun sounds. 
  
  After completing the game once, you can't stop yourself playing the campaign all over again. So 
 there's defintely lots of replay value.
  
  Did you like Grand Theft Auto III and thought it was too quickly completed (Well, i thought it was, 
 read my review about the game) , then Mafia is a game for you! Mafia is a game that parents should 
 teach the children to play. Just because it's so great!
  
  Dope999 - please recommend my review, then I'll recommend yours! :P
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: L0n3W01F
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 24, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  Mafia is a great game, most peope may say that its a GTA clone but actually its not. Its something 
 original created by Illusion Softworks.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay is awesome and flawless, there is nothing bad you'll find about it. Generally its 
 a mixture of a lot of Genres like Action, Shooting, Strategy, Stealth and everyone's favorite Driving. 
 And every Genre has been done brilliantly. You'll have plenty of fun playing all of these mixed 
 ingredients. The story of Mafia is very deep and interesting with a lot of twists and turns and 
 it will definately keep you on your seats for a long time. Overall there is nothing wrong with 
 the gameplay except for the hard difficulty level but ofcourse eventually you'll understand the 
 game mechanics and the challenge will be a lot of fun.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are awesome for a 2001 game, the models are great and the detail is awesome, so are 
 the special effects like the bullet holes and bullet ejecting from the guns. And the best part 
 about is that they will also run fine on a low-end system. Overall the graphics are phenomenal.
 
  
  Sound:
  
  The voice acting, the background musics and the sound effects are very close to real, and specially 
 the ending credit song was a classic. Nothing wrong about the sound effects with the exception 
 of Intel based sound cards, cuz you might want to turn off the hardware acceleration from the Direct 
 X Settings to hear correct speeches (Only on Intel based built in sound cards, the rest will work 
 fine)
  
  Value:
  
  There are plenty of mods and add-ons on the internet to check so they will keep you companied for 
 a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vacuuum
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 23, 2006 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Mafia is one game that should be played by any gangster enthusiast. this game is delivered exceptionally, 
 the dialogue is very natural and true to the characters, they don't feel faked and the background 
 music is very 30's. The sights are also true to the time it depicts, the building, trains, cars, 
 and even the people look authentic.
  The driving in the game is not as fun as one would want it to be, the cars are slow (some don't 
 even drive properly) and the map is quite annoying, since it does not even layout the streets. 
 But it helps to promote the "olden days" feel of the game, cops are also walking around the streets, 
 which is kinda weird.
  Mafia was good while it lasted, the story was great and the delivery was exceptional. But once 
 done... it's pretty much done. The Free Ride and Extreme Free Ride options to the game are reasons 
 to get back to the game but as I've said, driving is not the strongest point of this game. That 
 said, this is still a good game, and a must play (^_^) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princeofgames90
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 19, 2006 7:13 am PT
Review:  This the game that hold your breath i mean has every thing that makes it perfect 
  
  Story: 
  This game has the best story i ever herd it takes from a normel taxi driver to a big 
 head in a big gang and then you want to stop the mafias work but you cant and thats all tald with 
 a good way I mean you play the the as your charecter says the story (After he wants to stop the 
 mafia work)
  
  Charecters:
  you will see alots of charecters wich some that you see often and other once you will fight police 
 mafia even you own gang and you While some will betray you and some you will save there lives 
 
  
  Graphics:
  it has good graphics with a A good envirument you will go in the city and it has a river spliting 
 to a country side to small italy and alot s of places more
  
  Gameplay:
  its saw cool with some glitches wich i wont even mention the only thing i didnt like is a level 
 wich your going to play a race with cars its hard its boring and you have to win the first place 
 other than that its perfect
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kreonix
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 18, 2006 5:36 pm PT
Review:  This game was made by Czech people, and Im from Czech Rep... And Im really glad, that finally we 
 can be proud of our game... Yes, Mafia is really superb game, the story is amazing, well written, 
 well presented... Just great!
  Gameplay is amazing as well... After 2 hours of playing this game, you will absolutely love this 
 game... But it has got some bad things too...
  Graphics are great, but still this game has got some graphic glitches. Even with new drivers or 
 powerful PC (my is athlon 64 3500+, 1024 ram, GeForce 7800GT) ..., you will never have smooth gameplay 
 or absolutely clear graphics... slow refresh rate is markable...
  Replay value is very poor, very... after finishing the game ( cca 10 hours) you will still love 
 this game, but you wont have any taste to play it again (this is my opinion of course) , because 
 of its linearity... after i played it again, i knew exactly where the enemys are standing... just 
 they are not living that world and theirs AI is not on the top level as well...
  Despite this things, its a great game, which is worth playing once, rent it... i bought it, because 
 i wanted to donate to czech game team illusion softworks, but i still not regret it, its amazing 
 game, but for the short time... if you like strong stories, great grafics, nice big gangster cities, 
 check it out... but if you wanna game for a long time, check GTA series... sory for my english mistakes 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 13, 2006 10:24 pm PT
Review:  A classic for sure, the game takes you right in to the game and it hits the heart of the player. 
 Truly awesome story it's like playing a movie. The game is very well planed and all the strings 
 tie up as it comes to the end, keeping the gamer on his toes as the game comes to an end, from 
 the start the player is motivated by the story. The environment is superb deffinitly better than 
 GTA even beats San andreas. The classic cars LOVE them and the freedome in the city and the well 
 placed plot and the flow of the game are awesome
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthragar
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  its great for it's efforts and fun. all the gameplay was great. if u had a gun or a bat it would 
 be fun to use em. and of course the driving kicked @$$ too. the graphics are great for two thousand 
 two game. i didn't put 2002 cuz' I need enough words. anyway, the graphics shine greatly on the 
 PC. the cars have the best graphics over all people and enviroments. the sound sometimes got annoying 
 but it was just cuz' i had to keep repeating the level so i kept hearing the same sounds. the level 
 of difficulty created some sound repetition. the value is about ten dollars. good for all u cheap 
 b@$t@rd$ out there. its really good. 8.5 to 9 out of 10. that's my score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marco1402
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 6, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  a great shooter, racing game, adventure, epic story, historical simulation. 
  
  Mafia came out just after grand theft auto 3. Both games where revelations in their genre, because 
 they created a large map to be freely explored in between the missions. These where the first games 
 to me that created a believable virtual world, with yourself inside it, like in a movie which can 
 suck you out of reality into a created story.
  This is what mafia does like no other game. It's a movie, and a good one, and you play the principal 
 part. It's like one of the other reviewers stated "Mafia is a game which can put a Hollywood movie 
 to shame."
  
  The GTA series may have a better game-play, but Mafia makes up for that with realism, story-line, 
 voice acting, all-in-all a far more realistic world. It's more exciting and there's more to explore. 
 Real life stories develop in this game. 
  The city in which the story develops is a small replica of New York in the 30's. The inspiration 
 for the story comes from real historical events, with the mafia controlling parts of the city in 
 those days. 
  
  In the game you will get a better car after each mission and while doing that it lets you have 
 an historical view of the cars that where made in those days. It even takes you by the hand and 
 shows you the basic build up of a town, with docks, churches, country side, museums, casino, city 
 hall, airport, rich and poor parts, workers and high-class districts ect ect. I've never seen a 
 city so well being recreated. It's a remarkable piece of craftsmanship. 
  
  It's the next best thing to reality and a milestone in gaming-history
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scuba05
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 3, 2006 12:20 am PT
Review:  This game, well i had much fun with it.
  Its setback in tha 30z or sumfin, but it rely gets u in. The Cars look so realistic and r great 
 fuin, and wth your classic arsenal, u will have much fun with it.
  The plot, with you being involved in the mafia, is great, to say the least. 
  The cars capture 
 the era realy well, handelling as they would in RL. Woth some absolute classic, with V16s, and 
 your good old Bugs. With your classic Tommy gun at your side, you can go wrong.
  The graphics r exellent, seeing all the stubble on unshaven men, and captures the great overcoats 
 that were fashionable very well.
  It is so immersive. It is worth every cent, and would strongly recomend it to everyone lookin 4 
 a 3rd person shooter, with a hint of classic 30's cars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeorgeTopouria
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 1, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  Developed by Illusion Softworks and published by Gathering, Mafia became an instant classis on 
 it's release and received thousands of fans worldwide.
  
  Mafia, which is set in 1930, tells a story of a man which by accident gets into the Mafia and begins 
 his career as a criminal.
  And the plot which is behind this, well, it's magnificent, just because it's not another pointless 
 GTA clone with absolutly no storyline and gameplay.
  
  The graphics, even though the game was released around 2002, is pretty top-notch for it's time, 
 and some of the graphical sides even outrun some new games coming out now.
  
  The city, which is called "The Lost Heaven", is a very large and consists of 3 mainislands with 
 unique buildings and design all around them.
  And the cars rouming the streets are very well designed and have an excellent 60s touch to them.
 
  
  And as not expected, the cars control are very well executed, and the collision system is also 
 done quite nicely which adds more realism into the gameplay.
  There are also alternative ways of transport, like the tram, which you can't control but you can 
 get on it and roum around the city.
  
  And all this excellent features indoubtfully make Mafia one of the best games of all time, and 
 there are many more things that make this game so great. And I would recommend you going buying 
 this immediantly - it won't dissapoint you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgiesbrecht
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 26, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun 
 its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun 
 its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun 
 its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun 
 its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun 
 its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun 
 its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun 
 its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun 
 its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun 
 its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun its fun 
 its fun its fun JB NAKED 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeeLove63
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 25, 2006 3:25 am PT
Review:  Well now, what can I say about this game that hasn't already been said? This is one outstanding 
 game. If you like the gangsta shoot'em ups this is the game for you. You do certain tasks and try 
 to go up in the ranks as with anything in life. You do a job well and hopefully you can move up. 
 I did have a problem with the game initially but after I bought a joystick (to drive the cars) 
 it made it a lot easier to deal with it. So if you don't have a joystick I would highly suggest 
 getting one. It just makes it a whole lot easier... trust me on this one.
  
  The graphics and storyline are outstanding. I just can't seem to get enough of it. And the music 
 superb. I know one thing I really feel like an old gangsta going thru this game and it just feels 
 so real and intense. IF you haven't picked this one up. I would highly suggest adding this one 
 to your collection if you like the old gangsta style setups. Definitely a thumbs up on this one. 
 
  
  Happy Gaming to you all and have a great rest of the week!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hwoarang12
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 9, 2006 5:22 am PT
Review:  I really don't know what to say because this game is perfect! Year 1930 is great. Gameplay in Mafia 
 is absolutely fantastic. Missions are pretty, pretty good. Weapons, cars, characters are superb. 
 Tommy Angelo is a great hero!
  Storyline is one of the best I ever saw. This game wasn't boring in 2002 and it isn't boring now 
 and I tell you one thing, Mafia will never be boring, NEVER!
  So gameplay is superb. You will shoot, run, you will get new cars.
  Sound is very good. The soundtracks 
 from 1930's are pleasure to hear.
  Graphics are really great. Mafia has got similar graphics to GTA San Andreas or even a little bit 
 better. I must say that Mafia was realise in 2002, San Andreas in 2005 on xbox. So this is three 
 years. What more can I say? I can't believe it, but Mafia hasn't got any minuses. This game is 
 PERFECT! One of my favourite games!
  A "must have" for everybody, EVERYBODY! Buy this game and pay respect to your familie. :-)
  
 
  Wonderful game! Masterpiece!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwulith
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 24, 2006 2:55 am PT
Review:  Mafia is an overlooked gem. For starters, this is probably the best free roaming game since Grand 
 theft auto three and Grand theft auto vicecity. The main reason is the great story; other small 
 reasons are the great graphics and the quality of voice acting. Although lacking replay value and 
 a bit on the tough side, this is a fun and well-done 3rd person, free roaming game.
  
  In Mafia, you play as Tommy. He is basically this taxi driver who soon becomes a member of the 
 Mafia. The story is down right fantastic, and is one of the best stories Ive ever seen in a video 
 game. The surprises keep on coming and the main character is very likable since he has feelings.
 
  
  The gameplay is really what counts in a game, and this one has great gameplay in spades. The shooting 
 is very solid and AI ion both sides will give you a run for the money. Plus, the driving is well 
 done, with accurate representation.
  
  The city youre in, Lost Heaven, is a pretty well done New York City, which is what its modeled 
 after. Its also pretty realistic. You can get a ticket if youre carrying a gun, running a red 
 light, or even going over the speed limit. If you dont stop for a ticket, then you get arrested. 
 You can lose the cops by just stealing another car and hiding for a while.
  
  The main reason the difficulty is so bad is because of the tough missions that dont give you a 
 lot of health and ammo. This game will challenge gamers to the max; there really is no easy mission.
 
  
  Since this is the 1930s, be ready for lots of 1930 terms, such as: Send my regards to your family. 
 The vehicles and weapons also have a 1930s feel and look. Be ready for slow vehicles that you 
 have to be taught how to pick-lock.
  
  The graphics in Mafia are great. Character models and animations are spot on, and the textures 
 are nice. There is some slight pop in and clipping though. The sound is every bit as impressive 
 as the graphics, thanks to the talented voice acting and phenomenal weapon and car sounds that 
 make you feel like youre in the 1930s.
  
  Mafia might not be as flashy or popular as GTA, and even though its more like The Getaway with 
 straightforward missions and linear story, the story is still outstanding and the graphics engine 
 is fantastic, and you should play this game for the story alone, I just cant stress that enough. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buick87GNXv6
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 20, 2006 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Set in the early days of the italian mobs of america, late 20's & early 30's, Mafia really makes 
 you feel like your in that time period thats been gone for so many decades. The graphics are exceptional, 
 with high texture quality and excellent models. Most of the animations are excellent, only a few 
 rough edged moves made it into the game. The view distance is incredible, and the detail in the 
 old fashioned cars and buildings is just almost too intricate. The music playing on the radio is 
 aThe story pans out following your adventures as a mob man, and you get to steal cars, assasinate 
 people, rob buildings, just about the usual fare for a mobster. Stealing cars is a skill that you 
 acquire throughout the game - your taught how to break the locks of certain cars by your mechanic, 
 so as you progress through the game you become more knowledgeable. You have your choice to follow 
 the plot or to avoid it, but it is a lot more evident that a plot exists in Mafia than in GTA - 
 your almost always on a mission. And dont fret, there are plenty of side missions to embark on 
 as well.
  
  Another big plus to Mafia is that all the cars handle and generally feel like 30's era cars - slow 
 and clunky. Oooh, a high speed chase at 30mph! There are all types of cars, including some really 
 hot roadsters and coupes, and your normal mafia sedans.
  
  All in all, the great story, excellent graphics, great environment, and non linear gameplay, all 
 add up to one hell of a game thats worth any real gamer's time and money. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: funnyvlad
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 18, 2006 6:29 am PT
Review:  This is a truly remarkable game. I have to admit that it was over a year ago I played it but even 
 today the graphics are stunning. 
  
  Its amazing that a game that are almost 3 and a half years old can still look good. An ambitious 
 story and nice polished graphics (beats GTA series easily) . Your main character Tommy Angelo is 
 brilliantly voiced by Mike Sorvino. And the cut-scenes are beautiful done. The similarities between 
 GTA series are few cause GTA series look plain and dull (visually) . The gameplay (the only negative 
 thing in this game) are not top-notch. It is sometimes very hard to pass some missions which can 
 result in frustration. Especially the car race. Even though Im not a specialist on racing I still 
 can manage NFS series quite easily so the car race her is just irritating. And not so realistic 
 cause it is very hard to understand why your character Tommy has to win a race even if he isnt 
 a skilled driver. Very stupid to put such a mission in this game. But the game itself are decent 
 long and the other mission are various and funny that in the end you forgot about the race and 
 when you finally finish this masterpiece, you feel happy and empty in the same moment. The ending 
 of the game is a separate story. Really surprising, kinda make you sad if you liked your character 
 which is easy cause he is brilliantly voiced as I sad.
  
  This game can be bought very cheap nowadays and dont let the year of production fool you. Still 
 it is definitively worth playing and look remarkable (if you have a decent rig)
  
  Highly recommended 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smintar
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  I never thought that after all these years there would be a game that has as good a playabity as 
 Xcom UFO. My next question is why is it so hard for other game companies to make as good of a game 
 as Mafia??
  
  I know that this review is somewhat late in time but still I had to write. When a gamer finds a 
 Treasure like this 1 he wants to share it.
  
  1 fault that this game has is that when you complete the game you should be able to do whatever 
 after it in free ride.
  
  Maybe just maybe the Sequel will have that luxuary only time will tell. It weouls also seem that 
 Gamespot would be agressive enough to go and find out about Mafia2 maybe this time it might have 
 MP.
  
  But for sure theres so many good things about this game and for those that have played or havent 
 played it Go and play it some more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MusicalGizmo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 11, 2006 8:23 am PT
Review:  Mafia is definitely one of the best games I've played to date. After playing GTA: VC, I've gotta 
 say that this game is more realistic in that it's less about the flash and more about the bang. 
 You will find yourself driving crosstown in pathetically slow cars just to rough up some punks, 
 but that's what the mafiosos in the '30s had to do. The game is hard and takes awhile to learn 
 how to stay alive (sorry, you cant sustain 20+ bullet wounds in this game) , but it is very rewarding. 
 The graphics and sound blew me away even more than the game's format - you'll want to crank them 
 up as high as they go. So while this game isn't an adrenaline-pumper for me, it's an authentic 
 and massive representation of a genre that finally got its masterpiece PC game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raginghomer
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2006 1:26 am PT
Review:  This is simply one of the greatest games ever made for pc. Don't let people tell you its a cheap 
 Grand Theft Auto knock off it has its own great story, great graphics and excellent gameplay completly 
 different to Grand Theft Auto's and in most cases better too.
  
  It has some great modes like free ride which is just free roaming around lost heaven and obviously 
 the story mode which is where the game really shines. the only thing wrong with this game is that 
 you need a top notch computer to get the most out of it otherwise this is a masterpeice.
  
  Go and buy this as soon as you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pawliuz
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2006 5:29 am PT
Review:  the game released in early 2002 but i still play it in 2006 and it still looks fabulous . take 
 any other game of 2002 - no match for games in these days . but mafia is something special , it 
 is the best game i ever saw . Mafia beats all games in all aspects . even now graphics looks very 
 good , four years later , gameplay is great , but i especially like the story , it is the best 
 plot ever . next thing is length of the game ; thanks god it's not to short , what could ruin the 
 great game like max payne2 . Mafia is not just a game , it's a legend ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yanks26wsw
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 6, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game. I think it is very cool how you sort of stumble into the mafia, it 
 has a great story to it. I like this game way better then the Grand Theft Auto series as well. 
 Most people say they are very similar, I tend to disagree. Most people will follow the story more 
 in this one, carry out all of the missions, it is a great game. I think that the best part is the 
 scene at the restrauant. The racing stage was very difficult and I did have to use the little "trick" 
 to pass that level, but that is because I stink at driving games. It really is a great game, great 
 graphics, and it is difficult enough to keep you entertained but easy enough for you to actually 
 advance in the game some. 
  
  Cover Artwork ~B-~ Pretty good cover but could have hade more things on it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhitePenguin
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 4, 2006 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Mafia ia a third-person shooter set in no were else but the 1930's in a Chicago style toen called 
 "Lost Haven". Very cool city. This game has one of the best stories ever, full of suspense and 
 drama alike. The graphics, top notch, the faces, cars, guns, etc. The sound, excellent voice-overs 
 and car sounds and gun sounds and the music is phenomenal. The gameplay, very easy and fast reacting 
 controls and it is a really, really fun game. Value, for only 20$ this game is frekin' sweet! u 
 can also mod it like crazy! Overall, I love this game and is definetly one of my favorite games 
 ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KnightofNi90
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 31, 2005 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Thomas "Tommy" Angelo was a simple cab driver in the 1930's city of New Heaven, making enough to 
 scratch out a living, when all Hell broke loose. Two mobsters jump into his cab, point a gun at 
 his head, and tell him to drive. This glorious game starts out with you having to escape a car-full 
 of mobsters trying to kill you. Talk about a baptism by fire!
  By far, Mafia is the greatest value I have ever found: 20 dollars for a bundle of this game and 
 Max Payne 2. Beautiful and compelling storyline, excellent gameplay, a wonderful music score, and 
 dificulty that actually instills a feeling of self-pride after completing that near-impossible 
 mission. The city of New Heaven is alive around you, with people walking on the sidewalks like 
 they have a purpose, and a police force that will actually pull you over for traffic violation 
 like speeding and even driving through a red light! The physics of the game are unbelievable, with 
 cars so realistic to the period, you'll actually struggle to climb small inclines, let alone escape 
 a car-ful of Thompson-weilding hitmen.
  The story is told in memoir-form, with Tommy speaking to a police inspector, promising information 
 about the famed Salieri crime family in exchange for a new, peaceful life with his wife and children. 
 The game follows Tommy's growth in the Salieri family, becoming one of Salieri's closest friends, 
 but a life of killing and crime finally starts to wear down Tommy, so he decides to speak to the 
 Police.
  The missions are far-ranging, from busting up the rival family's cars, to killing politicians.
 
  This game can be brutal, but there's an option to turn down the amount of blood, and there is 
 some language.
  
  This game is awesome. It'll be impossible to resist the urge to hum The Godfather's theme song 
 while driving around the city of New Heaven. Buy this game NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meo2
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 22, 2005 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Mafia's gameplay is like no other game. People say that it's just like GTA, but it's 
 not. GTA feels a little cartoony after a while, but the good graphics and seriouse music makes 
 you actually feel like you are a gangster in the 1930s and that you got serious business to take 
 care of.
  
  Graphics: Mafia has the best face models the I've ever seen, and the fact that this is a game from 
 2002 makes the graphics even more amazing.
  
  Sound: Wonderful classical jazz music that makes the game very smooth. It's also quite catchy. 
 The game's opening theme is almost as much as a masterpiece as the game is.
  
  Value: Well, back when the game came out, it costed more, but currently it's $10 almost anywhere 
 you go. Mafia for only $10 is an offer you can't refuse.
  
  Tilt: I'd like someone to tell me why this game doesn't deserve a tilt of 10.
  
  If The sequel 
 ever does come out, i think i'll have sex witht he disk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegodfatherIV
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 22, 2005 12:28 am PT
Review:  Quite simply, Mafia is an excellent game. It's fantastic graphics and in-depth gameplay make it 
 so. But, the story is what builds a game's bones, right? 
  So, Mafia's story is quite incredible and it puts you in the eyes of mob enforcer Tommy Angelo...
 
  The opening credits quite simply says it all. It is all done cinematically and makes you feel 
 like you are watching a classic mob movie. It all starts off in 'present day' w/ Tommy walking 
 into a bar and meeting a police detective. Tommy is in need of protection from his boss so he turns 
 to the police. The whole single player mode is played and told in 'flashback' sequences and steadily 
 moves up to 'present day'. It is quite amazing how well this game is put together.
  You have a wide variety of weapons and vehicle selection. And you walk around the fictional city 
 of Lost Heaven w/ a sleek suit enforcing the 'law'... what more can you ask?...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: andoZo
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2005 7:08 am PT
Review:  Even it's over 2 year since i last played MAFIA, I havent forgot it....
  This is a really masterpiece!! It's so cool to drive around in the old cars, shoot off wheels, 
 hide for the police and much more. 
  
  Mafia is a very realistic game. If you walk on the streets with your gun, and as policeman discovers 
 it, he will run after you (or shoot you) . It's not hard to get "dragd" into the game, suddenly you 
 kind of feel that you are in 1930! The racingcars is very fun to drive. 
  
  I cant think of any bad things about this game! I give it a 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GatorTheGeek
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 17, 2005 5:13 pm PT
Review:  this game is awsome , it surely gets down the 1920s feel with it the music, the cars, the weapons, 
 the carachters, the city. for 10$ bucks you cant beat it. the sound is awsome too. i just love this 
 game and you should too, there no sense not to like it. if your a fan of 3rd person shooters, get 
 this game now. and if you dont like 3rd person shooters ,well get it anyway. cause this game R U 
 L E S ! ! ! !. ITS JUST SIMPLY AWSOME, and there you have it the mafia lowdown. so ill see ya next 
 time cause im out for now. gatorthegeek. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fution2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 15, 2005 11:14 am PT
Review:  Quite a while since i bought this game, but i thought i would share my thought's with you all.
 
  Ive got to say, when i booted this game up and started playing, i was well hooked.
  At the time , the graphics presented themselves extremly gorgeus, and i was well impressed with 
 what i saw.
  Some of the mission's you do in Mafia, have to be some of the best ive played on any game.
  You 
 get the feeling also, that your actually playing a kind of movie role, and that your this bad ass 
 gangster, who has a reputation to keep.
  It's kind of hard to explain , what Mafia is like, but it come's across like a serious version 
 of GTA.
  You do get to drive arrange of vehicle's, and have many diffrent weapon's to carry.
  To get a 
 idea of what im talking about, you do honestly have to try Mafia for yourself.
  Even now, it still stand's tall, and play's with much amusement.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: I_love_Harmony
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 11, 2005 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Mafia is a good game no doubt about it. The graphics are fairly good, the story is immersive and 
 well told and the gameplay is great with a variety of weapons and cars. However the game can get 
 a little tedious most missions require you to drive to the location and thats just a plain waste 
 of time and while it's fun at first it gets tedious. Second of all the game is very linear and 
 could have been more open ended. But as it stands you cant roam about freely and have to keep on 
 a set path to complete them missions. The main game is pretty long and the 20 levels divided into 
 sub-missions are fun to play. The shooting isnt that fun and can get repetitive. Overall I would 
 say it is a good game but it could have been more open ended that gameplay could have been a bit 
 more varied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XBOX9MM
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 10, 2005 8:44 am PT
Review:  this game is one of the best games i have ever played i highly suggest you rent or buy it for: 
 PC, XBOX, PS2. I bought the game about a year after i first bought it and it was only $5.99 at EBgames. 
 so you all should try the game. its all most like a Grand Theft Auto in the 30's. so i would buy 
 it for any one who like Grsnd Theft Auto style games. heck if it was a prestent i bought for some 
 one i would be playing it before i wrapped it and gave it to them!!! so buy it now at: sams club, 
 EBgames, Game stop, wallmart, or any PC game store
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: seankun
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2005 1:30 am PT
Review:  This is a great game all the way around. 10 out of 10.
  
  The old cars, guns, music, death... wonderful.
  
  Definately try it out.
  
  You start of 
 as a taxi driver in the big city (and it is a BIG city) and end up as 1st class Mafioso.
  
  Stealing cars at will is a very fun part of the game too. 
  
  The only thing is that it is 
 very linear. Until you solve the game and unlock Free Ride Extreme. Then you will have free riegn 
 to drive around the city as fast as you want. Solving very dificult yet fun mission.
  
  Check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuipstoel
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 3, 2005 2:08 am PT
Review:  A good game bassed on the mafioso's of the erly 30' . The cars are classic and nice maded. They 
 are not so fast but a lot of fun. if you like Grand Teft Auto San Andreas and old-skool ride's 
 this s a game for you. It's a nice and realistic game with actions and shooting and a lot of more. 
 All the friends of tommy are real mafioso's he is a beginer and on this way you must bekom the 
 most fear mafia of the city. The police in this game are quite of enoing ans olso stupid. What's 
 olso nice is that you can download nice cars from the internet and nice clothes you can make from 
 the mafia tommy the gangsta tommy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TerenceGrech
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 27, 2005 6:50 am PT
Review:  Mafia?
  
  It's a fantastic game for me it's perfect i hope that there will be more games like this game. 
 The story of this game has impresed me very much and it will help you with many things on your 
 life that before you decide you need to think well about what to do in your life. Graphics of this 
 game are great , sound good to and Gameplay are very good. Well that's it i hope that Godfather 
 will be good like Mafia see you all hope you like my review.
  
  And if you didn't bought this game you better go and buy it cause it's worth it
  
  MAFIA IS 
 THE BEST GAME EVER 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrLaskowski
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 21, 2005 7:01 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game. I think it is very cool how you sort of stumble into the mafia, it 
 has a great story to it. I like this game way better then the Grand Theft Auto series as well. 
 Most people say they are very similar, I tend to disagree. Most people will follow the story more 
 in this one, carry out all of the missions, it is a great game. I think that the best part is the 
 scene at the restrauant. The racing stage was very difficult and I did have to use the little "trick" 
 to pass that level, but that is because I stink at driving games. It really is a great game, great 
 graphics, and it is difficult enough to keep you entertained but easy enough for you to actually 
 advance in the game some. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hush404
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 13, 2005 7:03 am PT
Review:  Mafia, because its on the PC and not a FPS or RTS feels a little awkward and clunky at first but 
 its not too hard to get use to the control scheme. For the most part youll be using a combination 
 of the WASD keys (or arrow keys) and the mouse to move your character around and interact with 
 the game. I found a problem controlling the cars and their acceleration because when using a keyboard 
 there is no level of sensitivity in the keys, they are either pressed or not and after playing 
 a good number of driving games on the consoles you get use to the pressure sensitive buttons which 
 allow you to adjust acceleration depending on how much pressure you apply to the button. But thankfully 
 the game dedicates a button to limiting your speed, so at any time you can hit that button to activate 
 the speed limiter which makes sure you dont go over the speed limit and thus you wont be stopped 
 by police for speeding.
  
  The Graphics in Mafia are really something special. The city of Lost Heaven is beautifully laid 
 out with heavily populated city sections, Islands, Country area, a harbor, two massive bridges 
 and lots more to look at and check out. The car models themselves are great although they have 
 this high gloss to them which kind of takes away from the realism, but you wont mind too much 
 because they're fully destructible. The character models on the other hand are beautiful and richly 
 detailed. Tommy, Paulie, Sam, Saliari, Frank and the rest of the gang all sport close to photo 
 realistic facial modeling which is surprising because the game was released in 2001. They really 
 look like actual people and not just video game characters, which really helps in drawing you into 
 the world and keeping you immersed. 
  
  Mafias sound matches the graphics in quality. The voice acting is top notch, the cars engines 
 sound great, gunfire, explosions and almost every other aspect of the sound is Grade 'A' material. 
 Music while a bit limited to a hand full of tunes which change depending on which area of the map 
 your in is well done and faithful to its time, which would be the 1920s-30s. My only gripe with 
 the sound is how pedestrians sound when they talk to you and others in the world. They are voiced 
 but they all sound like squeaky mice! Im not exactly sure why the team decided this was a good 
 idea.
  
  Game play is where its at and its thankfully fun and rewarding. Youll be running around, shooting, 
 driving, racing, doing shoot outs and occasionally solving an odd puzzle or two to continue the 
 story. While you may be thinking that a ton of games have done that before, its true but Mafia 
 makes it feel new, fresh and fun, possibly because no one else has really done a game like that 
 set in the 20s/30s. Be warned though its not an easy game, you will die many times trying to 
 complete missions. Besides doing the missions one after the other in the main story of the game 
 you can also load up free roam mode and do what ever you want to do, or alternatively you can play 
 free roam extreme which is unlocked after you beat the game. In free roam extreme youll be able 
 to do additional missions to win new cars and jump huge ramps, which add a bit of wacky fun to 
 the game even though it doesn't make alot of sense. If you choose, you can check out the carclopedia, 
 an encyclopedia with lots of information dealing with power, speed, make and model of all the cars 
 youve unlocked. Sadly there are no Multiplayer options in Mafia, even though it would have been 
 nice to LAN some PCs together and go through the city of Lost Heaven with a few friends causing 
 havoc.
  
  Mafia was a pleasant surprise for me personally because I picked it up in a 2 pack with Max Payne. 
 But for everyone else, its got my highest recommendation. It really feels like youre playing 
 an epic gangster movie which is a great ride all the way through. The only real problems I had 
 with the game were the slightly awkward driving controls, some of the pedestrian voiceovers and 
 the exclusion of multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghoulishdoll
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 12, 2005 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- very original and authentic, really brings out the whole mafia underworld atmosphere 
 of the 1920's-30's. Missions are pretty well thought of and the number of cars you can choose from 
 the garage is pretty good too. With all these classic models. 
  
  Graphics- graphics wise this game kinda lags in that aspect. The animations are pretty decent but 
 the physics of the charcter is still too stiff. And the interaction between objects and players 
 is kind of bad.
  
  Sound- Music was very well and adds to the great atmosphere of the game. The sound of the gunshots 
 and cars are very good in my opinion. Player voicing for this game is also well done too
  
  All in all i think it was a very fun game with lots of different missions but the lack of ability 
 to stray off and do anything else was something that was lacking. A worthwhile buy for mobster 
 fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C_Ronaldo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 2, 2005 8:49 am PT
Review:  This game amazing. It has great long term playabilty, you can play it over and over again, without 
 getting bored!
  The graphics are so ahead of there time, they still look amazing today! The missions are jam packed 
 and exiting, and the characters are likable.
  The best thing about this game is the story though. It reels you in, it's just so immersive. The 
 ending really grabs you, it touched me :'- (.
  Not only the story mode though, once you complete the game there is free roam mode, where you can 
 do missions to get special cars, which may sound boring but is actually great fun!
  All in all this is an outstanding game, and well worth playing if you haven't yet. The game will 
 only be bettered in it's genre by Godfather, which will be much like this, just more free roaming 
 and less stor based! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iruleall
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 1, 2005 5:15 pm PT
Review:  i remember playing this game... i loved every single minute, the gamplay is very challenging but 
 not too challenging to the point where you dont want to play it, the reason you want to play it 
 is beucase though the missions are challenging, the storyline is amazing, every mission you go 
 through brings you one step closer to the end of this immense story and it keeps you guessing and 
 anticipating the whole time!
  
  i would say if you have the money to pick up a copy, get it!!
  
  not only is the stroyline 
 amazing, but if you like to see what it was like in earlier times, this is the game to get, the 
 30's atmosphere is amazing (i personally love the 30's ^^) . The atmosphere, the gameplay, the storyline, 
 all great. Also in the realism department this game is not bad, you are not automatically arrested, 
 you can also get tickets from police, adding a whole new aspect to getting in trouble.
  
  All in all, i would say that you should definately pick this one up folks ; ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wise_guyfhm
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2005 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Never had quite expectations from Third person action adventure at that time when the game came 
 out, although before that MAX PAYNE was gr8 but still the genre has lot to offer specially as its 
 only worthy of some survival horror games like RE or Silent Hill.
  But when this game came out i just become its addicted, never spent so much time on any thing then 
 playing this game.
  altough i hate driving games and it has lot of driving and even very difficult racing and lot of 
 chasing still the story line was sooo intruging that i just play it and played it till remarkable 
 ending
  This game is infact quite a standard for modren gaming as its FANTASTIC graphics and details with 
 exciting game play and with very minimal machine requirement tough i got very powerful machine 
 but saw this game running well is many lower spec machines.
  this one is way better than GTA as GTA has its moments but this one has rock solid story and more 
 sense.
  Ohhh MAFIA i want your sequel.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MeepMeepoo
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2005 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Mafia, even though the game came out close to 4 years ago, it can still keep you entertained for 
 about 70 hours of gameplay. Though the game lacks the arcade style that the Grand Theft Auto series 
 has, (Bribe police, Kill 10 people before you get noticed by the police, driving amazingly fast 
 cars) Mafia really shows realism that the GTA Series does not have. The missions are fast-paced, 
 heart-pounding action. Even though you might have to try missions over and over again, due to the 
 failures, you'll be happy when you pass a mission after 5-10 tries. Trust me, I had the experience.. 
 The main character, Tommy Angelo and his participation in the Mob and how he gets betrayed and 
 how HE betrayed some characters affected the storyline. The storyline was not too complicated, 
 but it makes you feel like you're in the shoes of Tommy, running and gunning, defeating rival gangs, 
 and even driving a Taxi!
  One advantage that GTA has is that they have fast cars. Mafia? Not so much. The cars range from 
 1938 sedans that only have 60-90 horsepower to 2-3 racecars which have around 230 horsepower. But 
 of course, if you want fast cars with fast acceleration and top speed, play the GTA Series.
  A key addition to this game is that you can also ride trains and trams.
  The selection of guns 
 are also plentiful, ranging from brass-knuckles, baseball bats, knives, to Machine guns, handguns, 
 and shotguns.
  
  Graphics, let's talk about Mafia's graphics. Why the 8/10? It's because of frequent glitches and 
 the pedestrians are a bit blocky. The animation of a gun dropping is like rag-doll physics in a 
 First Person Shooter. Unfortunately, there are no rag-doll physics character-wise, when they are 
 gunned down by a Thompson or a Colt 1911. The overall graphics are pretty good, and can overcome 
 many games in the present.
  
  The sounds in the game were authentic, from a loud horn from a car, to the police sirens heard 
 from far away in real life. The character voices were acted well, and the italian accents add a 
 bit more of realism that the characters are real. The gun shot sounds are amazing, from the sawed-off 
 shotgun blast to the clips wasted on a Thompson.
  
  The value is amazingly cheap now in 2005, where you can get a value pack of Mafia with Max Payne 
 for only $20 CDN. But if you were talking about when it first came out at a price of $50 CDN, this 
 game is definately worth it.
  The production values are amazing, think of how much they spent hiring Graphic designer and look 
 how good the graphics are.
  
  I have not read much about Mafia's success before I bought the game, so I didn't really tilt that 
 this game is good, even though it was mediocre (THIS GAME IS NOT MEDICRE)
  
  Overall, this game is now a value-priced game and is definately wroth checking out for your PC. 
 And the best thing is- You don't have to go buy a ATI X1800 graphics card to play this, even a 
 Radeon 7000 with 64MB will do the trick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CarmineJunior
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2005 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Mafia :City of Lost Heaven is unique: gameplay, music, charachters, cars, weapons, sound quality, 
 video quality and story line. 
  
  Subject:
  You are Tommy Angelo, a simple taxy driver which is pushed without his consent into the mafia. 
 Initially refusing to play a role in the Don's familiy he realises he could be as rich as he dreamt 
 if gets into the job. Joining the Don's family he begins to develop as a real mafioso. The action 
 goes by 20 missions, each with submissions and cutscenes. 
  The interesting thing is that in every mission you learn to steal a car. And there are plenty of 
 them and well designed. There is even an encyclopedia in the game presenting every model.
  The guns are very well designed and the character acts realistic in handling them. The soundtracks 
 of the game are awesome. In the specific style of the '30s, Mafia game takes you into a high quality 
 audio experience: the sound of the shots, the cars' engines, the music while you cruise the city, 
 every sound is made with high standards. A 5.1 EAX soundcard could provide basic superior quality,
 
  A minimum 64 MB VRAM is recommended, as drawing distance requires much of it. For loading a 2Ghz 
 processor should do the trick very well. 512 MB of RAM should help if those mentioned above are 
 present. 
  
  Mafia game also teaches as about some real life facts . Some monologues of the main charachter 
 are very describing. And the intro video presents a Romans excerpt from the Bible. And many more 
 could be said but i let you to install and play it until you will get to no sleep :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamebills
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 21, 2005 9:23 am PT
Review:  I saw this game priced at a mere $9.99. I remember It getting mediocore reviews and thought I'd 
 try it out. After the first cinamatic movie I was hooked. Yes, this game is set in the 1940's, 
 and yes the cars back then were slow, but don't let that intimadate you like it almost did me. 
 This is possibly one of the most proffessional games I have played since Halo. The missions span 
 from taxi fares to drive bys to breaking and entering. The plot is well constructed and twists 
 from the beginning. At one point in the game, your character takes on proffessional driving on 
 a race track with really fast cars for that time peroid ( 125 MPH ) . I was stuck on this part for 
 a few days, but keep going at it, because this game has so much more to offer. 
  
  ~Bill 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mo26
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 16, 2005 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Mafia is definately the best game of this year!
  
  From gameplay, to graphics, to storyline, mafia surpasses all other games in its genre. Most importantly 
 though, its excels in one aspect which all games should contain, "fun", and this games is REALLY 
 fun!
  
  The story hooks you form the start, and soon you are stealing cars and carrying out deadly missions 
 which include assassinations of rival mafia leaders.
  
  This game is a must have, even now, it is still visually and stunningly impressive.
  
  I definately 
 consider Mafia as being one of the greatest games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nachliel
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 16, 2005 9:04 am PT
Review:  The complexity of the game.
  The game is like GTA 3, but much much better, this game even better then the GTA 5 !
  I like 
 this game because lots of reasons but some of the main reasons that every game need to consider 
 is that:
  - Details in the game.
  Mafia has so much details, from the people who walk in the street to the
  Traffic ticket that 
 the cop gives you after you drive in speed over 60 km/h 
  in town.
  - Story
  Mafia has a great story! The man who wrote the story is a genius!
  The story is about love, money, 
 power, justice, crime. And not just foolish 
  missions like GTA missions...
  - Time spend
  This game is very long, you have to complete the Campaign and in the
  Campaign 
 you can unlock some special cars.
  And after the Campaign you have special missions that you need to find in the
  City, funny missions. 
 Very fun :)
  In conclusion this game is worth the buying.
  
  And it's better then all GTA games that have came out!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: estani
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 15, 2005 5:54 pm PT
Review:  When i first heard about this game i couldnt wait for it to come out (which was an incredibly 
 long wait) ... I built up a lot of expectations for this game, and we all know what they say that 
 if you build too much expectations it lets you down... well, this time it didnt it had everything 
 I hoped for and more.
  Incredible gameplay ,amazing characters and story, the graphics are also great. This game is a 
 classic, and it will be for all times...
  THX for listening... Sorry for my english, im argentinian
  
  PEACE OUT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Idiom
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 15, 2005 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Mafia is a classic that seems to of passed alot of people by.
  The graphics are very clean and crisp and the sound effects are good, the weapons are modeled quite 
 well although you are stuck using a 3rd peron prespective. The weapons range from knuckle dusters, 
 switch blades, to colts, tommy guns and sniper rifles. Combat isnt too arcadey and you will very 
 quickly get cut down if you're not careful.
  Driving is a big element in many of the missions and is your primary means of travel around the 
 large game map, driving is fun, you can shoot out of your door window and passengers can shoot 
 too. Though cars are fairly fragile because there is some realistic damage modeling, e. g. you can 
 get your fuel tank shot and run out of gas + you can get your tires shot out. The cars are mosly 
 quite slow and crappy though this is in keeping with the period in which the game is set, I think 
 your second car has 2 gears!! There are lots of fun car chases and one of the levels is competing 
 in a professional race.
  The plot is what makes the game good so try not to hang around too much, get on with the missions. 
 You will quickly get bored if you just mess around in the game environment as you might in GTA. 
 Some of the missions are quite tricky but one you have a few attempts and get the hang of what 
 to do theres nothing to difficult. 
  The police are really hot in this game, you cant get away with things like you do in GTA.. you 
 break the speed limit a cop will stop you, you show a gun in public and a cop sees you you'll get 
 shot at/arrested etc.
  This is really a game that every FPS/action driving Fan should have in their collection.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 13, 2005 2:30 am PT
Review:  The graphics are very good. The animations are maybe a little stiff, but the overall presentation 
 is just so awesome. The cinematics are very good, and the fact that the city is so huge and features 
 so many different parts of the city is great. 
  
  The sounds are great. Sound effekts is realistic and presice. The tunes are in full Mafia stile, 
 and that also means they are great. 
  
  The gameplay is maybe the best in this game. A huge city with lots of this to do. A extremely deep 
 story which easily could have been a film. Mafia brings The godfather into a game, and does it 
 perfectly. 
  
  + 
  Extreme rebuilding of the time when the Mafia ruled the US. Great tunes which is in full Mafia 
 and 1930 style. Fantastic difficulty. The game is huge with 20 chapters. The history will blow 
 your mind. 
  
  - 
  The tunes can repeat itself to often. The game contains much driving and can become to boring to 
 be honest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 11, 2005 2:39 pm PT
Review:  If one were to say that Mafia were the Grand Theft Auto series set in the 1930s, theyd only be 
 hitting the tip of the iceberg with just what this game is about. Illusion Softworks, developer 
 of Mafia, gave the player the chance to live the life of a mobster back in the 1930s in a large 
 city called Lost Heaven. Making everything realistic of its time, the player has the chance of 
 succeeding in a close-nit mob family known as the Salieris. Throughout an intense and ever twisting 
 plotline, youll soon find yourself guessing everyones intentions in the all out struggle to rule 
 the streets of Lost Heaven. With the long enriching storyline, the difficulty of the game itself, 
 and the ability to free ride after the game is completed, Mafia gives any player hours of entertainment 
 with not only great music and voice acting, but a realistic feel to the era known as the 1930s.
 
  
  Throughout the games twenty segmented levels, youll start as a lowly taxi driver and soon youll 
 work your way up the Salieri mob family as you help the top man himself get rid of his adversaries. 
 But it wont be easy. Because of the games realism, many things that would go unnoticed by other 
 gaming developers was given its spotlight in Mafia. When you go to reload your weapon, you lose 
 the bullets that were left in before reloading. Even though this may not seem like a big deal, 
 after playing other games when firing guns, you learn to appreciate your extra shells and your 
 timing of reloading your gun. Also delving on the realism of the 1930s the developers offer the 
 player many of the classic vehicles of the era. You wont be able to go from 0-60 in 5.2 seconds, 
 but the police will let you know when youre going over forty miles per hour. In Mafia, you must 
 obey the traffic laws unlike other games that may share some comparisons in the genre. If you speed, 
 the police will come and fine you. Dont pull over to receive the ticket and youll be brought 
 to jail instead of just receiving a simple ticket. Run a red light or wave your gun around town 
 and the police will definitely find you and deal with you accordingly. The player, when dealing 
 with the different missions throughout Lost Heaven, has to respect the traffic laws of regular 
 citizens or face the wrath of not only the other mob families, but also the police, a combination 
 that will always end up deadly.
  
  Dont believe that youll be able to just rip through these twenty missions in a day though. Mafia 
 is a considerably hard game in its own right. Because of the time era its set in and the attention 
 to detail by the developers, players will find that certain aspects of the game can be very challenging 
 such as gun battles. You wont be given loads of ammunition and automatics; youll be dealing with 
 guns of the time with limited ammunition that you need to keep track of throughout the missions 
 so you wont ever run out in a gun battle. Because of the realism of the vehicles in Mafia, you 
 wont be able to just jump in a car and drive after someone and think that youll always be able 
 to keep up in a car chase. Because of the slow acceleration of the vehicles in Mafia, car chases 
 have to be handled with care because a simple crash or a corner taken too early can have you reloading 
 the level. But as you progress through the many levels, youll be adding more and more different 
 types of vehicles to your garage around the back of the Salieri bar. Once these vehicles are in 
 your garage, youll learn how to break into them through picking the outside lock and learning 
 how to start up the vehicle. Having this knowledge will help you in a jam when youre downtown 
 and without a ride.
  
  Not every level within Mafia is filled with you just running and blasting everyone in the room. 
 The developers threw some stealth levels into the fray. While the stealth in Mafia isnt quite 
 as dynamic as games like Splinter Cell or Thief, Illusion Softworks gives the player an opportunity 
 at progressing through the missions differently. While youre able to run through these stealth 
 missions waving your gun and blasting anything that moves, its not advised because of how unequipped 
 your character is from the start compared to the guards surrounding you. Also throughout the numerous 
 missions ranging from car chases to stealth takedowns, sometimes youll be given a partner to help 
 you throughout the gun battles. Keeping the partner (s) alive progressing during the level may be 
 more trouble than their added help is though in most cases because if they die, you must restart 
 from your last save. As a bonus to the great single player of Mafia, the developers added what 
 is known as freeride extreme which allows the player to traverse around the city of Lost Heaven 
 without the worry of the police completing different objectives to unlock different cars throughout 
 the city. These objectives range from easy to hard and can be pretty hilarious including running 
 down a man in his underwear who can run extremely fast with his feet on fire. 
  
  While youre not able to save the game wherever you please, the developers split the levels into 
 different sequences to put less pressure and frustration on the player. Within the twenty missions 
 of the game, there are around 100 save spots that are split by cutscenes that illustrate the engrossing 
 story that youll be apart of from start to finish. These cutscenes are presented to the player 
 using the in-game engine developed for the game. The game engine for Mafia is very well put together 
 giving realism to, not only the cars and objects in the game, but the overall atmosphere that only 
 adds to the twisting plotline that surfaces throughout the games levels. A lot of detail was placed 
 in every aspect of this game. Some of this detail may deter the player from the actual gameplay. 
 Within the twenty levels, youll have to do a lot of driving to either pick up someone, go kill 
 someone, or many of the other objectives that youre given, and at the beginning, the driving will 
 be a welcome break from the hard shootout missions, but after a few times of driving across Lost 
 Heaven, the player will probably wish that there was a faster mode of transportation. But, if youre 
 one of those people who enjoy the realism of driving sims, youll definitely enjoy the role that 
 youll play that is being only part of the whole of the massive city.
  
  The music score in Mafia is brilliant. While driving, or within a cutscene inside a bar, youll 
 be subjected to the music of the 1930s. Now, this may not seem like a great thing, those of you 
 who loved the expansive soundtrack of the Grand Theft Auto series which included artists such as 
 Guns n Roses and N. W. A., but those of you who enjoy the musical era of the 1930s like myself, 
 will absolutely love this part of the game. The voice acting done by all the characters of the 
 intense plotline is also brilliant. Every mob voice is crisp and very believable in its entirety. 
 Time was definitely taken on creating the different sounds of each vehicle and its horn, and also 
 the general noise that takes place while walking around the streets of Lost Heaven.
  
  In the end, with its ever-twisting engrossing storyline and the freeride extreme bonus game thats 
 provided after completing the game, Mafia is a game that can provide a player with hours of entertainment 
 in the extremely detailed era of the 1930s. Soon youll find yourself listening to jazz music, 
 smoking cigars, and accelerating a little slower in your everyday activities. Mafia is a game that 
 can be recommended to many players including those who loved the Grand Theft Auto series. Just 
 dont ever believe or think that Mafia is cheap rip-off of the GTA series set in the 1930s.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: andremafia
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 12, 2005 1:15 am PT
Review:  Story: This game story is one of the best I've played, you start as a Taxi Driver on your night 
 break, then you hear a car crash then two Mafiosos run at you and point you a gun to your head, 
 they say you to drive away from another car full of Mafiosos trying to kill your new "friends", 
 when they lose your tail you have to drive the two Mafiosos to their Bar, they go inside to talk 
 with the don about your help, one Mafioso returns and hands your a lot of cash saying that the 
 Don is very pleased with your help and he offers you a job at the Mafia, you say that you will 
 think about it. Next day Two Mafiosos try to kill you and you have to run to the Bar to ask for 
 help. Then you enter the family, your next missions will help you increase your rank in the family....
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are very good for 2002, there are some nice effects and details, the city 
 life is very well shown as you can see people talking to each other, people driving to work, etc....
 
  
  Sound: There are very good musics, real music from the 30's! Only good stuff.
  
  Tilt: I loved playing this game, it is one of my favourites of all time. The story was great and 
 I really felt that I was a part of the game story. The game has very cool missions and all of them 
 are completely different. 
  
  This a very good game, a must-have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowbarG
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 6, 2005 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Mafia is a really great game there is a lot of replay value! and the graphics and sound are really 
 amazing!
  
  The story also is very good and some of the cut scenes are almost film like.
  the voice acting 
  
  BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! 
 BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! 
 BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! 
 BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! 
 BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! 
 BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! 
 BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! 
 BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! 
 BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolksWagen
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2005 2:09 am PT
Review:  Mafia is a great game set in the seedy underworld of the 1930's in a fictional city called Lost 
 Heaven which is like a combination of Chicago and San Fransisco in which you follow Thomas Angelo's 
 life story through a series of flashbacks. 
  
  Storyline:
  This is what 4 star movies are made of. Easily one of the best storylines ever in a game. They 
 even hired professional actors to do the character's voices, which is very obvious because it's 
 done great. Okay, on with the storyline. The game starts off with the beginning credits that looks 
 like what you would see in a movie, after about 5 minutes we cut to a man walking into a restaurant, 
 this of course is Thomas Angelo, the character you'll play throughout the game. In the first of 
 many greatly done cutscenes, we see that Thomas is meeting with a detective because he's willing 
 to exchange information about his years in the Salieri family's mafia for witness protection because 
 The Don wants him dead for reasons that will later be revealed as you play the game.
  
  Graphics:
  Stunning is the only way to describe it. You'll sometimes find yourself stopping what 
 you're doing just to look around at the city. The cars reflect light off of their shiny surface 
 and show scratches and dents very realistically. The cutscenes are what really shows off the games 
 graphics. The detail on almost everything is done beautifully. From the lace on the curtains, to 
 the leather on the seats. 
  
  Gameplay:
  This game never get's boring. Almost every action sequence in Mafia is well done. This game has 
 great realism to it, the cops patrolling the city will fine you if you break a law, like run a 
 red light, break the speed limit, etc. And the cars can run out of gas, so you can drive to a gas 
 station and refill, you'll rarely have to do this. Also, if you shoot at where the gas tank would 
 be located on your car, it will either blow up or cause you to lose gas very quickly. A cool thing 
 in this game is when you're in a gun fight with enemies, they have to pause to reload, too. Which 
 is something you never see in other games. After I beat this game, I decided to start the game 
 again, It's very addicting. It's quite lengthly, too so you won't have to worry about the game 
 being over too quick. I've never timed how long it takes on average to beat, but it's about 15+ 
 hours. The missions really range in difficulty because the very first mission on the game is really 
 quite hard for it being the first and you not being used to the game. But you'll come across the 
 occasional impossible mission that will take you about 30-40+ tries, so occasionally this game 
 get's frustrating at times , but it's worth it to get another cutscene seeing where the story leads 
 next. And I should also mention that when you beat this game you unlock a mode called "Free Ride 
 Extreme" This mode lets you drive around Lost Heaven without any police interference while uncovering 
 19 very weird driving challenges and once you beat it, it unlocks a new vehicle which you generally 
 wouldn't see in the 1930's.
  
  Should you buy this game?:
  
  Buy, definitely, buy. Not to mention, it's only $10.00 now because it's so old (It came out about 
 2 and a half years ago) so geez, how cheap are you?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Don_Alexei
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 29, 2005 9:29 am PT
Review:  After having watched and liked gangster-themed films, I felt I should give this game a try, seeing 
 all the very good reviews about it.
  
  There still hasn't been a game quite like it (for me anyway)
  
  You're Tommy Angelo, in the 
 1930's, a taxi driver in a fictional city called Lost Heaven (resembles Chicago) and one day you 
 pick up two gangsters being pursued by their enemy family, you shake them off and the two gangsters 
 offer you work, you refuse but when the enemy family start trying to beet you up with a baseball 
 bat, you decide that working for them is the only way to defend yourself.
  You gradually get a reputation towards your family in a series of enthralling missions.
  
  
 The game play is simple, with a few cool touches, your character climes, jumps, shots, drives, 
 opens doors (not like in GTA) , picks car locks, and the game uses a Max Payne-type aiming and camera-view 
 mechanic. It's very easy to play.
  The graphics are a bit dated, but not that much considering the time at which the game came out, 
 and they don't miss out on reproducing the 30's era. Clothes (especially those cool hats) and CARS 
 are modeled with great skill.
  
  If you like films like The Godfather, Goodfellas, The Untouchables or Roads to Perdition, this 
 is a game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dazooz
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 25, 2005 9:34 pm PT
Review:  What a great game Mafia is!
  
  I went into this game expecting another FPS with a blah story and repetitive gameplay. I couldn't 
 have been more wrong!
  
  Mafia is nearly a perfect game for me. Great visuals, great gameplay, a variety of missions and 
 goals, a unique system of mixing FPS and driving, but best of all, Mafia takes place in a living 
 city. You can revisit almost every place you have been in the missions. The city just seems realistic! 
 Unique bridges, and tunnels, and areas of town... wow! 
  
  The story in Mafia is even better. How refreshing to have a grown up story with realistic types 
 of missions, feelings and characters. 
  
  I enjoyed this one immensely and suggest if you haven't played it to pick it up 1st chance you 
 get!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gsantor
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 18, 2005 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Mafia is pure Hollywood. Mafia supports and perpetuates all of the stereotypes about gangsters 
 and particularly the Italian Mafia of the 1920s and -30s. You play the fellow with a good heart 
 that fell on bad times and had to turn to a life of crime to get by. This is a simplistic morality 
 play right up to the Hollywood ending. In short, its predicable  very predictable. Its also 
 a lot of fun!
  
  The game is mostly a 3rd-person action-shooter most of the time, but perhaps too often turns into 
 a driving game. There are many classic automobiles that you are invited to liberate from their 
 owners and add to your stable. They handle much like one would expect from a car with spring suspension, 
 a 60-hp motor and spongy, tread-less tires. This makes the game a lot of fun, especially with the 
 reaction of pedestrians and the Keystone Cops that may only give you speeding ticket after running 
 down a dozen people.
  
  The graphics were good for a 2002 release, but suffers a little with some clipping. You can on 
 occasion do a side roll manoeuvre that will roll you right through a wall. Fortunately, this is 
 a rare occurrence and can easily be recovered from. The sound track is exceptional (but Im biased 
 as I used to play drums in a jazz band) with many of the eras classics represented. The sound 
 engineering is another matter as many common sound cards choke on the background music and dialog 
 (i. e. chipmunk sounds) .
  
  The biggest draw-back would be its replay value, in that it has little. However, given that you 
 can now acquire it for about $10, it is a great value. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: heyday10103
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 16, 2005 7:07 am PT
Review:  Mafia is a fun filled "do what the heck you wanna do" type game with the basic idea of a GTA 3 
 game at first glance. When you first play the game you will notice that the game takes place in 
 the 1940's and all the cars are very well modelled and look like they were thoguht out with care, 
 the whole city is totally fictional, but dont let that fool you, if you didnt know it was fictional 
 you would think it were a replication of a real city. May I also add that this game was made before 
 Grand Theft Auto Vice City, and whilst the game is VERY overlooked and unnoticed due to a lack 
 of advertisment, the graphics are simply amazing (not only for its day, but they are, even now, 
 better then any other GTA type game out there today) . The cinimatics are breathe taking as the 
 characters mouth (and every other bone in the face) move, their hands are not blocky, and their 
 eyes (yes i mean the pupils) actually move, this usually happens when the character appears to 
 be thinking. The sound quality is top notch, as guns sound VERY realistic and the voice acting 
 is VERY well done. The story line in Mafia is taken right out of a modster movie, with twists, 
 turns, gun fights, great voice acting and more. The vehicles in the game are simply amazing, even 
 tho they tend to be slow due to the time the game takes place in, the game boasts over 40 real 
 cars from the 1940s, and might I add that EVERY pannel on the car can be bent to your hearts content, 
 bumpers can be shot off, wheels can be shot off it shot in the bolts, tires can be popped, lights 
 can be shot off and out, windows can all be smashes in, frames can be dented to badly that the 
 car is unreconizable, cars blow up only when shot enough in the gas tank, gas tanks leak if shot, 
 cars run out of gas, and much much much more, every car in the city can be hijacked, but instead 
 of every person leaving their vehicle unlocked, the player needs to gain lockpicking experience 
 from his partner, so that he can learn how to pick the lock of parked cars, or get into cars already 
 occupied. The weapon variety is on the weak side, but are very simular to what the modsters would 
 use, they include the tommy gun, sawed off shot gun, pump action shot gun, colt 1911, model 27 
 magnum, knife, and many of small handguns. Did i mention that the graphics are amazing? Now the 
 city in the game is HUGE, and the city is VERY believable and looks like it was built in the 40's. 
 The AI in this game is well done, especially on the police, they will give you tickets for speeding, 
 and if you refuse to pull over you can be arrested, no more of the police shooting you for little 
 things like bumping their car, the police lay spike strips, give tickets, arrests, shoot at you, 
 and much more. The gameplay in this game could be better, but is still well done, the character 
 can be controlled easily along with the cars he steals. The game also allows the player to ride 
 in trollys (first person as well) and in trains (first person as well) , they can move around in 
 the trains and shoot out of the window. This game is a MUST BUY for ANYONE who enjoys mobster flicks, 
 the 1940's, classic cars, or just wants to get a game like GTA but with alot more realism. I would 
 recommend this game to anyone who loves a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason210
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 28, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  One of the few classics that has earned a place in the history of computer games.
  
  The game instantly seduces you with its fantastic graphic detail, which at the time set a new standard 
 for 3D action games. By todays standards (2006) the graphics look a little dated, but the feeling 
 of life in the street scenes still impresses, thanks to superbly animated traffic and pedestrians, 
 and a city which is remarkably well researched and designed, perfectly evoking a city of the prohibition 
 era. You really feel like this is a real place, a real city with its own uptown and downtown areas 
 and seedy quarters. Each part has its own identity. It's very well modelled. The vehicles of the 
 era have been lovingly recreated, complete with clumsy steering, old style blinkers and reflective 
 texture maps, which give the cars an authentic period feel. Everything graphic element of his game 
 is done just right, and it's all well integrated with the sound & music of the era, which is superb. 
 A strong narrative element in the form of some superbly done cut-scenes which makes you feel like 
 youre part of a movie. 
  
  As to the gameplay, it's basically a shooter, with a few puzzles here there to solve; but it's 
 certainly an above-average shooter. The game design is linear, which means that you must do everything 
 in a fixed order, and go through the levels in a conventional way. But thats not to say you cant 
 have some fun along the way! You can choose your route through the city on round on your missions, 
 stop off at petrol station and fill up, and if you're caught speeding it could start a police chase 
 that could end up in a shoot-ouy. Or indeed, you may want to ditch the car and take the train instead. 
 So theres just enough flexibility to give you good sense of freedom.
  
  In addition to the main game, there is a "Free Ride" player option which allows you to drive endlessly 
 around the city collecting taxi fares, killing gangsters and making money to buy weapons. Good 
 fun, but a little pointless and limited. Its a great pity that a multiplayer option wasnt included 
 for this, because it would have kept this game going for longer. Unfortunately, its all over after 
 a few hours.
  
  Its the kind of game that you wish would never end, and when it does end, you wish youd never 
 played it, just so you can play it all over again for the first time! Just like a really good movie, 
 I guess.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vermouth
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 22, 2005 2:39 am PT
Review:  It's a little bit surprising to me that prohibition era America hasn't been the setting for far 
 more video games than it has been but the hey day of the gangster hasn't been the setting for that 
 many games. This is the setting for the PC ActionAdventure game Mafia. After playing Mafia, I'm 
 left with a sense of ambivilance about the whole experience. On the one hand you have some really 
 great graphics and a very good story telling experience that certainly is a cut above the normal 
 stuff but then it has lots of little annoyances that slowly add up to big problems. 
  
  One thing you're gonna notice right off the bat is that the game has some impressive visuals; in 
 fact despite the fact this game is nearly two years old it has some of the best faces i've seen 
 in games in a while. Furthermore it really has a great style that matches the glory days of organized 
 crime theme. Cars all look realistic, guns look just like the real deal, people dress like you'd 
 expect them to. Mafia members walk around in a full suit and tie most every where they go. You'll 
 not see anyone dressed in a t-shirt and jeans that I can recall or something anachronistic. Also 
 the city looks very real with architecture that fits the era and people walking around up to their 
 own bussiness. 
  
  
  The sound in the game really isn't anything you'd call a highlight except the characters are voiced 
 fairly well. Everyone has a voice that sounds just like you'd expect. The Don sounds distinguished, 
 his lawyer sounds like a rat of a lawyer. The Mafia muscle sounds like some big guys and your character 
 has the sound of decency in his voice and pitches very nicely for each situation. Their is also 
 some music that seems fit for the age and all the sound effects sound pretty much like you'd want 
 them to sound. 
  
  This is where the game breaks down as we get away from the technical and move over to talking about 
 gameplay. The gameplay at first seems similar to GTA, you've got a big wide open city and cars 
 that you cand drive about as you please. Unfortunately unlike GTA their really isn't a whole lot 
 you can do around the city in between missions. Furthermore the driving model is also quite boring 
 because most of the cars are realistically modeled. In the 1930's going 35 was considered going 
 fairly fast the speed limit clocks in at 40mph. Driving this speed and making sure to stop for 
 red lights isn't only not fun it's really annoying. If you break either of these basic traffic 
 laws the police will try to pull you over in my estimation a case of too much realism for the games 
 own good. 
  
  So since the free-roaming part of the game isn't very good you're gonna be spending a bunch of 
 time doing missions. Nothing wrong with that, if the missions are really good the game will be 
 really good. The missions are a mixed bag with some moments and missions that are really awesome 
 and some that are nothing short of extremely frustrating. You take damage fairly realistically, 
 a shotgun blast will often kill you in a single shot, a few bullets or a baseball bat to the head 
 and it's curtains for you. You don't have a lot of dodge moves at your disposal and the few you 
 have are a bit on the cumbersome side to use. You're not gonna be packing a lot of firepower on 
 most missions. Very often you'll start with a baseball bat and a pistol and be expected to pick 
 the rest of it up along the way. This can lead to situations where you're seriously out gunned 
 quite often and make some missions more frustratiing than they should be. Some of the other missions 
 ttry for variety including an extremely difficult racing mission and a stealth mission where the 
 security is very well armed and you are not and have to guard another guy coming into a mansion 
 with you. 
  
  One of the real highlights to this game which keeps you playing despite the annoying missions however 
 is the very good story. You start the game a cab driver barely getting by in the depression then 
 you rise through the ranks of the mob working with the don to do various jobs. Along the way you'll 
 fall in love, let some hit victims escape from the city and keep fighting the police and the rival 
 criminal syndicate. This is really good crime fiction that goes well with any of the works of Mario 
 Puzo. 
  
  Is Mafia worth the money? Well maybe the story is very good and I'm glad to have seen it but the 
 gameplay really could have been a lot better. It has several missions that are extremely frustratingly 
 designed. In every area however the game is competent enough that if you like narrative as a big 
 part of your game experience then this one is worth the relatively low cost of entry, so if you 
 find it for 10-15 bucks it might be worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 28, 2005 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are superb in this game, much better than Grand Theft Auto. Characters are amazingly done, 
 the best Ive seen so far. Cars are extremely well modeled which can be deformed in numerous ways, 
 though they are 50's cars, so don't expect Mafia to have anything you would see as cool (unless 
 you like the old time cars of course) . Cutscenes are also amazingly well done, and there are many 
 of them which show the story unfold. 
  
  Sound is equally as well, though you might not like it since it's 50's music. It really makes Mafia 
 feel more alive, and some of the music really isn't that bad to listen too. Unfortunantly, Mafia 
 doesn't feature different radio stations as Grand Theft Auto did, but you'll usually be doing something 
 anyways so it really doesn't matter that much. 
  
  Gameplay follows the string of amazing things this game offers. There isn't a great selection of 
 guns/weapons but there's enough to make this game fun (It's hard not to have fun when you get to 
 use Thompson's...) . Driving is ALOT different from Grand Theft Auto, and will take a little bit 
 of getting used to. Cars, as they should, are not fast and are not powerful; nor do they always 
 start when you turn them on. 
  
  Mafia offers alot that anyone who enjoys FPS's will enjoy. The game looks similar to Grand Theft 
 Auto, but plays much different, and in my opinion, much better. I've seen various prices for this 
 game, but I found my copy for 10 bucks, which is an amazing price for such a good game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: huss2215
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 16, 2006 4:29 pm PT
Review:  A day in the life of an Itailian Mafia lead by Don Saleira, in a territory war with Don Marello, 
 your set out to do the dirty work as u play as a taxi driver named Tommy then you get upgraded 
 to being the top leading hitman mafioso you were born to be. This game features many missions based 
 on a real mafioso job. THe gamplay is solid, very good. With car jacking and variety of weapons 
 nothing would be wrong with the gameplay only the fact that when you are trying to kill the enemy 
 it may agracate you because how much the crosshair moves up, even though that might be real it 
 still makes the game a little less fun like the GTA series would be. That is still nothing to really 
 be worried about though. Now the graphics are simply amazing, real time shadows, real life faces, 
 and real environment look. Great gun sounds, realistic car noises, nice 30's music. Very well worth 
 it so overall its lived up to a true mafioso game that it's supposed to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FUBUSH
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2005 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 3 has been the defining game of its genre. Since then there have been many other 
 games such as The Getaway and True Crime that try to have used the same formula GTA 3 had used 
 to be the great gameplay experience that GTA 3 was. And where others had failed, Mafia had prospered. 
 This is a superb game worthy of being compared to GTA, but if Mafia had an online component, it 
 might have been revolutionary. Mafia could have had a multiplayer deathmatch, coop mode, mulitplayer 
 Free Ride, etc.. But don't get me wrong, this is still a great game without out those features.
 
  
  Mafia is a mobster game set in the 30s where you stumble into the crime world. Although you do 
 pretty well and gain respect, eventually you're put into a situation where you have to get out 
 of it (in one piece of course.) Mafia has a great storyline thats backed up by superb voice acting 
 from memorable characters. You'll also have many memorable moments from the 20 missions that include 
 intense firefight, car chases, and some unique objectives. The graphics are pretty awesome and 
 it holds a smooth framerate even on my crappy video card. The city in which you play in is pretty 
 large, 12 square miles, and its many locales look amazing and unique. The game also has has a good 
 amount of countryside which has some realistic ambient noises. Mafia also has that 30's style music 
 that the game atmosphere.
  
  And when you're done with story mode, there's another mode called Free Ride. In Free Ride, you 
 can choose a variety of options, such as what car you choose (from about 60 or so cars) , traffic 
 density, police density, your starting location, etc.. In Free Ride, you can pretty much do whatever 
 you want, if there's no cops nearby of course. And some tasks can earn you money which you can 
 use to buy health and guns. And the Free Riide expansion you can download off DLX only expands 
 the posibilities.
  
  There's also Free Ride Extreme which gives you 19 weird, annoying, and fn missions where you can 
 unlock the unique cars in the game. Although some of these missions are easy, others are almost 
 impossible and require not only skill, but luck as well.
  
  Although I wish the developers at Illusion Studios had included some online features this is still 
 a great game that you shouldn't pass up. Because if you don't play it, you'll regret it for the 
 rest of your life...
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  ... by that I mean I'll be chucking change at your head for the rest off your life for not doing 
 so.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: toocooldragon
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 20, 2005 6:28 am PT
Review:  first of all this game rocks, it has almost everything you see from mafia movies, although it borrows 
 heavily on GTA, some part are realistic enough to surpass it, it even has its own style of buttons 
 and special features.
  This game offers many features such as a car encyclopedia, a free ride mode where you can do anything 
 you please, and a even special mode you unlock once you complete the game, the game is based on 
 realism, so its no suprise you have to follow traffic orders, obey the law, once broken the police 
 will start from giving you tickets to call up backup. The parked cars are also locked so that means 
 you have to pick the locks without getting caught.
  the sound is should we say, 1930s era,
  the graphics are a bit blocky but never the less the eyes of the main character sort of brings 
 life to the character. the physics engine for the cars are also spectacular, the metal steel cover 
 of the automobile shines as you turn a lane and it dents when you strike a bat on it. but no rag 
 doll physics here. too bad.
  the gameplay varies in different types of missions, from car chases to robbing a rich guys heavily 
 guarded house. My complaints is that you cant drag bodies. 
  Some parts are glitchy like the character can do a side roll and instantly reload his ammo.
  
 overall this game is a must buy- must try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 4, 2004 12:54 am PT
Review:  Most games that try to clone the GTA formula, and fail miserably. Some do it well. And a few take 
 it and really refine it to make something great. I can honestly say that Mafia falls into that 
 last category. 
  
  Mafia is about Tommy Angelo, a cabbie in the city that is trying to make it on the straight an 
 narrow when two guys, Paulie and Sam jump into your cab telling you nothing more than to get away 
 from the car that is tailing them. This begins your decent into the world of the Italian Mafia. 
 From here, you will participate in a well detailed storyline that puts you into the day to day 
 life of a mafioso. You will perform hits, liquor deals, thefts among other things. 
  
  I have to say that the missions were top notch and the story is well written. The voice acting 
 is absolutely superb. No one slouched on the voice overs here. The graphics were phenominal. The 
 details in the faces and so forth was amazing. I can't begin to say enough about this game. 
  
  As for a complaints, the game was a bit buggy at first, but played well after applying the 
 patch. Also, for some who are used to the speediness of the cars in GTA, they will be disappointed 
 here at first. First off, the cars are based in circa 1930, so you are lucky if they go 30+ MPH. 
 Also, you do actually have to obey traffic laws, because the cops will ticket you if you run red 
 lights or speed. I thought that added to the realism of the game, while I am sure it detracted 
 to others.
  
  Overall, the game is absolutely stunning and you will not regret playing this game. I would recommend 
 playing it on the PC as I have heard that the console ports are bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JereStarsJ
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 7, 2004 1:14 am PT
Review:  This game is probably one of the best games that I have ever played. It has a great story behind 
 this game. One of the most realistic action games that you will ever see. This game has everything 
 a great game has. It has very long gameplay. It has some of the great graphics. Some of the best 
 music you will hear. Also now the game cost only around $14.99. That is some great value. The story 
 is very interesting. In my opinion this game is way better than Grand Theft Auto series. You will 
 able to have around 40 hours of gameplay so that should be great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EqualPlatinum
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 30, 2004 11:14 pm PT
Review:  Greg said what had to be said about this game in the video review. Its not a clone but it dose 
 include alot of good aspects from other games. Nice polish, and no tech problems that I could find. 
 Now that all three gta games from the ps2 have come out Mafia has proven that it can still shine 
 after its age begins to show. I wish for a sequel but I think it would also be appropreate to just 
 have this game stand on its own as a great independent piece of art that anyone would likes action, 
 or games set in real life/history, or those who are interested in gang/mafia contect are sure to 
 like. It is a superv game, I love it, you should play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhreddiesDead
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2004 5:01 pm PT
Review:  In this brilliant work of art, you play the role of Tommy Angelo- a taxi driver helping two men 
 who will soon be his best friends in this bloody world of underworld- who works for the Salieri 
 Family run by The 'Don' DOn Salieri. You fight wit hother people in this war between another mafia 
 boss named Morello. You fight with weapons like the Tohmpson Sub Machine gun AKA 'TOmmy Gun', pump 
 action shotguns, sawn of shotguns, Springfileds, Smith and Wessons, colts, and more. A must buy 
 for those who like these kind of games. 
  
  
  PS: The Xbox version is faster and are about the same. The PS2 version is the worst. The Xbox and 
 PS2 have a little badder graphics than the PC version but that's about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rattlesnake_8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2004 2:33 am PT
Review:  .. to have a break. The story is amazing, one of the best seen in an action game. The game is similar 
 to GTA in how your put into a large city, can steal cars etc. Although there are a lot of differences. 
 The first thing you'll notice is it's set in the 1930's.. which means you drive 1930's cars, you 
 get Tommy Guns and the entire world does look at feel accurrate. The level of detail is stunning. 
 In an early mission where you trash 3 cars, you can actually see the dents and scratches you made 
 with the baseball bat! (I don't know why they changed it in the patch though..)
  
  There are a variety of missions, ranging from assasination, to extortion to blowing something up 
 to car chases to.... there are a lot of different missions in the game. Mafia is a great game that 
 grabs you and puts into the game world and leaves you very happy. I've found myself numerous times 
 saying "just one more mission, then i'll go to bed". 
  
  Im not a big fan of 3rd person shooters, but this game is one of the best i've played in a long 
 time. Gets my vote for Best Action Game Ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dierk467
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 29, 2004 1:15 am PT
Review:  Ok i heard this game from my friend and he said its really good so i got this game in 2004 and 
 guess what its has great features. the graphics of this game is kind of better than gta 3 and its 
 realistic game. the sounds are alright since it took place in virtual chicago, Lost Heaven in 1930s. 
 the story is really good but really hard. the city is 2x larger than grand theft auto 3 and you 
 get most of 1930's weapons such as colt 1911, the favorite weapon that has been in most of mafia 
 movies, Thompson aka tommy gun and many other weapons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martlume
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 20, 2004 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Mafia is a game of doing similar dirty jobs as in GTA, except that it is set in the 1930s with 
 some amazing made-up old cars and a bigger city that even has its own train system. Despite its 
 principal likeness to GTA, Mafia is an opposite game in many ways: the story of a cab-driver becoming 
 a major player in the mob is great but altogether very linear, there is no reason to roam around 
 the city in free time like in GTA (there is a special mode for that called Free Ride) . Secondly, 
 some things are so realistic that they might eventually become annoying: old cars that do not go 
 too fast, policemen that pull you over for speeding and running red lights and attack you when 
 they see a gun (and big guns cannot be hidden) . A lot of the realism is good too: you can see exact 
 marks for every bullet, you can pop off individual car windows and tires that influence driving 
 accordingly, etc. Thirdly, Mafia suffers from scripted events: for example, you can not crash a 
 guy's car because he has to drive to a barn where you are supposed to have a shootout and then 
 kill him. The same problem annoys especially at the final shootout, which is a lot of work... On 
 the positive side, although you do not get to use too many weapons, gunfights are as intense as 
 in Max Payne and the story as well as the shootout settings are very impressive. As already mentioned, 
 Mafia has a free-form game too, which is full of funny unrealistic missions: in the first one you're 
 meant to chase a man who runs in underwear 50 mpH and has flaming feet, and it only goes worse 
 after that :) ; it is sad that the part is not incorporated in the main game.
  
  20/20 - Based on : 25 HOURS
  4/4 PRODUCTION VALUES - Fantastically beautiful game - autumn leaves, 
 old cars, 1930s soundtrack - I'd say even prettier than GTA.
  4/4 ACCESSIBILITY - You are taught well how to play.
  4/4 PACING - Shoot-outs might get little 
 too numbersome occasionally, but it's mostly to raise the challenge. You are not likely to get 
 bored on any of the 20 missions.
  4/4 INNOVATION - While seemingly looking like GTA set in thirties with influences of Italian mafia 
 legends, there's plenty of gameplay innovation which actually makes Mafia very different.
  4/4 IMMERSION - There's a strong narrative to Mafia which you will remember like a film. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BentSea
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 17, 2004 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Mafia is nothing short of one of the most beautifuly crafted, lovingly animated, atmospheric, living 
 breathing worlds I have had the pleasure to game in. I have never disliked a game quite like this. 
 Everything is there... wonderful story, excellent voice acting, action packed gunfights, intense 
 moments and much much more. That is why I have such a hard time with my not liking it, by all means 
 I should love it. The problem that I believe will turn most people off is the unusualy difficult 
 gamplay.
  
  I cannot stress how much there is to like about this game. Sprays of bullets will leave individual 
 bullet holes in cars that are different every time, chip of wood from doors, and ricochett off 
 of concrete. The feel that you are in the early to mid 1900's is achieved marvelously. Police will 
 pull you over and tell you "Driver, you've broken the law. I'll have to fine you. I hope it wont 
 happen again. The streets are alive, and the music is jazzy. The sky is amazingly animated, the 
 sunsets are beautiful, the bright cloudless days leave you feeling like driving around, and the 
 dark rainy ones will motivate you to get done and go back. The environment is far from random and 
 will only change between mission, and has enough of an effect on gameplay that it is one of the 
 more noticeable story telling devices of which there are so many I couldn't count. Alot of them 
 I could've lived without. You are never totaly free within the environment, only the areas that 
 you need to travel though are available at any given time (the illusion of freedom comes from how 
 large most of these are) . Here is the inevitable comparison to Grand Theft Auto, there is none. 
 All the potential is there, but there is something that you can attribute to alot of small things 
 that makes the frequent rampages of GTA3 totally out of place. Personaly, I blame it on the insane 
 police force. If you so much as speed in their view they'll chase you down at speeds that you couldn't 
 achieve in their own cars if you stole them. That is the most unfair feature is the difficulty 
 that the police will give you, and that is a serious problem considering how much of the game is 
 spent driving a large distance to and from missions and you HAVE to do it at the speed limit without 
 ever flashing a gun or the police will get you and you will be forced to start all over again. 
 The chief problem with this game is that you could easily avoid any problems if you could force 
 youself to obey the law which you will find nearly impossible.
  
  The missions, once you get to them, are often intense and fun. Frequent gunfights that leave you 
 with the feeling that you're in a mob movie. A short gunfight in a church, a running gunfight in 
 a parking garage, and huge freedoms within the environments. You will have the pleasure of walking 
 into beautiful hotels and museums and spraying stray bullets knocking paintings off of walls, breaking 
 panes in glass doors, setting fire to the landscape, blowing up cars all willy nilly. I cannot 
 say how much these gunfights make up for the lack of freedom in the outside world, they are that 
 fun. The only other problem with the missions, is that you can only autosave and those points are 
 a little too few and far between. Great frustration will come when you put 15 minutes of work into 
 doing something, stealing a car on the far side of town, driving the speed limit back, then on 
 the way to your destination an officer pulls you over and tickets you, but as you get into the 
 car you forgot that you never picked the lock when you jacked it. The police will arrest you or 
 hurt you bad in a gun fight before the mission starts. All without a save, you will either have 
 to restart if they got you or want to if you took any damage, and mind this actualy example of 
 something that happened to me was already after a gunfight in the mission that I had to replay 
 six times because there was no health to be found before or during the gunfight I was on my way 
 to. Special note goes to one mission where you race in on an official track that was so difficult 
 that it took me four days of hard work to bring my skill high enough to beat... this race is riddled 
 with opponents with the difficulty you would expect in a game designed to race cars in, as well 
 as countless oportunities to die instantly by rolling your topless car and breaking your neck.
 
  
  All of the tediums, and difficulties, and the racing mission (hat although very fun was of a difficulty 
 that far exceeded any reasonable measure) combine to make a game that is not all together worth 
 finishing. Worse and ending that is leaves you with the overall feelling, "Why did I play this 
 game?". When you lump everything together, the good, the bad, the ugly, you have a game that can 
 provide upwards 40 hours of rewarding gameplay that stand out against the 20 some hours that will 
 be much less so. This is no classic, but it has alot to offer. Remember if you go to buy it that's 
 Mafia, spelled M-a-f-i-a, not G-r-a-n-d T-h-e-f-t A-u-t-o. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sorte
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 17, 2004 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Mafia is a good game. You game as tommy, a man who have been a taxi driver, but a night he help 
 some mafia people. He need monny, and he get a offer from the mafia. They need him. The nest day, 
 some mafia peaple from another gang. They will kill him, becuase he help out some saliali people. 
 Then he join saliali gang.
  
  
  The game is very good, better than GTA. There are more history in mafia, and the missions are better. 
 GTA3 have more missions, but they can be borings. The graphics is better, and the sound Too!!!. 
 
  
  Buy this game, if you need car hunting, and action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gumpo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2004 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Mafia came out just a bit before GTA Vice City, and it totally demolished it in graphics, gameplay, 
 everything. Now im not saying GTA was a bad game, it was fun for me for quite some time, but i 
 just feel that mafia was put together much better on the whole, and ultimately resulted in a much 
 better game experience.
  
  Set in the early days of the italian mobs of america, late 20's & early 30's, Mafia really makes 
 you feel like your in that time period thats been gone for so many decades. The graphics are exceptional, 
 with high texture quality and excellent models. Most of the animations are excellent, only a few 
 rough edged moves made it into the game. The view distance is incredible, and the detail in the 
 old fashioned cars and buildings is just almost too intricate. The music playing on the radio is 
 also a nice touch, and sounds very authentic, thus adding even more to the great environment.
 
  
  The story pans out following your adventures as a mob man, and you get to steal cars, assasinate 
 people, rob buildings, just about the usual fare for a mobster. Stealing cars is a skill that you 
 acquire throughout the game - your taught how to break the locks of certain cars by your mechanic, 
 so as you progress through the game you become more knowledgeable. You have your choice to follow 
 the plot or to avoid it, but it is a lot more evident that a plot exists in Mafia than in GTA - 
 your almost always on a mission. And dont fret, there are plenty of side missions to embark on 
 as well.
  
  Another big plus to Mafia is that all the cars handle and generally feel like 30's era cars - slow 
 and clunky. Oooh, a high speed chase at 30mph! There are all types of cars, including some really 
 hot roadsters and coupes, and your normal mafia sedans.
  
  All in all, the great story, excellent graphics, great environment, and non linear gameplay, all 
 add up to one hell of a game thats worth any real gamer's time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr0wnage_PhD
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2004 3:41 pm PT
Review:  All I can say is that it was definitely worth the price of admission. Being a big fan of mafia 
 movies doesn't hurt, of course, but even someone who doesn't have a thing for them can still get 
 plenty of enjoyment out of this game. The shootout in the church was just plain classic. Mafia 
 was a joy to play, and whole people compare it to GTA3 they are very different, Mafia is built 
 around an incredible story the best ever in any action game made. The story rivals big time movies 
 like Goodfellas and The Godfather. 
  
  Graphics at the time of release are nothing less than perfect. Great draw distance and little details 
 all around the city. Character models are perfect. People who have played the crappy console versions 
 shouldnt be discouraged as the PC version is 100 times better in every imaginable aspect of the 
 game.
  
  The music in Mafia is supurb you have everything from old time 40's music to a great modern rap 
 song that closes out the game. The sound effects in the game are great as well including weapon 
 effects and the bustling sounds of the city.
  
  Gameplay is nothing less than perfect including on foot action and driving. The city is real so 
 you need to stop at red lights and obey spped limits especially when a cop is near. This can lead 
 to full blown out car chases which are some of the best ever in a game.
  
  Any self respecting gamer should have Mafia (PC) in their library of games as it has such an increbile 
 immersive story and some of the best gameplay you will ever find in an action game. You will be 
 hard pressed to find an action game that comes anywhere near the level of perfection that Mafia 
 has set. Get this game now. Especially that you can find it for $10 now at certain stores in jewel 
 case packaging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whateve_r
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 1, 2004 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Nothing short of a master piece is what this game can be described in. When i first bought this 
 game, the only idea i had was that this is going to be a GTA style game.
  
  But after a few missions i was now sure that this game is one of the best games i have played so 
 far. The story will absorb you so much into it that it might actually want for more after every 
 level. Each particular level is different from the other, this is what makes the game unique.
 
  
  The sound is just amazing, it changes according to the situation you are in and makes the level 
 more ralistic and surely makes you feel that you are in a mafia movie. From whore houses to church 
 to villa is where you are going to have your fights. Each level brings a new theme and the gameplay 
 does not get repetative.
  
  The story is nothing but a master piece [ iam sorry, i am not giving anything out ] . This game 
 is must buy for every gamer.
  
  
  I rate it a 10/10.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheetah_TM
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 30, 2004 9:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. It has one of the best game plots, if not the best. The game's shootouts 
 are extrelmeey funand addictive. the graphics breathtaking. The game driving isn't all that fun, 
 but it does't really matter. All the missions are different fro each other. The thing that keeps 
 you going in thios game is the story. You'll always wan to know what happens next. The games jazz 
 music goes well with the atmosphere. Don't expect this to be like GTA though. Drivivng around isn't 
 fun. Mainly because the cars are slow (they have a hard time climbing hils) , you need to have a 
 speed limit of 40mph, and it's not easy to ditch the cops like in GTA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epicsoldier
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2004 10:09 pm PT
Review:  There will NEVER be another game like this, this was the best game EVER i have played. The story 
 is so deep it'll keep you playing and playing, The graphics are good, the city is huge and there 
 isn't much loading. I seriously mean that the story is so deep and the character is so good that 
 people who don't like these kinds of games would still wanna play it, it's the best game ever. 
 THe sounds and music a done to perfection. The ending of the game is great!. After you beat it 
 you open up what is called "extreme ride" and you're given even more things to do!. It's a gaming 
 masterpeice! but it's missing multiplayer, which would have made the game 10X better then it already 
 is! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big-Dog
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 24, 2004 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Mafia is possibly the best story driven 3rd person shooter ever. If you think this is GTA in the 
 1930's - you're wrong.
  
  The world of Mafia is rich with atmosphere and emotion - each mission you're sent on builds up 
 the plot and characters better than the majority of current Hollywood movies. Time actually passes 
 throughout the game and this is reflected in the clothes, cars and weapons available.
  
  The sound is breaktaking - extremely well done voice acting from all characters and fantastic weapon 
 and car sounds.
  
  The missions are varied and interesting; ranging from walking a barman's daughter home to robbing 
 a bank. Some of the missions and set-peices borrow directly from classic Gangster flicks such as 
 the God-father.
  
  Amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alec-Eiffel
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 9, 2004 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Much like the GTA fame, Mafia introduces fairly seamless environments tied in with an incredibly 
 riveting story. Everything about the game is phenomenal, while not perfect. The sound however, 
 is truly impeccable and immersive. The gun play is a plus, but its story tightly wraps the entire 
 game into a nice, kickass package. It's a must have for action and mob fans alike. The conclusion 
 is rather depressing, and can some times (for some people) burn the game to the ground, because 
 it's not the usual "the good guys win with no consequences" fair, but it's amazing none the less. 
 Simply an amazing game, and defintely one of the best this generation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocbarry
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 10, 2004 5:41 pm PT
Review:  I'm not really known as a PC gamer, but i am stationed on the other side of the country without 
 my consoles with only my laptop to keep me company. a few weeks ago, i bought Mafia at Walmart 
 for $9.99. Let me tell you, if the game was $39.99, it would still be worth it. Many reviews of 
 this game refer to it as a GTA-1930's. On the surface, one may think that, but it is not even close 
 to the truth. To defend GTA, the driving portions of Mafia don't even come close to comparing. 
 The cars are slow and handle very poorly, but they are only in the game to further the story along. 
 The story is where this game really shines. You get sucked into the mafia by two men who need a 
 ride while they are being chased by rival gang members. You further your life of crime by performing 
 various tasks for the Salieri family.
  Not to write a lot more, this game is worth every penny. Top notch graphics, a great story, and 
 a great price.
  Buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReBuKe2991
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 11, 2004 9:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is swizeet!!!! It starts out with a cinema scene of you after you were in the mafia. 
 You're explaining you're story to a cop. But, you make him a deal, you want the cop to protect 
 your family but you don't want him to put you in jail. He agrees. The whole game is your story 
 as your telling it to the cop. 
  
  The mafia needs a driver so you take the job and they realize you can do more than that. That's 
 all I'm gonna tell you about the story.
  
  If you hate third person shooters. Never play this game because it is a pure third person game. 
 Probably, the best third person game I've ever played (besides Splinter Cell) . There are plenty 
 of weapons but keep in mind that this is the thirties so they're not very futuristic. The only 
 problem with the weapon system is that you can never choose what weapons you get before a mission. 
 The mafia's "weapons guy" gives you the ones he thinks you'd be better off with.
  
  This is very action-packed. Most missions have you driving a car during a chase or shooting 50 
 guys just so you can get your stolen imported whiskey.
  Overall, this is a solid game that I would recommend to any third person lover.
  Actually, when 
 I think about this game is basically Grand Theft Auto: Vice City. It's in third person. You drive 
 cars a lot. It's bloody and it has suggestive themes. The only difference between this and Grand 
 Theft Auto is that I'd say rand Theft Auto is 70% based on cars and driving and 30% based on shooting 
 and stuff. Mafia is probably 60% based on shooting and 40% based on cars and driving. Although 
 a lot of the game (about every mission) , you have to drive somewhere. This is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2004 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Mafia is a great game. It looks beautiful, it has incredible style, and a fantastic story. Its 
 gun battles are thrilling, even though they sometimes get really frustrating. It's too bad that 
 there is no difficulty slider for this game, because it can be extremely hard. 
  
  This game is one of the most immersive and authentic games I have ever played. The soundtrack is 
 great, and so are the graphics. All of the 1930s-style scenery and automobiles make you forget 
 that you are actually playing a video game at your computer. This is one of the most beautiful 
 games that I have ever seen.
  
  "Mafia" is loaded with intense action scenes, especially shootouts. The shootouts are lots of fun 
 (but unfortunately frustrating as hell too) . The weapons are realistic for their era, which means 
 that they are inaccurate pieces of crap. Especially the Tommy Gun, which has a huge kick to it 
 and is impossible to hit anyone more than 15 feet away with. Gunfights are very hard and require 
 you to use all of the tricks that you have learned while playing shooters. You have to use cover 
 to reload your weapons and never stay out in the open for too long.
  
  The storyline for this game might be the best part. This has at least my favorite game story since 
 "Anachronox". You play as Tommy Angelo, a somewhat reluctant member of the Mafia who has to make 
 some really tough choices. Mafia is an epic that covers Tommy's humble beginnings, through an entire 
 decade of Prohibition and Depressions.
  
  But as I said before, this game is hard. REALLY hard. This is thanks to the old-fashioned cars, 
 which handle like elephants, and the inaccurate weapons. Add on top of that the checkpoint save 
 system, which is extremely draconian. I had to replay some missions more than 15 times to finally 
 beat them. One or two missions in this game just really, really suck because of this. Especially 
 the infamous racing level, which almost cost me a mouse.
  
  Mafia is a combination of action, atmosphere, and storyline that makes it unlike any game ever 
 made. This is a must-have if you like shooters. Just make sure to take that blood pressure medication 
 beforehand.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elkdog
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 27, 2003 1:49 am PT
Review:  This game was pretty fun. I enjoyed the story and most of the missions. I wish the cops were more 
 realistic though. You can run a red light and they will pull you over, but if you just drive on 
 the sidewalk and bypass the red light they don't pull you over. There's a lot of things like that 
 that don't make much sense. I liked all the characters you meet along the way. The racing mission 
 was hard, but it was hardly impossble. If you get used to the way the cars drive in Mafia you can 
 easily beat the racing mission. I found smashing the other cars off the road then driving safely 
 to be a good tactic. The other mission that was tough was the one that takes place in the parking 
 garage. I died on that one on the demo many times and when I got the retail game I died many times 
 as well. Most of the missions were fun, but some were kind of boring like the tasks Bertone makes 
 you go on for new cars. Those usually involved driving to one side of the city then going all the 
 way back to the other side. I don't like when missions seem to be put in games to make the game 
 longer. The fun missions totally outweigh the bad ones to make for a good game. Check this one 
 out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poblasai
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2003 6:39 am PT
Review:  Don't buy this game thinking it's going to be GTA: The Bootleg Era. It's much more realistic in 
 every sense than GTA and is entirely story driven. In fact the only similarity it shares with GTA 
 is that you drive yourself through a large city to most of your missions and more often than not 
 end up violently dealing with your opponents, whom are never innocent civilians. It is also a satisfyingly 
 long game that is fairly challenging. It's only flaw is the rediculously hard racing mission in 
 begining of the game, which is almost impossible to beat without cheats or a quality racing wheel 
 and a bunch of talent. Ultimately Mafia is the best realistic representation of gangster life ever 
 put to game. If that sounds entertaining to you, BUY IT! You will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoystikJoe
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 18, 2003 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Mafia is an awesome game in every respect. It is like a combination of Max Payne and Grand Theft 
 Auto rolled into one. I haven't been this satisfied by any other game in years... and I've been 
 playing games since the Atari 2600 came out. We've come a long way, baby! Mafia sets a new standard 
 for PC action games. The graphics are unbelievably vivid and sharp. The music sets the tone for 
 the story, and the voice acting is second to none. Every mission draws you deeper into the game, 
 and it is very difficult to stop playing, because you just want to see what happens next. I could 
 go on and on about how much I enjoy Mafia, but the only way you can really appreciate it is to 
 play it. My most favorite mission was at the racetrack. It felt so good to win (after numerous 
 attempts) ! On my Pentium 4 1.7GB, 640MB RAM, and a Nvidia GeForce4 Ti 4200 graphics card, the frame 
 rate is smooth, the game runs without hesitation, and there are no choppy graphics. 
  If you want a great game, get Mafia!!!!!!!! Mafia Rules!!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: azrael
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 25, 2003 10:26 am PT
Review:  "Fuhgedaboutit!". Mafia is one of those games that was plagued by setbacks, coming out when games 
 of the same nature were already out and selling big, and developed by a small European house, Illusion 
 Softworks, that no one has ever heard of, and to top it off, almost no pre-release hype whatsoever. 
 This spells "bargin bin" for retailers, not giving it much of a chance to do well, if anything. 
 One word comes to mind when thinking about this. Half-Life. This game is simply, great. Coming 
 straight out of left field, Mafia is ready to take the gaming world by storm, with great story, 
 writting, sound, and visuals.
  
  
  Mafia is, you guessed it, a game about gansters. Taking place in the 1930's, you play the role 
 of Tommy Angelo, a taxi driver, who is somewhat down on his luck. Working from dusk to dawn, he 
 tries to make an honest living with his fares, which isn't going to well. One night he gets a couple 
 of customers who aren't exactly saints, forcing Tommy to give them a ride back home, while being 
 chased by other "buisness men". Push comes to shove, and before you know it, you're in a ride of 
 your life, literally. You begin the game in this fashion, and you are blown away from the start. 
 The city you are in, is a huge one. You'll get lost at first, while driving frantically through 
 the streets, trying save your own hide. If you live, you'll go on to a new life. One that starts 
 with you becoming a ganster. From here, you'll make new friends within the family, run by Don Salieri. 
 The game is broken down into 20 huge missions, which are also broken up into smaller missions themselves. 
 You'll be required to drive your men around town, picking up "Protection Money" at various shops 
 and hotels. You'll run errands for The Don, as well as shake things up for the other crime families 
 in the underworld. As you progress through the game, you'll become a Made Man, and take on larger 
 roles. People will begin to respect and fear you, and you'll take on more serious roles in the 
 missions you take on. All of it, comming to an exciting climax which will leave you wanting more, 
 not because they ended it badly, but because the game is that good, and you don't want it to end.
 
  
  
  The City. I mentioned it earlier that it was huge. It is. It's a very real city, with very real 
 people in it. Think Grand Theft Auto 3, and you'll begine to grasp what this city has to offer. 
 More detail, more lifelike population, and just like real life, drivers who annoy the hell out 
 of you. You'll find real traffic laws you have to follow, like traffic lights, stop signs, right 
 of way, pedestrian crossing, and speed limits. Failing to follow these will bring the cops down 
 on you, if they happen to be in eyesight of you breaking these laws. If they are minor violations, 
 you'll have to pay a fine, which means stopping the car, getting out, and talking with the police. 
 This can kill your time, so becareful. Break 4 in a row, or cause a major violation, like running 
 over a pedestrian, will get the police to come and arrest you. If you fire at them, they will fire 
 back, soon it can get to the point where they will just end your life. Being arrested is game over, 
 which will ruin any current mission you're on. However, you can hide from the police. If you break 
 the law while on foot, and the police are chasing you, you can enter a vehicle, and if they don't 
 see which one you get in, then they will lose you, and search your last point of position. Also, 
 if you break the law while in a car, you can get out of the car, either find another car, or go 
 at it on foot. If they don't see you exit said car, then they will only continue to search for 
 you via way of the car your driving. Using these tactics to your advantage can help you out of 
 tight jams with the police. After you've learned to how to pick a lock of a certain type of car, 
 which you'll be taught back home, you can steal they make and model of car anytime you want to 
 in the city. You can also steal a car with someone inside of it, by throwing them out of the car. 
 Be warned, some people won't take kindly to you stealing their ride, and may strike back at you. 
 There is about 60 cars that you can choose from. If you grab one, and bring it back to your hideout, 
 then that car will be placed in a garage, where you can access it anytime you wish. The cars themselves 
 are nicely detailed, from rust, to scratches, and even smudges on the windows. Also, the cars take 
 realtime damage, you can shoot out any of it's windows, give it a flat tire, and even dent the 
 hood and fenders, or just knock out the headlights.
  
  
  The people in the city are almost as real. They will actually go on with their life, walking around, 
 doing errands, getting into car crashes and calling for help. An ambulence will arrive on scene 
 where the paramedics will get out and try to help the people. Police will go around watching for 
 lawbreakers, and will pull them over, and ticket them. You can walk through the back alleys and 
 see people doing their laundry, or urinating on garbage. Yea, lifelike. The people also are nicely 
 detailed, you can see the buttons on their shirts, or the creases in their faces. They talk realisticly, 
 but the only problem we have here, is their AI isn't too great. At times i'll watch people walk 
 out into the street, right into a car, and stand there facing the car as the car itself continues 
 on it's track, trying to run the person over. The cars themselves have this problem. They will 
 pull out in front of you, oblivious to your existence, or anyone elses. But for the most part, 
 it's kept to a minumum, and won't shadow the realisim this game offers.
  
  
  Combat in the game could use a little help. This is the only feature in the game I have any problem 
 with. It's a little slow. You can die very easily when you have three people punching you, and 
 you can't get one hit off. I found it a little fustraiting at times. However, as the game progresses, 
 you will get more used to the controls of the game, enabling you to keep up with the action, but 
 at times, you can also get overwhelmed, often finding yourself replaying the same mission over 
 and over. The controls themselves are fairly easy to get into, within 20 seconds I was able to 
 drive a car, almost like a pro. Almost. Moving in third person is pretty much the same. You'll 
 get the hang of it, and before long, won't even notice the quirky movements.
  
  
  The game is somewhat adult in nature, in that it has adult themes found in-game, much like GTA3. 
 At various times, you'll be encountering prostitues, and murderous thugs. You yourself will be 
 doing things that aren't "civilized". And of course, to back all this up, are nice visuals. On 
 a high end maching, with all the options on full blast, you'll be in awe at the sights and sounds 
 of everyday city life. Everything down to the cutscenes, which I may add use the game's engine, 
 are fantastic and nicely detailed down to the stubble on the chin. One problem I noticed, are pop 
 ups. Often while driving around the city, you'll find the backdrop of the skyscrappers will look 
 like grey blobs till you get to a certain distance from them, then the buildings will pop in as 
 if they were always there. This only happens on the tall buildings though, and doesn't effect the 
 detail of the game to much. The cinematics are written with such intense flavor, you feel like 
 you're watching a good ganster flick. The sound of the game is up to par as well. Everything is 
 authentic, and all sound the way it should, or did back then. The voice acting is done professionalywith 
 such life behind it, you almost believe these people actually existed.
  
  
  During the game, as you collect more cars, either while unlocking them, or just stealing them, 
 you can use these in Free Ride Mode. This mode is a seperate entity of the game, where you can 
 drive anywhere you want and try out the different cars, or you can be a Taxi, pick up people, and 
 drop them off at their destinations, so you can make money. I found that while in this mode, you 
 will encounter The Mafia who will leave you alone unless you hit their car, or even try to steal 
 it. Then you'll have them chasing you all around the city, with the police following closely. Also, 
 after completing the Single Player aspect of the game, you can unlock Free Ride Extreme which gives 
 you more driving missions to complete. If you pass any of these challenges, you will unlock the 
 secret cars in the game. One warning, these missions don't exactly have the same taste as the rest 
 of the game, they get very strange, and only get more odd as you progress through these challenges.
 
  
  
  
  My only real nitpick about this game, is it often feels as if the developers wanted this to be 
 more of a racing game then anything else. While it does contain all the equations to make a ganster 
 game, it has a lot of racing involved as well. In most of the missions, you are required to get 
 from point A to point B before your time runs out. There is even a mission where you enter a race, 
 and there is no other place except first that you can get, or you have to retry again. The pop 
 ups are there, they are noticible, but don't really take away from the game itself since most of 
 the time you're watching the road as is. The control is good enough to keep you from really noticing 
 any problems, but the combat needs a little more work. All in all, Illusion Softworks has a great 
 hit on their hands, and as word of mouth gets around, watch for this game to hit it big time. I 
 give Mafia: 9.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zsciaeount
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 6, 2003 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Mafia for the PC is one of the most beautiful -- and occasionally one of the most frustrating -- gaming 
 experiences on the PC. At any rate, Mafia is always guaranteed to produce a reaction in the gamer, 
 from edge-of-your seat excitment, to gouge-your-eyes-out exasperation, to wake-me-when-its-over 
 boredom. But it's those flashes of brilliance that far outweigh the humdrum filler, and make Mafia 
 a must-play game.
  
  With Mafia, it is obvious that overseas developer Illusion Softworks has done their homework on 
 Americana and the era of Prohibition, because they deliver a richly-detailed world that is at all 
 times believable. From the architecture, to the clothes, to weapons, to the cars inspired by real-world 
 automobiles, the city of Lost Heaven is a world firmly grounded in historical reality. No other 
 video game to date has managed to more faithfully and cinematically capture its time and its characters 
 than has Mafia.
  
  The biggest mistake people will make before playing Mafia is believing it to be Grand Theft Auto 
 clone. This could not be further from the truth. While, yes, you do play an up-and-coming gangster, 
 and while yes, you do drive around the city, the similarities end there. While in GTA, an emphasis 
 was placed on driving, and a large part of the game depended on looking for trouble, in Mafia, 
 the driving component is mostly a means to get to the location where the bulk of your mission takes 
 place. While in the GTA games, missions rarely took to foot, in Mafia, pretty much every mission 
 has a very large third-person shooter component that makes up the bulk of the mission. In fact, 
 with the exception of bullet time, Mafia has more in common with Max Payne than it does Grand Theft 
 Auto.
  
  Perhaps the most impressive aspect of Mafia is its graphics. Simply put, Mafia looks stunning. 
 Much of this has to do with the art design mentioned above, but it also hinges upon the fact that 
 the graphics engine is capable of rendering a great deal of detail with large draw distances. Furthermore, 
 the textures are incredible, as you can see pock marks and stubble on the characters' highly expressive 
 faces. Lighting effects are subtle, but impressive when you see the headlights on the cars in action. 
 On top of all of that, the game animates smoothly, and cars have a great deal of damage effects 
 that are more than just cosmetic; they affect the handling of the car as well.
  
  In the sound department, Mafia does not disappoint. The voice acting in the game is uniformly excellent. 
 The sound effects are rich and powerful, without being over-the-top; from weapons reloading, to 
 footsteps in an alley, to the sound of your engine starting, Mafia sounds excellent. The music 
 is probably the weakest point in the game, though its no slouch. Simply put, the music is beautiful, 
 and there's plenty of variety, but with EAX options on, it's tough to find the right balance for 
 the music so that it doesn't overpower or isn't underpowered. That said, it's a minor complaint.
 
  
  With such a beautiful presentation, it's a shame that there are a few gameplay issues that detract 
 from the overall experience. First of all, gamers who were hoping for a simple control scheme will 
 find themselves sorely disappointed, as this game can't seem to decide if it wants to be played 
 with a gamepad or a mouse and keyboard. Gamepad users will find that the driving portions of the 
 game very easy to control, and will love the responsiveness of an analog control stick when it 
 comes to steering; however, even gamers with 12-button pads will find that the gamepad is woefully 
 inadequate in the shooter sections. Conversely, mouse and keyboard players will feel at home in 
 the shooter sections, but will likely find the driving impossible when precision and speed is demanded. 
 So, what is a gamer to do? The answer is, to get the most enjoyment out of the game, you must use 
 both a gamepad AND a mouse and keyboard setup. While this will be no problem for many gamers, it 
 would have been nice to have had a control scheme that worked completely with one input device 
 or the other.
  
  Another complaint that could be lodged is that with the exception of car chases, the driving component 
 of the game is otherwise pretty unexciting. While you have freedom to roam the vastness of Lost 
 Heaven, there are no rewards for straying from your path. While in transit, you must obey all traffic 
 laws if you want to avoid arrest; this means following the speed limit, and stopping at all red 
 lights when the cops are looking. While this sounds like a good idea, it quickly gets old, as the 
 distances you must cover are often significant. The home base for your operations rests in a restaurant 
 on the central island of Lost Heaven, but most of the action takes place on other islands, which 
 are only accessible by bridges and tunnels located some distance from your headquarters. Simply 
 put, these drives take a long time, and that time is made longer by having to obey traffic laws 
 and the relative lack of action on the way.
  
  The third-person shooter mode is where Mafia shines, and the missions have enough variety to keep 
 you hooked. Some missions have you quietly boosting a shipment of whiskey, others have you dishing 
 out justice with a baseball bat. Still others have you sneaking around a house to avoid detection, 
 while other missions have you locked in massive firefights, or have you publicly assassinate an 
 enemy. The missions are extremely well-designed, and often have multiple chapters, with excellent 
 plot twists that often change the goals of the mission. The AI is very good, as enemies will look 
 for cover, and friends will position themselves for better shots.
  
  But, there are some inconsistencies. The missions often seem based on luck. While sometimes, everything 
 goes your way, your computer-controlled friends will sometimes transform from invincible to dead 
 in a matter of seconds, thus ending the mission. You may be slayed by just a few shots in one mission, 
 only to replay it and come out unscathed. Sometimes, every shot finds its mark, and other times, 
 you can't seem to hit someone at point-blank range. This makes some of the more difficult firefights 
 an exercise in trial and error, hoping that next time, your comrade can dispatch a few enemies 
 without taking a shotgun blast to the head. But, most of the time, the game plays fair, and the 
 missions have enough save points to minimize frustration.
  
  Perhaps the best aspect of Mafia is the truly cinematic story. While it starts off a bit slow, 
 over the course of many beautifully-rendered cutscenes, you are treated to a story that gets deeper 
 and deeper. Furthermore, the character development is superb, and you'll quickly find yourself 
 becoming attached to the characters. It is through the deepness of the characters that the game 
 is always exciting, and sometimes very touching.
  
  In conclusion, Mafia is an excellent game beset by a few flaws that make the game frustrating at 
 times. However, if you have a rig that will run the game properly, and don't mind playing with 
 two input devices, the game's shortcomings are easily lost in the richness of the story and the 
 game world, and the superbly-crafted missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrizzlyJim
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 1, 2003 9:48 pm PT
Review:  I still haven't finished the game but, so far, it's proving to be a very good game. The graphics 
 are very similar to GTA III. There's a lot of fun in this game! It's well worth the money folks! 
 There are some flawes in it, but they seem to be minor. Some of the cut scenes are a bit too lengthy 
 and the car you drive always seems a bit too slow... But, it's still fun trying to outrun the other 
 mobsters or the police. And, like some of the thoughtless productions like Indiana Jones; Emperor's 
 Tomb, you can't save games. They're all autosaves. So you have to complete the level over and over 
 and over and over again until you get it right... Still, you can drive around town, running over 
 pedestrians and having loads of fun... This is one of the best games to come out! It's well worth 
 your money and you'll have a lot of fun playing it... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
