-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mage Knight Apocalypse
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/mageknightapocalypse/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Some of the characters and environments look good.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The free camera requires constant adjustment.
 The endless death and revival cycle is tiresome.
 User interface is clumsy and frustrating.
 Terrible artificial intelligence.
 At best the multiplayer is barely functional.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 13, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.4
Critic Score: 5.1, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 6.2, 452 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco Bandai Games America
Developer: InterServ Int.
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date:     Sep 26, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Mage Knight Apocalypse is a sloppy attempt to adapt the collectible tabletop miniatures game to 
 a dungeon-crawler format. 

  Mage Knight Apocalypse is a hack-and-slash action role-playing game set in the fantasy world of 
 the Mage Knight collectible miniatures game from WizKids games. You don't have to be familiar with 
 the tabletop game to understand Mage Knight Apocalypse, though. It's a very basic dungeon crawler 
 with all of the essentials you've come to expect from games like Diablo and Dungeon Siege: multiple 
 character classes, a variety of ugly monsters to kill, dungeons to clear, and lots and lots of 
 loot to collect. There are some interesting design concepts in this game, but unfortunately the 
 execution wavers between aggravatingly sloppy and painfully bland.  

          There are five characters to choose from, but it would be nice to have the option to create 
 your own hero.     

  The story in Mage Knight Apocalypse is taken straight from the tabletop game. It takes place in 
 a world known as The Land, where fantasy races like dwarves, elves, vampires, dragons, and orcs 
 are locked in constant war. A group of powerful spirit masters known as the Solonavi have kept 
 an eye on things, and they are convinced that if they don't eliminate the evil force that is driving 
 the inhabitants of The Land to war, the world will come to an end. So the Solonavi call a group 
 of five heroes to form a fellowship known as the Oathsworn, whose job it is to find and destroy 
 the source of the evil before the world is destroyed. It's a workable setup for a game, but the 
 story just never gets off the ground. The characters are uninteresting and lifeless, and the story 
 is so riddled with clichs that it feels completely generic. It doesn't help that the dialogue 
 is all stilted and awkward, and the voices for the characters are completely devoid of emotion 
 and personality. All of this makes it very difficult to get wrapped up in the story. Of course, 
 this is an action-focused game, so a dull story can be forgivable if the gameplay is compelling 
 enough to stand on its own.  

  When you begin the game you're given a choice of five heroes to play as, and each has three separate 
 skill paths to follow. Eventually you'll have a party of all five heroes, although you'll only 
 ever actually control the hero that you choose at the beginning of the game. The Nightblade can 
 be an assassin, a necromancer, or a vampire. The Draconum is a mage who can specialize in earth, 
 fire, or wind magic. The Elf is a paladin who can become a strong fighter, a healer, or a ranged 
 attacker who uses a combination of lightning and arrows. The Amazon huntress has three fighting 
 styles modeled after various animals. The bear style gives her strength as a melee fighter, the 
 eagle style allows for effective ranged attacks, and the jaguar style allows the huntress to avoid 
 attacks and inflict damage with well-timed counters. Finally, the dwarf marksman can be a tough 
 melee fighter, a gunner, or an expert with explosives. Aside from choosing which skills to use, 
 there's very little character customization in this game. You can choose a hair color or style, 
 and one of half a dozen faces, but that's it. It feels limited since you have to work within a 
 few dull character templates, and most of the heroes seem exactly like the ones you've seen in 
 countless other role-playing games.  

  It's not quite as simple as choosing a character and then picking a skill set. Rather, your character 
 develops depending on how you use him or her. You can create a hybrid character if you want to 
 pick and choose skills from each of the various paths, but if you do that it will take much longer 
 to unlock the higher-level skills of each type. That's because instead of developing your character, 
 you're essentially developing his or her skills. There are no experience points in Mage Knight 
 Apocalypse, and there are no levels. Instead, your individual skills and attributes gain experience 
 and increase in level as you use them. If you constantly use your melee attack it will increase 
 in level and become more powerful. At the same time, your strength will increase from all that 
 attacking, and that will further increase the power of your blows. As you level up your skills 
 you'll unlock new skills, so if you're playing as a mage and you primarily use a fire attack, you'll 
 eventually gain access to stronger fire spells. This leveling system is an interesting departure 
 from the usual experience-point grind that many role-playing games fall into, and it's about the 
 only thing that Mage Knight Apocalypse does well. Even then, it's nothing drastically different -- it 
 just requires you to be slightly more aware of your actions rather than just bludgeoning your way 
 through mobs of enemies to earn experience points.  

  The game takes you through six chapters. In each chapter you'll work your way from the beginning 
 of a dungeon to the end, killing hundreds of monsters along the way. The dungeons are all very 
 linear, and it's easy to find your way through. The same can't be said for your computer-controlled 
 allies, though. In each chapter you'll get a new hero to join your party, and you can issue basic 
 commands like follow and attack. However, the artificial intelligence is so terrible that you'll 
 hardly ever see your fellow heroes. More often than not they'll get stuck behind a wall or won't 
 be able to figure out how to turn a corner to follow you, so they'll just stand there leaving you 
 to deal with half a dozen or more monsters at a time.  

          Your companions will usually stand around admiring the scenery rather than helping you 
 fight the overwhelming mobs of nasty monsters.     

  Because of your unhelpful companions as well as the high volume of enemies in the game, you'll 
 die  a lot . When you die you simply resurrect at the nearest save point. Since the save points 
 are all over the place, you'll usually only have to take a few steps to pick up the fight right 
 where you left off. You'll quickly fall into a very repetitive and annoying cycle of death where 
 you resurrect, fight, and die over and over again. You'll slowly pick away at the mob of monsters 
 until finally they're all dead, then you can move on to do it all again. It removes any sort of 
 challenge or sense of attrition from the game, since the only penalty for dying is coming back 
 to life a few steps away with half of your mana and life back. When you have a sliver of health 
 left why bother wasting a potion or a healing spell when you can just die and regain half your 
 life? Not only does it make absolutely no sense, it just isn't fun.  

  Your reward for dying a dozen times to kill off that mob of a dozen monsters is, of course, loot. 
 Monsters will drop everything from rings and armor to magic stones and potions. You can collect 
 it all and sell it, or equip it to make your character stronger. The problem is that there's a 
 ton of loot in the game, and not much space in your inventory. Later in the game you'll end up 
 throwing away the majority of what you collect, which makes collecting treasure more tedious than 
 it is rewarding. It's also frustrating because the interface is poorly designed, so you'll have 
 to open separate menus for your character and your inventory if you want to equip anything.  

 
  There's also a crafting system in the game, so you can forge weapons with magical stones, or use 
 recipes and herbs to create potions. It's a fine idea, but the implementation is poor. There are 
 tons of herbs all over the place, and there's just no room to store them in your inventory, so 
 it's easier to buy the potions from a vendor or just die and resurrect instead. Again, the interface 
 for these crafting systems is less than ideal. You have to open up a menu for each one, and then 
 open up your inventory menu and drag the items you want to use to the proper slots. The whole process 
 is more trouble than it's worth.  

  Likewise, the multiplayer in Mage Knight Apocalypse is a pain. You can play the game with up to 
 four other players online. You can choose to play through the entire campaign cooperatively from 
 start to finish, or you can choose your favorite chapter and just play it over and over again. 
 You can chat with the other players or trade items with them, but that's about the extent of it. 
 That is, if you can even make it that far. When trying to play online you'll often get messages 
 saying that the game is unable to connect to the server, even after you've tried a dozen different 
 servers. Once you do manage to connect to a server it usually won't last long, and you'll be disconnected 
 and tossed back out to the server browser in the middle of your game. There also aren't very many 
 people playing online, so unless you have friends you know you can get a game on with, you might 
 as well forget multiplayer even exists in this game.  

  The presentation in Mage Knight Apocalypse is appealing at times, but for the most part it just 
 feels sloppy. The characters and monsters look fairly detailed, and there are some nice touches 
 in the world of The Land. The different areas all look distinct, from the crumbling temples of 
 the overgrown jungle to the fire and machinery of the underground dwarf stronghold. That's where 
 the appeal ends, though. One of the most endlessly annoying features of the game is the free camera. 
 You can rotate the camera around your character by holding the mouse wheel or space bar and moving 
 the mouse. It sounds simple enough, but it's extremely awkward to reposition the camera while moving. 
 Also, the way the levels are designed you'll constantly need to adjust the camera to see where 
 you're going or who you're attacking. If you leave the camera alone you'll either be running around 
 blind or the camera will get stuck on something and just twitch randomly for a while.  

  There are also graphical glitches that make the game look much worse than it should. Characters 
 clip through one another and through walls and objects in the environment, and there are some minor 
 graphical bugs that frequently appear. On several occasions one of our companions died, and then 
 remained a corpse even after being revived. The clipping isn't just ugly, it affects the gameplay 
 as well. Enemy archers will shoot you through walls, pillars, and stone, and if you try to retaliate 
 you'll get a message that your attack failed because you didn't have a line of sight.  

          You can collect all kinds of herbs to make into potions, as long as you have room in your 
 backpack.     

  The audio isn't any better than the visuals. As mentioned, the voice acting is terrible. The sound 
 effects are annoying as well, with the same few grunts, squeals, and screams coming from the characters 
 and enemies. There's no music whatsoever for the majority of the game. Occasionally some bland 
 orchestrated tunes will pick up for a few seconds during story sequences and such, but that's it. 

  Mage Knight Apocalypse is a poorly executed take on a tried-and-true formula. The game has everything 
 you'd expect from an action RPG, but none of it is handled well. The multiplayer is a hassle, the 
 single-player is riddled with bugs and frustrating design flaws, and the presentation is sloppy. 
 If you can somehow overlook all of these flaws, you could spend a lot of time going through all 
 six chapters of the game with each of the five characters. But when you consider how many similar 
 games of better quality are already available, you're left with very little reason to play this 
 one.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (30 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: vfibsux
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  At first I was not too impressed but I kept on plugging away since I had nothing better to do. 
 The first level killing orcs that were just standing around was not grabbing me at all, nor was 
 the story. After playing through and meeting some dwarves things started to get a little interesting. 
 THe story will not keep you on edge wondering what will happen next, but it keeps the game moving 
 along well enough.
  
  I am impressed with the leveling system, it is skill based rather than level based which is refreshing. 
 There are skill trees and you can either focus on one and be very good at it, or balance yourself 
 out. You pick from pre-determined characters/classes, but it works out well. The more you use a 
 certain skill the better you get at it, and it allows you to advance up the tree to more skills. 
 The great thing about this is your first skills are still useful later in the game since they level 
 up.
  
  Don't expect great AI or stunning graphics, you won't find that here. What you will find is a fun 
 and addictive hack and slash game where you can constantly find cool loot and just have fun killing 
 stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjmcafee
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 5, 2007 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Have experienced multiple system crashes when exiting areas so if you do play save early and often. 
 (You MUST have heard that one before) . Game play is spotty and repetitive. Not really worth the 
 effort or the time involved. Does have an interesting system of advancement that doesn't involve 
 skill points, but works based on what you do with your character. The more you use a skill the 
 better you get at it - something that actually makes sense. Would be very nice to see that in a 
 better executed game. Other that that, you would be better off staying with some old favorites. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trmabry
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 6:03 am PT
Review:  What's not to like about this game. It has pretty scenery, good gameplay, extensive character customization. 
 I like it a lot and have played it a lot too. I realize it is kind of a knock off of Diablo and 
 games of it's ilk, but I don't care. It has a different look and feel and some game-play features 
 that make it unique in the action RPG genre. I think people who have actually played the game for 
 a while will rate it higher than professional reviewers. I have played plenty of action RPG games 
 and this one rates right up there with Sacred, Titan Quest, Divine Divinity, Diablo, etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bkinsman
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 5, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  I read some of the comments, one that i noticed in particular said that the partners don't attack 
 the enemy, well i have been playing the game and have found that the partners do help you in battle, 
 whoever wrote that must have been playing the game with there eyes closed. The graphics is very 
 good and the cut-scenes are very good quality, the only down side that i have noticed on the cut-scenes 
 is that the voices aren't heard very well, i don't know if it could just be a fault on my computer 
 but i find i can hear the background noises more than i can hear the talking.
  
  Still currently playing game to be honest, but i am finding it intriguing. The save points are 
 placed well i think, there aren't too many but there aren't to few either, has just the right balance.
 
  
  Overall, a fairly good game, fun to play and gets very addictive, everyone is different and everyone 
 has there own opinion, i personally feel it is nice to hear the different feedback on a game. Gamers 
 remember though that if there is a game similar to this and you have realy got into that game, 
 dont just jump to this one else it feels like you playing the same game again. Enjoy playing it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TigetyTight
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 6, 2007 12:19 am PT
Review:  I didn't get the game until after the patches came out and the price dropped to twenty dollars 
 so I don't knwo what it would have been like before hand, but with the new improvements which I 
 would assume made the game much less buggy from what I have read the game is actually quite fun. 
 I have just beaten the draconum part of the game and am nearly finished i think, and tushfar the 
 storyline though it could use improvements is quite good. The beginning of the game is more or 
 less... annoying, as the attack on the dwarf city forced me too resurrect myself and return o the 
 same location dozens of times. However it seemed that as you leveled up the monsters didn't. I 
 know that as a vampiress as soon as I got blood siphon my death count dropped severely and at th 
 point that I am now except for a few main bosses I haven't died at all. The new patch supposedly 
 increased the difficulty and made the AI more intelligent, however I go through the entire dungeon 
 up til the final boss and leave my guys behind without any issues whatsoever. Perhaps as the game 
 progresses it will become harder. The death system is a rather large pain as you go all the way 
 back to your last savepoint and basically have to walk through mazes to return to where you were 
 before. The graphics are iffy not great but Id on't find them distracting. I do enjoy how they 
 converted the table top figures of mageknight so well into every part of the story. The combat 
 system is very enjoyable in my opinion, people complain about the camera but I have never really 
 had a problem with it. I simply switched the camera rotating button to spacebar and it seemed fairly 
 ez after that. The new chase mode however is extremely annoying as the a and d buttons don't turn 
 your char. rather they cause him to move horizontally so when using the chase mode I became kind 
 of motion sick. Overall I am finding the game quite enjoyable however. I've played both single 
 and multiplayer and both seem to work just fine. The story is good enough that it has kept me going 
 without complaint andthe wide variety of monsters prevent the game from feeling repetitive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Linux_Donut
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 27, 2006 6:39 am PT
Review:  Mageknight throws you into the world of the popular tabletop game, keeping many familiar creatures 
 and heroes etc.... The problems people keep reporting, I believe can be fixed with some minor patching. 
 The path finding errors and AI death charges and whatnot. The advantages of MK: A include a skill 
 tree that Capcom largely created from scratch, a unique way to progress through that skill tree, 
 the fact that you increase attributes through skill usage rather than level grinding for hours 
 and hours, and the ability to customize your hero' s appearance (something very lacking from most 
 single player rpgs) . You then are launched into a large world of monsters and bad guys all right 
 there for you to plow through. If you don't want to buy this game... at least borrow it and give 
 it a fair chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VoodooMIT
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 3, 2006 7:12 am PT
Review:  I played MKA for 2 days... and I wonder why most people said this game sucks? well... anyways I got 
 some of my reasons that I think this game is worth people to buy
  (FOR GOOD REASONS)
  
  This game is very easy to understand ! when u played 10 mins u'll get about 90% for interface stuff... for 
 expample , skill tree , craft items , making potions etc...
  
  For the Skill Tree and Character States... you don't need to add points on them... this is a great 
 idea for most of players that add to wrong skills or states for different type of the character 
 that makes people to retrain their character... this system saves your time to fugure out what skills 
 or which states u have to add... this is great don't you think ?
  
  people might be think how can I get stronger if I don't add any states or skills points...? the 
 answer is you don't need... it will train you to be a tank automatically... this is just like Elder 
 Scroll : Oblivion... for example : when your character is walking... it gains your movement speed 
 , when u always use melee weapons , it gains your Str faster but slower other states , if you use 
 bow all the time , it will gains your Dex and Ability but slower Str . Every States , Every Skill 
 points has the EXP to lvl up... once your State or EXP bar is Full , it will Lv up and get stronger 
 automatically , when Skill Lv up , your character will learn a new skills if you already pass the 
 requirement
  
  (SOMETHING BAD BUT NOT A BIG DEAL)
  For something bad of this game is the Sound and the game Music... the sound effect is not that clear... and 
 no Music most of time... sometimes the music just pop out in some places... if the Music is keep 
 playing... I think it will make you exciting during the game
  and for the Fighting animations I think it's just about 30 flims per second... the fighting action 
 is not that good... but not that worse too...
  for those bad parts I can get used of it and I think those are not that serious problem... and when 
 the Patch 1.2 comes out... I think it will much improve about most ppl complaining Camara problem 
 and game BUGS ... but... I haven't found any CAMARA PROBLEM or BUGS for me
  
  this game is great , I really recommend people should try to play it... it worths 59.99$ CAN before 
 tax... but be honest... if this game is little bit cheaper maybe 10$ cheaper... I'll give 10/10 of 
 game Value
  anyways... I give 8.1 for this game ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weewalio
Rating: 6.1
Date: Oct 21, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played much of this game yet, but already I can feel that, in its current state, I'll 
 probably never finish it. Then again, I thought Fable was dreadfully dull, so take my opinion how 
 you will...
  
  The biggest hurdle to enjoying this game is the camera. I simply hate having to adjust the camera 
 at the same time as I am fighting, which inevitably happens. All too often, it results in my running 
 into another group of baddies when I haven't even polished off the first one yet. The developers 
 shouldn't have tried to innovate here (can this be called innovation?) and should have stuck to 
 the tried-and-true, over-the-shoulder chase camera. I know it sounds like a small thing, but believe 
 me... this one game mechanic, if it stands, will be enough to put a lot of people off the game. 
 It's that annoying. The story? I don't know yet... but ever since text games like ZORK for the PC, 
 it's all about Kill Foozle so I'm less concerned with that.
  
  Graphics? Not bad, not great. The textures seem.... I dunno, muddy somewhat, not crisp or clear 
 enough, and the animations for characters or spell effects are, again, average. There's some clipping 
 and a few invisible walls . For reference, Titan Quest, another game of this type, has graphics 
 which are head and shoulders above MKA. There's really no comparison. The MKA manual promises a 
 really great experience if you have a high-end GeForce card (I have a Radeon X800 XL) , but somehow 
 I doubt it. Still, they do the job.
  
  The sound, in my opinion, is sub-par... but not for the reasons others have mentioned. The voice 
 acting I've heard so far is no worse than anything you'd get in the majority of games. It's the 
 sound effects that bother me. Combat sounds are weak, and non -istinctive; no real metallic clangs 
 from swords or axes, no thudding smack!! from the blunt weapons. Spell sounds are REALLY weak, 
 just generic bzzzzzHTTT and WOOooossHH sounds. And the creatures themselves are anything but frightening. 
 I haven't had any issues with bugs or crashes yet, nor any problems with load times. To me, the 
 real problems with this game aren't technical, they're design problems. The first patch implements 
 auto-stacking and fixes a few bugs, whatever they may be.... but it's the camera and really lacklustre 
 sound that bother me the most. If it wasn't for those two things, I'd be tempted to finish and 
 even replay this game just because of the different character classes. As is... well, maybe I'll 
 keep playing EVE until they roll out a few more patches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyclone1234
Rating: 1.9
Date: Oct 20, 2006 5:03 am PT
Review:  What a HUGE Disappointment , I've had more fun going to the Dentist !
  The Graphics are clunky and unpolished , on par with Dungeon Lords ,the interface screens look 
 like they've been created by some kid as his after-school project and don't even get me started 
 on your character equipment screen... So much for polishing your game guys !
  
  If I was the CEO of the company I would have fired the entire game design team !!
  
  Talk about 
 wasting a great idea ! All the previews sounded so good , but all the promise of character background 
 and backstory fizziled to nothing.
  
  Oh , and the AI sucks something serious... AFTER I applied the first patch I still had an orc just 
 standing next to me looking at my character after I had just wiped out his friends !! Don't even 
 want to know how bad it was before the patch ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 4.8
Date: Oct 18, 2006 4:08 pm PT
Review:  On the first level of Mage Knight Apocalypse I noticed the font, the items, and the on screen chat 
 looked very much like WoW. I thought Cool maybe this won't be so bad! , I was wrong. The models 
 and water look great but the fighting gameplay looks outdated and isn't the most fun I've had in 
 an RPG. The skill setup tries to add a new style with only 6 skills on the bar but you can click 
 to select one making it bound to the mouse buttons until you click another skill, which is O. K. 
 but it is just not ideal only a keyboard. You also die alot in MKA which would usually make me 
 mad but you just respawn at the last checkpoint with no death penalty making for no challenge. 
 Overall this game has no depth and is horribly boring, try your luck with another RPG or wait for 
 better RPGs to come such as NeverWinter Nights 2 and Gothic III. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwilson32
Rating: 4.3
Date: Oct 17, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  I don't know what went on with all of the other players' computers, but after installing the 1.01 
 patch I experienced no problems at all. The install only took about 5 minutes (if that) and the 
 game loaded fairly quickly. The cut scenes were smooth and the game looks good. The sound is pretty 
 good too. The camera is quite annoying, however, it does not make the game unplayable like another 
 player stated. It is not that bad. I am willing to bet that most of the complaints come from folks 
 using GeForce cards as there are many problems with those cards in many games. I am playing on 
 an Athlon 64 2.0 GHz, and an ATI x800 series graphics card with 256 MB video RAM. I also have 2 
 GB system RAM. The game runs fine.
  
  The gameplay leaves a lot to be desired. It is a little boring and the story is not that great. 
 One of the advertisements on the cover is that you can fully explore the world. Well, I suppose 
 that if that means that the world consists of a small linear and narrow path, then yes you can 
 fully explore the world. I think that this game needs a lot of work to make it fun, but the game 
 performs well on my system with absolutely 0 lag or crashes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: life4hire
Rating: 3.3
Date: Oct 16, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  There are tons of bugs in this game and no forseable patch. Highly recommend staying away for a 
 few months until a patch or two is released. I can only run this game in windowed mode although 
 that is not bad it takes over 5 minutes for the game to start and the window is half off the screen. 
 Repeated CTD and numerous audio problems. My rig:
  AMD FX55
  SLI GeForce 7800GTX's
  SATA RAID 0
  Integrated nVidia Audio
  Integrated nVidia NIC
  2GIG RAM
  
  This game is 
 too unstable to play at this time. I am half way through the game and cannot progress due to game 
 errors. When a patch comes out I will finish the game but for now I wish I didnt do the purchase. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drichard2830
Rating: 4.1
Date: Oct 16, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  I think I was one of only a handful of people that had actually been following this game from the 
 first preview posted. I don't have any Mage Knight Miniatures experience, but I am an avid RPG 
 fan, especially for action RPG's with Co-op modes abounding. Therefore, upon its release, I hunted 
 it down through three different Best Buy stores until I found it, payed full price for it, and 
 left happy. Rushing home that evening, I ran the install, read through a bit of the full-color 
 manual and waited to play. I was pretty excited to see the production values on the packaging, 
 and figured that boded well for the game itself. When the 6-CD install finished (why not release 
 a DVD version?) , I booted up the game, created my first character (a sexy vampiress) , and started 
 the tutorial. I hadn't gotten far before I remembered to check my graphics settings, after all, 
 the world didn't look that good, and the interface seemed surprisingly low res. I was disappointed 
 to find that I was already at my max 1280x1024, and most of the effects were turned all the way 
 up. The text from conversations and in the menus looked horribly blocky and anti-aliasing was apparently 
 not applied to any of it.
  
  I continued on, a little discomfitted, but still excited to see what the world of Mage Knight had 
 in store. My first quest, simple enough, was to retrieve some tools for an ogre/troll thing from 
 some orcs up ahead. I wandered down the path and attacked a barricade of wood that had been set 
 up. Though it wasn't as easy as it sounds. I had to continually click on the barricade for it to 
 break, and the timing and response of the controls seemed off. I would click click click only to 
 get one swing in. Targeting was a frustration as well, and I noticed a lot of gliding animation 
 during combat and especially when running over the landscape. The selection of left- and right-click 
 spells seemed easy enough at first, but I found it more frustrating than it needed to be - they 
 should have paid more attention to Titan Quest or Diablo II. Later, I did find some recipes for 
 crafting and making potions, but again, the interface deterred me a little here as well, so I didn't 
 put as much effort into it as I should have.
  
  The most frustrating aspect to me, however, was the multiplayer. My brother-in-law and I love to 
 play co-op games over the Internet together, so we immediately got on the phone and started up 
 a game, only to find that our servers couldn't be joined by each other. Having seen this before 
 with firewall ports and router issues, I went to the forums to get the list of ports to open for 
 playing. Even after setting them up, we failed miserably, and even though we can play Titan Quest, 
 Ghost Recon, and many other online games together, the only way we could experience this was to 
 join a server already out there. Once in, though, the way the quests were handled in multiplayer 
 didn't seem to work well, and the difficulty scaled so high, that both of us died continually as 
 we journeyed through the world. My character kept getting stuck on items, and at one point, a tent 
 (which disappeared when I got too close) held me for quite some time, long enough for three archers 
 to fill me with arrows and kill me. We respawned so many times that we never got past the second 
 resurrection point. Clicking on bad guys, running through an area that constantly snags your character, 
 trying to manage your skills, and dying more often than not made us give up on the co-op game for 
 a while, hoping we could get our own servers working.
  
  I went back to the single-player for a while, but started noticing the same issues there, to the 
 point that I finally uninstalled the game. The forums are full of bugs that other players can't 
 resolve, and the game just wasn't that spectacular to begin with. On the bright side, I did manage 
 to get $30 for it on ebay, so I only lost $20 as a rental fee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chylde_Roland
Rating: 4.3
Date: Oct 10, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  I was a sucker. I have to admit that right off the bat. This game has one hell of a PR machine 
 behind it: it looked great in the ads and on paper, and I got caught up in the hype, thinking this 
 would be one sweet game. How wrong I was.
  
  I'm writing this review to hopefully convice some of you to avoid making the same mistake I made, 
 which is spending your hard earned cash on this pile of drivel.
  
  My first complaint arose when I opened the box: 6 CDs! I don't know if there was a DVD version 
 of this thing, but I certainly didn't see one when I was shopping for it. After the lengthy install 
 process, I immediately patched the game because I was aware a patch had been released for it already, 
 no big deal, I thought.
  
  Then I loaded up the game, and was presented with a low quality intro movie, complete with very 
 poor voice acting. My hopes started to dwindle at this point. Once through the movie, I got to 
 pick one of five characters to play. I don't mind being forced to pick a toon, since it worked 
 well with the Diablo games. I chose the Amazon, Cheya. I was expecting, due to the game box, to 
 be able to change everything about her appearance: and I couldn't. According to the box, there 
 are thousands of options available to you when creating a character. Wrong. There *might* be thousands 
 of combinations, since you get to change six items, maybe six times for each character, which would 
 give you thousands of possible combinations. But the changes are very minimal, such as eye color 
 or hair style. meh.
  
  Then I load up the game. I'm met with a stuttery, jerky camera showing my character arriving at 
 the edge of some forest. I meet a troll who's been hurt (bad voice acting strikes again!) and needs 
 my help. I move along to fight the first enemy, and hit him twice. After the second hit, the orc 
 dies. But he doesn't behave as expected. One second he's standing, the next he's facedown on the 
 ground. Well, almost instantly. He did some super-duper-high-speed flip, THEN landed face down. 
 The animations in this game are horrible, only going downhill from this point on.
  
  The camera is clunky and hard to control, the leveling process makes no sense (how do I gain intelligence 
 from smashing a barrel? Is it because I was smart enough to smash it, instead of say, trying to 
 eat it?) . I also noticed that my melee based character was not very capable of handling damage 
 very well. I died many times against easy enemies, even while trying a variety of different strategies, 
 including softening them up with magic/missles, etc. And I just can't get past the crappy animation 
 in any case.
  
  This game lacks any form of polish, it's buggy as hell, and it's not even fun to play. I would 
 never recommend it to anyone, nor would wish it upon my worst enemy, it's that awful. Do yourself 
 a favor: wait for NWN2 or Dark Messiah. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonkeeper_1
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 10, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  When i finally got to play the game after a good long installation time with as much as 6 disks 
 , my first reactions where quite good. The graphics where pretty good and you see right away that 
 there's some good, quite original fantasy in the game. I was directly drawn into the game with 
 the good ambient sounds and an overall good looking fantasy world.
  I got myself through the tutorial level and i noticed the gameplay is a bit simple, and how further 
 you get how more simple it gets. But simple doesn't directly mean bad. Its just not that good, 
 but really not bad. I am halfway through chapter 2 now and its getting more and more addictive. 
 It got a good storyline and the sphere is still really nice. 1 thing i noticed was the point you 
 get no penalty for dying, and i died quite a few times already, you just respawn at the latest 
 savepoint, nothing lost.
  At 1 point my savegames didnt load anymore, this was easily fixed tough. Another bad thing is the 
 skill selection through the numberkeys doesnt really work too well, so you'll have to go down to 
 the bar at the bottom pretty often.
  
  Mage Knight Apocalypse has its flaws and bugs, but theres a good game behind it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nevryn
Rating: 7.1
Date: Oct 7, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  After completing the game at least one time, I can say that it was at least moderately entertaining. 
 I never experienced any of these bugs some of the other reviews are claiming. More than likely 
 they are people that downloaded a cracked version of the game and so cannot get the 1.01 patch. 
 I have seen maybe one bug, where the loot bags sometimes do not disappear. It is at most a minor 
 annoyance. It can get a little slow at times, especially if there are a large number of creatures 
 on the screen. Simply lowering my graphics settings in those instances made it work perfectly fine. 
 For those that have compared it to World of Warcraft: try not getting lag when theres 100 some 
 odd creatures or players on the screen on high graphic settings. Also, the character pathing is 
 great. Sometimes your allies dont follow you automatically, you just have to click the follow 
 button and they will find their way to you.
  
  On the negative side, it does not quite live up to its hype. It does involve a degree of grinding 
 if you want to obtain the higher levels, and the classes are more limited than the advertisements 
 would have you believe. One thing I would like to point out though, if you dont have some sort 
 of character grinding development it isnt a RPG. If you dont like grinding, dont play RPGs. 
 The story line is alright, its not the best Ive ever seen, nor is it very long, but it is somewhat 
 interesting. They DEFINITELY could have made it longer, with a few more plot twists, but to say 
 its awful is an overstatement. Now one kind of annoying part with the game is some of the battles 
 are ridiculously hard, except that there is no penalty for dying, so, it ends up being a war of 
 attrition with you slowly wearing down the boss after dying 10 times.
  
  In closing, it was a decent game, definitely not as bad as many individuals will claim, but it 
 does have its flaws. If you want something fun to play and to keep you entertained for awhile, 
 its worth the money. If you want the perfect game that will satisfy you for the rest of your life, 
 you may want to save your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azuredge
Rating: 5.1
Date: Oct 7, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  For all the hype they put into this game, they didn't even touch what the game should have had. 
 First off, for a RPG game, its way too short - they say that you will battle masses of foes like 
 in Diablo 2... no... maybe once you'll do it, otherwise the game is pretty straight forward - travel 
 to the next spot fight the next group and so on, really repetitive fast. If you were hoping for 
 something that gave you more than 3 quests per act, your out of luck. There isn't even anything 
 to explore in the zones - no mini dungeons, or side paths that after a long walk you finally find 
 some hidden stashes of loot. The graphics in this game for the requirements is bogus. I'm gonna 
 use WOW for a reference cause dam it, for a game that only needs 800 mhz to run - it has nice graphics. 
 This game requires a 2.2 ghz to run... sorry the graphics are not that impressive : / For stability, 
 i'm sorry - the game crashes for some many stupid reasons. I've played the game through fully once 
 with one character. I tried a different character and its gotten to the point where the game crashes 
 every time a cut scene starts? Try the previous character again, no problems - go bak to the other... 
 well, it kept crashing. Odd...? Finally - i'm drawing the line here. Their support is poor. All 
 they can do is deliver useless responses. I've tried this game on several systems. When they couldn't 
 come up with an answer, they sent me a scripted response. Additionally, since all these clients 
 that have purchased the game are having issues, they are now asking that we all send in our error 
 files with system specs to find out the issue. Why did they not BETA test this thing before it 
 came out? DS2 Beta tested, D2 Beta tested, and i'm sure a bunch more beta tested (not gonna use 
 MMORPGs as reference for this) . As for a demo - i'm sure they realised that if they released a 
 demo before the product - it would have broke them. Save your money, download a copy of the game 
 and see it for yourself. If you are one of the lucky ones that can manage playing it - have fun 
 then. If your one of the unlucky ones that is continuously crashing - put it away and move onto 
 something else - its not worth the frustration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grynnan
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 7, 2006 6:41 am PT
Review:  Well. Where to begin?
  
  You start the game, no you dont..
  It will take you about 40min to install it..
  But, before you install it, make a backup. 'coz 
 the uninstaller will mess your pc up in a (if you're lucky) bad way.
  
  Lets play.
  You'll wait for a few minutes for the game to crash and recrash a few times, then it'll take about 
 4min to even show the intro.. Downloaded and installed the patch. Ok the game only crash 2 times 
 before it finally starts, and now you'll only have to wait 3min to see the intro.
  
  It's a we have seen this before rpg game pick a character, and kill some. Use your skills to release 
 even deadlier ways to slaughter your way through the game, if you manage to get the camera to point 
 where you want it to.. You have more strugles with the game controls than with the enemies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_razorback
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 6, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  The female models are just about what this game has going for it. I honestly wanted to like Mage 
 Knight Apocalypse but honeslty got frakking tired of adjusting the camera all the time.
  
  The camera control is HORRID, enough for me to uninstall, period. It makes the game literally unplayable.
 
  
  Additionally the tutorial text box covers essential parts of the screen where the gymp loot appears. 
 Just silly.
  
  Like I said, the female models are the only nice thing I found.. the rest is just a blatant copy 
 of many WOW character models and the look and feel as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XLAXXLV
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 11, 2007 8:23 am PT
Review:  With all the clones flooding the market (and honestly in a way everything IS a clone of something 
 anyways) , MKA really shines more than anything I have seen lately.
  
  Very deep skill system that compliments each class appropriately. At first the game seemed TOO 
 linear, but after the first act (6 acts in all) , the game seemed to start to open up.
  
  Some cities are really well done, although they could have created a few more NPC vendors to separate 
 goods better.
  
  Herb gathering and then making your own potions works really well. I like it alot and was about 
 to toss it into the crap bin until I decided to give it a chance past the first act, glad I did 
 =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mihai101103
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 5, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  This game isn't that bad , in fact is pretty god - looking at the complexity of the game , even 
 if is an hack &amp; slash type -it has : special forging , lots of recipes which create from potions 
 to explosive , the way u advance in skill is pretty original ..... Merchants have over 45 pages 
 of items - which can form all sort of sets - tens of different herb to mix , scroll , special items 
 At first i watch this game like : so they maked another Rpg -so what and i play it just to waste 
 time - but the more i played - the more i felt addicted to it -&gt; the second day - my girlfriend 
 and me lost 8 hours of college just to play Mage Knights Apocalypse - i really like it . So don't 
 read all this stupid comments of others - play it and u 'll love it too - P. S. if my spelling isn't 
 so great plz excuse me , but what matters is that u don't miss this game :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XVoltiareX
Rating: 3.8
Date: Oct 5, 2006 10:23 am PT
Review:  After staying away from many games for some time I decide I would try a new game. To my horror 
 i had to be Mage Knights... the most enjoyable parts of the game is when your not playing... listen 
 to speak and watching movies... The camera angles and direction is horrible, you spend most of 
 your time trying to find out what shot you, the character controls makes you feel like some programmer 
 decided to make the game harder by adding a few annoying aspects to it. There is TONS of errors 
 in the game, its almost unbelievable that the company would risk so much to rush out a game that 
 can barely run on the most common computers... I must *clap* for InterServ Int. for their bravery. 
 The game starts out you choose 5 class and old fashion hack a slash with some interest aspects 
 such as a profession system ect. The games graphics are sadly its highest attribute and they are 
 nothing compared to many games coming out today. Expect tons of random crash and bugs, and have 
 a fun time understanding the terrain since some grass patches tend to be impassable, that, with 
 the amazing camera makes travel remind of trips were kids are always asking, Are we there yet? 
 and you get frustrated finally and scream at them to shut up.
  
  On an intersting note the bugs even decide to show up as you un-install the game as it decide to 
 revert all my drivers on my computer, lucky I had back ups.
  
  Overal the game has some interesting ideas and characters but the quality of the game is horrible, 
 I would be embarrassed to any company that released this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abigor6
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 2, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  yeah sure... graphic is good (especially when you have the right hardware)
  the sound is pretty solid, the openning movie kicks you right in the plot
  the fact that the 
 game is based upon the mege knight worid from the wizkids games is nice and refreshing....
  
  if i would to pick the best i like in the game it would be blindly the graphics, the game looks 
 good, even very good comparing to other RPG games current to date.
  
  beside that the game seem the same as the others nothing new, the game plot is nothing of a fresh 
 and thriling, the monsters and the surrounding looks a lot like WOW the leveling &amp; skill system 
 is very similar to dungeon siege. this game borrowed a few tricks and things from every PRG game
 
  (sacred, titan quest, dungeon siege, diablo)
  in some aspects it even feels as a cheap copycat.
  i whould not say it's not fan game to play 
 thought, but you get bored very quickly if you are one of those looking for some deep storyline 
 or a vast world to explore.
  
  but what really got me is the little bugs and glitches in the game that makes it look really bad 
 like a pre released beta version.
  first there is no AI camera control which becomes very annoying when you fight multiple enemies. 
 you have to rotate the camera manually.
  second, when you soot an enemy with a raged weapon his life drained even before the weapon hits, 
 so if you use an area effect weapon near him
  and he moves, you still hit!
  3rd, there are some problem with quests, if you take a side quest, it appears you can go speak 
 to the main quest character until you complete it
  
  button line is, if not for the game's surprisingly good graphic and the nice 3d envoroment &amp; 
 the fact that it has 5 pretty interasting and unique playble characters
  i whould consider it a cheap ''wanna be...''
  
  would i recommend it, well it depends if you 
 absolutly adore hack &amp; slash then yes, but if you prefer a deeper gameplay and a complex world 
 and charactes to explore (like oblivion, neverwinter nights) a would say wait for neverwinter 2.
 
  
  -AbiGoR 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendBear
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 1, 2006 9:22 pm PT
Review:  After installing, I had the CD version which came on 6 cds and after taking a considerable amount 
 of time to install, I was then forced to download a pretty big patch and after the patch installed, 
 gave me several black screens and nothing.... after the third try the game finally loaded and since 
 then, has worked flawlessly so i'm thinking it does some sort of graphic caching the first time 
 you run the game or something.... also, with my gamepad plugged in, the main character would run 
 in a circle until I unplugged it.
  
  Ok, to the game.... been there done that comes to mind, Diablo series, sacred series, Divine Divinity 
 series and so for, its pretty much very similar to all the others that have preseeded it, not thats 
 a bad thing since if the concept works then milk it to death...
  
  After picking one of the 5 legendary characters ranging from a dwarven gunner through to a female 
 vampire you enter the game and start hacking away and building up your character, this is done 
 slightly differently to others since the main exp you get is by constantly using your favorite 
 skills, this is what governs your main character class as such. Each character has 3 subclass archtypes 
 which over some more depth to the game such as the vampires archtype option is an assassin.
  
  Overall, not a bad game. Some bugs, but its interesting and with a few patches could give some 
 hardcore rpgers some fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kithana
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 1, 2006 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Sounds like Riddick got hit with the Saitek prob, on their forum they mention this Saitek keyboard 
 and any gamepad plugged in might cause the spinning issue. I started out with the Vampire Kithana 
 character (hence the handle) and am having fun. So far this game is scratching my RPG itch nicely. 
 I agree the story is crown jewel here, but the graphics are nice too. Skill-wise I've only played 
 one character so far so can't say what others are like, but the Vampire has got some unique gameplay 
 that is fun to use. She sucks blood magically out of enemies and uses stealth to sneak around so 
 she doesn't get beat up too much. The crafting is a bit light in its implementation, not a real 
 challenge here, but some of the potions look like they might be worth the effort, honestly havent 
 done much of this so far. After about 3-4 missions I have a handful of these magestones you get 
 from enemies, they let you buff up your equipment and armor, but what's new is that you can keep 
 using them over and over, so when you get a new weapon, you just pull the stones out of your old 
 weap and drop 'em in your new one. There's definitely some homage going on here but not so blatant 
 as we all saw in Titan, nonetheless I clearly smell some Diablo, Norrath, Ultima and other things 
 in there with the look and the crafting and the skills, but it's all good. This is not a full review 
 though I'm only a few hours into this game, but was reading up some of the resposnes here and thought 
 I'd drop my 2 cents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hawkeye2272
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 1, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  So far I've played several hours of MKA. Overall it's got a lot of potential and pretty nice graphics 
 but it appears to have been poorly bug tested. I have crashed directly to the desktop twice after 
 about an hour or so of play and have heard of others crashing before they can even get in. They 
 have patched the game some and it is running better now than it was. My lag is now gone, which 
 was caused by some game problem (I have at or above recommended and adjusting graphics had had 
 no effect whatsoever) . However there are still plenty of things to fix, i. e. my dwarf ally having 
 a can't find string (4) appear in a dialog box over his head while he rambles off some line from 
 a quest I never got during a mission in an entirely separate area. The dialog, while a little odd 
 in some parts, is generally good and the skills are greatly varied. This adds a lot of replay ability 
 when going through the game again as a different character. The camera is a bit clunky but it's 
 easy to adjust to and not a big deal, in my opinion. The music and sounds are pretty good, although 
 when your allies speak it can be difficult to hear them if they're lagging behind you. In short, 
 I would recommend this game, especially if you are a fan of Mage Knights, but maybe give it atleast 
 a few more weeks to get some patches out on more of the larger bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gregrout
Rating: 4.3
Date: Oct 1, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  There's a lot to not like about this title. First there's the 45 minutes it takes to install the 
 game from 6 CDs (should have been a DVD game) . There's a lot of interface issues, but by far the 
 most frustrating and irritating component of this interface has to be the camera control. Everything 
 and I mean everything is manual. You will spend most of your time lining up the camera angle so 
 you can see what is going on. This design destroys this game and is the most nerve grinding feature 
 of it. Had they fixed the camera or added an option for an auto-camera feature then you would have 
 a half decent game here. Instead of getting into the game, you spend a good chunk of it directing 
 the visuals. So if you're looking for a simulation of what it would be like to be Peter Jackson 
 directing Lord of the Rings IV, this title is right up your alley. If you want a fun RPG, look 
 elsewhere, this game will just leave you frustrated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: owenx
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 30, 2006 10:46 pm PT
Review:  The history resembles some kind of Diablo style mixed with some kind of NWN graphics including 
 the 4 characters to choose.
  
  At the beginning of the game you can see and incredible scenario, however when you start controlling 
 the characters the experience goes completly to the trash... Why?
  
  Cuz even when it looks amazing the combat style and the controls are just too slow, you just get 
 bored of watch those lazy skills or those slowly hits after you hit or smash something.
  
  So for me i was hoping a good game for the kind of promos the homepage has but.. i got completely 
 disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mismajor99
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 13, 2006 8:38 am PT
Review:  I am thoroughly enjoying MKA and I find the storyline and game-play features in this RPG to be 
 very engaging. Graphics are pleasant, and I would consider them average and manage to get the job 
 done. The voice-overs are average at best and also nothing to write home about but, again, they 
 get the job done. The sound overall is good. The one issue I have with this game is the camera 
 control. It would be nice to allow a free-camera mode, which I have yet to find, so I find myself 
 always having to adjust the view with the middle-mouse button. I am getting used to it, but it's 
 something you have to overcome. It would be nice to have this patched somehow. Other than that, 
 I find the game to be a lot of fun. I like the leveling up system which is based on your actions 
 and how you decide to play. For instance, if you use the fire spells for the Draconum Mage, those 
 skills will be advanced rather than the others, depending on how long you use them. I happen to 
 like this system, but some might not. It would be nice to enlarge some of the menus, for your inventory 
 and such, but this might be able to be done through a patch. I haven't had any problems with the 
 controls, so I cannot comment on the problems some people are having with the Saitek Keyboard. 
 All in all I am thoroughly enjoying this game and I find that the story keeps my interests high 
 and gives a sense of a real world that you are living in. I find that the characters are refreshing 
 from your everyday RPG. There also seems to be some replay value with this game since you can decide 
 to go through the game with different characters, which are all very different from each other 
 with entirely different spells and other attributes that are only available to each individual 
 character . I have yet to check out the multi-player aspect of the game, but from what I understand 
 , it's more like a co-op experience. Even without the multi-player aspect, I would still recommend 
 this game. I don't find this as a button mashing game, but you will be doing some mouse clicking 
 through the game, that is for sure. I am only a few hours into this game and I am looking forward 
 to the rest. If you are itching for an action RPG, I would recommend this game to all people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poppen695
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 29, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  This game so far has been great. I haven't had any problems at all with the game after about 4 
 hours of play. Granted I didn't have a Saitek keyboard (but if I did I think I like to think I would 
 have been smart enough to unplug it and try a different keyboard for a day or two until it get's 
 patched.) The patch.. wow yeah.. real big...33mb. Who the heck was this previous reviewer trying 
 to fool by saying this was a big patch? .. Hmm.. must be on 14.4 dial up I suppose. You want a big 
 patch... go install WoW from a Prod CD and have at it. Anyway back to the first REAL review here. 
 The problems with the camera controls are a little odd at first but you pick them up fairly quickly. 
 I didn't even notice myself controlling them after about 30 mins. The graphics are excellent. I'm 
 playing in 1920x1200 with a few mods to the INI files and it looks wondeful. No.. it's no Oblivion.. but 
 it's on par with anything else out right now in it's genre. The gameplay it lively and keeps you 
 interested. It's not a finger-breaking clickfest like TQ or Diablo, but you will do some clicking. 
 The skills are varied and have to be used with thought or you will not succeed in most encounters. 
 The different characters are divese enough that I'm still not sure which one I want to go long-haul 
 with... probably Vampire at this point.
  
  Anyway... any fans of the genre will find this a very good showing and fresh surprise. And if you 
 are bright enough to plug in a different keyboard until the next patch comes through you probably 
 won't have a lot of issues.... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
