-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Magic: The Gathering - Battlegrounds
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/mtgbattlegrounds/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  9, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.9
Critic Score: 7.0, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 294 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Secret Level
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Nov 18, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Magic: The Gathering - Battlegrounds could have benefited from a better interface, but at its core, 
 it's still a decent game. 

  The popular collectible card game Magic: The Gathering has already made its way to the video game 
 world on a few different occasions. The more successful forays have been pretty faithful to the 
 original card game, but so far, attempts to expand the world of Magic: The Gathering beyond electronic 
 representations of the card game have been failures. Atari and Secret Level are the latest publisher/developer 
 duo to take on the popular franchise with Battlegrounds, a real-time game that takes pages from 
 the Magic: The Gathering playbook but attempts to spin them in a faster-moving fashion. The resulting 
 product hits a few minor snags here and there, but it's still a fairly successful transition for 
 the long-running card game.  

          With five spell colors and 14 spells in each color, you'll have a lot of different options 
 to choose from.     

  While Battlegrounds certainly starts out in the same world as the original card game, it makes 
 several changes to the rules of the game, which is natural when you consider that the card game 
 is a slow, turn-based affair and Battlegrounds is more of a real-time strategy game. For starters, 
 the game doesn't really have anything to do with cards at all. Instead of drawing and discarding 
 cards, your spell book, which is limited to 10 spells, is available at all times. The card game 
 uses land cards to give you spellcasting points. In Battlegrounds, you simply run around and collect 
 mana spheres and shards and use them to create creatures, cast spells, and so on.  

  The game takes place in an arena that basically looks like a fantasy-themed take on a volleyball 
 court. Each duelist stands on his or her side of the arena, and you can run around to collect mana 
 and to cast spells. Spellcasting is handled with three buttons or keys, though if you have more 
 than three of any one type of spell, you'll have to scroll through pages to get to all of your 
 options. While the spellcasting system is passable, it's been lifted directly out of the console 
 version. The clunky nature of scrolling through your creature list takes more time than it should 
 in such a fast-moving game. When you consider that your spell book is always changing as you pick 
 and choose different spells to bring into battle, you really have to keep an eye on the book to 
 make sure you're casting the proper spells. Since you can only have 10 spells at a time, one-button 
 access to them via, say, the number keys would have been a helpful addition. Instead, the manual 
 recommends that you play with a gamepad, which doesn't really help matters. The game contains five 
 different sets of spells, each broken up by color. Black spells tend to be destructive in nature, 
 while white spells are of a defensive nature, and so on. Each set contains 14 spells, and you can 
 create your spell book by using one or two different colors.  

  The objective in a Battlegrounds match is to eliminate the other duelist. Each one starts with 
 20 hit points and features a weak melee attack and shield. Your caster starts out with a small 
 amount of mana, but mana power-ups that increase your maximum mana appear on the field. Each spell 
 you cast has a mana cost. Spells fall into three categories. Creatures are the most common spells. 
 Casting a creature spell creates a creature, which then lumbers over to the other side of the arena 
 to attack. If it encounters an enemy creature, the two creatures fight until one or both creatures 
 are dead. The damage system for creature fights is simple. Each creature has an attack strength 
 and a specific number of hit points. The stronger creature wins the fight, though the attack strength 
 of the losing creature is subtracted from the victorious creature's hit points. Enchantment and 
 sorcery spells usually have an effect on how your creatures behave. The red spell Gratuitous Violence, 
 for example, doubles the damage of your creatures. Haste makes your creatures move more quickly. 
 Some spells have a direct effect on the enemy, though. The green spell Tranquility cancels out 
 an opponent's enchantments. Scorching Missile, a red attack spell, simply hurls a fireball at the 
 enemy caster, thus causing four points of damage. The number of spells and disciplines offers multiple 
 options and strategies to choose from.  

  Battlegrounds is really at its best as a multiplayer game, but you'll have to jump through some 
 single-player hoops to get the most out of the multiplayer offering. The game has a lengthy quest 
 mode that takes you through all of the different spell disciplines. You'll unlock spells as you 
 play, and you can take that quest character online. The game also has a single-player arcade mode 
 that lets you choose from a number of preset characters and spell books. Beating this mode unlocks 
 more characters to choose from. You can use these characters online as well, so you'll still have 
 some online options available if you decide to skip out on the quest mode, though these options 
 aren't quite as customizable as those of your own personal duelist. The quest mode also doubles 
 as a tutorial, and it does a reasonably good job of showing you the ropes as it ramps up in difficulty. 

  The AI opponents in the game tend to become a little predictable over time, but, thankfully, the 
 game has a two-player mode either over a LAN or on the same machine, as well as online support 
 via an in-game chat and player matching interface. The game works well over the Internet, and lag 
 never had any impact on any of the games we played over a standard DSL connection. The game keeps 
 track of rankings in several different categories, so you can see who the best overall players 
 are, as well as the best players for each spell discipline.  

          Battlegrounds may bear the Magic: The Gathering name, but anyone can figure it out with 
 a little practice.     

  The game renders spell effects well, but the models used for the creatures and duelists are fair, 
 at best. The movement animation for the creatures looks especially jittery and underdeveloped. 
 Still, the game does manage to keep up a smooth frame rate, even when both sides of the arena are 
 full of battling creatures and fiery spell effects, which is nice. The sound department holds up 
 its end of the bargain about as well as you would expect, but it doesn't really stand out. The 
 voices used to call out spell names as they're cast are solid, and the various other effects are 
 good too.  

  Magic: The Gathering - Battlegrounds could have benefited from a better interface, but at its core, 
 Battlegrounds is still a decent game. People who are slightly familiar with the basics of the card 
 game will take to the action a little faster, but, with a little practice and help from the quest 
 mode's hints, even someone completely unfamiliar with the source material can understand the spells. 
 It isn't the most strategic form of Magic: The Gathering, but if you're a Magic fan who is interested 
 in more action-oriented games, Battlegrounds is a fair choice.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: coolcats1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 8:50 am PT
Review:  i can just start this off with magic the gathering battlegrounds might be fun, and hard at the 
 same time but i think magic the gathering should just stay a card game. when i first played this 
 i thought it looked pretty nice. but when i stated battling i didnt know any of the kebourd controls, 
 my point ( the games controls are very confusing) or mabe i just suck at computer games! im not 
 really sure. but anyway this game has some pretty sick graphics and characters but is very hard 
 to play, and the storyline is hard to understand too. but i like the weapons, and backrounds the 
 most. thats probably the only thing i like about this game. but i believe they should of put, more 
 blood, and gore into it, that was kinda dissapointing. but if your good with a computer and a keybourd 
 i recommend this game. but if your not you will like the graphics and weapons. ( trust me) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smchacko
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  =========== What's a CCG ? ==========
  
  Magic: the Gathering is a very popular Collecible Card Game (CCG) from 1993. It has 50+ expansions 
 to the pool unique cards. 
  
  In the table-top card game, two players represent planeswalkers (wizards) each with a deck of cards 
 containing spells. Players select their own deck contents (according to their play style) from 
 1000's of available cards in 5 colors (blue, black, white, red, green) . Players alternate turns 
 and draw from their decks, bringing creatures and effects into play to knock their opponent from 
 20 to 0 life points.
  
  ======== Magic Battlegrounds Review =======
  
  Those without knowledge of the card game may as well steer clear of this title because the play 
 will probably seem odd and unsatisfying. Magic players looking for an experience close to the table 
 game, also steer clear; Battlegrounds has the same framework, but works in real-time (no timing 
 rules) .
  
  I'm familiar with the card game and found Battlegrounds to be really fun. The quests are a good 
 mix of action and puzzle solving and are short, so the pacing is excellent. The graphics are on 
 the low end but they get the job done. The keyboard controls are clunky ; a "point and click" interface 
 would have been far better.
  
  Story mode look around 10 - 12 hours, a few quests were very difficult. The story is shallow (shown 
 in quick cut-scenes) but factors little into the gameplay. I only played story mode, but multiplayer 
 plays similarly against human players online.
  
  ==== Gameplay ====
  
  In the story mode, take the role of a female planeswalker looking to rescue her mentor "Thea". 
 There are 5 main chapters, each chapter contains many sub-quests. Each chapter ends with a boss. 
 After that, there are some higher level boss battles to complete the story.
  
  As quests are completed, the player gains new spells. There are around 70 in total in Battlegrounds. 
 
  
  Each player appears on one side of a "field" (like tennis) . Stepping into an opponent's side causes 
 damage. Mana (energy to use resources) refills slowly during the battle. Mana is used to bring 
 in creatures and cast spells. Each player attempts to reduce their foe from 20 to 0 life points.
 
  
  ==== Spell book ===
  
  Story mode, begins with 1 spell, but more are learned as quests are completed. There are multiple 
 ways to complete a quest but usually, each quest will require players to use a few key cards in 
 the right combination.
  
  ==== Creatures ====
  
  Creatures can be cast onto the field. When they spawn, they head for the player, unless intercepted 
 by an opponent's creature. Some creatures have special abilities.
  
  ==== Creature Abilities ====
  
  Flying - Only other flyers can intercept this creature
  First 
 Strike - If this creature's attack is greater or equal to an opposing creature's defense, the opposing 
 creature deals no damage in return.
  Regenerate - when this creature respawns, it's caster drains 2 mana (if available) and the creature 
 respawns fully healed.
  Trample - When this creature faces another creature and survives, it continues towards the opponent 
 instead of respawning.
  "Reach" - This ground creature may block flyers.
  "Lifelink" - When this creature deals damage, its caster gains that much life.
  Haste - This 
 creature moves faster.
  Other - there are many creatures with their own unique abilities.
  
  ==== Enchantments ====
  
  Players may only have 2 enchantments "active" at a time (unlike 
 the card game) . This can be two of the same enchantment. Some examples are "Liability": (black) 
 when a s creature dies, it's caster loses 1 life. "Gratuitous Violence": (red) creatures deal double 
 damage from attacks. "Pendrell Mists": (blue) opponent loses 1 mana when his/her creatures respawns.
 
  
  === Sorceries ====
  
  These are spells that have various effects and can be played any time with the mana available. 
 Some examples are "Wrath of God": (white) destroy all creatures. "Scorching Missle": (red) Deal 
 4 damage to opponent. "Giant Growth": (green) until it respawns, the closest creature of the caster 
 gets +3 attack and +3 defense.
  
  ==== Melee Attacks ====
  
  Planeswalkers have a melee attack which deals one damage to a creature or player. This can be effective 
 as an emergency attack, or to finish off a pesky creature. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abridgers71
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 27, 2007 4:18 am PT
Review:  I picked this up in a bargain bin for $5. I've never been a Magic fan, so I really didn't know 
 what to expect; I was just bored of the same old shooters that take SOOO much time to work through. 
 It's nice to play a game that I can get in and out of in 5-10 minutes of fun. I was pleasantly 
 suprised at the way the game is played, but, since I've never played the card game, I got STOMPED 
 alot b/c I just don't really understand it's strategy and how to maximize attacks and defenses. 
 It's a pretty neat game, but the keyboard interface is a little tricky to figure out how to use 
 in a fast action game. For example, when you cast spells or summon, you have to not only hit the 
 right key, you have to figure out how to pick the one you want - it's a beginner's curve thing 
 that takes some getting used to. I cant' imagine how you would play this on a controller..... but 
 then again I'm a keyboard jockey and don't use anything but a wheel for racing games. The basic 
 selection of characters is colorful and decently powered. I still get beaten into the dirt regularly, 
 but that could also be because I don't know what the heck to pick and how to use the people effectively.
 
  It's a fun game for a quick beat 'em up battle in Arcade or Vs mode (especially if you want to 
 see what the computer would do against your attacks/defenses and you want to see how IT uses the 
 combinations of spells and boogie men.) Overall, it was worth the bargain bin price, but I wouldn't 
 spend $20+ on it. -especially since I don't know jack about the Magic system of battle. If you're 
 already up to speed on Magic you'll probably have some fun watching all kinds of characters and 
 monsters come to life and enjoy the 3D fights. I can imagine (only imagine b/c I haven't managed 
 to get there yet!) that the upper level monsters and spells are pretty neat and real buttkickers! 
 The graphics are pretty good for this type of game (one on one side-scrolling fighting is notorious 
 for crappy graphics, but this isn't the case here) and since it's older, any machine can run it 
 with high graphics and not worry about any response drags. It looks like the game is compatible 
 with just about ANY machine made in the past 7-8 years, so if you've got an old box, you can still 
 get a kick out a game you may not have played b/c almost every game in existence calls for super-powered 
 giganto-boxes! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shants
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 15, 2006 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Another dimension to the traditional card game of the world's number one Trading Card Game. It 
 features the usual spell casting but with a twist; you get to see the creatures in live action. 
 Although the spells are not that much, it is good enough for the game to enjoy. Although a little 
 bit hard at first, once you get the right combination of spells, the joy in winning is really liberating. 
 Each A. I. duelist has its own strength and weaknesses so it is up to you not only to find the right 
 combination but also the order of casting your spells. I, a couple of times played at least 20 
 times against a duelist, but in the end, found the right combination to defeat him. To sum it all 
 up, its a great and challenging game. Needs a little bit of patience (my brother got frustrated 
 playing because he cannot seem to get past some duelist in the game) but overall, it is really 
 an exciting and challenging game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chutup
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 15, 2006 11:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is really sweet, don't listen to all the other reviews, they all say its too difficult 
 because they can't cope with more than one thing on the screen at once. If you're really uncoordinated 
 and crap at games you might want to give this a miss. The thing is some people find it very difficult 
 to watch the battle and the menu you use to select your spells. I find it very easy. 
  This game makes a great real time version of magic the gathering, and it really feels like the 
 card game, you can still play creatures, build dekcs and use 133+ combos if you have teh skillz. 
 
  There aren't too many cards to use unfortunately but those you can use are all really tactical 
 and stuff.
  The graphics are fairly good and so is the sound, neither are too great. The story is actually 
 not too bad and playing with your friends is really fun. Don't listen to those fools who bash this 
 game it is the bomb! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RadioactiveG
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 12, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Although its gameplay is far of being superb and even much annoying sometimes, Magic: Battlegrounds 
 has somthing in it that can drag you into it in a very enjoyable way. After getting the principles 
 of the gameplay you can hardly leave this game, and find yourself wasting a decent time with an 
 idiotical, but very enjoyable, game.
  
  Magic - The Gathering: Battlegrounds is a game of dueling opponents using magics of a specific 
 magic essence (Red [instant] , Green [growth] , White [life] , Black [death] and Blue [manipulating] ) .
 
  Each rival has its own half of the duel arena, and crossing the other side cost him with his life. 
 There for the duelers summon magical creatures which cross the arena in purpose to harm the enemy 
 duelist. The summoned creatures can be improved by their duelist by a spell or be harmed by the 
 enemy duelist.
  All occurs real-time, so the most reasonable way to defend yourself from most of creatures is to 
 summon a creature of your own to fight them. Each duelist has its own creatures he can summon and 
 spells he can cast on them, based on its magical color essence.
  
  The game offers the Quest mode, which learns you the basics of the game. Like many other games, 
 you can handle yourself pretty well alone without a quest guidance, but in order to master all 
 the different colors of magic (which makes the whole point of the game) - completing the whole 
 learing chapters of the quest provides it in the best way.
  Progressing the learing quest will make you earn new spells you can use in order to creat new "Spellbooks" 
 - custom duelist with chosen magic color and spells set.
  Creating "Spellbooks" is kind of the top-aim of the game, besides finishing the whole quest and 
 the Arcade Duel mode (regular duel courses against regular duelists) . You can use your own Spellbook 
 in the practical (last) chapter of the quest, the Arcade Duel mode, all other modes as well, and 
 most important - in the Multiplayer mode. You can duel other players with your own created Spellbook.
 
  
  The game's conventional estimation parameters are not glittering. The graphics has nothing exciting 
 nor impressive. The sound is also banal and concludes very foolish characters taunts. The music 
 however is very nice.
  But it's the gameplay idea we're talking about here. It is pretty innovative, cute, pretty challenging, 
 and very enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThieveryCo
Rating: 3.1
Date: Feb 22, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  First: If you've been an big fan/player of the original card game: Magic The Gathering, don't even 
 bother to buy this game. The gameplay is disappointing since it is in RTS instead of being turn 
 base. This pace of the action is so fast, you cannot even use any strategy while in combat. The 
 spells are really limited and don't even recall a bit the original game. Finally, after an hour, 
 you learn all your keys by heart and don't bother looking at the game... it's almost a game to 
 help you to learn you typing on the keyboard. 
  
  The only positive side of this game is that no matter how much the game is disappointing, it's 
 still a small (really small) compensation for anyone you miss the good old card game. Since I just 
 bought the game in 2006, and it's a 1997 game, it cost me less than 10$ on the net. If you wanna 
 try, it's not a big risk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 14, 2005 9:02 am PT
Review:  This game isn't good for those who want to fight creatures and I will tell you why. It's with cards!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
 
  
  Gameplay: This is the wrost thing about this game. You play with cards like yugioh and you defete 
 monsters. it is sucks.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are beautiful. The creatures look exelent and the magic looks fantastic.
 
  
  Sound: The sound is classic. I want to feel like I'm fighting someone.
  
  Value: You can upgrade you spells everytime you win a battle and you can play online against your 
 friends.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall the cards fighting fans will love this game and the fans that like a fighting 
 game with a combo system like tekken or doa then don't get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amok
Rating: 3.1
Date: Dec 10, 2003 10:30 am PT
Review:  Based on the popular MtG card game, this ill-conceived version of the elemental dueling system 
 fails to meet this reviewer's expectations. I had anticipated a graphically entertaining version 
 of the 2D card game a'la the old Battle Chess game. However, Battlegrounds is off the mark when 
 it comes to 'clearing the bar'.
  
  Primarily at fault is the sluggish interface. Not only is the player at a disdvantage reflex-wise, 
 but even when negotiating deck set-up and game options, the interface proves cumbersome.
  
  Once the player trudges through the interface mire, he has to deal with the fixed speed of the 
 game's duel system. I had difficulty perceiving my own actions because one is too wrapped up with 
 trying to cast spells from the deck to see what is actually transpiring on the battlefield. Tactics 
 fall by the wayside as one struggles to keep up with the pace that the AI opponent sets. I shudderto 
 think what chaos insues when two people duel in VS mode.
  
  Hardcore MtG or real-time pseudo-strategy players may find this game a temporary gaming fix, but 
 this reviewer recommends passing it by completely. It will save much frustration. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
