-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Magic: The Gathering
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/magicthegathering/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  3, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 8.0, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 446 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Genre: Card Battle
Date:     Feb 28, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This translation looks beautiful and plays decently. 

 The incredibly popular card game Magic has spawned yet another computerized offspring, but this 
 time it's the long-awaited adaptation from MicroProse. With the recent release of two translations 
 of the same card game, it seems as if Magic's popularity will continue to grow as it moves from 
 a printed to an electronic medium.   

 For those of you who have never played the card version, here's the story: You assume the role of 
 a wizard with a deck of magical cards consisting of creatures, spells, and mana-rich lands. The 
 more lands you control, the more mana (magical energy) you have at your disposal, and therefore 
 the more powerful spells you can cast. OK, it's not an easy game to learn, but herein lies the 
 real beauty of MicroProse's translation: Anyone who has played the card game can jump into MicroProse's 
 adaptation immediately. For the beginners, MicroProse has included a detailed tutorial that will 
 get you up and running with Magic in under an hour, an amazing feat given the complexity of this 
 game.   

 MicroProse's translation allows two types of gameplay: Duel or Campaign. In the Duel mode, you match 
 your custom-built decks against a computer opponent or simply choose from over 60 pre-built decks 
 included in the game. Campaign mode allows for more variety in gameplay. As with most fantasy-based 
 games, your ultimate goal is to defeat the supreme embodiment of evil. In this case, the planeswalker 
 Arzakon wants total control over the land of Shandalar and it is your mission to stop him. The 
 game itself is similar to most hack-and-slash favorites: You travel around Shandalar, visit towns, 
 explore ruins, and so forth. However, the biggest difference lies in the combat system. Instead 
 of slaying a rival dragons and wizards, you challenge them to a game of Magic cards. If you win, 
 you get more cards to add to your deck; if you lose, your opponent takes a card from your deck. 
   

 Although this version is much better than Acclaim's translation of Magic, there are still some disappointing 
 aspects. It is often difficult to control where your character is moving on the large map. The 
 gameplay is rather jerky and it is often difficult to avoid combat. Also, as in many other fantasy 
 games, gameplay is rather repetitive. Every creature you happen upon (and let me tell you, Shandalar 
 is packed with creatures) wants to challenge you to a card duel. It would have been nice to meet 
 some friendly souls on the roads of Shandalar. However, the most disappointing feature in Magic: 
 The Gathering is the lack of multiplayer support. People are just more fun to play than computers, 
 and although MicroProse promises a multiplayer support add-on later this year, it may be too late 
 to satisfy the incredible number of Magic players who have been impatiently waiting for this game. 
   

 These features (or lack thereof) don't take much away from the fun of MicroProse's Magic: The Gathering. 
 This translation looks beautiful, plays decently, and has all the qualities - except the ability 
 to play with other humans - that made the card game a hit.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Ravenhoe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 1:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is really hard to get. It is not being sold and you can hardly find any download sources 
 for the internet. Especially if you are trying to hunt down the various expansions and patchs (both 
 official and inofficial) , so the huntdown of this game is an adventure in itself.
  
  But it is an undertaking worth to be tackled. The game pits you in Shandalar, a randomly generated 
 world (high replay value) swarming with monsters and in danger of being overtaken by 5 wizards, 
 each wizard representing one of the card colours (White, Black, Blue, Green, Red) . While you start 
 out with a set of cards in a colour of your choice, the fun lies in looting monsters or finding 
 or buying additional cards to add to your deck. This way, there are no limits to the deck customization. 
 The cards' artwork is true to the original game, so are the game mechanics. As you might have imagined, 
 the fights in the game are basically a play-out of the card game, which works flawlessly and has 
 lots of strategic depth to it, especially as you will have to adapt your tactics (and your deck) 
 to suit your respective opponents. Add to that the odd quests, encounters and lore and you have 
 yourself a very good gaming experience.
  
  Highly recommended !
  
  Henrik 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 9, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  It's a wild idea that time to convert a CCG into a pc strategy game even if the card game is very 
 popular, cos your target audience is just so limited. For a crazy Magic fan like me, this MicroProse 
 developed pc version is a virtual dream come true. Basically a collectible card game (CCG) requires 
 at least 2 persons to enjoy and this pc version makes that requirement down to just 1. You yourself. 
 It's quite an anti-social approach but hey, now you can even start a match at 4.00 am in the freaking 
 morning.
  
  The features include 1-to-1 matches with self-built deck of 4th edition cards (old-school!) with 
 Alpha rares such as Black Lotus, the Moxes, Time Walk, etc... versus a computer AI using over a 
 dozen pre-built decks.
  
  The other main attraction would be the single-player campaign of Shandalar, where you are in a 
 little RPG world with your character (you can dress him/her up with some crazy clothings and wigs!) 
 running around with Magic cards and defeating evil monsters and wizards with their pouches of Magic 
 cards too! Haha! That's quite silly but it's addictive fun.
  
  The graphics are old-school but depict accurate physical visuals of the Magic cards, makes you 
 wanna buy the real cards! The soundtrack is pretty amazing with some memorable Arabian Nights-influenced 
 fantasy tunes. If you are an old-school Magic fan, MicroProse's Magic: The Gathering may turn you 
 on, IF you still can find this lying around somewhere, and re-live the fun of playing those legendary 
 Magic card combos that make today's Magic community so flourishing.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElvishSpirit
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 2, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Alright, where to begin...... this game is FRIGGIN awesome. Here is my overall review.....
  
  Gameplay - This is where it shines. Not only do you play the card game itself, but you can 
 walk around a wizard world, stoping the five wizards, each one a different color ( White - Holy, 
 Law. Blue - Water, Magic. Black - Unholy, Undead. Red - Chaos, Fire. And Green - Nature, Elfs. 
 ) While winning cards from foes you duel, you can also buy, sell, find, and win cards.
  
  Graphics - Nothing much here. Pretty good for a 1997 game at least.
  
  Sound - Sounds are great. 
 Sounds come up in duels, and when youre walking around.
  
  Replay value - Once again, great. Not only can you build decks freely and do free duels, but you 
 can also use the internet, and in a expanson pack you can do a sealed deck.
  
  Overall, you might see this at a flea market or garage sale for 10 bucks. Trust me, get it. You 
 will most likely have to order it over the internet. Trust me, Ive been playing it for 8ish years, 
 it dosn't loose it's touch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CountElmo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 7, 2006 8:36 pm PT
Review:  I'm an old-school Magic The Gathering player.
  I started about 10 years ago, with 4th edition and Ice Age block for the connoisseurs, when it 
 wasn't that really big of a game as it is now. The amount of cards wasn't that terrible huge, game 
 mechanics were easily taught to beginners because there weren't a gazillion special card mechanics, 
 they were semi-affordable and it was cool to be one of the lucky few who could play back then.
 
  
  The game changed a lot over the years, and to my humble opinion, not for the betterment of the 
 game!
  Once they realised this was a solid gaming and money-making bomb, they started pouring out expansion 
 sets with fewer time in between, adding ever increasing amount of new abilities and game mechanics, 
 grossly overpowered or total crap cards, a design overhaul that made me quit buying, etc etc.
 
  The landmark was when they started putting in these so called foil cards, which were rarer than 
 rare, mimicking the Anime japanese based cardgames rarity pool of common, uncommon, rare, super-rare, 
 ultra-rare, mega-ultra-rare, once in a lifetime-rare and ....... shall I continue?
  
  Then they did the ultimate move: online!
  Now you could play Magic online against opponents from 
 across the globe.
  Hey, it's something this game needed, some we should applaud that move, right? Right?
  NO!
 
  For they made this decision that you had to pay real-life money, as much as it does cost in real-life 
 to own the cards virtually!
  To me they changed in money-hungry monsters, those Wizards of the Coast alltogether.
  
  But 
 let's stop this ranting, and return our focus to this game.
  
  I was in the midst of my Magic career when I stumbled upon this game, and boy was I a happy camper!
 
  Finally I could combine to of my most precious gaming hobbies, cards and computers.
  Even better when I installed this game en checked the cards available, this game was even more 
 old-school than I am, for it contained the Holy Grail of Magic: The Power Nine!
  
  The Power Nine were a set of cards from the very first printing which were amazingly good, and 
 a bit broken.
  They could kill an opponent by turn three.
  I was even more excited to notice that this game contained cards from 4th edition to below.
  
 With such power at hand, my hands turned sweaty.
  
  Now, this game has two modes.
  The standard duel mode were you battle against a computer opponent, and an adventure mode, were 
 you are a magic warlock trying to free the lands of Shandalar from the 5 archwizards and the Ultimate 
 Evil, if I recall correctly, Azarkon.
  
  The Duel mode is just like real-life. Just laying cards to beat your opponent.
  That alone was 
 a welcome addition to computer gaming.
  But the adventure mode was interesting too.
  
  When you started you had to pick your skill level, and what colour of deck you wanted. There are 
 five colours of magic: white, green, red, blue, and black. White magic is that of healing and light, 
 green represents the forces of nature, red signifies chaos and fire, blue is the colour of water 
 and thought, and black embodies death and decay.
  Each colour had its archwizard whom you had to defeat, in order to weaken Azarkon. However, the 
 lands of Shandalar were bursting with monsters and henchmen you could duel, each pledging allegiance 
 to their respective coloured masters, and they roamed in the colours chosen landmass: swamps, forests, 
 mountains, plains and islands.
  By defeating the minions you also weakened the wizards.
  
  All across the lands there are villages whom need your help. They want you to defeat a wandering 
 monster, give something to another village or give you clues to dungeons holding powerfull cards 
 to add to your collection and deck. They also sell cards according to the lands they are in.
  
  However, this is not an easy task. You start with a crude basic deck, which you can expand 
 by dueling monsters and taking cards as prizes, buying it from the villages or exploring a dungeon 
 to get a hold of the treasures within or stumbled upon a stash or monsters lair.
  Little by little you can develop a good library to choose from and assemble a few decks to conquer 
 the lands.
  You'll need it, for there's no 1 deck to rule them all, you'll need a few decks so you can change 
 tactics according to the type of decks your facing.
  
  The controls of the adventuring parts are sometimes a bit quirky, not reacting to well, monsters 
 can be way to powerful for you sometimes, and the wizards have an unfair advantage over you. You 
 start with 10 life, they have 30!
  Later on you can acquire more life, and you'll need it.
  
  This game, and even more its successors and expansions add a lot of pleasure to it. Later expansions 
 add even more cards, necessary tweaks and sealed deck tournaments and multiplayer (which is obsolete 
 by now, too bad) .
  
  Occasionally I install it on my computer to indulge in the duelling part, for it is ever so entertaining, 
 and a dream to have such a cardpool to choose from without paying for them! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 10, 2006 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Magic is a popular game that has swept the card battle network. While the card game is a lot of 
 fun, the pc game does not live up to the series at large. It is a good translation of the card 
 game into an electronic format, but it is missing out on so many features.
  
  If you are unfamiliar with the game, there are five types of cards: forest, fire, dark, light, 
 and water. With these cards, you have creatures, artifacts, enchantments, lands, instants, and 
 sorceries. You play on a turn based system with a pre-phase, draw phase, main phase, battle phase, 
 2nd main phase, and end phase. There are restrictions on cards depending on their power and fairness 
 of using the cards (like a creature that is virtually indestructible and too easy to put down on 
 the table) .
  
  The biggest missing piece is the online play. It was 97-98, but people still had internet access 
 and could have fun with this online. In addition, the graphics bog down when animations appear 
 and the sound is poor (but what do you expect from a card battle game) .
  
  I say look at the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoldoAsesino
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 25, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  This conversion of Magic is a perfect example of what happened on the last days of Microprose, 
 when the company was dismantled bit by bit, its personnel quitted or was fired, and its games were 
 released while being on a very early stage of design or simply cancelled. Microprose's Magic: The 
 Gathering is terrific, but it has several design and programming problems that are, simply, unforgivable.
 
  I won't explain to you how to play Magic. The game is so popular that probably you already know 
 its rules by heart. In case you haven't got a clue, this version has a 25-minutes interactive video 
 tutorial that does the job effectively. What I must tell you instead is that Microprose managed 
 to transform Magic: The Gathering into a role-playing game. That's surely original and interesting, 
 but don't expect it to be an originality gem, since the RPG setting is an excuse for framing into 
 something the actual card-game duels. Check its plot, or lack of it: you're a lonesome hero that 
 must prevent his world, which is called Shandalar, from being destroyed by the five evil sorcerers 
 that rule the land. There's something about this cheesy kind of plots that I will never understand: 
 if the bad guy wants to destroy the whole world, how would he survive its destruction? Where would 
 he live and rule afterwards? Ok, I'll better quit philosophizing.
  The only way to stop these menaces is to beat them in a Magic duel. But since they are the rulers 
 of each kind of magic (yes, the same ones as your Magic cards: swamp, mountain, island, forest 
 and plains) everyone of them already has the Definitive Deck of Armageddon, while you start the 
 game with... 20 lands and a pair of Tundra Wolves. So, you must construct and upgrade your own 
 deck in the first place, in a similar way as you do it in the real life: acquiring new cards and 
 employing the useful ones while selling your spare ones in order to acquire another new cards. 
 But on Shandalar there's no comic stores to go to buy a Magic booster (and a Clamp comic, and a 
 built-in module for Call of Cthulhu, by the way) . To get new cards, you must successfully complete 
 quests. These quests vary from simply delivering an object from one town to another, beating some 
 bad boy from the meadows that is threatening a town, and hacking dungeons. Win the duel, and you'll 
 win new cards, and perhaps a useful hint or bonus for the next duel. Lose it, and you will lose 
 some cards from your deck. That simple. Of course, every creature has its own deck and, therefore, 
 some of them are more challenging than others. Some of them will prefer a counter blue-and-black 
 deck, some of them will rely on the direct instantaneous damage of red cards, and so on. The dungeons 
 are by far the most interesting quest of them all, since you must actually crawl in an isometric 
 labyrinthine map while discovering treasure chests that contain money and cards and dueling every 
 creature you find on your way. And the dungeons are conceived as a tournament: each of them applies 
 its own set of rules, and your life points must suffice for the whole row of duels you'll find 
 into them.
  Towns are a vital feature of the game. There, you receive your quests and your rewards for completing 
 them, buy food for the travels (you must inexorably feed) , buy and sell cards, and get hints. But 
 they're also vital because each of the bad guys accomplishes its evil plot by conquering two towns. 
 Of course, they don't do it on their own: they send one of their minions to get the job done, lending 
 him a challenging deck by the way. As you can imagine, you can prevent this from happening if you 
 beat the minion on a Magic duel (as you can see, in Microprose's version of Magic everything is 
 done by actually playing the card game) . If you couldn't prevent it, or didn't dare to do so, you 
 can come back later to liberate the town, but I don't recommend letting it for later. Remember 
 that each Ruler of Magic needs only two towns to bring havoc and mayhem to the land.
  There's nothing more to it that this. Go adventuring, upgrade your deck, save the world. So, I 
 will comment some technical features.
  As it was usual on Microprose products, their conversion of Magic has a very high rate of replayability. 
 Every time you begin a game, you must choose an overall difficulty level and a color for your deck. 
 The easiest difficulty level will give you a somewhat nice starter deck, and that will be monochrome 
 (if you understand what I mean) . A higher difficulty will give you worse starter decks, those will 
 be two or three-colored, and your enemies will have better decks. Likewise, the program randomizes 
 the world map with every new game. The cards appear on the screen with their full original artwork 
 in high resolution, and the program permanently guides your moves and checks their legality. The 
 soundtrack is a collection of celtic and Purcellian themes that is very nice to listen and contributes 
 to creating an appropiate atmosphere.
  With all of this said, you may think that this game is unbelievably good. It's not. It has several 
 serious problems, which I will try to explain next.
  One of the most annoying things about it is the fact that the designers have abused from kitsch. 
 It seems that everything in Shandalar must be done the cheesy way. If you don't believe me, watch 
 the tutorial video. If that wasn't enough, wait until the program tells you about the imminent 
 invasion of a town with a... TV news flash. Pathetic. The designers made a great effort to give 
 the game an appropiate atmosphere and then they throw in things like that? A strongly strategic 
 game like Magic is not correlative with that kind of humor.
  Another one is the confusing menu feature. The main menu is very clear and intuitive, but the in-game 
 functions are not accessible by any icons at all. You must read the documentation and remember 
 a set of hotkeys in order to save or load your game, check the world map, or viewing your adventurer's 
 log. I think that these features need to be easily accessible by its own nature; you wouldn't have 
 to memorize, or better guess, how to interact with the interface.
  Another one is the expansion. The Spells of the Ancients expansion is really fundamental, since 
 it completes the somewhat humble card database of the original game with every single Magic card 
 from Alpha to Fifth. It's probably the only thing it does, but it's really a first-priority need. 
 The problem is that, while you're installing the expansion, it checks if you own both the expansion 
 and the original game by reading something on both CDs. For that matter, the setup introduces a 
 key on your system registry that disables Autorun, in order that Autorun doesn't execute itself 
 while you're changing CDs at the setup request. You have followed me until now, haven't you? Well, 
 the annoying fact about it is that the Spells of the Ancients setup, despite it asks for resetting 
 your computer after installation, forgets completely to erase this registry key. So, if you are 
 not accustomed with the system registry and its editor you will be doomed to use Windows without 
 the Autorun feature forever. I don't know if it does the same on every machine, but it does that 
 on my PC and it's completely annoying. This is the kind of programming bugs that later Microprose 
 games have, and they speak loudly about how it was to live on the company in those days of certain 
 doom. Besides those dire straits of financial life, this kind of programming failures have contributed 
 hugely to its dissolution.
  And the last one. Lack of multiplayer. Personally, I'm disgusted with the multiplayer fever of 
 the last ten years. People seem to think that if a game doesn't have multiplayer is not a game 
 at all. I may ask: does every game in the market need multiplayer support? Certainly not, at least 
 in theory; but in the case of Magic it's an unavoidable feature since it's a card game after all. 
 If you want to play this version on multiplayer, you must buy its second expansion, Duels of the 
 Planeswalkers, which only adds to your previous data a tiny piece of code of a few megabytes to 
 let you play online. Since the Duels of the Planeswalkers expansion is otherwise useless and it 
 only works with Spells of the Ancients, it would have been certainly better to include what it 
 does on the previous releases and not forcing you to buy two expansion sets.
  But in spite of all of these problems, this version of Magic is still the best one there is. The 
 newest one, developed entirely by Wizards of the Coast, is only playable online. No single player 
 feature. No AI players to defy in case you're alone. On the other hand, Microprose's older version 
 is terrific for a single player, and it has a really good AI, but it has no multiplayer. Every 
 one of them lacks what the other one has. Nonetheless, Microprose's conversion wins by far in the 
 comparison.
  In sum, the annoying problems and bugs it has doesn't prevent this conversion from being terrific. 
 Give it a try. But be warned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nesh1112980
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 11, 2005 12:07 am PT
Review:  I must admit that I was completely ignorant about Magic: The Gathering card game. I only downloaded 
 this game as a result of a positive review in one gaming magazine. But now, after only couple of 
 days of playing, I am buying the cards to play with my friends and introduce them into this fantastic 
 world. As a player that never played the card game before I found this game to be really interesting, 
 challenging, ant ultimately time-consuming. Although the graphics are a bit simple, especially 
 in world screen when playing the campaign, the first duel will make you forget it. The thing that 
 makes this game so good is it`s "playability". After some time is spent for learning the concepts 
 of the game, you will be pulled into fantastic world of magic that you will never want to leave 
 again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kroloth
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 9, 2005 10:31 am PT
Review:  Magic the Gathering is great. I love the card game and being able to play it alone just makes my 
 day. Being able to see how my deck would work with cards I dont own is also a great plus. Obviously 
 nothing beats playing it in real life, but when you cant do that this game allows you to enjoy 
 it. I really enjoy all the things it can do.. the graphics are simple which allows you to enjoy 
 even a multiplayer game on a standard modem. Id recomend this to anyone who likes the game but 
 doesnt have anyone to play with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CivroN
Rating: 5.8
Date: Oct 27, 2005 6:11 am PT
Review:  I was excited at first arranging my deck and looking at the beatiful art of each of the card but 
 the game where you have to walk around and being chased by really ugly looking and poorly designed 
 enemies is just so annoying. But when you get to the card playing it really is FUN finding a perfect 
 strategy for beating your opponents especially if you just use a 1/1 creature and you make use 
 of a magic card to make it a 5/5 enchanted beast of wrath. Nice and FUN in some ways if you look 
 a little closer and also play a bit longer. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
