-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Magic: The Gathering Online
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/magicthegatheringonline/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  2, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 7.0, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 188 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Wizards of the Coast
Developer: Leaping Lizard
Genre: Card Battle
Date:     Jun 14, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Magic Online is undoubtedly the best software representation of Magic: The Gathering released thus 
 far -- quite possibly surpassing the physical card game in many respects. 

 Wizards of the Coast, the company behind the extremely popular Magic: The Gathering collectible 
 card game, has taken yet another stab at a PC re-creation of the tabletop game. In the past, Wizards 
 has sanctioned the use of a variety of methods to impart the excitement of a duel between players, 
 whether it be with animated versions of card art and characters, or with a gameplay system focused 
 on challenging computer-controlled opponents in order to win cards to add to your collection. This 
 time around, Wizards has enlisted developer Leaping Lizard Software, which has taken a direct, 
 bare-bones approach to delivering an efficient tool that players can use to engage in card duels 
 over the Internet. With Magic Online, you don't get many frills -- just the cards, chat rooms inhabited 
 by other people, and an easy-to-learn, efficient interface that can turn anyone into a competent 
 deck builder and player. It's because of its accessible nature that Magic Online is undoubtedly 
 the best software representation of Magic: The Gathering released thus far -- quite possibly surpassing 
 the physical card game in many respects.           Magic Online's duels remain true to the original 
 card game.    

 You may know that Magic: The Gathering, the card game that Magic Online is based on, is a competitive 
 dueling game in which two or more players face off against their opponents in an attempt to defeat 
 them using a variety of different cards representing magic spells. Each player begins the game 
 with 20 life points, which can be reduced by direct magical assault or by the attacks of summoned 
 creatures that are rated according to their power (the ability to deal damage) and toughness (the 
 ability to withstand damage) . Players can cast enchantments that can have permanent effects, and 
 they can also make use of magical artifacts. Turns pass between players until someone's life total 
 reaches zero, or someone runs out of cards. Achieving victory is based as heavily on technique 
 as on the color or colors of magic chosen. There are five colors of magic: white, green, red, blue, 
 and black. White magic is that of healing and light, green represents the forces of nature, red 
 signifies chaos and fire, blue is the color of water and thought, and black embodies death and 
 decay. In order to tap into these forces, players must make use of natural resources that channel 
 this energy -- plains for white, forests for green, mountains for red, islands for blue, and swamps 
 for black. Play commences with each player drawing a hand of cards, then taking turns placing down 
 land cards, one per turn, and rotating them in order to release mana points, which pay for spells. 
   

  Magic Online isn't the most visually stunning computer game available. In fact, much of what makes 
 up Magic Online seems almost oversimplified from an aesthetic standpoint. The client looks like 
 a Web browser with three major frames, including a chat box on the bottom, left-hand navigation, 
 and a main window. Logging in to your Magic Online account is not unlike entering a collectible 
 card game portal of sorts -- you have access to many different destinations, including game-related 
 Web sites, bug report forms, a moderator and support room, the Magic Online store, your collection 
 manager, a deck editor, clan and league areas, and, of course, the various game rooms.         
   Choose an avatar to play against other players.    

 You select an avatar from a small selection of figures -- including a goblin, wizard, or merfolk -- that 
 represents you in the game rooms. When participating in duels, these avatars go through a few frames 
 of animation, and the overall effect of seeing a bunch of tigers and skeletons seated around a 
 table, engaging in a rousing game of cards, can be humorous to say the least.   

  However, Magic Online does include the complete set of current Magic cards, including the seventh 
 edition of the game and every expansion released since then. Each of the cards includes the original 
 artwork, viewable in three different sizes, as well as the complete rules and flavor text. The 
 illustrations on these cards feature a wide array of talented modern fantasy artists, and it's 
 almost a shame that you can't view the impressive artwork in a gallery of some kind. There's plenty 
 to work with as far as variety goes. There are more than 1,000 cards available in Magic Online, 
 and countless types of decks can be built around their abilities.            Magic Online clearly 
 lays out all of your cards and their abilities.    

 The gameplay takes place on a split playfield, where competing players' cards can be viewed as they 
 are played. Playing a card can be as simple as a single click. Left-clicking generally plays cards 
 from your hand, while right-clicking accesses each card's special abilities. Tooltips and pop-up 
 information boxes relay all the information you'll need concerning a card's abilities, and a handy 
 phases list on the left-hand side of the screen tells you what portion of a player's turn is being 
 played and which cards are playable. In the game's preferences menu, you can select any and all 
 of these phases, which let you set exactly how often you are prompted for confirmation before a 
 player can proceed through the segments of his or her turn.   

  The game's interface is powerful. It lets you sort, organize, and make decks from your cards based 
 on their color, rarity, and mana cost. But it isn't all that easy to pick up -- it can get cluttered 
 at times, and some of the more important icons in the game tend to be a bit too small to see clearly. 
 However, once you get used to it, Magic Online's otherwise intuitive interface allows little room 
 for errors in a game whose history has been filled with player arguments over rules. The Magic 
 Online client itself is a judge. For all intents and purposes, players simply can't break the rules. 
 You're forced to comply with card effects when played, shuffled cards are sorted randomly, life 
 and mana totals are tracked, and the only thing you can really get away with is a mistaken land 
 usage or attack command, for which there is a handy "undo" function that can be used before confirming. 
 Only applicable targets for spells and the like are selectable, so players will always make a legal 
 move.   

  In addition to standard one-on-one constructed-deck games, there are a handful of other match types 
 to explore. Sealed-deck tournaments challenge players to purchase a new deck of cards as starting 
 material and then build a deck to compete against others within an allotted time period. Booster 
 drafts are games where much of a player's winning strategy is employed before a single card is 
 dealt, with players selecting cards from a general pool. The variants for more than two players 
 are particularly entertaining. Emperor and the two- and three-headed giant games let up to six 
 players get together for matches in which cooperative gameplay is necessary.           In addition 
 to casual play, Magic Online also has large-scale online tournaments.    

 What is most significant about Magic Online is its focus on the sale of collectible digital information. 
 The system Magic Online utilizes is much like the one pioneered by the online card game ChronX 
 and THQ's WWF With Authority! Specifically, players pay Wizards of the Coast through the online 
 Magic store for virtual booster packs and decks of cards in order to add to their virtual collection. 
 Purchased packs of cards are sorted randomly, with the same chances of picking out a specific card, 
 such as a holographic foil rare, as when buying a pack of cards over a store counter. Digital cards 
 purchased from the Magic store sell for the same retail price as the physical counterparts, from 
 $3.29 for a booster pack to $9.99 for a theme deck, as well as applicable sales tax. Because of 
 this pricing structure, players will actually be purchasing a gift voucher good for 10 dollars' 
 worth of cards at retail, instead of paying for the freely distributed game client. In fact, Wizards 
 has made the Magic Online client available as a free download -- the catch is that you'll have to 
 buy all the cards yourself.   

  While players aren't receiving any physical goods in the transactions, which at launch require 
 them to be over 18 with access to a major credit card, they are receiving cards that may well become 
 every bit as valuable as those often kept in dusty binders and cardboard boxes. Each card is individually 
 numbered using a secure encryption system and stored remotely, and the online cards can be traded 
 instantaneously and in a safe manner. Instead of having to make a trip to a hobby shop, players 
 can participate in the Magic: The Gathering tournament scene and ranking system online, which are 
 identical to those of the collectible card game in every way, but much more accessible. At any 
 given moment, there may be sanctioned tournaments going on, and players can enter them after purchasing 
 event tickets to earn ranking points and prizes, including packs of cards and cash. Apparently 
 the support that Wizards of the Coast is dedicating to Magic Online is considerable. Every current 
 pro qualifier and scheduled championship tournament will have an online counterpart, with the entire 
 professional scene being made available to players remotely.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: nichavgo
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 11, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  I started playing Magic when I was about eleven or maybe twelve, and it started slowly to grow 
 on me. I like playing it with the physical cards with my friends and when I read about the Online 
 version I decided to give it a try.
  I downloaded it from the Magic page and installed it, it took some time to actualize. I really 
 liked it, even though the graphics or the sound aren't so good, the possibility to play with other 
 people makes it a great game. Beside it's easy to use...
  The only bad thing: it has to actualize every time you run it, and depending on your Internet connection 
 velocity and the time you haven't played it could take a while 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limbodrive
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 4, 2007 1:32 am PT
Review:  This can be a very addictive and expensive venture! At first I was concerned about investing in 
 a game that might leave me with a bunch of cards gone on the net (You have the option of buying 
 actual cards to keep) . The cards can be selected by your playing style. There is incredible art 
 here as well. I jumped on board, being in Wyoming where there is limited game play activity. Here 
 you also can play anytime with an internet connection and this software installed. You can socialize, 
 clan together, or simply challenge to tournament level. I like the trading atmosphere. The major 
 trouble is that this isn't on a fair playing field. You can buy rare powerful cards and whip upon 
 the broke and unlucky players. Granted, the more powerful cards need more mana, but come on, I 
 don't see good odds of using any fresh deck to a high dollar built up one. I get fed up with the 
 limitations where I wonder if a particular card can work in any deck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkbrady
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 14, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Simply put, it is just MTG; they've changed nothing about it really, it's simply just the famous, 
 incredible card game, but you can now play against millions of players globally. Probably the most 
 annoying thing about it is the need to pour money into it if you want to have a good deck, so more 
 ofte n than not the stronger ones or those with more money, and less wealthy players who could 
 potentially be better at the game are limited.
  
  Aside from this you can still have fun though, and with the added 'Clans' feature you can group 
 up with other clan members and have inner clan tournaments or play against people you know. Then 
 of course there are the normal tournaments, complete with prizes and everything, but once again, 
 money is needed.
  
  I wouldn't recommend starting the game without already knowing how to play because there is no 
 tutorial and can be incredibly awkward learning both the rules and how the system works. Although, 
 whether you know how to play or not the system can be very handy because you cannot cheat or break 
 the rules; as the game goes you aer forced to learn and stick by the rules and if you aer ever 
 curious about how something might resolve this can play it out for you. If you know how to play 
 all you need to do is work your way around the rather complex system of things and get used to 
 the ''mistakes are lethal'' aspect of knowing that you can't go back on mistakes, but once you've 
 got it learned you're sorted!
  
  If you can afford to play, or aer comfortable with a very basic deck, go for it! A classic game, 
 a brilliant game, it has all you need to get on with your MTG career and socialise at it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomp814
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 29, 2006 7:35 am PT
Review:  They did it. A Magic Online Game with a ever-growing database of cards. Just like real life!
  Of course, you have to pay for the cards, but the possibility of playing Magic anytime you want 
 compensate any financial problems.
  I have been playing this since 2000, and I have never had any problems yet, in fact, I judge their 
 security and stability to be a good side of the program.
  Besides the online quality, the game is perfect. It stops at every step, you can respond to any 
 spell your opponent casts and even teaches you how to play the game! Its really a wonder!
  Daily championships and draft every hour makes the pro player rejoice and learn about the metagame 
 faster. Sealed and league complement the championship part of the game.
  All in all, a true masterpiece. A game to play forever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 10, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  As far as card battle games go, this one is solid. It perfectly captures the elements of the Magic 
 card battle game and places them into the electronic realm of gaming.
  
  If you are unfamiliar with the game, there are five types of cards: forest, fire, dark, light, 
 and water. With these cards, you have creatures, artifacts, enchantments, lands, instants, and 
 sorceries. You play on a turn based system with a pre-phase, draw phase, main phase, battle phase, 
 2nd main phase, and end phase. There are restrictions on cards depending on their power and fairness 
 of using the cards (like a creature that is virtually indestructible and too easy to put down on 
 the table) .
  
  The game itself lets you connect with others around the world to play and chat. You can set the 
 rules and restrictions so that cheating is at a minimum. This game does not keep out all cheaters, 
 but you have a chance to try out your decks against anonymous people and get them ready for real 
 matches and tournaments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Puck82
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 2, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  For my opinion I found the best game related to the Magic : The Gathering.
  If you played or like this card game you will love this videogame.
  It cost you only 9.99 $ but 
 it's unlimited in playing and addictive.
  If you wan't tou can use the preconstructed deck without spending a buck ; but if you are a real-style 
 player you can buy decks or expansion packets (collecting the cards online) .
  You can make a friend playing online or give a look to the chat section.
  All the cards are present, 
 and it is updated to the last expansion set.
  
  I like it very much ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sodtiwaz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 31, 2005 11:51 pm PT
Review:  If you're a fan of Magic: The Gathering CCG then this is really a must have for you. This game 
 has been around for over 10 years now and there is finally an online adaptation that does the game 
 justice.
  
  While I really would have liked to have seen some type of game where you walked around and dueled 
 other people and played for ante like the old microprose version this is by far the best version 
 of computerized magic ever produced.
  
  This is really nothing more than an online gaming store where players from all over the world can 
 come to play each other. there are various rooms that separate newbies from pros and there are 
 organized tournaments as well as formats like 2 headed giant and emperor, however anyone can freely 
 choose what room they wish to be in which leads to some veteran players staying in the new player 
 room just to boost their egos.
  
  while the server does go down from time to time this has been reduced quite a bit since 2.0 came 
 out and I rarely notice any lag or other server side issues.
  
  all in all if you are a magic player then this is really a must have for you. the simple fact that 
 you can log in at any time of the day and always have an opponent waiting for you makes this game 
 superior to physical magic in my eyes... the only exception would be the lack of human interaction, 
 but if you've ever been to a major tournament you know how smelly it gets in there with 100+ magic 
 players.... so i'll take a lack of human interaction as a bonus :) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
