-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Magic & Mayhem: The Art of Magic
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/magicmayhemtheartofmagic/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 29, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.9, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 40 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Bethesda Softworks
Developer: Charybdis
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Oct 26, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Art of Magic is an interesting game whose every strength seems to be hurt by a related weakness. 
 

 When you play a fantasy game, it can be great fun to bash heads as an ax-wielding barbarian, but 
 when you think of the fantasy genre, you probably first think of magic. If anything symbolizes 
 the escape from the ordinary into a wondrous world of high adventure, it's a wizard or sorceress 
 bending natural laws to summon strange creatures or harness the elements. If that's true, then 
 Magic &amp; Mayhem: The Art of Magic taps directly into the core appeal of the fantasy genre by 
 letting you play as a wizard whose chief goal is combating fellow spellcasters. The Art of Magic 
 is a sequel to Magic &amp; Mayhem (1999) , designed by Mythos Games of X-COM fame. This time around, 
 developers Charybdis and later Climax were at the helm, creating a real-time strategy/role-playing 
 hybrid. The Art of Magic takes many of the core concepts of its predecessor, adds a new 3D engine, 
 and comes up with an interesting game whose every strength seems to be hurt by a related weakness. 
           The Art of Magic combines elements of role-playing and strategy...    

  In The Art of Magic, you play as Aurax, a young man who has just woken up after a long night of 
 celebrating his coming of age with fellow villagers. He's also awakened to troubled times. In years 
 past, three magic orbs created by a great wizard kept the world's three realms of law, chaos, and 
 neutrality in balance. With the mysterious death of the neutral druid leader and the destruction 
 of the orb he guarded, the forces of chaos begin a campaign of aggression. When the game opens, 
 they're on the rampage in Aurax's homeland, the druids' neutral realm. Against this backdrop of 
 warfare, Aurax has a more personal problem: His sister, Nadia, has recently disappeared. To Aurax's 
 surprise, it turns out that she's skilled in the ways of magic, and now it's Aurax's turn to learn 
 these arcane secrets and rescue his sister.   

  In real time, you lead Aurax across this fantasy landscape, dueling other wizards and their followers. 
 You'll have the aid of NPC companions, as well as magical minions you learn to summon, such as 
 eagles, dragons, and boulder-hurling giants. Aurax's quest unfolds as part of a branching campaign 
 with more than 30 reasonably diverse missions. Some play like big strategic battles, while stealth 
 missions give the game some puzzlelike elements, as in Pyro Studios' Commandos games. In addition 
 to the campaign, you can play a highly configurable "battle" (skirmish) mode on 25 different maps 
 with up to seven competing wizards. These can be controlled by the computer, which plays with welcome 
 aggression, or by other humans online or over a LAN.   

  Akin to a character from an RPG, Aurax has three stats that you boost with experience gained from 
 completing each of the campaign's levels. Health determines the damage that Aurax can sustain. 
 Control limit determines the number of creatures you can command at once. Mana, the fantasy genre's 
 sloppy catchall term for some sort of mysterious magical power, determines the power and number 
 of spells you can cast in a short span. Also like in an RPG, you pick up items scattered across 
 the landscape, including spell ingredients, "mana sprites" to boost your mana reserves, and food 
 to replenish health. It can be pretty funny to see two powerful sorcerers furiously munching apples 
 and fish during a magic duel.           ... with mixed results, despite an interesting spell-making 
 system.     

  The Art of Magic's spell system is the game's most interesting element and features more than 50 
 different spells. The game emphasizes strategic and creative forethought in its magic system. Between 
 levels of the campaign or before you begin a skirmish, you access a portmanteau (spell book) to 
 ready the spells you think you'll need in the coming level. Your portmanteau has talismans aligned 
 in columns according to law, chaos, and neutrality. Into these talismans you place spell ingredients -- like 
 deadly nightshade, brimstone, or psilocybin -- that you find during missions, thereby creating new 
 spells. Depending on the alignment of the chosen talisman, the same ingredient can create totally 
 different spells. So, psilocybin (from "magic mushrooms," no less) can be used to create spells 
 that summon zombies, eagles, or fairies. Other spells can heal units, call down meteors, morph 
 a wizard into another creature, and more. You really see the full possibilities of the spell system 
 much more readily in battle mode than in the campaign, where you're stuck with very limited powers 
 for quite a while.   

  Despite the emphasis on sorcery, The Art of Magic feels much like a traditional RTS too, with simple 
 point-and-click attacks, green/red health bars over characters' heads, control-click unit grouping, 
 and so forth. You'll fight to control vital resources, but instead of the usual RTS crystals or 
 ore, you try to find mana-generating "places of power" and then hold them by placing at least one 
 of your units on it. The more places of power you control at once, the greater your mana recharge 
 rate, which is a key to winning battles. Fighting for and holding these mana sources forms the 
 core strategic concern of the game, and it nicely balances and works in concert with the game's 
 tactical-level combat. Fighting for places of power can proceed at a slow pace, though, regardless 
 of the game speed setting you choose. It can sometimes feel like a dull war of attrition.   

 Fighting for places of power, waging spell battles, or just making a character move around can be 
 a chore because of the game's awkward interface. Your wizards can't run without the aid of a spell; 
 they only trudge about casually as enemies assault them. Dodging attacks is more difficult than 
 it needs to be, thanks to that languid pace and the time it takes for a unit to change direction. 
 Other interface problems can cause difficulties in combat too. After casting a spell, it's too 
 easy to make your wizard cast it again when you want to make the character move. Also, some commands 
 lack hotkeys, and you can't reconfigure the ones you do get. On the bright side, you can alter 
 the game speed and issue commands while paused.           The interface and graphics can be awkward. 
    

  The Art of Magic's camera also proves to be a hindrance. As you zoom in and out, the view automatically 
 tilts. With the camera zoomed all the way out, you get a top-down view, and with it zoomed all 
 the way in, you get an intimate view akin to a third-person shooter. It's a shame you can't alter 
 the angle independently of the zoom to provide the best view for each situation. Also, the camera 
 rotates very slowly, particularly if you use the mouse to control it instead of the keyboard. A 
 more serious problem with the camera arises from buildings, trees, and other scenery blocking your 
 view. You have to manually toggle roofs and other obstructions on and off. It would be better if 
 they temporarily faded away on their own when units moved under or behind them, as in games like 
 Diablo II.   

  Even beyond the camera, the Art of Magic's new 3D engine isn't quite as magical as it could be. 
 More than anything, the game looks remarkably like a tabletop fantasy miniatures game come to life. 
 The levels can look eerily like photos of finely detailed model dioramas. It's a strange and memorable 
 effect, but at the same time, the game lacks the sort of original artistic vision you find in games 
 like Sacrifice. Still, some of the detailed terrain textures and spell effects are impressive in 
 their own right, particularly the vicious "dragon's breath" fireballs you can cast. Their sooty 
 smoke trails look remarkably lifelike. Some textures, like rippling water, start to look pixelated 
 when viewed up close, though. The fog of war creates an awkward effect too. Areas where your units 
 stand look as if they're illuminated by spotlights, while the unexplored areas seem to be shrouded 
 by pitch-black night. The effect looks very artificial and awkward.   

  The 3D models used for trees, huts, and so forth look blocky, and the low-polygon characters tend 
 to look horribly puppetlike with their stilted animations. These can render humorous those scenes 
 that should be heartbreaking, like when an important character keeps jerking his foot mechanically 
 as he dies. The subpar animations also make combat scenes appear lifeless. It's too bad more effort 
 wasn't placed into character models and animation instead of gee-whiz particle effects.        
    The Art of Magic can be frustrating.    

  The game's sound leaves you with the overwhelming impression of... not much, actually. It's functional 
 but ultimately bland and forgettable, outside of a couple of interesting music tracks. The voice 
 acting is usually competent at best. When Nadia tells Aurax that the living dead are attacking 
 their family's village, she doesn't evince a drop of emotion. She may as well have been asking 
 Aurax to pass the saltshaker at dinner. It doesn't help that the dialogue itself so often sounds 
 like it was taken from a poorly written children's cartoon.   

  The Art of Magic's uneven presentation is indicative of the game as a whole. The RPG elements don't 
 get as much attention as they deserve, and the gameworld and characters are a mishmash of hackneyed, 
 third-rate Tolkienesque fantasy. The RTS elements aren't particularly novel or sophisticated either. 
 The spell system is interesting in theory but can be a bit dull in practice in the campaign, yet 
 much more fun in the battle mode. The campaign levels aren't balanced particularly well, with some 
 too easy and others tediously long or frustratingly hard. The interface works passably, but it 
 often gets in the way of itself. The visuals offer some really flashy effects but are let down 
 by the character models, animations, and camera. The interesting features of Magic &amp; Mayhem: 
 The Art of Magic's don't gel into a truly satisfying game design, but they're entertaining as long 
 as you don't set your sights too high.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mahoganyelf
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 7, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  This game has showed how do not make a videogame. Talking about graphics this game really has a 
 very poor qualification, the graphics are very, very bad.
  The game interface its so uncomfortable, the game speed its disproportionated, you can change it, 
 but that doesn't change anything. The mode to select your spells its so tiring and not practical.
 
  The sound its poor and the speech... this game has one of the worst speech in the history of the 
 videogames.
  This game has an story, it is really faded by that poor interface, sound and graphics.
  Really 
 I am so worried, this is the worst game ever published by Bethesda. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
