-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Majestic
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/majestic/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 15, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 6.6, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 20 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Anim-X
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Jul 31, 2001
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Majestic is a very passive experience, and as the novelty fades, so will your interest. 

  The problem with innovation is that it all too easily becomes a crutch. Majestic is one of the 
 most inventive games in years. It has a great premise, involving shadow governments and conspiracies 
 and the risks of trying to expose them. But it's the way Majestic brings this premise to life that 
 is noteworthy. There is no game engine. Instead you play the game with everyday technology you 
 most likely already have: e-mail, fax machines, telephones, AOL Instant Messenger, and a Web browser. 
 The approach is so novel that the first few days of the game are exciting. But Majestic is a very 
 passive experience, and as the novelty fades, so will your interest.           Video clips are 
 used to keep you informed about significant events.    

  Majestic is broken up into episodes. This review is based on the pilot episode, which is free, 
 and the first episode, which requires that you sign up for the EA. com Platinum Service (currently 
 $9.95 a month) . The pilot episode begins strongly. You are introduced to the browser-based interface 
 and cast of the game. Then something dramatic happens. You'll stumble around trying to figure out 
 what is going on. Within an hour, you'll receive phone calls, e-mails, and instant messages all 
 giving contradictory information. You'll then be told that someone will contact you the next day, 
 and the game goes dead.   

  It's a strong start. As you start researching the story behind the game, you learn that it is based 
 on the theory of the Majestic 12, a shadow government that is heavily involved in both mind-control 
 research and UFO cover-ups. As the game goes on, the conspiracy theory takes a backseat to a soap 
 opera involving the makers of Majestic (or at least the actors playing the fictional creators) 
 and the problems they face as a result of their research. The conspiracy is the heart of the game, 
 but it's not the focus.   

  This is a problem. Majestic quickly becomes a passive experience, and your role becomes little 
 more than solving simple puzzles as people send you e-mails and instant messages telling you exactly 
 what to do. There's little challenge, and your tasks come slowly and individually. For instance, 
 at one point some characters have seemingly vanished. You must help one of their cohorts find their 
 new location. You are given a cryptic story and a map, and you must use one to find their location 
 on the other. In theory it's a good puzzle: The setup is great, and the clues you are given are 
 subtle. At first. But if you actually figure out what to do, you still can't proceed until someone 
 contacts you and outlines exactly what you need to do. And then you see the map: It looks like 
 a maze for children. There's one huge location in one corner and another in the opposite corner. 
 It's so obvious that all the cryptic clues leading up to the puzzle are unnecessary.   

  Not all the puzzles are this cut and dried. One of the better puzzles requires you to call a long-distance 
 number and retrieve someone's voicemail; another requires you to study a document and take several 
 steps to prove that it is authentic. These are great, because they require you to make connections 
 on your own. But there are few puzzles like these in the pilot and the first episode. And if you 
 can't make the connections, the game will start giving you clues to move you in the right direction. 
   

  It's good that Majestic has safeguards so that no one will get stuck. The problem is, there's little 
 motivation for figuring things out on your own -- even if you do the research and follow the leads, 
 the game will outline your next step when it's time to proceed. If you have vital information for 
 a character, you often can't give that information to that character until he or she asks for it. 
 The game finds many ways of artificially slowing your progress: Paging systems will be mysteriously 
 down and characters will rarely be available on their messaging service. This works to set the 
 pace, but it becomes predictable quickly.   

  The artificial pacing wouldn't be so much of a problem if the game gave you more to do in the downtime. 
 Generally, your actions will simply be passing information from one character to another. Occasionally, 
 you will be required to find this information on your own. Majestic would be a much stronger game 
 if you were given the option to set your involvement level. Want to research important facts about 
 the conspiracy? You can, but it will have no impact on the game. You're simply an errand boy for 
 people who can neither be online at the same time nor figure out the simplest of puzzles.   

  Majestic is somewhat successful at creating the illusion that you are interacting with real people. 
 The informational Web sites you'll visit are believably crude. The video chats you'll watch are 
 well acted and dramatic. Many of the instant-message conversations are well scripted, with branching 
 dialogue that makes it seem like someone is really communicating with you on the other end. The 
 phone calls are less realistic. Each is obviously a recorded message, which is strange considering 
 that voice-activated menu systems are so commonplace. Even having to answer simple questions would 
 have made the phone calls much more exciting. And for those with Caller ID, the illusion is shattered 
 even more by the fact that every phone call comes from the same number -- it's not quite as believable 
 when that professor in Chicago is calling from an area code in Oakland, California.           You'll 
 use Instant Messenger to converse with the game's cast.    

  The excitement that you'll feel as the game begins is slowly replaced as the formulaic nature of 
 the game becomes apparent and as you realize that there's little more to the game than the novelty 
 itself. There are a few really creepy moments in the beginning of the pilot episode, and one or 
 two during the first episode. If you were given a more consistently active role or even optional 
 tasks to perform during the game's considerable downtime, it would be much more appealing to a 
 wider range of players. In its current state, the game is little more than an occasionally interactive 
 soap opera that borrows a considerable amount from  The X-Files . The free pilot is definitely 
 worth your time, but be warned that the first paid episode is rather slow, especially toward the 
 end.   

  Because of its episodic nature, Majestic has an opportunity to create something great with future 
 chapters. If nothing else, it has laid the groundwork for other games to borrow and improve upon 
 its excellent premise.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: kainenable
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 8, 2006 9:07 pm PT
Review:  It is unfortunate that this game did not survive because it was unlike anything I had ever played 
 before. 
  
  Perhaps played is the wrong word for it. Experienced would be a more appropriate verb. It invaded 
 your life and took you to a whole different level of immersion for a game. 
  
  When the game was on form it was absolutely enthralling. You felt like you were integral to the 
 progression of the story and actually experiencing these events as they occured. It is so hard 
 to explain the feeling. You recived video messages, emails, instant messages and phone calls. Imagine 
 recieving a phone call from a desperetly frightened woman at 3 am. It was incredibally creepy and 
 kept you really interested as to what would happen next.
  
  Unfortunately when the game was not on form it was dull. I had actually subscribed to the 10.99 
 monthly service just because I wanted to see what happened next. As the story wore on it seemed 
 to slow down and you spent most of your time just waiting. If they had kept up the quality and 
 pacing of the first episode then I would have been more than happy to continue. Majestic seemed 
 to loose its momentum once you started to pay for the service which i found rather odd. After the 
 second or third episode, it is hard to remember since it was so long ago, I had given up out of 
 sheer bordem. 
  
  Looking back on it i lament the game's demise because it had the potential of being something that 
 gave you such a tangible experience. A level of immersion that no game had ever achieved and may 
 never achieve again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bellz666
Rating: 6.6
Date: Aug 15, 2004 7:41 pm PT
Review:  This was a fun game when it first got started up. I was in beta and had a blast through the initial 
 phases, but like every other reviewer said, it became a nusiance, when you were paying for a game 
 that you played for 20 minutes a day.
  
  I would have liked EA to change the game to have 4 or 5 interactive sessions per day, even at 15 
 minutes a piece to truly make you feel like this conspiracy was real, and that at any given time 
 you could get sucked back in. Basically, after the 20 minutes and standby, you knew you were done 
 for the day.
  
  This could have gotten huge, too bad they underplayed their hand. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
