-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Majesty: The Fantasy Kingdom Sim
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/majestythefantasykingdomsim/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 28, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 7.6, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 624 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: MicroProse
Developer: Cyberlore Studios
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Feb 29, 2000
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Majesty is original, fun, and challenging, and it's a winning combination of real-time strategy 
 and role-playing elements. 

 If Majesty helps set a trend, then 2000 might go down in history as the year in which gaming changed 
 forever. First there was Maxis' successful suburban-life simulator The Sims, in which you set simulated 
 people in motion and watched them live their lives under your influence. And now there's Majesty, 
 which won't seem so revolutionary when you first look at it, but gets much more interesting as 
 you start to play it. As in The Sims, the point in Majesty is influencing your subjects rather 
 than directly commanding them, even though Majesty seems like a fairly traditional fantasy-themed 
 real-time strategy game on the surface.  

 The big deal about both The Sims and Majesty is that they simulate autonomous behavior by recognizing 
 that just because you want a person to do something, doesn't mean he'll actually do it. Although 
 Majesty certainly doesn't simulate the full complexity of intelligent autonomous free will, it's 
 still a great deal of fun and will likely help set a precedent for future games that take game 
 characters' artificial intelligence even further.  

 Majesty is a real-time strategy game set in a medieval fantasy world. Your goal is to establish 
 your kingdom and try to expand it. The problem is that there are lots of people and creatures out 
 there who would rather not have you infringing on their rights, either as devoted citizens of other 
 kingdoms or simply as individuals, and who defend against your advances or try to pummel your homeland. 
 You have to build military defenses, cultural institutions, and everything else that will keep 
 your people satisfied and prosperous, all while repairing what gets damaged and pumping tax dollars 
 into an increasing number of things. At first, Majesty doesn't seem different from any other top-down 
 real-time strategy games or empire-building games released in the past few years.  

 As the ruler of the land, you start each scenario with a palace. The palace gives you access to 
 various actions such as constructing buildings, setting henchmen limits, and establishing rewards. 
 All other aspects of the game revolve around balancing these various actions. You need buildings 
 to protect the kingdom, produce materials, generate revenue, and act as home bases for your heroes. 
 You use henchmen to perform the kingdom's necessary functions such as guarding, trading, and collecting 
 taxes. But the core of the game, and its true innovation, lies with the heroes you'll have to recruit. 

 Recruiting heroes in Majesty is crucial. The henchmen that your palace and its guard towers automatically 
 produce, which include city guards, palace guards, peasants, tax collectors, and caravans, perform 
 the kingdom's day-to-day work. However, heroes let you expand your kingdom by exploring the territory 
 surrounding your palace and by engaging in combat with monsters and other enemies throughout the 
 land. To recruit heroes, you have to construct buildings in which they'll base themselves. Build 
 a gnome hovel, and you can recruit gnomes, which are cheap but not very useful. Build a warrior's 
 guild, and you can recruit warriors, who are more expensive but much more powerful - and later 
 in the game you can recruit paladins, who are even stronger than the warriors. A dwarven settlement 
 will yield engineerlike dwarves, while a ranger's guild will let you recruit your most capable 
 explorers. Wizards can be recruited once you construct a wizard's guild, and they can cast powerful 
 spells but are easily killed. You can also construct temples to various deities, and each will 
 also let you recruit a specific kind of hero. One temple gives you healers, another provides priestesses, 
 and still others offer monks, cultists, adepts, and fire-wielding women called solari. Each type 
 of hero has its own capabilities, and each type costs a different amount of gold to recruit. You'll 
 often find yourself unable to recruit the hero you need because your treasury is too low, and at 
 these times you can miss several golden opportunities to expand. Expanding your territory is when 
 Majesty is most fun and most unusual. It's one thing to construct a guild or a temple and recruit 
 heroes. It's another thing entirely to actually get your heroes to do anything. Heroes will spend 
 their time wandering about, shopping for new weapons or other items, defending the kingdom if it's 
 under attack (or if they feel like it) , or just lollygagging about, waiting for action. As ruler, 
 you have to provide them with the incentive to do things.  

 You do so through Majesty's very elegant system of offering rewards. If you want an area explored, 
 you click on the explore-reward icon and drag it to a shrouded area of the map. To attack a monster, 
 a location, or an enemy building, you click on the attack-reward icon and drag it to that destination. 
 Then - and this is the important part - you assign a monetary value to that reward to provide the 
 incentive for heroes to go there. If you just wanted them to collect the money from nearby treasure 
 chests, you'd put an explore-reward in the area and assign it the lowest amount. However, if you 
 want your heroes to attack an enemy stronghold, you must place an attack-reward of a much more 
 significant value on the stronghold. If the reward is substantial enough, you'll see your heroes 
 exit their guilds and temples and start heading toward the location. Some of them will take on 
 monsters along the way, while others will turn aside when the going gets tough.  

 Majesty's interface is mostly good. You click on a building, character, or item to get information 
 about it and act upon it. Acting upon a building means repairing and upgrading it. In several cases, 
 such as with a guardhouse, marketplace, or blacksmith's shop, you conduct research into areas specific 
 to that building, such as weapon- and armor-level upgrades for the blacksmith and additional types 
 of goods for the marketplace. After a specific number of items have been researched, you can then 
 upgrade the building to the next level. An upgraded guardhouse provides better protection for the 
 kingdom, while an upgraded blacksmith's shop provides better weaponry for your heroes. Upgrading 
 the library gives you knowledge of weapons you can build and technologies you can use, which in 
 turn allows for additional research in other buildings. Upgrading the marketplace provides a more 
 varied store of available goods and a quicker revenue stream.  

 Maintaining a revenue stream is extremely important. As in any game similar to Majesty, you need 
 a steady income of resources to survive, and in Majesty your revenue mostly comes from tax collectors. 
 In fact, your entire kingdom depends on a little guy called who walks from building to building 
 collecting taxes. You can put each building on the tax route, or you can order your collector to 
 tax a specific building right away to get quick cash. Ultimately, you'll need more than one tax 
 collector, or your cash flow won't be suitable to your needs. Marketplaces are a major source of 
 taxation revenue, so you must pay close attention to protecting and upgrading them to make them 
 as lucrative as possible. You can also build caravans, trading posts, and inns to help your economic 
 cause, and you can also send your recruited heroes to collect money from treasure chests and enemy 
 buildings.  

 There are 18 scenarios included in the game. Four of them are secret and require you to complete 
 one or more of the other 14 before you can start them. The others are independent, and there's 
 no cohesive story or campaign linking them together. Some of the scenarios are designed for beginners 
 as a means of introducing the various elements of the game system, while some are rated as advanced, 
 and a few are designed for expert players. Each quest is replayable to a certain degree, since 
 some of the components are randomized each time you start a new game. You can also continue to 
 play each quest past the point at which you complete the victory conditions, so that the game becomes 
 one of exploration, building, defending, and conquering, rather than one of trying to work toward 
 a more specific goal. In many ways, playing without a specific quest is actually more fun, since 
 your concerns then center exclusively on the building, maintenance, and survival of your kingdom. 
 You can also play (mostly) cooperative multiplayer versions of Majesty over modem, LAN, or on the 
 Internet through the MSN Gaming Zone.  

 Majesty is one of the rare games that you won't want to stop playing until you find out what happens 
 next. Your heroes can die quickly, but you'll find yourself cheering for some of them and delightedly 
 watching them grow into increasingly powerful characters. There's frequently so much going on in 
 Majesty that it's too hard to keep track of everything, and the action happens so quickly that 
 you'll hardly have any time to watch the enjoyable graphics and animations. While some elements 
 of the game's interface are a bit clumsy, Majesty is truly excellent overall because of its simple 
 but immensely effective system for getting your heroes to do their jobs. Majesty is original, fun, 
 and challenging, and it's a winning combination of real-time strategy and role-playing elements. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (19 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: wswedin
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2008 11:44 pm PT
Review:  The game is unlike any other rts/rpg... you don't control your heroes! They control themselves, 
 they wander about doing their business...
  
  In fact, the only way to "control" them is to set bounties and hope they go for them! The bigger 
 the bounty the better chance!
  Back to what you as a player can do however, you have to recruit the heroes in the first place, 
 you can rename them, build bazaars and blacksmiths for items. Although the heroes decide themselves 
 if they want to shop, hunt for monsters, raid a lair, research new spells, or go after a bounty. 
 Heroes need gold to buy items, so if you have a favorite, be sure to give him some gold via bounty, 
 or just dump an explore bounty right next to him!
  There are monster lairs that monsters will come out of, and lairs will appear over time, mostly 
 sewers in your base in which rats, and giant rats come out of. Also enemies can come from the sides 
 of the level based on your settings. There is a wide variety of heroes and they all do different 
 things and have different personalities.
  For example: Gnomes mostly level up by building things for you, they are horrible fighters, dwarves 
 on the other hand, can help build, and are great at fighting. Wizards are the most damaging but 
 most fragile of the heroes, they tend to flee or die a lot... Warriors are very stupid, they get 
 themselves killed a lot, and rogues are always looting lairs and the sort!!!
  
  This game is great multiplayer, you are at peace with who ever is with you... unless you put bounties 
 on them! A complete war will start, and you will be throwing spells at each other like mad! Depending 
 on what temples you make, it is what spells you get, you can reanimate, burn them with the sun, 
 zap em with lightning and more! However using the spells uses your money... you get money via your 
 tax collectors and guilds. The rogues guild is a nice amount of cash... low on cash and don't want 
 to wait? EXTORT THEM!!! Yes you can do that.
  
  I need my sleep and am too tired to explain more of this wonderful game... my point of this is... 
 GET IT! You will have a lot of fun. I recommend it to any fan of rts/rpgs or just find it intriguing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wutevar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  After all these years, I simply cannot stay away from Majesty for more than a few months. 
  
  To quickly describe Majesty's gameplay imagine yourself ruling over a MMO server, or realm. 
 You don't quite meddle in the affairs of your players (Heroes, in Majesty's case) but you're involved 
 enough to influence and nudge them to do things. 
  That's right, it's a strategy game where you don't have total control over your subjects; your 
 guards, peasants, tax collectors and caravans will try their best to do their part to serve your 
 kingdom by catering to things like constructing new buildings, collecting taxes and providing basic 
 defense for your kingdom. Your heroes however, literally have minds of their own.
  
  Recruited from various 'Guild Houses' or 'Temples', Heroes provide the bulk of your military and 
 exploration forces so without them victory cannot be achieved. The hero's class largely determines 
 his mindset; Paladins seek out monster to battle, Rogues steal money and gear from establishments 
 other than their guild house, Rangers are keen on exploration and so on, each filling a vital role 
 in your kingdom. 
  Fortunately, the player possesses a handy tool called bounties that can be used to better direct 
 any and all heroes. You can attach a bounty to a monster or a monster lair, or place an exploration 
 flag in an area you want scouted. The higher the bounty, the more heroes will undertake the task. 
 
  
  Each 'Hero Guild' comes with its own perks, some restrict you from building other guild houses 
 meaning you can't have both Elves and Dwarves in your kingdom as the two races cannot coexist, 
 for example. Various temples give you access to spells you can cast to strengthen your heroes or 
 hinder your foes (all at a cost) as well as provide you with it's followers. Concerned about the 
 security of your realm? Construct a temple to Lunord and hire some Acolytes. Want structures built 
 faster? Build a Gnome Hovel and hire a few to dramatically speed up the construction process.
 
  
  Just like in MMO's, heroes in Majesty are not static beings. They earn experience and level up 
 subsequently becoming stronger and they earn loot with which they can improve their gear or buy 
 magical trinkets at a blacksmith's shop or the marketplace. Wizard towers even provide 'enhancement' 
 to their weapons and armor, all at a cost. 
  
  The kingdom management mechanic can be compared to that of Settlers. It is involving enough to 
 be satisfying when it runs properly, but isn't overly complex like that of SimCity or Caesar. All 
 there is to it is to maintain a strong economy by creating efficient tax routes, and having them 
 well-defended against monsters.
  
  Speaking of which, Monsters are much like heroes and are the usual types you'll find in a fantasy 
 medieval setting; Rat-men, Skeletons, Minotaurs, Medusae, Werewolves, Dragons and so on. They don't 
 gain levels or gear, but they each have their native habitat. Rats will spawn from sewer entrances 
 around your kingdom, Zombies will arise from graveyards where you heroes are buried while goblin 
 raiding parties will occasionally spawn from goblin camps on the frontier.
  
  While Gameplay is clearly Majesty's strongest point, sound and presentation are also top notch. 
 The music fits the fantasy medieval setting perfectly and the spoken lines of your heroes are funny 
 and personable, all done extremely well. A special mention goes to the royal advisor who informs 
 you of events during the game and briefs you at the start of each mission.
  
  While you may think that player involvement is lacking in a game where your units act independently 
 it is not the case with Majesty. There'll always be ways to better your kingdom, it's economy or 
 security. Player involvement in combat is also not diminished thanks to a wide selection of spells 
 the player can cast at will to aid his heroes.
  
  There are many different gameplay aspects to majesty, each of which when combined together make 
 for a refreshening and enjoyable experience.
  
  Graphics, the game's weakest point are in 2D and don't quite hold up to the standards of 2000, 
 let alone to this day. Nevertheless, they are far from repulsive so gamers who can appreciate older 
 games certainly wouldn't mind. The sprites are detailed and colorful, and the heroes' portraits 
 are neatly stylized.
  
  Much like other one-of-a-kind titles like Sacrifice or Giants: Citizen Kabuto, Majesty is a game 
 that is hard to stay away from for too long once you get hooked. I recommend it to anyone who enjoys 
 fantasy-themed strategy games or RPG's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Majesty is a fantasy kingdom sim that takes place in the Middle ages. Each mission has their own 
 story. The first mission starts as the town is robbed. And the king has to build a millitary force 
 to destroy the thieves who robbed the small town. The game gets more of a challenge the further 
 you proceed. There is even a free play mode that'll have you managing your own way.
  
  What I liked about this game is that it has a great simulation system. Great 2D graphics. More 
 races (such as elves and dwarfs) join you on your mission. You can even make a huge medival town. 
 More enemies come to make the fighting even more exciting.
  
  What I didn't like about this game is that if you have a certain race in your town, you can't have 
 another certain race. Some bad voice work. A bad Sean Connery impersonation.
  
  Overall, this is a great fantasy simulation game for fantasy fans. It'll even impress Sim City 
 fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamsir1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  after you play it for a while and are able to build everything the game keeps giving challenges 
 for you to meet and after your first big win you realize just how much fun your really having with 
 the expansion it makes it twice as huge and as far as replay there are a few things you can do 
 like challenging yourself to getting higher level characters and building different structures 
 which lets you makes different characters based on what tier you take. what i loved is when you 
 got raided by a group and you can call to arms and it turns all your people into soldiers to battle 
 afterwords they go back to working and doing what they do .thers nothing like getting your stuff 
 upgraded to the highest level and sending people out to explore and defend your kingdom and have 
 your tax man collecting and seeing your people go into the local fairgrounds to have some fun or 
 getting your wizards guild to max level . i just loved having my guard houses at lvl 2 and my blacksmith 
 building maxed out seeing all my people walk around and having a wizard beefed up with his max 
 spells yea this game is a must for anyone wanting to play or at least try a rts with rpg elements. 
 all i got to say is its one of those games that keeps you coming back for more and more even after 
 a year one day you'll want to just turn it on and give it a try . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebubbleprince
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 7, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  I ain't much of a strategy fantasy guy but this the only strategy fantasy game i love and play. 
 Its by far an awesome game. Even tho there are no multiplayer games anymore what can i tell ya, 
 The AI is terrific for a game made around the early days of strategy gaming infancy. The graphics 
 are okay. I had another computer back then with a crappy video card and still ran this Game on 
 high settings. And with 22 FPS. Many Fantasy creatures you might or might not be familiar with 
 are the Goblins and Medusa, Troll, Rock Golem and many more creatures. From Tax to Military, From 
 House to Guild or Spell to Melee Majesty Delivers it.
  
  Somewhat difficult depending on the scenario. Reccomend playing freestyle once a while for practice.
 
  
  An old-school game that still is worth it to this day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Termite551
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 2, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  I think Majesty is quite fantastic and deserves more praise than its given. The game takes place 
 in ardania, your typical realm infested with regular pests such as, Giant rats and goblins. It 
 is up to you the Sovereign of ardania to rid the land of these vile creatures and bring back peace 
 to the land.
  
  You command various Heroes who all have their own prefferences and such. They will not take direct 
 orders and must instead be coerced into doing your bidding by giving them Flags to go to and get 
 rewards and the like. This makes controlling your units much more chalenging and leads to many 
 fun moments were you just wish your heroes would do what you say and kill the menacing monster 
 who keeps bothering you. The sound and graphics are, although not state of the art, pleasant to 
 look at and the art in the game is very detailed and interesting. The game is narrated by a man 
 with a strange accent which only adds to the games overall presentation. The game is very addictive 
 and sometimes I found myself simply trying to make a huge city simply jam packed with heroes of 
 all type walking around just for the sake of seeing how big I could make it.
  
  Overall Majesty is a FANTASTIC game that I recommend to anyone who plays RTS games.
  
  Termite, 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentat76
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2006 1:58 am PT
Review:  I always liked the idea playing a FRP empire as a RTS.
  
  This game offers that. The very best thing is you manage an empire and not controling the characters 
 as individuals. You dont give orders to units as they have their own characters and they will decide 
 what to do or not. You try to attract them to do what you want them to do by putting rewards on 
 targets and watch them to struggle for the reward.
  
  Watching every character as they grow in abilities and level ups by the kills they score, and come 
 back to the inn for healing and spending money for joy. Blacksmiths sell weapon and armor, and 
 when characters spend money to such items not only their fighting abilities increase (that is something 
 what we strive for) but also you collect taxes from such buildings to prosper your empire.
  
  Mage's guild spawns mages as well as offers other characters healing potions and haste potions. 
 Thieve's guild houses thieves and bards, which they loot graves and steal money from other characters 
 and that is another income for your economy.
  
  In short, You are not a player who runs for the missions given to you like in most FRP games but 
 you play the King of the country who creates the missions in a FRP world. That is the jewel of 
 this game. Highly recommended.
  
  I hope a sequel to this game will be developped soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heylookitsmatt
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 12, 2006 2:33 am PT
Review:  Have you ever played a game that almost made it? The kind you want to love because the concept 
 is just so great, but something stands in the way of you singing is praises? Well, that is exactly 
 how I feel about Majesty. The idea behind Majesty is brilliant. You are building a kingdom in a 
 dangerous wilderness. Monsters prowl the area and your people are vulnerable. What do you do? You 
 train some heroes, of course. Basically, every time you build a fighter/mage/whatever, you are 
 creating a new player character and sending him out on his own. The interesting thing is, the AI 
 is the player controlling them. You are tasked with giving the heroes the means to succeed. You 
 must build blacksmiths to let them buy better weapons and armor, inns to heal them, and shops where 
 they can buy rings, amulets, and potions. The heroes will gain gold from enemies and use it within 
 the economy you create to net you more gold in taxes. Basically its SimCity RPG. Now, you don't 
 have to sit idly by and let your heroes do it all alone. You can offer rewards to help sway the 
 heroes to do something in particular. Is that dungeon in the west sending out monsters that are 
 attacking your town? Put a bounty on it and just wait for an opportunistic hero to take the bait. 
 In addition to rewards, the player has access to "sovereign spells." Some buildings offer the player 
 the option of casting spells that (for some reason) cost gold per use. These range from healing 
 spells to damaging spells, to just about anything you might find in an RPG. Believe me, 1000 gold 
 is well spent on resurrecting a level 15 Wizard (though it would have been better to heal him earlier 
 for 200.) For the most part, your gold is best spent on buildings and upgrades, but its good to 
 have these as an ace up your sleeve when the odds are against you. Unfortunately, the game has 
 no skirmish mode (in the standard "play against an AI player" sense) nor does it have an active 
 online community. Online and other typical multiplay options exist, but its hard to find an opponent. 
 Perhaps had a community arisen, the game would have been a greater critical/financial success and 
 the beautiful looking sequel would not have been canned (doh!) The single player does offer some 
 cool levels, but the "skirmish" game feels more like a sandbox mode. Skirmish places the player 
 in a hostile realm (they can customize options such as the realm's size and the monsters therein) 
 and they build their town and try to destroy all the enemies. This is annoying mainly because the 
 enemies never grow in strength. As you "tech" up to cooler heroes and the heroes you have gain 
 in level and power, you quickly found that those giant spiders just aren't a challenge. Once one 
 of your heroes finally gets bored of buying stuff from your village and competing at your fairgrounds 
 long enough to kill all the enemies, it feels very anti climactic. I sometimes try to keep the 
 enemies alive and see how high I can level my heroes, but all in all, after the first few minutes, 
 skirmish mode gets pretty boring. I'd like to see more games like Majesty. I'd like to see these 
 kinds of ideas get funded like the rehashed garbage that the big name companies keep regurgitating 
 at us like so much over-chewed cud. I'd like that very much, but I don't see it happening. Majesty 
 is a perfectly good game, and I'd recommend it to anyone looking for a fun, innovative game to 
 play through once and return to now and then. Just keep in mind, its not going to be something 
 that will hook you. Enjoy it for what it is, and you'll get a lot of fun out of the campaign and 
 some interesting "sandbox" gameplay out of the skirmish mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drowningfish999
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 23, 2006 8:41 pm PT
Review:  In Majesty, the typical click and move style of RTS has been replaced with a more The Sims style 
 gameplay. Instead of directly controlling your heroes, they act on their own based on their class, 
 as well as reward flags which you can place to try and lure your heroes into attacking or exploring 
 an area.
  
  The game plays like a typical RTS, you start off small and build up your kingdom, while exploring 
 the area and completing your objectives. Majesty features a wide variety of guilds and temples 
 from which you recruit heroes, as well as structures to support you heroes and your kingdom. Heroes 
 also level up, which increases their stats and makes them more useful altogether. They can also 
 purchase items and learn spells that increase their capabilities even more.
  
  Although the game does get repetitive, its always fun to come back and play. The campaign is also 
 very open, allowing you to complete whichever mission when you feel like it, instead of playing 
 one after another. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thom590
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 3, 2006 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Majesty is a fun and addictiong game which combinds the gameplay elements of a great RPG, a sim 
 city builder, and a RTS.
  
  A major area of gameplay in Majesty is the in depth character building. Nothing is more fun than 
 whatch your level 14 wizard, 11 paladin, and 17 monk own a rock golem or a dragon. To grow in wisdom 
 and strength your heros will depend on you to build a city where they can purchase a wide variety 
 of weapons and spells (ie; the sim city builder gameplay in majesty) . And nothing builds great 
 joy than watching your ranger purchase a stronger bow from the black smith or you wizard learn 
 a new spell from the Library.
  
  However the true theme of Majesty rests in the fact that your heros all have different characteristics, 
 strengths and weaknesses. Each hero is unique and different and you will come to expect diffent 
 things from each hero. You will learn that a wizard will be weak at first, but if he gets to level 
 8 he will be you most powerfull fighter in the game. You will learn to expect you rangers to explore 
 the map, your rouges to raid lairs searching for treasure, your palidins to fight to rid the land 
 of evil and your warriors to stay loyas to you and protect the land. When playing majesty you will 
 catch yourself sying things about why you like you heros, "thats why I like rouges, they'll attack 
 anything if gold is involved" "thats why I like Palidins, they'll fight any intelligent battle."
 
  
  You will become attached to the heros that have become recuited and will become addicted to building 
 a city that will support them. Majesty is a fun RTS and an addictiong Sim city builder, but what 
 will really addict you and pull you in is the RPG factors. The different characteristics of your 
 heros and thier different goals is what truly makes majesty great.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Horus92
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 10, 2006 4:32 pm PT
Review:  At first, Mahesty looks like a cheap-made copy of Age of Empires or other strategy game, but is 
 it? NO! Magesty presents a main difference between it and those strategy games: that your loyal 
 subject and warriors are AI. Oh yes, you must find ways to make them fight for you, using money 
 or by simply placing them in the right spot at the right time.
  
  Majesty's gameplay is similar to the ones in Age of Empires. Ages in Age of Empires are replacedby 
 Palace levels and upgrades and so on. Unique warriors are created from unique guilds, and there 
 are unique monsters to fight with, as well as boss monsters.
  
  In every other subject, Majesty is very similar to Age of Empires, yet Majesty has a unique sensation 
 that will make vey different to Age of Empires. So just one recommendation, PLAY IT!
  
  And for those who have already played it, Remember those spectacular phrases the warriors say, 
 such as:
  
  "KROLM MAKES ME STRONGER!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elementfx
Rating: 8
Date: May 8, 2006 11:19 pm PT
Review:  Okay well the good things about this game are the many different "quests" that you can do, so if 
 you do it without the cheats it can be quite challenging. The bad thing is that you can't "make" 
 your heroes attack something, they only do it if the're feeling happy and dandy enough or greedy 
 enough since you can put a bounty on the enemies. The other downside is that the AI isn't that 
 good, but for the time it was made it isn't that bad either. They also haven't made a new version 
 of it since I think the northern expansion which I think was back in 2001... So it's not really 
 a game that would be that great to play now, but back in that time I loved it and played all the 
 time, along with my C&C series and collection of Lego games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conk21halo
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 1, 2006 9:40 am PT
Review:  When i got this game it was in the bargin bin in walmart. but i soon poped it into my computer 
 and was instanly addited to its unqiuue game play. being a big rts fan it grew on me fast espacally 
 for the fact that your units have free will and you need to intice them to get what you need done. 
 whats bad is the fact that it gets very hard after the first few missions. making it hard to master. 
 that graphics are amazing for its time period. this game is definatly worth your money if you ever 
 see it in a gamestop. so to put it simply pick this game up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunnchief
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 21, 2006 8:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty cool! You can unlock lots of new levels and even play a customized Majesty 
 game! Build a kingdom and form an army of Warriors, Rangers, Rogues, Elves, Dwarfs, Wizards and 
 more! You might catch on to this game fast if you who have played Age Of Empires or Stronghold. 
 The gameplay is not bad, but what i really don't like is that you can't control your warriors or 
 peasants. You also never see the king, probobly because he's always in the Castle. Your Army will 
 also grow levels the more they fight. Music is okay, Graphics aren't bad, Gameplay is good except 
 you can't control your people sound is good. This game is really easy to get used to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dyoma
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 16, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  This game I just cool in every sense of the word not only it has one of the best game plays but 
 also nice graphics and a good campaign and if you install the northern expansion mode its even 
 better! Youll be able to play and create your own games. This game also has a good multiplayer 
 up to 4 players. The heroes and the way youll play it will have a big variety. This game will 
 keep you busy for a couple of weeks. This game is old but I still play it and enjoy it like it 
 was a game that only came out like a week ago. I highly recommend to get this game and the northern 
 expansion pack too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonickinght
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2006 6:12 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. It is difficult on some missions and easy for beginners. This game is basically 
 a medieval Sim City, except this game has hordes of attacking creatures. This is a great combination 
 of fantasy and strategy. You build guilds which recruit heroes and they do whatever it is you "the 
 king" want them to do, well not exactiy. There are classical medieval monsters such as dragons 
 and minotaurs, and then there are creatures that you freak out for a second when they appear and 
 make you say "What the @#$% is that?!?!?" Anybody that has a fast computer and likes fantasy genre 
 games should pick up this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: molivers7
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 7, 2006 12:42 am PT
Review:  I have to give love to this fantasy sim game. It has some good graphic, awesome sound, and some 
 tough, challenging levels. The graphics are pretty good for the time it was reeleased (2000) . The 
 buildings in particular stand out to me. While the graphics are good, the sound really makes this 
 game fun. First, the king's aid sounds exactly like Sean Connery. I seriously argued with one of 
 my friends for a week until I finally checked the credits and found out that I was wrong. The other 
 sound bits from the characters are also classic. I particularly loved when a gnome died or when 
 you engaged the Crom barbarian horde. I found the levels in this game to be very good. They start 
 you off slow and then add difficulty at a reasonable pace. There are still a few of the hardest 
 levels I couldn't finish. If you are into fanasty sims or just city sims in general, check this 
 game out. Oh, there is also an expansion pack if you like the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 28, 2005 9:47 pm PT
Review:  While you still build up a base and an army, a new element is that your units (heroes) can't be 
 directly controlled. Instead, you hire/recruit heroes who do what they want to. Rangers like to 
 explore, Theives like to loot, etc... Though, to a minimal degree, you can control these heroes 
 by erecting reward flags. You can place either an Explore/Attack flag for a little gold to get 
 your units to either Explore or Attack that area. 
  
  Heroes can also level, get items, and gain new abilities. Thare are quite a few different classes 
 to hire/recruit; ranging from clerics, adepts, to necromancers and druids. 
  
  A few problems arrive because of these elements. The first, which has probably crossed your mind 
 already, is when you're in trouble, you can't force your Heroes to act on it. This leads to many 
 frustrating moments if you hadn't built your base up right. 
  
  The second is, and while it might not really be a problem to you, I found it to be a little cheap 
 at some points. Heroes can get powerful FAST, which leads to some incredibly easy missions. In 
 one of mine, (I don't remember the exact character, but she always defended) one of my heroes leveled 
 up quickly and killed anything that entered my base, which made me practically invulnerable. Pretty 
 minor complaints, but that is really just how few problems Majesty has. 
  
  Since Majesty is so inexpensive now, I would really recommend this game to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkali
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 10, 2004 4:37 am PT
Review:  If you enjoy pen and paper RPG's, Majesty is a an experience you'll get a kick out of. It enjoys 
 an innovative design - a strategy game where you can't directly control your minions. 
  
  For a strategy game, there's very little directing of your troops. The strategy is embedded in 
 your kingdom design and also the units you choose since some are mutually exclusive. Kingdom layout 
 also plays a big part in your game.
  
  Gameplay is fairly intuitive and straightforward. My main issue is that it's sometimes difficult 
 to see what a particular hero is doing. Graphics are still nice, even 4 years after the game's 
 original release date. And the sound, while nothing spectacular, is catchy and provides a nice 
 background without being overbearing.
  
  As for the role-players joy - it comes from watching your heroes go to the blacksmith and buy better 
 weapons, then head to the marketplace for a healing potion, etc. I also chuckle every time I hear 
 the thieve's guild extort money. The little touches truly make this game shine. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
