-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Making History: The Calm and the Storm
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/makinghistorythecalmandthestorm/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Interesting turn-based gameplay that lets you explore different historical outcomes in World War II.
 Clean, sharp presentation and graphics.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 A bit dry, without much dramatic tension or excitement.
 A fair bit of micromanagement is required.
 There's a decent learning curve to get over.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  6, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.8
Critic Score: 7.1, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 156 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: Muzzy Lane Soft.
Genre: Historic Turn-Based...
Date:     Mar 13, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Making History is an interesting, though dry, turn-based World War II strategy game. 

  Making History: The Calm and the Storm is a strategy game that has an interesting history of its 
 own. Originally developed as an edutainment game for history teachers, it has evolved into a full-scale 
 retail product about World War II. This is a turn-based strategy game that looks and feels like 
 a board game, but also features a fair amount of depth and control. With that said, it's not as 
 complex or as deep as Paradox's comprehensive Hearts of Iron series -- but for something that's designed 
 to teach the basics of World War II, it doesn't have to be. As it is, Making History is an interesting, 
 though not gripping, game.  

          You can play as Nazi Germany in Making History, so where do you want to go today? France? 
 Poland? How about Mother Russia?     

  Making History lets you experiment with different historical outcomes of World War II. You're not 
 constrained to follow historical events as they happened, so you can rewrite history if you want; 
 imagine, for instance, if the United States had stayed neutral throughout the war, or if Germany 
 and France had teamed up to invade the Soviet Union. However, enacting such scenarios probably 
 won't give you any definitive answers if you were looking for them, mainly because the artificial 
 intelligence is all over the place and a bit unpredictable. For instance, in one campaign, both 
 the United Kingdom and Nazi Germany ended up dominating the globe as unlikely alliances were made 
 and broken constantly. Still, it can make for some wild historical scenarios.  

  You can control any of the major combatants of World War II in Making History, and the varying 
 start points offer different sorts of challenges. The earliest one has the world coming out of 
 the grips of economic depression, as each nation attempts to reconstitute its economic and technological 
 base and prepare for the coming storm. If you want to skip all the preamble and buildup, you can 
 start at the beginning of the war itself, or even at the midpoint in the war. Your job is to come 
 out on top, through conquest, diplomatic means, or a blend of the two.  

  The game gives you control over a nation's industry, scientific research, military production, 
 war machine, and more, and you have control over everything, from how much each mine produces to 
 buying and selling goods on the world market. The game requires you to juggle many demands, from 
 generating enough revenue through production and trade to conducting long-term research that can 
 eventually unlock nuclear weapons to jet engine technology. And, of course, you've got to worry 
 about building up a military, all at the same time. It sounds complex, but everything can basically 
 be tied to cities and territories. Your cities produce a variety of things, such as research points, 
 consumer goods, arms, or military units, while your territories can provide resources such as food, 
 coal, oil, and metals.  

  Still, there's a fair bit of micromanagement required to do everything. Production orders for each 
 city must be regularly weighed and tweaked if you want to maximize your economy. You can order 
 various types of infrastructure improvements in each territory, boosting food production, infrastructure, 
 or defensive fortifications. Military units must be constantly produced, grouped, and ordered into 
 battle, whether to invade territory or defeat an opposing army or navy. Trade and diplomacy must 
 be monitored and dealt with. As a result, the game has a fairly steep learning curve, and it takes 
 a while to understand the causal relationships between the many aspects of the game; also, attempting 
 to dig down deeper into the simulation often results in lots and lots of numbers that are difficult 
 to comprehend.  

          It doesn't have state-of-the-art 3D graphics, but Making History still looks good thanks 
 to its clean interface and board game-inspired look.     

  If you stick with the basics, it's easy to get drawn into the game. After all, strategy fans know 
 the joy of researching a hot new technology and then turning that research around and building 
 it into a weapon. With that said, Making History is a fairly dry game, and there's not a lot of 
 drama or tension to it. One of the major problems is that most of the game consists of hitting 
 the turn button over and over again until something important happens. Meanwhile, the artificial 
 intelligence is easy to manipulate, and it's hardly aggressive unless you make a hostile move against 
 it. The game does ship with a multiplayer mode that lets you play against others, and it's easy 
 to imagine that in a classroom setting this would be particularly cutthroat as human players strived 
 to undermine one another. But in a real-world setting it's hard to tell, since there never seem 
 to be any servers up for the game.  

  At least Making History won't strain too many PCs out there, and the game's presentation is sharp 
 and colorful. The interface is clean and modern, and the graphics themselves capture the board 
 game feel of the game quite nicely. Units are modeled in 3D and look like little tokens. One especially 
 nice touch is the way the game draws movement arrows around the map, as they look just like the 
 animated diagrams seen in old World War II newsreel movies. Aside from the rousing national anthems 
 that play in the game's background, the sound is pretty basic. Then again, this isn't a game that's 
 really about a lot of flash and thunder. When you get down to it, it all feels rather academic. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: voxstellarum
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 11:15 am PT
Review:  Making History is a good game for serious World War 2 addicts. You can't find any amazing graphics 
 or sounds in this game so if you expect something like Call Of Duty please leave this page.
  
  With MH you can spend your precious hours with fun especially if you're new to this kind of 
 game. But if you've played Hearts Of Iron series you'll probably get bored after couple of hours. 
 The game is not bat at all but also not great at all neither. While there's a game called Hearts 
 Of Iron 2 (much more detailed and realistic than MH) "Making History: The Calm and the Storm" could 
 only be a preperation for the big daddy, Hearts Of Iron 2.
  
  You should buy this game if you're only new to this genre. MH is a good place to start. With its 
 easy gameplay you can easily understand how nations work, produce, fight and win wars. 
  
  Making History lacks of great amounts of details, especially if you're familiar with HoI you'll 
 find this fact disturbing. Nevertheless, this game is a very good try in this kind of strategy 
 level. Maybe they make Making History 2 and that one will be better than Hearts of Iron 2 or even 
 Hearts of Iron 3, who knows? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Myrmidon_x
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 1, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  If you are a fan of WWII history and turn-based strategy games, you should give this game a look. 
 It re-creates the world of the 1930s and 1940s in historically correct detail and lets you become 
 the leader of ANY country in existence at the time. You can then take that country in whatever 
 direction you want.
  
  Want to see how WWII would have gone if the USA had joined the Axis? Want to take over South America 
 as Argentina? Want to just play the war as it really happened? You can really do anything you want 
 as any country you want. This is the main draw of the game in my opinion.
  
  Let's talk graphics. They are crisp and bright but simple.
  
  Diplomacy works well in this 
 game. Countries honor their alliances and generally do not do stupid things. You have many options 
 on the diplomacy screens as well, including making demands or giving concessions when you make 
 peace with a warring nation. It's always funny to declare war on Communist China and then offer 
 them peace on the condition that they become democratic or even fascist.
  
  Performance issues are the only real problem I have with this game. This game uses A LOT of memory 
 on your computer. After about 100 turns, you should notice a considerable slow down on your machine. 
 Soon afterward, your computer may freeze completely. A restart of the game fixes this, but it's 
 an annoying problem. The Devs are working on patches to resolve this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anofalye
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 10, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  After playing a few turns, I couldn't help but figure... this wasn't fun and feeling as a chore.
 
  
  Maybe I am spoiled and requires more feedbacks.
  
  Maybe the game is too complex (although I play and understand it, there is a point where it is 
 no more fun) .
  
  At any rate, this game doesn't make me wants to play more, it makes me want to stop playing and 
 go work!
  
  Definitely not a light-heated gift, make sure your sweety half likes that before you buy it, cause... it 
 wasn't fun for me, and I expect many GBT fans wouldn't enjoy it either. Unless he is bragging about 
 complex games and he deserves a lesson... now that might be the game to teach him a lesson about 
 bragging wrongly on stuff he doesn't really finds important.
  
  That's been said... the game is kinda complete, if this is your cup of tea. The world is nicely 
 designed and the rules are expansives. From a first glance it seems to be historically right... or 
 if not, very close.
  
  But when a game is no longer a game, it loses all it purposes, doesn't it? Well, for me it was 
 the case, I wish tons of fun to other peoples. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jablome
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is great in many ways, although its not meant for people who like fast paced games this 
 will be a delight to very strategic and even political game fans . In the game you can play almost 
 any country (of that day) . You can even try to take on Germany as Luxembourg. The A. I is masterful 
 in this game. You will need to use strategic and financial thinking to beat your foe. All though 
 jerky at times, it does not really affect game play. The graphics are very good, although not superb 
 you can clearly make out what units are. Now the game play is great. IT allows you go down any 
 path of history you like, even to let you drag World War ll down in the 50's. All in all I highly 
 recommend buying this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shervinv
Rating: 8
Date: May 9, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  This game will appeal to those who enjoy turn based strategy war games, especially if you like 
 board games. I disagree with the gamespot reviewer wholeheartedly, as do most of the others who 
 have reviewed it here as you see, obviously the reviewer was not a fan of the type of game I mentioned 
 and was looking for something else. So, without further ado:
  
  This is a board game, with 3-d battle unit icons for land, sea, and air units, beautifully rendered, 
 and a static board type world map. Your units can be grouped in standard armies and sent into battle 
 or massed in reserve. The game takes into account travel times for armies very well, if you want 
 to send an army to support your losing units deep into russia, you may not get there in time, so 
 best be prepared! The game has a not so intuitive economic system and the manual is no help... 
 you have to play for a few hours until you get it. How do you stop from losing money or why do 
 your coal reserves keep dropping even though you're buying it from everyone who will sell it to 
 you? You'll figure it out! You have to manage coal, metal, oil, food, arms, and goods in this game. 
 Some of them are produced in cities and some of them are automatically produced based on the regions 
 you control. Simply taking over more territory isn't the best way to increase production either... 
 you find that just as in real world, capturing lots of resource hungry places without the proper 
 infrastructure will result in big losses, luckily you have the option of capturing a country and 
 then liberating it, which gains you an instant ally... and you need allies in this game. As the 
 war progresses, various alliances are formed which makes later battles very costly... croatia may 
 look very promising and you really want to take it over, but if you do you'll go into battle with 
 the German alliance, and that would be a bad thing! Battles are nice once you figure it out, and 
 somewhat realistic. I quickly realized that if I play France, going to war with Germany-Italy is 
 a very bad idea... your allies do come to your aid, but not where you want them or need them as 
 you don't control their armies. The diplomatic screens are thankfully simple and easy, you only 
 have a few choices there. The bad is that the manual is no help, and there's a good in-game encyclopedia, 
 but you can't figure out what the numbers mean till you go online and get help from people. The 
 game can use a patch to increase some interface issues and more in-game help (like unit stats) . 
 You CAN get into lots of micro management in this game.. just reading the gamespot reviewer say 
 you spend lots of time doing nothing but press next round confirms that he/she was no strategy 
 player, you really have tons you can do each and every turn, how much you feel like doing is up 
 to you. I find I spent more turns planning for battles than actually fighting them, but to me that's 
 realistic. I like this game, but to be fair it's not like most of today's games, you have to get 
 it with the right expectations. Ask yourself if you were a fan of risk or Axis and Allies (the 
 board games) ? If so, you'll probably really like this game. But if you get it spend the time to 
 read the forums to figure out what's what or you'll spend lots of time being lost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gdpsnake
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 29, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  I have mixed feelings about this game. I consider it a scaled down but much more playable version 
 of Hearts of Iron 2. The game plays well and I haven't hit any snags or bugs but there are a few 
 items one must get used too before indulging.
  
  First, don't expect this game to be a realistic representation of WW2 except for the first turn 
 set-up. After that, all bets are off. I've seen lots of unusual actions by the computer that don't 
 represent realistic war actions or acts that would be evaluated in the traditional WW2 political 
 arena. For instance, USA will declare war on Germany in 1939 but not be a member of any alliance. 
 Hungary declared war on Italy as did Japan in 1940. Britain tried several hopeless sea invasions 
 of East Prussia. Yugoslavia in one game attacked Germany in 1939, China tried to ally with Germany 
 while Japan and Germany were allies. In other words, expect anything.
  
  Second, many combat options of WW2 are missing or skewed.
  There are NO airborne troops at all 
 so taking places like Crete or Malta are impossible against the Brits and their enormous seapower 
 which tends to clump into huge killer stacks. The 'clumping' occurs, no doubt, because there is 
 NO convoy system at all to protect. Subs are a useless item for any strategy and are mearly another 
 'type of surface ship' in combat which they probably won't even engage in unless they are part 
 of a surface fleet. So if you have ideas of U-boat play - forget it.
  Combat is not too particular especially with multiple enemies. For example, the US and the British 
 alliance were at war with Germany BUT they were not allies and as such, in my opinion, the fleets 
 and units should not be in cooperation with each other: yet, in any combat situation they were 
 totaled as one combined attacker. It's not happened, but I could see a situation where the US and 
 British alliance were at war with Germany AND each other - how would combat go then? This could 
 apply to various other combinations as well.
  Aircraft are lengthy and expensive to produce and get killed easily so you can quickly be without 
 any at all. They are also oddly ineffective except for killing ground troops. I rarely hurt ships 
 with my light bomber units even against surface fleets without any CAP. My fighters, even in stacks 
 of ten, rarely detered small groups of enemy bombers from bombing my cities. The fighters rarely 
 got any kills against unescorted bombers and often lost. In one case my 10 improved fighters met 
 4 pre-war fighters and 2 bombers and lost six for no effect.
  As noted with aircraft, you must get used to combat being a Risk game mentality of your units mearly 
 representing dice rolls and forget strategy and tactics. It's simply roll the dice and see what 
 happens. You have some benefit of better dice with better units but any tactics of combined arms 
 or modifyers seem absent.
  So all in all, whether at sea or on the ground, combat is you build units, put them into big stacks 
 and attack where the enemy isn't. Once I realized this, I started a game as Germany and slaughtered 
 Poland by putting everything in one stack and going area to area while single units took the empty 
 areas. I lost two units in the whole campaign and realized the way to kill the enemy is too give 
 him no where to retreat. The first time I played, I tried the blitzkrieg tactic and got hosed.
 
  So forget Blitzkrieg, convoys, sub warfare, air transport, paratroopers, engineers, strategy and 
 the like.
  
  On the flip side, what this game becomes is a great beer and pretzels nailbiter as you try to score 
 more points and/or take over enough of the world to win the game in classic Risk style. You do 
 get a little flavor of diplomacy (get others to chip in help) , research (better die rolls in effect) , 
 trade (get more guns and butter with your cash) and production (build your units) but it's all 
 geared to getting your side to beat the 'other' sides.
  
  So for grognards, you should probably take a pass and stick with HOI2, SC2 or similar attempts 
 at WW2 strategy games and for everyone else who just wants to play a really cool game of Risk - 
 this one is for you especially in multi-player fashion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlexChec
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 21, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  MAKING HISTORY: The Calm and the Storm, has everything thats necessary to sweep the strategy game 
 market, were this the year 2000. I understand fully that the original MAKING HISTORY was intended 
 for educational use, and as such I think Muzzy Lane should be congratulated for making a decent 
 jump into the retail sector. But the result of its efforts, however, is a game that does not meet 
 the expectations of todays strategy gaming market.
  
  One thing that MAKING HISTORY does very well is recreate the table-top board game feel that strategy 
 games tend towards. The world map  a spot-on equirectangular world projection with accurate region 
 names, populations, and city locations  is superb, and there is no difficulty moving units about 
 or finding industrial centers. The only thing that would cause this to be better than the map of 
 the Hearts of Iron series, its closest competition, is if it had a better graphical representation 
 of terrain types, instead of making users have to click on each region to see if they will be traveling 
 through a desert, jungle, etc., for those not well learned in geography.
  
  The user interface, while not necessarily intuitive, doesnt take more than a couple of turns to 
 get the hang of. What would help, however, is if the tutorial were interactive; but as it is, the 
 tutorial is nothing more than you sitting through about twenty minutes of screen displays which 
 cannot be interrupted, lest you want to start from the beginning, and your only tasks being to 
 find and click on certain icons; and the games manual downloads separately from the Steam version.
 
  
  The unit icons themselves show a great deal of variety in land and air units, but the naval units 
 from one nation to another are the same excepting the national decals on the bow and stern of each 
 ship, and they do not discernibly change as you climb the tech ladder. So while you will never 
 confuse a corvette class ship and a basic battleship, you might have to double check between a 
 destroyer and an advanced destroyer.
  
  To be sure, even HoIs unit icons fell into the cookie cutter trap after you passed a certain tech 
 level, but whats frustrating about MAKING HISTORY is that the technology tree is nowhere near 
 as intricate as HoIs.
  
  A personal aside: One thing that you, the reader, should know about me is that I dig complexity. 
 I loved HoIs initial, super complex technology tree, and I was very upset that the next installment 
 of the series simplified the technology model so that I no longer had to worry about my gun calibers 
 or what grade sprocket came off the assembly line, etc. Because what I liked about HoIs complex 
 tech tree was that each nation could really customize its forces. You could either mass produce 
 a lot of low cost, low caliber units to swarm the enemy in lieu of superior firepower, or you could 
 create lumbering mammoths of tanks to utterly crush anybody unfortunate enough to be in your way.
 
  
  MAKING HISTORY, however, has a very basic tech tree that any nation can rocket through with enough 
 investment, and each nation benefits equally. An advanced tank from the United States is just as 
 powerful as an advanced tank from Germany is as powerful as an advanced tank from Afghanistan (no, 
 I never played a game where Afghanistan got advanced tanks  that werent steamrolling over their 
 country anyway  but had they managed to build them, they would have been the same as the aforementioned 
 nations advanced tanks) .
  
  The reason why all these units are the same is because MAKING HISTORY assigns a generic combat 
 power score to each unit which, when put together with other units, gives your army group a certain 
 combat score to give you an idea of just how strong of an army you have on the field.
  
  I say to give you an idea because your combat power does not really matter. In an homage to board 
 games, units fight in with an engine that essentially does dice rolls to calculate a hit or miss. 
 Every unit has a percentage chance of a hit or miss, assigns a specific amount of damage to your 
 units, which in turn have a specific number of hit points before being destroyed. Granted, your 
 chances of a successful hit improve or are hindered based on such factors as the terrain, what 
 your attacking tech level is, and what your opponents defense tech level is, but the bottom line 
 is that its not impossible for a basic infantryman to destroy a wave of advanced tanks. This leads 
 to some very frustrating battles that are too reminiscent of Civilization III where a spearman 
 could go toe-to-toe with a modern army and come out victorious; many times my armys combat score 
 would outnumber an opponents by margins of four-to-one or better with superior equipment, but 
 after the first round of battle we would be on an even footing  and it takes a very, very long 
 time to recover those kinds of losses relative to the very fast-paced and fluid environment that 
 is a world war.
  
  Further frustrating is that MAKING HISTORY does not model unit experience. As Germany, you can 
 send an army through Poland, Russia, and France, but that army will be just as effective as any 
 fresh-off-the-line army that England or the United States will send to stop you. Apparently there 
 is a user mod underway to correct this, but only by adding war experience to the tech tree in the 
 manner HoI did.
  
  Back on the home front, the financial and production models are basic, and this has its pros and 
 cons. On the one hand, somebody at some point is going to appease all the accountant gamers out 
 there and make a game in which you only manage a nations economy during wartime as there is quite 
 literally that much you can do  and which HoI initially had you doing. In MAKING HISTORY, it isnt 
 difficult to upgrade cities, infrastructure, or fortifications, its just time-consuming. Keeping 
 the economic models simple allows us armchair generals to do what we came to do: command big armies 
 and crush enemies.
  
  On the other hand, its way too simple. Cash apparently grows on trees, and if you run out, no 
 big deal. You can run massive deficits at no cost to your economy, only to your final score, which 
 will likely be boosted by such other factors as the massive army you have built on your wartime 
 debt and the many regions you have conquered to supplement your manpower. The only thing that can 
 really cripple your economy is if you run out of goods, thus making your workers unhappy, but you 
 can run a large deficit of goods for a long time and take only a few percentage points off your 
 economy.
  
  What really cripples you is when you go and crush your opponents. When you conquer foreign cities 
 which do not share your national culture, they will not perform at full capacity, even long after 
 the nation has surrendered and annexed itself to you. When you find yourself in charge of, say, 
 all of Europe and the bevy of cultures it supports, it will frustrate you that you cant get the 
 Slavs, Franks, Italians, Anglo-Celts, and Scandinavians, to name a few, to just put aside their 
 differences and work for you to unleash the full might of your superior industrial power on the 
 world.
  
  The diplomatic model is also overly simplified. World trade is a matter of proposing treaties to 
 other nations and either accepting or rejecting those that come your way; or you can skip all that 
 and just put an offer up for the world market and let nations take your share. There is no negotiating, 
 and there are no freebees, i. e., you cant just give one of your allies a massive shipment of resources. 
 And while its all too easy to go to war, its nigh on impossible to achieve peace, short of conquering 
 everybody.
  
  Granted, you might be wondering why somebody would fuss over peace in a World War II strategy game, 
 but when you really want a nation to annex itself to you so you can gain an ever so small boost 
 in production output without wanting to go and hunt them down on each and every one of their last 
 colonies in the Pacific, you will wish that the AI could admit when its been had and give itself 
 up.
  
  There is also no penalty for all your warmongering. Its just as easy for a fascist state to go 
 to war as it is for a democratic one, even against like-minded nations. Indeed, in the course of 
 a single game witnessed Nationalist Spain declare war on Germany and the United States declare 
 war on the British Empire and her allies, both before 1939.
  
  Can you imagine any WWII strategy game faux pas greater than the United States  the isolationist, 
 still coming out of Depression United States  declaring war on the Commonwealth Alliance? The 
 United States, Britain, and the other nations of the Commonwealth Alliance are collectively called 
 the Allies for a reason! I mean, sure, rolling up Canada in eight weeks might be a fantastic way 
 to call in the debts incurred by the Europeans from Lend-Lease, but clearly there was no Lend-Lease 
 as sure as there was absolutely no penalty against the United States for her egregious offense.
 
  
  At the same time, Italy was vetoing virtually all of my (Germanys) alliance offerings to other 
 nations, including the like-minded Japanese, but then cried foul when I kicked her out of the alliance 
 for declaring war on every nation Italy bordered under the assumption that I would pick up the 
 tab. In fact, in this particular game, WWII started in 1937 when Poland declared war on my then-ally 
 Japan for invading China, thus causing me to declare war on Poland, thus causing France to declare 
 war on me; and the British only got involved when I finally got around to attacking France proper.
 
  
  The problem here is that every nation seems to think it has an equal say in the worlds affairs, 
 regardless of its own strength. It is a rare thing for a weaker nation to fall into line with a 
 superior one, regardless of the circumstances.
  
  And at the very end, the AIs tactical prowess is almost as bad as its diplomatic demeanor. Because 
 the AI knows full well that a basic infantryman could annihilate its tank force, as discussed above, 
 it will never press its advantage. It will never effectively use its air forces to attack units, 
 only cities, and then sparsely. And if you are its ally, it will be more than willing to sit back 
 and let you do all the hard work before coming in to snag that last territory that you hadnt gotten 
 around to yet in order to boost its final score. The only way the AI will keep you on your toes 
 is by making you wonder what far-flung regional conflict will be sounded next among the cacophony 
 of conflicts which together plunged the world into war.
  
  MAKING HISTORY is not a bad game, its just not a great game, at least if youre playing it alone. 
 Now if you can manage to gather a group of friends together for a day-long multiplayer session, 
 MAKING HISTORY will be one of the better strategy games you have played in a while. This almost 
 brings us full circle: MAKING HISTORY started out as a classroom educational tool, accessible to 
 groups of students, not just one or two playing alone; and given that this game calls to mind such 
 classic board games as Risk and Axis &amp; Allies, its natural that the multiplayer aspect would 
 be the biggest appeal.
  
  And certainly once you are playing, you will be playing for a while, as MAKING HISTORY has capitalized 
 on the just one more turn addictive quality that is usually reserved for great games like HoI, 
 Europa Universalis, or Civilization.
  
  It would be a very sad thing if MAKING HISTORY was the last installment of Muzzy Lanes in this 
 field. As I said at the beginning, the fundamentals for a truly great game are here. If the developers 
 can expand on some key gameplay functions  technology development, unit experience, and diplomacy 
  and take a little more time to polish the games graphics  variability of unit design, better 
 shadows, and a world map that better represents ground conditions  MAKING HISTORY III could very 
 well be the strategy game that everybody wants. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gijas
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 17, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting for a game to come along fora long time that uses Axis and Allies type game pay 
 (the board game) and turn it into a great strategy game and now I will have to say it's finally 
 here!
  
  I've been following the progress of MH since the first demo which I liked tremendously and sold 
 me the first time I played it. MH is all about strategy to the T . You have to not only worry about 
 building a war machine to conquer the rest of the world from 1936 - 1945 (WWII era) but you need 
 to fuel your nation with supplies such as oil, timber and goods and build alliances and trade with 
 other countires as well.
  
  You can start out in a few scenarios such as 1936 during the Spanish Revolution, 1939 when Nazi 
 Germany broke the trust of the allies by invading the Rhineland and Czechoslovakia, or in 1940 
 after the fall of France and so on. You can even play toward the end of the war at the start of 
 the D-Day allies invasion of Normandy.
  
  How does it work? You can choose to play as Germany, Soviet Union, Britain, France, U. S. ect. and 
 depending on at what point you start you can try to alter history as the name implies. By choosing 
 as one of the playable countires and you start with that countires strengths and weaknesses for 
 example, Germany had one of the most powerful militaries (except Naval power) in the world in 1939 
 but lacked resources to fuel a war such as oil. So, if your smart you will try to ally with a country 
 that has lots of oil and so on. This is a Turn Based game like the Civlizations series so you plan 
 your moves on the map such as move a military unit to attack or patrol an area, maximize your factory 
 production, trade and ally with other, ect. and then end your turn to watch the results unfold. 
 When your turn is up again you can see the results and information popup to determine your next 
 move.
  
  The diplomatic features are also improved and great. You can ally with any nation as long as they 
 fit into your own ideology such as a fascist regime or even a communist regime. You can trade freely 
 with even the Allies and Axis or embargo another country in trade. There are many options to create 
 success but how you use them is entirely up to you which is what makes this game so great. However, 
 don't expect to change the course of WWII overnight. This is realistic so you can not expect to 
 ally with nations not serving your cause or trade with a enemy for goods. Keep that in mind. MH 
 has one of the nicest world maps I've seen with different colors representing the world's nations 
 and the units details zoomed in are great as well. When you attack another country a explosion 
 icon appears and if you click on it you can see your armies strengths, casualties and chances to 
 win the battle as well as a gun fire sound effect. Sound could be better but in a Turn Based game 
 it's sufficient enough. MH has superb replay ability and I can say for a history educational tool 
 for school kids that you actually learn from your mistakes from the previous game. One thing I 
 didn't like about other games in this genre is that they are too historic and not letting you do 
 what you want. For example, in the World at War series it was almost impossible to win the war 
 as the Axis nations because of historical events taking place too often. No matter what choices 
 or alterations if you will to history you made it seemed that these events would take place anyway 
 no matter what you did to change them. This is not the case for MH! Your decisions will change 
 the AI's decisions in the game! For example, I started a trade alliance with the Soviet Union for 
 oil as Germany and Britain embargoed them for doing so! Pay close attention though on your decisions 
 concerning other nations because they will determine your alliances you make, trade agreements 
 and the entire outcome of the war!
  
  In conclusion, MH is much needed relief for this genre providing hours and game play, back stabbing 
 other nations, conquest and more! I can say this is truely a innovative game because it improves 
 on much needed diplomatic features that other games in the genre are sorely missing. If you liked 
 the Axis and Allies board game from years ago or just what to try your hand at changing the fate 
 of WWII look no further than Making History: The Calm Before the Storm! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
