-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mall Tycoon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/malltycoon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  8, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.6
Critic Score: 4.4, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 5.2, 303 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Take-Two Interactive
Developer: Holistic Design
Genre: Business Strategy
Date:     Feb 3, 2002
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Mall Tycoon is more trouble than it's worth. 

  If you've set foot into a computer game store recently, you'll know that there are a whole lot 
 of recent PC games with the word "tycoon" in their titles. And considering the ongoing success 
 of the 1999 strategy game RollerCoaster Tycoon, why wouldn't there be? Everyone's trying to capitalize 
 on RollerCoaster Tycoon's distinctive and charming model of building a colorful, virtual place 
 of business for little virtual people, then managing and making improvements to the business to 
 keep those little customers happy. Take-2's Mall Tycoon is one of the latest of these new "tycoon" 
 games; it lets you build your own shopping center, furnish it with different stores and scenery, 
 keep it clean and safe, and try to make a virtual fortune from a bustling crowd of customers. It's 
 not a bad idea in theory, but after you play Mall Tycoon, you'll find that it's much more problematic 
 than it is fun.
 
 Right off the bat, Mall Tycoon looks pretty bad. Presumably, the developers intended to keep the 
 game's low-polygon 3D graphics simple so that it would run on a wide range of computers, which 
 might explain why most of the game looks downright ugly. (It doesn't explain why it requires a 
 16MB 3D graphics card, though.) Mall Tycoon's motley-colored interface looks especially garish 
 next to the game's equally gaudy stores and buildings. Most of the game focuses on building and 
 monitoring different stores in your malls, but just about every one of the different stores you 
 can build is covered in blurry textures of clashing colors. And just about everything is extremely 
 blocky and pixelated, except for the inside of individual stores, which actually contain some well-animated 
 3D customers who buy food, try out appliances, play arcade games, or whatever else that store offers. 
 Unfortunately, those store interiors are relatively small; most of what you'll see onscreen while 
 you play Mall Tycoon will be blotchy and blocky.
 
 Surprisingly, Mall Tycoon's sound is considerably better than its graphics. Mall Tycoon's sound 
 effects generally consist of confirmation sounds when you click around the game's interface to 
 build, destroy, or modify stores, or alert sounds when certain events happen. Most of these are 
 extremely quiet, and none is especially good. However, Mall Tycoon's music is excellent; it plays 
 in one long stream of varied tunes that consist of jazz, funk, and Muzak, exactly the kind you'd 
 expect to hear in a lobby or elevator at a major shopping mall. And unlike most mall music you 
 may have heard, it doesn't get repetitive or annoying.
 
 Unfortunately, Mall Tycoon's great sound doesn't really fix any of its other problems. Most of the 
 game revolves around either building or managing your mall and its different shops -- which could 
 have been fun -- but both of these aspects of the game have too many problems to be enjoyable. For 
 instance, building and customizing a mall from the ground up is needlessly frustrating, since although 
 you can click and drag your mouse to create large areas of floor, you can't do the same with walls. 
 If you want to build a large, open area for an atrium or set of stores, you'll usually be stuck 
 with the tedious task of building individual squares of wall around it. Mall Tycoon has an "auto-wall" 
 button that should normally surround new floor areas automatically, but it doesn't work reliably. 
 Try to build a large area of walls manually, and you'll often end up building a bunch of errant 
 wall pieces, which you'll have to delete manually (usually deleting whatever floor or other fixtures 
 you had previously built in) .
 
 When you're building large malls, which many of the game's built-in scenarios will want you to do, 
 there's no easy way to get around. The game has a built-in "camera bookmark" feature that should 
 let you set your camera to jump back to up to eight different views of whatever section of your 
 mall you want. Unfortunately, on both of the test systems we used to play the game, this feature 
 didn't actually work. Mall Tycoon also lets you zoom the camera up and away from your mall to take 
 a bird's-eye view of it. Normally, you might not make much use of this feature, but since the camera 
 bookmark doesn't work, you'll generally find yourself doing a lot of zooming and scrolling around 
 just to find your stores.
 
 Even when you have gotten your mall built, you'll find that managing it can be remarkably frustrating. 
 For instance, you'll want to keep tabs on each of the stores in your mall, but there's no simple 
 way to jump directly to specific stores -- you have to zoom and scroll around until you find the 
 right one, then click on it. Every month of game time, you'll receive reports from the game's SimCity 
 3000-style event ticker (a scrolling text message at the bottom of the screen) on which of your 
 stores was most profitable, but you have no way of quickly jumping to it and examining its fees, 
 goods, and location -- the three things that make a good store profitable -- so that you can capitalize 
 on it. Aside from keeping a store profitable, the only other aspect of the game you'll worry about 
 is taking care of the store by hiring janitorial or security staff to clean up garbage or chase 
 away hooligans. You can hire a bunch of either, and though you can "research" more-effective versions 
 of either, the base-level janitors and rent-a-cops are extremely cheap and are usually more than 
 sufficient to get the job done, so that entire aspect of the game boils down to hiring a bunch 
 of them and forgetting about it. You can also research market promotions that will turn your atrium 
 into a themed centerpiece, like a Christmas or Halloween display, but these aren't really necessary, 
 and they are presumably in the game for players who want to spruce up their malls with good-looking 
 displays. Unfortunately, the displays don't actually look good; they're as blocky and unimpressive-looking 
 as everything else in the game.
 
 Should you get Mall Tycoon? Not unless you really, really, really want to be able to build a computerized 
 shopping center. The game's excellent music just can't compensate for its poor graphics or clunky 
 interface. Yes, it retails for the inexpensive price of $19.99, but these days, you can choose 
 from quite a variety of much better games... including the much-better RollerCoaster Tycoon. And 
 even if you do sit down and try to enjoy the game on its own terms, you'll probably find that Mall 
 Tycoon is more trouble than it's worth. 
 
      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SimGamesFan24
Rating: 1.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  I've owned this game for a long time, years infact. Of course I was much younger then. But even then 
 I knew this game was a bit lackluster. This games graphics are horrendus! They make early 90's 
 games look like masterpieces! The mall guests look like paper cutouts and are very pixalated. The 
 gameplay is just as bad. It seems IMPOSSIPLE to make money, no matter how high you raise prices, no 
 matter how many people that are in your mall, no matter how many stores you make you seem to never 
 make money. The Mall guest are mostly AI and just aimlessly wander around your mall, buying little 
 to no items. Building your mall isn't very ingaging and the games structure is sometimes hard to 
 make out. It took me a long time just to figure out how most of the features in the game worked 
 and some stuff I'm still confused about. The only redeeming thing in this flat one-dimensional game 
 is it's music. It has relaxing louge music, swing music, even some hispanic! But that is just about 
 the only reason to buy the game. If you like cheap paper like graphics, poor user interface, and all 
 around dull and complicated gamplay this game is for you! If not, aviod it like the plague!! As 
 far as I'm concerned this would have made a better music CD than a video game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quickee42
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 24, 2008 3:00 am PT
Review:  Shopping Centre Tycoon, or Mall Tycoon as it's also known, is another in a long line of games with 
 the word tycoon in their title. Most of these represent solid, if uninspiring games that you might 
 enjoy for a short while. This game, unfortunately, omits the actual enjoyment part. The graphics 
 are below average, but not awful. It's hard to know what else to say about them really, other than 
 that the bland range of colours (the beginning of the game is filled with grey, and a few cardboard 
 cut-out trees) are totally uninspiring. The sound, similarly, isn't great, but nor is it bad, with 
 suitable shopping centre tunes. Where this game unfortunately goes wrong is with the term 'fun'. 
 The developers sem intent on creating a game-world without any quirks or humour, which you often 
 find in tycoon games (in fact, the most quirky part of this game is the fact that the star-sign 
 of every shopper is listed. Yep, that's it) . The gameplay is horribly simple, as all you can do 
 is build shops, hire workers and... that's it too. There's a lot to do, as there are several scenarios 
 to play, and several cities to build in, but you'll find this game completely dull from the very 
 beginning, with no real incentive to keep playing, so it's unlikely you'll even bother going towards 
 another city. Ultimately, tycoon games have never reached this low before. Installing this game 
 is more enjoyable than playing it, quite frankly, and you'll be dreadfully bored from start to 
 finish, which is usually about five minutes later. Don't buy this game. Please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lester007
Rating: 6.4
Date: Apr 9, 2007 5:18 am PT
Review:  Personally i think mall tycoon is not that bad. You can have a wide variety of shops and alot of 
 different stuff. But some people may find it hard. I also don't think the graphics is that bad. 
 I guess some people just said it's bad because its kinda hard to make a big successful mall. Personally 
 my favourite is the zoo tycoon and roller coaster tycoon.
  
  Pros: Theres a wide variety of shops, a whole of different things to decorate with.
  
  Cons: May 
 be hard for some people to make it nice as the mall is big.
  
  Well i guess you guys should give it a try for a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inferno32
Rating: 3.4
Date: Sep 5, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Just when you thought a sim couldnt get any worse, along comes Mall Tycoon. On the front cover, 
 it looks promising: a thriving mall packed with all kinds of people. But thats where it ends. 
 The graphics are poor, the gameplay is rather repetitive, and then there are the zombies  if you 
 dont keep your mall clean enough zombies invade. Of course, there is a seemingly simple solution 
 to this problem: hire men in black. However, these men in black are not the same as the movie. 
 All they do is walk around in circles all day. Even if you put one right beside a zombie the man 
 in black will walk off to somewhere else. These zombies wouldnt be a problem, but when you have 
 15 janitors working your small mall and zombies still come, you know somethings not right. My 
 final verdict: dont waste your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lelewow
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 10, 2006 4:29 pm PT
Review:  the answer is yes it's hard I'll take you step by step 1st it's made by Global Star software and 
 hoisne 2nd you can build your mall if you ever played rollercoaster tycoon same things 1. money 
 2. guests becouse you have no guests no money for you oh no right no money your park goes out of 
 bussinnss so in MT hundreds of shop (money) people (guests) I say "can you build the best mall 
 ever?" your answer" we'll guess and then buy the game. I SAID DO IT (I'm not thretning) best 
 game ever? If you want to find 
  out more about the game go to www. malltycoon. com I thank you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: autumnleaf29
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 27, 2005 12:54 pm PT
Review:  This game has really came down in price you can probably pick it up for 10.00 or less so I guess 
 it's worth that. The game is a good idea but it is kinda hard to figure out. I never could figure 
 it all out. You can tell its one of the cheaper tycoon games. I hope they come out with it again 
 and make it more player friendly. I keep getting stuck and not being able to change things once 
 placed. It only came with a short tutorial. After a few hours of trying to play it I just gave up 
 and haven't played it since. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Harryfan142
Rating: 1.1
Date: Nov 8, 2005 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Someone once said "Never judge a book by its cover." In this case it means that a very attractive 
 cover can open up to @#$!. It really is quite sad, I could have been good but just wasn't made 
 well. Don't even borrow this game, it would be worth the hasle. It sounds fine, not state-of-the-art 
 but okay compared to the game. The shops look awful and they don't give you many choices. I don't 
 know how too explain much anymore because it was so bad I stopped playing it all together. If you 
 see this game, run in the opposite direction as quickly as possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FUBUSH
Rating: 1.8
Date: Aug 17, 2005 2:04 am PT
Review:  ... the lesson, never buy a game based purely on a franchise. I was mezmorized by Roller Coaster 
 Tycoon. I just loved every little crevice of it. When I first heard of Mall Tycoon, I thought it 
 would deliver the same experience that Roller Coaster Tycoon did. Holy s*** was I wrong. It is 
 buggy, incomplete, it has an utter lack of strategy, and has no depth at all. I always watch TV 
 when I play games. When I bought this, it was Saturday afternoon with nothing on TV, so I settled 
 on the movie Bring It On. Because this game was so bad I paid more attention and got more enjoyment 
 from Bring it on. Hopefully that will prove to you how horrible this game is. This is the worst 
 game I've ever played. I wish I burned my 20 dollars instead of using it to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RainbowBrite
Rating: 1.4
Date: Jul 12, 2004 12:02 am PT
Review:  Mall Tycoon is a big reason why I subscribed to GameSpot Complete. As a huge RollerCoaster Tycoon 
 fan, and having played demos of games like RailRoad Tycoon and Monopoly Tycoon, I expected the 
 game to be great, and live up to the Tycoon name. Little did I know that more than one company 
 makes Tycoon games. I was so disappointed by Mall Tycoon that I signed up for Complete membership 
 so I wouldnt waste my money on poor games. Because of my experience, I dont buy games anymore 
 without reading reviews, watching videos, and playing any available demos.
  
  Mall Tycoons premise is great. Id love to run my own shopping mall and control which stores go 
 in where, what they sell, and the overall atmosphere.
  
  The number one thing I noticed when I started up the game was that the graphics on the box were 
 better than the in-game graphics!! Talk about a bad first impression! The second thing I learned 
 was that navigation inside the mall is a pain. Building the stores and walls in the first place 
 is awkward, and forget the games automatic wall function  it doesnt work. It seems like they 
 tried to model that function after the one in The Sims, but it failed. Trying to get from store 
 to store involves a lot of zooming out and scrolling, since there isnt an easy way to bring up 
 a screen for a store and go directly there. Ideally it would have worked like RollerCoaster Tycoon, 
 where you can bring up a list of rides and click one, and click a go-to button to get there. Along 
 the same lines, when the scroller at the bottom tells you about a store, you cant just click it 
 to go to that store. Its very inconvenient.
  
  Developing new forms of merchandise is fun, in as much as this game can be fun, but its not necessary, 
 nor are the holiday decorations you can develop. And theres nothing important about the people 
 in your game. Id have loved to see detailed information on my shoppers and their needs and wants, 
 and be able to manage them by building demanded stores. What the game actually gives is practically 
 nothing in the way of this kind of information. Unfortunately, I never saw the staff I hired, such 
 as janitors and security guards, doing anything but walking around, as opposed to RollerCoaster 
 Tycoon where you clearly see janitors and mechanics working. I dont mean to compare this game 
 to others so much, but its just that you can think of so many ways of improving upon this game, 
 especially if youve played other simulation games.
  
  The bottom line: Dont waste your money on Mall Tycoon, even if you find it on clearance for $5. 
 As I said, the graphics on the box are more impressive. I cant speak from experience for the sequel, 
 Mall Tycoon 2, but the original was so bad that Im not going to bother trying it. I hope someone 
 takes this concept some day and makes a really terrific game out of it, but until then, I guess 
 my dreams of managing my own shopping mall are just that; dreams. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
