-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Manhunt
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/manhunt/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 20, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 7.6, 32 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 1,625 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Rockstar Games
Developer: Rockstar North
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Apr 20, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Manhunt is an audacious game that backs up its extremely violent subject matter with solid stealth 
 action gameplay. 

  The developer of Grand Theft Auto delivers its darkest, most violent game yet in Manhunt, a third-person 
 perspective stealth action game that puts you in the role of a death row inmate forced to run a 
 deadly gauntlet at the whim of a sadistic cinematographer. Released a few months ago for the PlayStation 
 2, Manhunt is now available for the Xbox and PC, and while these new versions feature exactly the 
 same content as the PS2 original, they deliver relatively superior graphical quality -- and in the 
 case of the PC version, improved controls. The game itself unflinchingly depicts intense graphic 
 violence, the likes of which you might expect from a slasher movie but not so much from games. 
 However, these grisly scenes are done up in style, as Manhunt has a real cinematic flair to it -- not 
 to mention a suffocating atmosphere that perfectly fits the theme. It also does a better job of 
 incorporating stealth mechanics than most other such games, though the latter portion of Manhunt 
 devolves into a nearly continuous, mind-numbing series of shoot-outs. Nonetheless, those wondering 
 whether Scotland-based Rockstar North is capable of putting together something remarkable that 
 doesn't have "Grand Theft Auto" in the title, need wonder no more. Manhunt is seriously intense, 
 and anyone with a stomach for the game's concept ought to find it fiendishly entertaining.  

          James Earl Cash is the main character of Manhunt, but he's no hero. He's a death row 
 inmate who's an even better killer than the hunters sent to do him in.     

  There's no reason to like the main character of Manhunt. Debates over the ethics of the death penalty 
 aside, at the beginning of the game, James Earl Cash is presumably about to be put to death -- and 
 with good reason. Something happens, however. The "lethal" injection he's administered merely knocks 
 him out. He later comes to and finds himself alone in a cell with an earpiece nearby. He puts it 
 on, and this is how Cash meets Lionel Starkweather. Starkweather presents himself as Cash's savior 
 and promises the man his freedom... after he performs a few key tasks. From this point on, Cash 
 is thrust into a series of levels, called "scenes" in the game, during which he is hunted by ruthless 
 thugs and must make use of any weapon he can find to dispatch of them -- or else die trying. All 
 this happens to Starkweather's great delight. You see, Starkweather makes "snuff films" and captures 
 on video the bloody executions conducted by people like Cash. Cash, it seems, is Starkweather's 
 latest leading man. The rather original storyline is very intriguing at first but doesn't really 
 take off. As a result, it proceeds in predictable directions and essentially just acts as a setup 
 for Cash so that he can be thrust from one hopeless situation into another.  

  The premise of Manhunt is actually highly reminiscent of the original Hitman: Codename 47, and, 
 indeed, the game's combination of stealthy surprise attacks and full-bore shooting action is also 
 similar to that game (and its superior sequel, as well as the new Hitman: Contracts) . Manhunt is 
 also directly comparable to the Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell games, which, too, combine stealth and 
 shooting, though not with such gory results as the kind you'll find here. By now, most gamers have 
 experienced stealth gameplay before. Some enjoy the tension and suspense that this style of gaming 
 is uniquely capable of providing. Others don't have the patience for the sort of trial-and-error 
 approach that most stealth-based games boil down to. Ultimately, Manhunt won't change most people's 
 minds about whether they like stealth games or not. Yes, it can be highly suspenseful, and, yes, 
 it can get quite frustrating at times -- especially in the later scenes. But, for what it's worth, 
 the game does handle certain aspects of the stealth action formula remarkably well. Some aspects 
 of the controls can take some getting used to, but the core mechanics are great.  

          Manhunt combines stealth action gameplay with pure shooting mayhem, so you'll quickly lose 
 track of the body count.     

  Though there aren't many legitimate comparisons to be drawn between Manhunt and the latest Grand 
 Theft Auto games, it does have certain mechanical similarities to Rockstar North's previous work 
 that should give you a good frame of reference. Those experienced with GTA III or Vice City won't 
 have any problems getting started with Manhunt, especially since Starkweather will conveniently 
 walk you through the basics when you first begin play. As far as specific points of comparison, 
 Manhunt's hand-to-hand combat system is basically a crude, button-mashing affair, just like in 
 GTA. There are a couple of additional moves; however, you'll rarely need or want to get into a 
 head-on brawl in this game.  

  Guns (including pistols, shotguns, submachine guns, assault rifles, and even a nailgun) come into 
 play later on in the game. In the Xbox version, you can fire the weapons using an auto-aim feature, 
 much like in the GTA series. You can aim manually as well, and on the PC, you'll have to, though 
 there's a useful ability allowing you to snap your aim onto the closest foe. As if to encourage 
 brutal, close-quarters shoot-outs, Cash will automatically target his foes' heads if you lock onto 
 them from a short distance away. From medium range, a downward tap of the Xbox controller's left 
 analog stick or a slight shift of the mouse, while locked-on, will likewise cause Cash to raise 
 his sights to the opponent's most vital region. Of course, he has perfect aim. Cash, himself, can 
 take a number of hits before dying and will never show any real signs of fatigue or injury (except 
 for the cuts and bruises you'll see on his body when he's particularly hurt) . In a nod to Max Payne, 
 you recover health in Manhunt by finding painkillers, which instantly restore large portions of 
 your health on the spot.     

  Like any stealthy video game character, James Earl Cash can become virtually invisible by standing 
 in shadows. A context-sensitive onscreen icon, shaped like a silhouette of Cash, turns blue when 
 he's in shadows, though you'll also quickly learn to identify the dark, shadowy areas you can hide 
 in just at a glance. This contextual icon is quite useful in general. It points out when you can, 
 for instance, pick up a dead body and move it someplace. Additionally, it points out when you can 
 use a crowbar to pry open a lock; kick a garbage can to cause a diversion; press your back flat 
 against a wall; or instantly kill an unsuspecting foe. Cash may carry several different weapons 
 at once, but only one of each category. His bare fists are always available, though Cash is capable 
 of carrying a large weapon (like a shotgun or a baseball bat) , a smaller weapon (like a hammer 
 or a revolver) , a single-use weapon (like a plastic bag or a glass shard) , and an object for throwing 
 (like an empty bottle or the dismembered head of one of Cash's victims) . You can quickly cycle 
 through your weapons, and many missions revolve around trying to find better weapons than the little 
 ones you start with. You are also able to sprint, which is noisy and alerts nearby foes, though 
 Cash's default walking speed leaves him completely inaudible to his foes, unless he steps on some 
 loose gravel or something to that effect.  

          The enigmatic Starkweather will string you along as you fight your way from one life-threatening 
 situation to the next.     

  Cash cannot crouch or lie prone. He cannot climb onto ledges or anything like that, either. The 
 levels tend to be structured in a clear, linear fashion. Clearing one area gives you access to 
 the next area. Occasionally, the level design may confuse you, like when there's an inconspicuous 
 switch or other item you must use in the environment to proceed. Paying attention to the brief 
 cutscenes prior to each sequence should keep you from straying off course, though. Besides all 
 the stabbing and shooting, Manhunt's levels occasionally throw in a few twists, which give you 
 other options besides just killing your enemies. Without spoiling these things, it's enough to 
 say that the game's twists generally serve their purposes well by breaking up the basic action 
 with a few interesting surprises.  

  The great variety of close-range weapons include knives, machetes, axes, police clubs, sickles, 
 and more; all of these can be used to instantly kill a foe in three distinctly different ways, 
 and each method is generally more brutal than the last. Pulling off these instant-kill moves is 
 relatively easy -- at least more so than in most stealth action games. Since the same exact technique 
 is used for all weapons, they are all functionally identical, which is somewhat disappointing. 
 Cash needs only to walk up behind an enemy who's unaware of his presence to finish him. When he's 
 within a few feet of his next victim, you'll see Cash automatically raise his hand in preparation 
 to strike with whichever close-combat weapon he has equipped. Pressing an attack button at this 
 point will cause Cash to slay his enemy. Alternatively, pressing and holding an attack button allows 
 you to delay your strike by a few seconds, thus charging up for something even nastier than usual. 
 Starkweather prefers that you do it this way, though circumstances won't necessarily permit it. 
 All the executions in Manhunt use a great-looking video filter effect -- as though they're being 
 played back in one of Starkweather's appalling movies -- and are chock-full of blood (which tends 
 to gush right onto the camera) , gurgling noises, and pure shock value. The stylish, gory presentation 
 of these sequences, combined with Manhunt's surprising assortment of weapons and three executions 
 per weapon, means that you probably won't grow tired of seeing these despicable acts performed 
 frequently throughout the game (that is, if you can stomach them in the first place) .  

          The fictional Carcer City is where Manhunt takes place. It's a cesspool of crime, corruption, 
 and destitution. How quaint!     

  Cash will face a variety of foes in Manhunt. Despite the fact that you'll find yourself being hunted 
 by everything from thuggish gangsters to lunatics to SWAT teams to private armies, you'll notice 
 that all these foes exhibit exactly the same sort of behavior. As mentioned, Manhunt is part stealth 
 game and part shooter. During the stealthier levels, which comprise the majority of the game, the 
 enemy AI delivers a rather convincing performance. At the standard difficulty setting (a harder 
 setting is also available) , a convenient onscreen radar-style display shows you if any enemies 
 are lurking about, which way they're facing, and whether they're aware of your presence or not. 
 Making noise in their vicinities or moving into their lines of sight will cause them to give chase 
 or open fire if they're armed. Fortunately, Cash is a very fast runner, so you can usually lose 
 your opponents around a couple of corners if you're spotted. As long as you stick to the shadows, 
 your enemies should be unable to find you and will soon give up their searches in frustration. 
 In so doing, though, they'll expose their backs to your weapons.  

  All the enemies in Manhunt are quite chatty, and there's a surprising amount of dialogue in the 
 game. Suffice it to say that the rather lazy enemy behavior seems justified within the game, as 
 most of the hired goons you'll face seem unable to understand the danger they're in. One noticeable 
 issue with the AI is that your enemies won't care much if they see their dead comrades lying in 
 heaps. Some will comment on their slain allies, but no one will raise any alarms or act any differently 
 as a result -- even if you throw one of their friend's heads into the fray.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (69 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Davideko
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Manhunt is an amazing stealth game! It have nice graphics and the gameplay is awsome too. You awake 
 in a hospital and there are mad people who want to hunt you down, your goal? Survive. Use lots 
 of weapons: matchetes, baseball bats, glass, and even chainsaws. The half of the game is stealth, 
 but the other half is lots of shoot outs. Rockstar games shows us how good of a developer they 
 are. Mix elements well=Manhunt! I hope Manhunt 2 will come to PC!! The game is really violent. 
 Lots of gore and blood as well. Matchete? Hold the mouse bottom long enough until it gets red, 
 then release it! chack-chack a mini clip of choping the head off an enemy is shown which gives 
 you stress release. (don't do it in real life!! ;) ) Overall it's a hard jet beautiful, amospheric 
 game! Now stop and go buy it!! or download via steam!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilipepperman
Rating: 6
Date: May 6, 2008 9:07 pm PT
Review:  You wait in the darkness as some unsuspecting hunter passes by. you can hear your heartbeat pounding 
 through the speakers (or headphones) you creep up behind the guy with a chainsaw and wait till the 
 3 triangles around his helpless head turns red. then you pounce. You shove a working chainsaw down 
 through his cranium and all thats left is the rest of his body. thats manhunt.
  
  Manhunt is a good game, and has a good formula. Wait in the darkness, make sure a guy doesnt see 
 you, and do a deadly move on him. But thats what you do THE WHOLE GAME. It really doesnt change 
 that formula much until the gun sequences, which i thought were just kinda mediocre. The graphics 
 are real crappy now even on everything maxed out, but then you have to consider that it came out 
 in 2004. The punishing difficulty is another problem that plagues this game. There are some levels 
 where you are just seeing the SCENE FAILED screen over, and over, and over, and over, and over, 
 and over. well you get the point. If the game had some freakin devolpment at all then it would 
 be nice. its just a subpar ultraviolent stealth game that reminded me of PoP: Warrior Within, because 
 both games are probably the hardest i have ever played, except i acutally finished this one. 
 
  
  Overall, Manhunt just comes out being an ok game that has some good production values, but if i 
 were you, i would play a different game. Manhunt just isnt that good anymore and cant live up to 
 standards because it stays the same throughout the whole game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MichaelMorbid
Rating: 7
Date: May 5, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  we dig the concept. very dark, pretty original.
  
  the gta series borrows a lot from mob and gang movies, manhunt borrows a little more from horror 
 and survivor films. very "the running man"... the game is entirely comprised of lurking in the 
 dark as you creep up on your prey.
  
  ... and... not too much else matters.
  
  the game is fun for a while. the colorful characters, music, and scenery carry most of the game.
 
  
  once you've seen each of the violent animations once... you'll probably grow bored with it all.
 
  
  we don't know though... there's something charming about the game though. 
  
  the story is alright. not great, but alright.
  
  think it's just the characters. there are 
 gangs roaming around and they have pretty neat gimmicks... they could easily have come from one 
 of gta's darker neighborhoods.
  
  gameplay is pretty shallow.
  
  run... hide... lure... stab...
  
  the guns in the game kinda suck. the shoot outs are like 
 gta shoot outs. not very accurate... run and gun.
  
  it's a long game... which kinda hurts it actually. if the game were about half as long it'd probably 
 be an improvement. too much of a good thing maybe. not much to this game, but it does a solid job 
 of what there is.
  
  eh... it'd probably make for a better gta minigame, the whole stalk/kill thing. 
  
  for what 
 it's worth, we liked it. still leaving this game's classification "worth playing", because it really 
 is. it's been banned in a few countries and is considered one of the most controversial games of 
 all time... it's worth playing if only to appreciate it's cultural significance and know what others 
 are talking about first hand when they reference the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kragspire
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  Picture yourself on death row, about to die for unspeakable crimes against society. You are dragged 
 to the slab by under-paid state workers who would love nothing more then to see you rot in hell. 
 Being strapped to the bed and being administered the "blue syringe" are all that is left for you 
 now. Then, just like that, the lights go out and all is quiet. You awake to find that instead of 
 being dead, you are locked up in a sealed room with nothing but a voice-over on the surrounding 
 intercoms. He wishes to play a game with you, and in order to participate, you will need to become 
 his leading role in a series of disturbing snuff films. This is where you begin your story as James 
 Earl Cash, a death row inmate who just got a second chance.
  
  Manhunt takes some of the best elements of stealth gameplay and mixes it with a dark and grisly 
 story. The basic object of each level is to survive long enough to find the exit in locations such 
 as abandoned zoos, an overrun mental institution, and streets lined with enough cops to stop an 
 LA riot. While this is going on, you are being videotaped by a series of hidden cameras placed 
 around the levels. In order to please your captor, you must perform executions on the ones who 
 are out to gut you. These are called "hunters", and not to worry, they are all scum just like you. 
 Stealth is the key in this game as you will find that taking on more then one hunter with hand-to-hand 
 is suicide. Later on in the game, you will start to obtain an assortment of guns, which turn the 
 tide on stealth play in favor of strategic gunplay. The game does a great job of this however, 
 making you utilize cover to take the advantage.
  
  The gameplay can become unforgiving if you are caught with your pants down. It will only take a 
 few shots of a handgun to bring Cash down, making strategy and planning a must. Lucky enough, the 
 game places plenty of checkpoints throughout the levels in the case that you screw up, and believe 
 me you will. The game can become frustrating at times if you do not stop to think out your actions, 
 eliminating the run and gun approach. Even so, it is quite rewarding when a well thought out execution 
 of your enemies plays out as planned. 
  
  The graphics are well done and what we come to expect from a Rockstar title. Environments are loaded 
 with small details and plenty of variation between the levels. Character models are full of life, 
 provided the limited life that they have left when you are finished with them. The hunters, which 
 are basically just gangs, come in all sorts of different styles ranging from techno-skinheads to 
 disgruntled weekend warriors. There are some small issues with the sound quality, such as reverb 
 and distracting music. Often times I found myself playing without the sound on at all, and my personal 
 performance and skill improved from the lack of it. The sound samples and music provided are well 
 done however, giving a real creepy feeling if not for it's overuse in some areas. 
  
  What can I say? Rockstar games have done it again, while making every censorship blow a cork. The 
 game is packed with great stealthily gameplay and ultra violent content that would make Gacy spin 
 in his grave. Add in some decent replay value in the form of unlockables, and you have a game worthy 
 of pursuing the hunt. Just make sure you play this one with the lights off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface46
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 6
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 8
  Value: 6
  Tilt: 7
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  When I saw manhunt's images it seemed like it was a gory, fast paised, killing game. But... I 
 was wrong. It had a good story line, but it was to slow for me. You had to creep up to people and 
 kill them with a bat or piece of glass. The cut scenes where it showed the executions were cool 
 for a period of time... then it got uninteresting. However, the uprising of the game was towards 
 the end when you got guns. Then it slowly became funner and funner. Towards the end you started 
 to run around and shoot or snipe hundreds of guards. Blasting there heads off and such. So basically 
 the ending was what made me like the game.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HenriH-42
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  One of the main reasons I think that Manhunt is a great game, is because it *DARES* to be really, 
 really violent and gory. Most games today are really childish, as the most violent thing they have 
 is *laughs* a friggin ragdoll. 99% of modern games are about killing, but yet only very few of 
 them are *really* violent. Why? Partly because the mainstream audience is immature and can't stand 
 the sight of anything gory. And mostly because the media's view on violent video games is that 
 they are "murder simulators". Oh please... Anyway, let's start the review.
  
  Gameplay: 7.5/10
  - Manhunt's greatest part is no doubt the first half of the game. Sneaking 
 around, praying that that guy with a baseball bat won't see you before you get the change to chop 
 his head off. The sneaking works surprisingly well considering that this is the same game engine 
 that GTA III used. The second half of the game unfortunately turns out to be a third-person-shooter. 
 And a pretty lousy one too. Sure, it's fun to blast someone's head off with a shotgun. For the 
 first few times. Then it gets as repetitive as any other shooter. Been there, done that. BORING! 
 It's also very, very punishing since the enemies usually come in large groups and can kill you 
 in under 2 seconds. And you don't see save points that often.
  
  Atmosphere & Immersion: 8.5/10
  - As I said, the first half of the game is clearly the better 
 one. I think they should've ditched the shooter part of the game completely. The first half still 
 feels very atmospheric, due to the setting of the game, the graphics (noise filter, cinematic executions) , 
 and THE SOUND, but I will tell more details about those later. Anyway, it just feels very cool 
 to sneak around, waiting for the enemy to walk away from you and then you get to OWN him. Hard. 
 Especially if he had seen you and got a few hits on you. Ah, sweet revenge.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  - The GTA III engine looks kind of dated by now. That doesn't bother me at all 
 though. The shadows look dark enough and the noise filter effect is just wonderfully done. I think 
 the models are not as blocky as they could be, and the textures are mostly ok. So good job here.
 
  
  Sound: 9/10
  - Ohh yeah. Manhunt has some really kick-ass ambient music. It just makes you feel uncomfortable. 
 You NEED to play this with headphones. Alone. Voice acting is great too, most hunters really sound 
 like they are completely insane. Makes you want to hide from them even more, and makes you not 
 regret killing them.
  
  Physics: 3/10
  - There's not really almost any physics at all. Except when you open doors or kick trash cans. 
 That's it. VERY basic stuff. Not that it makes the game any worse, since the game doesn't really 
 NEED physics.
  
  Replay value: 6/10
  - Every stage you finish has a rating, ranging from 1 to 5 stars. Most players will probably get 
 2 or 3 in their first playthrough. It'll be hard to get 5 stars but if you score good, you get 
 all kinds of bonus things like cheat codes, new levels and concept art. I play this game again 
 from time to time, but the levels are linear and there is no real player choice except the way 
 you execute the enemies.
  
  Value for money: 8/10
  - Change it to 2/10 if you only buy this because it has guns in it. It's pretty cheap now, if you 
 can find it somewhere, since it's banned in some countries. Damn censorship.
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 10/10
  - The game has never crashed on my PC, and has no noticeable 
 bugs. Most medium to high end PCs can run it with everything (including 16xQ anti-alias) maxed 
 out no problem. I can even run it on my 7 year old PC with a decent frame rate.
  
  Will this game be remembered by old school gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - It could've 
 been, if it weren't for the shooter part of the game. It could have been a true classic if it was 
 pure stealth-action.
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - Fans of gory, violent, sick stuff. And horror movies. And stealth fans. If you can't stand getting 
 your ass kicked if you try to assault 3 guys armed with baseball bats, buy some unrealistic ownage-shooter 
 instead. Like Max Payne or... Serious Sam.
  
  Final score (not necessarily an average) : 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luiggi_DiMaggio
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2008 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Damn, Rockstar is reaaly good, how many time i lost playing Gta`s, how many time I lost in Max 
 Payne, i dont know, a good part of my life maybe.
  
  But, something not was right, Somethhing was Missing in those lost ages, yeah, fuc*ers ,I NEVER 
 PLAY MANHUNT,
  
  I know, i was really idiot, this game is from 2004, but I play Manhunt, in 2008.
  
  But well, 
 lets talk a Little More about this game, and a Little Less about my stupid Life,
  
  That fu*king cynic Voice of the Director when you Start, those cinematics when you kill the bastards, 
 the music,, the ambients, the escenarios, the looks of the enemys, the subliminals messenges on 
 the walls,,, ohhhhhh menn,, thats goood
  
  The Story,, is really simple,, but fuc*ing atractive, the missions never get boring, because , 
 yes , the gameplay is the same, but the missions are very different, save your family, kill a bastard, 
 escape from police,, survive in a prison, great. And the best, is not a short game,, you have to 
 play 20 missions to finished.
  
  The cinematics, men, are reallyy but really gore, the only bad of that, is that isnt a lot of 
 weapons to kill, and the cinematics get repetitives and borings after a while, making you use a 
 gun, after waste time in see the kills,
  
  But for me, the best of all, is the music, but, maybe not for all the music of the game, but yes,, 
 for one simple song, that song who remind me, the music of The Warriors (cult film of 1978, game 
 of rockstar) ,, and that hypnotized synthesizer.
  
  Thanks Again Rockstar, for happy my days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fallconet
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2008 5:56 am PT
Review:  most underrated game ever!
  
  i don't know what's wrong with this game in some people's sight, i finish it 2 times, and the second 
 time was even more fun, very violent, nice tools too hunting another hunters down, great great story 
 line.. very nice stroy line and ending, the characters, they are awsome from the movie director to 
 piggsy they are all great rolled and desigend ,graphics are so nice too... the best part of the 
 game to me is the soundtrack and overally the way they did with the voices, dialogues, cjaracter 
 voice actings and s. t . 
  
  the ony bad thing about it to me is that he can't sit, no need too sitting in the game but if he 
 could sit then they could made more place to hide for him.
  
  i can't tell you another bad about it, may the violence. the gruesome violencem i don't know to 
 me it was one of the best parts of the game, but if don't like his kind of violence.. then think 
 about manhunt 2 maybe, 
  a must own pc game for sure!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrizzlyJim
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 27, 2007 12:56 am PT
Review:  I'm about halfway through the game on "fetish". I enjoy the blood and guts, though it's a bit disappointing, 
 considering all the hype about how terrible and gory it's supposed to be. It's not as bad as the 
 reviews have credited it with. Perhaps they've got weak stomachs. To be truly gory, they would 
 need to show a lot more blood and guts. I'm a bit frustrated by the controls because they seem 
 a bit sluggish or slow. When being attacked, I try to back up and Cash responds with hesitation 
 or doesn't back up at all. What's really annoying is the save points. You get killed often so you 
 have to start at the save point all over again. After awhile, that gets really, really old. And 
 very often you kind of get lost in the game, in that you can't hit the O key to get a reminder 
 of exactly what you're supposed to do or accomplish. The guidance is brief and if you're caught 
 up in the action, you could miss it. It IS fun to blow the other guy's head off or perform some 
 grizzly execution. But, you shoot the other guy in the head repeatedly before he dies. THAT's annoying 
 too. The graphics are pretty good and the bloodshed is skimpy at best. Gory? I've seen real gore 
 and this doesn't quite get it. But, it's fair. It's a pretty good game and easy to learn, but repeating 
 levels over and over and over again is downright annoying! Interestingly, I had 12 bullets in my 
 revolver and fired about 4-5 only to learn I only had one shot left... Hmmmm... The baddies can 
 hurt YOU more than you can hurt them in most cases, except when you execute them. The worst thing 
 is that when you hit the fire button, there's somewhat of a hesitation, getting you killed often. 
 I don't know if that's a bug or a planned thing. I had to stop to keep the neighbors from calling 
 the police again. They don't appreciate me screaming at the computer when I get killed because 
 Cash doesn't fire when I hit the fire button... It's worth the money, but, it might be a bit frustrating 
 at times. Overall, it's fun and a good buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 12, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Innovative, a nice attemt at something new and refreshing, if you can call it that.
  
  However, it just turns out to be another game that will definetely not stay in my mind like Mafia, 
 GTA or others do. It's just a game. It is worth playing if you have played all the other good games, 
 and there are so many better games to play that I doubt this should have its turn unless you're 
 a hardcore gamer and go through games like panda goes through bamboo and so you have nothing else 
 to play since you have completed all the hype games and all the sequels of good games and you are 
 now wondering what you could play. Well that's where Manhunt steps in, it is worth playing but 
 not really, if you have anything better to do I suggest do that and play this game when bored.
 
  
  
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing if you have nothing 
 else to play
  6 - worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely 
 anything else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 as if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10) .
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life.
  
  Best Wishes to everyone,
  
  Zak 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cattmus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 6:43 am PT
Review:  1. great and original story unlike everything you've seen in a TPS
  
  2. good but not great graphics manage to create dark and deserted city locations like churches, scrapyards, subways 
 and more
  
  3. great sound fits with the theme and makes you feel like you're being hunted
  
  4. decent stealth 
 gameplay
  
  5. shooting sequences aren't that great but are still fun even if they very difficult at certain 
 points
  
  6. some extremely violent executions keep the action going and you won't get tired watching them 
 over and over again
  
  7. Starkweather's dialogues when you execute hunters are simply outstanding and often disturbing
 
  
  8. extreme language, disturbing writings on the walls, sexual and drug themes fit with the story extremely 
 well
  
  9. very entertaining if you got the stomach for it and overal a GREAT action game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: artursa
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 11:57 pm PT
Review:  I discovered the game while at my friend's place, the dude was playing it on his new computer and 
 at first it seemed like a really fun thing. The sick execution cut scenes immediately caught my 
 eye and I decided to give it a whirl at home.
  
  The audio is great and the graphics, though a bit cartoony, do the game justice. What really started 
 bothering me, was that about halfway through the game the whole thing turned from being a super 
 fun brainless stealth game with great humour, characters and gore into a boring GTA-style shootout. 
 Firefights have always been the weak side of GTA and as the interface was pretty much the same, 
 shooting at generic police officers, SWAT team members and Cerberus guards became a chore pretty 
 quickly.
  
  What is more, it was made WAY too difficult. I agree with the idea that a shooter has to be almost 
 frustrating at some points, creating a feeling of fulfillment once you complete it. But here it 
 wasn't balanced, I didn't have any interest in playing the game again, especially not in hardcore 
 mode.
  
  Thus the game's strong side is only its first. Later on it becomes repetitive and you have to waste 
 time in order to finish it. Valuable time that could already be spent playing some other cool game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssta
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  I played the game for a few times.
  I didn't really adere the game, i could say it's worth playing overall.
  The game interface is 
 GTA copy, the models, the weapons... but the story is not nearly similar.
  Infact, in a game like this, you just don't need a story. Well, maybe a little, but it can pass 
 through with a short one.
  And do not try to find point for this game, because it is a psichotic triller.
  Soon Manhunt 
 2 will be out, so we better be ready!
  
  I just couldn't resist, and i'll play it now one more time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Old_Gooseberry
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 23, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  I've had this game for a couple years laying around, finally decided to play it to see if its any 
 good. Well, I guess I shouldn't have wasted my time installing it, its the least amount of fun 
 I've had for months.
  
  Trying to play a stealth like game with primitive GTA type controls is frustrating as hell and 
 after the controls glitching for the 20th time, it was time to call it quits.
  
  I'm not sure if the PS2 version is any better, likely it is... but even if that is the case, its 
 still a pointless game. Time for this CD to become a permanent coaster.
  
  I suggest this game only to people sick enough to see what it may be like to stab someone in the 
 head with broken glass or suffocate someone with a plastic bag. A normal person won't find anything 
 to keep them playing this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jlhagad
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2007 12:52 am PT
Review:  In this game you take the role of a death row inmate who's given a 'second chance' and is forced 
 into the dark world of manhunts. Manhunts are basically these sick games where one guy is put up 
 against entire gangs and has to survive and achieve specific goals, all the while being video taped. 
 Sort of a play on snuff films.
  
  Now, manhunt's stealth system basically requires you to silently stay out of sight and wait till 
 enemies turn their backs on you. Then all you have to do is charge up your execution moves. This 
 can become exceedingly tedious when you have multiple enemies or a lack of dark shadows to hide 
 in. And other times it's just stupid how careless some of the enemies are when looking into shadows. 
 But then again, this game would probably be impossible without this handicap.
  
  When stealth fails you, or when you're in well lit buildings, strafing behind corners and popping 
 out with your shotgun or heavy pistols becomes your best option. This is the more enjoyable tactic 
 since you get to blow heads off, and the way they implemented the chunks just makes it fun to do 
 in succession. At first, you might think aiming would be trouble, but this is where the game's 
 auto-aiming aid comes into action. But this doesn't make the game boring, just a whole lot more 
 convenient. You'd still have to aim close to the enemy to get the auto-aim working. And aiming 
 at heads doesn't come automatically all the time.
  
  The game does have its weakness in that its melee combat is pretty much useless. Punching a guy 
 does the same damage as stabbing them in the face with a broken shard of glass. And whacking a 
 guy repeatedly with a crowbar doesn't do much damage either.
  
  The graphics and detail for this game are amazing and really bring out the 'hunt' in manhunt. Bloodstains 
 on walls and floors and some disturbing writings really bring you into the world of the insane. 
 The characters are especially well designed and have some variety to them. I would have liked to 
 have more big fat enemies to hack up, though. The radar system and the audio are also pretty well-made 
 and are vital to playing the game right. The whole tapping on walls thing kind reminded me of Metal 
 Gear. And so did sneaking up behind with a wire. It was kind of stupid that wires and glass shard 
 weren't reusable. It would also have been more interesting if he used some everyday objects like 
 pencils and butcher's knives.
  
  If you got the stomach for it or just love Rockstar's other games, then you should definitely try 
 this game out.
  
  Though i should mention that in the PC version, you don't get to unlock the 'God Mode', unlike 
 in the console versions. This was probably done to counter the exploit in the console versions 
 where having god mode on after finishing the game in the normal difficulty made finishing hard 
 mode too easy. Though i must say, having god mode would have made it more enjoyable to explore 
 the maps and experiment with alternative tactics. For the PC users at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Percypoo
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2007 6:31 am PT
Review:  Dispite the hurricane of contreversy that has swept across the world, the propoganda about this 
 game making people commit murder, the banning of this game from my local store, and my payment 
 card not working, was lucky enough to get my hands on this incredible game. (I got my mum to buy 
 it for me lol)
  
  I'll tell you now It's great in every way. The dark scary atmosphere, displayed in a grainy homemade 
 video style is fantastic, the scay music and taunts from your hugely diverse ememies send chills 
 up your spine and sneaking around executing people with tons of different ways with tons of different 
 weapons, backed up by some brilliant gunplay is just bliss. Plus, the intreeging story gets you 
 in a chokehold and you can't stop playing 'till you complete the game. When you have finished Manhunt 
 you can get better mission ratings on both difficulty levels to get unlockables. These include 
 arty things, cheat codes and ven bonus levels that make the game last even longer and oh yeah, 
 if you play the last mission with the lights off prepare to scream. You may or may not have heard 
 of piggsy but no spoilers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReliableSource
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2007 2:05 am PT
Review:  Manhunt for PC review
  ----
  Introduction: Your name is James Earl Cash. You have been sentenced to death by lethal injection, 
 but a psycho movie director known as Starkweather, saves you, and the injection you receive is 
 only anaesthetic. He promises to let you go free by midnight, but of course that is not going to 
 happen. You will have to go through 20 levels, called Scenes in this game, in order to finish the 
 game. But I shall not tell you more, as it would spoil it.
  
  GRaPHiCS: 9/10 This game is almost 4 years old, yet, the graphics are very nice. The characters 
 are very nicely design and could scare you some times. There is a lot of blood on the levels you 
 go through, and the buildings are well designed. Everything is well designed, to be brief.
  
  SoUnD: 10/10
  Although it can get repetitive (just like in almost every game) it will give 
 you the creeps. For instance, once you're spotted by a Hunter ( that's what they call the people 
 who chase you in order to kill you in this game ) , the music fits the occasion quite well. The 
 sound, is flawless. You can also cause distractions by hitting walls and objects, a feature you 
 cannot do without in this game.
  
  CoNTRoLS: 10/10
  Nothing difficult really. Even though I must be like the only person on earth who only found out 
 how to do the GREEN and RED executions (people who've played this game will know what I mean) towards 
 the end of the game (about chapter 16/20) . That's like so LOL!
  
  ReNT/BuY?
  My answer is a straight YES. You will find this game very entertaining, trust me! The price is 
 reasonable, and there are always other ways to get a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackBurton
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 14, 2007 8:51 am PT
Review:  Here's every soccer-mom's worst nightmare fully realised. A no holes barred gore-fest of gratuitous 
 non-stop decapitating, disemboweling, skull-crushing, eye-gouging, raw violence, with a Serial-killer 
 as the protagonist, murdering his way to freedom from the clutches of a Snuff-film Director, (SUPERBLY 
 voiced by Brian Cox) who snatched him off death-row in a faked execution, and is demanding him 
 to perform the most vicious, river-of-blood, money-shot kills possible, (kill-shots presented in 
 a real-time, cinematic-style, close-up) , using cleavers, meat-hooks, machetes, axes, crowbars, 
 sickles, (etc) against the absolute dregs of society as his intended meat (victims) . Are you ready 
 to play yet?! I don't know if there can be a middle-ground of opinion with this title. You'll likely 
 either love it, or hate it. But for what it is, it's done quite well. With the exception of the 
 last few levels, which are a series of brutal gunfights where you will still need to tactically 
 fire from behind cover to cover, or die quickly, this is mostly a pure stealth game. And a good 
 one, too. No dashing-and-slashing here. (not if you're trying to score that money-shot to appease 
 The Director's demands) . After a few levels, you'll probably grow tired of the (default) grind-house 
 film, 10th-generation-video FX, and can easily remove the feature through the video options set-up 
 menu. The game-play style is repetitive, but balanced by one of the game's nicest touches given 
 to it by the developers: giving each group of gangs their own personalities, including unique individual 
 personalities within, and making them quite verbose. You'll really want to wait in the darkness 
 and hear them out as they converse, or tell a story, (just like in The Operative: No One Lives 
 Forever) before luring each one to their gruesome slaughter. If nothing else, Manhunt is worth 
 a rental. Bottom-line: If this sounds like fun, IT IS! You might find it to be one of your guiltiest 
 of pleasures. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BdoggRAY
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 6, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  ULTIMATE GORE!! _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ithilgore2006
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 5, 2007 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Manhunt is from the now infamous Rockstar, who have a habit of making highly controversial game 
 series. Manhunt is probably their most controversial yet, simply because it is a game that rewards 
 and encourages violence in-game. What effects that might have on someone isn't really an issue 
 relevant to this review, so I won't be discussing any of the actions against Manhunt.
  
  The game is quite original in places, the premise for one, you are a convict, due to be executed, 
 but instead are bought from the corrupt police by The Director (excellently voiced by actor Brian 
 Cox) , a snuff movie maker, who dumps you on the streets with cameras everywhere, sending gang members 
 out for you to stalk and kill. This is the bulk of the game. This art design for the levels is 
 simply: grim. The levels are dark, very dark, which is a central part of he gameplay, and the city 
 you find yourself in is dystopian, run down and torn apart. Gang members prowl the streets, and 
 any law enforcement present is corrupt, paid off by the Director. Truly a depressing theme. The 
 graphics are quite impressive for their time. The game is clearly built of of the same engine Rockstar 
 used for GTA3, which is the engine they base most of their games off, however it's been mixed about 
 quite a bit. The game's heavy emphasis on lighting is shown in the graphics, as the lighting in 
 the game is superb for the time released. Effects are nicely done, the models are not hugely detailed, 
 but still work well.
  
  Sound, the game can't really be criticized, the voice acting is top notch, and the ambient noises 
 are hugely effective at creating a creepy and uneasy atmosphere. There is more or less no music 
 in this game, which in fact adds to the atmosphere, rather then subtracting as one might expect.
 
  
  In gameplay, the majority of the game relies on stealth action. The enemies are far from pushovers, 
 and your character is no stronger then they are. Straight on fights will lose you points, lose 
 you a lot of health (if not your whole life) and lose you the element of surprise. Thus you will 
 spend a lot of time sneaking, hiding in shadows and jumping men from behind. The weapons are many 
 and varied, all with their own stealth kill animation, those in themselves split into three per 
 weapon (hasty, medium, and gruesome, depending on how long you are preparing to strike a man from 
 behind) . Later in the game, with the introduction of guns, it becomes less stealth orientated and 
 more run and gun style, though you are still vulnerable and will be hiding a lot. The game has 
 a high level of difficulty, especially on the later levels. The game's violence is quite extreme, 
 mostly in the stealth kills. The game does not shy away, the kills are drawn out and shown in full 
 detail with close up shots. For example, using the baseball bat, a hasty kill will have him strike 
 the enemy quickly in the back and then in the face, a medium, will have him hit the enemy in the 
 stomach, making him double over, then hit him over the head. The gruesome kill, then, sees you 
 strangling the enemy with the bat, until he is almost unconscious and on his knees, the player 
 then takes a full swing at the side of the enemy's head, literally smashing it apart and splattering 
 the brains everywhere.
  
  Thus the game is not for the squeamish, it's massive amount of violence, grim subject matter and 
 sometimes frightening atmosphere will wear the faint hearted down quickly. However, should you 
 be able to stomach all that, you will find an enjoyable stealth action game, with a decent length 
 and a good few unlockables to come back for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_being
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 18, 2007 2:01 am PT
Review:  Manhunt, a violent and controversial game by Rockstar (responsible for the Grand Theft Auto series) , 
 puts you in the shoes of James Earl Cash, a death-row inmate turned snuff movie star. Your goal 
 is pretty much obvious from the start: survive.
  Cash will be hunted by various gang members throughout different locations in the fictional Carcer 
 City, where crime is on the rise and cops do little to prevent it. The only help he will get comes 
 in the form of an ear-piece with a man calling himself The Director on the other side. He will 
 guide Cash in the first moments of the game, and will occasionally warn him about incoming enemies 
 or give advice on certain situations. The rest is up to you.
  Cash can use pretty much anything to kill, maim or just cause harm. The arsenal ranges from a broken 
 piece of glass to the all time favorite shotgun. The major gameplay element in Manhunt is the stealth 
 kills. Just position Cash behind an unsuspecting gang member and hold down the attack button- 
 the longer you hold it, the bloodier the kill. Once the stealth kill mechanism will kick into action, 
 you will see the kill through what seems to be a surveillance camera, a nice touch that keeps you 
 going and constantly reminding you of the gruesome themes in the game.
  
  Manhunt starts out with a bang; the first few levels are awesome, the stealth gameplay works really 
 well and the stealth kills are gruesome and entertaining.
  There isnt much else to the game, except the change of scenery. Most of the enemies in the game 
 act pretty much the same: some will charge you, some will ambush you. And some will run away to 
 get help, but if you stick to the shadows, you wont find any major difficulty in taking them out. 
 The AI is not the best there is and sometimes youll find it way to easy to lure enemies into the 
 darkness, where you can dispose of them easily.
  
  The game takes a turn for the worse the moment cash gets his blood covered hands on a gun (around 
 the zoo level) . From there on (up until the last level) Manhunt changes its skin- from a neat stealth 
 game to a run and gun shooting gallery. Head shots arent hard to pull off and most of the enemies 
 will die from a single pistol shot to the head and you can probably kill 2 or 3 enemies in a row 
 before they can even fire back a single round.
  There are a few moments when youll need to relay on stealth to complete a certain objective, like 
 escorting a reporter back to her apartment trough the cop-filled streets, but those moments will 
 eventually disappear as you progress through the game.
  
  Its been mentioned before that Manhunt was developed by Rockstar games, and it shows. The graphics 
 are really similar to those in the GTA series, only a bit more gritty. The third person view helps 
 you locate enemies faster and sneak up to them will little difficulty. Character modals are a bit 
 blocky and the blood doesnt look real enough, but the quantity makes up for the quality.
  The best looking part of Manhunt is the environments in Carcer city. Every location looks and feels 
 menacing and unnerving, even with no enemies around, especially the outdoors levels.
  
  Most of the voice acting is decent, except the two most important ones. Cash and the Director are 
 both unrealistic and can be really annoying at times, especially Cash, which always comes off as 
 a tough-guy with no remorse or feelings in general.
  Every different gang has its own dialog and background noises. A certain gang will shout at you 
 to come out of hiding and face them, while others really seem to enjoy the hunt and will taunt 
 and laugh at you every time theyll spot you.
  
  Dont expect Manhunt to satisfy your need for stealth, but if you are looking for a gory experience 
 with loads of blood and decapitated bodies, then Manhunt is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Walker11
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 15, 2007 10:14 pm PT
Review:  When i bought manhunt i was genuinly impressed by how fun it can be, however after i got to the 
 3rd level i was bored as hell. It resembles realism but it is that realistic it isnt fun. The graphcs 
 are dull and you would have to an idiot to admire the violence. Made me quite sick. And my favourite 
 game is Hitman Blood Money. The story line is pathetic, just a load of made up garbage, an excuse 
 for making more violence. Although i must give some credit to the game like its well created maps 
 and weapons and its great stealth realism. CHECK YOUR BARGIN BIN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FEPowered390
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jul 6, 2007 2:25 am PT
Review:  Manhunt is a prime example of a run-of-the-mill rockstar game that should have stayed on the console.
 
  
  Once you go over to the PC/Macintosh realm, you play with the big boys.
  
  When I purchased this game, I was expecting to see really good stealth mechanics, such as stuff 
 in Hitman and Metal Gear Solid (best radar system) .
  
  Absolutely not. The gameplay is on the boring side, with a repetitive nature.
  
  The radar 
 is almost completely useless. How you ask? Here's how. All you see are red dots. Remeber MGS? You 
 see vision cones, explaining the direction that the enemy is facing.
  
  In Manhunt you could be behind a wall, and looking at a red dot on your radar, determining that 
 the bad guy is on the other side. But you have no idea which way he is facing because the camera 
 angles are poor. You decide to peek around the corner... BAM! caught. This is how alot of your experience 
 is going to be. No true mechanics to really experience and study your environment.
  
  In conclusion, Manhunt is slightly worth checking out due to it's grotesque storyline but it doesn't 
 really capture much tactical gameplay and leaves a lot of strategic Hitman like gamers in the dark
 
  
  Rockstar should start trying something new. Violence is not the only things games should have. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 1, 2007 11:56 pm PT
Review:  Such a degree of violence and satire is rare in video games, other than the Postal series. Even 
 GTA 3 doesn't go as far as this. If deep down inside you have a fetish for gruesome death sequences, 
 you're in for a real treat with Manhunt.
  
  Manhunt features a stealth-heavy 3rd person shooter with a gross twist. It's a unique blend of 
 Hitman-like stealth gameplay and GTA 3 style shooter action, complete with a large dosage of sickening 
 executions planted by your character, Cash. From glass shards to meat cleavers to chainsaws, the 
 creative death animations will make Quentin Tarantino proud to make a movie out of this.
  
  Personally, I'm more intrigued by the stealth factor rather than the violence of this Rockstar 
 installation. It features a logical and addictive stealth combat system complete with intuitive 
 enemy visual and aural sense complimented with a shadow and noise level cue by your character. 
 The ability to fool and instant kill opponents via these elements make this game an addictive hit.
 
  
  However, the hard gameplay even in the normal settings and slightly unfair save-point system render 
 it a pain to enjoy sometimes, particularly when you want to complete the level with a high rating. 
 But then, it's still a guilty pleasure to play.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 23, 2007 5:54 am PT
Review:  rockstar did cery good with this game i have too say because every time i exit the game i always 
 wanted to come back and play
  
  GRAPHICS: very good graphics no mistaks here man and the blood is made very cool
  SOUND: not something 
 amazing but good engh for me and hopefully for you to
  GAMEPLAY: amazing game play never gets repedetive and thats very good because in 1 mission you have 
 to save your family and in another you need to escape from a zoo..... a zoo!!! how cool is this 
 game?
  
  well i really hope there is gonna be a MANHUNT 2 because i cant waint...
  but the problem is that i dont have any idea for the second game plox so we have a small problem 
 here
  
  well thats all i have to say 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icarus405
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 22, 2007 6:20 am PT
Review:  Manhunt was originally released on the consoles, but it has made a steady transition to the PC, 
 while leaving the original gameplay mechanics completely intact. In Manhunt you play as James E. 
 Cash, a convicted felon on death row. A few hours after his execution he wakes up alive and well, 
 finding himself playing the lead roll in a snuff film directed by a madman. As you are placed in 
 different environments against different opponents (from hooded gangsters to insane asylum inhabitants) , 
 you have to kill to avoid being killed, while maintaining hope of escape. The gameplay is simple, 
 fun and extremely brutal. Most of the game revolves around stealth. Using a simple interface, you 
 can hide in the shadows and use either bait (bricks, bottles or even heads) or knock on walls to 
 lure your opponents. When they turn their back on you, you can perform a killing move. Killing 
 moves are divided into 3 colors: Gray (quick and mostly painless) , Yellow (Vicious, a little rougher) 
 and Red (Gruesome, not very pretty) . The longer you creep behind your enemy, the more brutal the 
 kill. You have a wide variety of weapons to choose from, starting from bats and clubs to hammers 
 and nail guns. Somewhere along the way, the game introduces firearms and throughout the game, there 
 are levels that consist only of shooting sequences. Later on, you can use both whenever you like. 
 Shooting is fun and challenging. Head shots kill with a single shot, but weapons have a certain 
 range, at which they can hit. Usually you are positioned against a wall or behind cover and then 
 you use the Action 2 button to pop out and manually aim your enemies, who will do exactly the same. 
 There isn't a very wide variety of firearms, but the game mostly consists of sneaking anyway. The 
 game isn't too long, but as it is with all stealth games, it feels a lot longer than it actually 
 is. There are 20 missions, each one will take you an average of 30 minutes to complete. You can 
 also choose from 2 difficulties, Fetish (Normal) or Hardcore (a little tougher and with no radar) . 
 The graphics are quite good. Although the game uses a modified GTA engine, it looks fantastic, 
 runs great on older PC's and the loading times are virtually nonexistent. The effects truly give 
 it its own special flavor and style, that all Rockstar games have. The sound is the best part of 
 Manhunt. Although you might recognize a few sounds from the GTA games, most of them are original 
 and all are top-notch. The voice acting is even better, enemies will say all kinds of interesting 
 and sometimes, funny things. The mental patients in the Asylum level are particularly noteworthy. 
 The game also has great music, that fits perfectly with the style and feel of the game and the 
 music will change, depending on the alertness of the enemy. The controls for Manhunt are perfect 
 - simple, yet challenging. Once you get the hang of the basic strategies, you will be taking down 
 your enemies with relative ease. Throughout the game you will be rewarded points, depending on 
 how silent and how brutal you were, these points unlock some extras (concept art, forfeited ideas 
 and other stuff. On the Hardcore difficulty you will be awarded a maximum of 5 stars, but all the 
 bonuses need just 3 to be unlocked, so you shouldn't have too much trouble unlocking all of them. 
 Overall Manhunt is a solid stealth game, it is simple, fun and very addictive. Though the brutality 
 might be a bit too much for some people to handle, it isn't nearly as gruesome as what you see 
 in games like Soldier of Fortune or movies like SAW or The Texas Chainsaw Massacre. If you like 
 stealth games, this is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taraboi1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 4, 2007 1:55 am PT
Review:  Manhunt... the title says everything. Pure violence, great stealth gamepley, well chosen graphics 
 for a horror game, Manhunt is most-likely played by sickos and sadystyc people (not like me... 
 but i still love to play it :D ) . It's a great game that combines stealth with horrible blood scenes 
 that can be seen in that camera effect that gives you the impression you're watchin a great horror 
 movie suitable for adults only. Manhunt tends to frustrate you at some scenes because guns will 
 be introduced in the game and all the stealth just crashes after a few levels. Although stealth 
 may not be appreciated by others, it will be appreciated by most people, but even if you don't 
 like stealth you'll still like the brutal violence, the blood and gore and the tensity of this 
 game... so all people (except kids ;) ) ) go and buy Manhunt now if you don't own it already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maggon_rohit
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2008 11:43 pm PT
Review:  Simply the best stealth action game i've played so far.
  Splinter Cell and Thief can bite the dust, Sam Fisher and Garrett dont have psychotic freaks hunting 
 them down.
  
  It doesnt take long to learn to exexcute your enemies and there are some really sweet executions 
 that our character Mr. James Earl Cash can do
  He has access to 4 differant types of weapons and he can carry one of each type. Each weapon has 
 3 differant executions , each with rising gore level.
  
  The arsenal at our disposal is pretty good-plastic bags (who would have thought these could be dangerous, 
 think again) ,glass shards, stakes baseball  but 
 my personal favourite the hammer.
  
  The stealth mechanics is pretty simple just stand in the shadows and no one will know that you're 
 there, this is probably the only slightly disappointing thing about the game, you can stand in the 
 shadows in the same place for hours and no one will notice you, even when the enemies locate you 
 snooping around outside the shadows and start chasing you, you can run and if you manage to step 
 into a shadow when you are away from their line of sight thats the end of the chase.
  
  Story is something that i havent seen in a game so far. You are workig as an actor for a snuff film 
 director because he has promised to give you your life back .Each level is a scene in which you 
 hace to survive and the enemies have to be killed as brutally as possible to get a good end level 
 rating .The goals to achieve in certain levels are pretty cool, my personal favourite when Cash 
 has to rescue his relatives (there is a catch) .
  
  The levels take place in a wide range of areas, zoos, malls, deserted streets, houses etc.
  
  The 
 interface is to the point ,it has a radar which shows nearby enemies, the level of sound you're 
 making, a small white figure of Cash which turns blue when you're in the shadow, the weapons that 
 you're carrying and your health bar
  
  All in all , a fun game with lots of gore, immersive story but no replayability, if you finish it 
 once you practically know that level, the enemy locations and their patrol routes etc ,the only 
 reason to play a level again is to improve the level completion rating, to unlock artwork and the 
 4 bonus levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_hunger
Rating: 5.9
Date: Mar 10, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  The premise of Manhunt seems fresh enough: protagonist gets off death row, is dropped in a dangerous 
 part of town, and is hunted by thugs while the cameras are rolling. On the good side, the game 
 has convincing atmosphere, the gameplay mechanics work well, the cutscenes are good, and the voice 
 acting is appropriate for the theme. Bad side: very repetitive gameplay, cheap tactics can get 
 you out of most tight spots, and you never really feel connected to the character or his story. 
 This is too bad, given that the developer (Rockstar) has made some truly amazing games (like Grand 
 Theft Auto 3) using similar mechanics and themes.
  
  Manhunt is pure and simple a stealth game. Cash, the protagonist, can fight hand-to-hand, but the 
 game is intended to be placed in stealth mode. Some of the stealth killings are indeed intense 
 and gruesome, but after about 5 missions they become less shocking. The game primarily consists 
 of distracting an enemy, finding a hiding place, sneaking up behind him, and executing him. Wash, 
 rinse, repeat. Some people are going to like this, and I must admit that the brutality of the kills 
 is morbidly fascinating, at least at first. However, this kind of gameplay has been done much better 
 in games such as Hitman. If you can stand the very repetitive nature of the gameplay, this might 
 be worth checking out. Otherwise, try something like Hitman: Blood Money or one of the Splinter 
 Cell games instead.
  
  Pros
  +Good idea for a game
  +Some truly over-the-top executions
  +Good voice acting
  +Typical controls for this sort of 
 game
  
  Cons
  -extremely repetitive after a while
  -merely decent graphics
  -not enough tension
  -little character development
  -the checkpoint save-game system 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordLeckie
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 3, 2007 2:16 am PT
Review:  When i first rented out manhunt it intriuged me and i soon found myself purchasing it. Needless 
 to sya i do not regret this decision as i found manhunt a gripping and gory action game that appeals 
 to my darker side.
  
  You are James Earl Cash a murderer saved at the eleventh hour by the sadistic snuff film maker 
 lionel starkweather, after a brief introduction you find yourself progressing through the streets 
 of rundown carcer city in an attemp to please the director and somehow find a way out of your nightmarish 
 landscape.
  
  The charachter presentation could have a been better with some more facial expressions for both 
 Cash and the hunters as well as some extra dialouge for Cash but overall after playing you feel 
 like you now know Cash.
  
  The gameplay at first is a little limited but engaging and suspeseful mostly, but unfortunately 
 near the end stealth takes a back seat to gun battles that while brutal, dont offer the same depth 
 of cutting out your victims intestines with an 18th century sickle.
  
  The grainy graphics add to the mood of the game and this exploited to full potential with executions 
 which are the way which you will kill the majority of enemies in the game each brutal gory and 
 sadistic to the extreme with starkweather egging you on to create river of blood with each encounter 
 and complementing you on particuly cruel executions.
  
  The sound is tense but not all to memorable and in some places i wish there where environmental 
 kills and my fingers are crossed that the AI in manhunt 2 is better, but i still loved this game 
 as it oozes personality and satisfys the base instinct of all humans to gut the nearest other human 
 in the worst possible way.
  
  Most levels with take several trys before you finish and the later levels such as level 18 are 
 insanely hard and are disapointing in the lack of stealth kills but overall a great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 20, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  Manhunt is a game that helps you relieve stress by bashing your enemy's heads in with assortments 
 of weapons and death scenes. While it may decrease some stress it usually adds more stress and 
 frustration to the player rather than help calm them. This happened to me a lot when playing against 
 the A. I. who had guns. If you can get past the fact of dumb A. I. and frustrating sequences then 
 you will find a solid game that is a clash between Splinter Cell, GTA, and a snuff film. ManHunt 
 really capitalizes on the snuff and dirty scenes that make the death scenes feel authentic and 
 original. You get a lot of weapons such as bats, poles, and a few different guns at the end, which 
 are a lot of fun to execute bad guys with. The gameplay and graphics overall are what you would 
 expect from a game from the guys who made GTA but the hard parts and horrible A. I. somewhat ruin 
 a game that could have been much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thechampion
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 6, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  The game be gory and some ofyou may not be able to take but look on the other side. Your killing 
 people that are bad people like gangs, pysco people and serial killers. My favoriteis using the 
 headset. You use theheadset to lure enimies by talking into it or makealoud sound into the headset 
 butbe carefull because if youmakea sound loud enough while you try to finish him of. He will hear 
 you and you will get spoted. Theres somany ways to kill people that it makes it like your abadass 
 killer but doing it to live. This game is mixed with Splinter Cell and Metal Gear Solid stealth. 
 So if you like those type of games but with more gore. Then, you might as well pick this game up. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anas582
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Very thrilling, suspensful, and a great storyline to the end. It is filled with Shooting, Stealth 
 and the idea to run if there is a chance avalible so i highly recommend this game to people who 
 love shooters, stealth-action and medium-legnth games requires very fast reflexes and huge attention 
 span.
  And tons of violence and meele weapons and filled with huge suspense and perfect audio. and okay 
 enemy AL which is fairly believable and fairly difficult games. and a highly addictive game that 
 is to some people it is infinitly replayable to them. and great grapics and value and a nice gameplay 
 and short learning curve and easy to understand controls and HUD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ell_the_strange
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 3, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  I had heard about this game from an old friend from high school, and only last week bought it on 
 a whim. So far, it has been exactly as my friend had told me, in gameplay and plot. This disturbing 
 but addictive game chronicles the death of James Earl Cash and his fight for survival. Full of 
 dark humor, violence and gore, Manhunt is exactly what the Chicago Tribune called it: The Clockwork 
 Orange of Video Games. With only a variety of weapons, multiple levels of killing, and the harping 
 voice of the Director Starkweather, Cash must survive or become someone else's paycheck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dagamemonkey
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 28, 2006 6:20 am PT
Review:  Before I played Manhunt I though I knew how to define violence in terms of video games. My past 
 definition of a violent video game would have been in the ranks of Soldier of Fortune 2 or Bloodrayne 
 2, but after purchasing Manhunt that definition changed. Manhunt is now easily the most violent 
 and graphic game I own. Though I am not an all-out violence and gore buff I can honestly say Manhunt 
 pulls my strings. This game is mostly stealth-based, but later on in the game the player can pick 
 up weapons such as pistols, shotguns, and sniper rifles. Players can also use weapons such as 
 a nail gun or a chainsaw much to my satisfaction.
  
  Manhunts gameplay as stated prior is mostly stealth-related, but that stealth element makes this 
 game so much more tense as you lie in wait for a passing victim. In the early going you as convict 
 James Earl Cash must rely on an assortment of weapons including a plastic bag and glass shards 
 to make your way through the first level. The first level is basically a tutorial which will help 
 the player get used to Manhunts unique way of combat. An interesting but fun feature is that the 
 player can bang something while in a dark room or in the shadows to lure hunters to you. As long 
 as you remain in the shadows you will remain undetected from hunters, and this provides the player 
 with the opportunity to pull off a kill. Shadows, as you will find throughout Manhunt, will become 
 very close allies in your fight for survival. After the lure is taken you wait until they turn 
 around or so and move in for the kill. You move in right behind them and the target turns white 
 indicating you are ready to execute the execution. These executions are shown by the view of a 
 camera in a juicy spot to see the victim suffer or blood spurt out. Sometimes the blood will splatter 
 on the camera screen making the kill that much more vicious. The games violence is extremely graphic 
 and inhuman and will most definitely live up to the descriptor of intense violence. The killings 
 are also interesting because the level of noise will depend on what kind of toy you choose to employ 
 either it be a plastic bag or a baseball bat. This factor depends on if other hunters in the nearby 
 vicinity will be alerted to your presence. And if they are then run for your life and duck into 
 a patch of shadows and the hunters will lose you. Thankfully you have a handy radar showing the 
 position of the hunters in your area and the level of noise you project. The hunters are identified 
 by colored arrows. The color yellow means all is well, orange means they know someone/something 
 is nearby and are searching around, and red means they know where you are. The noise factor is 
 fun, and can be a boon as well as a curse, as you must regulate how much noise you make when hunters 
 are near. Certain noises only project short distances, but louder noises such as banging on a wall 
 or dumpster will alert any hunter on your radar and put them in the orange. Perhaps the most unique 
 feature about Manhunts gameplay in general is the fact the whole game looks as if its being played 
 through the lens of a camera. The environment looks grainy much like a camera and cutscenes are 
 often riddled with tracking.
  
  Graphics in Manhunt are unique, as stated in gameplay, look much like a video camera is recording 
 your actions. And when you pull of an execution the camera takes a nice place so you can see the 
 bloody, sick violence very well. For example, when you decide to use the knife as your weapon and 
 pull off a level 3 execution you gouge the victims eyes out and blood streams from the wounds. 
 Or if you prefer baseball you can choke the victim and set him up for a home run by smashing his 
 head off almost completely with a bat. The game is always very dark, and very creepy. Levels vary 
 very nicely and look run-down and just dont look like very nice places to be at night. Youll 
 find trailers, old abandoned homes, etc. to explore. The nice thing about the levels is that they 
 are full of locations with shadows, which makes it easier to lure hunters to you and escape if 
 spotted or overwhelmed. Basically all of Manhunt is played like you were in front of a camera. 
 However, dont let this minor item deter you from getting Manhunt. If you are a blood-and-guts 
 fiend then you will fall in love with Manhunt.
  
  Sound is, perhaps, something that no other game could achieve. Manhunt captures the sheer tension 
 of a killer and his prey, and they are about to clash violently. The game has little real music, 
 per se, but youll hear the steady beat of a heart when all is well. When things heat up the throbbing 
 goes faster. This element alone inspires terror and absolute tension around every corner. Of course, 
 along with sickening scenes you have to have sickening sounds. When you strangle someone it sounds 
 very disturbing and when you smash someones brains for a homerun youll hear the brains fall on 
 the ground with a sick splattering sound. The voices in the game are done very well, in cut scenes 
 and in-game. Its sometimes funny to listen to the hunters make a quip like I wish I had a book. 
 I wish I could read. or something to that effect.
  
  I found Manhunt for $10 new at EB Games. For the sheer enjoyment of its graphic violence and tense 
 gameplay $10 is awesome. You may even want to play Manhunt on hardcore mode, which is hard, to 
 get a great challenge. If you can stomach this kind of grotesque game then you will probably want 
 to play through the game again, just to satisfy your sick pleasure. Youll want to try to pull 
 of a 5-star production after the scene is complete to unlock special cheats like bonus costumes 
 and invisibility. You accomplish this by pulling off level 3 executions often and basically being 
 a master at what you do.
  
  As mentioned early on Manhunt is rated for intense violence, and it lives up to it in spades. 
 Manhunt is not for everyone, as it will most likely bother younger gamers and give them nightmares. 
 Theres also some pretty strong language such as the common use of four letter expletives. Despite 
 the adult content, Manhunt is possibly Rockstars most violent game, and also its most tense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronygreat
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 21, 2006 11:06 pm PT
Review:  The primary goal of the game is to sneak your way through each level while attacking the guards 
 that are there to stop your progress. The premise sounds simple, but it is far from it. You are 
 always outgunned and outnumbered. Health is easy to lose, and is not easy to replenish. You are 
 always looking to move from shadow to shadow, slowly lurking your way through each level, while 
 finding opportunities to kill the guards. All the while, you are goaded by the mysterious voice, 
 taunting you for more action and less rest, or how he just got off on that kill.
  
  . Landscapes are spartan and generic. They are devoid of any unique structures that really stand 
 out. Your surroundings are mostly urban, but they just have no features that stand out. Most levels 
 just look like the next. Character graphics are similar, although they look a little better than 
 their console counterparts due to the ability to run at a higher resolution. The opponents you 
 face are void of substantial detail to make them stand out. Death animations are the one place 
 where the games graphics shine. You get a visceral sense of the carnage, as blood splatters onto 
 the screen. You see bone fragments fly away from the bodies as they are pummeled into nothingness. 
 The raw violence is captured in its entire flurry by the carnage resulting from your actions. You 
 may even feel you conscious calling as you witness your actions in every gory detail. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slannmage
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 26, 2006 9:49 am PT
Review:  I got the PS2 version, didn't like it but brought the PC version and loved it :)
  
  Gameplay:
  
  It's very linear and the AI is sooo stupid and boring but the comments they make 
 are funny. The gameplay is basically all based around doing the best looking murders for the camera, 
 thats where i got all my fun :) It does change from a hack and slash stealth game to a all up shooter 
 and tbh i wudda just prefered all the time spent on more ways to kill people.
  
  All in all the gameplay is solid, but does become very linear.
  
  Graphics:
  
  For a game 
 that came out in 2004 based on the GTA engine i thought it looked great :) It was clean and crisp 
 and the grainy effects on the camera were great. The main character looks great and probally one 
 of my top 10.
  
  Sound:
  
  Sounds are great and funny + lots of tension, i would have prefered more though.
  
  Value:
 
  
  Pretty cheap so great value too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prince_elad_69
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2006 3:01 pm PT
Review:  rockstar did cery good with this game i have too say because every time i exit the game i always 
 wanted to come back and play
  
  GRAPHICS: very good graphics no mistaks here man and the blood is made very cool
  SOUND: not something 
 amazing but good engh for me and hopefully for you to
  GAMEPLAY: amazing game play never gets repedetive and thats very good because in 1 mission you have 
 to save your family and in another you need to escape from a zoo..... a zoo!!! how cool is this 
 game?
  
  well i really hope there is gonna be a MANHUNT 2 because i cant waint...
  but the problem is that i dont have any idea for the second game plox so we have a small problem 
 here
  
  well thats all i have to say
  
  BYE BYE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 16, 2006 9:28 pm PT
Review:  Rockstars Manhunt takes the stealth genre and kicks it up several notches with a harsh brutality 
 that is rarely found in PC games today. You will squirm and shift in your seat when you see some 
 of the brutal moves you need to use to finish the game. It succeeds at the stealth formula, but 
 you still feel wrong playing it because of the violence.
  
  In Manhunt, you play James Earl Cash, a convicted criminal who allegedly killed his wife and child. 
 After his execution, you are awakened by a motley crew and a voice. The voice belongs to a man 
 that films huge snuff films and has decided that Cash is the next player in one of his films. Along 
 the way you find out how you came to be here and more about the mysterious voice that guides you 
 along in your adventure, while setting you up for failure at every turn. This story is surprisingly 
 engrossing and really gives a lot to the repetitive nature of the game in the later levels. It 
 takes awhile for the game to put all the pieces together to find out who your evil benefactor is 
 and how you got there. The journey is satisfying and will leave you with questions that may get 
 answered at a later date.
  
  The primary goal of the game is to sneak your way through each level while attacking the guards 
 that are there to stop your progress. The premise sounds simple, but it is far from it. You are 
 always outgunned and outnumbered. Health is easy to lose, and is not easy to replenish. You are 
 always looking to move from shadow to shadow, slowly lurking your way through each level, while 
 finding opportunities to kill the guards. All the while, you are goaded by the mysterious voice, 
 taunting you for more action and less rest, or how he just got off on that kill.
  
  The weapons at your disposal for eliminating the opposition are limited, but more than adequate 
 to dish out pain. You start out with a simple plastic bag that you use to suffocate an opponent 
 and work your way up through garrote wires, bats and machetes. And sneaking up on your prey is 
 not enough in this game. You must decide how long to wait before you kill. The longer you wait, 
 the more gruesome the death and the more fetish points you earn at the end of the level. A short 
 wait gives you a simple whack over the head with a bat. But wait long enough and you will get a 
 kill that beats your enemy into submission and then uses his head for t-ball practice. Dont wait 
 too long, or you will be noticed and your death will come soon after. Fetish points are given 
 at the completion of a level and are based on your carnage. If you lay out all brutal kills on 
 a level, you will get a high fetish level which will unlock extra content. This content is somewhat 
 trivial as it is mostly artwork and nothing more substantive. But for a completionist, this is 
 a challenge, because it is very difficult to get full fetish points on every level. Again, feedback 
 on your fetish level is given by your benefactor as he chimes in on your violence or lack of 
 it.
  
  The visuals are a mixed bag. Landscapes are spartan and generic. They are devoid of any unique 
 structures that really stand out. Your surroundings are mostly urban, but they just have no features 
 that stand out. Most levels just look like the next. Character graphics are similar, although they 
 look a little better than their console counterparts due to the ability to run at a higher resolution. 
 The opponents you face are void of substantial detail to make them stand out. Death animations 
 are the one place where the games graphics shine. You get a visceral sense of the carnage, as blood 
 splatters onto the screen. You see bone fragments fly away from the bodies as they are pummeled 
 into nothingness. The raw violence is captured in its entire flurry by the carnage resulting from 
 your actions. You may even feel you conscious calling as you witness your actions in every gory 
 detail.
  
  Audio is an important factor in the game and it really helps with the suspense. Sneaking around 
 is the name of the game, so audio has to play in a big way to convey your skulking in the shadows. 
 If you run, your steps let off an echo that could give your position away. Same with walking over 
 loose gravel, or a fallen fence. These audio cues really add to the suspense, because you have 
 to decide how you will approach an objective based on the terrain in front of you. Ambient audio 
 is limited and really not needed, as the eerie quiet of each scene will give you the chills. The 
 voice work by Brian Cox is great and he gives great emphasis to the mysterious benefactor that 
 is taunting you. His constant overbearing commentary on your actions just makes you want to get 
 him even more. The rest of the cast is more of a miss and have pretty much phoned it in. It is 
 unfortunate, because the main character would have received more care if they would have had a 
 decent voice over. As it is, you dont really feel a connection to his personality.
  
  While the stealth portion of the game is rather well done, it is the unbridled violence that will 
 catch your eye. The violence is raw and unnerving. The caving-in of skulls with bats or the dismemberment 
 by chainsaw, it will make you squirm. The question has to be asked whether violence of this nature 
 was actually needed. You want to say yes at first, but as you perform the same type kill for the 
 thirtieth time, you start to say that the violence is there just for violence sake. The constant 
 killing takes away the meaning of it all and that is the games undoing. You needed to have more 
 unique kills or reduce the amount of killing to give it a sense of purpose.
  
  With its sparse environments and limited kills, the game just falls short of being a successful 
 stealth action game. The sneaking and skulking in the shadows makes for a satisfying experience, 
 but the relentless violence takes away from the significance of why you are there in the first 
 place. It is enjoyable, but only to a certain point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ziegd
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 11, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  ... and I think that's the moral message many critics missed. OK, it's cruel, violent, sick, etc 
 (I have to confess, the thought of making a snuff film was pretty disturbing to me at the outset) . 
 And Starkweather's comments (superbly voiced by noted actor Brian Cox) about his level of sexual 
 arousal are a little over the top, in my opinion. But the whole snuff theme ends about half way 
 thru the game, and it's at this point that the hunted becomes the hunter. Once Cash escapes Starkweather's 
 maze, he is free to simply escape into the night, letting Starkweather continue with his sick business. 
 But instead, he chooses to go after his tormentor, and it is this decision that not only redeems 
 Cash, but the game as well.
  Now, Cash may be an evil man, and maybe he deserves to die by lethal injection as originally intended, 
 but somewhere along the line, he finds it within himself to risk his life, going up against overwhelming 
 odds, to bring down the REAL villain in the story... Starkweather. And that's pretty cool.
  
  Game-wise, the mechanics are fairly easy and smooth; graphics, although somewhat grainy, are 
 done so by design, to add to the gritty atmosphere of the game; and the minimalist soundtrack subtly 
 "ups the ante" on the fear factor. (I got complaints from my downstairs neighbors about the thrombing 
 heart-beat that went on late into the night... as a result I switched to a head-set, which makes 
 for a better gaming experience anyway.)
  
  Bottom line... this is definitely NOT a game for everyone. Rockstar took a big chance releasing 
 Manhunt, but if you can get past the gratuitous violence and foul scenario, you just may find a 
 legitimate moral message;
  even the seemingly irredeemable may find their own salvation by destroying a greater evil. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Edziscs
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 2, 2006 10:38 am PT
Review:  So it starts an unknown psycho movie maker kidnaps a murderer CASH, the main character and makes 
 him kill psycho murderer gangs, you will have to stay in shadows to survive cause the enemies don't 
 want to die neither. The gangs and you listen to sound to hunt (and sight of course) so you can 
 use it against them, hit the wall for the enemy to run to you and when he turns his back searching 
 for you use a plastic bag, baseball bat or the good old shotgun to kill the enemy in the most brutal 
 way you can imagine...
  In the start the enemies will carry some bats some knifes but some are weaponless, no firepower 
 so you wont have to stay in the shadow all the time because it would be really easy to kill them 
 hand-to-hand and if you get spotted with low health, you can easily run away and hide. Later enemies 
 will have shotguns, advanced shotguns, pistols and heavy pistols from this point you will stay 
 in shadow allot.
  The atmosphere, oh yeah the atmosphere, its the greatest thing about the game, its kinda not scary 
 if you move slowly and make no sound and believe me moving fast will make your heart beat faster, 
 at least after playing at least 2 hours. Scary music, psychos screaming creepy stuff, if you will 
 get spotted by psychos while you are sitting in the dark, you will be running away, desperately 
 trying to find a place to hide and you will feel like you are really chased by a psycho, it really 
 feels like you are being the main character.
  I guess some of you might want to know about the game play so its like this, since the main character 
 is a murderer and has excellent senses you will hunt mainly by your hearing. In novice mode you 
 will get a radar that will show where you hear your enemies, yet in hardcore mode you will not 
 have the radar and that is great you will understand how it is to be a murderer with excellent 
 hearing because you will hear everything with your own ears you will hear how far the enemy is, 
 you will hear if he is looking for you and you will hear if he has heard your trap and coming to 
 his doom that is you. Another nice touch is the stealth action as you will be able to hide in the 
 shadow and those stupid psychos wont even know you are there, this is no reason to run thought, 
 its always a bad thing to run in a bad guy with big gun..
  Definitely not for children or people with weak nerves..
  
  still its definitely worth buying! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cmpunmu3
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 3, 2006 9:16 am PT
Review:  I would be pleased to know the purpose of killing of your main character in the game, feels like 
 in "hitman" - or either you're a test subject or a trained hitman and someone's observing all your 
 actions, and the idea is to entertain your observer by executing the most goresome attacks on your 
 prey. Why is everyone is wearing masks? Is it because it looks cooler or it was done to protect 
 the game from the people, who would complain, that they saw a person in the game that resembled 
 them and got violently killed.
  You'll have to use a lot of tactics and weapons, depending on the area - not to be spotted by an 
 enemy - be stealthy, you also need to hide bodies.
  Horror based idea is what i liked the most - foggy places with strange sounds coming from nowhere, 
 smiling masks on the enemies is also an interesting feature, and the final boss fight: deserted 
 building with blood stains all over the place, bathtubs filled with blood - feels like torture 
 chamber and the Pig-skinned humanoid running with a chainsaw and enormous speed.. remember what 
 sounds he's making? - Shivers down the spine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaaatttt
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 28, 2006 7:45 am PT
Review:  If you want ot be a killer.... dont kill in reality ..... be a killer in a virtuality and remember 
 if you dont kill...... someone will kill you. So take a knife a crowbar and let the blood run like 
 from the river an let the enemys see a death into your eyes! If you dont do this.......... then you 
 was jus another dead body in the Carter city....... So you know what you have to do if you dont 
 may the devil help you run throw this agony world..... What can i say more JUST PLAY THIS **** 
 GOOD GAME AND BE A KILLER THAT NO ONE SEE BEFOR! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corlorde
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 21, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed this game, I really did, despite myself. I originally had this game installed on one 
 computer but could only play about half. It kept crashing on this certain point despite my best 
 efforts. I eventually built a new computer and recently gave Manhnunt another go, and I managed 
 to get through the bugs etc. Basically, you can follow a set pattern of hide and silently remove 
 throughout the entire game. The AI isnt too bright in some spots but its still fun taking down 
 the stereotypical bad guy. Whats not to love, taking down huge numbers of the people we are 
 supposed to fear? The game is highly violent though, all the more reason to play, eh.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deugar
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 15, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  I actually only heard about Manhunt about a year ago and since i didn't bother to check it up, 
 thinking it was just another ps2 game (not that i don't like the console) .
  However i stumbled across it in a store one day and thought ''Well what f**k might as well give 
 it a try''. So here is what i have to say after finishing the game:
  
  The story starts of by you being sentenced to death (kinda sucks huh?) , but after your execution 
 you wake up in some ugly cell (or something like that) where this creepy guy tells you to grab 
 an earpiece and from that point on that guy is in your head (not literally speaking of course) .
 
  It quite quickly becomes clear that this man is not just creepy but downright sick! Before you 
 know it you'll be beating up local gang members for his amusement, strangling them with plastic 
 bags or beating them to death with a bat.
  
  The trick in this game is basically run and hide. When ever you see some dude he'll run after you 
 and stop when you reach a shadow (unless of course he saw you enter that shadow in which case he'll 
 still try to kill you) . Once he turns his back and starts walking back you can execute him by walking 
 up close to him with your weapon, and hold the left or right mouse button once your character raises 
 his weapon. Depending on how long you hold the mouse button while walking behind him you can make 
 more violent executions. This might seem like boring game-play but just stick with the game, because 
 it gets better!
  Eventually you'll be getting a firearm (an ugly revolver to start with, but you'll love it none 
 the less) an this is were the game starts getting interesting again. Now the tactic is basicly 
 the same but with a bit more risk involved. When you lure out the gang members they'll be shooting 
 at you, which makes it more difficult to stay alive. But once you lure them into the shadows, shooting 
 them in the face shouldn't be to difficult, and unlike other games (like cs) they die at the first 
 shot no matter how small your gun is.
  
  The story takes you through a lot of survival situations where the creepy guy has left you with 
 no weapons to overpower his thugs and though it might seem as if it is the same, the game really 
 changes and puts the character back in control as he rages towards his revenge, which is to kill 
 the creepy guy who is later revealed to be a snuff filmer. The ending in the game could have been 
 a bit better but since the game is about building up towards the end, you'll still be hooked for 
 many hours.
  
  Overall this game is pretty intriguing and the violence in the game actually helps strengthen the 
 realistic and dark feel in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chasssa
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 1, 2006 5:00 pm PT
Review:  BLOOD BRAINS N BALLS!!!!
  
  thats right... you gotta be able to cope with all of em, cus manhunt will definatly have you gasping 
 with horror and a nut cases excitement. the story has you playing as a James Earl Cash, who has 
 jus been released from deathrow to be the star in Lionel Starweathers 'BORN AGAIN'.... blah blah 
 blah......
  frankly i completly forgot the story after i got me my first kill, aftter..... all i did was sit 
 back in amazement as James beat the living piss outa some jackass while sufficating him with a 
 plastic bag.
  
  this game truly is one of the most graphic n violent games you'l probably ever play, it will have 
 you on the edge of your seat while you slowly pace down a ally, only to get a sreaming nut case 
 charge roung the courner at you with a machete, or it will have ya screaming with evil laughter 
 while your hunting you next nervous victim and it even has you turning away cringing at one of 
 many overly brutal executions.
  
  the gamplay is supurb, its solid steath mechanics and its easy to pick up controls have you mowing 
 through victim after victim with two types of executions with each weapon, although sometimes this 
 can get a bit repetetive, it still has you gasping every time you pull it off. that and its veriety 
 of weapons and immersive terrifying atmousphere, this makes a great game that you really shouldnt 
 miss out on.
  
  sound is exellent, everything from bashing someones skull, to the cleave of a blade and the gurgles 
 and groans of victims. it also has some good voice acting to giggle at such as the unsuspecting 
 huters on your sent.
  
  graphics are quite nice. Nothing overly insane, but perfect for this games immersion and setting, 
 its not trying to blow you away with mad visuals, it keeps them at a nice pace, ive not had any 
 problems with the graphics, they look solid, and go nice with all the annimations, pc offers the 
 superior visuals.
  
  also the controls are responsive and fuction just as good as the do on the ps2.
  
  overal im 
 not gonna say this insnt for the faint hearted because....... well its a game, so no need to start 
 a protest over it :P, its really enjoyable, has a interesting story line, (capable of film standards 
 in my opinion) and it truely is a classic to the gameing world, i doubt no other will be supplyin 
 this type of violent experience so get it n play because it can offer some good moments, and it 
 may make you a serial killer ;) 
  
  definatly rockstars most infamous game
  
  and it was an honour to have manhunt as my first review.
  
  now................. wheres my 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nodham
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 22, 2006 6:12 am PT
Review:  In case the bloodied aparition on the box isn't obvious enough I'll reiterate that Manhunt is a 
 game for adults only. Whereas some games take liberties with the intensity of violence on show, 
 basically just adding extra crimson to their colourful spectacle, Manhunt's violence is dead serious 
 and almost always bordering on unwatchable. 
  If you like your games with more wallpaper and less brain matter on the walls, no amount of praise 
 is going to convince you that Manhunt is worth your time. However, look past the novelty extreme 
 gore and you will find a solid stealth thriller. 
  
  Manhunt has you playing as a convicted felon who is saved from lethal injection by a snuff film 
 producer/director. This director then places your character (James Earl Cash) into various run-down 
 areas filled with gang thugs and films Cash's attempts at survival for the entertainment of his 
 clients. The action is viewed from a Tomb Raider/GTA viewpoint and gameplay consists of sneaking 
 from cover to cover, shadow to shadow, and dispatching the thugs in various twisted ways. Once 
 you are in position behind an enemy that hasn't detected you you can perform an execution using 
 the weapon you are holding. Hold the attack button longer and your execution will be more violent 
 but you also leave yourself vulnerable to detection by a different enemy for longer. There are 
 three degrees of brutality to these executions and ironically I sometimes found the 'medium' ones 
 more horrifying than the extreme. How bad can "suffocation by plastic bag" get? How about a few 
 cringe-inducing punches to the face, or an added neck snap? No need to expand on the baseball bat 
 options - I think you get the idea.
  The sounds that accompany these executions are realistic and have that proper quality to them that 
 makes them amplify the violence onscreen. Crack, splat, thud. Basic sounds, but if you saw what 
 was happening... Likewise the voice acting is excellent, apart from the various comments your enemies 
 make you'll also have the pleasure of hearing Brian Cox as your sadistic puppetmaster.
  
  Mostly Manhunt consists of waiting in the shadows and stalking your prey methodically, killing 
 enemies one by one and sometimes dragging their bodies back into the dark with you. Despite having 
 a level's-worth of hunters after you you'll interestingly enough soon get the feeling that you 
 are in fact the hunter as you crouch in corners and wait for the moment to strike. In a way the 
 game resembles a horror movie with you playing the killer. Since all your victims are murderers 
 and rapists the violence inflicted upon them is easier to stomach. 
  Every few levels the scenery and thugs will change but the environments remain derelict, abandoned 
 and threatening. It's hard to imagine a zoo feeling sinister but Manhunt's pulls it off. Just take 
 away all the colour and add filth and murderers. Indeed, it's the levels and enemies that will 
 keep you entertained, as the action does tend to get repetitive. Each gang has their own story 
 and dress-style and all they're all suitably menacing. 
  
  Manhunt's gameplay limitations are its weak point, though. For one, while it's understandable from 
 a design point of view, the choice to allow only one weapon 'type' to be carried at a time leads 
 to some backtracking. I understand Cash doesn't have a toolbelt so carring hammers and crowbars 
 might be complicated, but I would think he could fit a plastic bag and a shard of glass into his 
 pockets... Also the game tends to focus more on firepower as the levels progress, not leaving you 
 with many places to hide and placing you against difficult odds. This wouldn't be a problem, but 
 Manhunt has unfortunately caught that disease of consoles, save points. In the easier parts it's 
 not that annoying but at the end of the game it's really more an artificial game length extender 
 than a welcome challenge. There was one area where a key I needed was guarded by a gang of 3 or 
 4 thugs inside a room. The only way into the room was through the door, which they were all staring 
 at. I had to try to keep peeking in from different angles to try to get shots off at them and would 
 frequently get killed and be forced to restart from earlier in the level. No amount of stealth 
 would help me get past it. Manhunt features an array of such areas that are unfortunately usually 
 near the end of save points, causing you to replay areas that may not have been that interesting 
 in the first place.
  Unfortunately there isn't much storyline in Manhunt. There is enough to keep you motivated but 
 certain elements are left strangely unexplained. The first few levels will also have you just transplanted 
 from setting to setting - it's a good excuse to let the designers add any area they wish, as it's 
 the director who is doing the choosing - but soon there will be a method to the madness.
  
  Manhunt has good graphics, excellent sounds and enough exciting missions to hook you. Whether you 
 consider the extreme violence a perk or a hinderance is up to your preferences but you may be missing 
 out on a challenging game if you let Manhunt pass you by. Alas you may not be the only one, as 
 Manhunt's content makes it hard to recommend to anyone but the most mature gamers. If you do take 
 the plunge, get ready for some gritty, gory thrills. Just please remember it's just a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spazania
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 19, 2006 8:38 am PT
Review:  Sadistic voice, sadistic man who makes movies of graphic violence? Yes its here, this is MANHUNT. 
 the name should say it all, you hunt men. you play a man called James Earl Cash a convict who was 
 charged with the death penelty. You don't die when you're adminintered the lethal injection ( even 
 though you have to but then there wouldn't be a MANHUNT in the first place) but it simply knocks 
 you out. Then you find your self in a cell (kind of like in SAW if any of you watched the movie) 
 with an earpiece. You communicate with the sadistic guy (Lionel Starkweather) that way.
  
  Basically what you have to do in this game is kill men in brutal yet stealthy ways. The cutscenes 
 in this game are very well made and you have to pay attention to these scenes because it will help 
 you how to finish the level, if you don't you might find your self wondering around hopeless. 
 
  
  The action is quite intense and VERY brutal; you can use an actual weapon: Automatic Rifles
  
 or you can use domestic items: Plastic Bags
  
  yes plastic bags. You suffocate them with it. There are so many brutal ways to kill your enemies 
 with one weapon. 
  
  Its like Splinter Cell (stealthiness) and Hitman (Stealthiness+intense action)
  
  What i didnt 
 like about this game is the violence. Sure i play games like FEAR, CoD2 and Battlefield 2, Star 
 wars: RC, even God of War but the violence in this game is so brutal that it not even funny, its 
 disgusting not like God of War. Also when Cash gets hit, shot, stabbed he shows no signs that hes 
 been hit; he runs walks and sprints as usual. He doesn't even limp!!
  
  Thias game is not for people who don't like tons of blood and plastic bag violence or grisly ways 
 to kill people especially with the baseball hat and nail gun. Anyway its a good thing I played 
 it at my friends house, even a sadistic person like him doesn't play the game, even though he got 
 it for free with his PS2.
  
  Anyway, just rent the game and you see how it is. Its a very graphically good game and its sound 
 isn't half bad.
  
  Written by _-=*SpAzAnIa*=-_ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobby_Milli
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 7, 2006 1:28 am PT
Review:  This game is so sick, twisted and perverted, that it's practically impossible for someone in their 
 right mind not to fall in love with it!!
  
  Dark atmosphere, abundant killing, claustrophobic settings and an extremely original storyline 
 provide for an excellent stress reliever after a hard day's work!! Anyone disagrees with me? Just 
 imagine that one of those guys that you maim brutally is your boss, and you'll feel me!
  
  Ok, jokes aside, this is an extremely revolutionary game, a brave attempt by the ever - perfect 
 Rockstar team for something completely new and innovative. The success of this brave attempt has 
 rightfully been graced with great acclaim by players worldwide. I mean, for a game to put you in 
 the shoes of a convict sentenced to death, who must kill sadistically in order to survive, and 
 for that to feel soo right, for me that's a clear indication that Manhunt is a great success.
 
  
  Its hard to think of any flaws in the game, everything is just great. The storyline is so involving 
 that you actually want to continue playing and passing certain stages which are very hard, just 
 to see what happens next. The grand finale is an absolute classic!! I read in one player review 
 that he hasnt got a sense of achievement after completing the game. Well, if spilling the guts 
 of your tormentor all over the floor until he bleeds to death does not give you a sense of righteous 
 retribution, justification and achievement, then i cannot imagine anything else that would!!
  
  Out of all the games i've played, Manhunt is perhaps the one which has managed better than 
 any other to get me comletely immersed in the setting and storyline. Its such an atmospheric game 
 in this respect!
  
  Another aspect that i really like is the sense of reality which characterises the game. This is 
 not a fiction game! It depicts a story which could well take place for real, in the modern world 
 in which we live! 
  
  Its such a great change for the main character to be a scumbag for once!
  
  Exciting, violent, 
 bloody and one of my personal favourites!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viper_najem
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 2, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  In Manhunt you start as a former death row inmate whose life is now in the hands of a sadistic 
 hollywood director wannabee whose only guilty pleasure is to film snuff videos starring... you. 
 Yes, this game doesn't contain gore, it is gore. And whether or not you find this disturbing, well, 
 that's the whole point of the game. The developers claimed that they want original horror, crime 
 horror, not plain old zombie/vampire/ghost horror. Indeed, this game will scare the hell out of 
 you, with its disturbing premise, there's no turning back here.
  
  The gameplay in Manhunt is solid and similar to other 3rd perspective games like Hitman. The basic 
 thing to do here is to exit the current area, alive and in one piece. Simple? Far from it. You 
 will have use the shadows and try to lure your hunters and kill them silently, hide away their 
 soulless corpses, and then repeat the whole process again and again. The game is a bit short, but 
 the extra levels and the hardcore difficulty squeeze out some 2 or 3 hours. The executions are 
 varied and real. The fact that you have to stalk your enemy to finish him off is addictive and 
 rewarding enough.
  
  Graphically, the game's engine is excellent. The environments are crude as reality, which adds 
 to the overall spooky atmosphere. The character models is similar to that of the GTA series, but 
 the fact that the setting is smaller allows for more complex character details.
  
  Sound is probably the best part of Manhunt. The voice acting, especially that of the director, 
 is excellent and funny at times. The hunters mumble and talk nonsense and there's practically tons 
 of speech lines in the game. The weapons are also crude and sound real.
  
  This is a game you won't want to play for a long period of time. If you do, then you should seek 
 psychological therapy now. A great game indeed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insectus
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 3, 2006 6:54 am PT
Review:  I start this review with a question of values: I think snuff films are revolting and worthy only 
 of despise and hate.
  
  That said, I was imediately drawned to this game exactly because of its thematic. You play as a 
 convict, released by a mysterious man who throws him into a part of a city covered with gang members 
 and with cameras all over the place.
  
  Soon we realise the objective. He wants to make a snuff film out of us killing the gangs in the 
 most brutal ways.
  
  This may sound a bit dull, but actually the game develops as a superb stealth action game, and 
 as the game progresses, objectives become increasingly interesting.
  
  You'll have at your desposal weapons that you pick up anywhere, from a plastic bag to a sawed off 
 shotgun. Firefights are generic, but the importance of using cover is very well depicted in the 
 game. As for the "other" weapons, here the game becomes very interesting. With these "snuff" weapons, 
 you must seneak behind an enemy and press hold the fire button. The longer you hold it, the more 
 brutal will be the execution. When you release the button, the "fatality" scene is shown as if 
 filmed from a camera on the scenery. These executions are among the most violent scenes I ever 
 saw on a game. Example: with the baseball bat, the most violent execution starts off with shocking 
 the enemy with the bat around his neck, and then, with the enemy on his knees, a violent blow to 
 the head that sends his brains flying to the nearest wall. Not for the weak stomached.
  
  It's certainly a worthwhile game, with memorable missions, and entertainly gory. And its refreshing 
 to see the snuff universe shown as a brutal criminal thing, and not some "cool groce videos" to 
 see on the net.
  
  Now go and play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 2, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  THE GAMEPLAY
  
  Raw, uncut, bloody, pure and violent to the core Manhunt is a painting of a rotting pile. Its 
 the blood dripping from a rusty metal pipe. Its the hatred of the blood-thirsty kids from all 
 over the world. Its what people really want and its now out for your PC, unless of course its 
 illegalized in your country. Lets pretend then that youre not reading this review because youre 
 thinking of getting this game. Theres no reason to pretend what the game is about though. Its 
 about raw violence. 
  
  Hours ago you were putting up a few last angry and pointless struggles, as a cleansed syringe, 
 one of the societys many public servants, had seemingly administered a lethal dose, putting you 
 into an eternal sleep for whatever anti-social behavior youve exhumed during your criminal life. 
 Yet now you awaken in a dark room disoriented, and a voice is talking to you, a voice that seems 
 to know who you are and whats going on. Its a voice that knows and controls all your ways out 
 and forces you to follow its orders, promising a quick outcome. The world outside is cold, dark, 
 filthy and filled with armed maniacs. Its like a nightmare, but youre not waking up this time. 
 And the voice... the voice wants you to do one thing: kill! 
  
  You begin your journey unarmed, and you must improvise weapons from the things you find around 
 you. Shattered glass and ropes will be your friends at first. They won't be reliable friends, as 
 they shall leave you after just one usage. As you advance through the hatred and sickness of the 
 night you will find (or pick up from your dead enemies) multi-usage weapons. Hatchets, axes, shotguns 
 and sniper rifles... Too bad you can't carry all these friends with you. The game allows only so 
 many weapons to be carried in your pockets and on your back.
  
  On his journey, our escapee James Earl Cash, will encounter interesting and diverse enemies, some 
 sane and some not at all. Most of them though, as the voice tells you, share one thing with the 
 main character: they are all scum. Under some of their masks seem to lie overfed faces of the general 
 public coming from normal homes and normal families. This you can extract from the self-directed 
 comments they make about their wives. Under other masks are the faces of gang members and complete 
 psychos. From comments all of these folks make you can also understand that they have been invited 
 to hunt you. However, the initiator of the show, Lionel Starkweather (AKA the director) , didnt 
 enlighten them on the fact that you will be doing most of the hunting. 
  
  The enemy is in their majority, and you make little chance face to face against more than one of 
 them. The only successful method is to stab them in their backs, picking them off one by one. Stealth 
 is the answer. Shadows will become your castle. The noise and the light will become your enemies. 
 The shadow-meter will show how hidden you are at any time. Running is noisy and some surfaces make 
 a lot of noise when walked over. Wait patiently till the victim closes in or throw something (like 
 bricks or cut-off heads of your ex-enemies) or hit the wall to lure enemies in, and walk up behind 
 them to give the public what they want from you. The longer you hold the mouse button, the more 
 violent the slaughter will be. The real fun starts when you get your hands on weapons like hatchets 
 and start slashing away at the enemys throat, decapitating the guy. A baseball bat, on the other 
 hand, can help you decorate a wall with fragments of a brain of your choice. Children, do not do 
 this at homeor on in a park at night. Parents, it is perhaps not the best idea to buy this game 
 for your kids. Even their violence-demanding character can smack into the brick wall that this 
 kinky experience represents. Experiencing it is somewhat like watching a beheading video on the 
 internet. Well, maybe not as graphic...
  
  The storyline is fairly interesting. Although your objectives usually consist of just getting somewhere, 
 sometimes the director throws a few interesting missions, like the saving of your family members 
 who had been taken hostage, or escorting a bum through the enemy territory. Once you complete those 
 objectives, the director usually opens the door to the next level. At the end of each scene, 
 as levels are called, you will be given a rating affected by your time and the amount of violence. 
 
  
  There are, however, a few strange leaps of logic in the games storyline. First, what is Cash doing 
 listening to this guy who wants him to go up against armed psychos? OK, at start maybe the director 
 guarantees freedom in exchange for some entertainment, but when that turns out to be a lie, when 
 the Starkweathers personal SWAT team beats the living hell out of him and brings him to a new 
 snuff-scene site over and over again, when the director kidnaps Cashs family, why does Cash keep 
 placing his own head under this guy's boot? Second, a few cut-scenes are missing. The mission about 
 escorting a female journalist to her apartment to pick up some equipment comes out of the blue. 
 It's almost like they cut out a chunk of the game. 
  
  AI is quite remarkable. It doesnt fully follow the pattern of the other stealth-based games. In 
 an average-Joe stealth game an enemy usually walks in predictable patterns and doesnt spot you 
 if youre more than 10 meters away. Manhunt takes a more realistic approach. If youre out of the 
 shadow, the enemy is able to detect you from quite far away, and even more disturbing, his patrolling 
 behavior is often very random (not always though) and therefore unpredictable. Stealth becomes 
 very difficult because of this. It grows to be all the more annoying because of the fact that you 
 can only save your game at saving-points. 
  
  AI has different states of alertness indicated by different colors of his icon on your HUDs radar. 
 Enemies become alert when spotting their dead mates (wouldn't you guess?) , hearing suspicious sounds 
 or spotting you from far. When suspicious, the enemy can be pretty stressed out and might start 
 shooting in the direction where the noise came from. Some enemies run away when they understand 
 that youre more of a match for them than they had originally anticipated. Some dont even come 
 to investigate a sound you made, commenting that they arent that stupid to be lured in. Quite 
 intelligent are these chaps, one might say. During shootouts, however, the IQ of these thugs drops, 
 as they all line up to emerge from the same corner to be shot by you. So, in the end, whether the 
 AI is a leap forward or a leap backwards is up to the player to decide. 
  
  PERFORMANCE AND BUGS
  
  Manhunt has a few bugs that are important to point out. The first one 
 relates to the collision system. There are things placed to be knocked over (either purposely or 
 accidentally) by the player like barrels. When these barrels are knocked over they do not rest, 
 and instead keep bumping around continuing to make noise. In that noise lays another problem. Those 
 of you who played GTA San Andreas mightve experienced a hardware related bug when certain sounds 
 caused the game to stutter badly. The problem would disappear when the generic sound was turned 
 off. This problem is back to haunt some of us in Manhunt and is extremely annoying in combination 
 with the dancing-barrel bug. Another small bug involves dead enemies who stood up after being hit 
 again. Also there was a collision bug when the character would walk along the wall to its edge 
 and suddenly pop out of the edge for no reason (enemies would be oblivious to the character's sudden 
 appearance) . You can usually pop him back in. 
  
  On the brighter side, Manhunt runs quite fast on low-end machines like mine and the loading times 
 are virtually non-existent. 
  
  VISUALS AND SOUND
  
  Visually Manhunt does not stand out on the market of its time, even though the PC version looks 
 somewhat better than its console counterparts. The character animations arent top notch and remind 
 the clumsy movements in the Rockstars GTA-game series. However, just like in GTA series, the graphic 
 beauty doesnt reside in the games pretty textures. Its the environment that Manhunt manages 
 to produce that catches the eye. Killing scenes are shown from different perspectives with the 
 sort of static you get on a home-made video. That works really well. In fact, the whole game is 
 seen in a similar matter. Enemies are varied in size and dressed appropriate to their messed up 
 environment. Everything looks dark, dirty and abandoned, just like it should look.
  
  Music is extremely sinister, mixed with the main characters own heartbeat and creepy sounds, it 
 creates and unforgettable atmosphere. Chopping flesh sounds realistic and so does the gargling/screaming. 
 It makes one wonder whether the people from Rockstar actually saw a few snuff movies. The voice 
 acting is the best Ive heard in years and the director deserves an Oscar for, not only for his 
 video work. The guy actually pulls off a few jokes that are funny, and we know games aren't very 
 good at trying to be funny.
  
  THE VERDICT
  
  Ill quote the game and say that To best experience Manhunt you should: turn off the lights, close 
 the drapes, lock the door and get ready to kill. That Lionel Starkweather character did his job 
 well. Manhunt makes for a good snuff movie. It might be controversial when it comes to violence, 
 but many people make the mistake of thinking that Manhunt is just a game that went too far in violence 
 to capture the consumers attention, and otherwise posses little value. Thats not true. The game 
 is interesting, original in almost every way and simply is a good game, as long as you can overlook 
 or escape some of its bugs. Just dont let the young kids play it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beefycake
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 17, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  Imagine this... you wake up... your sick to the bone.. a voice calls to you... and he tell you only 
 you can hear him and he wants a little favor.. you see a plastic bag.. and you see a guy standing 
 near the sidewalk.. does the vocei tell you to shop with him?... no.. "GO ON.. FINISH HIM!!"
  
  If this like story distrub you.. then prepare for the horrific and bloody experince of Rockstar's 
 most distrubing game called.. MANHUNT
  
  The games puts you in the criminal shoes of James Earl Cash.. A criminal sentences to death by 
 lethal injection.. only to wake up to the voice of the corrupted Snuff Director... he tell Cash he'l 
 let him live.. if he does wat ever the directors tells him.. no matter how bad it is..
  
  Unlike the other Rockstar game.. this game is 3rd person horror surival game.. which require a great 
 deal of stealth.. the whole point of the game is kill your enemies, using a killing style called 
 Execution...
  
  the game offers.. many baddies.. and gang. from the low down.. thugs.. to the professional hunters.. 
 Each with unique characteristic.. but share one thing in common.. to get you!!
  
  the games has surprisingly good graphics... a wide selection of killin weapons each of which will 
 allow you to execute your victim in a bloody matter.. the bloodier the execution is.. the more points 
 youll receive... the sound of the games is terrific and music is scary as hell!
  if you are a person with a weak stomach or prefers not to use stealty avoid this games.. but you 
 crave blood and lust for a horrorfest game.. MANHUNT IS your Game
  
  I give this game 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caliFRAGi
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 1, 2005 2:25 am PT
Review:  It's different from other stealh game. 
  MGS & Splinter Cell knock down or stun, or shot down their enemy. But ManHunt KILL the enemy with 
 sadistic move. Just like the title: "ManHunt", you're playing to hunt down your enemies. one blow 
 is enough to kill 'em.
  
  The athmosphere is pretty intense. especially on later levels. the enemies (and the last boss) 
 is really trying to hunt you down.
  
  careful! this game is trying to make you a sadistic killer. if you hold down the mouse button, 
 the longer you hold, the killing move is become more sadist (which I think it's pretty stupid) . 
 if you don't care how he kill, just 'tap' (click) and your enemy die faster. the game end faster. 
 and you can continue to play other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeTonks
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 27, 2005 2:15 pm PT
Review:  I am ashamed to say that my initial reason for buying this game was the prospect of themes so copious 
 and excessively violent that they generated controversy throughout the gaming universe. Although 
 not usually a selling point for me, nevertheless I bought this game the week it came out and was 
 punished for my shallow attitude. To be honest, I didn't find this game too violent. It wasn't 
 until I'd finished the game first time and got the urge to play through again that I realised the 
 games strengths lie not in the publicity its generated, but in the solid, atmospheric stealth/action 
 game that lies underneath. Much in the vein of that film 'The Running Man', Manhunt tracks James 
 Cash through a desolate urban jungle as a community of prestigious psychos film him murdering every 
 criminal, maniac or even cop that stand between him and his freedom. The game takes place over 
 twenty 'scenes' in which it will be up to you, Cash, to navigate your way to the end of each arena, 
 killing those hell-bent on making sure you don't get through alive. Although initially gratuitous 
 as you find yourself disemboweling, decapitating or suffocating anyone unlucky enough to cross 
 your path, the game eventually becomes more high-octane, offering the player guns to help you against 
 the increasing number of enemies.
  The story is as solid as the gameplay, and it's a fine incentive to brave the streets a second 
 time, if only for the visceral pleasure of laying your hands on the chainsaw, or dropping a fridge 
 on someone from a magnetic crane. 
  It's a hard game, no doubt; but if it's any comfort to protective parents, it prevents younger 
 players from getting very far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheRealMega
Rating: 6.9
Date: Nov 26, 2005 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Overall a good game. Does get a little irriatating when you shoot someone in the head at point 
 blank range and it barely hurts them which in turns lets them shoot you twice before you can even 
 reload one shot. Also a few area where enimies can 'see' you through walls and even down through 
 floors. In one area, the 'pain pills' (health) vanished when I returned to the room for it.. maybe 
 one of the bad guys used it, lol. there are a couple spots that can be very hard to pass. One area 
 stumped me for about 10 rounds through it and actually didn't play the game again for days - THEN 
 when I went back to give it a try, I went right through it first try, almost like the game had 
 a glitch the time before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwulith
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 5, 2005 2:03 am PT
Review:  Rockstar always delivers great games. No matter what the title is, it can almost always be a must 
 play if not a rental at the least. Manhunt is no different. A lot of people might look at it as 
 a pointless stealth game, but thats not really true. It's actually pretty compelling, for a long 
 time you will do nothing but hacking and slashing, but I gurantee that right at the end it tells 
 you everything you need to know and it really pays off.
  
  Manhunt isn't your typical stealth game. It's so violent and gory that you really have to take 
 deep breaths after seeing some of these gory in your face murders. The game has this little cam 
 that zooms in on each murder you do, all very gory and graphic. From taking a crowbar and stabbing 
 a guy in the back and then shoving down his head or taking a knife and stabbing the guy in the 
 eyes until he dies, the game never gets boring because new weapons are always introduced and some 
 amazing AI keeps the game fresh.
  
  The enemies themself are very smart as I said and your environments are all very detailed and pretty 
 sickening. The graphics are fantastic to say the least and it is really great to have such detail 
 in a game like this. Manhunt isn't particulary scary, but it does have this Silent hill feel to 
 it with grossing you out.
  
  Lets talk about the premise and story, you play as James Earl Cash, this guy who was about to be 
 sentenced to death row but you mysteriously get sent to this room and get told that you will be 
 set free after you make a few snuff films for this sadistic director who for some reason thinks 
 he can get away with this. Most of the time you will be killing gangsters who are all sick and 
 twisted in different ways, but later it turns into a shooter with little stealth. 
  
  The game is pretty easy to understand whats going on, everything is laid out easily so you can 
 see it, the interface is great and the camera is this perfect behind the character that really 
 works. It's also really easy to see when your hidden in the shadows, your body goes from grey to 
 blue and shows when your in motion or just standing there. That's why this game is the only game 
 I have ever given a 10 for gameplay. 
  
  Manhunt is also a really fun game to play, the story doesn't really take off and it leaves you 
 with some loopholes until the very end, but it is still fun to play because something new always 
 happens.
  
  This might sound weird, but the characters are all pretty funny. The gangsters you face say some 
 downright hilarious things depending on the gang and the voice acting is all around oscar winning. 
 This is an unusual game to have state of the art voice acting but it's all here. The creepy heart 
 beat that comes from James Earl Cash's body while your playing really intensifies the experience 
 and the enemy AI is the core reason why your going to want to not have them turn around because 
 you can only do your killing from behind. The AI is pretty fantastic, running and strafing, so 
 getting into fist fights isn't recommended. 
  
  The overall experience is pretty lengthy but replay value is tough to say. It's fantastic while 
 it lasts but going through it again is a hit or miss. Some people might want to do something a 
 little different since stealth can have some tough learning curve and this game is no different, 
 but many will not.
  
  Overall Manhunt is an experience that everyone should enjoy and play. It's a ton of fun, but playing 
 it over again is a hit or miss. A true landmark that shouldn't be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterles
Rating: 5.4
Date: Feb 21, 2005 1:38 am PT
Review:  i play the game all the way through. i dont know why. maybe i wanted to get my moneys worth. but 
 i did it nonetheless. 
  as i went around killing guys silently, i thought it was somewhat fun, but after sneaking up behind 
 the 50th dude, it lost its flavor. the weapons were pretty much all the same, and they all did 
 the same thing. except for the 2 ocations i got to use the sniper rifle. 
  the gratification i felt for beating a level was vastly overcome from the sheer frustration of 
 each level. the 10 were a cake walk. the last 10 were extremely hard. i played the same save point 
 on each level probally 25 times. it took extreme patience to learn the paterns of your enemy, then 
 once you got to the end, theyd do something different, and youd have to do the whole thing over 
 again. it was just too frustrating of a game. i really dont know why i played it all they way through.
 
  the graphics were ok, looked an felt like gta. the game play was ok. but the premise of the whole 
 game was lame. it was just sneak up behind dudes, and run away if youre seen, into the dark until 
 everything calms down. it gets old, and they didnt do anything to keep it fresh. the story line 
 got old after the first scene, it was too predictible.
  i would recomend that anyone finish the game. there were too many, way too many frustrating part 
 that absolutely dont give any sence of satisfaction
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 345143
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2004 11:51 am PT
Review:  This game is yet violent, and sam fisherish with much disturbing natured unscensord content.
  Though a 17 year old moron to kill his own friend out of pure stupidity while being overly obsessed 
 with the violence of this game which produces is wrong for the young audience to have their hands 
 on...
  But i must say it was something new, innovative in a gross way, and yet alot of fun.
  probably 
 one of thee best single player games i have ever played upon which envolves killing you're enemies, 
 and showing no mercy.
  
  Although i play this for it's gory atmospheric cult serial killing ways like jason voorhees, or 
 the micheal meyers or just being able to execute someone with such effects for some can't bare 
 to see.
  
  the shotgun is probably my 1st fav for being able to have 3 death animations involved blowing apart 
 the head. although you can only do this once.
  2nd would be the machete. though in it's game life it's not a heavy one so it takes alot of hacking 
 to your victims head.
  3rd would be the sniper rifle. Such realistic head shot effects Rockstar* has ever produced in 
 their titles i am dissappointed it won't be considered for the controversal game "Grand Theft Auto".
 
  
  But i must say, if you know yourself for being likely to mimic games gameplay to reality. You should 
 be shot dead, and to never have had bought a game such as this. 
  
  This game is ment for the mature who can tell the difference between reality and fantasy.
  If 
 you can't follow that this game isn' t obviously for you and you aren't good for the game and the 
 companies future.
  
  This game is overal alot of fun, new and something cool to pic up or just rent if your a rental 
 type of guy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luvsweetz
Rating: 6.1
Date: Sep 23, 2004 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Manhunt wants to be a stealth game desperately, but it falls short of other superior stealth games 
 such as the superb splinter cell and thief games. It uses an engine that detects loud sounds made 
 by the player. If you play it by killing everything insight is far better than the stealth side 
 to it; and its much more fun too. Another ire than I had with the game was that you dont a real 
 firearm (nail gun doesnt count as a firearm) until a quarter into the game. You do get tired 
 of the psychotic style of massacring people in the pre rendered video footage that shows up in 
 stealth kills. The graphics are ok by todays standard, but the grainy style is quite distracting. 
 All in all, its an enjoyable game for a day or two but after that it will bore you to death; not 
 literally though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterkaga
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 14, 2004 1:36 am PT
Review:  I bought Manhunt just to see how violent it really was. I played through the whole thing in a weekend 
 because the game was so compelling. This is the first stealth-based game that I have actually finished. 
 I have played 3/4 of both Splinter Cells, but I lost interest in the game each time. Not with Manhunt. 
 No, sir. I had to know how it would end.
  
  Graphics and gameplay will get me so far through a game, but it is the story that drives me to 
 finish it. Manhunt has one of the most viscerally engaging stories of any game, ever. The developers 
 put a nice plot twist in half way through the game that really made me want to see my way through 
 to the bitter end. The grimmest, grittiest story to be told since Se7en.
  
  Make no mistake, this is a stealth-based game, even when you get a gun in your hand. If you don't 
 like steath games at all, you won't like this. If you kind of like stealth games, but don't like 
 a lot of gore and violence, you certainly won't care for Manhunt. However, if you kind of like 
 stealth games, and getting bloody doesn't bother you, Manhunt is a cross between Splinter Cell 
 and GTA that will nauseate you while you gloat over your kill.
  
  The violence in this game is frankly shocking. M is really not a high enough rating. NC-17 is more 
 like it. I sat in slack-jawed amazement the first time I did a gruesome execution with the crowbar. 
 I could only say an awed "Dayum". Same thing the first time I got a headshot with the shotgun. 
 I watched this poor chump slump to the floor and admired the hole that was now his head and the 
 grey matter splattered in an arc behind him. Don't let the kiddies see you playing this or let 
 your wife over-hear you cackling as you go for that gruesome with the glass shard. Awkward explanations 
 would surely ensue.
  
  All in all, I think Manhunt is damn near perfect. It does what is does with style, wit, and THE 
 best villan. The voice acting is spot-on, the levels are intuitive and varied, the enemies are 
 varied and challenging without ever going into the dreaded "Yeah, right. No way I can get through 
 this without God mode". There is definite replay value here, as you can unlock "Bounus Scenes" 
 if you do well enough. So, if you are kind of a fan of stealth games (or a big fan for that matter) , 
 don't mind wading through gore you create, and enjoy a good story well-told, Manhunt is a guilty 
 treasure that will be a classic of the dark-themed gaming genre. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rickolus
Rating: 6.8
Date: Sep 8, 2004 11:17 pm PT
Review:  Manhunt's visual presentation targets fans of dark violence and macabre, but ironically the gameplay 
 may be it's major turn off. The clunky controls often feel unresponsive, which doesn't fare well 
 in the stealth genre. You'll spend much of your time collecting weapons, waiting for the right 
 moment to sneak behind your opponent, and dispatching him in one of the various gruesome ways. 
 Wash. Rinse. Repeat. 
  
  To be fair, the stylized, violent, cinematic deaths are done quite well. There are three possible 
 execution animations for each weapon, and all of them are sure to make you cringe.
  
  Unfortunately the game's appeal ends there. Another stealth game, "Splinter Cell," forces you make 
 use of different gadgets such as night vision, and a fiber optic camera, in order to progress undetected 
 in each level. These sort of smart gameplay mechanics are noticeably absent in "Manhunt" providing 
 little variation while sneaking around in the shadows.
  
  Rent it first, to see if "Manhunt" can hold your interest longer than the weekend. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yannira
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 4, 2004 9:11 pm PT
Review:  I played this game about two months ago on XBOX and really didn't think it could get much better 
 than that, being a PS2 port. Well, the PC version is far superior to the XBOX version. First of 
 all, as Gamespot mentioned, the controls are much better on PC than XBOX. Also, I was very suprised 
 at how good the graphics were. I disabled the grainy look texture by turning the Noise FX option 
 off (in the video settings section) and it looked very impressive. So, here is a game that is just 
 so unique because of the gameplay, the sound is great and the graphics are very good - plus I think 
 there is some replay value seeing as how there are now alot of cheats available. Only downfall 
 is that I have to wait til my wife and two girls go to sleep before playing it - but that's what 
 makes the game that much more enjoyable, playing it at night, in the dark. Great game Rockstar. 
 Let's see a part 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g-man
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 13, 2004 3:48 pm PT
Review:  As a FPS fan I thought the game would be good filler until more anticipated games such as Doom 
 III or Half-life 2. Having just completed an excellent game in Farcry, I was sure this would be 
 a letdown. The game does start out a bit slow and stealth isn't one of my favorite aspects of any 
 game, but as you progress thoughout the game the enemy A. I. gets much better and so does the action 
 once the weapons become available. The sound is awesome in that you can listen to the gang members, 
 cops, and other foes talking to one another (and sometimes themselves) using hilarious one liners 
 to threats to James Earl Cash. The graphics are intentionally grainy for the "B" movie that is 
 supposedly being made of your adventures. Game perspective is 3rd person and game controls are 
 simple to learn (a MUST in my opinion for a great game, nothing more boring than spending half 
 an hour configuring 300 controls!) . Gore level is rather extreme but the game is simply FUN. Missions 
 are interesting and sometimes frustrating. But the frustration comes from intelligent enemies, 
 weapon limitations, and plot line not from poor conceptions, endless searching, or simply not knowing 
 what to do next. Not one for "save points" in most games (the biggest reason for disliking consoles) 
 but they are done well in this game as they were in far cry, where it adds to the challenge of 
 the game to finish a section to a save point. Very much in contrast to games like GTA where I spent 
 way too much time replaying driving sequences for 5-10 minutes just to get back to the spot I was 
 killed last time. Overall, I found the game very enjoyable and much more engaging as the game progressed 
 as the enemy forces escalated from street thugs to special forces type hitmen. I would most definately 
 buy the sequel to this game. Just like Farcry, as the game progressed I didn't want it to end....... And 
 the price tag is right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flishkin
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 12, 2004 7:21 am PT
Review:  I bought Manhunt purely out of curiosity to see how gruesome the violence really was. It is gruesome, 
 and it is by far the most violent game Ive ever played. However, its an extremely fun game which 
 requires lots of stealth in the beginning, changing into an FPS later on. I recommend you keep 
 playing in stealth (killing hunters with your cursor in the red mode) as the game rewards you with 
 bonus material and extra levels if you kill hunters in stealth mode. Overall, I love the dark tone 
 of the game and the gritty video-editing feel to everything from opening the box to watching 
 the end sequence. Well done Rockstar! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 24, 2004 5:50 am PT
Review:  Overall, I found Manhunt to be a pretty enjoyable stealth game. It has very simple and reliable 
 mechanics, and its very easy to pick up and play. Thus, it manages to be somewhat fun by avoiding 
 a lot of the unsatisfying trial-and-error that accompanies most stealth games. The game also throws 
 in some token shooting sequences which arent as well fleshed out, but also end up being kind of 
 enjoyable as a change of pace, if nothing else.
  
  Manhunt is a great setting for a stealth game. You are a death row inmate, being hunted on a great 
 big movie set by gangters, lunatics, and other scum of the earth. All the while, a sick perverted 
 director talks into your ear and eggs you on. He is constantly badgering you to kill, kill, kill. 
 And when you do, its not a pretty sight. The game is dripping with atmosphere. This is the most 
 brilliantly atmospheric stealth game that I have played since System Shock 2. Its not really scary 
 so much as disturbing. Especially one chapter that takes place in an old mental institution.
  
  Theres basically nothing extraordinary here as far as game mechanics goes. Manhunt has a simple 
 formula that borrows heavily from other stealth games. You hide in shadows, and guards have three 
 stages of alertness: clueless, suspicious, and fully aware. The behavior of the guards is pretty 
 predictable, and the stealth routine is easy to learn. Everything works well here because of the 
 setting. The hunters make for some really good fodder. Generally, they are lazy or just screwed 
 up, which explains why they give up looking for you so soon after you alert them.
  
  The visuals for the game are not spectacular or cutting edge, but they really get the job done. 
 What the game lacks in polygon counts and high-tech eye candy, it makes up for by throwing a large 
 variety of environments and scenery at you. All of it fits in well with the dark and disturbing 
 theme of the game. Still, the areas could have used more detail. 
  
  Where this game really excels is in the sound category. Sound is crucial for a stealth game, and 
 here it is perfect. The music is dynamic. It is quiet when you are hidden, and it picks up when 
 you step out of the shadows. When somebody spots you, it picks up in intensity again. The voice 
 acting is top-notch, and there are tons and tons of great sound bites filled up with it. Some of 
 them are disturbing, while others are just funny, like the radio stations in the Grand Theft Auto 
 games. Manhunt shows the same attention to detail in the sound department that Rockstars other 
 games have shown. The guy who really steals the show is the voice actor for the main villain. The 
 raving mad, wealthy genius, Starkweather is simply one of the best villains to show up in video 
 gaming in a long, long time. 
  
  The biggest fault with this game as that it still gets repetitive about halfway through, despite 
 attempts to give you different goals every level. You find yourself repeating the same few actions 
 over and over  bang on wall, hide in shadows, wait for guard to pass by, sneak up on guard, kill 
 guard, repeat. A few the levels are too loaded with enemies to use stealth, and end up being incredibly 
 frustrating. The game also has essentially zero replay value, because of its linear nature. 
  
  Manhunt is a really good game. The excessive gore and violence enhance the experience, but 
 they arent the games only features. Dont be put off by reviews saying that the game is nothing 
 but pointless violence. There is a good game here. If you like stealth-action games, or if you 
 like Rockstars other games, then you will like Manhunt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hall0559
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 11, 2004 7:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is admittedly way too much fun.
  I mean really, Killing people in this fashion by no means should be fun. But in this game it is. 
 Evil doesnt begin to explain it.
  
  Gameplay - You play as a man exectued, well not really, who is now in a game of cat and mouse in 
 the worst way. You kill to live. 
  Controlls are good, responsive and fast, gun accuracy is a little too good but thats ok, hiding 
 in the shadows is a little flaky but still fun. AI is decent and gets progressivly harder as the 
 game goes on which is always a plus.
  
  Graphics - Great and Highly disapointing at the same time. Whilst there are plenty of weapons and 
 "executions" (the killing moves) and they are shown via gritty video clips as if they are part 
 of a murder flick (ala faces of death) The graphics in these clips are not so good, with the blood 
 spray effects being less than par, except for one with a baseball bat which some obvious "extra 
 details" went into. These Executions can be come repetitive and really leaves you wishing you had 
 some extra options. The ambience : Dark alleys, strees, dumps, dilapidated buildings are excellent 
 and very detailed.
  
  Sound - Sound is a huge plus here with the people trying to kill you either talking idly about 
 their not so faithfull girlfiend or just how much they want to kill you and get it over with. Shouts, 
 screams and scary sounding footsteps make the game feel quite real. (I hope you think thats a good 
 thing)
  
  Vaule - For me, a perfectionist, the game has a nice added vaule in the form of extra levels/secret 
 codes/pictures all based on a rating system for each level you go through, go through a level fast 
 and perform lots of nice executions and you'll get a 4 star, do it in hardcore mode and go for 
 a 5, now thats top notch.
  
  My tilt - I think the game could of been a lot better, a lot of it does begin to feel repeated, 
 some elements of play could of been much improved quite easily, the executions leave a lot to be 
 desired graphically considering the images could be pre-rendered (with or without the ingame engine) .
 
  
  All in all my score is a 7.9 good but not great by anymeans. Lets hope for a fantastic sequel. 
 Oh yeah... It'll happen.
  
  - L 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fett35
Rating: 6.1
Date: May 3, 2004 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Another poor console port to the PC. . .Being a fan of the macabre, I was hoping for a darkly entertaining 
 game. What I got was a disappointment.
  
  (Reviewed using a P4 3.0GHz, 1 GB Memory 256MB Radeon 9800, Soundblaster Extigy.)
  
  Gameplay 
 (6) :
  
  For a game that is supposed to be over the top and creepy, this game is unfortunately boring. There 
 is not enough going on at any one time to keep the player interested. The entire plot is to wander 
 around until you stumble into the next batch of enemies and then dispatch them. This is remarkably 
 easy. The AI is incredibly stupid and poses no real challenge. As for the shock value, other games, 
 notably Soldier of Fortune, did over-the-top gore much more convincingly. This isnt horror as 
 much as it is schlock. The separate camera that flashes to the death animations is jarring and 
 distracting. There isnt much to be found here that wasnt done better somewhere else. In fact, 
 the game feels like a watered-down bland-looking rehash of GTA3.
  
  The pace is so incredibly slow that the game is more tedious than anything else.
  
  Graphics 
 (6) :
  
  The entire game is framed in washed-out shades of grey. The game has a low-res grainy look, possibly 
 for effect. This actually makes the game look worse than anything in the last several years. The 
 models are adequate, but the animations are jerky in their transitions. This leads to a paradox. 
 The developers wanted to make the game immersive and atmospheric, as evidenced by the grainy set 
 pieces, but the herky-jerky physics and transitions of the character models prevent the player 
 from truly being immersed. The rats look dumb, and the vegetation looks lifted from models of 2001s 
 Operation Flashpoint. 
  
  If the Manhunt graphics are superior on the PC than the playstation, Id hate to see the console 
 version.
  
  Sound (7) :
  
  The sounds are pedestrian but requisitely sickening enough . . . nothing notable.
  
  Value 
 (6) :
  
  Easily three games I have bought recently leave this game in the dust, at a similar price: UT2004, 
 Far Cry, and City of Heroes ($10 more) . These games leave Manhunt in the dust, making it look 
 like some past-generation rubbish. 
  
  Tilt (6) :
  
  Not a complete disaster, but easily the most boring, pointless game I have played in quite a while. 
 Even being a fan of the genre doesnt allow me to recommend this mundane game. This is supposed 
 to put Rockstar North back on the map? I dont think so.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: desidus
Rating: 3.1
Date: May 2, 2004 7:34 am PT
Review:  This game was a complete waste of money. It's boring as hell.
  
  It uses a version of the engine used to make Grand Theft Auto III and Vice City. This is not only 
 for the graphics, but the gameplay as well. Aside from a few editions, it feels and plays identically 
 to walking around on foot in GTA - that is, it's pretty damned lousy. If you want a fighting game, 
 get a console. If you want a stealth game, play just about any FPS that's been released in the 
 past few years. If you want a shooter.. again, just about any FPS. This one fails in just about 
 every way.
  
  I can't get over how *boring* it is.. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
