-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Marc Ecko's Getting Up: Contents Under Pressure
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/marceckosgettingup/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great storyline with interesting character development.
 Quality dialogue and voice acting.
 Amazing soundtrack.
 Really strong gameplay.
 Great-looking graffiti.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 A few minor audiovisual glitches.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 14, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 7.1, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 895 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Double Helix Games
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Feb 14, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Getting Up builds a cohesive and entertaining world without sacrificing gameplay, resulting in a 
 really great overall package. 

  Getting Up is a reference to getting your name up on the wall, not necessarily climbing up to huge 
 heights to do so. But in Marc Ecko's new graffiti-laced action game, Getting Up: Contents Under 
 Pressure, you'll have plenty of chances to do both. As a mixture of third-person fighting, Prince 
 of Persia-like acrobatics, and frequent stops to get your name up on various surfaces around the 
 near-future city of New Radius, there's a good deal of variety to the action in the game. But Getting 
 Up has more to offer than just exciting gameplay. The story, dialogue, soundtrack, and look of 
 the game all contribute a great deal to the flavor and authenticity of the package. The end result 
 is an interesting and often-exciting adventure that should be appealing to most action-game fans, 
 but will probably hold extra appeal if you're at all interested in graffiti and the culture surrounding 
 it.  

          It all starts with a quest for underground fame, but by the time you're finished, Trane 
 will be more famous (and more notorious) than he could have ever imagined.     

  The game puts you in the role of a writer named Trane. We mean writer in the "likes to write his 
 name on walls with markers, stickers, and paint" sense. The game opens with Trane hanging off the 
 side of some sort of flying ship and wondering how, exactly, he got himself into this predicament. 
 The rest of the game is, for the most part, one big flashback. But never fear -- you'll eventually 
 deduce how, exactly, Trane got himself into that mess. What starts out as a simple coming-of-age, 
  sort of tale eventually goes into a completely different 
 direction. When you start out, you'll be motivated to strike back against the Vandals of New Radius, 
 or VaNR. But by the end of the game, you'll have taken things to that proverbial "other level," 
 where you'll be lashing out at the government from behind a paint roller. The game essentially 
 becomes  Turk 182  at some point.  

  New Radius is, in effect, a retro-futuristic take on New York City. If you've followed graffiti 
 culture at all (or if you watch the interesting 30-minute documentary on the topic that comes with 
 the limited-edition version of the game) , you'll know about things like New York's silver, graff-proof 
 clean trains, which were easily buffed at the station and made sure that any graffiti applied lasted 
 for only a day. These same trains get rolled out into New Radius as part of the mayor's efforts 
 to clean up the city. But while you'll notice some elements of old New York in there, New Radius 
 is really a near-futuristic setting. The mayor enforces the streets with the help of jack-booted 
 armored troops known as the CCK. In addition to these elite orange-and-silver guards, you'll also 
 encounter lesser resistance from the Vandal Squad, regular cops, and, of course, writers from rival 
 gangs. Overall, the setting and the storyline provide a great deal of atmosphere to the game, and 
 authentic-sounding dialogue further helps things along.  

  That dialogue is presented by a wide array of actors and actresses, as well as a few rappers. Talib 
 Kweli provides the voice of Trane, and 3rd Bass' MC Serch gives Trane the gas face in his role 
 as your graffiti rival, Gabe. You'll also hear P. "Leave off the P." Diddy, Adam "Still the best 
 Batman" West, Charlie Murphy, Giovanni Ribisi, and more. With few exceptions, the voice work sounds 
 great, and their work brings some real weight to the proceedings.  

  The gameplay in Getting Up is usually structured like this: You get into a new area, and there 
 are one or more primary targets that you have to get to and paint. There are also plenty of secondary 
 surfaces that you can paint on to earn additional rep points, which figure into the game's unlockables. 
 Finally, there are also freeform challenges that ask you to, for example, use a marker tag 12 times 
 on one roll-up door before time expires. To help find all of these spots, you can go into an intuition 
 view mode that puts large Xs on your targets for a few seconds. Additional (and licensed) icons 
 appear in the levels that let you unlock additional songs, and you'll also be able to snap photos 
 of tags left behind by legends. Some of those legends even turn up in the game, though they're 
 really only there to quickly advance the story -- you don't have much actual interaction with them. 

          Talib Kweli does a great job as the voice of Trane.     

  Actually painting in Getting Up is a pretty easy process that doesn't take a whole lot of skill. 
 When you get near a surface that's part of an objective, an outline of your tag or piece will appear. 
 You can change the size of it or cycle between a few different options, but then you hold down 
 the paint button and go to work. You need to move your arm around to paint, and if you remain in 
 one spot for too long, you'll cause drips. In addition, you're trying to beat a clock. If you cause 
 drips, fail to beat the timer, or don't make your piece big enough, you won't earn the maximum 
 amount of rep for that spot. Since some of the unlockables you get with rep points include increased 
 damage with weapons and a few other handy new fighting moves, it's in your best interest to go 
 as big and as quickly as you possibly can -- while still watching out for drips, of course. At the 
 start of the game, painting takes a fair amount of time. But right around the part of the game 
 where you'll probably start to feel that it's tedious, you unlock the ability to paint much faster. 
 There's an increased danger of drips when painting in fast mode, but it's still not very difficult. 
     

   

  While there's an element of stealth involved in Getting Up, there's still plenty of face-to-face, 
 hand-to-hand combat to get through. If you're quiet upon entering an area, you can sneak up behind 
 a guard, opposing writer, or other enemy and clock them over the head with a can of paint for a 
 stealth kill. But once spotted, you'll use punches and kicks to get the job done. The fighting 
 system starts out very simple, but over time, you'll earn new moves that make it more interesting 
 and make you more powerful. Because the enemies also grow in power over time, the combat stays 
 challenging -- though never really superdifficult. Once you've figured out the ins and outs of beating 
 up cops, you should be able to take on three or four of the CCK's silver guard without a whole 
 lot of trouble. But you'll usually get into situations like that only if you aren't careful with 
 the stealth.  

          The soundtrack has a number of great songs on it, and they're tied to the action pretty 
 well.     

  The third element of Getting Up's gameplay is climbing and the occasional acrobatic maneuver. While 
 you won't be running along walls or anything insane like that, the game does have a sort of Prince 
 of Persia-like feel to it. Usually, figuring out how to get up to a high spot is where the game 
 gets a little challenging, but you're rarely left wondering what to do next. You can climb up drain 
 pipes, jump from a hanging position, wall jump, shimmy sideways along ledges, and basically perform 
 the sorts of climbing and hanging moves you'd expect from, say, a Tomb Raider game. The game's 
 controls are loose and forgiving. This means that if you see a pole that you want to jump to and 
 grab, chances are that you not only  can  do it, but you'll also probably get it on your first 
 try. In a couple of spots, you'll even get to rappel down huge walls and swing back and forth. 
 All of the different gameplay elements merge really well and give you a real sense of variety across 
 its approximately 13-15-hour story. As far as replay value goes, there isn't much reason to go 
 back through and get maximum reputation in each level, as you'll clear out the unlocks list pretty 
 easily as long as you're quick with the paint and hit most of the secondary spots. One of those 
 unlocks is a two-player-only "beat down arena" mode, but this fighting mode doesn't really add 
 a lot.  

  This game is best played with a gamepad. While the PC version does have keyboard and mouse support, 
 you're doing so many different things in the game that it's really not optimal to use them. If 
 you have a wired Xbox 360 controller, the game detects it as such and autoconfigures itself to 
 work with the controller just fine. The PC version of the game is graphically on par with the Xbox 
 version for the most part, though it also comes with much longer load times than either of the 
 console games, for some reason.  

  In addition to the great voice and solid script, the rest of the audio in Getting Up is terrific. 
 The sounds of tagging, whether it's the sound of an aerosol can being shaken or a marker squeaking 
 as you hit the wall, sounds just right. Combat has an appropriately bass-heavy sound to it that 
 helps make the attacks give off the impression that they hurt. And the soundtrack is easily one 
 of the best licensed-game soundtracks ever put together, not only with its selections, but also 
 with how the songs are used. Getting Up has been scored like a movie, with different bits of music 
 tied to different portions of the game. A lot of the incidental music is done by the still-somehow-underground 
 producer, RJD2. But there's a lot of stuff with lyrics here, too, including standout tracks from 
 Kanye West-protg Rhymefest, and a track that teams Talib Kweli up with hip-hop legend Rakim. 
 System of a Down's Serj Tankian contributes a hectic, hyper remix of Notorious B. I. G.'s classic 
 "Who Shot Ya," and Pharoahe Monch also turns in a track that fits with the action -- including some 
 of the game's climactic moments -- very well. There are a lot of other songs on the soundtrack that 
 don't actually appear in the game, but show up on the menus. As if to show that, yes, they did 
 their homework, Grand Wizard Theodore's "Subway Theme," which some may remember from the classic 
 graffiti-related film  Wild Style , is among those songs. While not all of these songs appear on 
 the soundtrack CD that comes with the limited-edition version of the game, enough of them do to 
 make it worth your while (and the extra $10) . Really, the only bad thing we noticed about the audio 
 is that it sometimes cut off a little bit during in-game cutscenes, and some phrases from the standard 
 enemies get repeated a little too often.  

          While you'll start out just causing a local ruckus and brawling with a rival crew, by the 
 end you'll be fighting city hall... and winning.     

  Getting Up has a unique and effective visual style to it that gets across the look of urban decay 
 extremely well while still doing justice to the enemy designs, especially that of the CCK troops. 
 Trane changes his look a little bit as you proceed through the game, which is pretty cool. The 
 game handles its large environments well, though you'll notice a few spots here and there where 
 the usually-smooth frame rate takes a dip. Also, the graffiti in the game really looks great. As 
 you go along, you'll frequently unlock new murals, wild styles, wheat pastes, posters, tags, and 
 more, so there's always something new to put up. Unfortunately, you'll occasionally see the graffiti 
 decals shimmer in and out of the backdrop, and in the Xbox version we saw a spot or two where the 
 graffiti seemed to be floating an inch or two above the train, instead of actually looking like 
 it was painted  on  the train. As a whole, though, the game's visuals look great.  

  It's easy to look at a game that has a non-gamemaking fashion designer's name right in the title 
 and assume that it's going to be some sort of flashy, style-over-substance licensed product, but 
 Atari, The Collective, and Ecko have effectively teamed up here and put together a game that has 
 plenty of flashy style, but is a quality game underneath all that flash. If you happen to be at 
 least slightly interested in graffiti, you'll get a lot out of the game. If you aren't, you'll 
 probably still be able to appreciate a lot of what the game does, and you just might learn a little 
 something along the way.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (39 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MichaelMorbid
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 1, 2008 9:22 pm PT
Review:  as you can see, we haven't played this game all that much. we played a few levels worth and just 
 sort of lost interest.
  
  graphics are alright. no worse than GTA III, not all that polished compared to the stuff coming 
 out today. GTA had an excuse for not looking that great, it was massive. this game isn't massive. 
 we like graffiti, but this game is an eyesore.
  
  music is alright. hip hop isn't our thing, but the quality is just fine as is the voice acting.
 
  
  controls are a little tricky for the PC, this game was noticeably intended for console.
  
  the gameplay tries to be varied for a linear game. couple different things. the fighting is 
 alright, standard beat'em up style. can't complain about that. the acrobatic stuff is a little 
 tedious, leaping around. eh... it's what one would expect out of tomb raider, that ledge hugging 
 shimmy stuff.
  
  though the heart and soul of the gameplay depends on tagging... and that gets old real quick. rocking 
 the directional keys back and forth as tran sprays his way from one level to the next isn't much 
 fun. it's not an optional thing either, you have to spray junk or you don't continue on to the 
 next map.
  
  been reading that this game gets compared to the GTA series, we guess that'd be accurate thematically. 
 in terms of gameplay, this is no tony hawk gta sandbox, this is pretty clear cut liner "yo homeboy, 
 spray four tags on this wall to earn +15 rep points" kinda gameplay. it's closer to manhunt in 
 terms of freedom... and if one has played manhunt one knows there isn't *that* much freedom. at 
 least in manhunt one was committing murder, not playing coloring book with the side of a building.
 
  
  the tag mechanic is just too tedious to be fun and too persistent to ignore. it isn't challenging, 
 but it slows down the pace of the game to a crawl.
  
  the story seems mildly interesting, but all the real graffiti artists endorsing it seems lame. 
 love all that anti-corporate, politically & socially ironic propaganda, but these artists have 
 their own clothing lines now... they represent corporations. pretty... goofy...
  
  guess we'll have to wait for a game that represents the flip side, where you get to play as the 
 totalitarian system of oppression. that's got gameplay potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrick00746
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 23, 2008 12:54 am PT
Review:  To others art is a crime, but for trane is vandalism is an art................ this graffiti style 
 its looks real to me and also so much fun doing  
 also you got style on you're graffiti you also have style for fighting some other crew or betting 
 anti-vandalism task force or even cops..................... also the one and the game could graffiti 
 legends they work so nice and  and also some area that you 
 need to go from down here to the top.............. write you're word of art so fantastic cause 
 sometimes you need to go there from here over there or what ever to go to you're target site.....................
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gauravfox
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 12:26 am PT
Review:  Marc Ecko's Getting Up: is one hell of a game... i mean this is one game u dont wanna miss ! a lotta 
 people say that this is similar to GTA series... NO... this is soo totally different from GTA. Lets 
 start with Gameplay, the story is about a dude named 'Trane', who is out to make a name for himself 
 ,when he gets to know about his father's Murder, this game gets you down on the streets of the city 
 pretty well. The challenges offered by the opposition are quite tough.... The story line is pretty 
 Neat... keeps you goin... and the Music is just amazing, each n every track in the game is brilliant. the 
 SFX are cool too. The stunts and kicks are Good.... The learning curves dont need much time, the Graphics 
 are awesome..... real Good..! Street Art / Graphics are something to look out for... if you'r a Graphics 
 fan... you are gonna love this one..! this is the type of a game u will never get bored of.... apart 
 from a few twitches with the camera movement.... everythin else is perfect... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAgmoore
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 19, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  The opening scenes gave me goosebumps: the artistic production ( graphics / script / soundtrack 
 ) seemed on par with an epic Hollywood movie and I *love* all forms of art.
  
  It was all down-hill from there.
  
  I get the impression that after lacklustre sales on console 
 formats, someone in marketing came up with the idea,
  
  "Hey! Let's put it in a box and sell it to PC users?"
  
  Marc Ecko is an American fashion designer 
 who teamed up with Atari. I could see from the artistic production value that this game was meant 
 to be very visionary but it's unfortunate that the coders could not keep up with the vision.
  
  The game should have been designed on a PC and then ported to consoles and with an innovative 
 studio like Relic - not some defunct, early 80's gaming company like Atari.
  
  At first I thought that the jerky graphics were meant to be part of the game until, after installing 
 the latest NVIDIA graphics drivers and looking for Getting Up patches ( and finding none ) I noticed 
 that the clouds in the skyline would stop moving temporarily. It seemed like the game was running 
 too fast - the game seemed out of synchronisation.
  
  You need to purchase a 3-button mouse. Whenever I would use the Mouse-3 button ( to graffiti ) , 
 the graphics would start having epileptic fits ( it seemed like I was seeing hundreds of different 
 viewpoints, including parts of walls and the sun followed by blackness! The only thing that I can 
 compare it to is Christopher Walken, in the movie "The Dead Zone" - when he see's into the future 
 LOL ) .
  
  I spent a lot of time configuring a Saitek P3000 PC game controller - remapping the keyboard keys 
 to the controller because I heard that somebody, in another Gamespot review, plugged an Xbox controller 
 into their PC via USB - which solved their graphical problems. Unfortunately configuring the PC 
 game controller did not work for me and I don't have access to an XBOX.
  
  You don't get to design art in the game, basically you wave your hand over sections of a ghost 
 tag and the art is magically filled in.
  
  On the box, the marketing blurb fools you into thinking that you are in a game engine that let's 
 you explore the map which is not true, there is a specific, scripted path that you are forced to 
 take. I think that Wolfenstein 3-d released in 1992 on the PC has a more advanced graphics engine, 
 so the Getting Up engine is a joke quite frankly.
  
  The fighting just seemed like a lot of random button-mashing.
  
  There was a point early on 
 in the game that I could not get past ( basically still in the tutorial ) - I got jumped by two 
 guys but I was trying to fight the gaming engine + the two guys ( the engine won and the two guys 
 finished me off ) .
  
  I would advise you to read critic reviews here on Gamespot and do a search on Wikipedia for "Getting 
 Up Contents Under Pressure".
  
  I'd love to know why the Gamespot PC review is the same, word-for-word as the Playstation review?
 
  
  I did wonder why the prices for the PC version of the game dropped like a rock in my local, Canadian 
 store - it's because this game plays like a rock!
  
  I want the $10 dollars Canadian that I paid for the game refunded! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herzalot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  gameplay:10 the gameplay is awesome. this gameplay doesnt seen in any games. the acrobatics and graffitti 
 in the high places are very thrill. controls cant be changed. but they are good too. i cant take any 
 weaknesses.
  
  graphic:7 graphics are little bad. but little! the graphics cant be changed very obviosly. but of 
 course it doesnt make you pain!
  
  musics and sounds:9 great! an i-pod lot of hip hop musics. for a game it is very surprise. sounds 
 are good. excapt some of them.
  
  value:8/5 a great game. but if we going to get rough the stealth in this game is very useless. and 
 the sound of the characters are great but its look like they cast from a radio. but all of this 
 dont make the game junky! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tobiasr47
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so like I said, it has it flaws. Here we go:
  1. Camera. It's not cool to have to make a jump between two points 20 meters up when you can't 
 see where you're going! It's not cool fighting an enemy off screen! Well, the usual camera issues. 
 You know 'em, right?
  2. Long loading times. It takes forever to load a new level - which sucks, but I guess I can understand 
 that. But... it also takes forever to reload when you want to continue some level you just died 
 in. Why?
  3. Artificial not-so intelligence. The CCK -the boys in orange you'll be fighting- is not the sharpest 
 tool in the shed, and they're not very creative in their one liners either. (then again, they ain't 
 complete morons either, and some of them are real though guys - you'll won't mind them loosing 
 you)
  4. Non-configurable button layout. Better train your WASD-co&ouml; rdination, because that's it. 
 No numpad, no arrow keys. At least, if you're on PC.
  5. Subtitles. Trane and company are sometimes a little hard to understand for non-English/US gamers 
 as yours truly. And the subtitles are not quite in sync. At all.
  6. Advertising. I get a little itchy if I see Nokia all over the place. Might be me.
  
  And 
 yet I loved this game. It has just the right mix of fighting, sneaking and tagging. It looks great. 
 It plays great. It has the best sound track I know. Trane's graffiti is very cool, the city of 
 New Radius looks great, the characters look very good. And that's what really matters in my book. 
 This game could have been even better, yeah, but it has everything it needs to drag you in and 
 make you come back for more. I think that more than outweighs the above! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 15, 2007 11:08 pm PT
Review:  Story: You play as Trane on your path to Get Up in the urban world.
  
  Graphics: Not bad, plays on the whole art look
  
  Audio: Awesome iPod songs.
  
  Missions: 
 Get your name in people's mouth by spreading your name.
  
  Controls: Can't remap but they work fine.
  
  Features: Fighting, Platforming, Grafittiing.
 
  
  A. I.: Not the great but it'll do.
  
  Loading Times: A little too long.
  
  Multiplayer: None.
  
  Requirements: Low.
  
  Weapons: Fights, Paint, Your Mind, Random Paint 
 Cans.
  
  The Good: A different type of game.
  
  The Bad: Too different for some.
  
  The Ugly: The sales of this game, didn't do that well.
  
  Replay Ability: Low.
  
  The Bottom 
 Line: If you like music, grafitti and are looking for a lost gem, Mark Ecko's Getting Up is for 
 you my friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yochoo
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 12, 2007 7:25 am PT
Review:  Well , well ,well , we got here one of the best games ever released , belive me.
  It's veeerryy good! Let's get to Business!!!
  GAMEPLAY : Cool gameplay , you can tag graffitti 
 , draw with markers , put posters on walls, you can't do one thing ... ; ( ( : Tag your Custom Graffitti.
 
  STORYLINE: WICKED STORY!!! but the line is a little sloppy.
  GRAPHICS: GOOD GRAPHICS , BUT , YOU KNOW... YOU CAN'T SE ONLY THE GOOD SIDE OF THINGS :d
  SOUND 
 : NOT TOO BAD , BUT I'VE WANTED SOMETHING DIFFERENT, NOT THE GTA : SAN ANDREAS's COPYED SOUND!!!
 
  THE CONCLUSION: WORTH PLAYN IT , WORTH BUYN IT , WORTH WAITING FOR PART II. I'ts your decision!!! 
 I'ts your decision!!! I'ts your decision!!! I'ts your decision!!! I'ts your decision!!! I'ts your 
 decision!!! I'ts your decision!!! I'ts your decision!!! I'ts your decision!!! I'ts your decision!!! 
 I'ts your decision!!! I'ts your decision!!! I'ts your decision!!! I'ts your decision!!! I'ts your 
 decision!!! I'ts your decision!!! I'ts your decision!!! I'ts your decision!!! I'ts your decision!!! 
 I'ts your decision!!! I'ts your decision!!! I'ts your decision!!! I'ts your decision!!! I'ts your 
 decision!!! I'ts your decision!!! I'ts your decision!!! I'ts your decision!!! I'ts your decision!!! 
 I'ts your decision!!! I'ts your decision!!! I'ts your decision!!! I'ts your decision!!! I'ts your 
 decision!!! I'ts your decision!!! I'ts your decision!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JCSID
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 23, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  I found this game quite similar to Total Overdose when we compare the character's moves! It has 
 a great sense of freedom and really nice graphics... I just think gameplay should be a little more 
 effective and easy to catch ... Based on other gaming experiences like GTA or the above quoted 
 Total Overdose, I think Getting Up has still some main goals to achieve, like an even better story 
 line, more active NPC's and definitely a more immersive ambiance (sound) . In spite of these not 
 so nice thinks, i think this game has a lot of potential and is a great one to spend your time 
 playing! My overall opinion... Absolutely worth playing!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GunslingerMan
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 27, 2006 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Who would have thought that there would ever be a good graffiti game, but leave it to Marc Ecko's 
 to change that . Getting up is a suprisenly good game that shouldn't have been good I mean lets 
 admit it Grafiti and games don't excactly go well together, but the guys as collective really made 
 it happen . You play as Trane a graffiti artist or writer persay who just loves to do what he does 
 . The basic plot of the game is that you Trane want to be a graffiti legend . While the plot isn't 
 very strong, it's original which is what counts . Early into the game you will start with what 
 seems a tutorial . You fight some guy and the game will tell you what you got to do and such . 
 If you got it for the pc you will immediately notice that the game is tougher to play that on consoles 
 due to the fact that keyboard isn't good for these types of games . Even so The game plays out 
 good spraying a stickering walls is fun, although the combat does get repetitive after awhile . 
 Graphically Getting Up looks great on the ps2, but due to pc standards it looks bad at best . Textures, 
 character models and the overall game just doesn't compare to alot of pc titles, although it does 
 feuture a nice artistic view to the game that does save it aswell as big locals, and an excellent 
 presentation to it . The biggest thing Getting up has going for it is it's audio . The voice acting 
 is really top notch . Lets not even begin with the soundtrack the perfect mix is urban themed tracks 
 is enough to bring you into the experience of this game . I really couldn't find a flaw in the 
 audio in this game, I just had a blast singing along with the soundtrack, and an enjoyable time 
 listening to the characters talking .
  
  Getting up can be finished rather quick . It took me 7 hours to finish it, with no multi-player 
 come back to the game just is hard to recommend for more than a rental . Overall : It's a great 
 mix of alot of things, normally games like these should fail to hit the mark, but Getting up reaches 
 it . The pc version of this game is basically the same as the consoles, but your typical pc gamer 
 has seen way better graphics than this . Bottom line, rent . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Codelyoko4
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2006 5:39 am PT
Review:  Where to start...?
  
  The audio, is superb, music ranging from Jane's Addiction to Fort Minor, make this game's soundtrack 
 superb, for any rap fan at least.
  
  The graphics impressed me, they looked great, even on the PS2- and that's saying something.
  
 
  I've played all the versions- and even though the PS2 version is very buggy, I've enjoyed them 
 all- been pulled into the games story, and I hope this game comes out with a sequel.
  
  The controls are fluid, and responsive, compared to what everyone says, I've had NO problem fighting 
 more than two or more opponents at once, and its FUN, something that most games these days cant 
 compare to.
  
  The story, is actually original, and hasn't been done before, though the way the story is set up 
 does make it seem a bit lame.
  
  Coltrane Crowley, (aka Trane ) wants to be a graffiti artist, and leaves his only remaining relative's 
 home to do so.
  
  As Trane is getting his name up, he runs across a group of thugs, who take all of his paint and 
 beat him down- and at that, Trane is out to get revenge against them, and it unfolds into a giant, 
 immersive story.
  
  There are not very many unlockables, and once the game is over you really have no incentive to 
 want to go back and play through it for anything, but you'll have a great time playing this game 
 while it lasts.
  
  The spraying system is simply easy as well, all you need to do is walk up to a wall that has a 
 tag on it, and switch through options until you find the one you like, and to spray, you hold down 
 a button, and aim the control stick/mouse to aim the spraypaint in your desired direction, like 
 I said, its fun, and thankfully, thats good due to the fact you will be tagging a LOT of times 
 throughout the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xize
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 29, 2006 7:08 am PT
Review:  a realy good game because i love arts whith graffitty but finely there is a good game (better than 
 jsrf) . its a realy good gameplay only the storie line i dont understand realy but as you know how 
 to play the game its a realy good game the sound to only some bad points are they have helped you 
 with icons what you must do but i tried it nohting works them i see a symbol with E button then 
 i push it and not working i must do a button combo to let it works that a little bit bad explained 
 in the game but its a good game good job! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sumanrbr
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 1, 2006 7:39 am PT
Review:  The hip hop culture includes 4 main elements. These are rapping, DJing, b-boying (breakdancing) 
 and graffiti. The popularity of hip hop has exposed us to rap and DJ music, and the 80s educated 
 us with great movies like Breakin' and the award winning Breakin' 2 Electric Boogaloo. I'm sure 
 it won an award for something. Graffiti, on the other hand, hasn't received much exposure other 
 than the fact that you'll find it in any urban area. Marc Ecko's Getting Up: Contents Under Pressure 
 looks to correct that. To start the history lesson, our main character Trane is leaving his Grandma's 
 apartment, and is a toy graffiti artist. He has to get up by doing some tags, throw-ups and stickers. 
 Getting up is doing enough graffiti to get recognized. To do this, you are led to some popular 
 areas like a pool yard or an art school where you write over other graffiti. This upsets the other 
 writers, in this case the VANR gang. This is where the fighting starts, as you fight with other 
 gangs, police officers, and even the CCK militia. A good paced linear story then progresses through 
 the urban city of New Radius where you experience the platform side of the game. You have two lofty 
 goals of becoming the All City King for your graffiti, and exposing the corrupt government run 
 by Mayor Sung.
  
  
  The game opens with some basic graffiti. The control for the graffiti is nicely done considering 
 the controller. You use your intuition, by pressing L2, to highlight the areas of the level that 
 you need to tag. Once you've found the spot, you move the spray can around with the analog stick 
 until the graffiti outline is filled. You have to be careful not to get drips, and you're up against 
 the clock. Doing graffiti will earn you Rep points, and you use Rep points to unlock more graffiti 
 and other items. The game does a great job of feeding you new graffiti. Just about when you are 
 getting bored, because of the slower pace of spray painting, you are given a higher pressure spray 
 can to speed up the process. Also, you'll want to keep playing to see how wild and colorful the 
 graffiti becomes.
  
  
  You'll do plenty of fighting, climbing, and even some sneaking throughout your progress of Getting 
 Up. The platform portion of the game is done very well, with only a couple camera issues. You can 
 easily climb pipes, grab and shimmy along ledges, all in an effort to get to a higher area where 
 your artwork can be appreciated by a greater audience. Where the game falters a bit is during the 
 fighting. You need to fight through gang members and the authorities at every stage of the game. 
 Although there is a lot of variety in the ability to grapple, pick up objects, and learn new moves, 
 the sluggish controls make for some frustration and lots of button smashing. Sometimes you'll dispatch 
 a few people quickly, other times you'll have a hard time getting a couple hits in. You even notice 
 a similar delay in the menu screens. Hopefully this will prevent you from finding the Beat Down 
 two player fighting game which appears to be an afterthought. The graphic quality of the intro 
 movie, and menu screens are very polished. The subway station menu screens are very cool. While 
 loading a game, and picking a level, you feel like you're entering the subway and riding to your 
 destination. The in-game graphics and layout of the city do a good job of immersing you in the 
 urban experience. The textures of the graffiti on the wall are decent. This game would benefit 
 from the high texture quality of the next generation game systems, but looks great on the current 
 generation.
  
  The soundtrack and voice acting of Marc Ecko's Getting Up are both as good if not better than any 
 game out there. Rapper Talib Kweli does the voice for Trane. Talib is popular in underground hip-hop, 
 and is starting to see some mainstream success. He was in Dave Chappelle's Block Party, and has 
 collaborated with Mos Def. Other hip hop names worth mentioning are; Notorious B. I. G, Eric B and 
 Rakim, Sean Diddy Combs, and Mobb Deep. Jane's Addiction is thrown in for good measure. They even 
 include an iPod in the game menu so that you can listen to all the good music. The sounds in the 
 game offer a good urban atmosphere, and the bass filled hits make the punches sound like they hurt. 
 Know your history is the first bit of knowledge that is given to you in the game by the real life 
 graffiti legend Futura. Other graffiti legends include Cope2, Shepard Fairley, Seen, T-kid, and 
 more. They sign your black book where you keep all of your graffiti ideas. This game succeeded 
 in exposing the lesser known culture of graffiti. In fact, it does it so well that the game is 
 banned in Australia. When I see a train rolling through town, I now notice the different tags, 
 throw-ups and pieces of graffiti. The ironic thing about this game is that graffiti is about expression, 
 and this game doesn't allow you to customize anything. It still has a good story with great voice 
 acting, which will keep you entertained for about 15 hours. Gameplay: 8.7
  The act of spray painting your piece, and the variety of stencils, tags and posters keep the graffiti 
 fun. The platform element is also well done. However, unresponsive controls during fighting could 
 be improved. Graphics: 9.2
  You start with a nice looking subway station for the game menu. Then the graffiti and environments 
 get better as the story progresses.
  
  Sound: 8.2
  The excellent soundtrack, good voice acting, and urban atmosphere make the hip hop culture come 
 alive.
  
  Difficulty: Medium
  Fighting in this game can get difficult, but the overall game offers some challenge without getting 
 too frustrated.
  
  Concept: 9.1
  The game does a great job of growing your graffiti skills, exploring the urban city, and providing 
 some history.
  
  Overall: 8.8
  A unique gaming experience can be hard to find these days. Marc Ecko's Getting Up: Contents Under 
 Pressure offers some unique elements, and a fun rewarding experience even with some control issues. 
 If you like the hip hop scene, or are interested in graffiti, you will enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fbishash
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 2, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  Well this is a revolution in the modern adventure Action games..
  
  But quite happy ending for those who like art n combat fighting
  This game had never allowed 
 me to use a gun.
  
  But got great moves which really addictive
  
  Got a new feature ipod
  Well u can play your own tracks in the game convert them in .mus file 
 then copy them into sound/music folder of gameRun disk check .. Start game select them when u 
 want to play it by opening the ipod.
  
  Now I will take u into the game,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, The storyline of Getting Up follows the exploits 
 of a "toy" graffiti artist known as Trane. Everything takes place in an urban utopia known as New 
 Radius, a city run by a dictator-like Mayor. Trane starts out tagging in places he has no right 
 to be. In fact, he's tagging in places that only legendary taggers are allowed. This is taken as 
 disrespect and Trane gets jumped by Gabe and his Vandals gang. Afterwards, Trane vows revenge and 
 sets out to flip the script on Gabe and his gang. What ensues is a great tale of one young man 
 who goes against the Mayor himself in the ultimate quest to "Get Up". Getting Up's game play can 
 only be described as a mixture of three genres: platforming, beat-em up, and tagging ala Jet Set 
 Radio. Personally, the platforming elements of Getting Up remind me a lot of the original Tomb 
 Raider game from the PSOne days. Back then platforming felt rewarding and awe-inspiring. Remember 
 how it felt to finally get Lara Croft to the top of that long-winded level and look down and see 
 where you came from? That's the exact same feeling that Getting Up offers. Trane is very agile 
 as he walks balance beams hundreds of feet over traffic, jumps from billboard to billboard, shimmies 
 across ledges, and a number of other feats. And he'll need every bit of that agility to get to 
 those seemingly impossible tag spots. Thankfully players can use the "intuition" button to help 
 if they can't find the tag spots. Using Trane's intuition, all tag spots will be revealed by translucent 
 ghost-like things that fly through the air and land on the spots. As for the beat-em up elements 
 of Getting Up, they are okay but nothing too extreme. Trane will do his fair share of fighting 
 throughout the game. Whether it be thugs, rival gangs, or cops, Trane will have to use every move 
 he has available to survive. As progression is made throughout the game Trane learns more powerful 
 fighting moves. With only two attack buttons things don't get too complex. Combos are usually very 
 short, but effective. Trane has a few stun moves and throws in his arsenal. He can even use stealth 
 to knockout enemies with his spray paint can. But a personal favorite is the old lighter and spray-paint 
 combo that basically causes a flamethrower effect. Also worth noting is that there are a few weapons 
 that Trane can find laying around to help him bash his enemies into submission. What should've 
 been the true meat of Getting Up's gameplay is actually not as strongly implemented as the fighting 
 and platforming. That element would be the actual graffiti tagging. Trane acquires a number of 
 tags and stickers during his adventure, some even given to him by real-life, legendary graffiti 
 artists that were included in the game by Ecko. The size and color of some tags can be changed. 
 In most cases the bigger the tag, the more respect points Trane is rewarded. What should've been 
 something really awesome only comes off no better than what we've been in other games that feature 
 tagging. Tagging in Getting Up is basically nothing more than moving the controller around the 
 outline, without painting too much in one area and causing a drip, until the artwork is filled 
 in. No need to switch colors or anything else. It's just too easy when you consider that this game 
 is really based on tagging. But casual gamers will not even care about this most likely. Besides, 
 the platforming alone is worth playing this game. In the bells and whistles area, Getting Up gets 
 the job done. Graphically, you can tell this is a cross-platform title. Still, Trane and some character 
 models look and move smoothly. It's only the lack of variety in enemy models that would bother 
 some gamers. At times it'll seem like you've fought the same guy hundreds of times... because you 
 have. The city environment itself is masterfully done though. New Radius looks like a real craphole 
 in most of the game's levels and I'm sure that was intended. As for the audio, it's great! Hot 
 music tracks from the best in hip-hop and even tracks that are unlockable. But the real kudos go 
 out to every celebrity or musician who leant their voice to a character in this game. Some of the 
 cast of Getting Up includes Twalib Kwali, Rosario Dawson, MC Serch, Giovanni Ribisi, P. Diddy, 
 Brittany Murphy, The RZA, Charlie Murphy, and Adam West. In a nutshell, gamers looking for something 
 different and challenging with a great story should be fairly content with Marc Ecko's Getting 
 Up: Contents Under Pressure. It's a really nice game that has a lot of heart put into it and isn't 
 just another gimmicky, crappy hip-hop game. And yes, that last sentence was directed towards games 
 like 50 Cent: Bulletproof. Marc Ecko, congratulations on a good first release in the videogame
 
  
  Well I must tell u that in some missions cheats will not help you much,,,,,,, if you are suppose 
 to die you will die,,,, ha ha ha enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 10, 2006 2:16 am PT
Review:  First of all, before this game came out, i just thought that this game is just an ordinary one 
 but after i played it, it really stunned me for a while. The cinematic videos are really cool and 
 done well. One thing that satisfy me is it still can be play on my Geforce4 Ti4200 smoothly. :)
 
  
  The gameplay is really really great and i love the acrobatic-action like hanging, climbing, tagging 
 and most important is fighting. The most important part of this game is tagging the wall with really 
 cool graffities. It is no doubt that this game is much like Prince of Persia but in modern environment. 
 One thing that i regret so much is camera control. it is kind of terrible camera control in certain 
 area like in small place and when your hiding from enemy, you cannot view from top or position 
 your camera away from the character to look when the enemy come. it just like that the camera is 
 attached to the character. anyway, it is not a big deal for me as the game is fascinating.
  
  The graphic are really cool and more details. i never thought it runs smoothly on my old computer 
 :) . it really satisfy my needs to play the game with great details and play smoothly. so, don't 
 worry if you have same graphic card like me as this card maybe too old to play new game like this 
 but it still has something.
  
  This game using checkpoint save which i don't really like much :) . i like the game with quicksave 
 but i'm still love this game.
  
  The sound is pretty cool with all the good soundtrack and one of my favorite is from Fort Minor.
 
  
  as my conclusion, this game is really rocks and fun playing. you will enjoy everytime you tagging 
 from top-to-bottom of the wall, hanging from one side to another, climbing the edge of the building 
 to reach heaven spot and fighting enemy to defend your pride. my recommended game to you is Marc 
 Ecko's Getting Up: Contents Under Pressure. Play it and feel the joy with me. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 5, 2006 5:13 am PT
Review:  When I first saw this game, I thought that it was just a derivative platformer/beat-em-up with 
 one or two gimmicks. But I decided to give the game a try, and to my surprise, it is a lot more 
 than that. Mark Eckos Getting Up has a unique story and setting, a nice fighting system, and 
 some gorgeous artwork that make the game more than worth playing. The tagging/spray painting mechanic 
 makes for a surprisingly fun mini-game type mechanic that is integrated very well into the whole 
 game. This game successfully immerses you into the role of a graffiti artist in a big city, and 
 that is what makes it such a unique experience. This experience is good enough the games poor 
 and frustrating implementation of stealth. 
  
  The game has four main gameplay elements: Platforming, fighting, tagging, and stealth. Platforming 
 is competent, but its not the strength of the game. Its not as good as the platforming in a game 
 like Prince of Persia or Psychonauts (but to be fair, thats a pretty high standard) . The platforming 
 isnt bad either. It serves its purpose, which is to give you an excuse to explore your environments 
 and find hidden stuff and tag hard-to-reach areas. Most areas have bonus tag opportunities and 
 secrets stowed away in high places that you can only reach by climbing and shimmying across various 
 surfaces. Trane, the character that you play, is a crazy daredevil who will climb to any high place 
 that he can to spray paint his name. Theres a great sense of adventure when you can scale a structure 
 and tag a hard-to-reach spot, and thats what makes the experience special.
  
  The fighting in this game is surprisingly good. It isnt just button mashing with a few combos 
 thrown in for good measure. There are a lot of combos, most of which you unlock by gaining reputation. 
 Theres also grappling and taunting  you also unlock the taunts. Its usually pretty easy to take 
 on one opponent, and two usually isnt too bad either, but three or more can get really hard, as 
 they will surround you and pound on you. Destructible items in the environment make for makeshift 
 weapons like wooden planks and garbage can lids. You have a lot of moves and tools at your disposal 
 when you fight, so that the fights never get boring. Theres a decent variety of enemies, and some 
 interesting boss battles thrown in for good measure. 
  
  Tagging is a fine addition to the game that transforms it from an average action game into a very 
 good one. Its a bit mini game-ish, but it still has a lot of variety to it, and it requires some 
 skill. Essentially, it involves holding down the middle mouse button to enter tag mode, and then 
 pressing the left or right mouse button to apply paint. You earn extra rep points by tagging spots 
 quickly, but you have to be careful not to overspray an area, or the paint will drip. The game 
 automatically fills out the colors and design of the tag  all that you have to do is spray. Its 
 a great implementation of this gameplay element. It gives you the experience of being a graffiti 
 artist, without being overly hard, but also without being overly simple. 
  
  What makes the tagging so great is the breathtaking art direction that this game sports. There 
 are literally dozens upon dozens of beautiful, cool-looking stencils, posters, murals, and other 
 fantastic looking artwork in this game. Some of the throw-ups in the game are eye-popping. Others 
 are quite funny  especially when you tag over a rivals spot. Getting Up has the best art in 
 a game since Psychonauts. Its too bad that this game wont be up for any best graphics awards, 
 since its technologically outdated. 
  
  Stealth is the games most poorly implemented mechanic. Its useless at best, and frustrating at 
 its worst. The main problem with stealth is that the game often requires you to hide from guards 
 and then tag areas while their backs are turned. The problem is, most areas are brightly lit and 
 small, and the guard patrol routes arent very long. Guard patrol routes last 35 seconds, but it 
 takes a minute or two to place a tag and get away. That means that its literally impossible to 
 tag anything without the alarm sounding. This gets incredibly frustrating when you start facing 
 the tough city cops two or three at a time. The game supposedly has a stealth KO attack, but this 
 mechanic is completely broken, another huge source of frustration. Getting Up is a pretty hard 
 game, and its the levels where you have to sneak around that are the hardest. It doesnt help 
 that the game uses a checkpoint save system that can cause you to have to replay as much as an 
 hours worth of gameplay. I hated these parts of the game enough to give the gameplay only a 7 
 instead of a 9. 
  
  The greatest strength of Mark Eckos Getting Up: Contents Under Pressure is that its so immersive. 
 One of the greatest compliments that you can pay any game is that you truly feel like the character 
 on the screen. You are the hero or the rebel. In this game, you are Trane, a truly unique hero 
 as video games go. Placing you in this role and into the graffiti artist culture is how the game 
 separates itself from so many others.
  
  Adding to the overall package is an excellent licensed soundtrack. Theres an excellent mix of 
 about 50% hip-hop, with the remainder being techno or alternative. The music always seems to fit 
 the situation. Never is a song out of place. You also unlock tracks by finding secrets in the game, 
 which you can listen to on the menu screens. The dialog and voice-acting for the game are very 
 well done. Its easy for a hip-hop/street culture type game to look and sound phony or stupid, 
 but this game doesnt. It feels very genuine. 
  
  Mark Eckos Getting Up: Contents Under Pressure is pretty long. It took me about 20 hours to 
 finish this game. However, it does drag at some points, and a lot of that time was spent replaying 
 some points after getting killed. A few times, I found myself really frustrated, and I had to quit 
 for a day. Even without replay time though, its still very long. Not only is it long, but it has 
 tons of content, like artwork and music. Suffice it to say, youre getting a lot for your money.
 
  
  If theres one idea that I hope to convey with this review, its that this game is a truly unique 
 experience. Story, setting, and gorgeous art make Getting Up more than just an ordinary action 
 game. Average platforming elements and poor, frustrating stealth make a lot of parts unenjoyable, 
 and that keeps the game from getting a better score. In summary, if you have seen this game but 
 have some doubts, I recommend giving it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatilov
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 29, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  The Good : A worth playing story line that makes you feel as the character himself , you get to 
 know different type of fame & legendary people in the ART of Graphitti . Cool soundtracks that 
 makes you enter the game just to hear them & a fullfilling dailogue that makes you enter the scenes 
 with strong idea on what will happen . And the graphics are great . All of these reasons provide 
 you with a great gameplay like never before experianced in the world of drawing & painting ( graphitti 
 ) !!! 
  
  The Bad : The mouse caursing isn't impressive as other games , were the mouse tend to jump up & 
 down , left & right when you are sometimes in high places trying to look down , or when you are 
 moving in tight places ( such as a room ) were you movie your mouse left but it directly goes right 
 back to were it was ( you move it ----  it removes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cnugegoda
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 17, 2006 2:26 am PT
Review:  If you like GTA then this is a great game overall. But have some impossible things to do but you 
 know every game has right? so there's nothing much to say about this game you have to play it to 
 know it.
  
  I personally haven't seen any griffiti arts in real life but know i wont to see them and i think 
 i would like them and respect the artist, after playing this game only i know how much hard it 
 is to do a griffiti art changing colours (you don't have to change colours in the game) making 
 an art look nice without any drips fight with other griffiti artists escaping from cops.
  
  THIS GAME WILL TAKE YOU TO GRIFFITI WORLD IF YOU LIKE TO GO THERE
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ApostleOne
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 15, 2006 7:14 pm PT
Review:  STORY: Main character Coltrane "Trane" Crowley, is a graffiti "toy" (a novice writer.. or for you 
 gamer-heads - a graffiti n00b) begins on a journey to become an All-City King. Along the way, his 
 fame is prevented by various enemies, rival graffiti crews, the CCK (Civil Conduct Keepers) or 
 Vandal Squad Cops, construction workers, and security guards. Your main goal is to "Get out, and 
 get up", however your objectives are soon readjusted as situations get more serious and personal.
 
  
  I don't really wanna get more into the stroy, best to see for yourself =) . Now for the game breakdown.
 
  
  GOOD: Innovative and fresh new game concept (awww yeah!) , easy-to-learn graffiti system, ability 
 to learn new graffiti/fighting skills, Prince Of Persia-like platforming, mood-fitting music (some 
 Real Hip Hop beats for ya'll to experience!) , excellent story.
  
  BAD: Not much replay value, slow start at beginning of game, annoying glitches/bugs
  
  GRAFF!
 
  -So your main point of the game = GET UP!! Basically, tag your name wherever you can and let 'em 
 know! Unlike Jet Grind Radio, Getting Up focuses more around the CULTURE of graffiti, and not just 
 the act of tagging itself. This means you'll get to do it ALL (some of which you may not have heard 
 of, if you aren't already into the graff scene) : aerosol, markers, glass etching, posters, stickers, 
 rollers, and wheat paste.
  
  -So how does it work? Graffiti system is broken down into two basic parts: freeform and primary. 
 Primary spots are located around each level and you MUST complete these tags in order to advance 
 to the next level. To do these, you'll climb up to your spot, and pull on the right trigger. This 
 will bring you into "graffiti mode." Then you will have to hold down the x or y button (The y-button 
 will later be unlocked as the "fast paint" button) and use the joystick to move Trane's hand and 
 paint your piece. As you paint, red spots will appear on your graff, you'll have to avoid going 
 over these spots or you will drip and lose "rep" points.
  
  -There are also freeform challenges scattered throughout the city, most of which are pretty much 
 "Bomb this wall with ten of your aerosol cans in less than 1 minute!!" You can also throw up your 
 freeform graffiti ALMOST anywhere you like, but it does get frustrating when it won't let you paint 
 a fresh blank wall.. You won't get rep for these tags, but it still is a nice touch to the game.
 
  
  -Now, finding these spots is a whole different story. Luckily, Trane is developed with the mind 
 of a Graffiti artist, using his "intuition" to find prime spots to bomb. "Intuition" mode is done 
 by pressing the black button. Your view will turn to an orange hue, and wispy-wavelike streams 
 will fly across the screen. This streams wil eventually run into walls, where your primary and 
 secondary spots are located. A very cool-looking effect to add to the useful feature.
  
  GET UP!
  Getting around the city of New Radius is half of the whole game. To get to your sweet 
 spots, you'll have to use your surrounding environment. Most pieces are located high up, called 
 "heaven spots". You'll be climbing sides of buildings, traversing ledges, hanging off sides of 
 billboards, pretty crazy stuff. One level, you're actually riding a subway, at the same time trying 
 to tag a whole top-to-bottom piece on one car (of course, aside from the realism of the game, this 
 certain portion... well, its just not possible) This part of the gameplay, i found, was very similar 
 to the feel and style of Prince Of Persia games. Each stage is a puzzle, trying to figure out how 
 you'll get to the top of that building, or how you'll get up to that billboard. Actually really 
 gives you an insight into what real graff artists go through for fame..
  
  YOU AIN'T GON' HIT EM!!
  You knew it would have to come in a game like this. Rival crews and 
 the CCK are out to get you! So what do you do? Knock em' down! The fighting system is actually 
 made pretty nice. I hoped it wouldn't be another Matrix style fighting system (cause that game 
 was just whack) you have a punch and a kick button, and you can press these in certain orders to 
 do special combos. As you gain more rep, you'll unlock new moves and specials. There is also a 
 little insult move, where you double tap toward a foe, then press punch to "stun" your opponent. 
 You can then perform an insulting/embarrisng insult move which not only looks cool, but makes your 
 enemy look bad and kick em real good. The fighting is very well balanced, as enemies don't "jump" 
 you. You may be well up against up to 4 opponents, however they usually won't all attack you at 
 once which really satisfied me. As one person has you in a lock up, the others will simply just 
 walk around you until you either switch to another enemy or defeat them.
  
  EXTRAS!
  Extras galore!! You can actually unlock all the secrets your first time through the game (as I 
 did myself) . All these unlocks are based on your number of rep points, which you recieve from the 
 various primary and secondary tags, so get out there and BOMB THE CITY!! extras include new beat 
 down arenas (which ill explain briefly later) , New skills/moves, concept art, more graffiti. Do 
 it Trane!!
  
  BEAT DOWN!
  Not a huge section of the game, but something to look at if your bored. This is basically a 2 player 
 "fighting-game" You each pick a character, which are all unlockable via rep points. You can choose 
 your areana and you and a friend can go at it. "P. S. Jack, your crew ain't **** Remember that!"
 
  
  BLACKBOOK!
  A blackbook is a graffiti artists Bible. In Getting Up, you get a blackbook to keep pictures and 
 biographies of the many graffiti artists featured in the game. You can unlock these by finding 
 them around each level and taking a picture of their work. You can then view your pics in the Blackbook 
 section by pressing Y at the menu screen.
  
  WRAP IT UP HOMIE
  A fresh, innovative game concept, in my eyes, finally produced. (what took ya'll so long?! And 
 I thought Jet Grind was ill!) Extremely captivating story, which really drives the game up 'til 
 the end. Nice fighting system, easy to learn graffiti system, scaling the cities has never been 
 so fun. My only flaw for this game would be it's replay value. Once you beat the game, there's 
 not much reason to go back and play through it again expecting something new and challengeing, 
 as you probably already have unlocked all the secrets you can find. There isn't a hard mode either. 
 Also, I found the game to be pretty sketchy/glitchy... Okay, EXTREMELY glitchy. I actually glitched 
 the game on accident and was able to rack up infinity rep points. Pixel collisions are pretty nasty 
 too, and sometimes you can't make Trane do exactly what you want to, but the movements are still 
 pretty reliable.
  
  My personal advice, if you are open minded to video games, or of you are a hardcore graffiti head 
 like me, go out and buy the game. BUT! if you do BUY the game, do yourself a favor and get yourself 
 a copy of the Limited Edition (that is, if there still is more in stock) because for just 10 more 
 bucks, you get a crap load of extra stuff including a silver Getting Up marker, a small black book, 
 game soundtrack, DVD w/ making-of and interviews with graff artists, not to mention the 4-xbox-cases-thick 
 tin box it comes with (sure beats the Halo 2 limited edition tin box!) . However, if you dont' wanna 
 buy it (which i wouldnt know why not?!?) then you would be fine going out and giving it a rent. 
 No reason for you not to finish the game in less than a week.
  So enough about that.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeeeeee9
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2006 3:03 pm PT
Review:  awsome story here in this game you will like the grafiti and love the charecters brilliant game 
 but the proplem is the game very short you will cry when it's end and feel so bad like other powerfull 
 games and theres some truble with engen in the game yes in some level... but this nothing for game 
 like it and sounds play good and i recomended you now to buy it
  awsome story here in this game you will like the grafiti and love the charecters brilliant game 
 but the proplem is the game very short you will cry when it's end and feel so bad like other powerfull 
 games and theres some truble with engen in the game yes in some level... but this nothing for game 
 like it and sounds play good and i recomended you now to buy it
  i think you must buy it or
  
  downloud it from torrent  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tom1Kaskla
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 17, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  Well it starts out with you being a toy and trying to get your name up. You will just be rivaling 
 with Gabe at the start , but it starts to get deeper and deeper and deeper as you progress. When 
 your about in the middle of the game the trains go silver and the CCK "evolvs". But sooner you will 
 understand that Sung isn't trying to keep the streets clean , but he is covering up a secret. But 
 I don't want to spoil the story so you find out.
  
  -----Gameplay -------
  The camera could have been better , but it's not unbearable. Well i got a wired X360 controller 
 so i didn't have problems. With the controls too. The combat is great , but not perfect so the gameplay 
 deserves 9 of 10.
  -----Graphics --------
  The grafiti looks awesome. The enviorments arent bad either , but there are no shadows which makes 
 them look a bit less realistic , but it's not that big of a deal. The character models are OK too. The 
 good thing about it is solid framerate.
  -----Sound ---------
  One of the greatest soundtracks ever in a videogame. And the voice acting is awesome. The dialog 
 is overall almost perfect. I love the way it uses the soundtrack. Like it used the Big Mama Thorton 
 - I Smell a Rat in the boss-fight against Don or something (sorry i can't remember his name) .
  ----Value -------
  The game is about 15 hours long and you can try the levels again. There are 
 many cool boss-fights you'll want to try again. Plus it's not that expensive on the pc for a experience 
 like this you'll never forget.
  ----Overall -----
  Its a great game and I hope you'll enjoy it as much as i did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Minhveryhard
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 9, 2006 10:52 pm PT
Review:  If you don't know anything about Graffiti, don't worry, you will immediatly love that kind of Art 
 after you play this game. It is a mix between Stealth action Hit and Run.
  
  The Good: 
  
  Great-Looking graffitis.
  Nice Sound Tracks.
  Creative ideas.
  Show gamerz some cinematic 
 scenes.
  Kool moves.
  
  The Bad:
  The Camera is so bad, sometimes I have an headache cuz of "IT"!!!
  
  In between:
  
  Average 
 Graphics (I know that it is not good for Pro Gamer but It makes your old system can play it easily!!!) .
 
  
  
  A GREAt game that worth the money, the first time I saw it, I don't believe that it will get a 
 High score in GameSpot !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kuruptt
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 22, 2006 8:06 am PT
Review:  This game offers everything.. just right everything.. it's a Graffiti Urban Culture.. you are Trane.. 
 a crazy Graffiti Artist who runs the game to win Reputation on the fired up streetz of Radius City.. 
 a City that has a Lot of Graffiti Artist's.. as we mentioned graffiti artist's we gotta mention 
 that they are a Rivals against each other.. trane got some rivals.. they fight with Graffiti's 
 even with fightin.. with each other.. but Trane is the legend as u play the game u will tag , spray 
 a lot of walls gettin up yo' reputation.. so the game is enjoyable in all ways.. u will move into 
 the most dangerous places.. High buildings , subways where train moves and a lot of ther hazard 
 places.. So !! what do we have to say more about this game.. as i gaved a little explenation , 
 Marc Ecko's Gettin Up loves graffiti , Art , do what your soul tells u to do.. Paint as much walls 
 as you can , beat your rivals they doesent worth the reputation as you worth , this is what it 
 should be with Trane name on it.. Trane's Name is everywhere.. he is being populated level by level 
 upgradin his Talnent in Graffiti's ART , he has his black book with all his artjobs.. u can unlcok 
 a lot of different things , like Music.. music it has a great soundtrack , Hip-Hop and other things.. 
 i like that way.. u can play the songs in the IPOD.. as i was saying this game offers everything 
 , everytime i review a game.. i say It offers everything because a game that offers everything 
 Got my review.. and those Low RATINGS from other sites.. they dont know anything.. they just try 
 to review something that they cant.. but what can we do.. just sit and watch.. watch other's reviews 
 and GS Reviews.. because this is the RIGHT CHOICE.. holla 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aiman24
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2006 4:05 am PT
Review:  Marc Eckos Getting Up: Contents Under Pressure is an awesome game, a must have for any gamer.
 
  So, In this game u have to play with this guy named Trane, gameplay is like GTA, there is free-roaming 
 ability, also there are fighting and acrobatic moves and abilities like in the PoP ( Prince Of Persia) 
 series, many weapons with different effectiveness against different types of enemies, enemies include 
 the law enforcers which are guarded with sticks and come to beat u up and the oppostion team. now 
 uptil now this review is just telling u how this game is exactly like GTA, well its not, this has 
 sumthin that that doesnt have, graffiti, u know it, awesome graffiti, many to choose from, although 
 in the beginning u start off with crap ones, later on they get extremely cool, n thats it, the 
 whole object of the game is to be the best graffitier (if thats a word) in the place, u have to 
 beat opposing team and then graffiti on top of their graffiti, to pwn the walls and streets of 
 the ghetto, city and undergrounds world, etc....
  all im trying to say is this game is awesome with many challenges, its easy at first but gets tough 
 afterwards 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidster0
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  ok so i have just started to play this game and i paased somthing like 10 levels i thik but this 
 game is so greate all the fight moves and all the graphity that you need to gett and some times 
 its hard to gett ther so you need to think how to do it and its hard but this game is really great 
 and allso its kind of new stuff its the first game i think ther you really need to do graphity 
 not like GTA
  you really doing and you need ther will no drips or somthing like this...
  so this game is just GREAT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboss33
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2006 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Marc Ecko's Getting Up - Contents Under Pressure is a amazing game that remmember you a gta san 
 andreas or the warriors .
  let see my opinion on this game:
  
  gameplay:
  Getting Up brings a new style in games .when i playing this game i never tired of playing it .in 
 one mission you have to find a secret places for painting or just doing a primary objectives you 
 can get more fight in mission otherwise run out of it and etc. in other words you have various 
 
  choices in this game.
  graphic:
  in today games one of the most important things is the graphic. Getting Up brings a good graphic 
 but it could be better .distant objects in this game don't have good details but its just good 
 for this kind of game.
  
  sound:
  Getting Up is really good in sound .environment and characters sound is designed very good ..... [i 
 don't talk about it anymore]
  combat system:
  in this game you don't have a gun and you must use kick and panch or some objects in around .you 
 don't have a wide choice in combats and thats a weak point for game .but few more combat system 
 and more fights in game could made it more interesting.
  
  at the end i must say getting up brings a new game generation you don't see before and if you play 
 this game you never waste yor time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnkio2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 13, 2006 1:27 am PT
Review:  When a famed graffiti artist like Dream stepped out of his house to go tagging back in 1983, the 
 idea was to stay unseen. The only face of fame for a graf artist in those days was the images they 
 left blazing on cement walls across the cities. As Dream crept into the Oakland train yards night 
 after night, hood pulled low over his face to help obscure his identity, I'm sure he had no idea 
 that one day there'd be a videogame based on his highly controversial art. Nevertheless, here we 
 are in 2006 and we have a videogame by Atari that mimics the lifestyle of the urban graf artist. 
 This isn't Jet Set Radio, but a tribute to one of the four legs of hip-hop -- the urban art of 
 graffiti. This is Marc Ecko's Getting Up: Contents Under Pressure, a game with great elements, 
 but weak execution. 
  
  The story revolves around a young urban phenom named Trane. He lives in the oppressive city of 
 New Radius and is ambitious about becoming a star graf artist, but there are a ton of obstacles 
 to contend with. Rival crews and fascist-like police officers called the Civil Conduct Keepers 
 (CCK) are very much interested in destroying young Trane. But he's not going to let any of that 
 get him down. Trane seems used to being disliked. In fact, almost everyone he meets wants to kick 
 his asOne of the coolest things this game has going for it is the kick-ass soundtrack! If the same 
 scrutiny given to the soundtrack was applied to the control scheme in the game, Getting Up would've 
 been an extraordinary experience. Just to give you a taste, the game features songs from Talib 
 Kweli, Mobb Deep, Pharoahe Monch, Del The Funky Homosapien, Eric B and Rakim. That's some serious 
 hip-hop talent right there, and it truly adds to the atmosphere of the game. At one point, Trane 
 is riding the roof of a subway and has to tag on it without getting knocked-off. In the background, 
 I hear the beat from Grandmaster Flash and Melle Mels' White Lines. This not only made me want 
 to start breakdancing on the spot, but it made this scene in the game adventurous with hip-hop 
 flavor. Awesome! 
  
  Another great element is how the designers have incorporated graffiti legends and black books in 
 this game. If you know anything about graffiti, you know that a piece book (or black book here) 
 is a tagging necessity. It's not only what you use to practice your art in, but whenever you run-up 
 on another cool artist, you want them to put something in your book. When Trane first meets the 
 legendary Futura, he makes a request for him to hit-up in his Black Book. It's a moment that made 
 me smile because it reminds me of the first time I met Dream. And just like Dream told me, Futura 
 tells him to "know his history." He explains that every time he sees a legend's piece around the 
 city, he should take a snap-shot of it and put it in his Black Book. Other legends offer up sage 
 advice, like when Cope2 tells Trane to "stay off the third rail." Any real graf artist knows what 
 this means as soon as they hear it. If you're dying to know, play the game, or go rent the movie 
 "Beat Street." In sum, the game takes an opportunity to educate the players on the nuances of graffiti 
 and what the art is all about. 
  
  One of the more curious elements in this game about art is the combat system. Trane can deliver 
 a host of punch and kick combos, roll maneuvers, blocks and grapples. On top of this, Trane can 
 humiliate enemies by smacking them when they're on the ground, and even go as far as shoving them 
 into pits or throwing them into oncoming traffic. For those of you who've played Devil May Cry 
 3, and managed to use Dante's Beowulf weapon, some of the techniques used there might look familiar 
 here. By holding the punch or kick button at the end of a combo, then letting go, you can deliver 
 a power move that drains some of your blue-colored skill meter. In brief slow motion, this move 
 flings a walloping punch or kick at the enemy, taking a chunk out of his life bar. When the skill 
 meter runs out, you can no longer pull off power moves, so you have continuously feed the bar by 
 getting your hits in. As for grappling, hitting the punch and kick buttons at the same time will 
 make Trane grab his enemies. At that point you mash the punch and kick buttons as rapidly as possible 
 to gain the advantage, and then Trane is able to delivePresentation
  The opening cutscene and menu design do a great job of capturing what a graf artist lives like 
 and sees. The urban atmosphere is spot-on. 
  8.0 Graphics
  All the graffiti pieces seen throughout the game are done by real graf artists, and they look great. 
 All the texture maps really paint the picture of a fun and gritty urban environment. 
  9.0 Sound
  The music is great. The line-up of artists really add to the experience. 
  6.0 Gameplay
 
  The platforming is very awkward. The camera isn't as bad as on consoles cause you have more control, 
 but navigating the painting sequence feels more complicated here. 
  6.0 Lasting Appeal
  Maybe if I could put my own art in the game, I'd play it over and over in order to spray it all 
 over the city. But there's not much to look forward to when you're forced to tag somone else's 
 name. I appreciate what this game is trying to do. Unfortunately, it cant quite get the fundamental 
 controls to work well enough. There are pros and cons to playing this on PC. The fighting feels 
 a little faster, but the spray painting feels more awkward using a keyboard and mouse. I love the 
 soundtrack, and I love the graffiti cultural nods that show up through the story. But I really 
 wish there was some way to import my own art and paint that all over New Radius. That element alone 
 would have given this game so much more substance. My only wish now is that the team pursues a 
 sequel where the controls are tweaked and user art can be implemented.
  r the appropriate knee in the face or jaw-dropping elbow to their backs
  s, probably because 
 he crosses out others' pieces he sees on the wall. In the real graffiti world, that's enough to 
 get almost anyone beat-up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ckreasul
Rating: 6.4
Date: Mar 7, 2006 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Although Marc Ecko's Getting Up is a refreshing change, and provides an interesting insight into 
 the world of Graffiti Art, the game is seriously lacking in many areas.
  
  The PC version of the game was obviously a direct port from a console version and as a result the 
 game itself suffers in many areas.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Although the Tomb Raider like acrobatics are fun and interesting at first, it gets old way too 
 quickly since just about every goal has only one path to follow in order to complete it. Finding 
 the bonus goals and secret areas are actually more fun than completing the storyline goals, as 
 the bonuses offer more variation in the skills and techniques required to accomplish them.
  
  Unless you use a gamepad similar to a Playstation or X-Box controller, then you will find this 
 game nearly impossible to play. Even if you do have a gamepad, then you had better get used to 
 the button layout because you're not going to be able to remap the controls without hacking around 
 in the game's configuration files.
  
  The game suffers a slight bit from shoddy camera control, and in fact there are some downright 
 frustrating areas in which the camera is in a fixed position, making it difficult to avoid the 
 "bad guys" while still trying to complete the graffiti missions.
  
  Graphics:
  
  For a modern game, Marc Ecko's Getting Up is severely lacking in the graphics department. You have 
 3 choices of resolutions: 640x480, 800x600, and 1024x768. Most gamer PC's these days run at least 
 1280x1024, Which can be achieved by hacking around inside config files, but don't expect it to 
 get any higher.
  
  The graphics themselves look acceptable, but no better. I will however tip my hat to the developers 
 for including artwork from graffiti legends such as Cope2, T-Kid, and many many more scattered 
 all over the game's landscape.
  
  Sound:
  
  No complaints here, this game offers an excellent musical score and great sound effects that really 
 increase the sense of realism, and the voice acting is just awesome, especially since various celebrities 
 are on the payroll in this department.
  
  Value:
  
  For about $50 US (EBgames. com) , the PC version of Mark Ecko's Getting Up seems like a budget game 
 at a non-budget price.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Worth playing, but nothing to get excited about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krayman
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 7, 2006 6:58 am PT
Review:  The Good : The gameplay in this game is huge... u spend at least 5 hours every time u are gonna 
 play it... this game gives u the hip hop and crime in the one and same situation.... it's challenging 
 and it's harder for every step you take. The Graphics is detailed enough but it's not something 
 new but the sound is perfect with thing, Music and speech..
  
  The Bad: The little things that is bad in this game is that you don't get enough of help when you 
 get stuck and don't know what to do next and even if you look at the objectives there's not enough 
 of info... and at the beginning it's so easy that even a 5 years old kid can play it but at the 
 next 5 levels suddently it's so hard that you try again and again to make it...
  Another thing is that there is no quicksave....
  and at last but not least the camera got some 
 problems sometimes when you try to turn to with the camera it can be stuck sometimes....
  
  But one thing is for sure.... This game is Awsome and is worth the money and the time you spend 
 on it... and remember there is no perfect game yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BMW_GTR
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 2, 2006 2:27 am PT
Review:  When a famed graffiti artist like Dream stepped out of his house to go tagging back in 1983, the 
 idea was to stay unseen. The only face of fame for a graf artist in those days was the images they 
 left blazing on cement walls across the cities. As Dream crept into the Oakland train yards night 
 after night, hood pulled low over his face to help obscure his identity, I'm sure he had no idea 
 that one day there'd be a videogame based on his highly controversial art. Nevertheless, here we 
 are in 2006 and we have a videogame by Atari that mimics the lifestyle of the urban graf artist. 
 This isn't Jet Set Radio, but a tribute to one of the four legs of hip-hop -- the urban art of 
 graffiti. This is Marc Ecko's Getting Up: Contents Under Pressure, a game with great elements, 
 but weak execution. 
  
  The story revolves around a young urban phenom named Trane. He lives in the oppressive city of 
 New Radius and is ambitious about becoming a star graf artist, but there are a ton of obstacles 
 to contend with. Rival crews and fascist-like police officers called the Civil Conduct Keepers 
 (CCK) are very much interested in destroying young Trane. But he's not going to let any of that 
 get him down. Trane seems used to being disliked. In fact, almost everyone he meets wants to kick 
 his ass, probably because he crosses out others' pieces he sees on the wall. In the real graffiti 
 world, that's enough to get almost anyone beat-up. 
  
  One of the coolest things this game has going for it is the kick-ass soundtrack! If the same scrutiny 
 given to the soundtrack was applied to the control scheme in the game, Getting Up would've been 
 an extraordinary experience. Just to give you a taste, the game features songs from Talib Kweli, 
 Mobb Deep, Pharoahe Monch, Del The Funky Homosapien, Eric B and Rakim. That's some serious hip-hop 
 talent right there, and it truly adds to the atmosphere of the game. At one point, Trane is riding 
 the roof of a subway and has to tag on it without getting knocked-off. In the background, I hear 
 the beat from Grandmaster Flash and Melle Mels' White Lines. This not only made me want to start 
 breakdancing on the spot, but it made this scene in the game adventurous with hip-hop flavor. Awesome! 
 
  
  Another great element is how the designers have incorporated graffiti legends and black books in 
 this game. If you know anything about graffiti, you know that a piece book (or black book here) 
 is a tagging necessity. It's not only what you use to practice your art in, but whenever you run-up 
 on another cool artist, you want them to put something in your book. When Trane first meets the 
 legendary Futura, he makes a request for him to hit-up in his Black Book. It's a moment that made 
 me smile because it reminds me of the first time I met Dream. And just like Dream told me, Futura 
 tells him to "know his history." He explains that every time he sees a legend's piece around the 
 city, he should take a snap-shot of it and put it in his Black Book. Other legends offer up sage 
 advice, like when Cope2 tells Trane to "stay off the third rail." Any real graf artist knows what 
 this means as soon as they hear it. If you're dying to know, play the game, or go rent the movie 
 "Beat Street." In sum, the game takes an opportunity to educate the players on the nuances of graffiti 
 and what the art is all about. 
  
  One of the more curious elements in this game about art is the combat system. Trane can deliver 
 a host of punch and kick combos, roll maneuvers, blocks and grapples. On top of this, Trane can 
 humiliate enemies by smacking them when they're on the ground, and even go as far as shoving them 
 into pits or throwing them into oncoming traffic. For those of you who've played Devil May Cry 
 3, and managed to use Dante's Beowulf weapon, some of the techniques used there might look familiar 
 here. By holding the punch or kick button at the end of a combo, then letting go, you can deliver 
 a power move that drains some of your blue-colored skill meter. In brief slow motion, this move 
 flings a walloping punch or kick at the enemy, taking a chunk out of his life bar. When the skill 
 meter runs out, you can no longer pull off power moves, so you have continuously feed the bar by 
 getting your hits in. As for grappling, hitting the punch and kick buttons at the same time will 
 make Trane grab his enemies. At that point you mash the punch and kick buttons as rapidly as possible 
 to gain the advantage, and then Trane is able to deliver the appropriate knee in the face or jaw-dropping 
 elbow to their backs. 
  
  There are some rather unforgiving problems with the combat system. For one, the mouse buttons don't 
 feel responsive enough, so most of the battles rely on the user simply mashing away at the mouse 
 in hopes of timing a well-placed hit. Everything just ends up feeling rather clumsy and forced. 
 It's a bit more intuitive on the PC when using the mouse, and Trane feels as though he moves a 
 bit faster here than on the consoles. But the overall combat still feels awkward. I know that at 
 its core, this isn't a fighting game. Be that as it may, I still expect the fighting component 
 to feel fluid and accurate. When I'm trying to land a punch in this game, I mash away at the mouse 
 as if I'm trying to force the game to work. 
  
  The platforming component here gets awkward as well, especially with the mouse and keyboard. For 
 one, some ledges you'd expect Trane to grab are unobtainable to him. You'll jump and jump until 
 you're blue in the face, and all he can do is the same lame slow-motion lunge without making a 
 grab for a ledge that he can obviously reach. Sometimes simply jumping from one platform to another 
 feels just as clumsy as the fighting. The camera isn't as painful of an issue on the PC, because 
 you can whip around and get a good look at everything using the mouse. So navigating is a little 
 friendlier here. 
  
  If you want to know where the sweet spots for tagging are, you have to activate your Intuition. 
 When you hit the appropriate button, the screen turns yellow, and blue and gold wisp-like vapors 
 streak across the screen. These ghostly entities show you where you're supposed to "get-up". You 
 follow the trail as they glide through the air, and they eventually land at an opportune spot for 
 a brilliant piece or throwie (or throw-up, as we say on the west coast) . The gold vapors land on 
 gold Xs which are your primary target. The blue vapors show you secondary targets that will get 
 you bonuses. 
  
  Once you make it over to where the vapors landed, be it a wall or billboard, the initial outline 
 of your tag design will glow white. At this point you can hot key through several styles you have 
 in your black book. As you progress through the game, more and more styles become available to 
 you. You can even make the piece bigger, depending on where your target is. If the piece is too 
 big for a given region, it'll glow red, letting you know that you must shrink it down some, but 
 you do in fact get bonus rep points for make big pieces. 
  
  When it's time to act, Trane pulls out the right tool for the job. He can tag with an aerosol can, 
 paint roller or glue brush, while some situations call for the simple scribble of a marker. Once 
 you start painting, it's your job to move Trane's arm around and cover the entire surface of the 
 design with the paint. This is where the PC controls get a little awkward. Using a mouse and keyboard 
 together to paint can feel cumbersome. Trane has to fill in all the spots without lingering too 
 long in certain areas or else he'll get dreaded drips. It feels a bit more difficult to spray evenly 
 with keys and mouse buttons. Getting the piece done in a sufficient time frame gets the user bonus 
 rep points, although I had tougher time meeting that time requirement using PC controls. 
  
  Don't assume you can just tag anywhere in New Radius. Although this would be a great feat to 
 be able to paint wherever you want in this world, Trane is limited to the predetermined zones. 
 There were several occasions where I ran up to a wall just for kicks and tried to scribble something 
 with a marker, and all Trane could tell me was "not here." What? What do you mean "not here"? It's 
 not like this is some complicated, slanted surface in the city -- it's a perfectly flat wall ripe 
 for tagging. Unfortunately, Trane couldn't do it. And this happened more often than I would've 
 expected, which is what made it stand out to me as a flaw. The fact that a graffiti artist (an 
 ambitious one at that) would stop himself from tagging anything just boggles the mind. 
  
  The hardest thing for me to get used to is the fact that this game has no feature that allows users 
 to design their own tags and put them in the game. On a purely philosophical level, how can someone 
 go about making a game about art without allowing users to be artistic themselves? Sure, you can 
 pick out colors and styles, but that's it. Graffiti is all about personal expression, so it's rather 
 heartbreaking to learn that the one game that was devoted to graffiti won't let you tag what you 
 want. EyeToy for the PS2 would have allowed you to take a snapshot of a drawing so you could throw 
 it in the game. As soon as I heard this game existed, I simply assumed that it would have some 
 kind of functionality that worked that way. I was sadly mistaken. 
  
  
  The fact that you can't paint your own personalized tags and pieces around New Radius has a direct 
 impact on how fun the game is. Think about it: How motivated are you going to be to climb some 
 dangerously high platform to tag someone else's name? I struggled with this throughout my experience 
 with Getting Up. I'd use my intuition to spotlight some high, tough area to tag on and suddenly 
 feel myself rolling my eyes in apathy. I just didn't want go through the trouble of getting up 
 there. And this feeling perplexed me for a while until I realized that I had invested nothing in 
 making sure that Trane got his name up there. The reason why real life graffiti artists risk their 
 lives to paint their art in those hard-to-reach spots around the city is that they're very proud 
 of the art that they come up with. They want everyone to see what color combinations and amazing 
 designs they've woven together. Why would any of them go through all that trouble to paint someone 
 else's name and use someone else's style? Sometimes a graf artist might write their friend's name 
 next to theirs if they're going tagging alone, but for the most part, it's a very narcissistic 
 hobby. So the fact that we can't impose our own sense of art in the game becomes an even bigger 
 loss. 
  
  Closing Comments
  I appreciate what this game is trying to do. Unfortunately, it cant quite get the fundamental 
 controls to work well enough. There are pros and cons to playing this on PC. The fighting feels 
 a little faster, but the spray painting feels more awkward using a keyboard and mouse. I love the 
 soundtrack, and I love the graffiti cultural nods that show up through the story. But I really 
 wish there was some way to import my own art and paint that all over New Radius. That element alone 
 would have given this game so much more substance. My only wish now is that the team pursues a 
 sequel where the controls are tweaked and user art can be implemented.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: azrainthegamer
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 28, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  First of all, before this game came out, i just thought that this game is just an ordinary one 
 but after i played it, it really stunned me for a while. The cinematic videos are really cool and 
 done well. One thing that satisfy me is it still can be play on my Geforce4 Ti4200 smoothly. :)
 
  
  The gameplay is really really great and i love the acrobatic-action like hanging, climbing, tagging 
 and most important is fighting. The most important part of this game is tagging the wall with really 
 cool graffities. It is no doubt that this game is much like Prince of Persia but in modern environment. 
 One thing that i regret so much is camera control. it is kind of terrible camera control in certain 
 area like in small place and when your hiding from enemy, you cannot view from top or position 
 your camera away from the character to look when the enemy come. it just like that the camera is 
 attached to the character. anyway, it is not a big deal for me as the game is fascinating.
  
  The graphic are really cool and more details. i never thought it runs smoothly on my old computer 
 :) . it really satisfy my needs to play the game with great details and play smoothly. so, don't 
 worry if you have same graphic card like me as this card maybe too old to play new game like this 
 but it still has something.
  
  This game using checkpoint save which i don't really like much :) . i like the game with quicksave 
 but i'm still love this game.
  
  The sound is pretty cool with all the good soundtrack and one of my favorite is from Fort Minor.
 
  
  as my conclusion, this game is really rocks and fun playing. you will enjoy everytime you tagging 
 from top-to-bottom of the wall, hanging from one side to another, climbing the edge of the building 
 to reach heaven spot and fighting enemy to defend your pride. my recommended game to you is Marc 
 Ecko's Getting Up: Contents Under Pressure. Play it and feel the joy with me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edubuccaneer
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 26, 2006 4:32 am PT
Review:  Sure, all the hype made by Ecko on about 10-15 On the Spot shows, all the videos, pics and other 
 media made me turn away from this game at first.
  
  But I came across it through a friend and he showed it to me. I've just been playing it ever since. 
 I hope I can finish it as soon as possible.
  
  The graphics and soundtrack make this game. Everything is crisp, detailed and almost impossible 
 to imagine it on the Xbox and PS2. It's a case of seeing to believe. The soundtrack is cool, good 
 thing they didn't go with the trend and add a lot of hip hop stuff. Just a little, it is acceptable...
 
  
  The mechanics are well implemented, and the grafitti look great. It is easy to start tagging and 
 beat the times the game challenges you to make. I only wish the game would give more control over 
 the way the tags are done, like mixing posters/stencils with the tags as a whole.
  
  The game takes what The Warriors kind of did with the Rembrandt character and takes it to another 
 level. It isn't all-out original, but it isn't the same old gangster-street-smart stuff that's 
 been appearing in the shelves last few months.
  
  That's a good thing. Now get up! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rossi-2k6
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 25, 2006 8:32 am PT
Review:  This game is an amazing game the sounds were excellent the graphics were cool the basic storyline 
 was very interesting it never got boring i wish there were more games like this . The gameplay 
 was amazing very easy to control on pc . I like the way that you can unlock different move combos 
 and different sprays . Even when it got hard i still played on it . I recommend this game to all 
 gamers its worth what ever price they charge.
  
  Thanks for reading this reveiw i hope it was helpful and it hopefully encouraged you to buy this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katilmis
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 23, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  
  As a fan of the old school Hip Hop music (talking stuff like Africa Bambatta, Sugar Hill Gang etc 
 - Not P. Diddy, 50 Cent etc) I've always had an appreciation for the Grafitti scene.
  
  I've known some Graff heads in my time and this game sums up the NYC graff scene in total. It's 
 obviously a little exagerrated here for the purposes of entertainment, but never the less the full 
 richness of the subculture is presented here in all it's entirety.
  
  There's tons of stuff here that appeals to gamers in general, especially people who enjoyed the 
 GTA series - there's little side quests and trinkets to pick up like exclusive iTunes songs which 
 you unloack along the way, plus other little gameplay elements that make this game very enjoyable. 
 The fighting engine is also a good one and far better than the GTA series. You have plenty of combo 
 moves do perform and it actually feeels like you're fighting, not like in GTA where it's extremely 
 frustrating after a while to fight people.
  
  Some of the missions are extremely hard and are not suited for the PC's controls. And some are 
 a little unrealistic on the time limits - they really give your fingers a work out on the keyboard 
 too. But apart from that the game runs fine and the gameplay is highly enjoyable.
  
  At the present time until someone creates a walkthrough and some cheats for the PC version this 
 game is pretty much unplayble in its current state. The ability to not save as you go along the 
 game is a huge letdown and really makes the game a chore to play
  
  I dont recommend this game for PC players....... yet!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thorandor
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 23, 2006 2:31 am PT
Review:  "Marc Ecko's Getting Up" was seen as the most promising titlesi n 2005, and now that it is finally 
 out in stores I had to have it. And it came with a free t-shirt (front: "Still free", back: orange 
 X) .
  
  The intro already makes you want to know what exactly happened to Trane, and how the times were 
 before artists were arrested and beaten up by the police. In the game you will never experience 
 that, however Trane's monologues explain everything to you during the game.
  
  The gameplay is very good, within 30 minutes you know all there is to enjoy the game, what buttons 
 to press, how to spray quickly enough and most of all how to fight. Overall the gameplay works 
 near perfectly, just some minor flaws with the camera at times.
  
  Sound and music are superb, many good artists wrote tracks for the game (like Fort Minor for example) , 
 and the music works very well with the game's environment.
  
  Marc Ecko's Getting Up is pretty short, with only 20 levels to play, but all in all it is a must 
 buy for everyone even remotely interested in the graffiti scene! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paatja
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 19, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  I had waited for getting up for 6 months so I had high hopes for it. It wasn`t that good that I 
 would liked it to be. The graficks are pretty rough at some points and allso camera angles are 
 some times really bad. But It`s still pretty much the best game for a while. The biggest fault 
 in the game is it`s lenght. I played it through in 22 hours. God dame. It really pisses me of why 
 didn`t they meke it like the GTA: s. Like free running around, becose after you played the game 
 through you hawent got anything to play anymore. Of course you can still collect the legend pictures 
 and play the game 100% through, but It`s not really fun any more. So atari and collective, If you 
 make getting up 2 , give trane some more space to run around !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
  Other wise a good game and ewen better sound track.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: soundsODD454
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 18, 2006 6:52 am PT
Review:  For those of you who aren't into the whole urban clothing scene, it pretty much started with this 
 guy Marc Ecko, who built a massive clothing label and dominated the urban fashion industry. Now 
 it seems, he wants to try his hand at the gaming industry, and from the looks of Getting Up: Contents 
 Under Pressure, he seems to know exactly what he's doing. 
  
  The game follows the story of an amateur ("toy" in graf lingo) graffiti writer named Trane as he 
 tries to become a graf legend amidst rival gangs, extremely dangerous environments, and a ruthless 
 mayor who is hell bent on eradicating the graffiti culture from the city. Now, I'm sure to some 
 this sounds like a pretty goofy story, but it executes very well and the script writing is smooth 
 and very well done.
  
  The main idea behind the game is to navigate in a very Prince of Persia style urban environment 
 to different spots where you can spray paint, marker, wheat paste, stencil, whatever to get your 
 name up. The mechanic for the graffiti is interesting and serves as a neat little minigame that 
 never gets too hard or tedious. There is also a very interesting combat mechanic involved with 
 some pretty stylish moves that seem like a combination between basketball dodges and Muay Thai 
 boxing. It's a blast to play as, but seriously Marc, you had to call it "Dunk-Fu?" That's just 
 a little too goofy for me, but thankfully it doesn't detract from anything.
  
  The sound for Getting Up is probably the best I've ever heard in a video game. Sorry EA Trax, but 
 Ecko has you guys down cold. The game is scored by underground producer RJD2, who does a fabulous 
 job in creating the soundtrack, creating a perfect mood to the game environments. The soundtrack 
 also includes licensed music from many various artists that seem like the dont go together (Bloc 
 Party along with Notorious B. I. G.?) but they are placed in the game in such a way that they fit 
 perfectly with the ingame action.
  
  Ecko has also managed to secure Hollywood voice talent for the vibrant and interesting characters, 
 including rapper Talib Kweli as Trane, Rosario Dawson, Giovanni Ribisi, (P) Diddy, and the mayor 
 of Quohog himself, Adam West. My personal favorite, Andy Dick as the suspiciously androgynous Aunt 
 Beth, head of the Mayor's undercover Vandal Squad.
  
  All in all, the game isa blast to play, and should put to rest any worries of the graf community 
 that this would go the way of 50 Cent Bulletproof or 187 Ride or Die. This game is bursting with 
 production value and style, and is a refreshing burst or originality in an industry full of franchises, 
 spinoffs, and sequels.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamo210
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  this game is so good for the lovers of game like GTA and total overdose : the soundtracks are great 
 with the big hip-hop singers and the graphics were superb which will make this game unique and 
 there's new style of fighting like doing acrobats like in prince of persia and doing moves like 
 souplex in the wrestling games and going behind the guards without they feel like in batman begins
 
  but there were some difficult missions but with a lot of trying i skipped it , the story and the 
 idea of the game is different from the usual we thank the developers and we want a second part 
 and this game is one from the recommended games this G A M E I S UNIQUE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pixelpimp
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 18, 2006 6:36 am PT
Review:  
  As a fan of the old school Hip Hop music (talking stuff like Africa Bambatta, Sugar Hill Gang etc 
 - Not P. Diddy, 50 Cent etc) I've always had an appreciation for the Grafitti scene.
  
  I've known some Graff heads in my time and this game sums up the NYC graff scene in total. It's 
 obviously a little exagerrated here for the purposes of entertainment, but never the less the full 
 richness of the subculture is presented here in all it's entirety.
  
  There's tons of stuff here that appeals to gamers in general, especially people who enjoyed the 
 GTA series - there's little side quests and trinkets to pick up like exclusive iTunes songs which 
 you unloack along the way, plus other little gameplay elements that make this game very enjoyable. 
 The fighting engine is also a good one and far better than the GTA series. You have plenty of combo 
 moves do perform and it actually feeels like you're fighting, not like in GTA where it's extremely 
 frustrating after a while to fight people.
  
  Some of the missions are extremely hard and are not suited for the PC's controls. And some are 
 a little unrealistic on the time limits - they really give your fingers a work out on the keyboard 
 too. But apart from that the game runs fine and the gameplay is highly enjoyable.
  
  At the present time until someone creates a walkthrough and some cheats for the PC version this 
 game is pretty much unplayble in its current state. The ability to not save as you go along the 
 game is a huge letdown and really makes the game a chore to play
  
  I dont recommend this game for PC players....... yet!
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
