-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Marine Sharpshooter 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/marinesharpshooteriii/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lots of fast-moving action.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Linear, derivative missions.
 atrocious artificial intelligence.
 generic visuals and sound.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  6, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2.4
Critic Score: 3.0, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 3.9, 226 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Groove Games
Developer: Jarhead Games
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     May 28, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Invading Iran is just as painful in this shooter as it probably would be in the real world. 

 
  If nothing else, Marine Sharpshooter 3 lives up to its billing. You play a Marine. You do a lot 
 of sharpshooting. And that's about it. The box-cover blurb claims that this franchise has sold 
 over a million copies, but it's hard to see how a game this dumb and derivative could ever develop 
 a fan base. While the game isn't horrific looking, and there is a lot of shooting going on, all 
 you do is stalk through linear levels sniping everything that moves. Retro shooter fans might enjoy 
 this monotonous killing for an hour or so, then look for the uninstall icon.  

          Do recon missions usually turn into crazed bloodbaths?     

  Still, at least the game 
 is topical. Marine Sharpshooter 3 kicks off with a Mahmoud Ahmadinejad soundalike at a press conference 
 where he claims that Iran is no threat to the world and that "using nuclear weapons is against 
 the rules of Islam." Uh-huh. It's a good thing that the US doesn't believe that nonsense because 
 it turns out that the Iranians are both messing around with nukes and arming terrorists in nearby 
 Iraq. So what starts as a recon mission where you're ordered not to engage the enemy unless absolutely 
 necessary soon turns into a search-and-destroy crusade where you gun down everybody you see. "Absolutely 
 necessary" actually comes into play right after receiving the above directive because you have 
 to kill a half-dozen Iranian soldiers within a minute of starting the game. So much for the sanctions. 

  The levels resemble movie sets more than war zones. Virtually all of the terrain and architecture 
 could have been excerpted from any of a dozen clichd World War II shooters based on the Unreal 
 engine. Nothing here is particularly awful, it's all just really uninspired. For example, perishing 
 enemies display ridiculous rag-doll contortions that would put Cirque de Soleil to shame, and baddies 
 never seem to say anything other than "Take cover!" or "Send for reinforcements!" during battle. 
 It's amazing how so many Arab and Iranian terrorists speak such good English.  

  There is little to no enemy artificial intelligence in this shooting gallery either, so these acrobatic 
 bad guys materialize from around corners, pop up from behind boxes, and appear in the back of trucks 
 like rabbits out of hats. The jihadist thugs just stand in place shooting at you, ignoring cover 
 inches away or running headlong at your position. Smarts are only on display during close-up firefights 
 with pistols or machine guns, which is when you will occasionally get flanked. But most of the 
 time, it's more like these terrorists are mindlessly running around rather than trying to save 
 their skins or trying to kill you.  

  The friendly AI is even dumber than your enemies. You can swap between the titular sniper and a 
 machine gun-armed spotter on demand, although both are brain-dead when running on autopilot. For 
 starters, your so-called ally doesn't even bother to fire back at enemies blasting away at you 
 much of the time. Movement and attack commands given through the simple order screen never seem 
 to be obeyed. If you tell your pal to act aggressively, he'll just freeze in place until you tell 
 him to follow you. Even when your teammate does actually do something like shoot back, he can't 
 hit the broad side of a mosque. The only thing he can do is block your way in narrow corridors 
 or on stairwells because the AI isn't even swift enough to get the hell out of the road when you're 
 pushing to get past.  

  It's best to forget about having a teammate and solo through missions as the sniper until you run 
 out of ammo, then switch to the spotter to blast through the final stages. Solo missions in the 
 campaign (there is no multiplayer) are so formulaic that this approach works perfectly. You run 
 forward, stop and crouch when you start taking enemy fire, then go to the scope to kill all of 
 the swarthy terrorist types in sight. Lather, rinse, repeat. Objectives typically involve straight 
 assassinations, or recon missions that play like straight assassinations, because you can't wrap 
 anything without stacking up quite a few bodies.  

          Your spotter. He looks tough. He acts tough. He's as useful in a firefight as Little Lulu. 
     

  However, even meeting these lame goals is often painful. The aforementioned AI problems are maddening, 
 as is the ability of enemies to target you from crazy distances and apparently spot you through 
 brick walls or tall grass. Enemies can seem to shoot you when you're totally hunkered down out 
 of sight behind a car or a rock. Levels also involve a lot of backtracking to complete objectives 
 because direct routes to goals are typically blocked by fences, walls, and junk in alleyways, which 
 is a transparent attempt to drag out the game without going to the expense of creating new maps. 
 Still, as long as you're patient enough not to run around too many corners, you'll be able to pick 
 off most foes before you can smell the shawarma they had for lunch. But being this cautious is 
 a real trial because the sheer awfulness of everything means that you can't help but try and rush 
 through missions as quickly as possible.  

  The grueling checkpoint system and long load times only add to the frustration, but surely you've 
 read more than enough. It's an appalling shooter on multiple levels, and it's not worth playing 
 in the slightest.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: aspenmike
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Aside from the really crappy sound, AI, Collision, and modeling this game is actually real good 
 the sniping is good the guns look good and you have a huge map to rome around and kill people. 
 I wish it had more of a selection of sniper rifles and pistols. The Ai sucks balls but in the previuos 
 series so did it too. The vechicles look like absolute crap and so do the models except for mabe 
 the sniper rifles. This is a great game to pass time and is actually fun. The ballistics are real 
 crap like taking two shots to the enemies chest or neck area. The AI is stupid real stupid but 
 that just makes the game easy. There is to much back tracking in some of the missions leaving this 
 game feeling like redient evil 4. 
  
  This game is fun but its only worth mabe 5 or 10 dollors not 20. Its fun it passes time but if 
 your looking for something thats good and great graphics and sound then this game is not for you. 
 It has too little of a weapon selection and is boring at times but it is not one of thoose sniping 
 games that require patients. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REDRAPTOR64
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 1:34 am PT
Review:  Honest, the visuals aren't that bad, just get a good enough PC and turn on bloom, not to mention 
 the point of the game IS to snipe, SHOOT ANY THING THAT SHOOTS AT YOU!!! The sound for the most 
 part, crappy, Just plain crappy on the sound side. Sure, its not a classic, but for most gamers 
 with only $10.00 for games a month, this is hours of fun. Another thing i saw was the CRAPPY ragdolls, 
 just gay looking, but with the UT2004 engine, its not easy, the guys at epic games, they pretty 
 much made it for THEIR stuff, not modders, i play ut2004 alot, and the mods, same problem, FLIPPING 
 RAGDOLLS WITH 6 FOOT ARMS. For $10.00, I say its a great game! Bought the trilogy about a month 
 back, and I cant stop playing it!! All i can say is its not so bad. Graphics: 9.0 Sound: 4.0 Game 
 Play: 8.0 Physics: 5.5 OVERALL: 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: symixxx
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jul 6, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  ordinary gameplay..
  
  we can only choose the primary n secondary weapon, which defined to sniper n assault. we cant choose 
 the additional equipment, we can only bring smoke grenade, single-eyed binocular, n knife (assault) . 
 also knife, grenade, n claymore (sniper) .
  
  1. sniper
  we can only choose few weapons with each personality. like 1 shot at chest 1 kill but the magazine 
 is not many. or the burst shot at body for only 1 kill, but the magazine is many.
  
  2. assault
  it's the same, only few weapons. like the one with addtional grenade launcher, or 
 with laser scope.
  
  but the plus point is the HDR, altough its not eye candy-ed like half life 2 or stalker, n the 
 HDR is looks like made just for additional wow .
  
  the sound is totally ordinary, even the exploding grenade is far from kaboom! .
  
  this game 
 is just follow the waypoint, finish the task, n get outta there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aminal_basic
Rating: 2.3
Date: Jun 26, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  What a waste of 19.95. I could have bought lunch with that! and I would have enjoyed it a whole 
 lot more than I did this game. I played Marine sharpshooter 1 and 2 and though they weren't the 
 best they were immensly more enjoyable than Marine SharpShooter3 is. I like a little advdnture 
 or challange when I play a game, Well if you're like me you won't get it in this game. Did you 
 know that Arabs like to get shot? Well according to this game they do! They just stand there and 
 shoot at you, and they know exactly where you are no matter how good your cover! You better watch 
 out because more than once I was shot while behind a wall ( wish I could shoot like that lol) . 
 The Iranians speak extremely good non-accented English imagine that, Heck I know good old Americans 
 that don't speak that clearly.
  Don't waste your time or money. Treat yourself! Buy a decent lunch and enjoy the day. It will no 
 doubt be a lot less boring and much more enjoyable that playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4anakim
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 19, 2007 4:16 am PT
Review:  Worst game ever!! After playing games such as MDK, Halo, Half Life, and Call of Duty, Marine Sharpshooter 
 3 does not quite qualify as a game. What a waste of money. What a rip off!!
  This would have qualified as a game back in the mid 80's when game developers started to develop 
 the concept of a PC game. By today's standards, Marine Sharpshooter 3 is several generations behind.
 
  I don't know what the game developers were thinking when they published it, but one thing they 
 need to know is that today's gamers are very sophisticated.
  This game has very poor graphics, kind of primitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wasiu-7
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 9, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  I think it's not THAT bad. Of course the graphics are outdated, but the horizon is vast. You're 
 supposed to consecutively reach checkpoints so it's linear, but you usually have 360 degrees of 
 opportuinity to take 90% of enemies (you can run around the hills and snipe out almost whole, f. e. 
 camp, village, city, you name it, before entering) . The cutscenes are bad (all of them are unstoppable 
 and they are live , which means by the time the cutscene ends, the targets that spotted you right 
 before the cutscene started... will probably kill you before it ends.... happened 2 times to me... just 
 take the targets before approaching cutscene triggering checkpoint) , the movement animations suck 
 big time, and majority of sniping guns are bad (I mean you have to hit target 2-3 times to take 
 them down.... though some have the option to attach the silencer) but still it's a pleasure to find 
 a game that makes use of Barret more efficiently then the other games - this game's Barret is automatic 
 (you are not forced to zoom out after each shot) , it's range is limited only by the fog of war 
 (very distant on max settings, btw) , the bullets don't drop, so you hit where you aim and the bullets 
 have great velocity, so you hit the target the instance you pull the trigger - no need to shoot 
 in front of a running-to-side target like in many other games (I'm talking to you mr BF2) Also 
 Mr Barret is more realistic here as with .50 bullets you don't have to care where you hit the target 
 - he's gone cold before he hears the sound of the bullet.
  
  This games either tends to suck that way or is designed to give you the opportunity to ease your 
 pain inflicted by many sniper nerfing games where you have to hit a target few times or the bullets 
 drop, or the bullets' speed is very slow or they make you snipe from 30m from raging targets. What 
 I mean by design/suckage is the fact that the enemies behave like.... targets on practice range 
 (there is even a situation where you have 10 snipers next to each other on the bridge, so you can 
 try to empty the 10-bullet clip into them at the speed of reloading) - the enemies try to shoot 
 you on sight, but if you go prone they tend to patiently wait few seconds to let you snipe them........ not 
 that it happens many times.... usually you can snipe them from about 1-2.5km = as soon as you spot 
 them in the fog on the horizon. This enables you also to snipe grouped targets without making the 
 rest aware of you - a dev's sloppiness maybe, but a nice practice-range-like feature in the end.
 
  
  The sounds are poor (the only sad thing about the Barret rifle here - it doesn't sound like the 
 0.50 monster that is able to kill.... I meant rip the targets head off... through a 20cm brick wall) , 
 so is the constant B-class rambo-like movie music (can be turned off in sound options menu, of 
 course)
  
  I had a semi-great time finishing this game, much a relief after hours of damage assists in BF2, 
 though not a game of the year for sure......... and it's the first game I played that's developers 
 had balls to put US snipers in contemporary Iran, that wants to use the freshly built nuke.
  
  Check you bargain bin or rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funky_facon
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 8, 2007 1:34 am PT
Review:  the games is very bad and the graphics is worse than my counter strike condition zero i got 3 years 
 ago. this game is really bad almost its like the new E. T. disaster that happened to atari. gameplay 
 is repetitive. didn't make sense. very low budget and has no advantage at all. how can things just 
 go wrong like that i think this series just have to stop. what happened to the first 2 games was 
 it this bad. this game shoul've never made it to the game industry after having these results. 
 i think they should learn a lesson from this and not to make the same mistake. get a better artist 
 and graphic designer for the game. this game is just wack and don't deserve to be played cuz it's 
 worthless 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bosc15
Rating: 2.2
Date: Jun 6, 2007 6:32 am PT
Review:  this game sucks definatly if you want to do some real sniping
  this is call of duty rambo **** with a sniperrifle SUCKS!
  
  the spotter is doing nothing but 
 just walking in the way and make sure youre being spot by the enemy... if they come after you he 
 waites very long to shoot back en his aim is crap... de AI sucks even bigger the guys are morons... 
 when i shoot somebody true the head he's just going to stand still next to him... easyer then before 
 i shot the guy.... its an unbelieveble cheap game
  
  that could have been made 5 years ago and stil suck 
::::::

::::::
UserName: valerossi46
Rating: 2.7
Date: Jun 3, 2007 3:02 am PT
Review:  How some people rated this as a perfect game, i'll never understand. I could only struggle to mission 
 two before uninstalling it. I'll start with the only thing i liked about it, and that's the music. 
 It's not excellent, but the oriental sound adds to the experience. Unfortunately, it's the ONLY 
 thing that adds to the experience. In the first mission you are told not to engage the enemy unless 
 absolutely necessary. Well, in this game, it's always absolutely necessary, and that is because 
 it lacks any stealth elements whatsoever, even if that's the whole point of being a sniper. So 
 the sniper might as well be missing from the game completely and it wouldn't change the way you 
 play in any way, because, other than being able to kill enemies from distance, he doesn't have 
 any other uses... most of the fighting is done at short range. At the beginning of missions you 
 can choose the equipment for your team (sniper + spotter) , but when i say equipment, i actually 
 mean weapons, because everything else is set as standard (grenade, smoke bomb, etc) . Also, the 
 developers seem like they don't have a clue about the meaning of the word TEAM . In missions, you 
 can switch between the two characters (sniper &amp; spotter) , but the AI is so bad that the inactive 
 character is really... inactive. All he does is follow you around, and he can't even do that right, 
 because sometimes he just stops somewhere, admiring the scenery, and you're stuck on your own. 
 But that's a good thing! When he does manage to stay with you, he's of no help whatsoever. No cover 
 fire, no nothing... he just gets in your way, especially when it comes to fighting enemies indoors. 
 Maybe he's actually an undercover agent for the enemy. And speaking of enemies, they're just as 
 terrible. They're about as smart as a rock, yet they alway seem to have superhuman vision and see 
 you from afar, no matter if you are crouched or even prone, or behind trees or bushes. There are 
 so many things wrong with this game, there's not enough room here to describe them. If you're out 
 of ammo, tough luck, coz there is no way to replenish it, or at least i haven't found any... no 
 ammo crates in buildings, no ammo on dead enemies (also you can't enter every building, only those 
 with no doors or the doors open!) . Also, health system is somewhat of a miracle. There's no health 
 bar, and when you get shot by enemies, the screen gets cracked and becomes red... that's the only 
 indication that you're hurt and you're going to die unless you do something fast! And all you can 
 do is either kill the enemies (obviously) or - and you'll love this - just run away and hide. It 
 seems that as soon as you get out of a fight, all your health is restored. It's as if you just 
 needed to catch your breath! Like i said before, there are so many things wrong with this game 
 that i can only recommend you play it if you are as curious as to want to discover all of them. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgs-aura
Rating: 3.3
Date: Jun 2, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  This seemed at first like a fair game, but became extremely boring about 2 mins out in the first 
 mission. This after trying to hide behind vegetation and other obstacles in the landscape as u 
 are a sniper with no success. The ai sees tru everything, making it hard to snipe anything. And 
 if by any chance you should get of the first shot before being spotted ul have the rest on ur six 
 in no time. The graphics are dull and flat, the sound just about the same. And the story is based 
 on Iran getting nuclear weapons. All in all this brings nothing new to the table. It might be fun 
 thu for die hard fans but other than that.... just not worth the money. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
