-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Marine Heavy Gunner: Vietnam
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/marineheavygunner/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 30, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.1
Critic Score: 4.8, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 5.8, 72 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Groove Games
Developer: Brainbox Games
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date:     Aug 22, 2004
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Ultimately, like many budget titles, this one's the poor man's version of its full-priced competition. 
 

  Marine Heavy Gunner: Vietnam is a budget-priced first-person shooter that combines the seamless 
 narrative style of Half-Life, the computer-controlled squadmates of Vietcong, the fixed-position 
 gunplay of Beachhead, and Max Payne's over-the-top tough-guy dialogue. It's also filled with overheated, 
 deranged metaphors, such as "Half of these jokers were doing the backstroke six feet under and 
 had no idea, trying out for the swim team of the soon to be dead." That all might sound great, 
 but unfortunately, Marine Heavy Gunner's actual execution leaves a lot to be desired. For what 
 it's worth, though, the game does feature a really impressive amount of heavy-duty swearing.  

 
          Firing your heavy gun from the mounted position.     

  You play as Grant, a marine heavy gunner who, along with a squad of seven other soldiers, must 
 infiltrate a North Vietnamese prison camp to rescue some American POWs. The game's most remarkable 
 feature is the way the story plays out. Rather than break everything into discrete levels, the 
 game flows more or less seamlessly from your initial helicopter insertion to the final extraction. 
 You have the sense of experiencing an actual event rather than a series of disjointed action scenes. 

  Gameplay is split into three basic types. There are extended on-rail sections in which you man 
 a gun mounted on various vehicles such as a helicopter, an armored personnel carrier, and a boat. 
 These sections have neither the breakneck urgency nor the cool scripted set pieces seen in the 
 best examples of on-rail levels from games such as Call of Duty or the Medal of Honor series. Like 
 pretty much everything in Marine Heavy Gunner, they're functional at best.  

  At certain predetermined points, you'll attach the heavy machine gun you're carrying to a fixed 
 position and then blast away at waves of incoming attackers. The rest of the game is spent on foot, 
 and much of the time you'll be accompanied by the members of your squad. As implemented, the squad 
 mechanic feels incomplete. Teammates appear to move in prescripted patterns. Sometimes they'll 
 shoot at enemies; sometimes they'll ignore them completely. Since squad members can't be hurt or 
 killed (except as part of the plot) , there isn't any incentive to protect anyone. Your fellow marines 
 will occasionally manage to kill an enemy, but for the most part, they're just window dressing. 
 The exceptions are one teammate that carries extra ammunition and another who's a medic. These 
 two soldiers act as walking health and ammo crates from which you can resupply whenever necessary. 

  The jungle setting doesn't provide much tension, largely because you're equipped with a radar that 
 shows the position of every nearby enemy. In fairness, you can turn off the radar in the options 
 menu. Though, it probably should have been turned off by default. Regardless, the game's enemy 
 artificial intelligence is spotty. Occasionally, the AI will appear to do something smart like 
 retreat to cover, though usually they'll run right at you, often straight through a gauntlet of 
 your teammates.  

  The game uses the Unreal engine, though you'd be hard pressed to tell that it uses any sort of 
 modern rendering technology. From both a technical and artistic standpoint, the game's visuals 
 are its weakest part. The curtain of fog that we all hoped had been mothballed two or three years 
 ago is back with a vengeance. What isn't obscured by gray mist is generally washed out and painted 
 from a palette of what looks to be one of four or five lifeless textures. There seems to be some 
 sort of basic physics system in place, but it doesn't appear to be completely functional. For instance, 
 an enemy killed on any kind of platform will tend to fall straight through it rather than off of 
 it.  

          Swift boat action!     

  The voice acting is of the so-bad-it's-good variety. Whoever did the voice work is a master of 
 dialects, but is evidently incapable of maintaining the same dialect for two lines in a row. Some 
 characters switch from being Southern to British to Indian within the span of a few sentences. 
 Coupled with the terrible dialogue and the nonstop swearing, you may start to look forward to every 
 speaking part. Especially noteworthy is the vicious taunting you'll receive from the Vietcong, 
 who repeatedly scream things like "F*** you Uncle Sam," "F*** you Yankee pig," and the truly unforgettable, 
 "F*** you American blue jean!"  

  As a pure, seven-hour-long shooting gallery, Marine Heavy Gunner has its moments. But so do a thousand 
 other games, many of which also sport multiplayer modes -- something this game lacks. Ultimately, 
 like many budget titles, this one's the poor man's version of its full-priced competition. However, 
 the savings in cost simply isn't worth the significant discrepancy in quality.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: motahead
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 31, 2006 10:00 pm PT
Review:  i bought this game for $2 from the game wizard bargain section so have no complaints about value 
 for money. i found it fun to play and had many enjoyable hours of gameplay. there are plenty of missions 
 with lots of shooting and action. you play as part of a squad so there is a feeling you are not 
 alone with your buddies support. this game and vietcong are similiar with the latter the best.
 
  graphics are ok and the weapons look and sound good. sound and voice acting are average and do 
 the job. so if you like vietnam war games give this 1 a try. i was in the army for 2 years from 1969 
 to 1971 but i guess luckilly was not sent oversaes. i suppose that is a reason these games attract 
 me just imagining what it was like. my favourite vietnam games are-1] vietcong 2] battlefield vietnam (not 
 too good for single play) 3] platoon 4] marine heavy gunner 5] black ops 1 and 2 6] vietnam med evac.
 
  all time favourite war games 1] call of duty 2] medal of honour 3] battlefield 1942 4 ] deadly dozen 
 1and 2 5] gi combat 6] sudden strike 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 21, 2006 9:15 am PT
Review:  If I had to venture a guess about the starting point of my unremitting enthusiasm for first-person 
 shooters, Id say that it all began with Six Flags Over Georgias Wild West shooting gallery, at 
 which I spent many a coin as a lad of around six or seven. That little carnival booth contained 
 the typical old-timey saloon patrons and furnishings  a piano, spittoons, gamblers, and so on 
  all marked with a tiny bulls-eye and geared to pop open, tip over, or dance around with a direct 
 hit from a sharp-eyed sucker. If I had my druthers, I would stand there plinking at the dozens 
 of working targets until either the park was closed or my allowance was gone, if not for my pops 
 moderating influence. Trying to reproduce that same shooter fix at home wasnt possible; my parents 
 wisely crossed my request for a BB gun off of my list for Santa each year, and video games were, 
 at the time, only capable of rebounding a square dot back and forth across the TV screen.
  
  Flash forward a few dozen years, and PC games can satisfy the inner child with hours and hours 
 of target practice. Whats more, modern games allow for complete mobility, the better to leave 
 the saloon and travel out into the virtual world on a search for more targets. Marine Heavy Gunner 
 crash-lands the player into a jungle setting and challenges him to jump from gallery to gallery. 
 The results are a mixed bag, but I think I can summarize the entire experience thusly: the fixed-point 
 and on-rails sequences in MHG were a slack-jawed blast, while the portions spent schlepping to 
 the next waypoint were tooth-grindingly awful.
  
  Overall, MHG is a reasonably competent budget-brand FPS. Character animation is lacking, the combat 
 model is simplistic, and the voice-overs are ghastly. The players squadmates are a terrible shot 
 and contribute to each encounter by firing their gun at the rate of only about four rounds per 
 minute. (As an aside, one of my mates was marginally effective with his grenade launcher, so I 
 found a second Blooper and handed it off to another member of the team. Those guys saved my life 
 a few times by taking out two or three aggressors at an opportune moment with their languorous 
 volleys. However, its only fortunate that we good guys were all immune to friendly fire, as the 
 AI-controlled grunts were just as likely to lob a round into a tree four feet in front of the group.) 
 Despite those negatives, I had a very good time shredding ground targets in a chopper and destroying 
 anything that moved during a brief riverboat ride. On foot, tromping through wave after wave of 
 generic VC combatants dulled the senses until relief appeared in one of the games thankfully plentiful 
 fixed-point shooting gallery interludes, in which the MHG can prop his Hog on a log to earn his 
 pay with some serious carnage. Nothing fancier happens during these sequences than a steady slew 
 of attackers popping out from behind walls, rocks, and foliage, but the effect is satisfying all 
 the same.
  
  Marine Heavy Gunner is modeled after the cinematic characterization and mission-based field exploration 
 of Vietcong. Although MHGs technical elements fall far short of its creators aspirations, they 
 were on the right track with some of their gameplay ideas, and their presentation of several deep, 
 choking acres of jungle scenery is admirable. I recommend this title for anyone who remembers the 
 joys of those old-fashioned carnival shooting galleries, but not for players with a low tolerance 
 for unpolished budget titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: some_guy2345
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 3, 2005 6:08 am PT
Review:  Marine: Heavy Gunner is a continuation of the value budget "Marine" series, following the Marine: 
 Sharpshooter games. Developed by a different company with a different engine, and also published 
 by a different publisher, these games are related by name only.
  
  --Plot --
  The plot itself is just a combination of every 80's Vietnam movie ever produced. You're part of 
 a division of men who're sent in to rescue a bunch of POWs. The main character is the typically 
 cynical and broken soldier who only stays in Vietnam because he has nothing to go back to at home. 
 Your squad is also littered with cliches. You have to tough as nails Sergeant, the poorly treated 
 minorities and the guys who always die just before they go home.
  
  --Graphics --
  The graphics are decent, but not excellent, especially compared to graphic-whore giants such as 
 Half-Life 2. The game is bolstered by the Unreal Tournament 2003/2004 iteration of the Unreal engine, 
 Unreal Warfare. Most of the models look fairly well done, especially coming from a budget developer. 
 The NPCs look fairly lifelike, and all the weapons have a sort-of rugged look to them. However, 
 the textures and level design are fairly bad. Almost all of the textures are low quality and are 
 used repeatedly, ad nauseum. The level design consists of large landscapes enshrouded in poor looking 
 fog or cramped, empty, dimly lit buildings.
  
  --Sound --
  The sound is slightly above average. The weapon sounds could use some work: the rifles sound weak, 
 and some of the sounds are down right weird. However, the crappy sound effects are saved by the 
 voice acting. The actors aren't very convincing in their fake Hispanic or Asian accents, but some 
 of the lines are hilarious. I cracked a smile every time one of the VC yelled out a random insult, 
 such as, "Die American blue-jean!".
  
  --Gameplay --
  The game consists of two modes: on the rails shooting, and on foot shooting. Half of the time you'll 
 be mounting up and using a heavy weapon -- either your M60 "pig" or a weapon attached to a vehicle 
 that you're riding -- and shooting nearly endless waves of VC that come from all directions for 
 anywhere from 5 to 15 minutes. You'll have unlimited ammo, pin-point accuracy, and you can't take 
 a lot of damage. However, if you're in a vehicle rail-shooting level, you'll have to watch the 
 "health" of your vehicle -- if it's gone, you are too.
  
  The other half of the game consists of trecking about with your squad, shooting whatever VC wander 
 by with a variety of weapons. Your squad is more or less window dressing, except for your medic 
 and munitions man, who serve as health and ammo distributors. Your squad can't die either, unless 
 it's in a cutscene. They talk excessively, but they're not very good at fighting. Often, they'll 
 pass by enemies and leave the burden to you. Sometimes you get orders from your Sergeant, who'll 
 ask you to do some objectives on your own, such as planting traps or taking out those pesky snipers. 
 To help you in your duties is your radar, and the fact that any objective-related object is gold 
 coloured.
  
  The enemy is particularly intelligent either. They're very stupid and have bad aim, but they eventually 
 overwhelm you in numbers. Also, about three levels in, every VC is armed to the teeth with heavy 
 machine-guns, so you'll come to rely on your medic often.
  
  The weapons system is an interesting aspect. Opting for a more realistic-oriented approach instead 
 of the normal "Rambo being able to carry six billion weapons in his pocket" style, you're limited 
 to four weapons, although there are many more in the game. You have your heavy weapons (M60 and 
 RPK machine guns, etc) , medium weapons (M16, shotgun, AK47) , light weapons (pistols) , and grenades. 
 Ammunition is also scarce when you're on your own, so if you run out you'll have to resort to scavenging 
 enemy weapons. Another neat point is being able to switch medium weapons with your squad-mates. 
 Nothing's more fun than equipping them all with shotguns and watching them trying to hit long distance 
 enemies, or giving them all grenade launchers.
  
  --Value --
  No multiplayer, no unlockables. Once you beat the game, that's it.
  
  --Overall --
  A good 
 game that could've used a bit more polish. As it is a budget title, you shouldn't expect very much. 
 It was $20 when I first bought it, and it should be about $10 or less now. It's well worth buying 
 if you enjoy mindless shooting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rtang18
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 3, 2004 7:13 am PT
Review:  I first heard about this game when I noticed it on the 'Also consider' section of another game. 
 At first glance, then at the site of Marine Heavy Gunner, I could already tell this game was going 
 to suck. I was right. 
  
  
  
  Marine Heavy Gunner places you in the role of 'Specialist Heavy Gunner' Grant (my first note - 
 there is no rank in the US Army called 'Specialist Heavy Gunner' - so much for realism) as he fights 
 in the Vietnam War. His view towards the war is similar to the many we've seen in other games and 
 movies - a bloody and horrific conflict. I'll give credit for the game for this, but otherwise, 
 its no different from what the soon to be released Shellshock: Nam '67 is going with. Anyways, 
 on with the review. 
  
  Grant is accompanied by his teammates, all of whom are invincible (so we may not have to actually 
 babysit bad AI, maybe) . Two are useful due to how they supply Grant with ammo and health, but the 
 rest are just there for show. As I kept playing, I noticed how little animated they are, especially 
 in the intro video, where their mouths don't move while speaking, and while they move, where they 
 look as if they were sloppily animated by the developers. 
  
  Aside from bad animations, their voice acting and AI doesn't help either. There is plentiful swearing, 
 and it isn't different from what I've seen with The Suffering, but the acting isn't convincing 
 - the teammates and other soldiers you'd run into seem to talk in such an exaggerated Texan accent, 
 or they say things we've already heard in many other games and movies. Their AI is just as bad 
 as their voice acting. As I said earlier, your entire team is basically there just for show - they 
 can barely hit the enemy, and if one guy on your team has a grenade launcher and you happen to 
 be standing next to him, disarm him of it immediately! He will fire, and sometimes hit the enemy, 
 but chances are he'll fire but fail to realize that he has the muzzle pointed at the rock right 
 in front of him. If you happen to be next to him, he won't die, but YOU will. 
  
  The enemy isn't impressive either. Typical bad AI, along with horribly spewed taunting, which is 
 always f*ck ___________. From what I know, I never knew the Viet Cong spoke English fluently enough 
 to say that. 
  
  The gameplay is okay - better than what I'd expect, but otherwise nothing special. It has moments 
 where you'd have to mount your trademark M60 (or for me, the PKM) and lay down fire on advancing 
 VC. These moment occur when you need to get to a specific spot within a certain duration of time 
 and mount your weapon there, much similar to Day of Defeat and using machine guns. However, with 
 the infinate ammunition you suddenly gain when doing this, the entire game becomes nothing but 
 a mindless shoot 'em up - not exactly what the Vietnam War was. That fact would have been one of 
 the few problems with their system, but when you're unmounted, it game is still a nonrealistic 
 shoot 'em up. From what I know, M60's are pretty heavy, and aren't the most accurate of weapons, 
 but with how it is used in the game, it seems as though its a wonder weapon or an assault rifle. 
 For that, I can almost be thankful there isn't multiplayer, since stuff like that would be unbalanced 
 as HELL. Other parts of the game put you into 'lone wolf' missions where you need to go in alone 
 (while your teammates wait elsewhere) to do a certain simple task, such as retrive item X, destroy 
 item Y, or do something else we already have experienced with item Z. Too simple, really. 
  
  Marine Heavy Gunner has a realistic list of weapons: M16's, AK47's, SKS's, etc. This would 
 have been good, but it still isn't. Weapon models look they they were done by an amateur skinner, 
 and even so, some of the reloading animations are inaccurate (clearly, the developers have NEVER 
 need pistols or a Simonov SKS being reloaded before) . The other problem with the game is how when 
 you reload a partially loaded clip, the number of rounds each magazine is supposed to carry is 
 deducted from your current supply. As strange as it sounds, it makes sense when you completely 
 unload a clip, possibly how it was designed, but it seems like they missed the rest. 
  
  The graphics for Marine Heavy Gunner, contrary to what the box claims, are dated and subpar. Powered 
 by the Unreal Engine (Unreal Tournament, the first one, not 2003/2004) , the engine is put to poor 
 use here. If we've played our share of mods by the Unreal Tournament community, we've seen impressive 
 works be done, by fans and people who have been gifted enough to learn how to use UnrealEd (what? 
 I never got how to use it...) . As for Marine Heavy Gunner, being a game which although was on a 
 small budget, is more than what modders would work with, is sloppier and looks even older than 
 what UT is supposed to be like. The Unreal Engine was always impressive and was able to do great 
 effects and create beautiful and creative levels and worlds. But the developers of Marine Heavy 
 Gunner seem to have missed all that, using a powerful engine to create boring and dead levels choked 
 in a horrible looking fog that might as well be hiding the small draw distance of the game, and 
 to create wimpy and primitive explosion effects. 
  
  In conclusion, there really isn't any need to buy Marine Heavy Gunner (see my note on the game's 
 CD above) . If you're looking for a cheap budget game, you'd be better off not even spending your 
 money on it, or better yet, look for another game, or even save up more to get a vastly superior 
 game. If you insist, you may buy Marine Heavy Gunner, but all you'd find is a waste of your money 
 and time better spend on another game. 
  
  
  /end review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccooke
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 26, 2004 1:38 am PT
Review:  this game is very realistic but also like movies too especially my favourite full metal jacket
 
  
  its just like real war death can come at any moment (a guy who reviewd steel battealion said that 
 about S B) anyways you die in 3 hits on normal difficulty (which is pretty realistic)
  well sorta.
  
  graphics are average very dated not good for systems right mow look like there 
 from 1999
  
  but who cares! i care about gameplay more than graphics!
  
  but one real problem is no multiplayer!!!!!!!!!!!! that is insane!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  this game 
 NEEDS multiplayer!!!! ic could have capture the flag deathmach and lots more!
  
  a real problem i hope they make a multiplayer patch fior it
  
  that aside this is an awsome 
 game with realistic weapons oh an i for got! you are alomst always with your platt\oon which make 
 \s it fun like ghost recon and rainbow six
  
  but a platoon based game should have multiplayer right?
  
  anywayws with the bad aside its 
 a great game and i reccomend it to all fans of shooters and action gamers alike!!!!!!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
