-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Marine Sharpshooter II: Jungle Warfare
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/marinesharpshooter2jw/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  7, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.3
Critic Score: 5.1, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 6.0, 111 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Groove Games
Developer: Jarhead Games
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     Jun 24, 2004
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Marine Sharpshooter II: Jungle Warfare is better than Marine Sharpshooter, but it's still not good. 
 

  Marine Sharpshooter II: Jungle Warfare is better than Marine Sharpshooter. It's also the best of 
 the five budget-priced shooters that developer Jarhead Games has churned out over the last two 
 years, which is mostly a testament to how bad those earlier games were, because Marine Sharpshooter 
 II still isn't very good.  

          Expect to see a lot of this, only it'll usually be more green.     

  For example -- and 
 this may be a spoiler for anyone still planning to buy the game and then play it all the way to 
 the end -- the final boss is a Hutu strongman you've been chasing all over the impoverished sub-Saharan 
 nation of Burundi. He's introduced in a cutscene that makes it appear that he has run off somewhere, 
 at which point an unending stream of rebel soldiers begins attacking you from a few hundred meters 
 away on the far side of an impassable gorge. Rather than having some sort of distinguishing feature 
 or behavior, the rebel boss acts and looks almost exactly like the surrounding grunts. Worse, the 
 fight takes place in a downpour at night, meaning you'll probably be using night vision, which 
 turns everyone into an even more indistinguishable green blob. The boss also exhibits absolutely 
 no reaction to being shot. Because he's hiding behind a pile of crates and because you've had eight 
 hours to become acclimated to the spotty collision detection -- sometimes a tuft of grass will act 
 as a bulletproof barrier -- you'll assume that he's a minion inadvertently protected by the gameworld's 
 haphazard physics and move on to other targets. Finally, you'll need to shoot the guy -- who doesn't 
 look like a boss and doesn't react to being shot -- 11 or 12 times before he'll die, a level of superhuman 
 endurance completely unprecedented in the game's otherwise realistic damage model, all of which 
 adds up to one of the most confusing boss encounters ever created. You expect a certain level of 
 corner cutting in a budget game, but a small budget can't excuse what is, in this case, purely 
 a failure of design. This boss battle isn't just poorly implemented; it's terrible from inception. 

  The game also features the more traditional shortcomings of budget games: bugs, bad graphics, and 
 generally crummy gameplay. At three different points during the game's five large missions, the 
 scripting broke in such a way that reloading a previous save was the only way to continue. Since 
 the game doesn't let you reload any arbitrary level and only stores one autosave and one quicksave, 
 you'll need to make hard saves at regular intervals; otherwise, you could be stuck restarting from 
 the beginning, or, more reasonably, you might give up altogether.  

  The game's visuals -- powered by Lithtech's Jupiter engine -- are bland and repetitive, which is pretty 
 much to be expected in a value-priced shooter. Unexpectedly, a good half of the game takes place 
 in areas so dark that you'll need to use night vision the entire time. The uniform green lighting 
 makes the scenery even more monotonous.  

  Enemy AI is weak. Soldiers often have no reaction to the exploding heads of people standing right 
 next to them. In a game almost exclusively focused on long-distance sniping, this is a real problem 
 since it tends to make the majority of your targets sitting ducks. The marine spotter who accompanies 
 you throughout the entire game isn't a very good soldier either. Though he's armed, he's not much 
 use in a fight. He'll fire off a few rounds, but generally he won't hit anything. He mainly acts 
 as a sort of traveling minstrel, providing periodic exposition about your next task. On the plus 
 side, he's much less fragile than he was in the original Marine Sharpshooter, which is a good thing 
 since the game ends if he dies. In fact, you'll often find him exchanging ineffective gunfire with 
 an enemy while the two of them stand straight up three feet away from each other.  

          Pistol hunting in the game's best level.     

  For what it's worth, the voice acting 
 isn't too bad, though the rest of the sound audio is pretty weak. And the idea of a game in which 
 you're armed only with a pistol and sniper rifle is a good one. In fact, the game's second mission, 
 a battle through the streets of Burundi's capital city, is sporadically exciting. It takes place 
 during the day, the enemies seem a little smarter, and the urban architecture with its large open 
 streets bordered by lots of nooks and alleys complements the methodical sniping style of gameplay. 

  No multiplayer modes are included, so there isn't any reason to play Marine Sharpshooter II again 
 once you've finished the single-player campaign. Actually, there isn't much reason to continue 
 playing once you've finished the second, kind-of-good mission. And honestly, there isn't much reason 
 to even do that. Still, there's a germ of a good idea here. Maybe Jarhead will nail it in the next 
 installment.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 1, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  The impenetrable bushes really, really got to me.
  
  I mean, really. In a way that completely belied my normally mellow demeanor. Like, pushing back 
 from the chair and pacing around the room in a huff: that sort of irate. I cant count the number 
 of times I drew a perfect bead on a raggedy militiamans bean (and every shot counts on the most 
 difficult level) only to have a wad of LEAVES pack the shot. I dont subscribe to the everything 
 sucks attitude dubbed by various Internet comedy goons as Nerd Rage, whereby every flub and glitch 
 that surfaces in a piece of software warrants an apoplectic, flame-tastic fit, but I really would 
 like to know more about those doggone bushes. Is it really that hard to create foliage with an 
 established, well-made licensed game engine like Jupiter (having played quite a few FPSs in my 
 time  just about all of them, in fact  Ill admit that Ive never so much as toyed with a construction 
 kit, so I really dont know) ? Is this something that an extra day or week in production mightve 
 fixed? Am I just ignorant and didnt know that Burundi actually does have brick-hard shrubs scattered 
 about (Wiki wont say one way or the other) ?
  
  I realize that Im going on a bit, but some of those blocked shots were sweetly advantageous and 
 really essential on the Hard setting. As in the first game of the MS series, my spotter was far 
 less likely to point out the preternaturally accurate mercs before I saw them emerge from the hazy 
 distance, especially their tree-borne snipers. Gameplay consists of rushing forward (there was 
 no way I was going to creep along like a real infiltrator would) until my eye caught some movement, 
 dropping to a knee, popping some skulls -- which, really, never gets old for me, so I did get some 
 kicks from the target practice  and moving on. Occasional ambushes were laid out to put me at 
 a distinct disadvantage, since my spotter often forgot where the trigger on his own gun was located 
 and my own rifle was unwieldy at close range. I grew accustomed to the wild inaccuracy of my only 
 backup weapon (sure, there was a knife; I managed to stealthily hamstring at least one aggressor 
 with it, but kept it sheathed otherwise) for those occasionsand still those ironwood shrubs thwarted 
 me, sometimes nullifying a nearly point-blank brain aeration.
  
  MS2s scenery  always the biggest draw for me in any video game  was drab but decorated with 
 a bountiful harvest of jungle flora, at least some of which was perforable. Character animation 
 was uniformly unremarkable and wooden, but I dont really boot up a Groove game expecting to marvel 
 at the poetry of motion. I just wanted to shoot some stuff, and I did so often and well. A quick 
 hours worth of headshots before bed, and Im a pretty happy guy. Pity that the quality of MS2 
 was actually a step down  in terms of combat scenarios and the number of times I found myself 
 genuinely enjoying each series of events  from its predecessor. The original MS was no Call of 
 Duty, to be sure, but Id readily dub it a top-tier budget title in comparison to the competition 
 within its own category.
  
  Overall, MS2 was about as fun as plinking away at some bottles and cans in the backyard with a 
 BB gun: mildly diversionary, with the only real thrills stemming from small, quick bursts of frustration 
 and fury over those blocked shots. Which reminds me that the hedges and trees around my own home 
 are due for some pruning. Thankfully, I live in Georgia, where our underbrush doesnt require a 
 hammer and chisel for a trim, and anyone hiding behind a bush is still fair game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mehfuz
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 25, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Marine Sharpshooter II: Jungle Warfare brought by Groove Games.
  You have to restraint a group of rebels in the place so called Burundi. The main goal of this game 
 is to rescue the president ndayizeze and kill the rebel leader kurume. The game has 14 levels divided 
 into four episodes. Each level is well designed but very much similar to each other. First 6 levels 
 are so much similar that its seemed to be rambling at the same place. Graphics are really back 
 dated. Game's music is o. k. Enemy A. I. is poor. you can carry three weapons-sniper rifle (the main 
 weapon) , pistol (silent) and a knife. The most important thing of the game is the night-glass. Some 
 levels are so dark that it is impossible to see anything without it. It is very frustrating to 
 play this type of game. So another flop game by jarhead & groove games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vietnamgamer
Rating: 1.6
Date: Jan 1, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Marine SharpShooter II: Jungle Warfare. Okay the title sounds innovative, but when you spend the 
 $10.00 to get the game, you know something's wrong. Luckily my friend gave it to me for free, and 
 now I know why. Jarhead Games actually did make the sequel a little bit tidier this time by allowing 
 you to tell the difference between the environment, and your enemies. Alright, your spotter must 
 have taken an IQ test and found out he needs to redo grade school, so he gained a little bit of 
 intelligence, and will now move from left to right to get a clear shot at the incoming hostiles, 
 despite the first game, if you told him to engage, he would get ten feet in front of the enemy, 
 then unload on him, miss with every single round, and get killed, which would fail the mission. 
 Now he uses a sniper rifle, and will actually quote unquote "Hit" the target, most of the time. 
 Your enemies now travel in groups, but when you shoot one of them, the just run a few feet stop, 
 look around, then just continue walking, then you just keep picking them off. Or when you shoot 
 one of their friends, they'll just simple run over to their friend, crouch down, check their pulse, 
 stand up, and stay there. You barely have too move your scope to kill both of them. They really 
 screwed up on this one too. Well once again like the last review, this game was yet another waste 
 of your life, and money. So word of advice, don't get this game, unless you liked the first game, 
 this is maybe for you. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
