-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Martian Gothic: Unification
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/martiangothicunification/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 25, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.6
Critic Score: 5.9, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 41 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: TalonSoft
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Apr 30, 2000
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's a missed opportunity for those hoping for a good blend of action and adventure elements.

 Martian Gothic: Unification is a third-person action-adventure game that's highly reminiscent of 
 games like Alone in the Dark and Resident Evil, both of which established the popular survival-horror 
 subgenre. As such, Martian Gothic must adhere to two basic rules, just like any good copy of a 
 successful game. First, it must reiterate the best elements from the original - the stuff players 
 like and expect from the genre. And second, it must innovate and push these conventions in enough 
 unprecedented ways to keep the experience challenging and unpredictable.   

  Martian Gothic actually does a fine job on the second rule by infusing the often-simplistic survival-horror 
 genre with more substantial puzzle-solving. But unfortunately, it fails to deliver the simple but 
 critical pleasures of the genre's classics - good action, suspense, and tight pacing. In striving 
 to emulate the success of those games, Martian Gothic gets it about half right. For every welcome 
 addition it brings to the genre, it never quite executes the feature well enough, or it otherwise 
 neglects some other critical gameplay element.   

  While some of Martian Gothic's gameplay is the genre's standard third-person shoot-the-zombie fare, 
 the game also attempts to have a hard science-fiction sensibility. Extrapolating from the controversial 
 reports that scientists discovered microfossils on a Martian meteor in 1996, the game's story takes 
 place on a manned base on Mars in 2009. When communications with the base mysteriously cease, a 
 search-and-rescue team sets out. Following the base's last cryptic warning to any possible rescuers 
 ("Stay alone") , your three characters, Karne, Kenzo, and Matlock, search the base separately as 
 they swap objects they find via vacuum tubes around the halls in order to solve the game's many 
 puzzles. In addition to its interesting puzzles, another one of Martian Gothic's good features 
 is that it lets you switch between the three characters at will. Kenzo may have to saw off a dead 
 zombie's body part in order to vac-tube it to Matlock so she can solve a puzzle in another area 
 of the base.   

  Most survival-horror games are more shooting than solving, but Martian Gothic moves the genre decisively 
 into the adventure category by letting each character hold 18 items at a time, all of which are 
 needed to get beyond the usual assortment of broken machines and locked doors. In fact, since your 
 team can be collectively carrying more than 40 objects at a time, the puzzles in Martian Gothic 
 can be daunting. The game might stump you at several points, which could get frustrating. But at 
 its best moments, when you're assembling several obscure items to fix a computer or to revive some 
 lab equipment, Martian Gothic is effective and enjoyable.   

  Unfortunately, most of the puzzles lack variety. They often involve finding pass codes or colored 
 passkeys. The pace picks up only in the final stages (you need a rainbow-colored key by then) , 
 when some of the stranger items you've been lugging since early in the adventure come into play, 
 and the mystery of the dead base finally unravels.   

  Adventure gamers may not be thrilled at the prospect of frequent combat sequences, but even fans 
 of the genre's action elements will find Martian Gothic's execution of the action cumbersome. Best 
 suited for control with a gamepad, your polygonal character in Martian Gothic walks, runs, aims, 
 and shoots with all the poise and flexibility of a $10 action figure. Your character can't even 
 crouch or quickly turn around. As in Resident Evil, your character gets into firing position and 
 then simply spins in place very slowly as he switches targets, often so slowly that a zombie will 
 have ample time to glom on to his neck and let spew geysers of survival-horror blood out of his 
 jugular.   

  Slow-moving zombies litter the rooms and halls, and they require five or six rounds to take down. 
 Later in the game, crablike monsters will fuse with your face if you aren't careful. Martian Gothic 
 tries to add kicking, grapple-break, and side-leap moves, but none are well implemented. The kick 
 is thoroughly ineffective, while most of the settings are too cramped for evasive maneuvers anyway. 
 And the zombies regenerate relentlessly, making them seem like gratuitous obstacles. What's worse 
 is that the game's controls are as sluggish as the characters.   

  Since its action is uninspired and isn't suspenseful, Martian Gothic relies entirely on its puzzle-solving 
 elements. Aside from getting bits of the story through recorded messages from the dead crew, you 
 find very little story progression until the last quarter of the game when one member of the landing 
 party finally descends briefly into an alien area beneath the Martian surface. But for the most 
 part, the game's cutscenes are few and far between, as are its plot twists or surprising perils. 
 Given the clunky mechanics, it's probably best that there aren't any battles with boss monsters 
 in Martian Gothic.   

  That might be because about two-thirds of the gameplay occurs in the areas on the space station 
 that the three characters opened up early in the adventure, so far too much of the action involves 
 finding and swapping articles among static, uninteresting sets. While the 2D backgrounds are nicely 
 detailed, it seems that little imagination went into their design beyond painting the walls with 
 blood. In games such as Martian Gothic, each new area ought to reveal something odd and interesting. 
 But in spite of its poor pacing, at least the game's voice-acting and dialogue are a cut above 
 the genre. The taped diaries of the dead base inhabitants have strong character detail and nuance, 
 and they alone compel you to keep finding those passkeys. An uppity computer, aptly named MOOD, 
 provides a nice break from the tedium of hunting and gathering as well.   

  For adventure gamers, who don't have much to choose from in the current market, Martian Gothic 
 is just competent enough to tide them over. However, Martian Gothic is a missed opportunity for 
 those hoping for a good blend of action and adventure elements, let alone a revision of survival-horror 
 conventions. The designers seem to have started with a few good ideas, such as multiple characters 
 and more complex and satisfying puzzles, but they drove these ideas into the ground rather than 
 mix them into a balanced and fully satisfying gaming experience.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: bluesteelMeGaSE
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 20, 2007 10:04 am PT
Review:  Martian Gothic: Unification for the PC platform is a missed opportunity from the developers to 
 take on the Survival Horror giants Resident Evil and Silent Hill. It's a lowly effort in many ways, 
 as it has so many flaws aside from it's few strengths. To begin with, let's outline the flaws, 
 as there's a warning for any purchasers of the game included in this area. The first flaw, and 
 you'll notice it upon installation, is that it WILL NOT INSTALL ON ANY PC PLATFORM THAT ISN'T WINDOWS 
 95 OR 98 (first edition) . If you just bought this game, or you bought it but you have a newer system, 
 and you want to install this game, don't look for anything good out of it. It simply will not work. 
 Now, the error seems to change slightly from system to system, but it generally involves a message 
 along the likes of data3. cab missing. Since that file doesn't even exist in the CD contents, it's 
 obvious that you are stuck with having to play this on an older PC platform. The only possible 
 solution to playing this game on a newer platform is by downloading the game off the internet. 
 I'm going to do this myself, as of this writing, in a while so wish me luck (and it goes back to 
 you) .
  
  Another flaw is in some gameplay elements. While there are unique features to it, like an innovative 
 character selection system, a vac tube item swap feature, the necessity to keep characters away 
 from each other, and some interesting puzzles, it suffers from a lot of sluggishness. Your character 
 moves both terribly slowly and reacts slowly. Controls may be awkward for some, and you may be 
 baffled at the way your character runs (they all run the same) . The weapons are either weak or 
 unbelievable, and to ice the cake, they have unbelievable names or uses. The 'Piccolo', for example, 
 is perhaps the worst first level pistol in the genre, and the worst I have ever seen; it's totally 
 underpowered, holds only 6 shots, and because of another flaw I will also mention, it's practically 
 useless but you're forced to use it anyway. There is also a necessary weapon in the game, the Flaregun, 
 that only does damage to one type of enemy, which is disappointing considering it's potential for 
 destruction. Aside from those two and all but two of the other weapons, the weapons in this game 
 are only a minor element of the game to help strengthen it's action department.
  
  The enemies could be better. The non-dead (this game's way of saying Zombie ) is an obstacle rather 
 than an enemy. Instead of being a threat to you, they get in your way. They come right back up, 
 apparently unhindered, and go at you again. This repeats itself throughout the entire game. No 
 weapon does anything to stop it; they just keep coming and coming. While a resurrection feature 
 would have been nice in the first place, the way this game does it is bad because it doesn't stop. 
 You should be able to destroy these enemies completely. There's also a very large, and to some, 
 creepy enemy called the TriMorph; three unfortunate individuals clumped together into one big, 
 ugly mess. They're invincible to all but one weapon mentioned above, and once they get into contact 
 with your characters, they kill you, so there's no way to resist an attack. Like the non-dead, 
 they are also an obstacle throughout the game. Unlike the non-dead, they can be threatening to 
 your progress as they may chase you down a corridor or other place. However, the flaw in this enemy 
 is that it is a bit too ghoulish looking to be truly riveting. There's one last enemy that is an 
 'offspring' of the TriMorph, and this enemy is more a nuisance or an excuse to run than a threat 
 or an obstacle. A better enemy roster would have been nice for this game, might I add.
  
  Graphically, the game is a mixed bag. The backgrounds are pretty, and help boost the atmospheric 
 touch the game is aiming for; objects are scattered among the floors and walls, helping create 
 a mood of despair or chaos; the rooms have a retro-deco look to them, and the underground area 
 is fairly interesting. However as redeeming as the backgrounds may be, the modeling isn't. Your 
 characters look worse than the ones present in the first Resident Evil; they're blocky, poorly 
 drawn, and have few distinct features to either of them. Your enemies suffer similarly; every non-dead 
 in the game looks the same, and they look more like Halloween decorations than zombies, and TriMorphs 
 look like big, red/brown uglies, along with a similar suffering by your playable characters. The 
 interface isn't all that pleasing either. It has only two colors in the whole screen, other than 
 the two option buttons. The audio is an impressive feat. The music throughout consists of wind 
 music, or orchestrated pieces that are laced with all-out creepiness. Your characters have a fair 
 amount of dialogue, even though they usually speak to themselves rather than to other characters. 
 You'll get an audio cue when your character is attacked by the non-dead. Like a handful of other 
 games in the genre, the story is boosted by the presence of audio logs by the recently deceased 
 base members. These are, at times, interesting or dull. In a few places, you'll hear loud, animal-like 
 growls from the TriMorphs (a notable area where this is present is in a corridor near one of your 
 character's starting positions) . In total, each audio effect helps build the game's tension, or 
 atmosphere rather. That is to say, the story of the game is both confusing and interesting. While 
 it is robust in many ways, and has a nice change from the usual settings of other games in the 
 genre (the only game of it's kind to be placed on Mars, to be so kind) , there's a lot more in the 
 way of plot developments rather than presentation that prove to confuse the player more than help 
 the player understand it. There's almost too much being thrown at you during the course of the 
 game. The script is written by the science-fiction author Stephen Marley, so you know that it is 
 going to be at least decent.
  
  As a result, Martian Gothic has a few ups (story, audio, and a few gameplay elements) but many 
 more downs. It had a lot of potential, but it failed to impress in the end. A remake would be a 
 neat idea, with remedies for the things that it failed doing, and some new/replaced elements for 
 good measure. Until that is even considered anywhere, you'll have to make do with this game at 
 hand. PC notes: Get the patch for this game before even playing, if you're lucky to be able to. 
 Without the patch, there is at least one instance in the game that can stop your progress completely 
 and repeatedly; the patch fixes this of course. Also, as mentioned in the beginning, you can probably 
 play this game if you have a newer edition of Windows by downloading it off the internet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akhorahill
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 17, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  Martian Gothic takes place in an abandoned Martian base name Vita. Human scientists were conducting 
 a series of analysis on an ancient site of a long gone Martian civilization and stumbled upon an 
 old undying organism, capable of infecting humans. The result of that infection is a zombie like 
 creature that's telepathically linked to a superior entity, old as Mars itself.
  You play the game as three members of a rescue team sent to investigate Vita Base after many failed 
 attempts to reach communication.
  One of the interesting game play ideas of Martian Gothic is that it allows you to control any of 
 the three characters of the rescue team. You get to play with one team member at a time but you 
 can switch between all three on the fly. The game play is essentially the same, the only differences 
 between the characters are their personalities and the fact that some puzzles require a specific 
 character to solve, again, that's tied to their background rather than any difference in game play.
 
  Initially, all the zombies are in an dormant state so you'll have plenty of time to search the 
 base for a weapon, read the logs and notes they left behind and understand a bit of the story before 
 the zombies start to wake up and try to eat you.
  The audio logs left behind by the now dead crew tell the whole story of the game, one bit at a 
 time, and provide a very solid background for your characters and the game itself. One can also 
 find interesting info about the game on Vita's computers throughout the base.
  The interaction with the background is where the game shines. Each character has a distinct personality 
 that comes into play every time they examine or read a log.
  The Martian entity in control of the zombies has strong psychic abilities and so do some of its 
 off spring. Ghosts are not unusual and are awesome as storytelling ideas but they're not so hot 
 as enemies.
  Yeah, that's the major thing in Martian Gothic. It provides you an unique setting, good characters 
 and a solid plot but there are numerous game play flaws.
  First, the game has three or four major bugs that deliver a blue screen of death right to your 
 desktop. I had to patch the game twice to make it work.
  Second, the game's hard. There's a tight limit on the number of saves and you're given a limited 
 ammo versus enemies that endlessly re-spawn. It's tougher on you on the initial 25% of the game 
 as its hard to figure out what to do without backtracking - and meeting the very same zombies over 
 and over. So, Martian Gothic will require you to waste one or two attempts to figure out what to 
 do and then reload at an early state to spend the lowest amount of ammo possible.
  Third, you die easily. Health items are few and far between at first and even after you learn how 
 to produce them, the ingredients are limited and not abundant, the same can be said about serum.
 
  Fourth, instant deaths are common. Instant deaths + limited saves = repetition and I dare say 
 a bit of frustration.
  The puzzles in itself are original and interesting, sometimes requiring the combined efforts of 
 two characters and usually involves more than simply trying out every item until you find out the 
 correct one. It should be noted that the game tend to use unorthodox items - a severed head, a 
 hand obtained by using a saw on a corpse - for its puzzles. Combat is somewhat repetitive - just 
 shoot whatever moves - until the end of the game and there are no boss fights, except for a few 
 encounters with the Trimorphs, a superior breed of zombies. The story was interesting enough to 
 keep me hooked until the very end, there's plenty of content and it's all worth reading. More than 
 just providing clues, they provided a rich and engrossing background.
  The game can be frustrating at times but the power of its background will probably make you endure 
 its flaws until the very end. It has a distinguished and unique setting with the right amount of 
 gore and an unorthodox approach to puzzles.
  If you think a good plot can overcome some flaws and you're someone that can notice a good idea 
 even when its somehow poorly executed, then Martian Gothic is THE game for you. If you're bothered 
 by repetition and if a bad execution overshadows a good idea, then stay away from the game.
  I myself can't help to think why many of its ideas haven't been used by some of the survival horror 
 games that came after it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombie44
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 14, 2007 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Martian Gothic: Unification is an interesting story, but a semi retarded gaming experience. A game 
 that despite it's crappiness, actually sticks to you for a while.
  
  The Story:
  
  The story resembles Doom 3, in more than one respect, involving a human developed base formed on 
 the planet Mars. Underground excavations are being conducted, until those in the facility discover 
 an extraterrestrial artifact that unleashes a bunch of ghosts, turning those into mindless zombies, 
 weird giant beasts that come out of the ceiling, and something else that I can't remember currently. 
 Anyways a distress signal is sent from Mars to Earth, asking for no one to come here. Instead, 
 the planet Earth decides to send a three man rescue team to find out what happened. Thus the lines, 
 Stay alone, stay alive become important to the game, although I'm not necessarily sure why.
  
  The plot twists aren't very shocking, but the overall premise is interesting.
  
  9/10
 
  
  The Graphics:
  
  The graphics are rudimentary, pitiful, and retarded. Running looks like quick walking, most character 
 models have rectangular heads, the backgrounds are much like the early Resident Evil for Playstation. 
 The third person limited view point is interesting, if not a direct rip off of RE, but also like 
 RE, it proves very, VERY inconvenient when running around that corner to see that one zombie sitting 
 there waiting for you. Almost everything surrounding wise is pre-rendered, and movement seems extremely 
 clunky. Unfortunately, the graphics make it very easy to run into an enemy, as you are occasionally 
 dragged five feet into the arms of a zombie against your will.
  
  5/10
  
  The Sound:
  
  The sound is muffled. Some things are interesting, such as the pop gun which absolutely has 
 no use in the game. The voice acting is generic, which makes for some funny sounding pronunciation 
 of certain English words. The tapes left behind by those that once inhabited the base are decent, 
 in fact, dare I say it, interesting, but the music most of the time sucks. When you first enter 
 the base, the echoes of the ghosts in the halls can be heard.... probably the only thing that is 
 remotely good. I wasn't too disappointed by the theme song at the title screen either, but otherwise 
 the sound is not impressive. 4/10
  
  The Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay is much like Resident Evil. You have your third person view, limited inventory, things 
 that you start out with that have no use whatsoever, and the clunky attempts to escape from an 
 enemy. This game doesn't feature an auto-aim, making precise shooting difficult at some points 
 in the game. A nice, notable thing about aiming though is that you can move while aiming, instead 
 of staying stationary. The zombies are difficult to get around, dropping your health and brainwave 
 activity much lower than you need it to be. Once you get caught, it can be difficult to get away 
 from the situation, especially when you have a task list giving you tons of options to do with 
 seemingly random objects. These include opening a door. Apparently you can talk about what kind 
 of lock it is. Why?
  
  There is a sense of satire in the game, including you looking through computers, reading history 
 of the base, the excavations, and listening to more tapes. The save system is cleverly disguised 
 as a videogame on the computer, unfortunately the PS version not allowing you to play it. There 
 is a funny commentary track under it however, not that funny, but interesting. Most doors around 
 the building are locked. Most require a certain colored card key to open, usually found on a zombie, 
 or a locker. This can be immediately difficult since I have trouble running back and forth. Now 
 there are three characters you can play as and switch to at any time. It's like playing three different, 
 but equally as boring and difficult games. When you do switch however, you'll want to make sure 
 your last character is in some room without an enemy, because if one of the three die, the game 
 is over. I almost forgot to mention in the story that a woman narrator explains how three will 
 come, but only two will leave. I think it's okay to get one killed then. Yet no, the game wants 
 you to do it the way it sees it. Your inventory is limited, you'll find the occasional locker, 
 much like the chest from RE, around the base to dump most of your useless crap in, such as a deflated 
 balloon, a weapon that you will never find ammo for, and satsumi, something that one member brought 
 with them. It apparently tastes crappy as he described it.
  
  To transport items to each other, you use vacuum tubes also found around the base, with around 
 5 enemies blocking it. Dodging is not easy in this, and if you are good at it, you should definently 
 award yourself with an Xbox 360. You have truely mastered a decently crappy game. If any of the 
 three members wind up in the same room at the same time, or even the same hallway at the same time, 
 the game will end for some unknown reason. I don't really understand this. It's a little too much 
 for a simple game.
  
  5/10
  
  Finally...
  
  The game is different. The story can draw you in if you're into that kind of stuff, but the gameplay 
 will slowly push you out. I remember being scared of this game, solely because it was so difficult 
 to get away from a zombie. Now, it's just stupid and way too hard to beat with it's very glitchy 
 gameplay. Is it worth it? Only if you're planning on not playing anymore games forever. This one 
 will help you keep your promise. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
