-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Marvel: Ultimate Alliance
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/marvelultimatealliance/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Huge, eclectic cast of Marvel heroes and villains.
 deep, yet largely optional character-customization system.
 great variety of environments.
 seamless local and online co-op play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Presentation a little technically uneven.
 some customization options seem contradictory.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 30, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 8.3, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 1,305 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Raven Software
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date:     Oct 24, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Raven improves upon the great work it did with the X-Men Legends games, with a lengthy adventure 
 that touches nearly every last corner of the Marvel Universe. 

  In 2004, Raven Software surprised a lot of people with X-Men Legends, an action role-playing game 
 focusing on the exploits of Marvel's mutant superheroes. The Diablo-style gameplay was a significant 
 departure for Raven, a developer best known for its extensive work on first-person shooters. Perhaps 
 more surprising was the game's success in introducing action RPG conventions to the world of superheroes, 
 a fairly novel combination at the time. It proved to be a winning formula, one that Raven further 
 refined with last year's X-Men Legends II: Rise of Apocalypse. Not content with the localized struggles 
 of the X-Men, the concept has been blown out to an intergalactic, interdimensional scale with Marvel: 
 Ultimate Alliance. With more than 20 unique playable heroes; a massive campaign that features a 
 wide variety of well-known Marvel Universe villains, supporting characters, and locations; and 
 plenty of hidden extras, it's the biggest piece of Marvel fan service seen in a video game. It 
 also builds upon a lot of the gameplay systems established in the X-Men Legends games, making for 
 an experience that's deeper, longer lasting, and generally more satisfying.  

          The stars of the world's greatest comics join forces in Marvel: Ultimate Alliance.     
 

  Ominous deeds are afoot right from the start in Marvel: Ultimate Alliance. Dr. Doom has brought 
 together a coalition of supervillains under the Masters of Evil name, whose first act is to attack 
 a S. H. I. E. L. D. helicarrier. An opposing coalition of superheroes quickly comes to the aid of S. H. I. E. L. D. 
 director Nick Fury, who takes command of the situation and coordinates the superheroes as they 
 continue to track Doom and his minions across the universe and into different dimensions. The sheer 
 quantity of Marvel supervillains you'll face on your quest to defeat Dr. Doom is genuinely staggering. 
 Heavy hitters like Ultron, the Mandarin, Mephisto, Loki, and Galactus all play major roles, but 
 there's still room for lower-profile villains like M. O. D. O. K., Fin Fang Foom, Arcade, Grey Gargoyle, 
 Blackheart, Super Skrull, and literally dozens of others. There are a couple of truly excellent 
 twists and turns, and the story does a good job of concealing the true nature of Dr. Doom's plans 
 until just the right moment. Some of the finer points, such as the excess of long-winded expository 
 speeches in between levels, don't stand up to close scrutiny so well, but the narrative is successful 
 in keeping the game moving at a fast clip.  

  Your starting lineup in Marvel: Ultimate Alliance consists of Captain America, Thor, Spider-Man, 
 and Wolverine, but after a few levels playing with these heroes, you're given the option to create 
 your own custom team. At first you'll have about 18 different heroes to choose from, and they represent 
 a good cross-section of high-profile heroes and more obscure fan favorites. Old-schoolers like 
 the Fantastic Four, Iron Man, and several X-Men are there, as are a number of heroes who are likely 
 unknown to those who don't keep up with comics, such as Moon Knight, Luke Cage, Spider-Woman, and 
 Deadpool. As you progress you'll run into other heroes such as Blade, Dr. Strange, Ghost Rider, 
 and the Silver Surfer, who will in turn join the cause. Part of the fun of Marvel: Ultimate Alliance 
 is the sheer variety of places the game takes you. While the X-Men Legends games seemed stuck mostly 
 in dungeonlike corridors and sewers and such, here you'll visit some of the most spectacular and 
 mythical locations in the Marvel Universe, including Mephisto's Realm, Asgard, Mandarin's palace, 
 the Skrull homeworld, and, finally, Dr. Doom's sinister Latverian castle. Many of the environments 
 really do look as if they came straight out of a comic book.  

          Character customization runs deep, though you can choose to automate it if it's too much 
 for you.     

  The basics of the gameplay should be perfectly familiar by now to fans of hack-and-slash dungeon 
 crawlers like Diablo, Baldur's Gate: Dark Alliance, or Raven's own X-Men Legends games. Commanding 
 a group of four superheroes, you'll fight your way through swarms of enemies, becoming more powerful 
 and gaining new abilities and the occasional piece of gear along the way. From the get-go, everyone 
 can perform a handful of straight-up melee combos. There are a few details that give the basic 
 combat some depth beyond simple button mashing, such as the ability to disarm enemies and grapple 
 with them and enemies that are only susceptible to specific attacks. Each hero has a unique set 
 of special powers, and these special powers, along with, for example, the ability of flight when 
 appropriate, play a big part in giving each hero a unique feel. As different as the abilities can 
 look and feel, most can be easily slotted into a handful of categories. There are melee attacks, 
 radial attacks, projectile attacks, beam attacks, individual and team boosts, and high-powered 
 "xtreme" attacks that you can only trigger after your usually slow-filling momentum meter reaches 
 capacity. Save for the Silver Surfer, who seems stymied by the terranean nature of the gameplay, 
 the heroes feel quite comparable to their ink-and-paper counterparts.  

  Though you have little control over how your heroes' basic stats (like health and energy) increase, 
 with each new level you're given skill points that you can put toward special powers. Each hero 
 has eight or more special powers in an arsenal, though many of them are inaccessible until you 
 reach certain experience plateaus. You can also use cold, hard cash that you pick up by beating 
 enemies and smashing crates to purchase points, though they start off pricey and become exponentially 
 more so as you progress. Each hero also has three alternate costumes that you can unlock, which 
 not only can drastically affect the hero's appearance, but also come with a unique set of bonuses 
 that you can pay to increase. Defeating significant villains and finding special treasure chests 
 will usually net you a piece of performance-enhancing equipment. Usually any hero can use any gear 
 you happen upon, though it never shows up on their person, and there are also lots of rare pieces 
 of gear that only specific heroes can use.     

  It would seem that there would be a bit of a conundrum in having an RPG-style experience system 
 with such a huge cast of characters. You'd think that any hero who isn't constantly a part of your 
 active team would become useless after the first level. Marvel: Ultimate Alliance addresses this 
 smartly by artificially increasing the experience levels of nonactive heroes as your active team 
 progresses. Nonactive heroes will usually be about one full experience level behind your active 
 heroes, which is just enough that, should you choose to swap in a hero that you haven't used before, 
 they'll still be tough enough to keep up. Perhaps most interesting about the whole hero customization 
 system in Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is the fact that few of your choices are permanent. Though 
 you can't take back any money spent, any skill points you've earned or purchased can be redistributed 
 to different special powers at the drop of a hat. Additionally, if all of this talk of skill points 
 and team boosts seems boring or confusing to you and you're just interested in beating up lots 
 of bad guys, you'll love that the game handles all character customization by default.  

          Who you choose as teammates can earn you unique performance enhancements.     

  Beyond 
 the individual heroes, the actual team building plays an interesting role in Marvel: Ultimate Alliance. 
 When you're initially given the choice to create a team, you can either pick a prefab group such 
 as the Fantastic Four or the Avengers, or you can pick four heroes of your liking to create a custom 
 team. You can swap in other heroes as you please, but by playing with heroes that have been designated 
 as a part of your team, your team gains reputation points that can be used to infer specific bonuses 
 on the team. Playing with heroes who aren't designated as part of your team will reduce reputation, 
 though if you stick with your initial team of four for a while, you'll be able to add additional 
 heroes to the team. Separate from the team reputation system, who you choose for your team can 
 earn you  yet another  stat bonus. Some of them are obvious. For example, you'll get an X-Men boost 
 for playing with mutants, and a Fantastic Four bonus for playing with Mister Fantastic, Invisible 
 Woman, Human Torch, and The Thing. Alternately, if you play with, say, Captain America, Spider-Woman, 
 Luke Cage, and Spider-Man, you'll get a New Avengers bonus, while playing with all female characters 
 will earn you a Femme Fatale bonus. Juggling specific heroes' skill points, gear, and costumes, 
 as well as your team reputation points and roster-specific team bonuses, can be overwhelming at 
 times, but this also facilitates a great amount of flexibility for those who seek it.  

  The amount of crate and barrel smashing that you'll do in Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is discouraging, 
 but the game does a lot to keep the action interesting and varied. There are a few puzzles that 
 you'll have to solve while simultaneously wailing on villains, though they have a tendency to alternate 
 between painfully obvious and excessively obscured. There's no shortage of boss battles, the best 
 of which incorporate Resident Evil 4-style real-time cutscenes that prompt you to press specific 
 face buttons to successfully attack the enemy. The mechanics of these sequences are rarely difficult 
 to pull off, but they make moments like your confrontation with Galactus satisfying and memorable. 
 The game is also unafraid to indulge in the occasional gameplay tangent, which is no more apparent 
 than when you face the villain Arcade in his ominously named amusement park Murderworld. Here, 
 your heroes engage in video game and carnival activities in rather unexpected ways.  

  You can play Marvel: Ultimate Alliance by yourself, allowing the computer to pick up the slack 
 with the three heroes you're currently not controlling. You can instantly assume control of a different 
 team member, and you have access to some basic team behavior controls as well. The artificial intelligence 
 can generally hold its own, but it doesn't always listen to orders and can act a bit buggy at times. 
 For a better experience, you can have other, real-life players take control at any point for some 
 satisfying cooperative play, which holds true regardless of whether the other players are playing 
 on the same system or over the Internet.  

  Another fun distraction is the way you can earn experience points in between missions by correctly 
 answering Marvel-themed trivia questions. The trivia questions range from relative basics, like 
 which newspaper Peter Parker works for, to obscure details, like the name of Fin Fang Foom's home 
 planet. There's no time limit for answering questions, making it easy enough to hit up the Internet 
 for answers, and you'll find that you can find the answers to most questions by chatting up non-player 
 characters in the game. Still, it's a nice touch for fans to see just how much they really know 
 about comics.  

          Seamless cooperative play makes it easy for others to jump in.     

  Even if you choose 
 to ignore the numerous side missions that you'll be presented with along the way, it'll easily 
 take you a good 15 or 20 hours to play through Marvel: Ultimate Alliance, and it's a good ride 
 from start to finish. The game gives you the sense that you can affect how the story ends by certain 
 decisions you make, but these choices are usually pretty superficial and not really worth playing 
 through the entire game again for. The unlockable hard mode is much more attractive since you can 
 import the buffed-up team you already beat the game with.  

  There are four major platforms to play Marvel: Ultimate Alliance on, and the Xbox 360 is the easy 
 favorite. It features a lot of great lighting, particle, and bump-mapping effects absent from the 
 other versions. Even without those advanced graphical effects, the PC and Xbox versions still look 
 pretty sharp. The PS2 version, however, suffers from an unflattering frame rate, choppy animation, 
 and some oddly muffled sound. That last point is a particular shame, because Marvel: Ultimate Alliance 
 generally sounds pretty good. Some of the voice work is a little corny, but the action packs a 
 punch, and the surprisingly eclectic soundtrack is fantastic, capably shifting gears to keep up 
 with the game's near-constant and dramatic scenery changes.  

  Beyond being a well-made and accessible action RPG, Marvel: Ultimate Alliance captures the essence 
 of the Marvel Universe, an incredible feat considering the breadth of the source material, though 
 there are just enough omissions to easily justify a sequel. This is simply a must-have for Marvel 
 fans, though the action itself remains satisfying enough for those in search of a good dungeon 
 crawler to enjoy.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (55 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: wolerneato
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2009 5:33 pm PT
Review:  i like this game a lot. i have won it two or three times its not super hard and sorta boring if 
 you not a fan of comics. but the graphics are decent. the specials are really cool such as with 
 spider-man he has "bungee bash" where he webs a handfull of guys and smashs em together. Or characters 
 will often say cool/funny quotes like deapool will say stuff like "now im the best at whatever 
 wolverine does" or "quick someone take a picture" Or spidy says stuff like "are we battling supermodels 
 this time?". The heroes also have multiple costumes like spidy has symbiote ,classic, scarlet spider 
 and stark Armour. in my opinion the hardest part of this game is doom's castle you have to fight 
 like 2 sets of the evil fantastic four and evil captain America. all in all fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antipunt1
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 25, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  Marvel Ultimate Alliance is an easy game to review. It's basically: a good game in certain conditions. 
 I'd say its solid if you got the equipment: I had 4 ps2 to USB hooked up ready to go with 4 very 
 eager people to have a college blast. In those circumstances, this game is golden. We played and 
 played and played, unable to stop.
  
  But why only an average score. Because its only an average game. After a couple months I played 
 this game with one of my other friends. It was only us 2, and no one else. In this circumstance, 
 we almost fell asleep. Same happened two nights earlier when I played with my brother. We almost 
 dozed off. Honestly this game is HORRIBLE in certain conditions: AKA when you aren't in the party 
 scene.
  
  But I guess who would play Mario Party alone right? Basically this game is very hit or miss depending 
 on the situation. The overall med-high score reflects what it is capable of in the right conditions: 
 awesome, long-lasting fun. However, at the same time, it is nothing more than a pretty good looking, 
 decently fun, multiplayer game. If you are alone or with only one friend, the fun appeal lasts 
 very short, like chewing gum that loses its flavor over time. 
  
  A pretty good game for that party all-nighter at the dorm or with your friends. But pretty cruddy 
 if you're looking for a deep game with good story. Think: Dynasty Warriors made well, because honestly 
 thats kind of like what it is. Oh yea, AND with GOOD cut-scenes and voice acting.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gartak
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 29, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Although the cinematics are nice to watch the game itself gave me a nasty taste in my mouth right 
 from the start. You get thrown in the game instantly with only a few text messages about the basic 
 controls wich you will have to read while you try to combat the foes. I say try because thats its 
 almost impossible to play decently with a mouse and keyboard, it absolutely needs a gamepad to 
 be even remotely fun. That being said the game itselfs offers hardly anything new in the genre, 
 its just more of the same. 
  If you are a fan of anything marvel related this could probably be enjoyable for you, fans could 
 atleast find some satisfaction in playing their favorite super hero but other than that there isnt 
 much good to say about this game.
  Avoid this game on the PC, get it for your xbox, its probably a nice game for that machine. But 
 even then, wait for it to turn up in the bargain bin.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  this game was.... no... this game "is" the best game of marvel, you cant ask for more, alot of 
 superheroes from marvel are here in one game, and this game was simply awsome i finished 3 times 
 but it got some problems
  lets start over:
  
  graphics: mm not bad... even good no its pretty an OK graphic,
  the super heroes are looking 
 good (spiderman, GHOST RIDER, more...)
  and thats it, the graphic is really nice
  
  super heroes: so here is the first problems... where is THE HULK? PUNISHER? CYCLOP? alot of really 
 good MARVEL super heroes arent in the game... those super heroes are included in the XBOX version 
 of the game so thats kinda bad...
  
  gameplay: to short!! that game was way to short in the XBOX version its longer and better, but 
 the gameplay is not bad easy to play easy to poll some really awsome moves like spider webs or 
 mister fantastic ruber moves... the gameplay is really good
  
  sound: the sounds are great, great voices act and effect are good too the music is the best sound 
 of the game... and the sounds are great thats it
  
  MARVEL ULTIMATE ALLIANCE IS GREAT, it got good graphics, good sounds, good gameplay, the only problems 
 is with the super heroes and that the game is really short in the PC version...
  
  good game must buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eas022
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  If you have played X-men legends I or II, you will easier adapt to the game from the start - though 
 may find it a bit under challenging. I think the game was made simpler in gameplay and possibly 
 the soundtrack/story to cater to a younger bunch.
  
  The game features a huge roster of marvel heroes, particularly some notable heroes who have their 
 own movie (Elektra, Dare Devil, Blade) . Ghost Rider the movie came out a little after the game 
 did but after watching the movie - I realised that the voice for the game sucked compared to the 
 voice of Ghost Rider in the movie. But apart from Ghost Rider, the voice acting was very good. 
 I think a better job was done in X-men Legends II (especially for Colossus's voice) but overall 
 it was very good.
  
  I expected more from the graphics dept. for the ridiculously high specs required for the game. 
 You can still play the game on average machines but the frame rate has to be reduced and the graphics 
 settings have to be toned down to the minimum. Scenes with fire or a lot of characters really slowed 
 down the fps rate. Nevertheless, it was still better than the graphics in X-men legends. However 
 when it comes to gameplay, are you willing to trade slightly lower quality graphics for smoother 
 gameplay? I would! I enjoyed X-men Legends II for its fluidity, unlike Marvel Ultimate Alliance 
 that kept slowing down!
  
  The music was ok, but it was constant heroic music which didn't go too well with the story. The 
 overall storyline of the game was good but it is so important to get that soundtrack right. Again, 
 this might sound biased but the X-men legends II music was brilliant for the story (though it was 
 much darker which may not have gone well with younger kids) .
  
  Sound effects were average, but maybe I didn't enjoy as much because the graphics kept slowing 
 down and so the sound and visual didn't sync properly.
  
  Controls were simple in my opinion - which is a good thing! Once you set up your keys to the actions, 
 its very easy to play. 
  
  Overall, its a nice game for a marvel fan and its a well rounded game. For a non marvel fan, the 
 game would still be good to play in a multi player set up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2008 10:59 am PT
Review:  Storyline: 8 - Interesting story, not one you would typically not see from Marvel.
  Graphics/Physics: 8.5 - Graphics were very good for this style of game, shading and lighting were 
 tip top.
  Sound: 7.5 - Alright sound, some of the commentary by characters is somewhat lame but sometimes 
 very comical.
  Environment/Maps: 7 - Maps were alright throughout the game, nothing too difficult to figure out 
 puzzle wise. It was annoying that the tips would re-appear everytime you walked by the area they 
 were assigned too, this should have been fixed.
  Game Engine/Scripting: 8.5 - Development did a great job on this game and I could find very few 
 flaws in the scripting. I will definately play the next game that this development team makes.
 
  Interface: 9 - Default controls are very confusing on the PC, but with a little tweaking it's 
 very easy. Other systems controls were much easier to learn. Huge selection of heroes to play from 
 and many many villians to fight. Leveling was a cool feature due to the powers you advance or gain.
 
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 8 - Huge selection of heroes and with each lots of different gainable powers. I'm not 
 a big fan of this style of game but It proved to be fun for hours. Definately worth playing or 
 at least trying out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nesrie
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 23, 2008 11:57 pm PT
Review:  First the good. 
  
  The game looks great, and despite what some others say, doesn't need the newest machine off the 
 line to play. I know because my machine is becoming aged. Music is good, the sound affects are 
 nice. Its a nice grab bag of heroes from the marvel universe.
  
  The bad.
  
  Some effort could have been made to make the PC port better but apparently they decided to leave 
 it just as is. You're forced to have every character remain in the playing screen. This is a limitation 
 seen more with consoles, not PCs. The camera angel can become so poor at points that no one can 
 see what's going on underneath a bridge. You cannot password protect your online games. You cannot 
 name your own saves, and the multiplayer saved games save to the same 10 spots as the single player 
 making it unnecessarily difficult to keep track of two games at the same time. There are not many 
 female characters available in the game for women gamers to play, but its a good start. Hopefully 
 the next one will do better.
  
  Biggest bonus, especially as of late, no issues joining an online game. Seriously, lately its been 
 a problem for those with routers and anti-virus, firewall protection [all of which are common enough 
 now not to be a valid excuse]
  
  This game is surprisingly fun, and despite the short-comings, worth the effort to play and overlook 
 these type of annoyances.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidi1234
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  We all grew up with marvel heroes in our head. We all wanted to be one of those heroes and chances 
 are most of us got caught throwing a dumpster lid Cap style or taping knives to our hands as makeshift 
 claws. Marvel universe aside, this game vastly improves on the already great formula that was X-men 
 legends by adding many tiny improvements (like the mana orbs that fill your power allowing you 
 to make much more extensive use of powers) , more varied battlegrounds (water level is one of the 
 most innovative i've seen in a long time) and a truckload of destructive powers for every hero 
 that you choose. The campaign is fully co-op, provided you have a simple 8 axis gamepad, and its 
 in the co-op mode that the game really shines, and you are able to make all the powerful power 
 combos and gracefully beat all the tough bosses. Only bad thing i can say about this game is the 
 removal of the arena mode that i liked very much in x-men (now we cant agree on who is the best 
 hero) . Overall this is a game that is a must have for any marvel fan, and easily recommendable 
 to any gamer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cravenlevay
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 8, 2008 11:39 am PT
Review:  First the thing that ticked me off first was the shotty point of view made the game very annoying. 
 I would have thought they could of done this game justice. I must say I enjoyed the character selection 
 but the game was so linear it was insane. I wondered to myself after 5 minutes why am I playing 
 this game. I liked the idea of being Iron man and such but then it was just way too boring. Game 
 would have been cool back in maybe 1994, but that time has passed and guess the designers of this 
 game forgot the date. Graphics are very very basic. Don't get game if your a comics fan it will 
 make you cry . Up up and way to far away from anything that is worth to play. Need someone to take 
 marvel up to big game status and this is no where near close too it. Sometimes I think that the 
 people that makes the games don't actually play games their selves or they are very easily entertained 
 by say being locked in a room with a mirror. Don't buy this game avoid at all cost. Just not worth 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big Marvel fan, but trust me when I say that this review is of the game and not of the idea 
 (which by the way totally kicks candy ass) . The game play has very few differences than the X-men 
 legends series. The sad part is that you can only wear 1 item at a time. The rest is pretty much 
 the same old (hey why change what isn't broken) : a very easy and learnable game which provides 
 you with a lot of fun and stress relief. It's the kind of game-play that just makes you go on and 
 on. Best way to describe it: easy and fun. Party is still made out of four people, and special 
 combinations will give you special bonuses. In addition "My Team" option has been added: you create 
 your own team of heroes (at first only 4 members) and they will recieve bonuses. Your team will 
 level up by reputation. With each new reputation level gained you will add to your team bonus. 
 The story is quite bold in comparison to X-men Legends 1 and 2. As the X-men games could be considered 
 episodes, Ultimate Alliance clearly tries to be a main event in the Marvel Universe having more 
 than a couple of deaths in it, heroes and villain alike. It starts with Dr Doom invading the well 
 play the game and find out, I'm not about to spoil an A+ grade story. As far as sound come, the 
 voices are great (except Baron Mordo, they could have done a lot better) . Every character's voice 
 is perfect for his personality. If during the game you have a specific character in your team you 
 can witness special conversations with villains or other NPCs. Music is not that great: has a few 
 bugs :starting up when it's not suppose to at a very high level. The graphics are not something 
 special. There just enough to be nice for the game. Enough said So if you're a Marvel fan PLAY 
 THIS GAME!! If not, PLAY THIS GAME!! Kidding. This is a game that deserves your attention, and 
 I do recommend it to anyone that wants to have fun and enjoy a lot Marvel Action.
  
  P. S. Here's a tip from me to you: try and use all the upgrades on 1 single character. The rest 
 of your party has low damage and high Defence no matter what. You will be the damage dealer and 
 you will also take a lot of damage. (yes you still can switch between party members but i recomende 
 you stick to a hero) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmy_the_pipe
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 1, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  I heard a lot of good things about this game, so I decided to give it a try. This is going to be 
 confusing: the game is good, but I don't really like it. I had really high expectations, and this 
 game misses on several fronts, technically-speaking. This game is really designed for the comic 
 book fans, who look past the crust and see the core of the game. But if you're not a comic book 
 fan.. you'll be more confused than impressed, and, the technical problems will seem more apparent. 
 As well, you'll find the button-mashing gets tedious if you're not focused on the comics-aspect.
 
  
  For example, the game starts off in the middle of an aerial attack on some helicarrier. Captain 
 America, Spiderman, Wolverine, and Thor show up and start killing robots. Now, if you're like me, 
 you're wondering "WTH is Thor?". The level continues to introduce several other comic-book characters, 
 and if you're not a fan you'll be confused, wondering "Hey, who's that?" or "What's going on?" 
 (For me, that's this game in a nutshell.)
  
  Pros: 
  -Playing as Wolverine, Spiderman.
  -A whole bunch of characters to choose from, and earn costumes for, organize a unique team.
  
 -The plot is complex.
  
  Cons: 
  -This game doesn't seem to have the Skills Customization, which was something I was looking forward 
 to.
  -Bird's eye camera view can spin out of control, but even normally it's hard to tell what's going 
 on. Zoom doesn't zoom too much.
  -Levelling system is confusing and hard to operate.
  -WAY TOO MANY ITEMS! I mean, why is there so many things to destroy for money? You'll spend more 
 time doing that than fighting bad guys.
  -Dialogue seems generic and dry most of the time.
  -Too many small-time villains/heroes/characters that I've never heard of. No Mary Jane Watson.
 
  -Button mashing gets really boring after a while.
  
  *I never finished this game, it got really repetitive and I didn't care about the story enough 
 to finish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThePunisherBR
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 7:21 am PT
Review:  But the game lacks extraordinary villains in the last stage and the possibility of playing the 
 whole story with unlocked characters. This is a real turn off in this game. The game, in general, 
 is funny, but a little bit repetitive. I prefer x-men legends dynamics, although playing Marvel 
 characters is better than just playing with the x-men. 
  After this short analysis, a tip on choosing the best combinations of characters
  Very Good characters: 
 Wolverine, Iron Man, Reed Richards*, Spiderman*
  Good characters: Thor, Black Panther, Captain America, Daredevil, Nick Fury
  Average characters: 
 Deadpool, Thing, Human Torch, Ghost Rider
  Bad ones: Dr. Strange, Iceman (much better in x-men legends II) , Blade, Susan Richars, Storm
 
  Disgusting: Elektra, Spiderwoman, Captain Marvel
  * only if you know how to spend points on them, if not, they will be an average character
  Obs: 
 i have not played with silver surfer enough to evalute if the character is average or good; some 
 consider him very good (in fact, he is the most powerful, but not in the game)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DPumbliQ
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  I hesitaded when i first saw this game on 15$ a few weeks ago..... But i do not regret spending 
 those 15$ on this game, it is clearly worth it and more......
  
  The Graphics: Great, just as good, or even better then the 360 and PS3 versions of the game
  
 
  The Gameplay: Loads of playable Marvel Heroes fighting loads of famous anti super heroes, where 
 can that go wrong? The game playes similar to Baldurs Gate and Icewind Dale, but since its Marvel 
 i find it a bit more interesting
  
  The Sound: If you like hearing Deadpool and Spiderman say some stupid things you will love it, 
 or if you just like the cool comments of Wolverine and Thor you will still love it, the sound in 
 the game is great
  
  The Value: If you are a Marvel fan, your Marvel collection is not complete without this game in 
 it, even if it is missing your favorite Hero, you can just find mods for the game that have the 
 character you are looking for (The Hulk and The Punisher for examples)
  Even if you hate Marvel, you should at least rent this game..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afpabon
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2007 7:33 am PT
Review:  I'm not the walking Marvel encyclopedia I wish I was, but the only reason I wish that is so I could 
 get the most out of this real gem.
  
  The game plays even more easily than Raven's past excellent efforts (X-Men Legends 1 and 2) , and 
 the customization for each hero goes beyond simply buying powers with your level increase, to actually 
 having to decide whether to grow your heroes as a team, or improving their costumes (granted, it 
 doesn't sounds like it's a terrific way of improving them, but it's worth every single XP invested 
 here, trust me) , or actually having to buy the same powers, which now make much more sense.
  
  The cast is also very good, with all of the major Marvel superheroes and supervillians depicted 
 (even with appearances of several X-Men) , and the graphic engine was also twitched up a lot.
  
  I recommend this game for anyone, Marvel fan or not. It's just that I get the impression that, 
 were I a Marvel fan, this wouldn't get a 9 but a 10 out of me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GalacticOrigins
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  This is a great, outstanding game, and here is why. First, the Heroes are all unique. Each one 
 has different powers and a different style, not to mention that the voice acting gives each hero 
 a certain flair. Second, the game allows the player to pick and choose which Heroes to have on 
 your team. This is a very cool feature. Third, as the player you get to choose which skills to 
 power up with skill points and believe me, it makes a difference. (Do you want a Cpt. America with 
 a heavy-hitting shield ranged attack or an unbelievable short ranged assault? You could give up.)
 
  Well, forget about listing fourth, fifth, etc., because there are way too many good things 
 about this game. The sound is awesome, and the graphics even better. The missions are varied and 
 there are different styles of fighting that your many opponents will use against you, forcing you 
 to modify your own assault against them. The Villains are very many, and the cut-scenes and mission 
 briefings really make you feel like you are performing an important operation. There are also quite 
 a few different areas that you will journey to. The feeling of being stuck in a cavern or sewer 
 is not there, since some of these areas are in the wide open. The use of voice acting is done quite 
 well, since many maps will have talking allies or enemies, which makes you feel you are not just 
 playing some game.
  Some people state that the game is too repetitious. Well, arent ALL games repetitious? I mean, 
 think of the old CIV game, drop a city, build structures and some military units, deploy against 
 the enemy, on occasion choose a new technology  repeat. Game after game. This is an arcade style 
 game, and the goal is to use your chosen Super-Hero and beat up the bad guys  again and again. 
 Some other games have all sorts of different things you can do, like shoot star fighters with a 
 turret, or shoot enemy soldiers in a hangar bay (with the same turret) , or swing a light-sword, 
 all in the same game, but honestly, are they connected in any way? Do the stats of your character 
 really make a difference in such a game, a game filled with many little (seemingly unconnected) 
 mini-games? If you do not like beating up bad guys with a Super-Heros powers, again and again, 
 well, I guess you do not like comics in the first place. I love it! I want more!
  Ratings: 10 in all areas, 9 in sound
  The only reason I did not give Sound a Ten rating is because 
 the music, on occasion, turns up a little too loud and I cannot always hear the Villain talking 
 to me (case in point, Mandarin) . Still, the music is appropriate and very cool. The music varies 
 from mission to mission and battle to battle.
  The story is a good one, and even after playing this game many times through, I like it. Although 
 it is the same story, it is worth going through many times over.
  I do recommend the Game Pad for the PC version of this game; it makes a big difference.
  One 
 of the best features is the ability to form a team of Marvel Heroes from over 20 to choose from, 
 so each time through you can use different Heroes on your team (although many players generally 
 prefer a Main Character that they love) . This is an excellent game, which is fast paced, and has 
 solid voice acting (Your Friendly Neighborhood Spider-Man needs help!) . I really enjoy the middle 
 to the end of the game, since your power attacks hit hard and the enemies take a short while to 
 wade through.
  With hidden surprises, a great cast of characters, and a lot of action, I highly recommend Marvel: 
 Ultimate Alliance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 7, 2007 6:19 am PT
Review:  The biggest pleasant surprise is the graphics. If your PC can handle it, the game looks great on 
 widescreen with all affects enabled. The textures on the heroes are impressively detailed. The 
 overall look of the game is great and you can see that a lot of effort went to make the game look 
 like a comic book.
  
  The problem is the game just isnt very hard no matter what difficulty level you play at. The enemy 
 AI is entirely brain-dead. They basically either stand there or maybe they will run toward you 
 and punch you once or twice. Then your 4 team members pulverize him in 2 seconds. That's pretty 
 much the whole game for 25 hours. The bosses pose more difficulty but not much more. Its a major 
 weakness of the game. I'm not sure what Raven was thinking when they decided to include 3 modes 
 of difficulty but make the enemy AI 100% DOA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalicon
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 28, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  In the beginning I was extremely excited to start playing the game. It was great fun and I loved 
 the diverse amount of characters. The levels are thorough and touch upon various elements in the 
 marvel universe. The graphics are relatively good and the storyline is entertaining. Still... I 
 can't say it was amazing. Though it is a fabulous game to play with friends or even on your own, 
 it lacks diversity IN the characters. Though you CAN play many different characters, their abilities 
 are all quite similar and it's hard to set any characters apart for their special skills that are 
 only possessed by them. Overall this isn't the biggest deal but. it takes away from the game play. 
 If the characters were all very different in their abilities, then you would want to play the different 
 characters in order to enjoy their special qualities. Since all the character's moves are similar, 
 you won't feel as tempted to play with all of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 8
Date: May 20, 2007 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Marvel Ultimate Alliance is a cool action game for all ages . The graphics / visuals is very pleasant 
 to the eye .The environments created in the game looks cool. AI is okay. Soundquality in the game 
 is decent. The voiceacting done in the game is good. The games cutscenes rocks . In the Story mode 
 you can play with four super marvel heroes to defeat Evil Dr. Doom and his evil soldiers who are 
 bent out to destroy world .You get tons of Marvel mini bosses too to beat. The Instant button mashing 
 to defeat bosses can seem really tough at times but with patience that too becomes easy. seem You 
 can choose your four characters from 20 marvel heroes and upgrade each of their power. Become your 
 favourite legend , then interact with more than 140 characters in this epic action rpg game. You 
 get Spiderman , Wolverine , Captain America , Thor and lots of other popular Marvel comic characters 
 in the game. More you progress in the game you unlock characters , powers , cutscenes videos etc. You 
 get cooperative , competitive plus multiplayer modes in the game . I highly recommend this game 
 to action lovers . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pruker
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 28, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  The Good - New all time marvel favourite heroes - Spider-Man, X-Men, Fantastic Four, Iron Man etc. 
 New large campaign. Good Graphics.
  
  The Bad - Same old material to previous games like X-Men Legends 1 and 2. The combat gets repetitive 
 and lacks character development.
  
  Yes, it is finally here. The long awaited Ultimate Alliance - marvel fans will be pleased with 
 this installation. But! wait until you play this game even a fan like myself can change his mind. 
 Sure it is fun to play and the multiplayer feature allows you to play with friends and others. 
 However, after a couple of hours messing around with Spider-Man and his folks, it then gets awfully 
 repetitive - the quest, the combat, the story etc. It is basically nothing other than button mashing, 
 jumping attacks and limited special attacks. All the enemies feel like they are dumb bots and they 
 all behave the same. The bosses are not much of a challenge and all the heroes are not very different. 
 They are only 2 main special attacks: direct attacks and passive attacks. The campaign is huge 
 and can keep you busy for 20-40 hours maybe. That doesn't mean it is worth it. You will see many 
 familiar characters and villains of the marvel universe but the lack of communication will leave 
 you dazed because of plain boring speech and predictable dialogs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morei
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 8, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Quite simply, what Marvel have done here is bring some fan favourite comic book heroes, along with 
 some less known characters, place them in totally epic environments that on the PC just look mind 
 blowing &amp; created a game that absolute genius!
  The game play is very easy to get to grips with as it is just a case of using strong &amp; weak 
 attacks (4 &amp; 6 on the num pad) mixed in with some special attacks &amp; then youre away, exploring 
 numerous worlds from the Marvel comics.
  I won't go in to detail about specific details of the game as a lot has already been said about 
 the game, but the one thing I will mention that I absolutely LOVE about the game is how the game 
 adapts to the characters you decide to use when you speak to certain people, for instance when 
 you meet professor X, hell recognise if you have an X-man on your team &amp; the speech will be 
 slightly different than if you didn't have an X-man.
  Also another thing I really liked was at the very end when it gave you a sort of evaluation on 
 how you did &amp; the side mission that you were given in the game, depending on whether you completed 
 them or not, it will explain how your actions effected future events, a very nice way to round 
 off an extremely entertaining game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anuebis
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 26, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  This game was made for every comic book dork alive. I very much enjoyed the game. What I found 
 even better was that I could play it on my PC like any other console game. The Graphic in the game 
 were great, I found the HDR lighting is was really made the graphics in the game. The story line 
 of the game was good. Nothing amazing, but then again it's a marvel game and Story never really 
 runs to deep. The game play was fun and satisfying. I liked how the costumes came into play as 
 your armor. You could also add stats to your costume, in the sense of grinding out armor. Their 
 are a ton of characters in this game, and really cool system for forming teams. Best advise is 
 just play around with all the characters to see what you prefer. I fond I was using a couple of 
 what I call bashers ( hand to hand guys) and a couple of shooters (no need to explain) . I think my 
 girlfriend and I finished the game in around 20 hours. Great length for an action RPG. The game 
 was fun, looked good, and friend friendly . I suggest you check it out if you don't own it. One 
 last note, I think the guys at Raven and Marvel should hook up for a movie, the FMV's were amazing. 
 Some of the best I've seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2007 3:29 am PT
Review:  Raven takes its X-Men Legends franchise to the next level with Marvel: Ultimate Alliance. This 
 is particularly strong praise since the X-Men Legends games are widely considered two of the best 
 superhero games ever made. Marvel: Ultimate Alliance touches up the already stellar gameplay, adds 
 in tons of Marvel characters, and ends up being one of the most enjoyable action RPGs currently 
 available. When you have such a variety of Marvel characters, each with a fully fleshed out storyline, 
 its a little hard to make a cohesive storyline. Marvel: Ultimate Alliance nonetheless includes 
 a satisfying story that places your heroes against Doctor Team. Youll visit 17 locations along 
 the way including Asgard, Atlantic, Mephistos Hell, a Shiar ship, and many more. Marvel: Ultimate 
 Alliance makes its first good impression on the character select screen. Youll still a good number 
 of X-Men, but they are joined by the Fantastic Four (playing as The Human Torch is particularly 
 cool) , Spider-Man, Captain America, Silver Sulfer, Thor, Elektra, and Daredevil. The variety of 
 characters lets you focus on a playing style that you want. If you prefer melee combat, The Thing 
 will let you pound foes away. Would you rather keep your distance? Well, play as The Human Torch 
 and fly around levels while using long-ranged fire attacks. All in all there are over 20 playable 
 characters in the game, although youll meet over one hundred when you include the characters that 
 help you out along the way and villains, which include The Crimson Dynamo, Ultron and Dr. Doom. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srocciso
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 19, 2007 5:44 pm PT
Review:  If you have read at least ONE comic in your life, you will love this game. Nice graphics and great 
 story. Fairly easy game if you're used to play challenging games like the total war series, the 
 elder scrolls series or the warcraft series (the best games ever if you ask me) . Nevertheless it's 
 really fun and the story is great I just hope some will make a great game like this for the best 
 superheroe of all time, The Batman. I really recommend this to any superheroe fantasy fan, also 
 if you enjoyed this I would suggest you play X-Men : Rise of the Apocalypse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hobbesdknight
Rating: 6.6
Date: Feb 17, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Well being a huge comic book fan I was of course looking forward to controlling my favorite comic 
 bokk heroes in a RPG'ish type setting.
  
  The graphics are good and sharp. The overhead camera is kind of annoying. It would be a lot better 
 if you could drop the angle way down and the walls would become transparent or they made the rooms 
 not so claustrophobic. You have to zoomed way out to see everyone your fighting sinse all the baddies 
 spread out. It's also very repetitive. It's a dungeon crawl with a huge emphasis on smashing all 
 the environmental objects you can (to get money and health/energy regens) . About 80% of the game 
 is smashing barrels. The unlockables are very cool. There are old comic book side missions you 
 can unlock and play, or real live comic book covers, character art, custumes with special powers, 
 and other heroes to play with. The cutscenes have the best rendering of almost any game out there. 
 The opening movie looks like a preview of a real life movie. Totally awesome! The other cutscene 
 cinematics are the same, all super cool and great looking.
  
  Overall it's not a bad game, it's worth it for the cinematics let me say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brewer74
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2007 2:38 am PT
Review:  I just saw the name of this game and decided to give it a go. I had not seen any news about it 
 in my PC Powerplay mags, nor on Gamespot. It really caught me by sueprise. I am a fairly big Marvel 
 fan with close ties to the Punisher and Sipder-Man franchises, so I knew a little about the universe 
 that the game is set in. I found this to be a help because the charachters and plots might seem 
 a little bit gay to outsiders. The presentation is nothing special in this game with the menus 
 and loading screens looking very console port-ish. The graphics are just average too, not too much 
 to look at but that is just the surface. The game features a large number of charachters who all 
 have heaps of moves. All youre fav's are in there like Spidey and the Fantastic 4 and I really 
 enjoyed using Blade and Ghost Rider too. There is a surprisignly large depth in this game with 
 plenty of side puzzles, power-ups, bosses and little side quests to keep you interested. The combat, 
 matched with the special moves, is also alot of fun. The boss battles are really good, with the 
 Galtactus fight one of the stand outs. There is also a co-op multu-player mode that runs thorugh 
 gamespy. Its not-bad for a little bit of fun but overall it really dosentadd mutch to the life 
 of the game. This was the breakout hit of 2006 for me, I really enjoyed it from start to finish. 
 They could have really had a big blockbuster I feel, if they had of polished up the game a bit. 
 I just wanted Punisher in there. It is really cheap at the moment so I can highly reccomend this 
 game to comic book fans, although, the general gamer will also get a good kick from this game. 
 I find its a breath of fresh air with all the other games out there and when you get sick of some 
 of the RPG's and FPS's out there, its a highly reccomended alternative. Cant wait for the next 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellipad
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 29, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. Yes, it is repetitive, yes the writing and voice acting is not fantastic, yes 
 it looks better on the 360. The great thing about Alliance is that it manages to elevate above 
 all of these issues that would plague a lesser game and still deliver something special.
  I think that as a prerequisite to make it through this game you must be either a Marvel comics 
 fan - I mean a regular reader with some knowledge - or a serious hack &amp; slash gameplay fan. 
 This game delivers on both. I will address the comic fan first.
  There are is a good selection of Marvel heroes to play on your four-man roster from the get go 
 including big timers like Spidey, Thor, Iron Man and the entirety of the Fantastic Four. There 
 are also some lesser known playables like Deadpool, Moon Knight, Ms. Marvel (Warbird) and Luke 
 Cage. Every character has 2 alternative outfits to unlock and most have 3. Each outfit grants different 
 abilities to its wearer, so don't overlook that (especially Ghost Rider's Original - nice bonus 
 power.) The characters have unique and player specific powers and fighting styles that don't feel 
 like they repeat themselves even when you get to the unlockable characters.
  And how about those unlockables? Dr. Strange, Daredevil and Black Panther are just a taste. Part 
 of the fun in the game is meeting all of the many, many NPC's, fighting the many bosses and sub-bosses 
 that you know from the books. Another part of the fun is all of the unlockables.
  The game rewards you for your comic book knowledge, giving you boosts to your stats for assembling 
 comic book specific teams like the Defenders or the New Avengers, or teams based on character traits, 
 like ninjas or women (duh.) One of the cooler aspects is that eventually you can create your own 
 team with your own logo and whichever characters you want and it too will give you a bonus power 
 up of your choice. Personally I have not jumped into this because I haven't unlocked the Surfer 
 yet!
  The gameplay is solid and team dynamic (who does what type of damage and how) adds a nice level 
 of strategy. the player moves are unique and appealing, Captain America's Shield attacks, for instance 
 are particularly nice. Unlockable characters are not the same as playables, although there are 
 types. For example Daredevil does not play the same way as Deadpool or have the same moves but 
 he serves as a close combat specialist in the same way Deadpool does. The moves look and feel accurate.
 
  The hacking and slashing is repetitive and does lose its appeal in weaker levels. What is weak 
 to one, however may be strong for someone else and mostly I am basing their strength on story content 
 and setting. I am not keen on the Asgard levels as a setting but they do offer a break from the 
 typical dungeon crawling layout in level design.
  The special mission side games are repetitive as is the gameplay but there is enough variety and 
 the characters are different enough from eachother that switching them up and experimenting with 
 powers is rewarding as you level up your players and try to unlock your favorite hidden gems. This 
 is even one hack &amp; slasher that I will likely play through again, as you can load in yourleveled 
 up characters when you beat the game and start again with your personalized, fully powered up super-team. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkShadow1425
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 26, 2007 3:23 am PT
Review:  marvel has a really large universe with so many characters in it. and it seems a good idea to unite 
 those characters in a game and get them evolved in one common story. but somehow i think that marvel 
 could've used this chance better. the game is good because it has the idea of uniting and this 
 idea itself is a great thing, but marvel left the game like that, i mean the game easily could 
 have been made better.
  
  but some negative things doesnt make the game boring, right? the difficulty in normal mode is just 
 the right, so you dont easily get bored. and that makes the game addicting to those hack'n slash 
 lovers. a smooth gampeplay also supports that. creating your own team, playing in many different 
 characters as you wish, using their special powers, its what a marvel game has to have. the graphics 
 arent so wonderful but who needs graphics when u can have fun. its surely true that it gets u in 
 the mood but too much graphics will only make the game look better, nothing more. so it's a nice 
 game to play if u have some time for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-mystiqu-one
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 16, 2007 5:44 am PT
Review:  This game is defenitly one of marvels bests, I mean that the idea of getting all of the marvel 
 super heroes and doing one game about all of them is a good idea the graphics are great but the 
 idea of the game was already used by marvel twice in the x-men legends siries, the graphics are 
 to good for the ordanry computer to take so there are parts that the game gets stuck, the gameplay 
 is good but it is hard to control a lot of charcters at same time so some times when the fight 
 is over you end up with one or two dead charcters, the sound is very good and is combined with 
 the game, I mean that every time there is a fight or when you see a bad guy, the music changes, 
 The biggest down side of the game is that it is extrimly expensive, bottom line is if your friend 
 has it take it . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slugrite
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jan 8, 2007 11:29 pm PT
Review:  although the game play and graphics were on the upper ends of the scale i had to lower my rating.... all 
 the lvls seem the same and unable to pan out to get a real feel for the game. also not having ability 
 to turn the screen was a real bummer. the older Marvel and spidey games were alot more playable 
 and fun like halo but still kept the awsome GTA gameplay without repeditive killing for coins. 
 the boss's dies way to easy and the fact that u could just solo them and switch toons near death 
 ( and they would fight low end bad guys and gain HP anf power rapidly) really took from them having 
 any real power 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcadius
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 8, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  Well people in their late 20's or 30's should know these super heroes by heart. Though I didn't 
 know ALL of the heroes available in Marvel Ultimate Alliance, I can't but feel melancholic when 
 I saw the introduction video portraying original team made by Spidey, Capt'n America, Wolverine 
 and Thor! All in the same package! Though my favorite childhood heroes were in fact Spidey, Wolverine 
 and Iron Man, I had to pass the first mission to get all the guys together at last! I know its 
 your basic clickfest (or buttonfest if you use gamepads) but if playing with your favorite childhood 
 hero is a blast, imagine playing with 4! The graphics are great, you can even zoom in the action 
 and enjoy the eye candy (for those into that) , the voice acting is adequate, and even Spidey plays 
 humor role when letting out the should I make my patented dance now line, (or something like that) 
 when referring to the somewhat famous dance someone created and distributed over the internet. 
 You get to play with four people at the same time, or let the computer control the other 3, and 
 this resembles the olde arcade machines, where you'd have a big console with 4 joysticks and a 
 big screen where you and your friends would enter huge amounts of quarters or tokens just to be 
 able to play together. Well this is the same thing but on the computer or console, and while I 
 get to play it on my computer with my little nephew, playing it on a console and a big screen makes 
 it even better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fahad2mail
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 4, 2007 4:08 am PT
Review:  This one is a nice game. I played The X-men series by Activision. And that was really great. The 
 new one is also good enough for who love marvel comic heros . In this game you will be able to 
 play with almost 20 heros. some heros are lock and can be unlock later during playing the game. 
 The story is renewed. villen take from all of marvel comics as like as heros. World in danger. 
 So Streck and its captain call all the mighty heros to being act and work as a team. Thats why 
 the name of the game is Marvel Ultimate Alliance. Anyway, the gameplay is awesome. You have to 
 play with 4 marvel heros at a time. but you can choose you hero by visiting the game save point. 
 you can change your hero, you also can create your own team later in the game. Many hero there 
 are. from fantastic four to daredavil, silver sulfer, even captain nick fury can be unlocked! I 
 choose throne, son of mighty god Aodin, Human Torch, Wolvorine and The Thing as my team and i complete 
 the game with them. This is really fun to play the game. you can do all the power and magic you 
 see in the comic and cartoon with the heros. and some hero can also fly. like throne, storm, human 
 torch, etc...... The sound is also great. Now about the graphics. This game looks awesome with 
 high end system. But you can also play this game with low configaration. You need one thing most, 
 the hdd space. this game took almost 8 gb of your HDD space! This is really huge ins't it? A big 
 and huge map, many many things to do, you should think that it is ok. But i dont agree with you. 
 8 GB is too much for this game with this kind of graphics. by the way, you can also play submission 
 during playing the main game. Those are be found somewhere while you playing the game. you can 
 save the game at save point and extract yourself at any point those you complete before. you can 
 also revive your team after a required time gone when your one or more hero died in battle. Now 
 about the boss. basically boss are the toughest thing in this game. small boss take less time and 
 panic to end. But problem with the big size boss or giant boss. but they are challanging though. 
 To kill the big boss, you have to press some button quickly after showing the button name on the 
 screen. If you do it correctly, you will win. But this part is most challanging. Specially for 
 me. i cant press the right button for severel time. and i got angry lol.. You have to fight with 
 dr. doom to planet eater giant galactus, the former master of silver surfer. This is a good thing, 
 during playing the game, you face some puzzle type quistion. You have to answer them. It is about 
 marvel comic related. You will find the answer by talking several people when you are of fight 
 during playing the game. Of Fight means when you are in the bass, you cant fight or show your power, 
 even you cant hit a punch! Cause this is a no fight zone. anyway, the game is really fun for playing. 
 I really enjoy the game. I hope you too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hadd3
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 31, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  When i saw a new marvel game i wasn't so keen about it. But when i played it at my friends house 
 i got attached to it and bought my own copy. And i don't regret that. Marvel has yet again (with 
 the basics of X-Men Legends) made a great, no, fantastic game.
  
  With hours of gameplay and unexpected surprises this game is a instant classic. It contains so 
 many twist and turns and with the graphics that look amazing in the cut scenes the game is starting 
 to feel like a movie.
  
  It has some few bad sides too. Some thing in the game can be hard to figure out because they did'nt 
 spend so much time on the clues. This leaves you confused from time to time but it works out in 
 the game but you got to test your way out.
  
  I also got surprised with the roster. It has a great amount of superheroes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shre123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  The sheer complexity of 30 marvel characters along with a well written and extremely action-packed 
 storyline gives you the gaming experience everyone craves. Marvel Ultimate Alliance gives any gamer 
 the pleasure of knocking around the baddies with hard punches, super combos, and amazing super 
 powers. The well constructed digital sets and scenarios add the total positive ambiance of the 
 game. Although the standard for graphic in this day are extremely high, my rating of a 9 still 
 stands for the smooth game play that is intertwined with it. The fun also comes in with customizing 
 your individual heroes, since their characters are so deep, to new levels, new powers, new outfits, 
 and even unlock equip able items. Such depth has never been perceived in the gaming world, unless 
 you count Elder Scrolls 4 which is absolutely impossible to run on any average gaming computer. 
 Okay, and now for the bad. The action seems to be quite technical as you have to keep doing the 
 same moves again and again but nonetheless fun when you try on new bad guys or super villains. 
 And critically speaking, i find that some dialog is kinda cheesy and some parts of customizing 
 seem to contrast. Other than that theres not much to loathe on. Overall, amazing game, solid fun, 
 enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VictorMazzi
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2006 3:14 am PT
Review:  Without doubt, that game enters for my Top Ten of all time. Excellent graphics and sounds, very 
 challenging and the most important: very, very addicting. Despite the missing of some characters, 
 such as Hulk, who appears in the cinematic that preview the ACT V, and other heroes which, unfortunately, 
 we cant play, such as Cyclops, Rogue, Colossus (I play the version for PC) and others, the game 
 wisely chose the best characters. The special conversations (Elektra and Bullseye, Crimson Dynamo 
 and Iron Man, among many others) are also very fun. The giant enemies (Galactus, Ymir, the robot 
 of Arcade) are also very hard, especially until you didn't discover how to manage them. But at 
 the end, everything helps to increase the fun factor . Besides that, the trivia games, as the simulation 
 games also helps the game in keeping the fun. And there is the constant searching of secret areas, 
 items and other things. I highly recommend this game, not just for comic fans, but for RPG fans 
 also 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 15, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  Marvel Ultimate Alliance is by far the best Action Adventure/ RPG that I have played this year, 
 I know that there are games like Oblivion, but this is something completely different.
  
  The GOOD: The game has an awesome story line that keeps you addicted to it thought the whole career/ 
 story mode, the game gives youre the ability to manage a team chosen from about 20 characters 
 from the Marvel universe and change among them as the game progresses. There are some good puzzles 
 and great fight sequences, to use the abilities, new combos and powers that you learn along the 
 game, also almost fully destructible environments, and the minicut scenes change dynamically according 
 to the characters that your playing at the time
  
  The best part is the cinematic or the cut scenes in the game they are like part off of a movie 
 which keep you glued to the screen as the story unravels and the amount of detail on screen  
 the link would show you what Im talking about) .
  
  The game play is pretty good and the decisions you make during the game could make a difference. 
 The graphics and lighting are good for this type of game doesnt eat in to graphics too much I 
 played with a GeForce 6200 128MB GPU the game ran on full graphics with low resolution tho, so 
 if you have any card over this should be ok. The sound is awesome when it comes to background music 
 and the voice acting is pretty good and the characters sound very real the way we know them through 
 the comics, cartoons and the movies.
  
  Online play is there to play with your friends, which would mean strategizing and lots of fun. 
 There is replay value though individual comic challenges of the different characters which is tougher.
 
  
  The BAD: Not so much of bad to talk about the camera can be annoying occasionally though, same 
 as other RPGs. The voice sometimes overlaps with the background music sometimes which is a glitch 
 and there are the occasional sound bugs. There could have been more characters. The boss fights 
 can be frustrating at times, but in a game there has to be a challenge (get used to key combinations)
 
  
  OVERALL: The game is a lot of fun with different places that you know from the comics to visit 
 and at the end of the game youre kind of attached to the characters. The game is very addictive 
 with over 10 hours of game play.
  
  You can check out the video I made which would help you to show the cinematic as well as the game 
 play enjoy  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maagi
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 13, 2006 8:13 pm PT
Review:  If you have played X-Men Legends -games, you will be familiar with the controls and concept the 
 minute you start playing. For others, it may take few more minutes, but this one's a really easy 
 to get into, especially if you know the hero's already. As Legends, Ultimate Alliance is basically 
 an action game, where you beat a whole lot of minions of various bad guys with a four member group 
 of your own. Quite often there's familiar faces as semi-boss and boss -related status with'em.
 
  
  Characters :
  This time around, it's only good vs bad (unlike in Legends 2, where it was good &amp; bad vs. Apocalypse 
 &amp; his minions) , but that's as interesting as before. You have some X-Men, some Avengers, The 
 Fantastic Four and some miscellanous heroes at your disposal. These numbers increase a bit if you 
 do certain things (getting past a certain act opens up Dr. Strange, collecting small figures of 
 DareDevil and Black Panther will open their characters, and so on) , but only by a few characters. 
 PC version is missing Colossus for some reason , which is kind of sad since I've been a fan of 
 his pretty much the whole career of reading X-Men. But nevertheless, the character selection is 
 quite impressive.
  Characters are generally either melee'ers or one's that do damage from range. Additionally, you 
 could maybe say that there's some crowd controllers as well (Spider-Man and Iceman at least) , who 
 can immobilize normal minions for a while, which can be very usefull. But basically, some guys 
 hit hard, some shoot hard, or something like that.
  Personally, once again I found Wolverine being overall best to play, mostly due his good damage 
 output and regeneration. It doesn't matter so much unless you're fighting a boss, where I sometimes 
 ended up soloing the boss with just Wolverine. Also, his rage is excellent, dishes out huge damage 
 especially to damage sustaining opponents like bosses.
  In UA you can also make your own team that consist of four heroes you choose. They can rise levels 
 as a team and thus gain some special bonuses (more health, energy, better damage output, etc) if 
 they collect reputation by killing mini-bossess and bossess. Fun addition, but also not totally 
 necessary to excell without.
  
  Combat :
  Fighting hasn't changed much. As default, Q does the normal punch, W does the bit heavier one. 
 With UA, pressing and holding W now does a knockback hit, but I haven't found it usefull that much. 
 Also as before, you can do few different combo's with Q and W, resulting stunning hit, leg sweep 
 or uppercut that tosses the opponent to air. You are also able to throw, but as finest addition 
 to basic combat, you can also now just grab the guy and beat him while holding him, or do a characteristic 
 special hit with W. Good way to kill guys was just grab'em, hit'em 5-6 times and do the special 
 hit, and finish'em off while they're on the ground if they didn't die already. Looks nice, and 
 it's a change instead of just beating'em.
  Unlike in Legends 2, in UA the special moves are shown on the screen during gameplay, which is 
 good, since I can't really remember all moves for everyone, and now I can just check'em out from 
 the bottom of the screen. Special moves are the one's that define characters and do the most damage, 
 and while they still sometimes eat out all your energy, they're still worth it. Good thing compared 
 to Legends 2, now there isn't as many skills as before, but they have either been included to some 
 other skill (like some boost does multiple things instead of just one, etc) or costume-related 
 skillsets, so they all still pretty much exist. Also the gear has been improved quite a bit, now 
 there's some good stuff for certain characters, while some stuff remain just generally usefull 
 to anyone.
  While normal soldiers and minions get beaten easily, the bossess are much harder, as you would 
 expect. On some bossess, there's usually some trick how to win'em more easily. For example in Namor's 
 city, there's a big dragon-like thing you have to beat by getting it to destroy four pillar-like 
 buildings. You go inside it, and it attacks, and you have to press Q, W, E or Spacebar in shown 
 order, and the boss looses health. Repeat it enough, and you got a dead boss.
  
  Graphics &amp; Sound :
  Graphics have improved quite abit, while some animations have remained 
 the same (there really wasn't a whole lot improve with those) . Now the game looks great at best, 
 but even in worse spots, it's still good enough and just enough cartoonish to remind you about 
 the original source. The fire effects, while maybe not looking very realistic, look incredibly 
 detailed and well done. Human Torch's Flamethrower -skill looks just amazing.
  Sound isn't spectacular, but it does it's job once again. Music changes to some heavy-esque music, 
 which is actually nice for me. Other than that, I haven't found anything worth mentioning. The 
 sounds work for me.
  
  Overall :
  
  It's definetely an improvement to the series, and very entertaining. I haven't played the game 
 through yet, but at maybe 3/4 parts through, game clocks around 18&frac12; hours, so it's not a 
 short one either.
  It's quite a pity that due game mechanics, some characters aren't as powerfull as their counterparts 
 in comics. Thor is quite far from being a God of anything, Luke Cage DOES get hurt as does The 
 Thing, and so on. They should really program some sort of different moves for guys like The Thing 
 and Colossus and the like, 'cause it doesn't look good when they hit and guys just keep standing 
 there, just like with any other guy hitting'em. If The Thing swings you with a light-pole, the 
 guy should fly. I don't really care if that would do a lot of damage, just fly to the wall or something. 
 Gladly the special hit while holding the opponent sort of covers a bit about this issue, but not 
 enough in my opinion.
  Also, your teammates damage output is lowered quite a bit while you're not controlling them. It 
 looks incredibly stupid when the other three are beating the last guy for like 20 seconds, before 
 you come in and hit once and it dies from 20% of health. Same thing with bosses - if it isn't you 
 who kills them, it isn't anyone. However, since the blocking feature now let's you block literally 
 all damage, your groupmates would beat up anyone while you just get all the attention to yourself 
 (which usually happens, since bossess etc. tend to attack the player-controlled hero) , so I guess 
 it's sort of balancing or something. But if they would lessen the effect of blocking, they should 
 increase the damage output of your comrades while they're at it, otherwise it would be just ridiculous.
 
  Playing for me has been more fun with certain characters, such as Spider-Man, DareDevil and Deadpool, 
 due their not so straight-away-destructive attacks, but more of the variety of things to do. They 
 all have nice special characteristic stuff that spice up the gameplay with some bossess minions.
 
  
  Overall, Marvel : Ultimate Alliance has been great fun and entertainment, albeit a bit simple one 
 at that. There's bunch of extra stuff and things to do, which prompt you to start again almost 
 immediately after completing the game, just to try'em out or just play with different characters. 
 While it may be unnecessary tricky if even possible to play multiplayer this on your PC, this could 
 be one of the most fun games to play with console's with your friend (s) , especially if you both 
 would be fans of Marvel comics in some degree. While owning the game already on PC, I'm thinking 
 about getting it to PS2 as well. The lack of graphical luxury doesn't bother that much if you got 
 a friend cooping with you and wreaking havoc for the good guys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolgraphic
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 3, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  This is a fun game to play right from the first time you insert the DVD and start to play. The 
 cut scene before the game actually starts is juicy and introduces some of the may characters that 
 we know of like Spiderman, Wolverine etc.
  
  The gameplay is great because I can change the characters when I want and these characters have 
 different powers as they progress through each stage. The A. I is also great and I hadly find pathfinding 
 problems. They attack the right targets and once you loose control of the characters, they dont 
 dissappoint. As each level progresses, it gets harder and the bosses are difficult to beat without 
 solving some puzzles first and taking them down. Character animations are great but when you get 
 up close they don't appear to being saying anything although they are expressing themselves with 
 body movement. That is just weird. One annoying aspect of the game are the jokes. Some are funny 
 and some are not especially the ones made by the webslinger. Another thing I dislike is the save 
 system, you cannot save when you want. Saves only happen when blue circles appear on the floor 
 and these circles only come once in a while but there are other ways of saving like creating a 
 portal back to HQ and actually going to a blue circle and saving it there. Daunting. The story 
 is pretty good and the level design is also good from metallic corridors to ice lands, etc.
  
  The graphics is good, I was not expecting anything groundbreaking and neither should you. It 
 fits the module of the game and I have to say that it is pretty demanding when you turn shadows 
 from low to medium (PC) . Power display has been done right. Each character has its unique power 
 display and it looks good to see fireballs going from character to the next.
  
  Sound is very imprtant in this game and I have to say that it is hit and miss. There are some times 
 when the music overwhelms the dialogue and I have to rush to the menu to do something about it. 
 It should have been better. The overall value in this game are the characters themselves because 
 you can play the game again with different characters and also complete some mini quest when you 
 pick up a simulation disc. This is a satisfying game from start to finish. I would recommend this 
 game to anyone who does not want anything serioua. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sweet_serene99
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 11, 2006 6:51 am PT
Review:  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is mindless button-mashing fun that's thoroughly enjoyable and addictive, 
 provided you don't have too high expectations for it.
  
  It is an improvement over X-Men : Legends in terms of graphics, but I still find the controls in 
 Legends to be better laid out. It took me a while to get used to using some of the powers in M: UA 
 using just the keyboard, and the mouse didn't really help at all. I guess it's meant to be played 
 with a gamepad.
  
  The roster of characters is just fun and provides a huge variety for you to pick and choose from. 
 I'm a little disappointed that some of my favorite X-Men like Rogue and Gambit did not make the 
 cut, but this is just a minor issue since I have other new character to play with like Elektra 
 and Spiderman.
  
  At the end of the day, the game is really not a breakthrough or a landmark in anything, but as 
 far as entertainment value goes - it doesn't disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totoleephat
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 9, 2006 11:12 pm PT
Review:  Well then, it is a Marvel experience to combine their super heroes... Fantastic Four, the couple 
 of X-Men, S. H. I. E. L. D, even their solo heroes. You can team up any heroes to fight in an epic disaster 
 of Dr. Doom's reign.
  
  I think it has a good storyline. So even it can connecting the earth, Valhalla, even outer space. 
 Well, probably they want an effective promotion to their super heroes at once pack...
  
  But Marvel must learn how to make a good camera view. It is totally awful when you find suddenly 
 one of your heroes die because falling, the health meter drown by unseen villains and you don't 
 get understand how it happens.
  
  For PC performance the controller feels a little bit hard because there are a lot of command to 
 varies your heroes moves. Even the shortcut keys not to helps the game playing Graphic are awesome. 
 Especially when you have the best PC requirement to turn the advance lighting.
  
  Sounds are not too special, maybe you will interest with the heroes conversations. Some of them 
 will make you laugh till dead (Especially Dead Pool and Spidey... what a Joker!!)
  
  Well, it still worth to play, especially for you who want to know each heroes history you've never 
 heard. Marvel-mania must play this awesome game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gcodin
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 3, 2006 3:06 am PT
Review:  Have been playing this game for some time now, it's a great game, especially if you play it on-line, where 
 it can really become exciting! As a single-player game, it tends to become a little linear (if you-re 
 not a Marvel fan) . Lots of characters to choose from and lots of new awesome powers to discover. The 
 movies in the game could be made much better. Also, I have discovered bugs in the game, especially 
 when you change the characters suit, in the game (corner bugs) .
  The sounds are a little bit of disappointing , and the graphics as well, laking a bit of the comics 
 style but overall a good game, a must have for every comics fan out there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superzeh1978
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2006 10:34 am PT
Review:  Without doubt, that game enters for my Top Ten of all time. Excellent graphics and sounds, very 
 challenging and the most important: very, very addicting. Despite the missing of some characters, 
 such as Hulk, who appears in the cinematic that preview the ACT V, and other heroes which, unfortunately, 
 we cant play, such as Cyclops, Rogue, Colossus (I play the version for PC) and others, the game 
 wisely chose the best characters. The special conversations (Elektra and Bullseye, Crimson Dynamo 
 and Iron Man, among many others) are also very fun. The giant enemies (Galactus, Ymir, the robot 
 of Arcade) are also very hard, especially until you didn't discover how to manage them. But at 
 the end, everything helps to increase the fun factor . Besides that, the trivia games, as the simulation 
 games also helps the game in keeping the fun. And there is the constant searching of secret areas, 
 items and other things. I highly recommend this game, not just for comic fans, but for RPG fans 
 also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gijas
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 21, 2006 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Simply a great game if your into a hack and slash, action super heroes game. That's right! All 
 your favorites like Spiderman, Wonder Women ect.. in one game! I remember back when I was a child 
 (hard to do sometimes) and watching Spiderman, The Hulk, Batman, etc.. on TV (yes I'm old) but 
 this brings me back to that era of my life. Even though this game was clearly a Xbox port it's 
 still great on the PC though I will advise to go with a control pad. The key board is OK but takes 
 a lot to memorize what key does what so I just dick with my UBC controller, much easier.
  
  Pro's:
  
  Great physics and effects
  Graphics are great
  Sound is good most of the time
 
  Great RP features and up-grades
  Great replay value using different charactors and combo's
  
  Con's
  Story mode is long and 
 repeats on a lot of levels
  levels need more diversity
  Sound is not great in spots (voice acting)
  Camera controls for PC version weird
  
  Overall:
 
  
  If you like the X-Men series or super heroes and comics, movies, and shows about them you will 
 surely enjoy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  I was quite excited that Raven was developing a Marvel game that would include a large cast of 
 some of my favorites. I really enjoyed X-Men Legends II but this game blows you away. The developers 
 hard work shows through, as they include many popular characters, plus relatively obscure ones, 
 all held together by a good plot which keeps you going. The big baddie this time is Dr. Doom, and 
 he has a huge host of villains (known as the Masters of Evil) working for him. It all starts with 
 an attack on the S. H. I. E. L. D. Helicarrier where Nick Fury assembles that largest group of super 
 heroes this side of the world has ever seen. They'll have to plow through an amazing number of 
 super villains before battling Dr. Doom or the world as we know it is over. The story is very comic 
 booky but it works well since none of the heroes aren't just stuffed there; they're there for a 
 reason. The gameplay is absolutely great, especially the boss battles, which are epic in scope 
 and require some thinking. It's essentially a dungeon crawler with you and three other AI controlled 
 heroes duking it out with random bad guys with the occasional boss thrown in. The graphics, while 
 not top-notch, are still good, especially the character models. With the advanced lighting option 
 on, the game rivals the Xbox 360 version. The sound is also good, but sometimes buggy. Voice acting 
 may get cheesy once in awhile but this is a comic book game. The only complaint I have is the leveling 
 up system. You only get skill points for leveling up, while there are no stat points to add to 
 your current stats. You gotta have both since its an RPG, Raven. You can also equip your characters 
 but they never show up on your person but it does provide nice bonus effects. Overall, this is 
 THE best comic book game ever, and easily trumps DC's Justice League Heroes (which were only console-limited) . 
 All Marvel fans will rejoice and have fun with this game and parents should definitely pick this 
 up for their kids. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djames216
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 19, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  Marvel Ultimate Alliance PC Review
  
  Brief Overview.
  This is an overhead action adventure game with you in control of a team of up to 4 Heroes. You 
 directly control one at time but can switch to another in your pre-defined team instantly.
  
  Before I get into the meat and bones of the review, let me just say that if you are a marvel 
 comics fan, GO BUY THIS GAME NOW! Phew, ok. Now I've got that out of my system, on with the review.
 
  
  The Foibles
  CONTROLS - I don't have a X360 game-pad, so I don't know how well it works. I have a PS2 controller 
 plugged into my PC though. Setting up and using this particular game-pad was irksome and fiddly. 
 Something that is a little confusing is that the compass orientation of buttons on screen does 
 not match with the PS2 game-pad, with some perseverance you can adjust to this though.
  
  MUSIC - The music is reasonable enough and it varies nicely from mission to mission. But it can 
 be disappointingly over-loud and distorted at times. This is especially noticable when it drowns 
 out some Super Villain's monologue.
  
  COMIC MISSIONS - Finally, this isn't entirely a negative as such but more of a warning. Throughout 
 the game, you can collect Training Simulator Discs . These discs enable you to play a comic mission 
 for one particular hero. There about twenty of these (one for each playable hero I think) . Anyway, 
 the thing is you might find these comic missions enjoyable but others may find them frustrating. 
 They are noticably more difficult than the main game.
  
  ONLINE PLAY - The online play seems like a good idea, especially playing co-op. But the problem 
 I have faced with the PC version is that I found absolutely no games online whatsoever. The best 
 thing I can suggest is if a few friends get together beforehand to play online.
  
  The Positives
  CUT SCENES - I'm not normally a fan of cut scenes but these look really good. 
 If they're not your cup of tea, you can skip though them if you wish. It makes me wish they would 
 do a CGI-animated Marvel series though (please please please) .
  
  GRAPHICS - The graphics look excellent. They have done a great job of re-creating the look of all 
 the heroes (and villains) . The powers look great too and there is a nice variety that makes each 
 hero stand out from the rest.
  
  LITTLE TOUCHES - It may seem innocuous, but I like that you can talk to other heroes and characters 
 between missions. It's purely an optional thing, but if you're a marvel fan you may enjoy this.
 
  
  ENVIRONMENTS - There is a pleasing array of environments to explore. Ranging from things like swimming 
 in the deep ocean to traversing an alien world.
  
  SKILL POINT SYSTEM - As you go through the game, you collect coins that you spend on upping your 
 heroes powers and stats. If you don't like this sort of thing though, you can leave the computer 
 to auto spend the points for you. This leaves it up to you as to how deep you want to get into 
 the game.
  
  UNLOCKABLES - There is a ton of unlockables. Comic missions, playable heroes, costumes, gear that 
 your heroes can wear that ups stats in a variety of ways. This adds to its re-playability as you 
 could start the game again with newly unlocked heroes etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killingpwr
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 14, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Refreshingly fun and fast paced, Marvel Ultimate Alliance is a game that is absoultely worth its 
 high ratings. It has an intriuging character development system that allows you to develop your 
 super powers for just about any approach to the swarm of enemies you will encounter. You will need 
 to think creatively on the high difficulty, because enemies come in all shapes and sizes and the 
 system has a diversity of colorful moves you can execute to overcome the super villains and their 
 'lackeys'.
  
  What brings this game to its core action genre is the combo moves and blocking while simultaneously 
 keeping track of all enemies on screen and anticipating their more powerfull attacks. You can then 
 use the block command and if you are quick enough your character will receive no damage. On the 
 other hand, it becomes increasingly difficult to do this, and that can be exactly the thing to 
 instill an engaging challenge to tweak that skill and optimize it . The character development system 
 reallys allows you to get involved with the challange. There is an oppurtunity to try different 
 techniques and find what works best.
  
  Marvel Ultimate Alliance is a lengthy game too, which leads to the many encounters of creatures 
 from all different types of habibtats and environments. But, I can imagine this length was to compensate 
 for the very short time it takes to earn all these super heroes' special powers. The game is involved 
 enough to fulfill a very exacting online experience. It could be like the popular game Diablo except 
 with many more choices of characters (Diablo II has 7 with the expansion pack) . But as much as 
 it may dissapoint the online gameplay is dismal as it apparently wasn't designed to incorporate 
 a well developed standard for PC.
  
  This game deserves a 9, but it was Tilted because of replay value. It is a blast to play untill 
 you learn everything, so it ended after having achieved every ability the game had to offer in 
 what seemed a relative short period of time. The potential could have been well incorporated with 
 lasting online gameplay, but it was over-looked by the game developers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wurn
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 13, 2006 7:15 am PT
Review:  Graphically it looks great. So no complaints there. The navigation of the menu is easy and the 
 Video clips inbetween really amazing looking.
  
  I like the fact that you start the game wihout an intro or having to go to some Tutorial school 
 or instruction section to play. From the word go you have to defend and attack. As you go along 
 it explains to you what to do and when or how. Its also great that it gives you the keyboard command 
 asswell as the controller commands. Offcoarse this game should only be attempted with a controller. 
 I've hear that playing it with the keyboard leeds to lots of frustration.
  
  Also you start the game with probably the strongest of the Superhero's. Captain America, Wolverine, 
 Thor and Spiderman. Of the four Spiderman seems the weakest to me. It does bother me alot seeing 
 as Spidy is my Hero of choice. As you progress through the game the characters obviously increase 
 in strengh and combat skills. Which makes for great action sequences.
  
  I am not into games such as this type of Arcade action, but this one i really enjoy. Xmen the game 
 was a bit boring and i gave up after awhile. But not this one. So i suggest you get the demo or 
 buy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacenwon
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2006 2:21 am PT
Review:  it's one of those games that you can pick up and just play for hours. awesome storyline, even awesomer 
 (is that a word?) characters. the sounds / music kicka$$ as well. i've yet to actually beat the 
 game, but i've put in some hefty hours on it, and it's just really a good title. i'm not sure if 
 they have a demo available for download, but they should... they'd easily hook whoever tries it. 
 if i had to change one thing about the game..? i guess it would be the way the rest of your group 
 / party follows you. sometimes they get caught up doing their own thing while fighting or strolling 
 along. maybe a bug? heck ionno... try it for yourself. in my opinion though, GREAT game to pick 
 up the next time you go shoppin :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PyreofKoL
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 8, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  The game had a dream team of heros to take down the ultimate team of villains. Marvel: Ultimate 
 Alliance gives you that very experience with stunning, high-quality cut scenes, superb voice acting 
 (although I would've enjoyed Hugh Jackman as Wolverine) , and great customization options. The graphics 
 faired surprisingly well on PC, and the sound was crystal clear. The sheer amount of combinations 
 for teams and powers is incredible. And now it's time for a fanboy moment: I wish to hug Activision 
 and Raven for putting Deadpool and Ghost Rider in this game. The wit of Deadpool and the pure badness 
 of Ghost Rider made the experience all the more enjoyable. I only have a few complaints, the first 
 of which is the character selection. While the thirty characters available to you through out the 
 game are quite varied and useful, there were still a few staple Marvel characters missing from 
 the equation; namely, The Hulk, Nightcrawler, and Jean Grey. The other problem I had was the storyline 
 was disappointingly short. Of course, I only logged 23 hours of gameplay on easy mode, so I have 
 yet to fully experience this game. Overall, buy it where and when ever you can lay your hands on 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azrealhk
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 6, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Another Marvel game, but this time the Marvel universe. The Marvel Universe is huge; you can think 
 of it as the Star Trek Universe where each sub, or back ground character has a whole life of it's 
 own, with a history and their own adventures. The game does a good job of representing the Universe, 
 and although Marvel fans will say this is just a piece of the icing on the cake, others will find 
 a very rich environment.
  The game is classed as a Action RPG , but really it is more like a beat 'em up which choice of 
 permanent power ups. You basically develop your character, but learning a choice of skills, each 
 character with their own set of skills and special power ups and weapons. There are enough variety 
 to make each different character unique. The single player game will keep you occupied for about 
 30 hours, and the story is your average bad guy wants to take over the world/universe , however, 
 the story is detailed enough to be much better than you common Hollywood production.
  You will find all the favorites of the Marvel universe in the game, with a lot of lesser known 
 heroes and villains. It has to be said that it seems like Marvel did a shameless plug of some of 
 the lesser known characters to give it more publicity. For the gamer it means you can play some 
 of the lesser know cool heroes not found in other games.
  Game play: The game play is easy to master and the should be only a short learning curve. However, 
 it has to be said that MUA (for the PC) was developed with consoles in mind so some of the controls 
 are much more better on the consoles. This is not a major drawback but it does mean that the controls 
 could have been better if it was designed for the PC. Another problem is the camera which sometimes 
 get stuck, and the view gets blocked by a wall in front. This does not happen very often but annoying, 
 especially with you are in the midst of battle.
  Graphics: The graphics are excellent in the sense that you feel the comic book heroes coming alive, 
 but in terms of games of today, it is not really amazing (just good) . The animations are varied 
 and smooth and all the characters have detailed models. The backgrounds are very well done, and 
 looks like the developers have really made an effort of translating the comic book 2D to the 3D 
 of the game. Marvel fans will fan lots of easter eggs in this game.
  Sound: A lot of people reading comics will imagine what each character sounds like, and which means 
 that if the voices does to match the preconception, they sound funny or stupid. However, you cannot 
 judge a game because Marvel or developers used a different voice. This aside, I can say the sound 
 is of good quality, and the voice acting is not dull (monotonous) . However it is nothing amazing 
 or memorable.
  AI: This is a multi-player game (even single player) , where you fight as a team of four. The other 
 three are AI controlled in single player game. Although AI is not especially important for a beat 
 'em up, your other three members (which should be props) , sometimes tend to get in the way, which 
 is annoying. I do not mind them being props but when they affect gameplay, you have to knock some 
 points off. This is not a serious issue, and in general you will not have much problems.
  Multi-player: This game, has lots of things to do in single player, especially with all the Easter 
 eggs, but it is more fun when with multi-player. This is especially true because, without multi-player, 
 you will just be easter egg hunting. Character development for this type of game is shallow, so 
 there is not big incentive to improve your characters too much. I cannot say too much against multi-player 
 except it makes the game a bit more fun. The only bad point about MP is that there is one host, 
 and other players play the characters on that host. This means that if you are not the host, you 
 will be playing one of the other three characters, and helping them level up instead of using your 
 own characters. This is a bit of alet down, because why waste your effort on other peoples characters.
 
  Overall: This is a great game, and quality production. If you are a Marvel fan, needless to say 
 this is a must. If not. If your are a beat 'em up fan, this is also quite good. This game is also 
 a good recommendation for people who are interested in beat 'em ups, but do not know which one 
 to buy. It is a really nice game to have in your collection and most people, even non Marvel fans 
 will find it fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n17r0
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 6, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Many a comic book fans always like to dwell on the what-if scenarios when it comes to their favorite 
 heroes and villains. Activision did the same, and took it to an unforgettable level. In their latest 
 game set in the Marvel world, all the famous creations from the minds of Marvel are set in an epic 
 storyline, in which the Earths fate rests on whos alliance stands strongergood or evil.
  
  Instead of just trying to set the stage in stories already written by Marvel, the developers 
 built their own tale for the game (though there are a handful of side-missions based off of the 
 comics as well) . The campaign as a whole is griping, and stays intense the whole way through, making 
 Ultimate Alliance hard to put down.
  
  Gameplay works similar to the X-Men: Legends game, although the RPG character customization elements 
 have been stripped down significantly. Much of the skill and equipment allotment is handled by 
 the game by default, and there is no longer the ability to manually allot points in attributes 
 (which in some cases can cause some rather problematic character stats) . The player once again 
 leads a team of four heroes (with over 20 to choose from) and can switch between which one he or 
 she controls on the fly. The PC version of course has keyboard support, though it is nowhere near 
 as comfortable as using a gamepad. For the most part, the AI tends to work well as a team, although 
 it has its occasional dimwitted moments. The game also seems to have some issues in planning out 
 how to auto-allot skill points, and since every character has it on by default, it can damage a 
 bit of a players planning if it lays down some irreversible changes before the ability to turn 
 it off is accessible for a character. Besides a few glaring issues with the AI (and a couple problems 
 with certain input devices) , the gameplay is solid.
  
  As far as graphics, Ultimate Alliance is definitely a looker. The range of compatibility is decent, 
 and has a bit of customization to the detail. When cranked out, it really shines (and for the low-end 
 systems, it has a look similar to X-Men Legends 2) . Some older Direct X 9 cards seem to have a 
 bit of stability issues, but most of them can be overcome with a little work. Another nice touch 
 to the graphics is the little details in both the level design and the model animations. From the 
 fluid fight sequences to Blade biting his opponents before he throws them, there is a lot to take 
 in (and if one is just playing through, can be easily missed) .
  
  The sound is very well done as well. The voice acting sounds professional, and the character chatter 
 during gameplay really gives the whole presentation personality. The music works well with Ultimate 
 Alliance, especially as it fluidly changes with the environment and intensity of the action. Effects 
 sound great as well, tying up the whole sound portion of the game nicely.
  
  Overall, the game is one that is memorable (and especially great with friends over a network) . 
 Besides a few scattered glitches that can be a bit troublesome, Ultimate Alliance is a beast that 
 should not be just passed by without a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redangelus
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 5, 2006 12:15 am PT
Review:  Marvel ultimate alliance is a nice game but it lacks that special thing. At first sight it it's 
 a X-Men Legends 2 clone with the marvel heroe. It does not bring anytinhg new but some insdignificant 
 features, some of which are strresfull like the boss fights where you have to press the buttonws 
 shown on screen to win. For gamepad owners this should not be a problem but form keybords user 
 is difficult. the story is not bad and the animation between acts are actually very good. But besides 
 that i can't name another thing that impressed me. A good game for consoles but pretty bad for 
 pc's. If it had new features it would have been a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: owenx
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 1, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  I've played the previous versions of this game (x-men legends 1 and 2) and this one has a great 
 improve into the gameplay while keeping the 4 player heroes theme that were the key to success.
 
  
  When you install the game it takes some time, but then the time you spent looking at the bar goes 
 away, you see those nice videos from the trailers and the story begins.
  
  You start with wolvy, spidey, thor and the Cap not my avengers favorite team but still a good one, 
 the hit and smash buttons either keyboard/mouse has a great improve from the previous versions, 
 however what i do see in the new combos is that you have less combos than in x-men legends 2, but 
 the variety of chars kinda compensate that lack of combos.
  
  The other thing that i see its kinda unpleasant as in the previous versions and not yet improved 
 (as it should be) is the multiplayer experience, you still get a lot of lag but well.. when you 
 find the right partner it becomes fun.
  
  So if you are going to buy this game its a good one go on and try it especially if you are a MARVEL 
 Universe fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nandobcf
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 1, 2006 3:53 am PT
Review:  I would never call this an action RPG. It has nothing that resembles games like Diablo, Divine 
 Divinity or more recent Titan Quest.
  
  However, I found out that it is actually a very enjoyable scrolling beat 'em up in the likes of 
 old arcade games Double Dragon, Final Fight, The Avengers or newer games like LOTR: Return of The 
 King, full of it's console style combos to attack your enemies.
  
  Story is not a big deal though. It is more like an excuse to put every single Marvel comics character 
 into gameplay.
  With a big variety of heroes, villains and scenery, it is also an excellent game for Marvel Super 
 Heroes fans.
  
  Had some problems with the controls at first but fixed it later by changing some of the controls 
 mappings for the PC. It's pretty enjoyable and addictive now.
  
  A good beat 'em up game, but I'm personally still waiting for Diablo III. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neogenweb
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 31, 2006 3:36 pm PT
Review:  ... what adds to the game and style is the variety of characters that are playable, and often how 
 to acquire them. The gameplay itself is nothing new, but it is a style that is well done. And what 
 is even more fun, is that for the first time in a long time a game is multiplayer on the same computer, 
 without a hotseat system, all you need is a couple of controllers.
  
  The good:
  -Good variety of characters
  -Mission long and well thought.
  -Possibility to return to main 
 base when ever you want
  -easy pickup and go system
  -Well tweaked and and oiled system for a stable game
  -Well designed decors and sets
  -Detailed 
 characters with information
  -New Create your own team feature that lets you do what it says.
  -balancing a team is challenge 
 and adds a lot of re-playability
  
  The bad:
  -Frequent problems with soundtrack, although it is dramatic when heard.
  -Redundant quotes from 
 characters get annoying when using the same characters
  -Once you have a team, using anybody else isn't worth it because you lose ALL the bonuses and can't 
 gain reputation.
  -Awful dialog even to corny for a comic world
  
  All in all, this is a great game, if you don't want to buy it, its also a great rental for XBOX 
 and 360... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJ4_majin
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 30, 2006 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Im a big Marvel fan, but trust me when I say that this review is of the game and not of the idea 
 (which by the way totally kicks candy ass) . The game play has very few differences than the X-men 
 legends series. The sad part is that you can only wear 1 item at a time. The rest is pretty much 
 the same old (hey why change what isnt broken) : a very easy and learnable game which provides 
 you with a lot of fun and stress relief. Its the kind of game-play that just makes you go on and 
 on. Best way to describe it: easy and fun. Party is still made out of four people, and special 
 combinations will give you special bonuses. In addition My Team option has been added: you create 
 your own team of heroes (at first only 4 members) and they will recieve bonuses. Your team will 
 level up by reputation. With each new reputation level gained you will add to your team bonus. 
 The story is quite bold in comparison to X-men Legends 1 and 2. As the X-men games could be considered 
 episodes, Ultimate Alliance clearly tries to be a main event in the Marvel Universe having more 
 than a couple of deaths in it, heroes and villain alike. It starts with Dr Doom invading the well 
 play the game and find out, Im not about to spoil an A+ grade story. As far as sound come, the 
 voices are great (except Baron Mordo, they could have done a lot better) . Every characters voice 
 is perfect for his personality. If during the game you have a specific character in your team you 
 can witness special conversations with villains or other NPCs. Music is not that great: has a few 
 bugs :starting up when its not suppose to at a very high level. The graphics are not something 
 special. There just enough to be nice for the game. Enough said So if youre a Marvel fan PLAY 
 THIS GAME!! If not, PLAY THIS GAME!! Kidding. This is a game that deserves your attention, and 
 I do recommend it to anyone that wants to have fun and enjoy a lot Marvel Action.
  
  P. S. Here's a tip from me to you: try and use all the upgrades on 1 single character. The rest 
 of your party has low damage and high Defence no matter what. You will be the damage dealer and 
 you will also take a lot of damage. (yes you still can switch between party members but i recomende 
 you stick to a hero) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
