-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Massive Assault
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/massiveassault/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 30, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 8.1, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 82 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Matrix Games
Developer: Wargaming. net
Genre: Sci-Fi Turn-Based...
Date:     Oct 28, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Even though Massive Assault is fairly easy to learn and is very user-friendly, it can be excessively 
 difficult, sometimes putting an end to the fun as soon as it begins. 

  Here's something different: Wargaming. net's Massive Assault looks like a 3D real-time strategy 
 game but plays like a streamlined turn-based wargame -- or a souped-up version of chess. While it 
 might look simplistic, at first, it actually requires careful thinking and offers some entertaining 
 gameplay. Unfortunately, even though Massive Assault is fairly easy to learn and is very user-friendly, 
 it can be excessively difficult, sometimes putting an end to the fun as soon as it begins.  

          Massive Assault takes you by the hand without babying you.     

  If you were to glance 
 at Massive Assault, you might assume it was a knockoff of the classic real-time strategy game Total 
 Annihilation. Like Total Annihilation, Massive Assault does feature an overhead view of little 
 units on 3D terrain, as well as a generic science fiction setting with two rival powers. That's 
 pretty much where the similarities end though. Massive Assault is actually a turn-based game, and 
 while you don't see hexes all over the map, Massive Assault is, in essence, a hex-based game. Whenever 
 you select a unit, little circles light up on the map, revealing a grid of potential movement destinations. 
 A large red circle also appears to show the extent of your selected unit's weapons range.  

  During each turn, you first move your units in any order, choosing from their available grid 
 positions. The game takes on a chesslike feel, since each type of unit can only move a particular 
 number of grid spaces each turn. Additionally, ground units can't move through an occupied space. 
 This makes coordinating your forces, and effectively blocking enemy units, quite tricky. To make 
 things more complex, only certain units can fire over friendly units.  

  After you've made your moves, you can instruct each unit to fire on the enemies of your choice, 
 if they're in range. Then you click a button to end your turn, after which the smart, aggressive 
 AI works through its moves and attacks. You can watch these moves at different speeds or simply 
 skip to the end of the turn to see the results without watching all the movement and combat animations. 

  You get to fight with bristling battleships, clomping mechs, sleek bombers, and more. Vehicles 
 break down into air, ground, sea, and amphibious units, and you also get fixed defensive towers. 
 Each unit has just a few straightforward stats, and each side has equivalent units that merely 
 differ cosmetically.  

  Massive Assault is about more than just the tactics of moving units around. There are interesting 
 strategic elements, too, like deciding exactly what units to purchase when, as you have only limited 
 revenues from certain territories. Another strategic twist is the way you select your starting 
 territories, out of a number of possibilities, and then get to reveal secret allied territories 
 as the match progresses. Your choices can dramatically change the ebb and flow of combat on each 
 map, adding replayability.  

  One of the great things about Massive Assault is its user-friendliness. As long as you haven't 
 clicked the button that ends your turn, you can undo all your moves and attacks. Everything just 
 rewinds: damaged units become whole again, a disembarked unit is suddenly back on a transport, 
 and so forth. Because of Massive Assault's chesslike feel, you'll probably find yourself taking 
 full advantage of this undo feature to test different tactics. You'll need to do a lot of experimenting 
 to figure out the best ways to: bring units within firing range, maneuver units through tight spaces, 
 screen particularly valuable units, outflank the enemy, and so forth.  

  Massive Assault does a great job of making your life easier in other ways too. The interface is 
 unusually clear, and a lot of optional gameplay aids help keep you on track. For example, if you 
 click to finish a turn but forgot to order a unit to attack, the game will ask if you really want 
 to proceed. Each scenario begins with an introduction that clearly explains your goals with colorful 
 pointers and text boxes. One of the most important gameplay aids also illustrates one of the game's 
 defining features: Each unit type has a fixed number of hit points, and its weapons always cause 
 a fixed amount of damage. Icons clearly let you know the exact status of all units' remaining hit 
 points, and they remind you precisely how much damage a potential attack will do. There's no randomness 
 or guesswork here, just careful planning.  

  Sadly, despite these play aids, Massive Assault can become really frustrating at times. The tutorial 
 missions are underdeveloped, teaching only the basics of movement and combat. Fortunately, you 
 get a lengthy series of graded scenarios that introduce different combat situations by simply throwing 
 you into the fray. Despite being labeled as "easy," "medium," or "hard," the difficulty levels 
 are all over the map. More than a few engagements are almost impossibly tough. Unfortunately, there's 
 no way to adjust the AI's skill level in these scenarios, and you can't do it in the game's two 
 campaign-style modes either -- which is something you'd expect from nearly any game.  

          It's a generic, yet pretty, game world.     

  Fortunately, you can get around this 
 by finding a human opponent whose skills match your own. Massive Assault offers both hotseat and 
 Internet skirmish games. The latter is akin to a play-by-e-mail system, but the game automates 
 the process for you, letting you challenge opponents (who are ranked by wins) by sending turns 
 through a very smooth interface.  

  Stylistically, Massive Assault leaves something to be desired. On the one hand, the setting and 
 units feel anonymous and generic. Also, there's only one voice-over artist for the whole game -- a 
 woman with a very heavy Eastern European accent who's burdened by some embarrassingly cheesy dialogue. 
 When you win a match, she might say, in a bored, halting tone, "I will reward  
 you want." On the other hand, despite the overall lack of imagination, the graphics look really 
 sharp and attractive. Everything is vibrantly colored, weapons fire and explosions look dramatic, 
 and lots of little details, like waves lapping against beaches and trees swaying in the breeze, 
 make for some pretty scenes. You can easily zoom, rotate, and pan the camera to get the best view 
 of the action. The music and sound effects (outside of the voice-overs) are, likewise, solid, even 
 if they fail to give the game a unique ambience.  

  Massive Assault is an ironic game. It's fairly easy to learn, offers tons of user-friendly features, 
 and calls to mind classic board games. It's just too bad it doesn't offer a more memorable setting 
 and truly adjustable difficultly levels to suit both beginners and experts alike, because otherwise 
 it can be addictive fun.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: monco59
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 5, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  Massive Assault would be best described as chess on steroids. Even though at first glance the 3D 
 graphics may fool you, this game is a pure hex-based strategy game at heart. It pits two generic 
 science fiction factions against each other in a battle for control of different planets. While 
 the story itself is remarkably unoriginal, the gameplay is anything but.
  
  During your turn, you start out by moving your units in any order, choosing their destinations 
 from the grid, as highlighted by little glowing circles. After the movement part is over, you can 
 direct your units to fire at the enemy (adding a flair of strategy is the fact that only certain 
 units can fire over friendly forces) if theyre in range. After all this is done, you press a button, 
 sit back and let the AI take over. Be warned though, the AI is extremely aggressive, relentless, 
 savvy, ruthless and cunning, all in one package. This is both the games greatest asset and greatest 
 flaw. While its certainly great to get a good challenge out of the AI for once in an RTS, the 
 game quickly bogs down and infuriates the player after he gets his ass handed to him for the umpteenth 
 time. Defeat is the best teacher they say, but no enjoys a losing streak after losing streak after 
 losing streak...
  
  The game has a number of cool additions that certainly add flair to the proceedings. For example, 
 you always have a set of secret allies that appear neutral to the enemy until you decide to reveal 
 their true colors. This makes the game somewhat paranoid, but in a good way. You never know when 
 a previously neutral country turns from an easy source of revenue to a bitter battlefield. Also, 
 since your units move at wildly varying speeds and cant traverse occupied space, strategic planning 
 and execution really plays a part.
  
  Adding to the games allure is its intuitive and user-friendly interface. Before you end your 
 turn the game always asks for confirmation, just in case there was something you overlooked. Even 
 better, the game also features a handy undo-button that basically rewinds everything. Destroyed 
 units are brought back to life, lost resources are accumulated again and bonehead moves are undone 
 just like that. While it may seem a bit cheap to hardcore players, even they will learn to appreciate 
 the feature when the AI really ramps up the difficulty. This way you can experiment different tactics 
 with different units without having to have to worry about losing the match.
  
  Graphically Massive Assault is definitely pretty for a turn-based hex strategy game. While that 
 may not be saying much, youll come to appreciate the smooth animations, detailed units and vibrant 
 worlds. But on the flipside, the game feels very generic. Even though units are detailed, they 
 lack any true variety, even between factions. The same applies for the setting.
  
  Continuing on this path of mediocrity is the games audio. While not bad, everything from massive 
 battleships firing to stealthy bombers streaking across the sky sound lackluster and fail to infuse 
 the game with any sense of uniqueness. Adding insult to injury, the game has one of the most horrible 
 voice-overs Ive ever heard. You essentially get one voice-over artist for the entire game. Too 
 bad then that its a woman with a very heavy Eastern European accent, who lacks any emotion or 
 depth. Add to this a cheesy dialogue and you just may want to unplug your speakers when playing 
 Massive Assault.
  
  Massive Assault is a mixed bag really. On one hand it offers some genuinely interesting and solid 
 strategy action, but on the other youve got a difficulty level thats way too high no matter if 
 you set it on Low, some uninspired design and even worse audio. Still, fans of turn-based strategy 
 games will most likely find plenty to like about this game, and to them its ultimately a solid 
 choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChickenMcBastrd
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 27, 2006 6:37 pm PT
Review:  As featured on loadedinc. com...
  
  Enter the world of Massive Assault, Wargaming. nets foray into turn-based strategy games. Dont 
 let this inexperience fool you though as Massive Assault is a solid game with some very good gameplay 
 and user-friendly features.
  
  The premise of Massive Assault is your typical good vs. evil scenario. Way in the distant future 
 the galaxy consists of two rival human forces. There are the democratic (good) guys and the fascist 
 (evil) guys. The story is laid out to you as soon as you start the game. Its long and basically 
 amounts to a woman with a Russian accent reading the text on the screen; good thing for us we can 
 just skip all that and get right into the gameplay. 
  
  The two sides, the Free Nations Union and the Phantom League each sport twelve unique units that 
 span land, sea, and air. There are also defensive turrets for each faction with excellent range 
 and even better armor. The units themselves all have stats displayed for movement capabilities, 
 amount of armor, attack range, and attack power. The graphics for the units and the names differ 
 but the units are essentially a mirror of each other on both sides. This doesnt cause the game 
 any harm however as Massive Assault can easily be compared to a board game; chess immediately comes 
 to mind. Any advantage that could be exploited by one side over the other could very easily ruin 
 the game. In that respect I feel it was wise for the developers to keep the sides similar.
  
  There are four different single-player gameplay modes in Massive Assault. The first of these 
 is the training mode which presents you with the basics of movement, defensive and offensive tactics, 
 and resource management. For newcomers to the genre the tutorial serves as a good way to teach 
 them some rudimentary skills. There is also a scenario mode which lets you choose from a few dozen 
 scaled-difficulty levels at any time. This is good considering that some of the missions are challenging 
 and might discourage play at times. World War mode sees players attempt to conquer an entire planet 
 and the Campaign mode boils down to a scaled down version of the scenario mode. In World War mode 
 you can choose between the two sides and battle it out for good or evil.
  
  As was mentioned before, Massive Assault is a turn-based game. Each side has a phase in which you 
 will get to do several things. First and foremost you get to move your units around. Massive Assault 
 uses a hex system which brings back fond memories of Blue Bytes old Battle Isle series. Clicking 
 on the unit brings up a series of points where the unit can move. Once moved, if any enemies are 
 within range of its weapons it can fire. Certain terrains like the desert or forested areas can 
 restrict your movement. For example, if a unit can normally move two hexes on grassy fields it 
 will only be able to move one hex on a desert plain. This inclusion can allow players to create 
 choke points and pull off some clever maneuvers with ranged weaponry.
  
  After moving your units around you will be introduced to the purchasing phase which will allow 
 you to spend any resourcesthat are accumulated automatically but for a limited time by your controlled 
 cities. During this phase you can scroll through the available units and place them anywhere in 
 your controlled territory. There is also the disclose phase which gives you the opportunity to 
 make a secretly allied nation a publicly allied nation complete with money and more units on the 
 battlefield. This phase only happens though when your enemy invades a neutral or secretly allied 
 (to you) nation.
  
  At any moment during a phase you dont feel comfortable with your decisions you can backtrack and 
 do them all over again. This is one party of Massive Assault that lends some user-friendliness 
 to the game. Provided you dont end the phase you can cancel attack orders already given and turn 
 back the clock. Any damage done or units destroyed will be instantly repaired and any movements 
 made will be cancelled. Once you hit the End Phase button though thats the end of your turn.
 
  
  At the end of your turn its the computers turn to deal out some damage and boy does it ever. The 
 AI in Massive Assault can be described as extremely aggressive; cynics might even say the computer 
 has a grudge against you. Its very important to keep in mind that you probably wont complete 
 a mission on the first try; especially not the ones rated hard or even medium. The AI will make 
 very efficient use of its ranged units and will even attempt to flank you if the opportunity presents 
 itself. As was mentioned before, Massive Assault can be described as a game of chess and the AI 
 is easily Bobby Fischer.
  
  Massive Assault sports a 3D engine like that of any other modern strategy title. There is excellent 
 use of lighting in the horizons and the water effects are particularly done well. Each unit has 
 a distinct and decently-detailed model. While the graphics wont win any awards for breaking new 
 ground the developers made excellent use of what they had to work with. The engine comes with a 
 fully functioning 3D camera which can be rotated to any angle you wish and zoomed in and out. You 
 have the ability of toggling a lot of the options like shadows, visual quality, and resolution 
 also.
  
  The sound in Massive Assault is a drawback and tends to be a bit bland at times. The announcer 
 sports a Russian accent and doesnt say anything too inspiring. Some of the dialogue is inaudible 
 at times and sounds a bit forced. Massive Assault features a full soundtrack which various synthesized 
 tunes. The tracks themselves do the game justice and are a good listen when youre crushing the 
 enemy.
  
  Multiplayer can be played through hot-seat mode which is basically a two-player at one computer 
 mode and also through a very simplistic internet mode. Its not much but it will give you a way 
 to find other human players when the AI gets to be a little too much.
  
  Massive Assault has a lot of appeal for strategy fans and even is functional for newcomers as well. 
 The challenging AI will give you a run for your money and even though it can be frustrating at 
 times the feeling of accomplishment is all the more worth it. Overall its just a fun game that 
 is definitely worth the purchase.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: storm440
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 10, 2005 8:19 pm PT
Review:  When i first started playing massive assault, like most, i played against the computer . As with 
 most games, the AI soon became preditable and i was about to lose interest. I then started online 
 play and within a short time all my other gaming stopped. The mental challange is absolutely awsome 
 because people are so unpredictable and there are so many variables to consider. Every move creates 
 different options and winning or loseing is not dictated by who has the fastest reflexes and best 
 layout of hot keys. You actually have to think about what you are trying to do and how to counter 
 what your enemy is doing. Yes, sometimes the country layout may not be even, but most of the time 
 both players have a fairly equal chance to win and the win usually goes to the player with the 
 best stratigy. There are "mentor" games offered to newbees, or you can just jump in, take your 
 lumps and learn new methods as you go, because what you learn playing against the computer AI will 
 not enable you to beat the better players. I have more hours in playing this game than all other 
 games i have owned and i give it a resounding 10. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
