-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mass Effect
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/masseffect/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 All the awesome stuff that made Mass Effect on the 360 great.
 Tech/Biotic power hotkeys make combat fast and fluid.
 Numerous small improvements add up nicely.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Still hampered by graphical hitches.
 Brief, intermittent load screens.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 30, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 9.0, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 5,719 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: BioWare
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date:     May 28, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Streamlined combat and numerous minor improvements make this great game even better. 

  When Mass Effect was originally released last November on the Xbox 360, it unveiled a vast, beautiful 
 galaxy populated by diverse, fascinating alien races. Players stepped onto this stage as Commander 
 Shepard, a hero at the vanguard of humanity's ascension in the arena of galactic politics, and 
 thus began an epic story bolstered by engaging characters and rich, branching dialogue. Exciting 
 combat and robust skill management completed the package, but it was not without flaws. Many small 
 issues have been addressed in the PC release, and the result is a more streamlined, more playable 
 version of one of the best role-playing games in recent memory.  

  The bulk of Mass Effect remains the same, so for our thoughts on the story, character customization, 
 dialogue, quest structure, and combat abilities, please read our  review of the 360 version.  This 
 review will focus on the PC experience and how it differs from console play.  

           Biotic powers are still rockin' awesome.      

  None of the changes are drastic overhauls, 
 but they do have an appreciable effect on the gameplay. One of the biggest tweaks is to the combat 
 system. In the 360 version, you have to temporarily pause the action to use any weapons or biotic/tech 
 powers beyond the one you currently have equipped. On the PC, this pause is still available, but 
 weapons and powers have been consolidated onto one screen, along with squad commands which you 
 can now issue inidividually. Pressing the space bar will bring up a heads-up display where you 
 can change weapons or powers and issue commands to your squad. Odds are you'll use this pause very 
 rarely, because your weapons are mapped to the function keys and your biotic/tech powers can be 
 assigned to the number keys.  

  Without frequent pauses, Mass Effect further distances itself from the ponderous, tactical feel 
 of combat in previous BioWare role-playing games. Instead, it feels like a bona fide third-person 
 action title. Gunning down small groups of enemies while barely breaking a stride is still immensely 
 satisfying, as is blasting your way out of larger pitched battles -- only now you can unleash multiple 
 tech or biotic attacks on the fly. You can dart out from cover, take down enemies' shields, and 
 explode their weapons -- all while shooting them -- and be back behind cover in a matter of seconds. 
 The real reward of this faster, more fluid action is the sense of power it imbues. Wielding your 
 formidable abilities with ease really makes you feel like the badass warrior you were meant to 
 be, and it makes combat more exciting and fun.  

  Unfortunately, all those tech and biotic power animations flying around can cause the frame rate 
 to suffer on less than godly computers. This will really only happen during battles with numerous 
 foes, and though it isn't much more than a brief stumble, it's distracting. Slightly more distracting 
 are the frequent in-game load screens. Masked by long elevator rides on the 360, load times have 
 actually decreased in length but increased in frequency for the PC version. Elevator rides are 
 shorter, but you'll often be ambushed by a two- to four-second pause (the screen dims and a small 
 "loading" icon appears) when you're coming up on a battle or entering a new area. Again, these 
 pauses are brief enough that they don't bring things to a screeching halt, but they are a bit of 
 a nuisance.  

  A few other tweaks have positive effects on the game. The inventory system is much easier to manage 
 with a mouse and keyboard, and long lists of items won't reset to the top every time you sell something 
 near the bottom. The Mako vehicle sequences are easier to manage thanks to the implementation of 
 dedicated forward and reverse buttons in place of the 360 version's viewpoint-dependent controls. 
 A new hacking and decrypting minigame, in place of the old button-matching one, is both more interesting 
 and more suited to the game: You must move a small arrow through concentric circles to reach the 
 core while avoiding stationary and rotating barriers. It's generally easy to accomplish once you 
 get the hang of it, but the time limit and tricky perspective shifting help keep it entertaining. 
 Keyboard hotkeys allow quick access to the map and squad upgrade screens, and the quicksave button 
 is a great way to ensure you won't have to do too much backtracking. They aren't big changes, but 
 the aggregate benefit is definitely noticeable.  

           Krogans. Why'd it have to be Krogans?      

  All the things that made Mass Effect 
 great on the 360 -- the story, the conversations, the galaxy, the combat, the soundtrack, and the 
 characters -- are still great on the PC. The changes that have been implemented don't radically alter 
 the game in any way, but they have enough of a positive impact to make it easy to recommend the 
 PC version over the 360 version. On top of that, BioWare is offering the downloadable expansion 
 "Bring Down the Sky" free to PC players, though at the time of this review that content was not 
 yet available. Whether you're a seasoned Spectre looking to suit up again, or a newcomer who has 
 never set foot on the Normandy, the refined PC version is your best choice for experiencing this 
 excellent game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (335 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 16, 2009 6:41 am PT
Review:  Being very leery of BioWare and their one trick pony writers, I went into Mass Effect with low 
 expectations despite all of the hype surrounding it. Since my expectations were so low I can't 
 say I was disappointed, but I wasn't exactly satisfied after finishing the game either.
  
  Set in the distant future only twenty six years after humanity made first contact with intelligent 
 alien life, you assume the role of Commander Bobo Shepard. Yes, you can customize his or her first 
 name, but what could be better than Bobo? After customizing Shepard you're greeted by a cinematic 
 intro. The storyline is pretty good, particularly for a BioWare plotline, but it has quite a few 
 problems that shouldn't be present in a western RPG.
  
  The most prominent issue I have, is that Shepard didn't feel like my character. Shepard's personality 
 is pretty set in stone, he or she is a dull soldier-type and unlike past BioWare games you can't 
 shape his or her personality. Part of this is because the dialogue system is dumbed down, and the 
 character is 100% voice acted. You can make dialogue "choices", but the options are very vague 
 and often don't resemble what Shepard actually says, sometimes these dialogue decisions feel pointless 
 because Shepard says the exact same thing no matter what you choose. When I play a western RPG, 
 I expect to be able to fully customize the main character and play him as I see fit, this isn't 
 possible in Mass Effect as Commander Shepard is on rails in both personality and direction. The 
 closest you can come to shaping Shepard's personality is deciding whether he's racist or not, which 
 also effects whether he's a "Paragon" or "Renegade". Essentially, good or evil.
  
  Mass Effect's gameplay is pretty straight forward. It's mostly a third person shooter with some 
 simplified RPG and inventory elements. Not BioShock simplified, you still have an inventory, and 
 you do actually have skills you place points into. Base stats are curiously absent, though, and 
 the inventory system is the same universal "weightless" inventory present in BioWare's previous 
 Knights of the Old Republic and Jade Empire. The combat can actually be entertaining, unfortunately 
 you spend way too much time listening to other characters talk that combat takes up only a small 
 portion of the game.
  
  Visually ME is pretty good as it uses the third generation Unreal engine. There's also some optional 
 special effects like motion blur and film grain which I disabled, film grain may add to the cinematic 
 feel for some folks but I prefer a crystal clear picture. As far as audio, the game is hit and 
 miss. The voice acting is top of the line as folks have come to expect from BioWare releases, unfortunately 
 the music is pretty bland and forgettable which is disappointing after Jack Wall's wonderful music 
 score for Jade Empire. I'm surprised really, I've enjoyed Jack Wall's work since Myst III: Exile, 
 but his Mass Effect score seemed to sputter and die. Part of this may be because he co-composed 
 with someone else, though.
  
  Mass Effect, yeah I'd say that it's a good third person shooter with a lot of words. A good role 
 playing game? If it were a Japanese RPG I suppose, but in a western RPG I feel that it's a must 
 to feature a protagonist that the player can completely customize. Unfortunately Shepard's personality 
 is defined from the get go and is not very flexible beyond his opinion of aliens, and while Mass 
 Effect is a solid game it's flaws like this that bring it down.
  
  + Good storyline
  + Great combat system
  + Excellent voice acting, as usual
  + Nice visuals
  
  - Pre-defined 
 main character with a set in stone personality
  - Fully voiced protagonist
  - Dumbed down dialogue system
  - Average musical score 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cravenlevay
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 12, 2009 10:56 am PT
Review:  This game would have been great if the storyline was not just so linear. When will these companies 
 learn that we want options so the game is not the same for everyone? Why do we have to just go 
 with this linear crap. There is a reason Fallout 3 is the best game right now because of the open 
 world is gives you to run around in so it is not the same experience as everybody else. So the 
 graphics are tip top as well as the game play and everything else but come on you guys are boring 
 me to death with such linear story lines! Is this so hard to understand. Open exploration games 
 always get 9's and up. Oblivion is one of the very best because there are so many different ways 
 to play the game as it is as un-linear as a game gets. Bioware please learn this lesson from Bethesda 
 because they are the best in the business. So in conclusion if you like linear story lines then 
 this is a 10 and if you like a open world to explore then this is a dud! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbqbod
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 12, 2009 10:23 am PT
Review:  I think all the high score reviews are way over the mark. This game is linear and just plain boring.
 
  
  On the plus side I can say it has nice design/graphics, and superb voice acting and dialogue. The 
 story is also intricate and fairly gripping. It does have good atmosphere that keeps you oddly 
 involved. For me, it was like I was always thinking 'When is this game going to start getting good'? 
 
  
  However, the game never really gets going. It takes hours and hours before any real action takes 
 place and when it does take place you don't really feel like you are any part of it. 
  
  The whole experience is like taking part in a big manga style movie with lots of cut sequences 
 and the chance to shape your personality through dialogue choices and options. That might be fine 
 for most people but personally I like to get down and dirty with the action, and I also like to 
 have an open arena as in Fallout 3 or Oblivion. This game is linear like an old skool FPS, but 
 without even the chance to really blow stuff away with satisfaction. it all feels strangely hollow 
 and distant. There is no sneaking about and stealth involved. Enemy AI is useless. 
  
  The more I played the game, the more it felt like the console port it is. Its not a bad game by 
 any means, but it has no 'wow' factor at all and is ultimately so boring. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillerEcho
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2009 3:58 pm PT
Review:  I have to confess: I wasn't too enthused about this game at first viewing. Despite the stellar 
 reviews, my initial impression was that this is going to be another futuristic sci-fi drift, full 
 of cliches and hackneyed plots. To be sure, I'm not entirely wrong about that. But smart and nuanced 
 execution, as well as top-notch production values, help turn a somewhat boilerplate story into 
 a great game.
  
  The basics first. Mass Effect is an action RPG. You assume the charge of a space marine named Shepard. 
 Like any other roleplayer, you get to choose character class, skills, and equipment as you go around 
 killing stuff, completing quests and gaining experience. You'll have a number of allies/henchmen, 
 2 of which can accompany you at any given time. The game uses its own system of rules and regs 
 concerning character advancement and battle/interaction mechanics. Battles are fought in real time 
 from an FPS perspective. Therefore, although you can pause the action and plot out each move in 
 advance, battles in Mass Effect are not waged on a turn-by-turn basis, as in Knights of the Old 
 Republic. Here, manual dexterity counts, as do quick reflexes. 
  
  At each level-up, you are given 2 points with which to invest in the many skills available to your 
 character. Some of these are class-specific, while others are unlockable by advancement in other 
 skill trees. Though there are a lot of choices, by the time you reach the level cap in the game 
 (60) , you'll have maxed out most of the important stuff. Indeed, unless you're thoroughly incompetent, 
 Shepard should be pretty uber in the latter half of the game, with only certain boss battles offering 
 any sort of a challenge. Cranking up the difficulty might make things more interesting.
  
  Continuing in the manner of Bioware's past RPG's like KOTOR or Neverwinter Nights, the world of 
 Mass Effect is explored mostly through character interaction and conversation. For every situation 
 there are multiple dialogue options, and your choices determine how that particular scenario plays 
 out. Generally speaking however, the consequences of these exchanges are fairly localized - only 
 at certain points of the game will you need to decisions which have a lasting impact. In a departure 
 from the past, dialogue options in Mass Effect are no longer spelled out verbatim in front of you, 
 but rather as thoughts or mentalities. For example, instead of putting out "I' go where I please 
 and neither you nor the council is going to stop me" in its entirety, the option that triggers 
 this line might simply read: "Get out of my way." 
  
  Setting and character designs are definitely one of the game's strengths. While elements can be 
 heavily derivative from other sci-fi sources, including Bioware's own, there's usually some quirk 
 or nuance that sets them apart. The turians are particularly well done. I liked the Krogans as 
 well. There's an eye for detail and narrative that conveys a sense of connectivity in Mass Effect's 
 universe, which ultimately makes it come to life. NPC's and your crew brim with personality, thanks 
 to well-written dialogue and top-quality voiceovers. Sci-fi vets and fans of Bioware's past work 
 alike are sure to recognize some of the voices. 
  
  Visuals and animation in the game are spot on. The engine can be somewhat demanding however, and 
 may give slower/older video cards a hard time. With the appropriate hardware to support maxed-out 
 settings, Mass Effect is a beautiful game to play, whether you're stalking sterile ship corridors 
 or roving across the lunar surface against the backdrop of a meteor shower or planning your next 
 move along a stormy beachhead on a verdant jungle world. A suitably epic and sweeping orchestral 
 score completes the package, making for an immersive experience in which you can easily lose hours.
 
  
  Now some gripes. As I mentioned, the overarching story is not all that inspired, although again, 
 details and execution save it from tanking. Without giving too much away, the premise is basically 
 another variation of the "Soulless enemy seeking to purge all life as we know it" tune. It explores 
 familiar themes - good vs evil, law vs justice, end vs means, prejudice vs equality - and also 
 employs some very predictable plot twists. Basically, there is precious little here that gaming 
 and sci-fi mavens haven't seen before. 
  
  While the gameplay is mostly good, and you ostensibly have free reign over an entire section of 
 the galaxy in your latest and greatest prototype spaceship, so very many of the planets you get 
 to explore on side quests are simply cut and paste jobs down to the layout of the enemy base. Every 
 planetary side mission can be summed up thusly: You land on an uncharted planet in your rover, 
 you roam around for a while looking for points of interest, you find the enemy base, you waltz 
 inside and destroy everything that moves, you find the data/hostages/item, you return to the ship. 
 This may not seem all that bad until you realize there are about a dozen more missions just like 
 it, with barely a wallpaper change between them. This is the one aspect of the game where the developers 
 could have done much, much better.
  
  The rest are minor. A few of the scenes get a little hammy, even schmaltzy.
  Vile colors still 
 plague some armors rendering them unwearable to all but the most self-loathing players. Rare glitching 
 and graphical issues can be an annoyance but nothing more. Nitpicking aside, due to its satisfying 
 combat, strong characterization and outstanding presentation, Mass Effect is a rich and enthralling 
 experience with plenty of replay value - but I'm not going through the side quests again. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Biklak
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2009 8:57 am PT
Review:  I have been playing games for a long time and i have been waiting for this sort of impact for a 
 long time, lets say last time i felt this good about a game was probably back with the original 
 releases of Deus Ex and Half-Life.
  
  The game takes place on a beautifully crafted universe, the plot is deep, very rich, intense and 
 nothing short of a literary sci-fi masterpiece. The way the story unravels, makes you very gripped 
 and attached to the game, giving you the feeling that with each decision you make, you are shaping 
 the future of the universe.
  
  The moral system is great and originates some of the most brilliant character interaction in recent 
 memory, creating some really golden moments throughout the game and making you want to come back 
 after you finished it.
  
  Combat system is fun and diverse, you can play a lot of different classes, each one with its own 
 strengths on the way you approach combat.
  
  This is a very intelligent game, carefully thought out from the 1st second to the finishing credits, 
 a joy and a pleasure to play. Bioware are with no doubt one of the best studios out there, you 
 can really feel the guys who made this game poured their hearts and souls into it.
  
  Most games coming out nowadays are technically flawless but once you play for 30 min they just 
 feel bland and empty, most with 20 min of gunplay and a fancy cut scene by the end of it.
  
  Mass Effect might not be the most brilliant technically advanced game out there, but it sure 
 makes up on the total experienced which feel organic, and every minute of gameplay worthwhile, 
 an absolute must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VENOM192
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is simply amazing with a stunning universe to explore, high resolution and textures, 
 excellent gameplay and a great storyline that will make you want to play this game over, over and 
 over! As Commander Shepard, you lead an elite squad on a heroic, action-packed adventure throughout 
 the galaxy, to save civilization from an ancient threat you have to shoot, talk, run, drive, jump, 
 melee, jump, hide and blast your way thru Saren and his deadly army. The fate of the galaxy is 
 in your hands. In Mass Effect you will be able to choose from a wide variety of classes like Soldier-Combat 
 Specialist, Engineer-Tech Specialist, Adept-Biotic Specialist, Infiltrator-Combat/Tech and Sentinel-Biotic/Tech 
 (If you want help to decide what class is best, just go to Gamespot's gameguide) . But there is 
 a fair amount of loading times in Mass Effect, but you'll easily look it over because it's such 
 a good game, and remember to save quite frequently because even if Mass Effect has auto save, it 
 doesn't save frequently enough. I recommend this game highly if you loved Fallout 3 and even if 
 you haven't played Fallout 3I still recommend it!!! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bachilders
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2009 4:06 pm PT
Review:  I really felt like I was playing a movie most of the time, the presentation and polish was just 
 so good. 
  The game looks excellent and ran very well on max settings on my 8800gts and 5600+. The only problems 
 were occasional freezes, but i quicksaved about every 5 minutes, so it wasn't a huge deal. The 
 story was outstanding, the setting fantastic (greatly fleshed out in the novels, highly recommended 
 reading) , and the characters felt very human (except the aliens...) A few elements didn't make 
 since such as why aliens are speaking English all the time and early on the story was a bit muddy, 
 but I can't give this game anything less than a 9.5 because of that. If you like video games, sci-fi 
 books, movies, or even if you don't, Mass Effect is a great game that shows how much games can 
 accomplish while embarrassing the competition. (As Bioware always does) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gelugon_baat
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2009 12:07 am PT
Review:  My first impression upon seeing the poster for this game was that it is yet another space opera. 
 With a market already saturated with Star Wars titles and (bad) Star Trek ones, not to mention 
 numerous off-shoots and inspired titles, it may well be a goner with a title like "Mass Effect". 
 That was before I noticed that BioWare is the developer for this game. My next thought was that 
 why would BioWare want to do a space opera RPG, when there is already Knights of the Old Republic.
 
  
  The trailers and other videos were the next media that I looked at. They enthralled me right away, 
 with their very cinematic qualities. What engrossed me even more was BioWare's promise to retain 
 these qualities in actual gameplay. Moreover, whatever snippets of information there was on Mass 
 Effect suggested that the theme and settings for Mass Effect will be rather different from those 
 of classics Star Wars and Star Trek, with much more intrigue and -*gasp*- racial tensions.
  
  Needless to say, BioWare delivered. While the core of the gameplay revolves around a small 
 squad of heavily armed bipedal lifeforms with RPG traits, which were not exactly a new idea as 
 it had been done, the gameplay was without any quirks and was surprisingly fluid. BioWare successfully 
 blended all the good aspects of modern day shooters (cover, regenerative health/shield system, 
 aiming trade-offs etc.) with RPG elements that would be relevant to the theme. There is no annoying 
 dice rolls and the effects of skill very much prevails over the effects of luck here, which is 
 quite a refreshing departure from BioWare's previous efforts.
  
  (Yes, you can guess that I dislike dice, or luck-based gameplay of any other kind. I prefer games 
 with certainties that I can control or at least influence.)
  
  Moreover, BioWare paid a lot of attention to the backstory. The writers wrote very convincing trivia 
 on why mass accelerator weaponry gained prominence over the usual sci-fi space tripe of plasma, 
 laser, blaster and what-have-you arsenals, though in Mass Effect, some of the latter were retained 
 due to very practical reasons (also wrote by the same writers) . Moreover, the writers also wrote 
 good and very reasonable information regarding the sentient races in Mass Effect, namely on why 
 they look the way they look and behave the way they did - some of this info was craftily slipped 
 into dialogues in very effective manner.
  
  In other words, Mass Effect's debuting presentation on its sci-fi theme and setting is, in my opinion, 
 much superior compared to other sci-fi space operas out there, who pretty much treat near-human 
 aliens as a given or had ridiculous bird-like aliens. *Phhfft*
  
  Even the common use of English (which turns out to be Galactic Common in Mass Effect) is well explained 
 in this game.
  
  The story was, as expected, satisfyingly riveting. Players nurtured an attachment to their character, 
 Commander Shephard, perhaps more so for Mass Effect due to his/her stellar voice acting and fantastic 
 expressions and body language. The other characters are deeply interesting, with balanced emotional 
 baggage, inspirations and goals. While interactions with them may seem a little restrained (Shephard 
 cannot talk with them when they are off the ship, unless they come across a scripted location) , 
 they were very rich, perhaps richer than even those in Knights of the Old Republic (likely due 
 to the inclusion of voice acting for the hero/heroine, rather than the seemingly telepathic person 
 - whom everyone else did not notice was communication with facial expressions and can instantly 
 convey messages - in the Star Wars game) .
  
  (This predictably caused a furore when BioWare announced in a trailer that Shephard may well be 
 dead.)
  
  While the combat may not be as brutal and graphic as those in certain other games, it was exhilarating 
 nonetheless. Every class of combatant has skills that can easily turn the tide of battle when used 
 at the right time, though the enemy AI does seem somewhat tardy in this endeavor.
  
  All in all, Mass Effect is a tremendously good game, very worthy of BioWare's caliber, and most 
 importantly, the time and attention of every self-respecting gamer out there.
  
  P. S. Of course, there's Demiurge Studios, but God knows what they did for this game that BioWare 
 cannot do. I assume that they are a money-grubbing subsidiary that Electronic Arts forced onto 
 BioWare to reduce their share of the profits, the f**king greedy idiots.
  
  P. P. S. Looking at BioWare's record, I noticed that there were some poor games unworthy of BioWare's 
 name, such as Sonic Chronicles, and compilations of BioWare's previous games like the one for Baldur's 
 Gate. It's horrible what BioWare is subjected to when it is under the boots of Electronic Arts. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Last years critically acclaimed Mass Effect hit the XBOX 360 hard, giving an amazing RPG experience 
 to owners of the console. Not even a year later, Mass Effect comes to the PC, and is an even better 
 game. Developer BioWare has always been keen on creating a great narrative in their storytelling. 
 Mass Effect is in no surprise on the same route, and this is their greatest story yet. Its an understatement 
 to say this is a great narrative; it's something you're going to need to see for yourself to get 
 the full experience.
  
  As in other role-playing-game of its category, Mass Effect allows you to customize your avatar 
 in depth. You play as Commander Shepard, but you are free to mold him (or her) into any shape you 
 want. You then have a choice of six classes, all of which have various strengths. There is combat, 
 which focuses on arms. Tech, which uses technology to weaken foes. And lastly, there are biotics, 
 which is essentially Mass Effect's version of magic. More importantly, you will choose your autobiographical 
 past. This is important as it changes the dialogue, as this allows you to comment with wisdom, 
 selflessness, and even scorn.
  
  The story is all about the future and space. One surprise is that humanity is not the revolving 
 race of the story. They are more than often looked down upon; they have no seat in the galactic 
 council, nor a representative in the elite special forces, called Spectres. In the meantime, one 
 of these elite soldiers has gone rogue, looting ancient artifacts and unleashing a violent synthetic 
 race know as the Geth, on the unsuspecting galaxy. As Shepard, you must pursue him across space, 
 going from planet to planet attempting to find out what the rogue Spectres plans are.
  
  In BioWare's fashion, you will navigate through loads of dialogue, and how you respond brings varied 
 consequences. This is incredibly cinematic, and feels like your watching a film. The graphics are 
 absolutely beautiful, and a noticeable film grain is added to the game to enhance the cinematic 
 effect. Some of the important conversations that take place will have effects on how your mission 
 plans out. It all plays out in melodrama of political intrigue and some racial discretion, in a 
 galaxy full of fascinating and complex characters. 
  
  The quirks of speeches of some alien races feels somewhat familiar to that of Star Wars, but at 
 the same time dwarfs it, and it makes Mass Effect's vision an excellent one. While navigating through 
 dialogue, you will also earn Paragon or Renegade points depending on how you choose your words. 
 It's your usual light versus dark system, but does not affect the abilities you have. This only 
 affects the outcomes of dialogue and missions. 
  
  The cinematic dialogue is easily one of the highlights of the game, but the combat easily shines 
 as hard. With a Gears of War meets Oblivion type combat system, you will harness a third person 
 view. But beware of mindless rushing towards your foes, as it will earn you a quick trip to the 
 obituaries. Like in Gears of War, you require cover do stand a chance to live, and it's just as 
 effective and entertaining as it is in any other cover-based shooter. You are also accompanied 
 by squad members. They are variations of the starting classes, and the player makes the decision 
 of whom they want to be in the squad of three.
  
  To accompany the gameplay and dialogue, there is a great atmospheric soundtrack and gameplay sounds. 
 Mass Effect is also accompanied by an excellent voice acting cast, Keith David and Robin Atkin 
 Downes to name a couple. These talents make Mass Effect that much more worthwhile of an experience. 
 These talents as well as the audio tracks creates an excellent atmosphere throughout the game.
 
  
  One of the greatest issues with the XBOX 360 version of Mass Effect was the odd controls of the 
 Mako, the APC-like vehicle used to navigate on planet surfaces. They took much time to work correctly, 
 and this made certain difficult encounters even more challenging. Thankfully, controls have been 
 tighten significantly. The mouse and keyboard combination feel right at home.
  
  In the fourth quarter of the year 2007 Mass Effect arrived on the XBOX 360, and became one of the 
 greatest exclusives the console could hope for (And my personal favorite) . Its rich role-playing 
 and incredible dialogue weld together to form an incredible experience, one that should not be 
 missed by any role-playing game fan. Mass Effect is the easily among Oblivion and Fallout 3 as 
 the best role-playing games made, and its unique qualities and long, highly replayable gameplay 
 ensure that its worthy to be a part of any collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YourNobody01
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2009 8:26 pm PT
Review:  I want to remain unbiased in this review, so I tried to tear this game apart and look for any flaws 
 it may have. Let's see how this goes. Also, if you haven't played this game, I suggest you skip 
 over the story section completely.
  
  Story
  I have to tell you that the story kept me guessing at a few parts. I avoided spoilers on the internet 
 like the plague, so my first play-through was a little messy. I honestly wanted to try to saved 
 both Kaiden and Ashley, but in the end I picked Ashley. I just like her more.
  
  It's hard to review the story because it's not the same for everyone who plays it. Your decisions 
 make the story a unique experience. Even the main plot is different depending on your decisions. 
 The fact that your decisions effect the story is what this game is all about. This is the alignment 
 system at a new level. I mean, who was expecting the end of the Paragon story? You know with Saren's 
 choice. You should know what I'm talking about if you've played it. I won't get more specific, 
 in case someone who hasn't played the game read this anyway.
  
  I've heard people complain about all the dialog and the wandering around. Obviously these people 
 are not RPG players. Honestly, they should try playing other RPG's where cutscenes last like 20 
 minutes and all you do the whole game is run around. If you don't like lots of interesting story, 
 dialog, character developments, and game creators that care enough to tell you what's going on... then 
 you're playing the wrong game. In fact, just ignore anything that BioWare comes out with because 
 all their stuff is like that.
  
  Gameplay
  I'm not a fan of shooters. I'll be honest with you on that. Naturally, I wasn't too good during 
 the combat sections of the game. I found the wandering around and talking to people more fun and 
 interesting. That's only because I love RPG games; like it or not, Mass Effect is an RPG.
  
  I have to admit something, though: biotic powers are very satisfying to use and play with. 
 It makes combat at least a bit more exciting than just shooting things. Use Singularity to pull 
 the enemies together and finish off any survivors by mowing them down. It makes the hardest battles 
 in the game easy.
  
  Sound
  The soundtrack in this game is damn amazing. The music fits with the atmosphere and looks of this 
 world that it's uncanny. BioWare was attempting to emulate the atmosphere of an 80's sci-fi movie. 
 They definitely succeeded, except the aliens are much more believable.
  
  Controls
  I played the 360 version, and let me tell you that the PC version is definitely superior in controls. 
 Yeah, you have to use your keyboard and mouse, get over it. It's worth it. The shortcut keys make 
 executing powers so much easier it isn't even funny. No more messing with a clunky menu system. 
 You press a button and it does it for you.
  
  Graphics
  I won't lie to you. This game is graphics-heavy. If you want this game to look nice and you have 
 an older PC, you'll have to be willing to sacrifice your resolution. If your system can handle 
 it, however, you'll be pleased. This game looks great. Just... be sure to look at your Shepard from 
 more than just the straight-on angle during character creation and you'll be fine.
  
  Being able to make your own character... There's so much satisfaction in it. I wonder why more 
 games don't use it. Well, most games try to incorporate some character customization these days, 
 but not much in this kind of system. An improvement in this system would have been choosing body 
 type, height, and other body options, but I guess there is a limit to what is possible.
  
  Conclusion
  This game is awesome. If you like story, if you are an RPG fan, if you like character 
 creation, if you like choose-your-own-adventure books, or whatever... Why haven't you played this 
 game? It's right up your alley. Buy this game. No, I mean it. This game is buy-worthy. If you have 
 a 360, don't rent it. Buy it. The PC version would be better, so you don't have to deal with the 
 battle menus, but to each their own.
  
  Keep in mind that I hate giving away this kind of high score. Maybe someday I can look back at 
 this game more skeptically and give a more accurate score. At the moment, however, I do believe 
 this game deserves a ten out of ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianiangoodman
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2009 7:11 am PT
Review:  My friends, Bioware has done it again. With they're long history of RPG's, The people at Bioware 
 are experts in combining superb gameplay with epic stories. Thia time; in Mass Effect; Bioware 
 has blended shooter style gameplay with RPG style growth and story perfectly, to make their best 
 masterpiece ever. This game will blow you away.
  
  This game is all about letting you call the shots. When in a tough battle, you can have your team 
 switch weapons or use one of their talents, not only to say that you can do that on your own character 
 too. When you level up, you will be able decide where to spend skill points on every character 
 so you can unlock new talents and abilities. During story sequences and normal conversations, you 
 can decide what you character says. He/She can say good things, or bad things, but it s for you 
 to decide. Eventually, you will have your own ship, thus will have control over what planets you 
 visit, what missions you go on, and who comes along with you. You will have so much control over 
 the game elements that it sometimes becomes mind-boggling.
  
  Now lets get technical.
  
  Graphics: 10+
  
  The graphics on this game are superb. However, the game will give you 
 a hard time if you computer is not up to date, so be warned.
  
  Gameplay: 10+
  
  The controls for the game are pretty good. The only problem with them is when you are trying to 
 drive your planet-bound vehicle. However, given the amount of control you have over the gameplay 
 elements, nothing else matters.
  
  Sound: 10+
  
  The voice acting is great, and the music sets the mood as it should. Sound effects are awesome 
 in the game.
  
  Story: 10+
  
  Again, this something you have partial control over. Other than that, this story is one of the 
 best science fiction stories ever.
  
  Overall: 10++
  
  Need I say more! If you are into RPG's, BUY THIS GAME!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alzikar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 11:43 am PT
Review:  From the beginning, your character's history (which you can determine) is integrated within the 
 story and commented on frequently by characters you meet. Your character is rather famous, it turns 
 out, and many factions within the story have expectations of you because of who you are and what 
 you've done in the past.
  
  I really enjoyed interacting with npcs. Their expressions, and hand motions are believable and 
 appropriate. In fact, this is one of the first games I've played where characters react with their 
 entire body and limbs during conversations. When I first saw it I pleasantly surprised and realized 
 just how lacking character interaction in other rpg games is.
  
  The sounds are top notch and so is the music and voice acting. A professional job all around here.
 
  
  Graphics are nicely done, for an RPG. I also like how the squad missions play a more like an FPS 
 instead of an RPG, like Knights of the Old Republic did. I also like how you can fine tune the 
 actions of you squad by pausing the action with the spacebar. This gives the game a nostalgic feel 
 remenicent of Baldur's Gate and Icewind Dale RPG series.
  
  The story is very engaging and interesting and full of twists and turns. A great ride that will 
 last for 60+ hours, easily.
  
  I enjoyed exploring random planets in the mako and assaulting enemy bases and doing emergency help 
 missions for Fleet Command. Their pleas for help really added to the realism of the universe, as 
 if I was really out there exploring and events were happening in real time.
  
  All in all, I think Mass Effect is a masterpiece production, right up there with Knights of the 
 Old Republic, which it closely resembles in gameplay.
  
  Alz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhofever
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2009 11:28 am PT
Review:  One of the best games I've ever played based on a Tactical Strategic Shooter genre. It truly delivers 
 what a real game is meant to be. To start off, the gameplay is very deep, there is a lot to explore, 
 missions to accomplish, planets to visit, people to talk to and so much more. 
  
  Character customisation is pretty cool too, there are over 8 classes to choose from, each and every 
 one of them are very exciting.
  
  The Combat System is very neat. A combination of Gears Of War and KOTOR make it seem more real 
 time and tactical at the same time. The Combat System uses the Gears Of War's cover and shoot tactic.
 
  
  Visuals are very impressive, characters look very life like, the environment designs are fantastic.
 
  
  The best of all I have to say is the storyline. It's like a script taken from an Academy Award 
 sci fi film. BioWare is truly the master of Single player Role Playing games, and perhaps will 
 prove themselves with The Old Republic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perhow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 3:26 am PT
Review:  The setting is class, the plot is fantastic and the graphics are beautiful. But, what makes it 
 really stand out is the dialogue. It meshes perfectly with the whole experience and has some quality 
 voice acting to match. You get a real chance to develop a complex, human character with human motives. 
 The choices you can make are perfectly pitched so as not to disrupt the experience (for example 
 there aren't any 'evil' choices crowbarred in where there shouldn't be) , but give you a grand sense 
 of freedom in choosing how to deal with situations and develop your reputation in the galaxy.
 
  In terms of basic game mechanics (the fighting) , its not revolutionary, but its executed very 
 well, it fits with the flow of the game and it doesn't get tiring across 30 hours or so of play 
 - which is saying a lot. The galaxy is open to explore and this gives you a real sense of freedom 
 and responsibility. The interactions with NPCs and some of the choices you have to make regarding 
 them are extraordinary and I haven't felt such a cohesive sense of 'party' with my fellow NPCs 
 since baldur's gate 2.
  If there's a criticism, it's that there are maybe a few too many ineffectual turrets to blow up 
 on planets across the galaxy.. But that's not enough reason not to recommend this as a fantastic 
 piece of work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sweaty113
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 2:47 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games i have ever played, i have played it for hours and hours on end! 
 The characters are very well detailed and all have different personalities. There are many different 
 'achievments' and 'unlockable' throughout the game, it even offers, for players who want to play 
 the game for a second time, a differnt 'path' to take, where you as Commander shepard can either 
 be 'nastly or nice'. Throughout the game, you are offered more than one dialogue option, once you 
 have completed this game, and spend point, new dialogue options are available for you where you 
 take on the role as a nice, forgiving 'spectre', or an intimidating and ruthless 'spectre'. Just 
 after a few missions into the game, when you are promoted you get your own ship, you do not have 
 to take the ship to the storylines places, you are free to fly to many abandoned moons, battlefield 
 debris (half blown-up space ships to scavenge) , even comets and metors. On some comets you encounter 
 giant alien, worm-like creatures which you will need to kill in order to rescue team members or 
 to salvage beacons. The game keeps you on the edge of your seat throughout, once you play this 
 game you will want to play it again. If i had to sum this game up in 1 word, it would be -  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: louisekas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is truly a step forward for roleplaying games and an evolution of the great games Bioware 
 has been doing up to this point. 
  
  Finally, RPGs are no longer a red-headed stepchild gaming sub-genre. With Mass Effect, a developing 
 character, great storylines, awesome graphic and character animation and total immersiveness are 
 combined into a single game that combine action and story developing quests.
  
  The customization options for your character appearance are awesome, and its great to see the face 
 you made animated in such detail during the game.
  
  Combat action is fun and well-paced. I though the difficulty was just right for the most part. 
 First time through on Normal was sometimes challenging but not impossible and I was ready to play 
 through again with a new character on Veteran by the time I had completed it once.
  
  Mass Effect brings gaming once step closer to feeling like you are playing a movie.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sentencer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Upon seeing trailers for Mass Effect , I almost ran out to the nearest gaming store to me an Xbox 
 just so I could play it. 
  
  No other game to date has integrated a role-playing game so well with a shooter. Trust me, many 
 attempts have been made, but nothing that comes close to the quality of Mass Effect. I'll lay out 
 the pros and cons to detail me review:
  
  Pros:
  - Amazing graphics. Granted, you need to crank them up from the "recommended" settings, but viewing 
 this game with ultra high textures make it seem almost cg movie quality. Granted you need a beefy 
 rig to do this, but it's worth it.
  
  - The dialogue system in Mass Effect is probably the best innovation that is brought to the table. 
 No longer do we need to suffer through playing a character that CANNOT talk. Granted only one male 
 and female voice are represented for your main character Shepard, but at least they talk! I understand 
 that there is great difficulty in creating voice acting lines for all your dialogue options in 
 a RPG, but Bioware not only was able to pull it off, but did it extremely well. Even after a year 
 of it being out for PC and still no other game has come so close to the immerse dialogue system 
 that Mass Effect has.
  
  - Great story and cinematics add to the realism of this game. You feel as if this time frame really 
 existed and that the events are actually real.
  
  Cons:
  - Teammates AI is really stupid, often they are guilty of fratricide or shooting walls. Not too 
 big a problem, but it is frustrating to die by the and of your teem mates. 
  
  - Not enough civilization to explore is another big problem here. Yeah you can travel all over 
 that galaxy and land on several barren planets, but what if I want to visit that planet that is 
 a giant city? Why can't I visit places that have intelligent life? This really bothered me, all 
 the planets in the galaxy and I can only visit the ones that can sustain life but don't actually 
 have much if any life on it. I know this would make the game really complex and huge, but I would 
 be wiling to wait a year or so longer to have more than 2 populated planets I could visit.
  
  Overall:
  - This game is amazing and a work of art. It's not perfect, but damn close. This 
 is a must buy, especially now that it can be found for around US $20! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: topsemag55
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 2:50 pm PT
Review:  I was, like many gamers, of the opinion that nothing could ever meet or surpass the standards set 
 by The Elder Scrolls Series - Oblivion, in particular. Along comes Bioware, and they burst that 
 bubble with their development of Mass Effect.
  
  Until I ran Mass Effect, I never believed that a RPG with firearms could ever match a medieval 
 RPG. I changed my belief within the first five minutes of play.
  
  First off I took notice of the voiceovers. Bioware not only assembled a fabulous cast of superb 
 actors, the voiceover work shows tremendous true-to-life emotion & voice inflection. If Shepard 
 uses Intimidate on a NPC, and the result shows him crying, the voiceover sounds completely realistic. 
 A game can be extremely motivating with creative voiceover acting, and Mass Effect has raised the 
 bar. I will rate the voiceovers of all future games against the standards set by Bioware for Mass 
 Effect.
  
  Next I must mention the graphics. I was stunned to discover that what initially appeared to be 
 cinematic-quality graphics were actually in-engine game graphics. And this is even more amazing 
 when you realize this was accomplished without writing GPU-specific coding (nVidia or ATI) . This 
 is quite possibly a groundbreaking achievement.
  
  I thoroughly enjoyed the novel approach toward dialog selection: A wheel vs. a numbered list of 
 dialog choices. And better still, it's improved upon because the wheel sports a description of 
 what would be spoken, unlike other RPGs, which just reiterate what will be said in a numbered list. 
 As an added feature, you get to choose how your response will be spoken: Friendly, Neutral, or 
 Intimidating. Mass Effect has some of the best fleshed-out dialog I have ever heard. It adds much 
 to the overall immersiveness of the game.
  
  The array of NPCs in Mass Effect look fresh and new. The artwork behind the alien races will please 
 even the most meticulous gamer. The game provides you with a Codex which keeps you very well-informed 
 about the varied lifeforms populating our galaxy. the Codex is very well-designed, and some of 
 it is also narrated: a nice touch.
  
  One nice feature in particular is that when you come to the end of the storyline, you can discover 
 which Achievements you have earned. There are 46 medals to be won, and each one unlocks an added 
 feature. You can even progress with an already-run character up to Level 60.
  
  Mass Effect also offers - in the style of other RPG greats - a vast amount of replayability. Side-quests 
 change if you change your character's background, and even if you rinse and repeat with a new character 
 using the same background as your last run-through, Mass Effect still offers replayability through 
 the judicious use of different dialog choices. The quest outcomes actually do change when a different 
 dialog selection has been made.
  
  The Quick-Save feature is also worthy of note. It's nice not to have to pay for the same real estate 
 twice.
  
  Every game has its quirks, and so does Mass Effect. I cannot fathom why Shepard is aboard the best 
 ship in the Alliance Fleet, yet he has to scrounge for grenades like a hobo looking for his next 
 meal. The game does not provide a feature to restock his supply of grenades while on-board the 
 Normandy. 
  
  Another glaring omission is that Squad Member Training - or "levelling-up" - can only be accomplished 
 groundside. Excuse me, but the real-world military conducts classroom training in locations other 
 than battlefield conditions. Shepard should be able to bring up info on his Squad Members on his 
 screen in the Captain's Quarters, but this true-to-life feature is sadly missing. It really takes 
 away from the immersion when the only places you can level-up are when you're on some far-flung 
 planet, or hopefully be in a location where you can walk out of the ship's main hatch. Even then, 
 you can only level-up three people maximum (Shepard and two members) . Then you have to reenter 
 the Normandy, exit again and select two other Squad Members, then rinse and repeat. Bioware should 
 have put a little more attention to detail on levelling-up. It does break the immersion the way 
 they have implemented it.
  
  Quirks aside, Bioware has developed a real class act - a RPG that can stand next to the superstars 
 like Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andy180084
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2009 9:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is immense, has crisp graphics, and has an excellent storyline. The only downside i found 
 to it was the endless roaming you do in the Mako on some planets. The storyline kept me amazed 
 all the way from Eden Prime to the final confrontation with Saren. The fighting system is great 
 too. You can cling to walls, have an assortment of arsenal, and with the biotic and tech classes 
 you can use powers. The thing that really makes this game stand out is the replay value. Unlike 
 many games where you have to restart from scratch, once you complete the game in Mass Effect you 
 can replay the game, from the start, with all your gear, stats, and level. Like kotor, you can 
 unlock different dialouges in speech with high levels of intimadate, and such. You can have a total 
 of three people in your party at once (including yourself) making the game even more intereseting. 
 This game has a pretty good expansion where you save a colony on an asteroid from an alien race 
 called Batarians that is free on the computer. Overall I believe this game is amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilipepperman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a very cool game that captures the feeling of space opera, while being fun and interesting 
 at the same time. Its best described as a 3rd person shooter with heavy rpg influences. 
  
  Graphics
  The graphics in Mass Effect are very good, and better on the pc for sure. Great lighting, 
 smooth textures, and more are a treat to look at. The engine is starting to show its age, but its 
 great nonetheless. 
  
  Gameplay
  Mass Effect has 3rd person combat and view, but when you talk to people you can have dialogue trees 
 where you can choose what to say, which is a nice touch. Sometimes it can get boring though, and 
 the idea of overheating instead of ammo in a gun is one of this games' few weak points. Especially 
 in the final boss battle, which is extremely hard, you have to watch the health of the boss, you 
 health, your teammates health, Sarens location, AND your overheat meter on your gun. Ya, a lot 
 of stuff to do at once. the game is very fun still, which makes me want to beat it, which i did, 
 but i didnt do any side missions, as i dont do that in rpgs anymore cause they seem to make me 
 dislike the game more. 
  
  Story
  The story is pretty standard. There is a once revered, good person who was part of the council 
 in the citadel, but he went Rogue and starting killing masses of people, killing races, and getting 
 a race to strike back. Pretty standard, but there are a few surprises with your teammates that 
 i wont spoil.
  
  Overall, Mass Effect is a sweet game that is weighted down by some serious issues. If the issues 
 i listed didnt seem like a big deal to you, then you will like this game MUCH more than i did. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jericho9696
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2009 12:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is a futuristic RPG, you know when cars fly, people live in different planets, etc.
 
  
  Now, playing as a guy named Sheperd which you can customize, 
  but it doesn't do any major effects on the story and definitely not the gameplay.
  
  I've got 
 to say, that Mass Effect is ONE of the best RPG I've played in my life because I'm tired Final 
 Fantasy and other japanise RPG,
  they are usually not appealing to me.
  
  So it's very refreshing for me, and the weapons are awesome, but it feels kind of slugish sometimes 
 because then you realise that the weapons are divided into 4 groups: 1. Assault rifle
  2. Shotguns
  3. Sniper Rifles
  4. Pistols
  
  Which isn't surprising because this kind of weapons 
 are probably in every shooter ever made, but you realise that exept those groups, there are no 
 more weapons.
  But you can customize each weapon which can be really fun, you choose the type of bullets, scope 
 and a lot of other things that I can't remember now.
  
  The story in this game is really great and the voice acting is amazing too, AND you can choose 
 "how" you talk.
  Which can lead to different twists in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H2Original
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2009 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Lo mejor de los videojuegos es que te dejan ser parte de un mundo nico, donde cualquier cosa puede 
 pasar. Muchas cosas hacen algo parecido pero no igual, como los libros o las pelculas, ya que 
 en los videojuegos puedes tomar el control del personaje.
  
  Mass Effect hace exactamente eso, te deja desarrollar la historia como t quieras y lo hace muy 
 bien. Las decisiones que tomas determinan el camino de tu personaje, y muchas veces estas terminan 
 afectando a todos los dems personajes. Esto hace que se desarrolle un afecto por lo que sucede 
 con este "universo paralelo".
  
  A pesar de no ser perfecto por algunos problemas tcnicos que son casi inexistentes. La historia, 
 el sonido, las voces, la animacin, el combate y todas las opciones en las que te involucra hacen 
 de este juego completamente imperdible.
  
  Finalmente debo decir que existen pocos juegos que al momento de terminarlos uno piensa: "ojala 
 ese fuera yo". Y Mass Effect es uno de ellos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GattsTaichou
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2009 4:29 am PT
Review:  I could hardly point one more game from the past 1 year that I have spent more time playing than 
 Mass Effect.
  
  What the game offered was something I had been waiting for since Neverwinter Nights - although 
 the two could hardly be compared.
  
  The visuals seem very good even now, with almost maybe a year passed since it's arrival. The game 
 just looks great with smooth surfaces, added film grain and overall detailed textures. Most games 
 don't look so fine even during the cut-scenes or intros.
  
  The music fits very well with the style and story of the game. The whole story has this depressed, 
 futuristic and yet colossal air to it, which the sounds and music seem to reflect well.
  
  The other thing that strikes the player almost at the very beginning is the depth and detail of 
 the characters in the game [NPCs?] , with the absolutely great voice-acting. 
  
  As I guess the only real negative thing in the game I would point out is it's length. If you go 
 through the game straight with doing only a few side-quests you can easily finish the game within 
 1-2 days [not sitting at your PC or X360 all day of course] .
  
  As the game has a quite right defined ending [has a period at the end of the sentence] I can only 
 wonder how the story will continue in Mass Effect 2. Will it live up to the standards of this brilliant 
 game?
  
  We shall see in 2010. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TryDaBeardON
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Canadian console game developer for EA, Bioware (yeah, and that's how I'm going to refer to it, 
 until Dragon Age at least) tossed a bone to its once-important, WASD-playing fan base. It ported 
 its long-anticipated new IP, Mass Effect, to PC. Unlike Bioware's first excellent foray into sci-fi, 
 KOTOR, Mass Effect is not set long long time ago in a galaxy far far away, but rather in our very 
 own Milky Way a couple of hundred years in the future. Ancient technology discovered on Mars enhanced 
 our space-faring prowess, and we are ready to prove to the recently encountered bunch of advanced 
 alien creatures populating the galaxy that evolved apes can be pretty cool, too. And saving them 
 all from complete and utter destruction seems like a nice way to do it.
  
  You play as commander Shepard, a human military officer, who can be customized to you heart's content, 
 as long as he or she remains a human and a commander Shepard. I'm not really a stock character 
 king of guy, so I chose to explore the character creation options. Standard physical customization 
 aside, there are a few interesting psychological profile choices here, which will alter certain 
 dialogue as you play. It's a very cool gameplay touch, although the limited character combinations 
 available (9) tend to remind us, once again, that Bioware now develops for consoles. Still, it's 
 nice - and immersive - to hear NPCs refer to your character creation choices right off the bat.
 
  
  The game play and combat in Mass Effect are reminiscent of KOTOR. You can choose up to two NPCs 
 at a time to accompany you; you can pause combat and issue orders; your light and dark powers and 
 light saber are replaced with tech and biotic powers and a selection of ranged weapons. You control 
 the movement with a WASD, with the camera peering over the shoulder of your heroic pawn. Your companions 
 seem to be smarter this time around. They aren't brilliant, mind you; they still tend to stare 
 into walls and stand in the open absorbing all sorts of fire, but I like how they unload their 
 powers on the enemy within the first five seconds of the fight and switch to preferred weapons 
 from there on. They also can't die, they only get knocked out, so often I would just send them 
 into a room full of bad guys to soft them up, then deal with what's left.
  
  Non-combat interactions take place through cut scenes of spoken dialogue, which, for the most part, 
 is just as good as KOTOR's. The characters you bring with you ashore will offer spontaneous lines 
 during conversations, which I, thinking them to be character-specific, totally dug at first. Then 
 I replayed a spot and had a 400-pound heavy-armor-clad killer-whale merc offer the same opinion 
 I'd just heard from a gas-mask-wearing anorexic alien "engineeress," which marred my impression 
 somewhat. Still, it's pretty cool the first time around. The story here is also strong, although 
 it is very short. It's basically five missions long. Sure there are about a hundred side quests 
 you can do in between these five main missions to make the game longer, but with the story repeatedly 
 emphasizing urgency, going off in search of nickel deposits, while "every minute counts" seems 
 a bit out of character and takes away from the otherwise immersive experience. Worse yet, the side 
 quests do not affect your interaction with your crew in any way. You can spend a year running around 
 uncharted planets together, but your party members will only have something new to say to you after 
 you complete one of the main missions. And the crew interaction is crucial here, both for the story 
 and game play. You will get emotionally attached to your companions, which will make certain choices 
 later in the game real hard. This makes the side quests even more distracting. My advice, ignore 
 the side quests on the first play-through. Maybe do a couple, like the Geth Incursions and one 
 other, so that you could get your behind handed to you by a Thresher Maw. Otherwise just play through 
 the main story missions, talk to your crew, make your choices, cry, cheer and enjoy the "partial 
 nudity." 
  
  The romance, which is becoming a kind of a Bioware trademark, is handled better than in any other 
 game I played this year. The payoff, of course, is still embarrassingly modest, but that's not 
 really Bioware's fault. The imbecility of ERSB, responsible for the abovementioned pearl of wisdom, 
 "partial nudity," cannot be circumvented. To Bioware's credit, they understand that the development 
 of a romantic relationship can be just as interesting and stimulating as the realistic portrayal 
 of human body the puritan idiots are so afraid of. The flirting dialogue is well done, although 
 your choices are sadly limited. They are sort of tied in with the general good/bad alignment structure, 
 and I would prefer the romantic dialogue to be a separate tree with meaningful branches. Oh well, 
 maybe in Dragon Age, though I won't hold my breath.
  
  If you saw the previews, you saw how good the game looks, and it really does. I did experience 
 a few graphical glitches, most common being character blurring in elevators, but nothing major. 
 On the whole, the game is gorgeous. My major annoyances resulting from sloppy porting mostly took 
 place when I tried to get the game to play for the first time. First, the game would not start, 
 crashing repeatedly on splash screen. After scouring forums for clues, I found out it's a common 
 problem associated apparently with the sound software. Since the tips offered seemed like a lot 
 of hassle (like turn off your sound process and then you can play with no sound, yeah!) , I went 
 into properties and selected "play as admin," which pretty much fixed the issue. I say "pretty 
 much," because the game would run fine, but between clicking the executable and getting inside 
 the game I had to close about a dozen error windows telling me that a dll was not found. 
  
  A few extra points to wrap up:
  
  - The economic crisis seems to have affected recent game 
 worlds as well. Developers feel that money must be present in games, but can't figure out a way 
 to make it meaningful. Bioware tries, and it's a near miss.
  - Mass Effect, with all its accomplishments, still feels like a console game. The UI, the inventory, 
 even the combat, are a bit goofy as a result.
  - I want a MAKO.
  -This was the only game in recent memory which I started over immediately after finishing my first 
 play-through. At this point I'm not sure if that was because the game is so awesome or so short.
 
  - To add to the previous point, ME is very addictive. Almost Civilization-addictive.
  -Theme music is awesome. The epic score evokes glorious military movie feel, with all the appropriate 
 sad and happy moments.
  -The game costs twenty bucks now. Buy it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raeldor
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 8, 2009 9:16 pm PT
Review:  I got this game and was very excited to play, but it is plagued by horrific driver compatibility 
 issues. With the latest nvidia drivers I couldn't even get this past the splash screen. I downgraded 
 my drivers and got it to run, but playing for 1/2 hour results in either artifacts that make the 
 game unplayable, or plain crashes which require a reboot. I am pretty technical (a programmer by 
 trade) , and I can't get this damn thing to work properly. Picking this game up is a gamble as to 
 whether you'll be able to get it to work or not. The game itself looks pretty good, and if I didn't 
 have a stick up my butt about playing with a mouse and keyboard I'd probably have a good time with 
 it on the 360. As it stands, I like my FPS with mouse and keyboard, so I'm going to have to return 
 this to the store and think twice before I pick up my next Bioware title on the PC. Shame on you 
 Bioware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KnucklesMcDink
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2009 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Bioware, ever since I had first met you, you had been good to me. Games like Neverwinter Nights, 
 and Baldurs Gate hooked me.
  Then came along Knights of the Old Republic. I thought I might have been in heaven. Combining rpg 
 elements along the Star Wars universe and a story that dragged me along and deeper into itself 
 every step of the way, I played it through a number of times to say the least.
  
  Here we are again, and this time Bioware, you havn't disappointed.
  Mass Effect, KotoR without 
 the star wars and god knows I love this game.
  A very well implemented rpg system, combined with a (choose your own adventure) style play and 
 the ability to get laid in the game? We have a winner ladies and gentlemen.
  
  The getting laid part aside, this truly is an epic game. The development and evolution of the characters 
 as they react to you and grow with you is absolutely fantastic. No one does character development 
 like Bioware I must say. Nor does any other company provide us with characters we absolutly fall 
 in love with. In this space odyssey, the player truly is king of his own little universe.
  
  In the game (Much like KotoR) , characters have the ability to be good, evil, or ride the line 
 of grey. Maxing yourself out on either side of the spectrum produces bonuses for your character. 
 
  
  Great game yes, although there are a couple of mechanical glitches on the PC that should be addressed... Having 
 not updated my ME PC with the latest patch yet, I've had it crash on me only a grand total of 3 
 times in about 30 hours of gameplay. Hopefully patches will take care of the problem.
  
  We cant very well end this review without talking about just how beautiful ME looks on the PC. 
 With all options maxed, this game is absolutley gorgeous. Sometimes I find myself just stopping 
 mid-stride and staring at the environments around me. There's nothing quite like a trip to the 
 moon and staring up at the sky seeing the Earth shining majestic and blue against the darkness, 
 like a beacon of hope and life.
  
  All in all, an excellent game. One that is playable over and over again.
  God knows there's still 
 more for me to find so I'll leave you with a generous, but quite well deserved 9 out of 10.
  Keep it up Bioware... or I'll find you...
  
  
  Seriously... I will 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nuttss
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 3, 2009 5:27 am PT
Review:  As a role playing game, it is a failure. Most of the conversation choices are completely irrelevant. 
 You can respond several ways to progress the story or get the new quest, or respond one choice 
 to effectively end the discussion. Nice/Mean responses only change the flavor of the response, 
 sometimes, while not changing anything in the gameplay. What the responses achieve is allowing 
 yourself to get immersed in the story line; just don't expect to have the story change based on 
 what you say or how you respond. One example of this is when a criminal solicits your help in taking 
 out two crime boss rivals. You can respond several ways, both with virtue and with greed, but you 
 get the quest either way. The real question in any conversation is do you want to collect renegade 
 points or paragon points? Even then, that is only important if you wish to spend enough points 
 in speech to solve the 'impossible' situation near the games end. Store discounts due to speech 
 skill are a joke as you quickly have more credits than you can spend and the game actually stops 
 collecting credits when you max out.
  
  This game also is a failure if you compare it to a shooter. The action is not crisp nor is the 
 graphics up to FPS standards.
  
  I have found it easy to bash the game, yet I played it through twice and considered a third run. 
 Obviously I enjoyed the game even though I have a hard time putting my finger on why. At the end 
 I guess the story line was immersive the first time through and I was intrigued by the different 
 combat options enough that I wanted to try a different style even though I had to suffer through 
 the same conversations with the same results a second time. The play style of charging into a fray 
 with immunity and shotgun is completely different than play with biotics and without weapon specializations.
 
  
  There is an issue were the game crash a lot and the standard help of making sure your drivers are 
 up-to-date is counterproductive. I had to role back my video drivers to June 08 to resolve the 
 issues with it crashing. Wading through 40 pages of message boards with people making the same 
 complaints over and over again before finding the fix was a hassle.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: space_loner
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 10:15 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is essentially the updated version of Bioware's old favorite Star Wars: Knights of 
 the Old Republic. Fans of the old series should definitely look into this game, as should anyone 
 who enjoys shooting alien baddies with futuristic firearms whilst traversing a fantastically detailed 
 galaxy. Compared to the average sci-fi shooter Mass Effect comes with an extra layer of depth. 
 It is really enjoyable to see how your character's moral choices affect how people react around 
 you and determine how you solve the abundant number of side-quests you will encounter.
  
  The game's one downside (at least in the unpatched version I played) is the inability to save between 
 a long-winded dialogue and the ensuing boss fight. This lead to my having to watch the same cutscene 
 every time I had to reload for the boss fight. It is a good thing that the voice-acting is fabulous 
 and the fights themselves are so engaging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SimAce1
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 31, 2009 4:25 pm PT
Review:  I really liked this game for the 1st 10 hrs or so and then the whole thing went to He##. Crashses, 
 freezes, lockups..... you name it about every 2 to 3 minutes of game-play in spite of the fact that 
 I've done virtually everything the self-help Mass Effect forum suggests. 
  
  My system far exceed the suggested requirements and all drivers are up to date. I've reinstalled 
 the game twice and still get the same results. There appear to be a substantial number of complants 
 in the Mass Effect Forums and there is a substantial thread (22 pages) detailing crashing problems.
 
  
  Don't look for any support from EA or the publisher Bioware. I've tried to email them several times 
 and the only thing I've received back is an automated response which was of no help at all. It's 
 a real pity because this is a great game..... WHEN IT ACTUALLY RUNS!
  
  SimAce1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sidexplozia
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 7:59 am PT
Review:  When I bought it i didn't expected much out of it but now all i can say is "masterpiece of the 
 genre". The characters are complex and well animated, the story doesn't have many glitches and 
 the game-play is ok. What i really loved about this game is the help in which you can find precious 
 information about the different races that roam the Citadel or any given planet.
  The camera view was also something i enjoyed - very suitable for a game of this genre doesn't give 
 you a headache after 2 hours of play. I finished the game in approx 18 hours.
  The puzzles are quite simple and don't require serious brainstorming. Good thing this game is not 
 only about puzzles.
  This game can and will suck you in if you give it some time ( 3-4 hours at least ) . The suspense 
 lasted until the end and the final twist of events made an epic closing for the game. Money well 
 spent. Loved it. 
  (since it's my first review sorry for my bad or incoherent English if it was the case) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: georgeww
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 11:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is visually impressive so i wont go on about it there isnt a huge universe but a large 
 enough one to keep u wanting to go back and explore that plant that u didn't last time. with a 
 verity of class to play as and lots of ways to upgrade , there are also a few big choices in the 
 games that effect the game greatly so that it feels like what you do has an effet on the way the 
 games plays. 
  
  the game is well worth $ 50 that you can pick it up for a eb. 
  
  the upgrade system for the weapons is very one sided with not many options if u want a decent weapon. 
 the squad system is a good on lots of control, yet it is some who disappointing there are many 
 times where a simply a key to make them open that, shoot that charge that, unlock that crate.... 
 so on. 
  
  i would recommend this to any on who like gta 4 and role play games and was all ways looking for 
 a cross between the two. a great buy and a great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johngons
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 11:24 pm PT
Review:  This games presents sone of the best story and character development of any game ever. Very enjoyable. 
 Very addicting. You HAVE TO play through the game at least once doing all of the renegade options. 
 You won't be dissapointed.
  
  Lots of Bugs: getting stuck in elevators, getting stuck in walls, enemy AI not turning on many 
 times. There wil be many times when you'll have to reload. I suggest quick-saving OFTEN. It definitely 
 takes a lot away from the experience and can probably ruin the game for some people.
  
  Gameplay is good but not great. Bioware was going for live action as opposed to turn-based gameplay 
 but to use all your powers you have to pause the game so many damn times, the game feels like it 
 may as well be turn-based. It definitely takes a while to get used to the controls. The side missions 
 are all very repetitive as well.
  
  Overall: Decent gameplay and a GREAT story definitely make this one a keeper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxkgnb
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 15, 2009 11:19 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is nothing more than a cheap sci fi flick. I think I have spent more time watching 
 cut scenes than playing a game here. Bio Ware, If I wanted this much of a storyline I would watch 
 a movie and forget gaming. This game is short, not very much fun at all, due to too many, might 
 as well call them mini movies, and lack of any pc game action what so ever. I'm sorry, but I had 
 to sell this one after finishing it and removing it from my pc collection forever. I admit, I bought 
 this one based on hype rather than on what it really did offer, I guess I had to see for myself 
 and I wish I hadn't. There is no game to be played here just a stupid story with dull to no action 
 at all in this one. Sorry Bio Ware, but I think most would like to play a game, not watch one. 
 It's does have decent graphics, sound and yea your story, but this game isn't fun at all and because 
 of your position on how important the storyline is in a game, it's freaking overboard on this title. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Tigger
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 8:59 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard the title Mass Effect, I received a vision of a huge, endless, role-playing 
 game with epic story. When the title has the word "mass" in it, I expect something heavy or full 
 of substance. While Bioware's sci-fi action role-playing game is heavy on story, it's anything 
 but massive.
  
  The most positive aspect of the game is the story line, something I can not tout enough. Bioware 
 could have just written the script as a book or screenplay and sold it instead of making a game 
 and it would have been successful. Deep and twisted without getting bogged in tedium, Mass Effect's 
 plot draws elements from many great science fiction works, including Frank Herbert's Dune and the 
 Borg stories from Star Trek. Themes of politics, racism, symbiosis, betrayal, and control abound 
 as every faction seems to be using the others for hidden reasons. In the 22nd century, humans have 
 been accepted into a galactic community of other species and found itself playing a role in galactic 
 defense and exploration. As a new threat reveals itself, your human character, Shepard, is called 
 upon to investigate and neutralize the problem. The climatic reveal of the true crisis at hand 
 is almost as big as the universe itself, and the words of the antagonist Saren in the fourth act 
 ring true, "You have no idea what's at stake here."
  
  Fleshing out the story is the incredible detail. Every race has a culture and set of emotions that 
 changes how they can be approached. Every technological aspect of the ships, space travel, and 
 weapons is plausibly explained either in dialogue or an in-game encyclopedia. Every aspect of science 
 and culture in the game is at least touched on, if not thoroughly explored. The story moves at 
 a brisk pace, making the game relatively short if you only follow the main story. Dotted all around 
 the main line, however, are a fairly large number of side missions. Few, if any, of these smaller 
 missions could be called "sub plots" because they have little or no bearing on the overall story, 
 but some of them are rewarding with improved equipment or just really cool fights. Other missions 
 you run into just flying near a solar system, and you can choose to get involved or ignore it. 
 The meat is in the main missions, of course, and I have never seen such mixes of story and action 
 to create such unique scenarios. A pleasant blend of pulse-pounding action, tactical small unit 
 strategy, and even a touch of cheap horror film in some places made the main story very enjoyable, 
 albeit it was a bit easy. End bosses were not only tough, but a fascinating twist in the game, 
 and the final act was nothing short of breathtaking to watch unfold on my screen.
  
  Despite the main story, the game completely fails to live up to the potential its text and dialogue 
 writers created. First, this game is supposed to be a role-playing game, but there is very little 
 role-playing involved. You can create your character, but with very few options, and almost all 
 forms of "Shepard" end up looking similar. Then, you're given this illusion that you have these 
 great choices to make throughout the game that can affect the outcome, but really your choices 
 merely alter the dialogue tree along the way and the end result is the same almost every time. 
 In almost every single situation you end up in a gunfight, no matter how you approached it, and 
 in the few cases where you can talk someone out of a fight, they cooperate in a flat, almost shoulder-shrugging 
 way, saying "I guess you're right" and the scenario ends. There are no stealth missions, deliveries 
 or special favors, no solo assassinations, no running back and forth to get two people to agree 
 on something, no buying and selling other than looted weaponry and upgrades, and open exploration 
 is as empty as space itself.
  
  Mass Effect tries to give you a sense of a huge scope and scale, but the illusion is quickly shattered. 
 The opening game area, the Citadel, is a variation of Larry Niven's Ringworld where you're inside 
 a curved hoop with an enclosed atmosphere. The game world in that area, however, is less than a 
 quarter of the total curve, and the locations open to you are severely limited. The curved sky 
 with shuttles flying overhead is cool, but there are very view places to explore. Outside of one 
 or two main locations, the building interiors are bland, flat, and boring, and no matter what you 
 do, the NPC's are static and will not move. The majority of them you can not interact with in any 
 way.
  
  Other environments are even worse as every one of the planets that are not part of the main story 
 are identical. All of them are a miserable, seemingly random landscape with sharp polygon mountains 
 and flat textures. The textures change color with location and the "weather" on each planet is 
 different, but not a single planet outside of the main story has grass or trees. None of them. 
 And only some of the planets had a clump of generic looking deer/cow to pass for "life", and it 
 was the same herd on different planets. It's as if no effort went into making any of these planets 
 at all. What's worse, all of the buildings that you find on these planets are exactly the same. 
 There are exactly two floor plans, and you will find them no matter what part of the galaxy you 
 visit. There are three or four space ships in distress you can board, and every one of them has 
 the exact same structure. Every shortcut imaginable was taken for the side missions as textures, 
 objects, and even sound effects are reused for every location. Even one of the more tropical locations 
 for the main quest, which had trees (finally!) used the same tree, the same shrub and the same 
 rock formation over ad nausea. 
  
  To top it off, some of the character models are reused as well. Creepers are zombie-like creatures 
 and Husks are Borg-like from two different plot lines, yet both move the same way with the same 
 AI and body structure, just a different coat of paint. All of your team and most of the NPC's carry 
 the same configuration of weapons on their back. You had an assault rifle, sniper rifle, and shotgun 
 on your back with a pistol on your hip, regardless of whether or not you used one or all of them. 
 I went the entire game with using my assault rifle and shotgun only once, yet I could never remove 
 them from my character because that's part of the model everyone else had.
  
  While the voice acting is superb, including Keith David, Seth Green and Marina Sirtis, the dialogue 
 is forced and even so cheesy in some spots it'll force a groan or two. Once again, the side missions 
 are miserable with tongue-in-cheek acting and sometimes ridiculous plotting. Shepard is blackmailed 
 by a former acquaintance that wants to squeal to the media that he was a member of a street gang 
 called the 10th Street Reds. Waitwe're in the 22nd century and there was a 10th Street Reds gang? 
 There's no gang with that lame of a name today. Just a little creative juice would have turned 
 that into the Intergalactic Cholos or something. Another mission has a "just say no" tone to it, 
 and others have an "After School Special" feel to them. Like the environment, there was no thought 
 that went into anything outside of the main plot.
  
  Bugs! Holy cow this game has more bugs than my back yard. Desktop crashes and lockups occurred 
 at least once a game session for me. Characters got stuck in the environments repeatedly, got stuck 
 with their weapons locked in or out, and one entire mission got stuck in my mission cue with no 
 way to delete it. There's no excuse for backward footprints in the snow, either. The personal textures 
 and main plot worlds are gorgeous, close up, but anything more than a few feet away is severely 
 pixelated to save on memory. I had the graphics turned up to accomodate my GeForce 9800 card, and 
 I have to say I'm not impressed.
  
  Stick to the main story and you have a very rewarding experience, so the game is far from dissatisfying, 
 but Bioware should have just focused on making the game a straightforward shooter and let the story 
 carry the game. Any game where you can send your squad to one side of a room to pin down a target 
 while you sprint to the flank, shoot him twice at point blank range, then pistol whip him, has 
 got to be a good time. Any game that offers that in the midst of some of the deepest science fiction 
 plotting you can imagine has got to be an incredible time, just don't bother straying off the path. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tingcong22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 2:07 pm PT
Review:  I've played many of the newer and more famed RPGs... Fallout 3, the Witcher, the acclaimed KOTOR, 
 and Mass Effect has the best story and combat system by far. The storyline is immersive and highly 
 addicting. Character development is sophisticated, fluid, and realistic. The massive network of 
 information in the game connects perfectly, although one must play the game twice to fully appreciate 
 the depth of the story. I did almost everything in the game as quickly as i could without compromising 
 anything and it took me 30 hours.
  
  Classic human-saves-the-galaxy plot, but so much more.
  
  The only thing that keeps the game 
 from a 10.0 is the small annoyances -- driver issues (I run the newer 9800m GT on my laptop and had 
 to revert back to factory stock drivers to prevent the game from crashing) , loading periods, long 
 elevator rides, and small combat bugs. Other than that, this game is perfect.
  
  Had to spend 2 hours just sitting there contemplating after the game ended. Just sat there in awe... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devan001
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2009 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect, Its Effect as a game....
  
  Story.... PROS:
  Very well done, by the time you get near the end to figure out the story, you can think "Oh wow! 
 Thats SO cool, it all fits together! OMG!" 
  CON: There was too much talky talky sometimes, and even though you have a huge index on the "story" 
 of the different species in the game that seems kinda cool like a gamers encyclopedia of the game, 
 NO ONE IS GOING TO SIT THERE AND LISTEN TO IT.
  
  Gameplay... The gameplay here was well done, the ability to pause made the game fun because you 
 cant just aim and shoot, you have tactics. Im not a big fan of having to take care of my "buddies" 
 such as in KOTOR, but I very much enjoyed their company and the impact they had on the game, however 
 small it might be.
  
  Game-PLAY: As in, how long it took to beat it.... It was somewhat short if you are a "hardcore" 
 gamer, but it was well worth the fun story and game itself. 
  
  Summary... Mass Effect is a game worth buying, renting, or borrowing your friends and playing it 
 on your Xbox. There was nothing much to complain about in this game. If your into Halo, and need 
 a new game, this is where its at. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MapleSyrupMan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 10:38 am PT
Review:  This is absolutely one of most frustrating games I've played. It's also one of the most engrossing. 
 There are so many things that could - should - have been improved or ironed out that I'm tempted 
 to completely thumb my nose at Bioware and give it a straight 6.0. Just to teach them a lesson. 
 But I have to admit that I did have a good amount of fun playing it, so I settle on a nice 7.5.
 
  
  Allow me to elaborate. First, the things that Mass Effect does well, it does like nearly no other 
 game. It creates a whole universe and puts into it well drawn, complex characters. In particular, 
 those who become your followers are all engaging and interesting. There is Garrus, the rogue cop 
 who is frustrated with his force's inability to take down the main villain, for example, and Wrex, 
 the Krogan whose loyalty is split between you - his captain - and his doomed species. You yourself 
 are cast as the captain of the galaxy's most advanced spaceship. And with that context masterfully 
 set up, the game sets you off to the stars to save the universe.
  
  Good stuff. Sounds like a 9.0 right there.
  
  But when you actually get to playing the game, 
 things go south. Most obvious are the technical hiccups. On my computer, which ran Bioshock and 
 Crysis: Warhead smoothly (albeit on modest settings) Mass Effects stumbles and heaves incredibly. 
 Most annoying are the long and frequent load times (the game has to load three or four times if 
 you want to walk from one end of your small cruiser to the other) and the iffy framerate. When 
 the loading screen itself slows down (though I do appreciate the effect of the fancy animations) 
 you know that the game is in serious need of optimization.
  
  Once you get that sorted out, though, and begin shooting the nasty geth in the face, things are 
 good. Not great, not horrible, just good. On the plus side, everything just. Nothing is too difficult, 
 the shooting mechanics are solid, and the powers are all reasonably useful. The problem is that 
 nothing really stands out as awesome. 
  
  Simply, if you're going to make a game based on shooting things, then the act of shooting things 
 must be cool. But the guns are too underwhelming to accomplish this. The sniper rifle, for example, 
 sounds more like a "pew" than a military "crack" or a Halo-esque "bzzt." It works, but it doesn't 
 feel cool. The other weapons have their moments, but compared to top shooters like FEAR or Call 
 of Duty or Half Life 2, it lacks a kinetic punch.
  
  Similarly, the powers that each class has, on balance, work. They allow you to heal, or damage 
 (directly or indirectly) in a variety of ways. But none of these will have you dropping your jaw, 
 with the possible exception of the shotgun's "Overload" ability. Biotic (cough-Jedi-cough) powers 
 can levitate enemies in the air or push them off a cliff. But it's invisible strings at work here 
 - there are very few special effects. This may very well be deliberate attempt at placing subtlety 
 in a videogame. I don't know. But that doesn't make it fun. The same goes with the tech abilities. 
 You activate it, see a brief flash of energy, then shrug and say to yourself "I think that worked 
 - oh yes, his health meter says that his shields are down. How useful." By comparison, The Witcher: 
 Enhanced Edition incorporates spells into action much more impressively.
  
  This is getting long. What I've tried to do is show how Mass Effect simply isn't as awesome as 
 others have claimed. Essentially, for every positive there is a but- attached to it. For example: 
 you have useful powers but they're little fun to actually use. You have the possibility of using 
 various firearms but they don't really pack a punch. You can make different choices in the story, 
 but only two of them really have an important, game-changing, galaxy influencing consequence. 
 
  
  So. An 9.0 for the detailed and believable world and characters - important for an RPG. 7.5 for 
 the action itself. And a 6.0 for all the tech hiccups. 
  
  7.5 it is then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roosteraxe1
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2009 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying it's been a long road to this review. When I first got it I had problems 
 galore. After several installation attempts I finally discovered the driver for my video card was 
 out of date. Once that was fixed I had to go to the options menu just to add a freakin desktop 
 and startup shortcut. Then to top it all off my old video card (a Geforce 6600, be warned!) crashed 
 and had to be replaced, crippling my computer for a couple months till I could scrape up the cash 
 to replace it. With the old video card and 1G of RAM I had poor framerate and numerous freeze issues. 
 Now I have a Geforce 8500 and have added 2G of RAM (thank you tigerdirect. com) . This game is now 
 working beautifully. I can run it on top settings and have very few problems. The exception being 
 an occasional audio glitch that'll cut out certain spoken dialog (subtitles still work and it happens 
 rarely) . 
  With all that said, was it worth the hassle? Absolutely! I have always been a huge Bioware fan. 
 Since Baldur's Gate I have never failed to be engrossed by their games and interesting twists on 
 RPG combat. This game doesn't disappoint. Combat is extremely fun, especially if you're a FPS fan. 
 Although you're squads AI is dumber than a drunk rotweiler. Storywise things couldn't be better. 
 There is plenty of intrigue and plot twists to keep you interested throughout. Not to mention a 
 huge backstory and a very real, in dept, universe to explore. Character interaction is paramount 
 to this game. Unlike past Bioware games your decisions and conversation threads aren't always good 
 or bad. there are numerous shades of gray, Quite often you'll have to decide just how much of a 
 jerk you want to be, or if you're going to be a heartless SOB to save time to make a more important 
 mission. This brings a much better impact on the choices you make throughout the game. Like their 
 games in the past this gives you a more immersive feel for what's going on around you. Exploration 
 is somewhat of a mixed bag. It is certainly rewarding to discover new places and explore them. 
 However once on planet your choice of transportation kind of takes away from the experience. The 
 driving sections could definitely use some work. Exploring new worlds can become quite a chore 
 either with too many attacks, or not enough to do but drive. This could have been balanced way 
 better, but it's a relatively minor complaint and does break up the monotony of overworld exploration 
 of most RPGs. Unfortunatly I can't give a complete review of this game yet, because I haven't beaten 
 it. But all in all it is awesome so far. If the 20 hours I've logged on so far are any indication, 
 the rest should be awesome and leave me pining for the sequels. So, I am off to finish this game. 
 I will edit my review if anything changes toward the end, but if you see nothing different assume 
 this is my final score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caesarjd
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 7:59 am PT
Review:  If you enjoyed KOTOR, you'll enjoy Mass Effect. Not surprisingly both are made by the same company. 
 The game play is very similar, although there are some improvements over KOTOR. I got kinda frustrated 
 with the class limitations though. Pick your class very carefully up front because you won't be 
 able to really improve on the baseline character. For instance if you choose a class that carries 
 only a Pistol you're stuck with just the pistol. You may carry every other sort of weapon on your 
 back, but that's just a tease because you can't actually hit anything with any of them except the 
 pistol. Overall the game is good, good plot, good character control for the most part, but I just 
 came away from the game hoping for something a little more than what I got. For instance, the sex 
 scene, yes there is a dumb computer porn scene that would have gotten the game a PG-13 in the theaters. 
 Why did we need the sex scene? It didn't add anything to the game, nothing, nada, it just ensured 
 younger players don't get access to the game. You also spend a lot of time driving around in your 
 LAV look alike Mako on distant planets trying to get from point a to b. It's really frustrating, 
 when all you want to do is get to the point. The planetary exploration is kinda cool though. It's 
 obvious the developers spent some time looking at the technical aspects of astronomy. Ok, bottom 
 line... A good game, not quite up to the hype, with little replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GriffinLord602
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect. A game that I thoroughly enjoyed. If you have played any of the KOTOR (Star Wars: 
 Knights of the Old Republic) games, then I suggest you pick this up. It personally found it surprising 
 that there is no hint of KOTOR in Mass Effect. I expected some of the design to be similar, because 
 afterall, they are both set in a space orientated theme. However, you get none of that. This was 
 extremely surprising, because I thought this game would be let down by just that. 
  In many people's minds, Bioware is a developer that can be trusted to give a gamer the best experience 
 possible with a given genre. They keep this 'clich' and the game gave me one of the best Role-Playing 
 experiences ever. The story starts out simple, and you expect it to be 'run of the mill' storytelling. 
 But when you get further into the game, the story becomes so much more. Sorry for comparing, but 
 where the Star Wars games are easy to create, because so much 'history' is documented on them anyway, 
 Bioware have created an entire universe which is diverse and deep. Each new race you come across, 
 has its own unique personalities, and within those races, they have the anomolus members of their 
 society that shock you because you are so used to the stereotype. With this in mind, it makes the 
 story more immersive and satisfying. The character you converse with are also satisfying to talk 
 to in the game, though there is no way of having conversations with them while doing the missions 
 (only moments where there are cut scenes, which then are directed by your speech) you still do 
 not feel as if they are not paying attention to you, because they do interrupt on your conversations 
 when they think you have made a good/bad choice, then you adjust the choice if you wish.
  The graphics in the game are beautiful, with lush and diverse environments to explore, they are 
 a treat to see. However, there are a few graphical glitches, but I found that they were easy to 
 dismiss. I have found that there are problems with the friendly AI on times, and can sometimes 
 stop following your character. This can be annoying, but sometimes they either start following 
 again, or you have to save, and re-load that save. Back to the surroundings, though they are amazingly 
 designed, I get the feel that the areas you explore are incredibly linear, or constricted. There 
 is never more than two ways to approach a certain objective (on the whole) and even though it doesn't 
 look that way, it is. It feels like your on a big straight path, isntead of a short one. Because 
 you would notice with a short path. (I know that's a weird analergy but that's the way I put it)
 
  Overall, Mass Effect is an incredibly built game, with an amazing story that will you hooked. 
 Though I would say it doesn't grip you 'immediately', when you begin to learn of the status of 
 humans more in the galactic society, and gather more crew members, then you will feel totally submerged 
 in the games' atmosphere. However, because the problems I mentioned are only minor, which I was 
 able to forgive. I will give this game 9.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark_muldoon
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 1, 2009 2:44 am PT
Review:  Where does one begin. Reading the reviews, one could have had the impression that here was a game 
 that provided the open game play of an Oblivion in space, with a reasonable plot line and interesting 
 possibilities to explore the galaxy while saving it from certain destruction. 
  
  The search through the shops as Christmas approached and finding that the gme had virtually disappeared 
 actually boded well, suggesting that others had agreed and bought the stocks out, then finding 
 a copy. Then loading the game up and starting ....
  
  What a disappointment. While the game graphics open well, the plot line starts and entices, the 
 sudden stutters, black screens and then blue screens are just beyond belief. All up I have spent 
 a couple of days trying to get the game to run, not at maximum quality, just to run, but to no 
 avail. Even cut scenes suddenly die in a vivid green venetian blind, while the first basic combat 
 episode resulted in black screen after black screen. 
  
  And I am not alone. The Bio ware forums are almost an apology to owners with post after post of 
 people spending hours using various Ge Force drivers, some having to go back in releases into the 
 160's just to get the game to run, despite saying that they can run other games such as Fallout 
 3 and Crysis without problems. 
  
  All in all a total disappointment. And yet, given the hardware requirements of an Xbox, you would 
 have thought it would have been so easy to port across to the PC - and yet made it so hard. One 
 to avoid, even in the bargain bins. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SageIgna
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  If you're like me and you've played through or seen lots of KotOR and Jade Empire and RPGs of those 
 nature, you're probably pretty excited to see a game like Mass Effect which seems like it will 
 take this subgenre into an entirely new direction. Well, there are some definite positives of Mass 
 Effect, but if you've played games of its kind before it'll probably leave a bitter-sweet taste 
 in your mouth on completion.
  
  First, the good: the system that it uses, with customizable characters, branching dialogues, the 
 option to intimidate/charm people, lots of interesting side-quests and a very interesting battle 
 system make this game, in my experience, a huge rush at the beginning.
  
  The newest thing about Mass Effect is that it has an interesting third-person shooter kind of battle-system, 
 combining guns, biotics (essentially physics-based magic) , and bombs with the conventional levelling 
 up/skill points system. There are multiple classes to choose from at the beginning all with different 
 abilities, and though you're stuck with the same four guns throughout the entire game, there are 
 oodles of upgrades to find that will enhance them for how you want to fight.
  
  The graphics and the sound are great. The Citadel, your first (and very regrettably, last) environment 
 worth exploring is a blast, and when things are going your way in a battle it feels good.
  
  Then the bad. Compared to other games of the same nature, Mass Effect's dialogues are a large 
 step back, in part because of the choice to voice-act the main character. You almost never really 
 influence a dialogue by yourself because many times Bioware blatantly gives you multiple options 
 for saying -the exact same thing-. Most frustrating of all, in many cases it's almost impossible 
 to tell what your options are. The prompts are often only two or three words long and can be exceedingly 
 vague. Usually, you can actually see what you're going to say ahead of time; Bioware uses this 
 vagueness to, once again, give you multiple options when you really only have one choice.
  
  Most of that is just minor griping. The worst part of this game is, as many have said before 
 me, a combination of length and content. Usually, games have a long main story and a small array 
 of entertaining sidequests. On the other hand, many games have a short story and a large array 
 of entertaining side-quests. Mass Effect, unfortunately, has a short main story and a large array 
 of completely useless, shamelessly reused side-quests that are begging to be ignored.
  
  The main story can be beaten in about 10-15 hours without a problem. But what makes the side-quests 
 so terrible, you say? Well, the side-quests you find on the Citadel (which is, to clarify, the 
 only place in the game of any interest outside of combat) are intriguing and definitely fun. However, 
 the large majority of the side-quests that Mass Effect contains consist of going to X planet in 
 an otherwise completely boring solar-system, traveling to X location on an otherwise completely 
 empty surface-world, and then shooting a couple of things.
  
  Actually, this set-up by itself could be nice if when you got to the point where you had to shoot 
 a couple of things, you found a fresh locale. Nope, sorry; the locations on Mass Effect are reused 
 over and over and over again in the side-quests, meaning that you'll have seen everything there 
 is to see in only a few hours of intergalactic side-quests. As you'll soon find, all of those planets 
 and systems and clusters... pretty empty.
  
  All in all, Mass Effect is great at the beginning due to a tried and true system along with what 
 are in my opinion very gratifying battles and a lot of exploration. Once you've broken past the 
 surface, however, Mass Effect is pretty darn empty. It's still definitely worth a play through, 
 maybe even several, but don't expect a revolutionary experience; in fact, if you've played other 
 games of its kind, you might even find yourself liking Mass Effect less than its predecessors. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Techspert
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 11:25 pm PT
Review:  The game is amazing, pure and simple. It has everything you could ever want in a video game: shooting, 
 superpowers, aliens, character development, and, most importantly, the knowledge that your decisions 
 actually influence your gameplay.
  
  One of the most striking aspects of the game is the "sandbox" feel one experiences right after 
 the first "prologue" mission. You can, at any time during the game, go to any star system and land 
 on any hospitable planet. While there are 3 different worlds where you are nudged towards for plot 
 development, there are dozens of secondary missions that take you to all corners of the galaxy. 
 This is enforced by the many ways you can get missions. For example, you can hear about a missing 
 scientist on the elevator radio, and it automatically gets added to your log. You can obviously 
 look around the citadel for quest givers, who stand out from the crowd because they actually have 
 names. In some cases you can even do the quest ahead of time without knowing it, and when you are 
 done get a quest to find the original giver and still get the same xp/reward.
  
  The only thing I dont like is the somewhat low number of biotic powers. There's push, lift, warp, 
 singularity, stasis, and barrier. 6 powers, while all unique and fun to use, pale in comparison 
 to the vast array of force powers in Kotor.
  
  In conclusion, great game, and an instant classic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mrfatthefat
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 5:31 am PT
Review:  When I saw this game on Xbox 360 last year the only thing I wanted to know was whether this game 
 was going to amke its way to PC and I was glad that it did. 
  Viewing the trailers and reviews from many game sites including gamespot made me wonder whether 
 I would ever a play a game better than this. 
  MAss effect is a great game with amazing voice acting, graphics and action. Its has got a lot of 
 background information and stuff. However the action sequences are seperated by long boring walks 
 in the citadel with long conversations that yu can only bear listening to in your first playthrough 
 of the game. 
  The game has a lot of acton and the music is just amazing to lift your moods but it ended too soon. I 
 was expecting twists but I didnt see any and before you know it the games over and the credits 
 are rolling. Whoa...
  I have played games like The Witcher, KOTOR 2 and NWN and those games have satisfying length but 
 this game probably only 10 hours if you skip through te conversations and side quests.
  The side quest themselves are not worth your time as thay are boring and have very little or nothing 
 to do with the main plot. You just ride in your MAKO to a spot, kill some people and do the same 
 thing on another planet.
  Its just that with so many systems and planets shown on the map I thought the game would be really 
 expansive, instead it only focuses on four different planets in four different systems.
  MAss Effect had every reason to be the greates game ever, the developers just did not provide enough 
 content to give the player a satisfyng experience. 
  Its got alternate endings so you could play though it 3 or 4 times. I would probably buy the sequel 
 in which I hope the developers make a story that last for atleast 40 hours.
  Mass effect is a game with a lot of great ideas but it is unfortunate that the game does not keep 
 up with the complexity of games like FallOut 3 and The Witcher. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: saintivan
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 20, 2008 6:20 pm PT
Review:  The formula: go to planet, drive around in oddly nearly-indestructible physics-defying vehicle, 
 enter building, go from room to room shooting enemies, collecting loot, and slowly advance plot. 
 Repeat. Occasionally divert to citadel for lengthy chats with various ambassadors and council members. 
 Repeat. The thing is... the formula works. I don't crave playing this game, nor do I play for hours 
 on end. But I do wind up playing every day. 
  Is it challenging? With rare exception, no. Is it intriguing? At times the plot does get interesting. 
 The characters you play with on your team, sadly, are bland. Could have added a lot. Graphics really 
 aren't that good... hey, it's a port and maybe the first one I've ever played (is it just me or 
 does it look like a PS2 game) but there is a little eye candy from time to time (I have a quad 
 core and dual 8800XT's so it aint my rig) . There are catchy little tunes throughout the game that 
 do a nice job adding to the atmosphere. The bottom line is that the gameplay is satisfying enough 
 to keep me coming back for more. There is a lot of game here -- with so many side quests, you will 
 get your money worth time wise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Furnish
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2008 4:50 am PT
Review:  One of the best game ever played, the sensational story line about the cosmos and the destuction 
 of the universe is just innovative. Who wondered that there is a being so powerful as the reeper 
 cannot outstand the might of the human beings. The game resembled that human are the greatest of 
 the intelligent beings in the universe. We just don't have the technology, but we have the courage, 
 determination, dedication to show the universe that we deserve better. 
  
  I should say the game is improved greatly on Player Creation and Character Class, Dialog, Combat, 
 Tech Abiliies, weapons and equipments. The game let you choose the player's moral decisions and 
 the space ships is a new way to travel. The Mass Effect has a little romantic sex scene, no harm 
 done.
  
  Awards
  Mass Effect's showing at E3 2006 was well received and resulted in the game winning several awards 
 during the expo, including the Game Critics Awards' Best Role-Playing Game. One of the most recent 
 and arguably more significant awards the game has been awarded the #1 spot on IGN's list of "The 
 Top 25 Xbox 360 games. 
  
  The game earned the following post-release awards:
  
  Spike TV Awards
  Awarded: Best RPG 
  
  GameTrailers Awards
  Awarded: Best RPG, Best New 
 Game. 
  
  TeamXbox Awards
  Reader's Choice Awards: Best RPG, Best Story. 
  Awarded: Game of the Year, Best RPG, Best Story. 
  
  GameSpot Best of 2007 Awards
  Awarded: 
 Best Voice Acting, Best Original Music. 
  
  IGN Best of 2007 Awards
  Awarded: Best RPG, Best Original Score, Best Story. 
  
  X-Play Best of 2007 Awards 
  Awarded; 
 ' 'Best RPG. 
  
  The complete list of awards can be found in Mass Effect's official site.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramses48
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect, while it does little to revolutionise the genre, features outstanding gameplay, unique 
 graphics, a complex and very interesting story, and a highly immersive universe to easily lose 
 yourself in.
  
  If you are familiar with Bioware's previous achievements such as Jade Empire, KOTOR, and Baldur's 
 Gate, you will likely find similarities in gameplay. A space adventure which involves futuristic 
 firearms, armour, and equipment, it's combat is primarily ranged - very little melee. Travelling 
 between planets and solar systems, completing quests, and a levelling-up system which involves 
 the tried-and-true xp points system.
  
  Graphically, the game employs a grainy texture likeness, which gives it a somewhat Hollywood character, 
 which further makes you feel like you're playing a movie blockbuster rather than an RPG. While 
 not in the same league as Crysis or Far Cry 2, the graphics are nonetheless modern and only add 
 to the excellent experience.
  
  The story involves half of the Milky Way galaxy, and incorporates around 50 planets and many different 
 alien species. I won't give too much away, but the plot is largely a conspiracy against the leading 
 authorities by a rogue agent. You, as a champion of humanity and a past which has forged you into 
 a hero, must prevent this renegade from destroying all that is good. While this basic synopsis 
 sounds cookie-cutter and far from being unique, it involves much more than this. It successfully 
 keeps you interested and is easy to follow.
  
  Like Bioware's previous epics, the immersiveness of the Mass Effect universe is possibly it's strongest 
 point. It is quite easy to be sucked into the story and the plight of different people and other 
 beings. 
  
  I must admit, I'm not a huge fan of RPG's, but Mass Effect held my attention from the start and 
 didn't falter till the credits. Anyone, regardless of your respect for RPG's, Bioware, or space 
 warfare, should play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Abykro
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  one of the best of all time , u wont regret playing this one
  specially if ur on rpg!
  and it really has a mass effect on players
  tutorials on how the game runs is a bit lacking ,takes 
 some time to know how the game works , other than that its a great game if ur asking this or witcher 
 i'd say this...
  better than any rpg i ever played and the actions and battles are best too
  never gets boring 
 on conversations due to the voice acts not like KOTOR series conversations can be boring there
 
  ME has a huge library of voice actors for every species on every action u select making u wanna 
 know the whole story not just skipping to objective
  graphics and awesome ,story is amazing , sounds and effects are excellent
  and it has over 100 
 hours of playing..
  u can be good or bad too just like KOTOR or FABLE but like they have made it right this time, awesome 
 armours and equipments even ammo upgrades and weapon upgrades for each weapon
  awesome species and diffrent cultures and histories,
  
  
  i hope my review helped .. the 
 game is really amazing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nagesh_Subbanna
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 10, 2008 10:00 pm PT
Review:  It appears that Gamespot reviewers and I think rather differently when it comes to RPG genre. This 
 game has been rated very high by the Gamespot reviewers, but the game does not really measure up 
 to the best of the RPG class, in my opinion.
  
  The game involves roleplaying a top human commando in a world where humans are not really trusted. 
 All this is to the good and makes for good roleplaying. Unfortunately, that is one of the few things 
 that are good. Let me analyse the individual elements of the game.
  
  The other good thing in the game is the visuals. The game designers have gone to some length to 
 design a visually appealing world. The scenery in most cases is compatible with the quests and 
 the environment. These, unfortunately, are the only things on the good side. 
  
  The first and foremost, on the downside, is the difficulty of the game. I may be too much an old 
 school, hardcore gamer, but the game is way too easy. Even the top bosses of the game hardly pose 
 a threat to the player and one can rely on pure brute force in almost all situations, which is 
 rather unfortunate, given that one is theoretically facing overwhelming odds. There is hardly any 
 single situation that forces you to step back and evaluate your options carefully, and/or rely 
 on some subtle tactics to win. But perhaps, the authors of the game did not want to make things 
 too hard for the newer gamers. 
  
  The AI (both allies' and enemies') does not display too much intelligence, but is decent enough. 
 Again, good, but nothing great. The one downside I noticed was that pathfinding leaves quite a 
 bit to be desired. I am not sure if there is a way to alter that (something along the lines of 
 `path finding nodes') . I could not find anything to alter that, but it may be because I am missing 
 something. In more than one case, enemies got stuck behind crates and pillars, proving to be easy 
 targets. Similarly, my allies would often stand in the middle of an alley, attracting fire from 
 every enemy for miles around. And there is no way to actually change your allies behaviour in the 
 game.
  
  While the gameplay aspects maybe excused on the grounds of catering to the newer players of the 
 genre, there is almost nothing that can excuse the lack of role playing character. In most situations, 
 one is basically given the option of being a nice guy or a jerk (the points one gains in each route 
 accumulates, making you gain `nice guy' or `jerk' options) , but there are, in most cases, no two 
 ways to do the same thing. The dialogue choices may avert a combat here and there, may give an 
 extra tidbit here and there, but they hardly alter the course of the quest. Now this kind of thing 
 is bad enough when one is railroaded along in the main quest (at least, there is the excuse that 
 the game must progress) , it is actually very unpleasant when the same thing occurs in the side 
 quests. 
  
  The main quest is not exactly inspired either. It rehashes the same old tired `Oh, the galaxy is 
 in danger, you are the only one who can save it!' line. This has been done ad nauseaum and apocalyptic 
 plots are a dime a dozen these days. However, it has the saving grace of using a setting that is 
 good, so it does not grate on the nerves too much. Nevertheless, the downside of having an apocalyptic 
 plot is that it does not leave much room for roleplaying since it forecloses the option of choosing 
 sides. You are forced to save the galaxy, whether you want to do it or not.
  
  The real downside comes in the side quests. This is the part that should lose a lot of points for 
 the game. Bioware designers are decidedly coming down in the world in this regard. The side quests 
 are, not to put it a point too fine, poorly designed. There are at least half a dozen quests which 
 essentially involve running around barely inhabited planets in an infantry vehicle collecting various 
 bits and pieces. Also, these quests are totally out of character for the PC. Why would anyone send 
 a top military commando to survey planets for thorium? Would they send him to do it in an infantry 
 vehicle that is designed for fighting and not for negotiating rough terrain (and I mean really 
 rough terrain, like climbing 70 degree slopes!) ? The one size fits all is a real dampener for the 
 players. If the PC is sent to survey planets for thorium, would it not make sense to give him an 
 explorer vehicle that functions like a hovercraft, rather than the infantry fighting vehicle that 
 bumps and falls hundreds of feet without taking a scrap of damage? 
  
  Why would anyone send the finest commando to collect the writings of an ancient crone who had nothing 
 better to do than scribble rubbish in her free time? Many of these quests are not even given by 
 anyone in the game - they are given from above by the game, which makes it even worse in terms 
 of roleplaying. These poorly designed quests argue designer fatigue, laziness or ineptitude. 
 
  
  Finally, there is the question of reused areas. Every dungeon (enemy stronghold) in the sidequests 
 almost always has the same layout. I saw the mercenary stronghold areas reused at least five times, 
 the mine area template used three times, and the ship template reused four times. The designers 
 basically used the same area (and often similar enemies) and simply gave it new names. This is 
 really poor programming. One does not get so lazy that one is unwilling to generate new areas for 
 the enemies and every single area and enemy looks exactly like the preceding one (albeit with a 
 couple of level ups, to compensate for changing player levels) . 
  
  The review may sound harsh, but that is because one has come to expect a certain quality from Bioware 
 and this game unfortunately does not measure up well against its Baldur's Gate predecessors. All 
 said and done, it is a decent game, but nothing great.
  
  Overall score 7/10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sniperfolk
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  one of the best of all time , u wont regret playing this one
  specially if ur on rpg!
  and it really has a mass effect on players
  tutorials on how the game runs is a bit lacking ,takes 
 some time to know how the game works , other than that its a great game if ur asking this or witcher 
 i'd say this...
  better than any rpg i ever played and the actions and battles are best too
  never gets boring 
 on conversations due to the voice acts not like KOTOR series conversations can be boring there
 
  ME has a huge library of voice actors for every species on every action u select making u wanna 
 know the whole story not just skipping to objective
  graphics and awesome ,story is amazing , sounds and effects are excellent
  and it has over 100 
 hours of playing..
  u can be good or bad too just like KOTOR or FABLE but like they have made it right this time, awesome 
 armours and equipments even ammo upgrades and weapon upgrades for each weapon 
  awesome species and diffrent cultures and histories,
  
  
  i hope my review helped .. the 
 game is really amazing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slong
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect has it all!
  
  Combat, with a variety of skills and weapons that allow for you to pick and choose your favorite 
 assault methods. Do you like close up? Do you like far away? Are you best with mobile assault or 
 do you prefer to bunker down? They're all there.
  
  Interaction, with a vast number of different characters that involve you in their worlds and then, 
 depending on your actions, can show up again and again and again throughout the story. Do you want 
 to romance your subordinate or have an interlude with the sexy alien? Are you interested in determining 
 the source behind a drug cartel? Do you want to chase down the mysteries driving an entire alien 
 civilization? or two? Yep, got that, too.
  
  Value, from a long central campaign and large number of side quests but also from quite a lot of 
 replayability. Whether you do all the quests, every time, or you just do some, you can still mix 
 it up because you don't always have to choose the same options. Play the game as a jerk, as an 
 angel, or some mix of both, but each time it will get you a different set of end responses.
  
  The only down-side to the game is that combat does become somewhat repetitive. By the time 
 the game is over, even on a high difficulty level, you're looking at your enemies and laughing. 
 Regardless, however, it's a great deal of fun!
  
  Sj 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsmaster13
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  I always play games for their story. Good graphics always help, but for me the game is always all 
 about the story and I gotta say that Mass Effect has a excellent story. Sure it has some flaws, 
 but hey which game doesn't. What would make the whole story line even better if they brought out 
 sequel called something like: Mass Effect 2: the Reapers or Mass Effect 2: Dark Space. Either way, 
 purchasing this game was one of the better decisions for me. What games usually miss is the music. 
 Halo 1, 2 and 3, Prince of Persia 2: Warrior Within and Mass Effect had the music. A shooter or 
 RPG should always have a certain kind of music that just gets your blood flowing. Just like in 
 Elder Scrolls: Oblivion, I just can't get enough of the song you hear just before you get to create 
 your character. But still, what would really make my month is if a sequel or something just like 
 Mass Effect would come out. 
  Thanks for reading;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antipunt1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Let me start out by saying I hate Sci-fi. Yes, I detest alien races with flying ships and "Commander 
 x-person reporting in". It just isn't really my cup of tea.
  
  Because of this I prolonged the playing of Mass Effect. It wasn't only until a game-drought that 
 I dug this one up, with promises from critics that I wouldn't be wasting my time. Well essentially, 
 they were right.
  
  Mass Effect is a really good game. Despite hating sci-fi, I still managed to enjoy it quite a bit. 
 Solid story, VERY good writing [game's highlight right here] , believable choices/characters, and 
 a decently fun gameplay involving guns and squad commands. Like critics have said, you will spend 
 a lot of the beginning kinda unhappy and well... dying. There's a lot to get used to. The inventory 
 system is QUITE complicated, and the fighting is very very new, hence resulting in multiple deaths 
 and a lot of "OMG" exclamations.
  
  HOWEVER, at some point past the first few hours, something strange happened. I started to LIKE 
 the gameplay. Now the originally noted awesome-graphics and great dialogue were interweaving with 
 the fighting and leveling system. Things that were originally complicated had become intuitive, 
 and the game was shining in worth.
  
  Despite all these grand achievements [and believe me I was very happy to find a story with GOOD 
 dialogue jeez] , Mass Effect isn't without its problems. The first being that even though the story 
 was well written, it wasn't GREAT, or should I say epic status. A game I reward a 9.0 has to hit 
 me emotionally, and Mass Effect [as a opposed to other games such as Bioshock or Fallout 3 for 
 example] did not. Despite respecting the characters, I never found myself actually caring for them. 
 I was reverent of the graphics, but wasn't entirely impressed. It was pretty, but something about 
 it just didn't 'flow', as it did with the wasteland or 'rapture'. The graphical issues such as 
 pop-in didn't help either.
  
  In addition, the story was indeed well written, and had a great sense of flow, but it didn't hit 
 me with the same impact as say a Final Fantasy game. I'm purposely making references to epic-level 
 games to suggest that Mass Effect just doesn't belong in 'that' family. 
  
  Still, I enjoyed Mass Effect and would easily call it a fantastic game, that easily allows you 
 to overlook its problems. The awesome dialogue and believable vocal-choices are enough to make 
 this game certainly one of a kind, and of the good kind at that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marty_Chonks
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 8:50 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games I've ever played. While it's not Grand Theft Auto, it doesn't have 
 to be. It's a sci-fi shooter, not a "Gimme that car, sucka!" *BANG* kind of game. It completely 
 revolves around its storyline, which is immense and, once you understand what's what, completely 
 compelling and original. You have to let the story take a hold of you and really try to understand 
 it. There are many species in the game that it gets somewhat overwhelming. However, each is well 
 thought-out and adds more to the game.
  But let's get to the gameplay. The gameplay is the only thing that bring this game down to my 9.6 
 rating. It just doesn't feel... right. Driving is somewhat of a chore, even after a lot of practice. 
 Pausing the gameplay is somewhat of a bonehead move to get your moves in (albeit usually very convenient 
 for planning, but in real life do you get that pause?) . And overall, it just feels underdone. 
 
  Another problem (and blessing) is all the species of aliens that you interact with. It's not that 
 there are too many, it's that there are too few that have an impact. The game focuses around the 
 asari, turians, and the humans 90% of the time, and there are more than five other species that 
 you meet that have little to no impact. I would have liked to see more involvement from them.
 
  One last problem with the game: the interaction. Don't get me wrong, it's one of the best parts 
 of the game, but usually choosing any of the three options yields the same results with different 
 dialogue. Also, it feels forced. There is way too much of a gap between each person's lines, as 
 if they had to sit and think about what they were going to say to each other for 5 seconds BETWEEN 
 EACH SENTENCE.
  But these problems are extremely minor. The game is so captivating that you have to nit-pick for 
 these problems (except the very obvious last one) to find them.
  The expansion, Bring Down the Sky, was entertaining and it returned me to the game for a few hours 
 again. If you can get it, I recommend doing it. While it doesn't so much as put a dent in the storyline, 
 it's still fun. Just try it.
  Overall, the graphics are great, the soundtrack is awesome, the sounds are great (many people complained 
 about your partner's dialogue being too quiet, but I never noticed) , and the storyline is something 
 completely new.
  I like forward to Mass Effect 2 and the storyline it will bring.
  
  Exact Rating: 9.6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lazdude
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 7:12 am PT
Review:  When Mass Effect was released for Xbox 360, it was awarded with public and critic acclaim for its 
 ground breaking features. Not long afterwards with Electronic Arts' acquisition of BioWare, PC 
 gamers now get the opportunity to play this hugely anticipated title.
  
  
  Rather than simply port from console to desktop, this version was specifically developed for the 
 PC. Various technical issues with the original have been improved, and a new interface was added 
 to allow for better control. What sets Mass Effect apart from other RPGs is its combat, which takes 
 place in real time and from a third person perspective, a combination that allows for some truly 
 realistic fights. 
  
  Many aspects of previous BioWare games are still present in Mass Effect, such as side quests, party 
 member interaction, alignment system, character leveling, changeable equipment, ability expertise, 
 decision making and more.
  
  Your missions are fairly non linear, with many freedoms on how to complete the main storyline, 
 with several optional locations and no sequence order required. Further more, the diverse dialog 
 options available and their responses make the entire plot a more cinematic display than what we're 
 used to.
  
  
  The first thing you notice about Mass Effect is its amazingly detailed graphics engine. Not only 
 do the characters look real, the environments are varied, so you'll constantly be admiring the 
 visuals. Throughout the game you're presented with routine cinematics like departing and arriving 
 destinations, surprise encounters or boss fights on planets, and storyline events featuring amazing 
 space combat cutscenes.
  
  If you don't like the default model, customize your character's physical appearance when starting 
 a new game to look whatever way you chose. Also, when collecting various equipment on missions, 
 wearing different armors and weapons will display unique skins for each, giving an even greater 
 level of personalization.
  
  
  As for the soundtrack, effects are appropriate, music is exciting, and voiceovers are of high quality. 
 There is simply so much dialog to listen to, all of which seem right for the situation. You might 
 notice subtle transitions like ambient to battle music or noises off in the distance, each of these 
 are tied in well and only add to the immersion.
  
  
  Perhaps the best part of the RPG genre is replayability, and Mass Effect is no exception here. 
 In fact, the game does its best to encourage more than one play through. For one thing, the sheer 
 scope of content makes it impossible for you to experience everything on offer first time around.
 
  
  There are plenty of achievements to be unlocked, uncharted worlds to explore, quests to complete, 
 alternate conversations to hear, romances to pick from, and some game changing decisions to be 
 made. Add to that downloadable expansions, and you'll keep playing for long time to come.
  
  
  For fans of BioWare, role playing games, and science fiction, Mass Effect is a title you 
 cannot pass by. For an original production, it has surpassed all expectations and sets the bar 
 high for others to follow. The story continues on in a trilogy, but don't wait that long to experience 
 this blockbuster from the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bruneauinfo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 11:16 pm PT
Review:  Felt like KOTOR did most of it already - although that's not true. I just felt like i was playing 
 a KOTOR game with a few adjustments with the FPS feel. Not saying it's a bad rehash, just not spectacular. 
 The story is well done, and the graphics are nice. Most enemies aren't all that impressive and 
 neither is the arsenal. No weapons or powers, although cool enough, really stand out. This could 
 be a good thing. Fun sci-fi mysteries, but the story doesn't fill in the blanks nearly as impressively 
 had they just left things completely up in the air. Might have been more interesting had I completed 
 all 50 hours of gameplay, but i went the 20 hour route instead so the anticipation was probably 
 cut short when i got to the end of the plot so quickly.
  
  Might be a lot more fun playing all sub missions on a veteran or harder difficulty setting. Except 
 for a number of instant kills due to overwhelmingly powerful sniper-rifle and point blank shot 
 gun blasts I felt pretty much unstoppable. 
  
  Also lots of juggling around weapons and mods and armors and ammo. Maybe it just wasn't my cup 
 of tea with all the details. I still gave it a 7.5! 
  
  The sub missions I did complete, although they told a bit more of the story, they very much felt 
 like they were expansions rather than integral to the game. Unfortunate since I suppose the designers 
 were trying to appeal to the in-and-out type players as well as the fully committed types. I hate 
 the feeling that I'm playing through fluff. But hard core scifi fans will probably love it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LonnieMitchell
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit, when I first started playing this game it was the day before Fallout 3 came out, 
 and I only got through the intro level and then back to the Citadel. I was not really that impressed 
 to say the least. However, once I finished Fallout 3 and came back to it I was really surprised 
 at just how into this game I ended up getting. I stayed up until 2:30am one morning playing it 
 even though I had to be at work by 8 o'clock the next day. This game has fuzzy camera views when 
 in elevators at the Citadel, but after a short while I figured out that was intentional and I understood 
 it. The game has an innovative dialogue menu option, and it keeps track of your dialogue choices 
 to affect later options and events in the game. It took me a short while to get used to it, but 
 once I did I really liked what BioWare had done here. This has turned out to be another one of 
 their great games. In fact, I am in the process of playing the game through a second time just 
 to try and see what I can do with another character class and try out some of the other options 
 that my "soldier" didn't have access to due to his class. This game is excellent if you will just 
 give it a chance and let it get under your skin. I'm really glad that this is supposed to be a 
 trilogy. I'm excited to see what comes next. I know I have just rambled through this entire thing, 
 but that's because of how much I like the game, and how much I have no clue of where to start. 
 This is a really great game, and if you like rpg's then you should give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexandros_m
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 24, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  As for the story ,it will surely suck you in!
  Its one of the dumpest stories ever introduced to a game fitting to action b-movies with the hero 
 handling every situation with the right quote. It will actually cost you not only money to play 
 the game but also about 30 iq points.
  So whats the problem you'll wonder? We have a nice combat system a good gameplay, so?
  Well if 
 playing a good shoot 'em up game is all you want ,you can play crysis which is great or something 
 that is sold as an action game.
  But if you wanna play an rpg then you suppose that there is a good story to be told more like an 
 interactive movie of sorts where time was actually spent on THINKING of a good scenario.
  I'd recommend the game to
  A: ages lower than 14 cause they'll most probably find something cool 
 in the hero quotes
  B: Steven Seagal fans
  C: People I hate
  D: Bollywood action-film writers
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: staraven
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  The first time I played through was fun. Although there is a central plot, you can go to the planets 
 you want in the order you want. Complete a bunch of side missions first? Focus on the the central 
 mission? Although not as massive as say Oblivion, Mass Effect has some openess to it. The Down 
 Loadable Content (all 1 of them) adds another hour or so, to the game.
  
  The controls and such are easy to master and there are not a lot of weapons and such to choose 
 from. The best part is figuring out which skills/class you want to be. I've played all of them 
 and found some make the game easier and others are more entertaining. Improving your skills requires 
 you to understand what all the skills accomplish - something I didn't think was well explained. 
 You should manually select skills for your crew mates although by doing this, you alter what they 
 were designed to do. Some of the scenarios/missions are tedious... go talk to this person, then 
 that person kind of stuff.
  
  The Mako, your 6 wheeled magical buggy, is a great bunch of code. If only it were real I'd have 
 one of my own:)
  
  I played male and female, and have had the interesting "sex scene" as lesbian, alien, and, "normal". 
 I guess the developers were a little shy of gay. Any rate, its very overrated and hyped on the 
 boards. Think of it as 1950's romance... lights go down, kiss, then, its morning.
  
  This game could be so much better if there was more content. The means are in place for more, but 
 only 1 DLC is available. I haven't uninstalled it yet.... hoping for more but not holding my breath.
 
  
  Overall, its not a bad game, has some unique attributes and skills, and a mix of combat and negotiations. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tailou
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 12:35 am PT
Review:  Cgicore just mentioned it, is like a Movie, and you participate in it as the main actor, you could 
 choose your path and you can make some kills and runs when its needed.. and yes, theres plenty 
 of dialogue to fulfill your actor-dream.
  
  The movie-game starts with a nice story-line, makes you wanting more and go further in it, but 
 when you take a break and think about it, you realize that the game dont let you run the show, 
 it drives you all the way to the finish line and it lets you make some moves by yourself in a movie 
 set... when you have to do something that takes a few minutes to complete it.
  
  The combat mode is a joke, why you need so many guns and rifles, when your smallest gun do the 
 job pretty easily, the aiming is bad in a big gun, so choose the smallest gun with the smallest 
 aim and run to the guy and shoot him in the face! The sniper gun is also handy, at least it could 
 take more time to aim before the director cut your intervention with another scene play.
  
  Theres a lot more to explore, try to contact a local movie maker to discuss the matter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cgicore
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2008 12:15 am PT
Review:  Very nice graphics indeed, however, there are some inconsistency in characters details. Some characters 
 seems to have more detail than others. And those ones (e. g. Captain) that has low texture details, 
 are quite ugly in my view, comparing to the main character.
  
  The story wasn't the best really and the dialogue choices are not the best either. Some answers 
 are a bit off comparing to what the player was expecting to be hear. 
  
  Like a friend said, it felt like watching a movie, but you are playing the main character. Too 
 linear and straight forward the game. It could have been more exciting, given the nature of the 
 game.
  
  The side quests felt short as well. The sniper gun, even without aiming directly on the enemy, 
 dies with a shot.
  
  I guess the reason worth playing was the impressive graphics in overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jogeoluz
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect has a large sci-fi universe that allows one to explore for XP in the traditional RPG 
 way. Shepard is the protagonist who is promoted to Spectre and takes command of the Normandy, the 
 most powerful ship in the Alliance fleet. I found that there are many side quests to do for XP 
 and cash in credits. By doing the side quests and the main story I played for the better part of 
 50 hours. I consider myself a completionist so this factors into how long I played Mass Effect. 
 The main story has plenty of content, as you find information from the journal and codex. Racism 
 is rampant throughout the plot as there is an intention to vanquish an entire race of aliens and 
 an attempt to keep one race from reproducing themselves. One asset of this game is the ability 
 to choose a career for Shepard. The careers include soldier, engineer, vanguard, adept, infiltrator, 
 and sentinel. Therefore, you can replay the game after completion and choose a new career, thereby 
 enhancing replay value. I decided to make Shepard an engineer because decryption and electronics 
 are crucial during the game. Without decryption or electronic skills it would be difficult to hack 
 certain devices and crates. I then found out how important biotics are in this game since there 
 are enemies with biotic attacks. Biotic attacks can lead to overheated weapons and destroyed shields.
 
  Dialogue is a big part of the game since there are many options to choose from and there are consequences. 
 The dialogue trees enhance replay value. However, your choice of dialogue has no effect on the 
 conclusion of the story. If you develop enough charm or intimidate in your character stats, you 
 can convince others to conform to your ideas.
  No matter how charming you are, combat is inevitable. Combat is very smooth with the mouse and 
 keyboard combination. There is a contextual cover system that allows you to take cover behind walls 
 and crates and you can pause the game to issue commands to your squad mates. What is quirky is 
 that you automatically gain items and credits after killing a foe. It is certainly easier to automatically 
 gain items and credits after killing a foe than picking them up from corpses, but it falls short 
 of realism. You choose your squad mates according their combat abilities relative to the enemies 
 you will face on a particular planet. There is vehicular combat with the Mako, a powerful all-terrain 
 vehicle with mounted guns and cannon. It handles well, but steering is sometimes a little awkward. 
 The inventory management leaves something to be desired, particularly when shopping inside the 
 Normandy. When I wanted to buy weapons or armor from the requisitions officer, I did not have immediate 
 access to the inventories of the other squad mates.
  The graphics are pretty good and the details of the alien races such as the Salarians and Turians 
 are outstanding. The acting is well done with recognizable voices such as Keith David and Lance 
 Henriksen. The professional voice-overs add a lot of production quality to the game and make the 
 dialogue more interesting.
  A problem that I found with this game is the technical glitches that lead to crashes. There were 
 instances where I was forced to restart my computer when the screen became pitch black. The problem 
 is not bad enough to discourage me from continuing with the game, but it I prefer to live without 
 these annoying crashes. The game has SecuRom copy protection that requires an internet connection 
 to activate installation before playing. The copy protection will allow you to activate the game 
 on three computers before you have to call technical support and request more installations. The 
 bright side of this copy protection is that you do not have to insert the DVD into the drive to 
 play.
  In summary, Mass Effect has a top-notch story with great production quality that RPG fans will 
 love. It also has great combat against a diverse menu of enemies. If you are into exploring a large 
 gameworld, Mass Effect will appease you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gooeykat
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 8:06 am PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to this game and unfortunately it is a bit disappointing. My main 
 quibbles are:
  
  - Technical glitches - the games has many visual bugs and lacks major polish in this area. Texture 
 pop-in and artifacts plague the game. Extremely low FPS in some areas (such as Citadel Tower) then 
 no issues at all in others. No in game anti-aliasing, poorly implemented motion blur.
  
  - No direct control over party members. This is a change for the worse that Bioware made from previous 
 games like KOTOR. The companion AI is pretty bad and they tend to get killed pretty easily during 
 the those intense and difficult situations when you need them the most.
  
  - Cliched story (save the galaxy) and poor character choices and role play. You're pretty much 
 playing a good character, you can choose to be a bit of an hard-nose soldier or compassionate, 
 pansy diplomat, but in the end the result is the same. You're on a tight leash when it comes to 
 way you want to role play.
  
  - Side Quests are an absolute joke. They are boring and the reward for doing them aren't high enough. 
 Exploration is the biggest draw back for this game, which for me is pretty important. I love exploring 
 every part of my RPGs, every map and every side quest. This game really falls short in these two 
 areas.
  
  There are some good things in Mass Effect of course.
  
  - The combat is pretty fun and tactical, requires thought and planning. Would be much better if 
 the companion AI was better. They simply don't know how to take cover.
  
  - The much hyped NPC dialogue is pretty solid and really pulls you into the game, makes it more 
 immersive. Every line of dialogue is spoken.
  
  - Character customization is pretty good. You can choose different styles of combat and specialize 
 in different types of weapons. The biotic powers are pretty useful, but more could of done in this 
 area, there just isn't enough variation. Different types of ammo, weapon modifications and armor 
 to play with.
  
  Generally speaking Mass Effect is a solid RPG but just not a ground breaking one.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nemo_85
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  The GOOD: 
  
  Great plot that draws you in || Simple, effective, and just plain fun combat system || Integration 
 of biotic abilities add a "force power" feel || Dialog and voice acting are superb || Character 
 models are creative and detailed || Good graphics, sound 
  
  The BAD:
  
  Technical issues || Poorly designed inventory system || A few minor gameplay bugs || Redundant 
 side missions
  
  
  Overall, I would recommend that anyone play this game who loves a good story. The plot keeps you 
 guessing and trying to figure out what is going to happen next. 
  
  As a role playing game, the game is more fluid that games that would use D&D rules. Leveling up 
 is not really a big deal, you just basically make your character attacks/abilities more effective. 
 There is an integrated "feat system" that allows rewards for progressing high in certain areas, 
 although it is rather limited in scope. 
  
  The dialog throughout the entire game is amazing. The voice acting is some of the best I have seen, 
 and the corresponding animations put other RPG's to shame. Additionally, the dialog system is set 
 up so that you don't get to really read the "options" your character can use for a reply, but instead 
 you are given a list of "intentions" to which you choose. The result is that you have to think 
 (not just read) about the responses you can make and try to understand where they may lead. 
  
  The game suffers from some technical issues, namely it seems to have some intermittent crashes, 
 even on a system that more than exceeds the recommended requirements -- and this has been reported 
 by a large number of users. Additionally, there are a few gameplay bugs that are "known" but not 
 solved, which means you have to either find a workaround, or know the workaround. 
  
  The inventory system is not the best. Early in the game you will find yourself probably very confused 
 whenever using it. Although this dissipates as you play the game, the system still suffers from 
 other things. There is an item limit on the number of things you can carry, and if you find yourself 
 maxed in the middle of a battle you will either have to forgo picking up anything else or stop 
 for about ten minutes to reduce items not needed into omni-gel. Alternatively, you can sell items, 
 but this can only be done in certain situations, i. e. you need a store to sell to. The best way 
 to compensate, I found, is to keep this in mind when playing it and either reducing items you don't 
 need to omni-gel early, or selling to stores consistently (or a combination of both) . 
  
  Despite the setback of Mass Effect, it is a worthwhile game, to be sure. The good things about 
 this game more than outweigh the bad. I was even tolerant of the occasional crash because the rest 
 of the game was just that good. The learning curve of the game requires some patience, but it is 
 patience well spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krisbowe
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Good graphics..... too much fiddling with settings to get a game running. Whatever happened to buy 
 it, open it, install it, play it.?????????
  
  
  Now we have to revert to different drivers, update, rollback, hack config files, change shortcut 
 paths... etc
  
  (and Yes I paid for it form the store!!)
  
  The premise itself is great, the gameplay is great, the graphics are really good (excepting the 
 bugs still plauging this game) , it does have replay value.
  
  The voice acting is well done. The character rigging during cutscenes is very well done with the 
 attention to detail needed. ( No bendy hands, or weird hair going into faces.... etc)
  
  Reccomend to friends? yes
  Replay? yes in time after i have forgotten the story
  Buy the sequel 
 (if any) ? Yes
  Let young kids play it? maybe, depends on their ability to differentiate between play and reality
 
  Have I seen better recently? Yes (Crysis for graphics, Portal for sheer fun factor) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hayk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  story is amazing.
  graphics are amazing.
  sound is amazing.
  rpg elements done well
  squad control is cool , but allies don't always fight the way you want them to fight. ( like a 
 sniper might run up to the enemy etc) . could be done a little better at least.
  Dialogue is very interesting and very realistic,
  big world to explore with many planets.
  
 BUT the game is too damn short. On of the shortest rpg's ever. Its quality over quantity here, 
 but at least replay value is good. different classes play quite diffidently. Well maybe i only 
 feel its too short because its an amazing game, while it lasts. it really leaves you asking for 
 more of the same. i hope they will make a sequel.
  actually this game is one of the best games Ive ever played, of any genres, along with age of empires 
 2, Tekken 3, final fantasy X, Oblivion, Crysis, half life 2, etc. really a very good game you wont 
 regret playing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pranker99
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2008 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect, a game created by genius'. The story line of Mass effect starts off with you on a 
 ship answering questions about your heroic deeds. In the game you are a war hero and become more 
 famous as the game moves on. Within the game you are the person trying to save all living things 
 from evil machines called, "Reapers." These Reapers were created by an ancient force that has been 
 creating life and destroying it for eons. The civilizations learn of the Reapers from the previous 
 civilization and so on. Your character gains two party memebers to go around world to world in 
 search of minerls, artifacts, and of course, Sarren. Sarren is the evil character who goes about 
 trying to bring the Reapers back. So the basic plot of the game is to go around and stop Sarren 
 wherever he may go. All in all i thought the game was amazing and that a sequel should be made. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armaan8014
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 2:12 am PT
Review:  The game is one of the absolute best that i have ever played (if not THE best) . The main highlight 
 of the game according to me would be the story, which keeps surprising you with the plot. The game 
 doesn't necessarily emphasize on decision making, but how tactful you are defines how successful 
 you may be. 
  The story in short is about a guy named Shepard, who becomes the commander of a ship called Normandy. 
 He then has to pursue a traitor of the council, and along the way uncovers many conspiracies and 
 secrets, which alarm even the player.
  The game play is a LOT of fun, this being a game in which you just love to shoot enemies. You can 
 take cover, sprint, and command your squad accordingly to win a battle.
  The graphics are truly AMAZING, with very minute details of even the skin present.
  All, in all, 
 it would be crazy to not lay this game, whatever the platform be. Its a revolutionary masterpiece. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: addicted2050
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 3, 2008 10:05 pm PT
Review:  I've always been a fan of Bioware's RPGs. They always have a good story, great NPCs and character 
 interactions, and interesting gameplay. To me, no one beats them in making RPGs. When I first read 
 about Mass Effect, I too was swept up in the hype surrounding it, and I just couldn't wait for 
 it to release and start playing it. Well, I'm afraid, for me, it hasn't quite lived up to the hype....
 
  
  THE GOOD: Mass Effect has a very good story. The space opera setting is great, with some cool alien 
 races. Any sci-fi fan will love it. Some of the cutscenes are really cinematic, and make you feel 
 like you're watching a movie. 
  
  The dialogue system is innovative, and the ability to choose your answer before a character has 
 finished speaking keeps the conversation going without a break and gives it a cinematic feel. 
 
  
  The graphics are beautiful, with a cheerful color palette. There are some glitches here and there, 
 but not enough to even make the slightest difference. The character animations are very good, although 
 facial expressions in Half-Life 2 still have no match. 
  
  The sound is good, with things sounding alien enough to be believable. The music is good, but keeps 
 a low profile through the main game, but ramps up during important cutscenes.
  
  THE BAD: 
  The dialogue in this game is really cheesy, and though it looked nice during the first 
 playthrough, it really annoyed me during my second time during the game. Its not all bad, but some 
 of it really sounds like it was written by a 10-year old. Also, all that advertising about being 
 able to interrupt NPCs while they were talking was just for show. After you select a response, 
 the game always waits for the NPC to stop speaking.
  
  The voice acting, although not bad, is nothing special. Commander Shephard, the player character, 
 delivers most of his/her dialogue without any emotion or expression. Captain Anderson, one of the 
 important NPCs, voiced by Keith David, always seems to be all worked up while voicing his lines. 
 The other characters voice their lines convincingly, but no one deserves unquestioning praise.
 
  
  And my biggest complain against this game is the lack of character interactions with your party 
 members. You can only talk to them while you're on your ship in between quests, and that too, only 
 about a limited number of things. During the quests, you cannot start a conversation with any of 
 your party members. They'll just reply with one liners during the quests like "Area Clear" or "This 
 doesn't feel right". Really disappointing, especially for a Bioware game.
  
  The gameplay is nothing spectacular, neither feeling like an RPG, nor like a first person shooter. 
 All the guns look almost the same. Bioware ended up with a mediocre gameplay which doesn't have 
 much fun or excitement.
  
  Also, the sex scene in the game was completely unnecessary. There was no need to put something 
 adult in a game otherwise so clean in its language and dialogue.
  
  THE BORING:
  Mass Effect has got to have the most boring and unimaginative side quests in RPG history. 99% of 
 them have the same structure: land on a planet, drive the M35 Mako to the anomaly, kill the bad 
 guys, then return to the ship. Its really boring to go riding on a planet just to salvage some 
 junk, which is almost never useful. 
  
  Final Words:
  Mass Effect is good, but the bad and boring parts really weigh it down. I'm giving it a 7, because 
 even despite all its fault, I had fun playing the main campaign. Now all I can hope is that Dragon 
 Age: Origins, Bioware's next RPG, will be better, and more like the previous Bioware RPGs that 
 we've come to love.
  
  PROS:
  Good, exciting story and plot
  Beautiful graphics that run pretty smoothly
  Innovative dialogue system
  Good voice acting..
 
  
  CONS:
  Average gameplay
  Voice acting not so good
  Lack of interactions with party members
  Really boring sidequests
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grendel_152
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 3:48 am PT
Review:  Every now and then I feel like a sci-fi RPG, so I check around and try to get something good. This 
 game came up everytime...
  
  I like to finish my games so after 40 or so hours:
  
  - the dialogue system was a nice change and the voice acting was likewise good. There was much 
 hype surrounding the ability to dictate the dialogue and 'interupt' npcs etc, but this was really 
 not that impressive; eventually you get sick of npc talk (like any game) and skip to your own input, 
 where in this case, your character talks before the npc finishes his/her dialogue. in rare instances 
 your character even makes some kind preprogrammed gesture - this fails to be interesting very quickly. 
 
  
  - cut scenes are nice with some good cinematrography work. Some of the later scenes are worth watching 
 but not sure worth playing 15 hours for.
  
  - inventory system is also a nice change, with decent ways to upgrade weapons and items.
  
 
  - onmi gel was a bit of a waste of time.
  
  - story line was very good.
  
  - background info was great. there was a lot of work put into the descriptions of technology, history, 
 races, resources, etc. Altough it would have been nice to maybe find some info for easter eggs 
 or rewards for reading/listening to these.
  
  - the combat was a another nice change but overall average. The squad orders were mostly superflous. 
 Squad members were told where to stand what weapon to use and sometimes what specials to use. In 
 the end though squad management was time consuming and why spend time managing your squad when 
 it is faster and just as effective to not bother in most scenarios.
  
  - character classes limited the weapon use and it was a shame to be locked out of e. g. snipers 
 and assualt rifles. Sure your squad might have these unlocked but you want your character to creatively 
 use these not an npc. Specialising in any one weapon pretty much made it primary and the only one 
 to use, making picking up some maxed-out assult rifle useless to you... maybe just equip it to 
 a squad member along with all the other maxed-out assualt rifles.
  
  - skill sets were the norm as expected
  
  - graphics were good. not too demanding for an average 
 system and still very nice.
  
  - character design, vehicle, spacecraft, environment design was all very good. Beautiful scenes, 
 landscapes and fantastic characters made a wonderful looking world.
  
  - Gameplay was extremely linear. There was a handful of subquests floating around the main story 
 line but it all required the same thing... go to a system, survey the planets, look for the hidden 
 asteroid to survey, land on a planet, drive the MAKO to the anomally, drive to the debris, drive 
 to the mine, enter a building (which has the same layout as every other building on every other 
 planet apart from some random boxes inside) , kill the npcs, return to normandy, repeat your steps 
 for the next system. 
  
  - main plot gameplay was repetative aswell but at least had a little more variations to environment 
 design.
  
  - very dissapointed there was no space vessel combat; either ship to ship style or RTS.
  
  
 - there was no significant trade system. You just sell all your extra gear every few missions.. 
 pretty soon you have too much money that you do not do anything with.. maybe would have been nice 
 to be able to set up trade fleet on the side.. manage trade networks, informaation networks, something 
 extra to the giant linear direction of the entire game.
  
  - the acheivement system is always nice, but in looking into my achievements why would i want to 
 replay the game to check off a medal when it requires hours of linear gameplay again using a different 
 weapon or character... even using a different class would prove to be the same contents but different 
 bucket.
  
  - the complete linearity might be suited to a younger gamer. I do not intend offense but i am sure 
 a gamer under 14 might not be too concerned about storylines being too linear, although I am sure 
 they are also not interested in reading the history of races, or technological backgrounds. 
  
  - I am very disappointed that the editor's choice for this game has been so high and am now 
 not confident in their reviews. 
  
  Overall I feel this game has some fantastic aspects and has the basis or skeleton for a great game. 
 However, it falls way too short. There is so much more content and lateral gameplay that could 
 be added. Of course a game cannot be endless and development budget comes into play but it is a 
 shame to see a potentially great game fail. It is also a great dissapointment to see everyone eat 
 up all the hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  I cannot give this game more 8.5. Don't get me wrong, the game is amazingly well done and 8.5 is 
 brilliant mark. However, it lacks many things which in my view prevent it from reaching the 9 mark 
 threshold. 
  
  I played it a few weeks back so I am not under the impression of the game but I have to say that 
 while playing it I surely was impressed. To get straight to the point, the game has good graphics 
 but the thing is too many graphical things are just simple, like sand on each planet or the citadel 
 high up floors. Even though it all looks more than satisfactory it doesn't come close to the recent 
 games such as Bioshock, Crysis and such. So, I just wanted to establish that even though the game 
 has good graphics and some amazing vistas and scenery, it is all in essence a lot simpler than 
 the high-spec games these days. 
  
  One thing that was annoying for me was running or walking for that matter. As soon as you want 
 your guy to stop and you release the controls, he doesn't stop, he takes one extra step before 
 actually stopping which can be annoying. Kind of reminded me of the old days in Prince of Persia 
 when it was still 2D. Not sure how many people will remember that.
  
  Another thing that I have to observe is that the combat is just OK, it is not anything spectacular 
 and the enemies are rather simple (not in the Ai sense but in the graphical sense) , even though 
 there is a fair variety of enemies to encounter. 
  
  Going around different planets and fullfilling tasks and finding minerals and stuff are all just 
 side quests which are slightly lame and are there to simply take away from your time. Those side 
 missions can be very simple and the design of every facility or even every mine/cave for that matter 
 is the same. You have the entrance, the empty halls, another corridor, then the enemies and then 
 towards the end 2 or sometimes 3 doors where the final enemy is. Not enough attention was paid 
 to these side missions and even though they help immerse you in the game, their repetitivness does 
 become boring. 
  
  Finally, I have to say that the game, even though it has some role play elements, they basically 
 come down to talking to a lot of people, and your choice of words and actions does not really affect 
 your path, so they are just there for fun. Once you are done talking you do the shooting and that's 
 it. 
  
  Having said all the criticism, I must say that going on the side missions can be boring but it 
 can also be useful if you are bored and want to prolong the game experience like I always try to. 
 It immerses you in the game further. Voices are done perfectly. There are certain combat things 
 that you can use, such as using your squad, biotics etc etc, talking to people is fun and it does 
 give you an option whether to to be good or evil basically. Do you do stuff by the rules/consciousness 
 or you just want to do things quickly when you know you are right. You can also intimidate or persuade 
 and these are very useful skills. You can upgrade your skills, buy new weaponry and armour which 
 can be very fun, although I really dislike the fact that you can go through the game easily without 
 buying anything because all the new upgrades are always available as a loot during your missions. 
 It gives no incentive to save money up for some new upgrade or a new amazing weapon or armour. 
 So, I think I mentioned all the bad aspects now, the last being the ufairly useless upgrade system.
 
  
  The good stuff definetely outweighs the bad stuff. Even though the story is a lciche where you 
 defend the universe, it is very hard to develop a story in a unique way and these guys have managed 
 to do it. I like the storyline, I like the chats, I like the missions and I like the fact that 
 you can run around meeting new people and sometimes you get a mission from them too. The game is 
 impressively done and I think objectively it deserves an 8 but the fact is that I personally like 
 a game where you can talk to characters and have your own path which basically adds to immersivness 
 and role-play elements to straight up shooters. There are tough choices to make and your squad 
 will always have new things to say after each new mission. 
  
  OK, I understand this review may not be too clear but I think people who have played the game will 
 understand it whereas those who have not played the game can just look at the scores below and 
 see what I think of each of the game aspects.
  
  
  
  
  
  Anyways, to the marking system now.
  
  
  
  Graphics: 8/10 - not too impressive in their 
 own rights, but impressively innovative.
  
  Controls: 8/10 - some difficulties but not much
  
  Immersiveness: 9/10 - I'm not sure how immersive 
 the game would be without the side missions but the dialogue and the fact that you can have different 
 dialogue options, choose your path and have new dialogue options with your squad every time as 
 well as more and more dialogue options depending on your skills is is surely praiseworthy
  
  
  Bugs: 8/10 - I have only encountered two bugs, and one is a weapon cooldown system where 
 the weapons do not cool down after overheating sometimes and become unusable but simple quickload 
 solves the problem.
  
  Voices: 9.5/10 - I don't like giving perfect scores and 9.5 is as close as it gets to perfect, 
 on 0.5 increments.
  
  Sounds: 8/10 - pretty good environmental sounds
  
  Storyline: 9/10 - nothing new but new aspects to the deja vu story which definitely a good thing.
 
  
  Length: 9/10 - this is the mark if you do the side missions, but if you do not, then the game should 
 be longer.
  
  Music: 9/10 - some very nice and varying music depending on the situation you are in
  
  Difficulty: 
 8/10 - the difficulty is good because you can change it and you have loads of upgrades to make 
 yourself more powerful than your enemies.
  
  Gameplay: the gameplay overall which combines all these aspects means that the game deserves 8/10 
 but because I am personally bias and like role play games more than straight up shooters so I will 
 give is 8.5/10
  
  
  
  Overall: 8.5 / 10
  
  
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent 
 and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing if you have nothing else good to play
  6 - worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely 
 anything else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 since if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10)
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life. This applies unless I really am impressed 
 with a game and this game is fairly impressive because even though it has its shortcomings the 
 whole package but together works very very well.
  
  
  
  I do apologise for the grammar and spelling mistakes, I really cannot be bothered to go through 
 it all correcting it. If I got paid I'd be a perfectionist but I don't get paid for this stuff. 
 I basically do it for myself so I can remember what good games I have played.
  
  
  Best Wishes to everyone
  
  Zak 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IMASHOOPDAWHOOP
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2008 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Wow. Just wow. Mass Effect has been the most memorable gaming experience of my life. I had been 
 waiting for it since October 5th 2005 and the moment I saw it I knew it would be incredible.
  
  The gameplay is amazing and I am very glad they implemented a cover system, the character creation 
 is incredibly deep and the backstory is awesome, the books are a very worthy addition to this masterpiece. 
 The partner system that lets you choose to partners to go with you on a mission is awesome, biotic 
 powers add just the right amount of mayhem in combat especially if someone is hiding behind a crate, 
 just lift the crate up and fire away!
  
  
  This game is monumental and you need to buy it.
  Then Fallout 3 came along and now Fallout 3 
 surpasses ME in every way except for dialogue and movement. ENJOY THESE TWO GAMES. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ubermensche
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 30, 2008 1:01 am PT
Review:  I really wanted to like this game. I was anticipating this one for awhile. The problem I was going 
 up against was the fact that I have never been able to get into a BioWare game. 
  
  The good aspects are the visuals, voice acting, and the concept of the game. I can run this thing 
 MAX with my 512MB 8800GT. It's pretty. I like the idea of being in space and dealing with multiple 
 planets. The problem is that a game this big needs an intriguing story with good pacing. Compared 
 to other open-ended RPG's like Oblivion and now Fallout 3, Mass Effect can not compare in terms 
 of pacing and keeping me interested to wade through mini-quests. 
  
  I feel the design of the world is very interesting as well. It's a shame that I can't get sucked 
 into the story as much as the environment. The other problem I have is the battle system. I just 
 do not like it much I think it feels kind of clunky. I also had problems with difficulty quite 
 often. I would go do a side quest and would instantly get annihilated in the first room. The problem 
 is there is no way of detecting difficulty or knowing where to go. Things are just to vague for 
 me. Couple this with story that can't draw me in and you can see why I lost interest. It's too 
 bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamrob7
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2008 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Once every blue moon a game comes along like this one... an absolute masterpiece...
  
  Epic and excellent storyline... presented and executed impeccably. It will leave you desperately 
 wanting the story to continue at the end of the game.
  
  The combat and actual gaming dynamics works extremely well also, espcially when you have a decent 
 gun. Really exceptional stuff for a game of its type.
  
  The side missions are repetative in nature but the joy of being able to traverse space... land on 
 planets and roam around in your buggy made me actually hope for more.
  
  Literally this is like watching a 10/10 sci-fi movie but playing the game also... the story never 
 drags... things are always happening... there are suprises... moments when you sit back and just think 
 wow... i could watch this game as a movie nevermind just play it.
  
  To top that all off the sound is perfection... literally perfect... even the music when you open 
 the galaxy map stays with you so much it is a pleasure to open the map to hear it.
  
  So immersive and enjoyable the makers of this game deserve a big payrise. I hope they make more 
 games because if this is anything to go by we will be in for a treat.
  
  Seriously I cannot speak any higher of this game. I was dreading the game ending it was that good... the 
 plot is just phenominal....
  
  Best game I have ever played alongside Deus Ex. Can't wait for a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Mo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 
  
  This is what i call a true third person roleplaying game, The shooting, the cover, the missions, 
 the decisions and the leveling up all falls into place to make this game truly an RPG form the 
 future. The cover system is really good and ordering your squad and giving them weapons and armour 
 is all fun as for the first time ever in a shooter you take complete control of everything in the 
 mission. The RPG elements are great as you create your own player, gender and looks. The game plays 
 out really great, giving you six classes to choose from, examples include the soldier who uses 
 guns and the vanguard who uses spells.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are great, the planets looks outstanding, the holograms are great and the shuttle 
 that moves you around looks great from the exterior and the interior. The many species look great 
 and so do the humans. The graphics in this game are truly next gen.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound is great from shooting to just conversations which really take an effect on how the game 
 is played. The accents are nailed and each species has different type of voices from robotic to 
 low deep voices.
  
  Value:
  
  Worth the money? Yes, i mean why not? It's a great game, its long and will last, the story is great 
 and it's truly an experience that should not be missed. Sure there is no multiplayer but still 
 the game features many many unique third person experiences that are magnificent and you will not 
 experience them anywhere else.
  
  Lifespan:
  
  This game will last, the main adventure is not too short and even when you finish the main storyline, 
 there are still thousands of secondary objectives and planets that still need to be dealt with. 
 So yes this game will last you along time especially if your aiming for achievements or just wanting 
 to play the game with another class. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colt_1911
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  this game, when first seeing it.. i just thought it was another hellgate: london type rpg.. but 
 i kept hearing all kinds of good things about it, so i decided to buy it in june, and since then 
 i have beaten the game at least 10 times, but i keep re-playing it over and over because the game 
 to me, has really high re-play value.. EA and bioware did a really good job with the game.. and 
 the fact you can continue with a previous character, and keep leveling up, and gaining XP, more 
 money, etc.. it changes everytime i have played it.. when i beat it the first time, i just told 
 myself that i had to play it again.. but a little different.. you could go through one play doing 
 nothing but gaining paragon points, and doing good. or go through the next play as a self-help 
 renegade and gain nothing but renegade points.. then the next game, play a little of both.. its 
 just totally highly addictive.. i have never played an rpg this much.. and since it deals with 
 guns and grenades, in the future, i like it alot.. dont get me wrong, im all for rpg's like oblivion.. 
 but thats it.. to me, mass effect never gets old.. or repetive, but yes the convo's get old after 
 about 2 plays, and you know where to go, but once you get the insanity difficulty, the game actually 
 gets a little challeged and you actually have to try and stay alive since enemies take a whole 
 lot more damage and hurt you more than when you play the game for the very first time, but over 
 all, i give the game a 10, because like i said, the game has really high re-play value, changes 
 just about everytime you play it, VERY GOOD storyline, graphics are top notch, and making love 
 to ashley is funny to watch everytime. and if you are a girl in the game, making love to kaidan 
 is odd... but other than that, the achievements give you a little extra objective to do while you 
 play.. and the fact that when you do get the medal, it gives you like the ability to add assault 
 rifles to an adept, or sentinel class character, and extra shield strength, extra health, 10% more 
 XP when you kill an enemy, etc.. just over all the best 50 bucks i spent ever on a computer game. 
 hands down 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funker_
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect places you in the role of Commander Shepard, part of the team that serves in the Alliance, 
 based on your actions, you will decide the future for Shepard, that includes shaping his physical 
 appearance, background of character (ethnic background etc) and personality, all these things play 
 a big part as the game progresses, along the way you will meet new character that will help you 
 accomplish your mission.
  
  Positive points:
  + Huge gameplay world that will baffle first time players, ranging from the milky way, to clusters 
 of colonized and dangerous planets, with a few planets you can't land on.
  
  + A lot of detail put in every corridor, planet description and characters.
  
  + Characters 
 you will interact with all have characteristics which make them easy to love and hate, completed 
 with a bow and solid voiceacting and character design.
  
  +  telling carries a burden when you are up to make tough choices 
 within the game.
  
  + Single player campaign is completed 10-20 hours, pending on how fast you play, that doesn't include 
 the stellar side quests that ask you to travel to foreign planets.
  
  + Musical score is top notch.
  
  + Huge, huge array of weapons, weapon upgrades, and different 
 types of armors, all custom made for every specie you find ingame.
  
  + Art design ranges from space-industrial to organic corridors, graphics are up there with the 
 best if you can forgive the loading textures.
  
  + Characters that you carry with you as squad members have different things to say when you enter 
 a new type of environment, commenting on the weather, architecture, people that live there etc.
 
  
  Negative points:
  - Some side quests are really shallow, ranging from infiltrating a zillion bases to collecting 
 a certain item.
  
  - Players might have some trouble navigating through the inventory.
  
  - Hacking gets really, really boring.
  
  - Single player story ends, without letting you 
 continue the game doing side quests etc.
  
  - Not so much for multiplayer gameplay.
  
  - Technical support is mostly homebrew, with cracks distributed for problems that I even had with 
 a retail version of the game (can't use the galaxy map, can't save the game, etc) .
  
  - Renegade and Paragon points don't bring that much to the dialog in the game, only offering a 
 few options in some specific conversations.
  
  - Very anti-climatic ending.
  
  - The infamous sex scene doesn't offer that much to character development, except it makes an illusion 
 that you are playing a mature game.
  
  ---
  
  Overall, the game presents itself really well, it has rich characters, solid gameplay, a solid 
 story and an excellent way of story telling this game should satisfy your needs if you need a new 
 RPG to waste your time on.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: babke
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 1:06 am PT
Review:  There are a small number of games that I really wait to be published, one of those games was Mass 
 Effect. To be honest I'm not sure why, I've seen a lot of the great reviews of the game but those 
 can always be a bit of target. Unfortunately I've had to wait for the PC version and there were 
 a lot of things said for the XBOX release... Somehow, I've had great hopes that this game will 
 justify all the hype around it. Well it did.
  
  I'm a great fan of RPG games because if they're good, they can really immerse you in the world 
 and you can have a great time developing your character. This was one of such games that i really 
 enjoyed throughout.
  
  Even though the technical side of the game is something that's not the most important for the RPG 
 gamers, I'll discuss those points as well.
  
  Graphics are beautiful and smooth, far above something I was expecting. There are some minor issues, 
 but they are so minor and non-intrusive that I'll not even bother talking about them.
  
  Music was a pleasant surprise, it really gives you the feeling of what's going on and most of the 
 time it's not pulling your attention from what's going on, but rather giving that additional "color" 
 to the situation. 
  
  Story. Yes, one of the most important parts of the game (at least for the genre) is spot on. It's 
 well developed, well written, well organized with all of the separate parts. Even a lot of the 
 side quests fit very nicely into the main plot. Absolutely amazing.
  
  The sole problem that i might find with the game, could be considered marginal by some, but not 
 so much by me. You see, most of the time in the game you'll be traveling from planet to planet. 
 For the major of those, you'll spend a lot of time in your Mako "moon buggy". and i mean A LOT 
 of time. It can become boring. and it will... you can count on that... Fortunately the rest of 
 the game is soon engaging that this thing will not stop you until you get to that final sequence!
 
  
  To quickly sum things up, even the issue that i have with the game couldn't really spoil the fun 
 and the great time the game gave me. And after spending a lot of time with it, I wished for it 
 to continue... 
  
  If you played the game, i know you agree, if you didn't play it. Don't miss it, it's worth every 
 penny...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooya_d
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 11:43 pm PT
Review:  this game is really worth playing but there are some good and bad things about it
  
  good :
  1. Interactions with world around you really fun.
  
  2. The main storyline is really 
 interesting and it keeps getting better and better as you proceed .
  
  3. graphic is really good.
  
  bad :
  
  1. some quests are really time wasting and boring
 
  2. some quests takes you sooooooo long to complete
  3. character special abilities are some much alike
  4. some weapons are almost useless
  
  there 
 are many different worlds you are about to challenge which is a good thing really but the point 
 is they are ( most of them ) point less !!!!!!!!!!
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: DieselCat18
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Half way through and I must say this is one of the most enjoyable games I've played this year. 
 The story is the most in-depth I have encountered to date, the graphics are terrific along with 
 the sound track and the combat is highly entertaining and fun. The character development is along 
 the lines of a big budget Hollywood movie. With all the Pro's I've mentioned, there is not perfect 
 game in this world and to be far I do have a few minor cons. For me it was my ability to figure 
 out what to do first. The order in which assignments or missions was a bit confusing to me and 
 I wasn't sure if there they needs to be accomplished in any certain order or not. This made it 
 a bit unconfortable for me in the back of my mind. Maybe not having played many RPG's in the past 
 contributed to this. The other same issue I had was the elevator, it seemed to take forever and 
 getting in and out was cumbersome. 
  BioWare has out done themselves with this game and I'm looking forward to seeing what the ending 
 reveals and then go back for another helping of pure enjoyment with MASS EFFECT. I Hope to see 
 a Mass Effect 2 in the near future. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bew199
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Going to Switch box, an internet cafe type of place, i sat down at one of their computers saw it 
 and started playing. Immediately I couldn't stop! The game play has great controls and graphics 
 to match the really good sound system incorporated into it. Now its like an RPG in the sense there's 
 classes and skills for each. but your not going to spend your time swinging a sword at something 
 that just won't die, you get to shoot the living crap out of it! its 3rd person like Gears of War, 
 with a similar cover set up so your not just standing behind the corner and leaning out, your against 
 the wall blind firing or aiming with any weapon of your choice. 
  
  The game hold a customization aspect as well with both you and your party. You get 2 buddies to 
 help you get through the levels, some people are better at things than others but are different 
 classes you might not want. So after you've customized you and your squads abilities you can then 
 customize the weapons, similar to that of Dark Sector, as well at your armor and its specialties. 
 There's also the fact you come across different pieces of armor and weapons. All in all? This game 
 revolves around customization along with action.
  
  Now there is a bit of a quest thing going on in this game but there isn't a single level that you 
 don't get to pump someone full of lead. It also helps that throughout this whole game there's a 
 variety of enemies and aliens that are unique and not ripping something off another game like star 
 wars or star trek.
  
  If you have a computer that can handle the game, and the money for the game, i would buy it. The 
 combination of futuristic action, limitless customization, and a good storyline, make this a great 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagnusTW
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  Frankly, to get an idea of what Mass Effect is, combine Star Wars: KOTOR with an easier Gears of 
 War and you've got it. And, oh, yeah, it is as awesome as that makes it sound. The gunplay is exhilirating, 
 not to mention totally unexpected and extremely well-implemented for an RPG, and the use of skills 
 (techs, bionics, etc.) add some strategy to the combat - which is, really, nothing short of combining 
 the best of two (very different) worlds, and its done flawlessly. The atmosphere is absolutely 
 perfect. The sound is outstanding, especially the voice acting. The game itself is short, but every 
 second is amazing, and at least it can't be cited for overstaying its welcome. This is easily within 
 my top 5 favorite games of all time, and I'm so glad it was made. There are some flaws, of course, 
 as there are in every game, but I never once - not one single time - thought than any particular 
 shortcoming detracted from the game in any noticeable way whatsoever. It's really good. Got it? 
 Ok. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kipparoglou
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 1:14 am PT
Review:  The easiest way to grasp Mass Effect is to imagine Knights of the Old Republic. Strip out the Star 
 Wars licence and replace it with some serious-but-well-crafted original fiction, then remove all 
 the pause-time strategy-style comba. Replace it with competent but unspectacular third-person shooter 
 tactical action, complete with cover system and team-mate ordering. The RPG skills influence the 
 game, in terms of special powers and improved shooting abilities. So, like Deus Ex, the amount 
 your sniper-sight wobbles is based upon your character's ability and the quality of your weapon. 
 And, like Deus Ex, its worth is less in the individual action sequences, and more in the synergy 
 between the RPG development, the action and the frame of a developing story. The results are splendid. 
 Kristan gave it a strong eight, and that's what I'd give it too, so if you're one of those sort 
 of people you can go and get back to comparing PS3 and Xbox 360 screenshots for errant pixels. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2008 3:05 am PT
Review:  Finding that one of the Specters betrayed the council and civilization, you need to find this traitor, 
 and put an end to the war!
  
  An amazingly large game with hundreds of quests and sub quests that will keep you busy for months 
 if you do it right. The Story is captivating with few real twists, but still really really good. 
 
  
  The Graphics are great. Realistic looking humans and Aliens that look like they could actually 
 exist. The Music used in this game was fantastic. They should bring out a sound track. I'd buy 
 it. :)
  
  The weapons upgrades are also well thought of and can actually look a little daunting when you 
 first start the game. But after a few hours your be in and out of the upgrades screen with the 
 greatest of ease. Not only can you swat your gun out for something with a bit more punch, but you 
 can actually upgrade the bullets and other gun settings as well. 
  
  The character upgrade feature is also really well thought out. Upgrading specific areas unlocks 
 new upgrades. And some (or even all) areas have little powers to go with them. For example, you 
 upgrade your Rifle and you get a Power up that you can use that will stop your gun from over heating 
 and that does more damage. 
  
  A really long game with some parts that you feel you would like to die, like driving around a planet 
 looking for materials is not my idea of fun. But hey, it's part of the deal.
  
  Awesome game, I'd totally recommend it
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mickeymicks
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  This game is really awesome! 
  
  I loved the gameplay, the story and the style. Most of the time i felt like i was watching a really 
 great movie but i'm the one in control!
  
  Most of the cut scenes were really great. The sounds/conversations were just stellar (i guess that's 
 the appropriate adjective since the voices feature some well known personalities) . Also the soundtrack 
 is a killer - the song that plays in the background for the credits is really something. But from 
 all of this, it was the great story that really got me hooked.. okay, maybe not - it was the combination 
 of everything in the game. 
  
  okay, to me it's reminiscent of Knights of the Old Republic (i loved that game, btw) , but Mass 
 Effect has it's own charm, not to mention new graphics. I didn't give it a perfect 10 though, because 
 of that. I wished that the graphics would have been more polished (i had the settings on high/ultra-high 
 but it wasn't what i had expected) . Also, (as always) i hate load screens) . There are also times 
 that i get annoyed at not being able to skip some cutscenes (i. e. when i need to go thru a scene 
 several times due to critical/mission failure' in the game) . Still, this game is super!
  
  i really recommend this to all RPG/FPS (umm.. but more to RPGers) . If you love RPG (or KOTR or 
 maybe even sci-fi movies) then this is a must! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlp071
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 6:47 am PT
Review:  Well game is surprisingly shallow. Sidequests are pretty much same , wrapped up in slightly different 
 presentations.
  
  You go to the xy planet and then fight group of NPC's in one room, rather easily, while your NPC 
 teammates require more attention the 3 year old kid (is there any AI in this game?) .
  
  After that you don't even have to bother returning back to quest giver (most of the times) , since 
 you will get auto update. Rinse and repeat. There is no continuation of quest , it ends right there 
 and then.
  
  Main quest , despite being very generic, gives little bit more excitement , but is wrapped up in 
 "one way street" , no options (or freedom) to maneuver outside small corridor that is given to you 
 for movement. And it's still incredibly easy. Not to mention that "conversation ring" thing makes 
 me wanna scream, how pathetic solution that is.
  
  Charisma points make your conversation options flawless, there is no chance to mess up, and they 
 even color your answers for you (laughable) , so i don't see any RPG in that.
  
  Other then "fancy graphics", which i can run it on all maxed, i don't see anything that is really 
 intriguing. There is no replay value whatsoever. I don't see even any play value after certain point, 
 due to repetition of everything.
  
  Overall, it's really disappointing game, hidden under false statement of being "true RPG", but what 
 can you expect from something that is originally designed for console limitations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 999realthings
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2008 1:52 am PT
Review:  Like all Bioware games, Mass Effect is a game all about choices and it's good to see even the good 
 guys will make evil choice if it can save the galaxy. Mass Effect dialogue is greatly improved 
 from previous game from Bioware, Mass Effect let's you pick a tone for your response instead of 
 making you read countless lines, you just choose the tone you want to set. The shooting part game 
 is incredible even if it does not require much aiming skills of quick reaction with a good cover 
 system in it. The story is very unique with each character having a great deep background story 
 for you to explore. The universe of Mass Effect does feel small with very little planet you could 
 land and have storyline mission and it's a little buggy. However, there is great music soundtracks 
 that suits the appropriate mood at that current time in the game. The RPG element of the game is 
 amazing with the skill system and the equipment that you can have with it's attachment
  Mass Effect is a must-have for RPG fans and one of the best PC of 2008 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PiperGK9999
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 1:56 pm PT
Review:  This game has so many perfectly blended elements to it. Action, adventure, shooter, rpg with unique 
 leveling/equipment outfitting/mods/personality development, and more. 
  
  To really get into this game, you need to take some time in tutorial, build a toss-off character 
 to play with for a few hours to get used to the controls and interaction, then start all over and 
 really create someone you want to play with and develop over many, many hours of fun and immersive 
 gameplay. The way you're able to develop a completely unique character is one of the most interesting 
 parts of this game, and in spite of the fact that your initial "creation" limits you to some of 
 the abilities inherent to that type of character, the character generation at the beginning only 
 scratches the surface of what you can become.
  
  Depending on what you're looking for in a game, you have options on how to complete certain elements. 
 If you want to dive deep into the storyline, there is MUCH to be had in this game. You can spend 
 hours and hours working through different side quests for particular locations while talking to 
 a wide variety of NPC's, building up your character's traits as either a paragon (something of 
 a good, honest, forthright citizen of the galaxy) , or a renegade (speaks for itself) . The great 
 thing about this system is you can switch back and forth in how you choose to deal with NPC's, 
 so you can build up BOTH personality elements at the same time. You also start getting different 
 ways to communicate with others through Intimidation and Charm points that you can build when leveling.
 
  
  When you're going on missions or assignments you get to bring along 2 other team members from within 
 the game, out of about 5 or so different characters. You can personally outfit your teammates, 
 and also have the choice of either auto-leveling them to your current level, or picking out their 
 talents and specialties for yourself. You don't get stuck with teammates at any time, but are able 
 to frequently change around if you don't like the way your mates are helping you through a particular 
 element of the game.
  
  Every once in a while, I start getting a little bogged down with the sheer amount of story that 
 is involved in this game (though I would take that over little or no story any time) . However, 
 the game is so well developed that occasionally you think you're about to go into an area where 
 you need to start talking to people, finding out what's going on and how you can get involved, 
 getting background on the location and any possible threats, etc. etc. Then suddenly, WHAM, out 
 of nowhere you're surrounded by enemies on the ground, in the air, shooting and throwing bombs, 
 and you have to fight and claw your way through it with no chance to save the game and come back 
 later! (So, save OFTEN!) These surprises keep you on your toes, and they're always hidden right 
 around what appears to be a perfectly innocent corner...
  
  Often with long and involved storyline games, I'm tempted to put it on "easy" and just find out 
 what it takes to finish the game, then go back and try a harder level. With this one, I played 
 for a few hours on easy, then switched over to normal and even hard to continue playing with a 
 challenge. I don't WANT to get to the end of this game, I want it to take me away and keep me there 
 for a very long time. This is definitely something you can play all night long, nose inches from 
 the screen, fingers dangling at the ready over the keyboard and dancing in anticipation over the 
 left-click.
  
  Great game, they really have a winner here and I hope Bioware continues making games of this exceptional 
 quality and wealth of content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elanserver
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2008 12:53 am PT
Review:  When this game first came out May 2008, I had very high hopes. I am happy to say that this game 
 has not disappointed me. There are a few aspects in the game which are somewhat annoying such as 
 glitching map, but overall this game delivers. Games like this which allows you to feel the full 
 potential of RPG and Action. The fighting is intense and you're always compelled to look for alternative 
 quest and other items. There is just sooooooooo many things you can do in this game, it's truly 
 REMARKABLE!!! FOREALLS. It's a great combination and you will love it. Dont believe me? Play the 
 game and you be amazed. WARNING!!! SEX SCENE IN THIS GAME (For all the perverts and children who 
 play.... beware..... not) . 
  
  tips for the game: Dont play on easy, this game is way tooo easy to play any easier [iono if that 
 makes sense] . i think hard or normal is just right, but if u choose to challenge yourself, you're 
 welcome to. ENJOY and have FUN. 
  
  Vance 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3571BC
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 3:12 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a game different from most on the current market, simply because its greatest strength 
 is something that so many games overlook - conversation.
  
  If you remove the conversation system, Mass Effect is a reasonable Action-RPG title with some great 
 graphics and a truly cinematic story. However, by adding the conversation system, developers Bioware 
 have made their title stand out from the current generations crowd of titles.
  
  The thing that is so incredible about the conversation system is that it has an incredible effect 
 on how the game will be played with each player. Basically, every time you speak with Shepard, 
 your character, you are able to chose his dialogue. You start with three speech choices, with the 
 ability to add some more as your character levels up. These range from hostile phrases to more 
 diplomatic ones, and you will end up using all the choices given to you by the games finish. This 
 may seem like nothing revolutionary, and it isn't until you replay the game and chose different 
 dialogues. It's then that you realize the impact your words have on the game, and the way you play 
 it.
  
  The game play itself is solid, though not to the standards of something such as Halo 3. The combat 
 system is reasonable, as is the cover system, which is a replication of Gears of War. The leveling 
 up system is very addictive, and I personally found it more enjoyable if you leave the leveling 
 of your squad up to the computer, as you can focus more on your own character rather than your 
 team mates. However, if having total control is your thing there is an option to turn this off 
 and have your squad in your own hands. Overall, Mass Effect's game play is solid, with reasonable 
 combat and cover systems backed up by an addicting leveling up dynamic.
  
  Mass Effect's story, along with its great graphics and fresh conversation system, is what sets 
 it apart from the crowd. You play as Commander Shepard. At the beginning of the game you can choose 
 whether to play as the custom character, John Shepard, or create your own, choosing from a broad 
 range of facial and body types to create your own customized character. You then go on to choose 
 your background. You can choose from a range of selections, all of them changing the way people 
 react to you in the game. Last but not least you choose your character's class type, from six choices 
 - Soldier, Engineer, Adept, Infiltrator, Sentinel and Vanguard. The Soldier is a weapons expert, 
 the Engineers are tech experts and Adepts use biotics for things such as mind control. Infiltrator, 
 Sentinel and Vanguard are combinations of the first three, with Infiltrators being a combination 
 of soldiers and engineers, Sentinels are a combination of Engineers and Adept and Vanguard is a 
 Soldier-Adept combination. Once you have chosen your class you start the game. You begin on the 
 SSV Normandy, where you discover that the human colony Eden Prime is under attack. You and your 
 small squad go along with a Spectre, which is a high-ranking inter-galactic peace agency, named 
 Nihlus, who is on the Normandy to evaluate Shepard and see if he is fit to become a Spectre. Your 
 squad and Nihlus split up on Eden Prime. Nihlus then comes across another Spectre, Saren, who kills 
 Nihlus and escapes Eden Prime. From then on you embark on a inter-galactic battle against Saren, 
 desperately trying to stop him from destroying the entire universe. The story is very well written, 
 and there are times when it's almost tear-wrenching, which is rare in games. By having such a great 
 story Bioware has elevated its game onto a platform that many others try to achieve, but often 
 fail.
  
  The graphics within Mass Effect are, simply put, incredible. There are some instances of lag and 
 level repetition, but none of that matters when you come across an open space and are literally 
 wowed by some of the most incredible graphics this side of Assassins Creed. Combined with a solid 
 soundtrack which fits the game perfectly, as well as the other features I have mentioned, Mass 
 Effect places itself as one of the top PC games of 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThresholdRPG
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect from Bioware is a sci-fi action RPG released for the XBOX 360 on Nov 20, 2007 and later 
 released for the PC on May 28, 2008. It is yet another top notch RPG offering from Bioware, continuing 
 the tradition of Baldur's Gate, Planescape: Torment, and Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic. 
 
  
  ------------------------------------
  THE STORY:
  
  While the graphics, combat, and character classes are all excellent, the story is really what sets 
 this game apart from other action RPGs. It is at least summer blockbuster caliber in scope and 
 intrigue, and it will keep you engaged to the very end. The rumor is that Mass Effect is part 1 
 in a 3 game trilogy, and I cannot wait to learn more about the story and the game universe.
  
  Despite the fact that there may be additional games in this universe, Mass Effect does not 
 end with a cliffhanger. That is something I really like as I am not a fan of buying a game (or 
 movie, or book) just to finish it and feel like I didn't get a full story.
  
  You also really come to care about the characters. I am genuinely worried about which characters 
 will make it to Mass Effect 2 (and 3) and what might happen to them between games.
  
  ------------------------------------
  
  Please read my full review here:
  
  http://www. brighthub. com/video-games/pc/reviews/5506. aspx
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a daring, innovative game in a few important ways. It has a creative role-playing 
 system, a brand new setting, a lot of well-written dialog, and a beautiful presentation, and that 
 is why it is at least tolerable. However, combat in Mass Effect is awful. It is so poorly designed 
 and so riddled by poor AI that it almost single-handedly spoils what is otherwise a memorable experience. 
 It is still a quality RPG, because it still has a lot of redeeming qualities, but it has some major 
 problems, and it often isn't fun. This game is one of the harder ones that I have ever had to review 
  it invokes such mixed feelings.
  
  I have frequently seen Mass Effect described as "Kotor with Biotics instead of the Force". This 
 description is wrong in a lot of ways. The game has some of the obvious stamps Bioware's work, 
 but it is a significantly different game. The first major difference is that the Mass Effect universe 
 is almost nothing like Star Wars. The only thing that Mass Effect and Star Wars have in common 
 is that people use energy weapons that make a "pew pew" sound. When it comes to aesthetics and 
 atmosphere, they are completely different. Mass Effect contains a lot more science in its science 
 fiction  so much that if you wish, you can visit the Horsehead Nebula and find out what kind of 
 mineral deposits are on the planets orbiting obscure stars there. Visually, Mass Effect is much 
 cleaner looking - almost eerily antiseptic - whereas Star Wars shows a dirty "lived-in" future, 
 as George Lucas describes it. More significantly though, the Mass Effect universe is much heavier 
 in cynical politics and darker in tone than Star Wars. In this regard, the storytelling in Mass 
 Effect is more like what you would see from Joss Whedon than George Lucas. Mass Effect's aliens 
 are almost all essentially humanoids wearing masks, which makes it more like Star Trek than Star 
 Wars.
  
  The fiction in Mass Effect is ultimately a major asset to the game. It appears on the surface to 
 be unimaginative and derivative, but as you delve into it, you find all kinds of intrigue, background, 
 and detail. There are about four or five critical races, and none of them trust each other or get 
 along very well, making the universe a lot like the Balkans. Ancient atrocities linger in the present 
 as bitter resentments. Politicians are frustratingly stubborn and bureaucratic, concerned more 
 with image than about averting an intergalactic crisis. Corporations exploit lax intergalactic 
 law enforcement to push ethical boundaries. Mass Effect is an adult-oriented game, not because 
 of language or it's much publicized (and almost nonexistent) sexual content, but because of its 
 mature themes and writing. It's a shame that Bioware did not craft a main storyline that matches 
 the quality of the background. The central plot in the game is a stupefyingly mundane story about 
 saving the universe from an ancient foe.
  
  The role-playing system in Mass Effect is brand new, and it is another asset for the game. At a 
 time when role playing games are becoming progressively neutered and simplistic, this game sticks 
 with and old-school approach where you assign skill points to meaningful abilities when you gain 
 levels. The skills allow you to improve defense, skill with guns, biotics (i. e. magic) , hacking, 
 buffs, and persuasion. The system is well balanced for something that is brand new, although hacking 
 is a bit underpowered.
  
  As you might expect from a Bioware RPG, Mass Effect is loaded with dialog. Much of it is the typical 
 information gathering and questing that comes in any RPG  i. e. "tell me about your past" or "OK, 
 I'll do this job". Refreshingly though, Mass Effect has many meaningful choices in the dialog, 
 and those choices have obvious consequences later on. At least a couple of your companions can 
 live or die, based upon choices that you make. Some of your choices will show up in news reports 
 that you hear in the game's omnipresent elevators, while others show in dialog later in the game. 
 The role-playing system has Charm and Intimidate skills, and both of them come in handy over and 
 over again. If you have a high enough verbal skill at the end of the game, it is actually possible 
 to avoid major combat with a boss. I can't recall a role-playing game off the top of my head that 
 used persuasion skills in this manner.
  
  Another of the game's greatest assets is its beautiful presentation. When it comes to character 
 models, faces, and animations, it is the most stunning game ever made. Much has been said about 
 how incredible conversations look in Mass Effect, and all of that praise is appropriate. The skins 
 are incredibly detailed and armor is perfectly modeled so that it has depth and texture. The environments 
 sport the same level of fidelity, although they are frequently bare, boring, and repetitive (copy-and-paste 
 is one of Mass Effect's flaws) .
  
  The audio is even better than the visuals. The voiceovers are solid all around, headlined by recognizable 
 actors like Keith David and Lance Henriksen. The most pleasant surprise in the game is the soundtrack. 
 Rather than playing it safe and inserting a generic Jeremy Soule soundtrack into the game, Bioware 
 chose a totally unique, synthesized score. It is low-key, but hauntingly beautiful at times. The 
 music that plays at The Citadel (the game's first big area) is reminiscent of the music that plays 
 at the opening of Blade Runner. The music that plays while you are looking at the galactic map 
 matches the picture so perfectly that you might expect Carl Sagan to pop up next to you and wax 
 poetic about the majesty of the universe.
  
  The universe, the writing, choices, the lifelike characters, the music -- they ultimately allow 
 the game to overcome its problems. Specifically, Mass Effect has one major problem. Combat. It 
 is downright awful. Combat-wise, Mass Effect can best be described as "Rainbow Six Vegas with magical 
 powers". When fighting begins, the game essentially becomes a squad-based third person tactical 
 shooter. As such, it fails miserably.
  
  In order to discuss why this game's combat is so bad, it helps to talk about what makes the combat 
 in other squad-based games so good. In competent games like Freedom Fighters and Rainbow Six: Vegas, 
 squad mates are an asset. They have solid AI that can use cover. They can stay alive by shooting 
 nearby targets that represent the greatest risk. They can find a path around obstacles to the opposite 
 side of the room without getting lost after twenty feet. Controls are competent and cover is easy 
 to use. In addition, levels are designed so that you can slowly progress through them, advancing 
 carefully and tactically. Enemies are also smart and can use cover, and your weapons are dangerous 
 enough to keep them pinned to a spot, if necessary.
  
  Mass Effect has none of these qualities. The combat in this game is a stunning example of poor 
 design. First and foremost in this disaster is your squad mates' nonexistent AI. Your squad mates 
 are astonishingly retarded and unable to perform some of the most basic and critical functions 
 in the game. They are horrible at using cover. Sometimes, when you position them behind cover, 
 they will stand out from it and get cut down. Other times, they will fruitlessly attempt to fire 
 through the cover, as if it weren't there. Once, I stood and watched a hilarious fifteen second 
 battle where an enemy and one of my mates stood on opposite sides of a box and continuously fired 
 at each other -- straight into the box. Furthermore, your companions' pathfinding is abysmal. They 
 frequently refuse orders to move to an easily accessible spot or fire on an enemy that they can't 
 immediately see. They also do dimwitted things like cling to cover doing nothing while somebody 
 runs in and shoots them in the face. This is the kind of atrocious AI that I would expect from 
 a Valusoft game, not from a major developer like Bioware. Fortunately, the enemies are just as 
 dumb, but they often make up for it with sheer numbers and brute force.
  
  The problems with combat don't end with the AI, however. The controls are lacking a "cover" button, 
 and the game is inconsistent when it comes to figuring out when you want to snap to cover. Kane 
 and Lynch got skewered by reviewers for this flaw, even though its cover mechanic worked better 
 than what is in this game. Why doesn't Mass Effect get reamed for this? The game is full of tank-like 
 enemies that fire rockets, which will kill you with one or two hits until late in the game. These 
 enemies will constantly exploit your weak weapons and fragile health by bum rushing your cover 
 while they spam you with rockets. Suicidal enemies constantly swarm you and shoot you at point 
 blank range, and you are pretty much helpless to stop this early in the game. It completely breaks 
 the cover mechanics (your squad mates' stupidity doesn't help here) . The game also loves to throw 
 you into the middle of a big battle right out of a cut scene, catching you out in the open without 
 any cover.
  
  Thanks to all of these problems, the first third or half of Mass Effect is a supremely irritating 
 experience. Mass Effect is not advertised as an action-RPG, and thus it is story-driven and very 
 dialog-heavy. However, combat still comprises a third to a half of the game. Over and over, you 
 will find yourself dying, because of dumb companions and/or the game Zerg-rushing you as you try 
 to use cover. You do have a bunch of special powers that act as buffs or special attacks (biotics) , 
 but early in the game, they are too weak and they regenerate too slowly to have a major effect. 
 As the game progresses and you gain levels, combat starts to get much easier, and more enjoyable. 
 The core design problems never go away, but at least you can overcome them with brute force.
  
  Combat is bad, and the game's dozens of side missions aren't much to write home about either. 
 As I mentioned earlier, copy-and-paste design is one of Mass Effect's greatest flaws. The four 
 or five major story areas are the only interesting areas in the game. The rest are short, repetitive, 
 and shallow. The side missions often have interesting premises, but in completing them, you will 
 see the same three or four building layouts numerous times. You can skip the side missions, but 
 you will need to do at least some grinding so that you can become powerful enough to survive the 
 game's horrendous combat. Otherwise, you can probably complete the short storyline in about 10 
 hours. It's easily the shortest main quest in any Bioware RPG to date. Even the story-related areas 
 aren't that interesting. Most maps are small, dull and constricted  a problem with all Bioware 
 RPG's since Neverwinter Nights (what ever happened to the days when Bioware could design a remotely 
 interesting dungeon?) .
  
  Mass Effect also has all sorts of console legacy issues with its interface. It has supposedly been 
 reworked for the PC, but it still has a few problems. The command system is very efficient and 
 mouse-driven, but the inventory system is mind-bogglingly bad. Just like the lousy inventory system 
 in most console ports, there is no paper doll, drag-and-drop inventory. Instead, the game uses 
 a convoluted system of layered menus that makes simple inventory rearrangement a chore. It isn't 
 a huge detriment to the game though, since it is not as loot-driven as a game like Diablo or Elder 
 Scrolls.
  
  Mass Effect has a unique universe and role-playing system, but it is riddled with some major design 
 problems. When I read other reviews for this game, I'm puzzled by how few reviewers mention the 
 inexcusable lack of polish and the poor design in the combat. Jade Empire also had a couple of 
 significant gameplay problems, which makes me wonder about the direction in which Dragon Age is 
 headed. I didn't feel compelled to finish Mass Effect, and I almost quit it a few times, but I 
 did ultimately finish it, and that counts for something. It certainly has a lot of good qualities, 
 and the problems are fixable if there is a sequel. The lack of single player RPGs on the PC makes 
 the game at least worth playing if you are starved for a good one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpkgs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 9:38 pm PT
Review:  All in all a great game that can get overshadowed by the shortcomings of the inventory system and 
 advancement at times. 
  
  The inventory system lacks pertinent information and filtering. There's no way to determine item 
 rank (importance/cost) except by manual inspection of every item. Without knowing the approximate 
 value, selling/buying is burdensome and tiring. The addition of a filtering/sorting mechanism based 
 on value would have gone a long way to improving the game.
  
  As far as advancement, as you level-up, you never truly get the feeling that you've reached an 
 important milestone. The specialty trees are relatively flat so so never feel a particular specialty 
 is all that special.
  
  Besides these issues and a couple of other quirks such as the really long elevator rides, and the 
 cut long scenes that you must re-endure after getting killed, the game is top notch. The voice 
 acting, visuals and background music keep you playing 'til all hours of the night. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcheu
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 8:01 pm PT
Review:  There's lots to do here, with lots of quests. 
  
  The early Citadel missions are more traditional RPG quests, where you talk to people, track down 
 people or widgets or information, and collect your reward. There's a fair bit of variety there.
 
  
  The trouble is that beyond the initial Citadel missions, almost every quest is: Go to star system 
 X. Drive around in armed space RV. Find Secret base. Kill body there and/or grab widget. Return 
 to ship. 
  
  The story is ok. It's your typical space opera stuff. Nobody will mistake it for classical literature, 
 but it's more than adequate for a game. I like that they've left enough loose threads for sequels, 
 but give the gamer a real ending to the game. Unlike some other games that leave you feeling totally 
 ripped off at the end with a cliff hanger "ending."
  
  Other than the repetitive off-station missions, I only really have two problems with this otherwise 
 great game.
  
  The first is that there's an insane number of elevators. I understand this was in the console version 
 too, and I get why they're present. However, they could have shortened the elevator rides a bit, 
 as load times on a PC are usually far shorter than on a console. I'm not the only one to point 
 this out.
  
  The second is the asinine inventory system. There's no organization or stacking of items. It's 
 just randomly thrown in there. Trying to find one particular item is a slow, methodical affair 
 of digging through the pile. Even more frustrating is that you have do this on a regular basis, 
 because there's an item limit, and you have to cull the older toys to make room for newer ones. 
 A category system would have made it all a lot easier. As it is, it's a lot like sorting through 
 your emails in the morning -- without a spam filter.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: astrith81
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 27, 2008 3:29 am PT
Review:  The game, after some time, gets terribly boring. Maybe I went into much side quests, the main plot 
 is quite interesting. Nevertheless side quests are a part of a game as well, and in Mass Effect 
 they are simply bad!
  Moreover there is no space combat, that could bring more taste to the game...
  In my opinion 
 the game is just overrated. I know why a lot of people play it, it's quite a good fun, but only 
 for like 20-22 hours. As an RPG I didn't like it at all. Comparing Mass Effect to KOTOR, Witcher 
 or even Betrayal at Krondor (if anyone remembers it) it's simply boring! We had few good space 
 RPGs but I wouldn't treat ME as one. 
  The game has potential, quite an interesting world, especially politics is very interesting. But 
 taking into consideration the game as a whole it's not so good after all.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: long_fellow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  The role-playing wing of the video game world has been around for quite some time now, maybe because 
 there's just something so appealing about taking on the guise of a stronger, more charismatic character, 
 and being able to experience a world completely different from ours through their eyes. This old 
 formula of games brought about countless hours of our time spent as a sword-toting do-gooder. It 
 worked successfully as a genre of its own, one with more focus on story and immersion than any 
 other.
  
  However, our generation of gaming has evolved, and BioWare's "Mass Effect" would not let the Role-Playing 
 genre get left behind. While still keeping true to the core philosophies of RPG's, Mass Effect 
 adds layer upon layer of new features to redefine the genre for the next generation, making the 
 game deep, satisfying, and the new standard for story-telling in games.
  
  Mass Effect is a single-player game set in a fictitious number of centuries from now  a time when 
 humans are just a small part of an intergalactic plethora of species, planets, and politics. You 
 play as Commander Shepard, a person with no past, no face, and no future. Shepard has none of those. 
 You, the player, have to give them to him/her. 
  
  The game starts as you access a database in an attempt to get background information about the 
 commander. The information, however, cannot be found, so you must create Shepard. As early as this 
 point, Mass Effect begins to establish its ground as a great RPG because the character creation 
 process, one of the key elements in a role-playing game, is mind-blowing. You get to customize 
 your character's past, giving you options for his or her personal background, class specialization, 
 and personality  all of which will affect your story and how the game unfolds. You get to customize 
 you character's face, to the point of being able to come so freakishly close to your own face. 
 It's an extremely deep creation process that greets the player with a taste of Mass Effect's immersive 
 story right off the bat.
  
  Once you've created your character, you start in the SS Normandy, a vessel capable of travelling 
 through the vastness of space. Following an awesome opening musical theme, you walk along the corridors 
 of the ship learning the basic controls, and you begin to realize that you are treading in the 
 fruits of a highly capable graphics engine. You get a sci-fi chill down your spine as you begin 
 exploring. Running on a mid-range video card, the game shoots to stun  everything is as beautiful 
 as it could get without running your pockets dry. The atmospheric audio does a decent job at complimenting 
 the visuals. At this point, you are completely immersed in what seems to be an all-too-realistic 
 depiction of the universe a couple thousand years from now.
  
  A few minutes further into the game, you get to try out the combat, which, on the PC version of 
 the game, is fairly simple. It's a real-time, third-person, squad-based, RPG shooter with some 
 tactical aspects. That might seem like a huge mountain to climb, but Mass Effect conquers it with 
 style and subtlety. The shooter aspect of the game may be likened to a toned-down Gears of War. 
 It is basically running around, aligning aliens to your crosshair, and pulling the trigger  but 
 is not without a twist. It sports a basic HUD that serves its purpose by being minimalistic on 
 its own, but holding spacebar opens up a more complex HUD with spells, abilities, tactical options, 
 and assignable shortcuts. The dynamism of both HUD's leaves the decision to the player to play 
 either a fast-paced, run-and-gun shooter or a slower, tactical application of spells, guns, and 
 team work.
  
  Mass Effect's RPG gameplay aspect takes features from the typical RPG and bathes them in the space 
 theme that the game so ardently screams. There is a huge number of guns and armour to collect and 
 customize. There is also a skill-based levelling system, where levelling up gives you points to 
 assign to skills of your choice and, as dictated by RPG convention, you unlock new skills as you 
 progress. 
  
  Quite to some RPG fans' dismay, though, might be the fact that your knick-knacks are predominantly 
 obtained from chests, not enemies. Unlocking these chests, though, has you playing a quick game 
 of Frogger, which is mildly entertaining, but not as dynamic. One playthrough won't get you a satisfying 
 number of equipment to choose from, which is a pity in my eyes, but a challenge to hardcore RPG 
 fans. Another issue that might raise a few eyebrows is the fact that there are no stats, only skills. 
 The two are conventionally separate and interdependent in RPG's, but in this case, one exists alone.
 
  
  As the story unfolds, the tension starts to feel more palpable. You will find yourself hunting 
 down a rogue member of an elite force, who, you begin to find out, has bigger plans. As the protagonist, 
 it is your responsibility to stop him and save the universe. This skeletal form of the plot is 
 extremely clich, but the playing the game will flesh everything out and convince you otherwise. 
 Since the game gives the player the ability to choose what Shepard says in conversations, there 
 are several ways to run through the story. Which path to take? Which friends to make? As the player, 
 you will find yourself contemplating decisions like these. Every single conversation that the character 
 makes has the player participating fully. This aspect of the game is its defining factor. The decision-making 
 abilities that you are given are truly what set the game apart because playing a role in a role-playing 
 game finally means something more than moving around and killing stuff. Mass Effect comes into 
 its own here. 
  
  Another commendable aspect of Mass Effect is its voice acting and character design. The two go 
 hand-in-hand so inexplicably well. The characters are deep and real, each with their own personalities 
 that are accentuated by the voice-acting and facial expressions. The interplay of all these factors 
 helps players to actually feel with and for the characters, which in turn makes the game so much 
 more immersive.
  
  Further still into the game, you will start to feel the aforementioned features in an increasing 
 fashion. You will get to explore planets and galaxies, each different from the last. The graphics, 
 you will notice, show more and more of their capabilities in large, scenic views of the diverse 
 environments of foreign lands. The combat becomes increasingly intense, pitting you and your growing 
 team against different enemies and situations.
  
  Along with these progressions, however, are things that lamentably stay the same. The gameplay 
 will get boring once you've played through it enough, and the extra features that try to diversify 
 the shooter are no different. Running through scores of enemies as a wave of three can't be fun 
 for too long. The gameplay is sadly what takes away from what is otherwise infinite longevity. 
 The audio as well remains nothing more than ordinary, with the exception of the opening theme. 
 Every other piece of background music complements the game in some way, but takes a backseat in 
 the whole picture.
  
  Upon finishing the game, which will took me about 12 hours on my first run, the player is introduced 
 to possibilities for increased replay value. You can replay the game in another difficulty, play 
 it again but with a different personality, or just hunt down more items and equipment for your 
 hoarding pleasure. Though there is no multiplayer, there are single-player achievements that might 
 appeal to a few a-whores, as well as downloadable content. I personally saw little replay value 
 in this, other kinds of gamers might see it differently. 
  
  To sum up this lengthy wall of text, Mass Effect is a great game, a must-have for RPG fans. Though 
 it may not be perfect, it certainly did an outstanding job in revitalizing the genre for this generation. 
 Its gameplay is good both as an RPG and a shooter. The graphics aren't the best out there, but 
 they do their job well. The game's music is not what it will be remembered for, but its voice acting 
 is awesome. Mass Effect may well be a benchmark in the industry because of its avant-garde role-playing 
 aspects, and with a revolutionary first instalment and a little bit of room for improvement, there's 
 plenty of reason to look forward to Mass Effect II. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: asestar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 7:12 am PT
Review:  I was amazed by this game. The story is trully one of best ive seen in any video game. If this 
 doesnt win game of year award, i dunno what will.
  
  Graphics are top notch. Everything from character creation to facial movements are done exceptionally. 
 There are even online threads around posting how to make your avatar look like a celebrity!
  
  Gameplay again, is superb. Story is immersive, twisting and greatly satisfying. Combat is done 
 nicely although vehicle dynamics could be a bit improved. Its still massive fun.
  
  Music is one of best ive heard in years. Really memorable and chilling. Voice acting is top-class. 
 
  
  My main issue with the game are the numerous technical bugs. Mainly related to sound effects on 
 surround speakers. My onboard Realtec HD ALC888 card kept missing audio with poping and missing 
 sounds. No matter what the setting. In the end, i had to put in Audigy2 card i had lying around 
 to get proper sound and it still makes a few odd glitches here and there.
  
  Overall, its one of my favorite games of the year.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aapierides
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 11:59 pm PT
Review:  A nice world that grips and engages the player! Just wish it had a few more NPCs roaming around 
 to look more lively!
  There is nothing bad that I can say about this game! The graphics are not the best but they do 
 the job nicely, after all if you like these kind of games you love them first for their content 
 and this is one of these games!!
  The story goes quite deep and the level of detail is quite high. teh characters tend to grown on 
 you, but not all of them!
  Even the majority of the side quest feel like there are a part of the world and not some job that 
 is there to earn you a few more XP points.
  The fighting system could have been much more better but you get used to it as you go along and 
 it stops bothering you.
  Finally another thing that i did find weird is the lack of NPCs in some areas. A few more and a 
 little bit more activity would make some space stations come really alive and would have given 
 a totaly different feel to the game.
  My advice; if you liked KOTOR play it. If you are an RPG fan generally you will like it. If you 
 are into space stories you will love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katana18
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 6:10 am PT
Review:  First off, the graphics, sound, and gameplay of this game are generally flawless. Shooting reminds 
 you of Gears of War. The graphics on a reasonably powerful PC will be gorgeous. I played this on 
 a Core Duo & 8800GTS. The soundtracks are very well suited to the situations. There's really nothing 
 to complain about here. I just completed my first thorough playthrough in almost 27 hours.
  
  When it comes to the story, I must give the writers due credit. Coming up with the whole "Mass 
 Effect" concept and space lore must have taken quite some effort. The details and explanation of 
 just about everything in the game are well written, but not without a few typos. This really helps 
 you get comfortable with the rest of the galaxy and delivers the space travelling environment that 
 will get you in the mood to complete this game.
  
  However, Mass Effect is not without its flaws. Most noticeably, it was published under EA and has 
 some of the most invasive copy protection ever. While most of the absurd measures have been lifted, 
 there is still the problem of not being able to install the game more than 3 times, without calling 
 technical support. I will not debate the logic of such protective measures, but it does count as 
 a huge flaw considering games like Half Life 2 and such are able to employ more efficient, but 
 much less annoying copy protection measures.
  
  The game itself is not perfect, however. It may be well scripted and throw you into another world, 
 but this immersion is soon broken once you encounter the few, but highly frustrating bugs. One 
 particular example is weapon overheating permanently. This issue can be found in the Bioware forums, 
 but no official reply has been given. I did encounter this bug several times myself. Although it 
 was not serious, and there are workarounds, I do note that this lack of polish does not befit the 
 reputation of Bioware.
  
  Another thing to point out is the well-known sex scenes. Let me be as clear as possible on this: 
 either do it right, or don't do it at all. Preferably, I would say don't bother doing it at all. 
 The "M" rating on the box cover was earned for sex scenes as they so proudly announce. The only 
 things you'll see in the game are thigh flesh and alien kissing. This doesn't really affect the 
 score of the game, but I want to point out that Bioware should have just cut that part out, and 
 let the rating slide back to PG-13, which will make it friendlier and sell more copies.
  
  One final thing to point out is that the achievements and character creation are the parts of the 
 game I enjoyed the most. By breaking D&D tradition, character creation and level advancement have 
 become refreshing and plays a more active role in the game. The achievements are also a nice way 
 of letting you know how much of the game you've covered, and really give you a sense of accomplishment. 
 The exception to this is the Hardcore and Insanity difficulties. Granted, some players will enjoy 
 putting themselves against overpowered enemies and enjoy the same mindless slaughter.
  
  I, for one, do not see the point of increasing enemy shields and immunity to your powers. It's 
 about time that every game out there learn from Crysis and start making those higher difficulties 
 mean something other than shooting everything a couple more times to kill it. Not wanting to spoil 
 anything, but the final battle is really harder than it has to be. Many parts, but most noticeably 
 the final 10 minutes of Mass Effect, suffers from cinematic problem Assassin's Creed had.
  
  Remember how ridiculously hard the final hour of the game became in Assassin's Creed? Developers 
 have to stop equating ridiculously tough odds with adrenaline building. Getting frustrated near 
 the end of the game does not add to enjoyment at all. Thankfully, only the final battle of Mass 
 Effect suffers from this. However, for some obscure reason, a vast majority of the cutscenes in 
 Mass Effect cannot be skipped. They're all great the first couple of times, but how many times 
 do we really need to watch our ship land and take off? A waste of loading time. A waste of resources.
 
  
  Thus, Mass Effect is a good game. As the classification points out:"Almost, but not quite". There 
 really is nothing quite like it out there, and Mass Effect will definitely go down as one of the 
 most memorable RPGs ever. However, serious polishing and user friendliness issues (bug fixes & 
 less invasive copy protection) need to be addressed for further sequels if the developers hope 
 to get the support of us frustrated Mass Effect players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ARRAEEee
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 4:49 am PT
Review:  Coming from people who made Jade Empire and Knights Of the old republic you, d expect your action 
 to have consequences but you might be surprised just how far they'll go. With a mass of alien races 
 to negotiate with chat to or murder what you do won't just make them like you less or more it'll 
 effect their whole perception of humanity. 
  Upset someone enough and you might just cause an intergalactic war. Which isn't good. 
  Unlike 
 Jade and Knights you'll also be able to tread a finer diplomatic line than being simply good or 
 evil, whit a conversational option maker that'll let you steer the emotional content of your chat 
 in six different directions. Be positive and you'll say nice bland things keep being negative and 
 you might pull a gun.
  Speaking of which combat's a depature from all bioware's previous games an interesting blend of 
 real time action and RPG points. Basically you have to aim weapons at enemies yourself but once 
 you've pulled the trigger a whole host of factors from your own skill and upgrades to how long 
 you've had your weapon determine whether you'll hit your target or not. Squadmates will move and 
 fire independently though you can take over from any of them at any time you like. Bioware are 
 being maddeningly vague about the release data at the moment they say Christmas but not whether 
 they mean this year or next year but this is definitely one for your videogaming diary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandyqbg
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  What do you get when you marry the basic elements of an RPG with the compelling combat of a third 
 person shooter and support it with a storyline that's worth a novel and cool graphics? Mass Effect, 
 of course. Bioware has done a commendable job with this game.
  
  Slip into the role of Commander Shepard, representing the human race on the action front in the 
 far future. Go on a wild expedition across the galaxy trying to track down a Spectre gone rogue 
 and ultimately save the galaxy from imminent doom. Sounds cliched? There's more to it than the 
 last few lines sum up.
  
  Begin a new game by selecting your reputation, psychological profile and your character's gender 
 and facial appearance. The facial appearance offers a number of customization options. Finish it 
 by choosing from one of the six character classes. However you will find that the character customization 
 is not as deep as expected from an RPG.
  
  The RPG elements of the game are pretty limited. Character development, especially, is pretty rudimentary 
 akin to hack-n-slash games. There are a number of ways you can gain xp, apart from fighting enemies 
 and completing missions. Exploring new environments, making conversations, learning new information 
 are some of the other ways to earn xp. Level up the traditional RPG way and distribute your 'talent 
 points' among the several character attributes.
  
  There is the usual trade and inventory management seen in almost all RPGs. These aspects are not 
 very deep and provide no incentive for the player to engage in these for any longer than absolutely 
 necessary. Inventory management may even become tedious as it distracts the player in the middle 
 of an exciting combat sequence.
  
  The game makes for these minor snags and lacking RPG elements with great character interaction. 
 The game has taken character interactions to a whole new level, and your response at each conversation 
 influences the story and your character's reputation to a good extent. You will find yourself in 
 a conversation a lot of time. Unlike many other games these conversations are actually interesting 
 thanks to great voice acting and neat script.
  
  There is a Paragon-Renegade meter, which works much like a Good-Evil meter and influences the game 
 is played. It is affected by character decisions, usually made during conversations.
  
  The combat is solid. You will get into a number of firefights throughout the game and they play 
 out more realistic than a lot of other games, even shooters. Take cover and fire potshots at the 
 enemy or engage them in open ground. It's your call. The enemy will try to use cover and flank 
 you. But the AI needs to be worked on a little. On several you will find the enemy rushing at you 
 instead of using cover and flank tactics.
  
  This is where the squad based combat comes in. On all your missions you will command a squad of 
 two. You can issue basic commands like Move, Attack or Take Cover. Your squad will provide the 
 additional firepower you need to take your enemies.
  
  Speaking about missions, there are primary and a number of secondary ones, which serve the purpose 
 of helping you level up for the finale and gives you more playtime. Each primary mission is unique 
 in its own way. However you can a find a that the secondary missions are a tad too repetitive.
 
  
  The other hitch in gameplay is your vehicle - The Mako. Maneuvering the Mako is tedious and sometimes 
 even downright irritating.
  
  The graphics are pretty cool. The HUD has little clutter and the art, even though a little spartan, 
 is well done. Some of the vistas on the planets are sights to behold, but they are few and far 
 between.
  
  Sounds are apt and the voice acting deserves a round of applause. The soundtrack may seem subdued 
 at first but when it comes to the action sequences, it blazes.
  
  The storyline is where the games packs a punch. It's a story of epic proportions, something that 
 seems to have been ripped out of a great novel. It's got its share of suspense and twists, that 
 add so much value to the game. Bioware has painted an entire universe with several races, each 
 having a reasonably extensive background story. It's quite fun learning about these races though 
 it does not make a difference in the main storyline.
  
  VERDICT:
  
  A game truly like no other - one that should be played even if it is for the storyline alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Lich-King
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2008 4:00 am PT
Review:  Graphics: 10
  Sounds: 9
  Gameplay: 8
  Multiplayer: -
  Storyline: 10
  Impression: 9
  
  Score: 9 (9.2 real)
  
  If you know anything about RPG's, then you have heard the name Bioware 
 at least once. It may have been associated with Kotor or Jade Empire (which are both amazing RPG 
 titles) , or you may have just heard it in passign mention. Needless to say, with those two games 
 under its belt, a lot was expected of Mass Effect. I can say (rather gleefully) that it delivered, 
 though with some noticeable faults. There are several sections to this game to be reviewed, and 
 each one with its own pros and cons.
  
  I'll start with the story. First off, this game is fully voice acted. You will never be required 
 to read wall after wall of text to take in the full story. That alone should instantly sell you 
 on this game. However, if it doesnt, then I should tell that this game is WELL voice acted. Meaning 
 you wont get any "jill sandwich" worthy lines in this title (and if you dont get that reference, 
 then go buy the original resident evil and play it) . The story also has several twists and turns 
 which keeps it pretty interesting. Even better, you can effect the story with your "paragon" or 
 "renegade" choices. Each one is worth experiencing, which adds replay to the game, but we'll get 
 to that later. All you need to know, is that the story in Mass Effect is good enough that you may 
 play it again just to experience the twists and turns all over again.
  
  The gameplay in Mass Effect is pretty damn good, but it isnt without faults. The combat in the 
 game plays like a first person shooter... with powers. You have a varied selection of guns at your 
 disposal, based on your class choice. The classes in this game are well-balanced. Each one plays 
 differently, and will require you to alter your strategy. If you play an Adept like a Soldier, 
 you will die a lot. So you can choose different classes based on your preference, and thats a nice 
 touch. There is also some great customizable options in the game. You have several fields (and 
 when I say several I dont just mean three or four, I mean like 7) which you can improve that will 
 make that field stronger. They range from Pistol skill to specific Biotic powers, to specialized 
 class advancement. How you spec your character will have a direct effect on how effective your 
 character is in combat, so make wise choices. Your team mates will also be able to grow, and you 
 can either set them to "auto-level up" or manual, based on if you want to fuss with them or not.
 
  However, like I said the game isnt without faults. In the 360 version of the game, the cover system 
 doesnt always work as well as you might think, and you will be left running blindlly into cover, 
 only to find that you wont grapple with it quickly. Furthermore, the sprint function is easy to 
 screw up, since you run so fast and uncontrollably, that you will probably overshoot the cover, 
 or enemy, that you were trying to approach. The vehicle you use to traverse planets can also be 
 a little unruly as well. The squad commands on the 360 version are also not great, since you can 
 only give general blanket commands to your team, leaving little room for tactical placement. Notice 
 that the afforementioned faults are with the 360 version, as the PC version fixes most of these. 
 On a final note, the hacking game on the PC is a little better in my opinion.
  
  The graphics on this game are pretty damn good, considering the scope of the world you are playing 
 in. There are numerous planets, lots of missions, tons of characters and the graphics dont suffer 
 because of it. I am honestly surprised that this game could fit on one 360 disk. The game will 
 suffer some graphical slowdowns and framerate issues during larger firefights and, for some reason, 
 elevator rides. However, the game still looks great, and the great look will help to immerse you 
 even further.
  
  Mass Effect is just a great RPG. It has a heartfelt and touching story, with many twists and turns, 
 as well as heart-pounding combat, some challenging (and at times, aggravating) boss battles, and 
 LOADS of replayability. If you dont play this game again just for the story, you may well do it 
 for the achievements, to try a new class, or be a paragon or renegade, depending on which way you 
 went in your first play through. All in all, its hard to find a better deal, especially since nowadays, 
 you can find a used copy for 30 bucks or less.
  
  The Good:
  -the story
  -very twisted
  -there are improvements compared to the one on Xbox 360
  
  The Bad:
  -some 
 graphical hitches
  -intermittent load screens 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garythemessage
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  I love the voice acting. It's top notch. Truly. Thanks to the voice actors, you really made this 
 game enjoyable.
  
  I love the graphics. My rig is not at the very tip-top of gaming rigs, so it's nice to be able 
 to run this at 1680x1050 with everything maxed with my old dual GeForce 7950GT's. There were a 
 lot of times I just sat back and looked at the scenes. Some really cool stuff.
  
  I love the cutscenes. In the past I have totally bashed cutscenes. I normally hate unskippable 
 cutscenes, but in this case I wouldn't have skipped them if I had the option. This goes back to 
 the actors.
  
  I loved the "outside" portions where you get to drive the 6-wheeled vehicle. It was a blast. Exploring 
 the planets was cool.
  
  Mass Effect incorporates a lot of different things and does it very well.
  
  Now for the bad 
 stuff. I hate, really hate, truly hate having to activiate my game - and only being able to do 
 so a limited number of times. I have not bought another games (requiring activation) since and 
 doubt that I ever will again. I do not like the way protection is going, neither in games nor in 
 music. I am in my 30's. I've pulled the in-line skates back out of the closet, put new tires on 
 the mountain bike, bought a new set of hiking shoes. I'm gonna find other things to do. Gaming 
 and music was fun for a while, but I'm not gonna continue buying stuff that I'm not allowed to 
 own.
  
  Something else I didn't like: I like to go "solo." This game forced you have exactly two companions 
 all the time. They got in the way a lot. I also found that they didn't really help much. If they 
 got killed early in a fight, I often couldn't tell the difference. I would like the option to take 
 only one - or none, when going out on missions. One of the things that was very annoying was that 
 my companions would whack somebody I was working on, before I could finish setting them up. You 
 know? I'd be working on a thug, attacking his shields or whatever, then chickie would come up behind 
 me and finish off my kill. Very frustrating.
  
  There were a couple places where the graphics bogged down. This was something that is experienced 
 by a broad spectrum of gamers and not just my setup.
  
  Bottom Line: I would have given this game a 9 if not for the activation crap. I may have reviewed 
 this game earlier, and ranked it higher, but I recently tried to reinstall the game (to play it 
 again) and ran into activation issues. Makes me want to vomit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hphatecraft
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect has its issues. There are repetitive environments and enemies. The cut scene, story 
 driven gameplay might wear on your patience. The technical issues might really frustrate you. However, 
 if you have the patience and fortitude to deal with the less aspects then you will find this game 
 to be one of the most rewarding gaming experiences ever offered to gamers.
  
  The bottom line is that the story is masterfully crafted, and the action sequences in the game 
 are a blast. Your decisions throughout the game, both in dialogue choices and play style, constantly 
 shape and reshape the unraveling epic plot. It kept me on the edge of my seat just waiting to see 
 what might happen next.
  
  The game, made by the same group responsible for Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, is a recognizable 
 formula. You are a pivotal character placed in the middle of political turmoil. You are tasked 
 with saving the universe, but you are presented with many options that dictate just how you might 
 accomplish going about this task.
  
  I'm not a great writer, nor do I really care to delve into the great depths of detail required 
 to describe the game. All you really need to know is that if you enjoy single-player RPGs then 
 you must play this game. Otherwise, you'll be missing out on a gaming masterpiece. Mass Effect 
 is Deus Ex meets Oblivion, and it does its best to only use the very best of each game. Highly 
 Recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lach0121
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  I give this game an 8.5 because of several reasons... well anything above 8.5 the game has to be 
 one of the best i have ever played, and believe me i have played alot of games.
  now mass effect is a great game, lots of choices, and beautiful enviroments, and great sound, music, 
 story, atmosphere and mood, and an all star cast... seth green, lance henrickson etc. the game 
 has this ability to immerse you into it, especially if you like science fiction. it doesnt give 
 you a million and one upgradable options, which is actually kinda nice, considering alot of games 
 give you too many options for upgrading now...
  the music really draws you in.. not to mention the facial expressions of the characters, and the 
 story unfolds in a way to keep you wanting to know more... 
  i cannot wait for the second and third to come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tanerb
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 17, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect has a great storyline that keeps you continuing on the main quest. This is good because 
 side missions do no worth playing. They are repetitive and boring. Inventory system is one of the 
 worst in any RPG game. Items are differentiated by numbers and they are nearly all same with only 
 some color differences. All items are automatically looted which is quite annoying.
  
  Combat is more like an FPS than an RPG. Theoretically you can use space bar to control your team 
 but it is not practical and definitely not user friendly.
  
  Character interactions are good and there is some romance involved but it ends pre-maturely. Also, 
 after you complete the main mission, game ends it is not open ended.
  
  Overall, i would say do not believe in the hype and wait for the mass effect 2 as this is by far 
 the worst RPG i saw from Bioware 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andruxandd
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 16, 2008 3:11 am PT
Review:  Ago few weeks i decide to write my review for MassEffect before to start really to play this game. Only 
 install and play 30min... and after that write next review:
  
  "Mass Effect... maybe a Jade Empire in variant SF :) Really now, Mass Effect is a nice good rpg-game 
 with great graphics and actions and very attractive dialog, reactions with all answer such as hero 
 must to give. And this dialog make a game more attractive and fetching and sinoptious. Turn the 
 player into a skin of hero.... a girl or boy or single NPC whatever...
  
  Anyway Mass Effect had a good story and good characterization, nice aliens and more action background 
 stories, more races. Graphics is good like a say, PERFECT face expressions mainly for characters 
 but some environment look not so real how must to be for this game.
  
  Gameplay are easy in fact or better says - simply. There is no "bespoke department" is only strictly 
 basic-comand . Good AI team-mates but sometimes forget about they and in the cold light of dawn 
 achieve u are alone... back-up and join the team :)
  
  I don't know if Mass Effect make the skin like the chicken and give u creeps but is a great game 
 with good story and gameplay. Anyone who like RPG shall to play this game in my assessment. Still, 
 for this game i will not use great words like in other review because Mass Effect not need it. 
 Buy, play, see with own eyes what can do... for me was enough to uncovered and now i will play it 
 with great pleasure."
  
  
  I didn't get much by it then... only MassEffect is a great game. Today, after hours and hours and 
 actions and intrigue and amazing story of MassEffect i will write again for this game who make 
 me crazy about.
  
  I like movies SF... and of course games-sf... but till now none of them like MASS EFFECT! This game, 
 if u start and play 1hour and catch the story with all dialog- acting... and game catch u with amazing 
  become a world of mass effect where u living.
  
  And now technical presentation...
  I choose a custom-girl to live in the skin of Shepard... and 
 i don't regret this. All actions of Commander Shepard - make think of Shepard from Stargate Atlantis:) 
 - was very cool well-thought-out and that make the game like movie-game where your hero fight for 
 justice in the Univers.
  From a vision of tech - graphics of this game are amazing and very-very SF but all things who made 
 Mass Effect so great is the story, characters and amazing conversation with great expression (of 
 faces) cast, who make u feel very attached of your character and feel like u never play with someone 
 who does't feel anything from what "she" say, on the contrary, characters look to fell what talk 
 and that make the most and great atmosphere in a game! I loved all 
 
  Graphics - the game is GREAT! Map-galaxy is pure astounding! Story and characters the same and 
 music of this  is perfect!
  
  This was my most long review write in my life for a game. In fact Mass Effect is not a game. Is a 
 form of escape, a oasis of passion and maybe a attempt to break the rules of boring games. I don't 
 know how i see in the future another game after Mass Effect. And how i play... I know only ONE THING... Mass 
 Effect is for me the perfect game! Thankx Bioware!
  
  STORY: +++10!
  GAMEPLAY: +++10!
  GRAPICHS: +++10!
  SOUND&MUSIC:+++10!
  END: Just play it! :) ... is 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ObvilionLost
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect it's what every RPG should be, unlike other RPG's where they get boring after you play 
 it for few hours. Mass Effect has nice storyline, which will keep you playing to find out what 
 will happen next. The game is probably fun because you are not chasing some demons in dungeon with 
 sword, but here you drive an APC, and blow up every single enemy you see. Also, the game is immersing, 
 Bioware had created perfect world where everything make sense, they didn't just randomly make some 
 aliens and put them in game, each race in game has its own history and role. The gameplay is good, 
 you can level up selected skills, upgrade your weapons and suits. If you choose you could even 
 level up other characters manually.
  I didn't rate this game 10, because replay value sucks, after you complete the game there is nothing 
 to do. It would be cool if you could actually explore the planets, without sending survey teams. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geegame
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2008 5:45 pm PT
Review:  The game feels much more serious than i expected it to be.
  It has an excelent control of the camera, the graphics engine is cutting edge and they had put 
 enough attention on visuals and details that make games even better, besides you dont have to 
 read those endless dialogs before you choose an answer at the time of story interaction, which 
 in my opinion is one of the facts that makes some rpgs a bit tedious while speaking with npcs.
 
  
  Story is vast and solid, every little detail mentioned matches later happenings and dialogs, you 
 always have access to the codex where you can read about every race discovered as you progress 
 in the game and much more.
  
  Music is another factor that comes to catch your attention from the very first moment when you 
 enter the main menu.
  
  The ability to download additional content makes the game even better so if you are a big rpg fan 
 who likes those space related games i totally recommend it.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordVanil
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 14, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect was released on the Xbox 360 last year to almost unanimous critical acclaim, heralded 
 by some to be the 'greatest role-playing game of all time'. Highly anticipated since its original 
 announcement, Mass Effect is a next-gen single player role-playing game developed by BioWare, the 
 developer responsible for a veritable stable of classic RPGs including 2002's stellar Star Wars: 
 Knights of the Old Republic. That game was important when it was released on the original Xbox 
 because it introduced many console gamers to the Western RPG and paved the way for other, similar 
 games becoming viable on such a platform. Mass Effect is BioWare's attempt to do the same thing 
 for the next generation of consoles, and while Mass Effect fails to live up to the greatness of 
 Knights of the Old Republic by virtue of a series of poor design decisions, it still manages to 
 stand on its own as an enjoyable role-playing game.
  
  Mass Effect is set in a not-so distant future where mankind has propelled itself into the far reaches 
 of space thanks to a cache of buried alien technology discovered beneath the surface of Mars. Quickly 
 finding itself surrounded on all sides by a multitude of alien species, the human Systems Alliance 
 is swept up by the byzantine intergalactic politics of these various groups. At the head of the 
 galactic government is the Council, a group of elected alien officials who oversee the comings 
 and goings of civilized territory at large. Humanity has been pushing for a seat on the Council 
 of late, much to the chargrin of their fellow species who feel that humanity is moving too quickly; 
 the nearsighted bullies of the Council community.
  
  The right hand of the Council are the Spectres: highly-trained operatives who are free to meet 
 threats to galactic stability outside the boundaries of the law, freeing them to use whatever methods 
 they feel necessary in order to accomplish their goals. But what happens when this privelage is 
 taken too far? When Saren Arterius, the favored agent of the establishment, goes rogue and unleashes 
 an armada of synthetic AI soldiers called 'geth' on an unsuspecting galaxy, the Council turns to 
 Commander Shepard, the only human Spectre, to bring Saren to justice by any means necessary. As 
 Shepard, the player will travel to various worlds aboard their vessel, the Ebon Ha... duh, I mean, 
 the Normandy, in an effort to spurn Saren's manic plans.
  
  If any of that sounds complex, that's because it is. Without a doubt, Mass Effect's greatest triumph 
 is in the universe it presents and in how well it's presented. It's clear that BioWare put an incredible 
 amount of time and effort into creating the universe of Mass Effect, and if you're into this sort 
 of thing, you'll find yourself joyfully mired in the intricacies of the setting. Every detail imaginable 
 here has been fully fleshed out, and both verbal and text entries to your Codex are made constantly 
 throughout, further bringing to light just how much effort BioWare has invested in making the universe 
 of Mass Effect a real, dynamic place. Alien species are distinct and full of character, and each 
 comes with its own history, biological traits, religious beliefs, system of government, and feelings 
 towards humanity and its neighbors (all fully documented, of course) . All manners of advanced technology 
 exists in Mass Effect, and the game will go to impressive lengths to explain exactly how and why. 
 Mass Effect will immerse you, with my having lost sleep to it as evidence enough.
  
  Much of the game's narrative is carried forward through dialogue with various characters, and in 
 true BioWare fashion, this tends to be both well-written and the best part of the game. Though 
 you must play as Shepard you are free to ask the questions you wish and respond as you will, which 
 means that you can either play the game as a thoughtful, open-minded poster-child of human-alien 
 relations or as a ruthless xenophobe willing to do almost anything to see the completion of a mission. 
 Unlike Knights of the Old Republic, the decision-making in Mass Effect isn't such a clearcut choice 
 between good or evil either. With a Spectre's unique position of being above the law comes an added 
 layer of responsibility and moral consideration, and sometimes a decision more regrettable in the 
 immediate future may seem necessary in the long run. The writers were clearly attempting to draw 
 a parallel between Saren's actions and Shepard's decisions, and they succeeded to a degree.
  
  When you're not conversing with the many colorful characters throughout the game you'll probably 
 be fighting. Mass Effect utilizes a real-time shooter-esque 'tactical combat system' that really 
 doesn't turn out to be very tactical at all. Taking a page out of Knights of the Old Republic's 
 book, the game allows you to take two followers with you at any given time. Unlike that game however, 
 you are never able to take direct control of either of them and are instead relegated to giving 
 them extremely rudimentary commands like 'move' or 'rally' along with telling them to use their 
 abilities (the ladder of which is entirely pointless because they'll all do so on their own anyway) . 
 There's also a primitive cover system which allows Shepard and his allies to duck behind crates 
 or corners and take pot-shots at exposed enemies, and unlike the command interface this proves 
 to be somewhat useful because most enemy tactics boil down to either rushing at you like lunatics 
 or standing still and firing listlessly your way. Some characters can make use of psychic-esque 
 Biotic powers as well, which allow them to hurl enemies back or lift them into the air, the second 
 of which being particularly useful because you can just fill them with bullets as they float around 
 helplessly like balloons. Ultimately, Mass Effect's combat isn't particularly engaging or challenging, 
 but it gets the job done.
  
  At various times Mass Effect also forces you behind the controls of a vehicle called the 'Mako', 
 which is sort of a futuristic APC with jump-jets. These are some of the worst sequences of the 
 game largely because they are what they are: vehicular combat sequences designed by RPG developers. 
 The Mako itself handles like there's a drunken mongoose at the wheel and the whole thing just comes 
 off as being out of place and stupid.
  
  It's also worth noting that Mass Effect uses one of the worst inventory systems of any game in 
 recent memory. Large numbers of generic, identical weapons and armors are commonplace and there's 
 no stacking, clear presentation, or obvious sense of organization devoted to their storage. The 
 game forces you to claw your way through numerous buttons, tabs, and tiny lists of equipment to 
 find things, and on top of it all imposes an arbitrary 150 item limit on you, which means you're 
 forced to engage in tedious inventory management relatively often.
  
  But without a doubt the biggest problem with Mass Effect is the pacing of the game itself. The 
 central narrative is compelling enough, but like any role-playing game worth its salt Mass Effect 
 offers you the opportunity to embark on a great deal of optional quests in order to experience 
 more of the story from a different angle and improve your characters. The problem here is largely 
 two-fold. The first problem is that these side-quests are all exactly the same. They all involve 
 venturing into the same one or two base layouts and gunning down anything that moves, which means 
 that they are entirely forgettable and become very tedious rather quickly.
  
  The second problem is that these optional quests don't tie into the main storyline in any way. 
 If it feels like this optional content is entirely unrelated to stopping Saren, that's because 
 it is. What's weird is that the story is written in such a way that Saren's victory is on a timetable, 
 which means that you make the assumption that Shepard would want to stop the rogue Spectre as quickly 
 as possible. This means that it's extremely hard to find any logical motivation to partake in any 
 of these side-quests other than to advance your characters' statistics, and the transition between 
 the engaging central storyline and the tedium of the extraneous content is jarring. I found myself 
 treating the side-quests like chores and ripping through them as fast as I could so I could get 
 back to the parts of the game I actually cared about.
  
  Conversely, one cannot possibly review Mass Effect without pointing out the production values of 
 the game, which happen to be unbelievably stellar. The visuals themselves, despite having been 
 ported over from the Xbox 360, are still extremely impressive and at times stunning. The characters 
 in the game, from Shepard and his companions to the conniving Saren and the rest, are all beautifully 
 rendered and animated to the point where you may catch yourself forgetting that they're not living, 
 breathing creatures. They react as you would expect them to, from verbal outbursts to subtle facial 
 expressions, and the fact that Mass Effect manages to work this all into place so deftly is very 
 impressive. The audio only serves to further immerse you into the universe the game spins so professionally, 
 with the voice acting being another standout. The likes of Marina Sirtis and Seth Green lend their 
 talents to the cast, creating emotional and impactful characters. Mass Effect manages to take all 
 of these elements and expertly weave them amongst one another to create what can only be described 
 as a cinematic experience, truly taking advantage of next-gen principles and hardware to craft 
 a story that is, despite its dry spots, kinetic, beautiful, and motivating. No RPG prior to Mass 
 Effect or any other game period for that matter has managed to do so with such success.
  
  It was difficult for me to come to a conclusion over Mass Effect in the twenty-five hours it took 
 me to finish the game. The storyline was engaging enough to keep me playing until I'd seen the 
 whole thing and was presented so effectively, and yet these things only served to highlight the 
 problems the game has as well. In spite being so slick in so many ways, Mass Effect also suffers 
 from a number of poor design choices that hamper the experience in no small way. Mass Effect is 
 supposedly the first game in a promised trilogy from BioWare, and I have very high hopes that the 
 inevitable sequal will oversome this game's shortcomings while maintaining everything that made 
 it worth playing.
  
  Is Mass Effect the Second Coming of role-playing? Absolutely not. Is it worth the hype? Not really. 
 But is it a gorgeous, cinematic role-playing game? Without question.
  
  The Good: Imaginative and original setting, very immersive, sky-high production values and beautiful 
 visuals
  
  The Bad: Poorly-paced narrative, awful inventory system, stupid driving sequences
  
  ~V 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kanderstag
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 12, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  I bought this on a whim and man it has been one nice ride. I loved exploring, inventory and squad 
 management, and the cinematic gameplay. The various classes were neat, it starts off by default 
 as a soldier which affords the common run-n-gun feel. Your squadmates are mostly effective and 
 useful, unlike other squad games. It would've been nice to have an on-the-fly hud, as you pause 
 things otherwise to make selections. You can hotkey your own powers, so that keeps the action and 
 intensity flowing nicely.
  
  Being able to customize your character... male/female with equally convincing voices was nice, 
 as well the voice acting adresses he/she appropriately. There's also the achievement medal section 
 with various bonuses that really enhances the replayability of the game. As well the good versus 
 direct-borderinbg-on-evil styles of gameplay and decision making. Sometimes it's cool to be the 
 renegade, other times I think it's downright evil. Being good can be a bit too goody-two-shoes 
 sometimes as well.
  
  Inventory management can be cumbersome at times, as well coordinating where you want to go because 
 your journal with mission details is separated from the galaxy map by a few seconds. Ditto trying 
 to remember which squad mate had which power before you leave the ship because you can't see their 
 talents except when you're roaming some planet as a squad. I understand it's a port, but some of 
 the facial graphics were pretty bland. There are odd crashes at times, but those have been few 
 and far between considering the hundreds of hours of gameplay this has afforded me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Improvvisazione
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2008 4:15 pm PT
Review:  The game is just fantastic, and sucks you deep from the beginning to the end. The graphics are 
 spectacular, and sound is over the top. The characters are marvellous, as are the locations of 
 the main missions. If it wasn't for a lack of variety in the side missions, a very small variety 
 of weapons/armors and an annoying system to follow up one's missions (especially the side missions, 
 which are often very difficult to locate) this game could have been the best game of the last 10 
 years.
  
  It's anyhow a must play for everybody, a great effort on the part of Bioware, and a great chance 
 to live some truely deep and well done storytelling. The game world relly needs games like this, 
 which combine state of the art technical level, with a great attention to the "mood" and the deepness 
 of the game experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bridges2002000
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 7, 2008 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Mass effect has a lot to offer nearly all types of gamer from RPG to the FPS and explorer. it offers 
 a great way to play giving it a huge multi play factor giving you a chance to play though with 
 a different class or gaming style.
  
  Graphically its stunning with the scenery and the characters are well thought out but you can still 
 tell it was a console port. the controls can be a little iffy at times and the mako missions are 
 annoying at times..
  
  every one should give it a go in my opinion its story alone is enough to keep nearly any one playing 
 to the end just to see what happens to the plucky human characters :P
  
  The sound acting and vocal talent is near spot on giving you a feel for the characters and what 
 they have to say instead of trying everything to skip those talking scenes
  
  and the sarky comments your able to make later in the game let you be the biggest space ass your 
 dreams desire 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wrath_of_Dog
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2008 12:29 am PT
Review:  The game is wonderful. The plot is compelling. The play is smooth, the controls are easy. Even 
 the NPCs facial movements are well scripted. The first acolyte you talk to are the consort's office 
 winks at you, just watch for it. The game honestly deserves the 9.0 rating, except for the technical 
 faults. The only actual problem with the gameplay is the glacial walking pace in the non-combat 
 areas of the game. The game design also suffers from a slight case of the fetch syndrom, a. k. a. 
  [huff-huff]  
 [huff-huff] 
  [etc.] 
  
  And now back to the technical issues. 
 I have a very standard PC and having 7 freezes, 3 blue screens, and a general protection error 
 so severe that it's requiring reinstallation (which is still in process and I'm not even sure *that's* 
 going to fix it) is too much. *Wait* *for* *patches!*
  
  Another piece of advice, if the seller lists specific no refund policies attached to a specific 
 piece of software, don't buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -generic-
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 6, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is the latest franchise from the respected developer BioWare, whose previous games 
 have all received critical acclaim and still have a significant fan base. This game is all set 
 to carry on the tradition, despite having some minor but annoying game issues, it has a great story 
 that while the basic plot is pretty standard fare  stuff, is presented 
 in such a compelling way that Mass Effect will keep you hooked until the end and thirsting for 
 more, and more will come because two sequels are planned. But BioWare's new masters, EA (Electronic 
 Arts) , have ruined the game by deciding to use an extremely draconian copy protection system that 
 does not actually work (the game was cracked and made available within a week) and in the end hassles 
 legitimate users and encourages piracy.
  
  Gameplay:
  If you've played BioWare's other games such as Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic then this 
 game should feel somewhat familiar, especially the plot and game mechanics. But one of the biggest 
 differences is that the combat is not turn-based but real-time, like a third person shooter. There 
 are other differences but not always for the better. The game unfolds at a steady pace and is full 
 of interesting characters who have been properly fleshed out. You'll meet several characters who 
 will join your quest to stop a rouge agent who has gained command of an army of robots and is set 
 to not only wipe out mankind, but pose a threat to the rest of the galaxy. The plot gets more complicated 
 but I don't want to spoil it for you.
  
  The main plot involves going to several planets uncovering clues to his plans and whereabouts in 
 order to stop him. There are plenty of side-quests which make up the bulk of the game since the 
 main quest only goes to four planets, and while each planet is an adventure that can take up to 
 a few hours to complete, there are still only four of them and once you have all the information, 
 a new planet is revealed that takes you to the location for the final showdown. You can probably 
 finish the game in one or two sittings if you only focus on the main quest, but will be missing 
 a lot of content.
  
  However, once you've finished the main story, if you choose to start a new game with your existing 
 character, your level, experience and items will be carried over, enabling you to play through 
 the game as a more powerful character, the enemies will be tougher and you'll get access to more 
 powerful items (Think Diablo II) . I hope more games implement this feature, because something I 
 have noticed a lot of in RPGs is that once you've reached near the end of the game, you've got 
 the high end gear but only get to play for 10 minutes before encountering the final boss and then 
 it's all over. This greatly adds to the re-playability of the game, and with the different story 
 paths depending on your choices you'll need to play through this game several times to see everything 
 it has to offer. Provided that you don't charge your way through there should be enough time between 
 starting the game, finishing it and starting a new game that it still feels fresh. But there's 
 more, the developers promise that when the sequel is released, your actions in this game will affect 
 the plot in the next game, so keep your saves!
  
  Now that I've mentioned the good aspects of the game, I'm sad to say that this game has its fair 
 share of annoying issues and glitches. When you fire your weapons, they will quickly overheat and 
 you'll have to wait for them to cool down before you can fire again, but they have a tendency to 
 stay permanently overheated and become useless until you load the last save or do a quicksave and 
 then load, a real annoyance especially during boss fights. Other annoyances is the auto-cover system; 
 when you have your weapon out and walk/run into a sufficiently large surface you will automatically 
 take cover behind it and can take pot-shots at the enemy from cover, while this is a good idea 
 in theory and looks cool and realistic, I found it more to be a hindrance because if I'm running 
 too close to a wall, I will auto-cover when I actually wanted to go past.
  
  The AI feels sub-standard, enemies will either stay right where they are or charge at you. Your 
 allies have a nasty habit of walking into your line of fire, fortunately you can't harm them and 
 they can't harm you, but it is still undesirable and ruins the immersion to have fights play out 
 when the combatants run around like headless chickens. They also frequently struggle to keep up 
 with you, getting stuck on a slope or just refusing to follow, despite issuing the command to follow 
 you.
  
  The biggest problem is the horrible inventory system that is cumbersome to use. You will accumulate 
 many items and it is a chore to go through them to determine which ones you want to use, keep, 
 sell or convert to omni-gel (a resource that allows you to hack into computers, repair your vehicle 
 and break into locked containers) because firstly you can only see five items at a time in a your 
 inventory, meaning tedious scrolling, and when you want to convert items to omni-gel it is done 
 one by one, with a confirmation dialogue each time that gets tiresome. Selling items isn't much 
 better, as all your items are shown in one long narrow list without a way to sort through different 
 categories, a third of the screen is wasted on a totally useless representation of the box the 
 item comes in and the item stats keep changing to the non-important back-story of the item when 
 you sell an item.
  
  More issues is when you want to un-equip a weapon upgrade mod; you must click the "empty" slot 
 three times (un-equip, equip, un-equip) or the upgrade mod will not be removed. When you reach 
 the item limit of 150 items, if you pick up any more items or open your inventory you are forced 
 to convert some items into omni-gel, but you can't choose which items to convert because there 
 are no other options available and you can't even exit the dialogue or load a previous save, you 
 have to ctrl-alt-del and kill the game process then re-launch the game, find a shop and sell your 
 excess items if you don't want to lose those items. The arbitrary item limit was a bad idea that 
 was also implemented poorly. The goal of an item limit is ostensibly to provide realism because 
 carrying an unlimited arsenal of weapons and equipment would not be realistic, but then again, 
 you're still able to carry 50 assault rifles, 50 suits of armour and 50 other things within this 
 item limit, so it still isn't any more realistic but inconveniences you, the worst of both worlds. 
 In order to avoid this you should keep a close eye on your items, immediately equipping, selling 
 and converting unneeded items as soon as you get them, but you have six other squad members to 
 outfit and there is no way to manage them at the same time unless you are on your ship and even 
 then you have to walk to each of their lockers to outfit them, so while this is more 'realistic', 
 it loses its novelty fast and becomes a chore.
  
  Graphics:
  I'm not much of a graphics nut, so this will be brief. The game looks fine, but what is really 
 great is the facial details. There were times when I was almost convinced I was watching a real 
 life movie because the characters look very lifelike and coupled with the brilliant voice acting 
 put on a great show. You are able to customise your character's gender and appearance with a variety 
 of pre-sets and fine tuning to mould him/her to your liking. There are some graphical glitches, 
 such as when you equip a new suit of armour it will be blurry for about a second before the details 
 show up, and one of your characters has a glitch where when you view his stats, his face will be 
 detailed for a second then switch to a low resolution blurry version. These issues are minor but 
 are nonetheless noticeable. There is also an odd graphical feature that adds a film grain effect 
 that I found only made the game look worse, but it is easily found in the options menu. I can't 
 see why anyone would want it enabled, to each his own I suppose.
  
  Sound:
  The sound and music is the real star of the show here, the voice acting is top notch and every 
 character you meet has a convincing voice that is neither a flat lifeless monotone nor is it over 
 the top and melodramatic. The music really brings this game to life, from the pleasant background 
 tune of the galaxy map to the slow deep mournful melody of the dead world that belonged to the 
 long lost Protheans, to the upbeat thumping of critical events, music does more than one would 
 expect in enhancing the atmosphere of this game. I wasn't desperately eager about this game when 
 I got it, but when I heard the music in the main menu (the slow deep mournful one I mentioned) , 
 my apathy began to go away and when I finally heard that piece of music in the proper context (the 
 dead world late in the game) it took me a week to stop getting blown away by it, because it's that 
 good. I can't begin to imagine this game without the music.
  
  Value:
  This game will last you on average 20 hours if you play through it at a steady rate while going 
 off to do some side quests, and another 20  30 if you choose to go through again to see everything 
 this game has to offer. It has a solid story and decent re-playability, but the activation limit 
 means that if you install the game too much, you'll have to spend time and money in phoning for 
 a new activation, which adds a running cost element to the game, previously unheard of.
  
  EA and SecuROM:
  But now I come to the game's single biggest flaw that was the cause of controversy 
 and out-shadows the previously mentioned issues that could have been forgiven. What I'm speaking 
 of is the SecuROM copy protection implemented that allows you to activate the game only three times, 
 and once you reach that limit you have to call EA and plead your case to get more activations otherwise 
 your game will not work and you'll have to buy another copy of the game. This was the decision 
 of EA who recently bought out BioWare, the developers. EA are notorious for being the scourge of 
 creativity and gaming in general, buying out independent developer studios and milking their ideas 
 to create mediocre games that get abandoned once sales slow down and discarding the development 
 team once they are of no use. EA are responsible for implementing this horrible DRM scheme, as 
 they intend to do with their future games such as Spore. So much for their 'non meddling' promise, 
 they're as meddling as ever and are doing more harm to their games than piracy could ever do.
 
  
  The three activation limit is just unacceptable and not only is it a slap in the face for legitimate 
 customers, it does not hamper piracy. In the end, people who get the pirated version will have 
 an easier time playing the game  they can install it as many times as they like and don't have 
 to worry about software or hardware conflicts caused by the DRM, wasting time and money on a phone 
 call to beg for their game back if they decide to upgrade their OS or system too many times (because 
 PC gamers never upgrade their PCs on a regular basis, nope) . All my games have been reinstalled 
 at least five times over the course of my computer's lifespan between reformats, major upgrades 
 and system maintenance where I want to free up space, I should not have to be worried about arbitrary 
 activation limits and I do not have to justify needing multiple installations. What I do with my 
 computer is my prerogative.
  
  Conclusion:
  All in all, Mass Effect is a great game that although has a basic plot, is executed to a very high 
 quality level. It has a few nagging issues but can be forgiven by its great presentation. However, 
 the absolutely unreasonable DRM makes it hard to recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nzilla
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect for the PC was pretty decent. I did enjoy how RPG elements were combined with a FPS 
 format. Being a fan of both, I had a lot of fun. Being a huge fan of plot, I was very pleased to 
 see this plot line was inspired. Really kept me wanting more. However, the game kept slapping that 
 feeling out of me. At first you want to complete every mission, solve every problem, do everything, 
 have every conversation. Then it slowly dawns on you that all the conversations are basically the 
 same no matter if you are good or evil about it. No biggy. Besides having the option to save this 
 person or shoot them in the face, there is no real difference either way. I guess that's part of 
 being above the law, good or bad there aren't many consequences to your actions.
  
  Oh well, I can deal with that. But wait. All the planets seem the same, snowy with mountains, desert 
 with mountains, grassy with mountains, OH LOOK, a moon, WITH MOUNTAINS. Not saying that driving 
 your Mako on the surface of ransom planet X isn't fun, it's a blast, but plodding along the same 
 terrain over and over again trying to reach objective a, which by the way most of the objectives 
 and buildings and such look the same and have the same insides.... Sorry, I fell asleep there due 
 to all the unchanging scenery. Oh well, at least there is an inspired inventory system. Grabbing 
 new weapons with different strengths and... oh wait, this sniper rifle shoots just like the other 
 sniper rifle, except this one is slightly better... Oh well. Actually, the weapon sameness wasn't 
 so much of an issue. On my second replay through the game I had ramped up my assault rifle to the 
 extent where i had no heat generations at all. I could just lay on the fire button and never overheat, 
 that was pretty cool. Put some awesome bullets in that bad boy and go to town.
  
  The primary missions is really where it's at. Scenery in some locations is again, repetitious but 
 it's exciting, with different enemies than your standard geth doodad. It's sort of a letdown when 
 you realize that these new enemies will rarely ever show their faces again. Oh well. For the most 
 part you'll be gunning down Geth robot something or other, with a few Krogan and Asarii thrown 
 in there for good measure.
  
  Customization is awesome at first, but you eventually develop to a point where you just kick lots 
 of ass and pretty much none of it matters. Assignments would be awesome if they felt different 
 from one another.
  
  All this aside, still fun to play. I did like the squad, they pretty much shot at whatever happened 
 to be shooting at me, which is really all I ask from them. You so wish you had these guys for Doom 
 3, at least it wouldn't be so damn quiet. Still, it really didn't matter much who you brought, 
 you were the primary ass kicker.
  
  The biggest problem in this game that I found were some glitches in the game. Certain textures 
 didn't rez right and were replaced by blackness, cute on the Citadel, but on one level with which 
 i can only assume pits of lava... I say assume because i couldn't see any of them, I had to maneuver 
 my Mako around invisible instant death traps by trial and error. It's a testimate to how bad ass 
 I am that I still pulled it off, still that should have been caught before shipping date. Who tests 
 these things, monkeys? I even got my characters glitched every once in a while where the control 
 interface would freeze up for no apparent reason and I'd have to close the program.
  
  All in all, a fun game to play. At the end of the day, blasting robots with a giant moon crawling 
 dune buggy equipped with cannons is always fun, not to mention railing down hallways full of bad 
 guys. It could have been better, it could have been longer. Still, I had fun, and at the end of 
 the day, isn't that what is really important? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Decardcain
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 1:39 am PT
Review:  this game is superb. I must tell that i am waiting the hollywood movie... great plot... amazing 
 graphics ... great voice acting ... i am ecstatic with this epic journey... cant wait to see the 
 continue of the story... the most impressive is that we have not just a particurarly game but a 
 complete series... look forward to see mass effect part two and three ... this game will create 
 it own mythology ... various of skills ... an ocean of races ... an entire universe ... an epic 
 world similar to lord of the rings in a space opera environment... conspiracies... secrets... emotions... 
 action... i am not play a game is a hollywood product isn it..? In my opinion with the approach 
 of fallout and the rival of rise of the argonauts and this outstanding game called mass effect 
 rpg will gain new level of experience ... very mature game similar to witcher... go on ... effect 
 the masses Mass Effect... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cantante80
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Great game. Coming from playing more RPG than 1st person shooters, I really enjoyed the combination. 
 I also enjoyed the story: well thought out, not black and white, alternative approaches all felt 
 justified. The three classes (three of them are hybrids of the initial three) play very differently 
 and effectively so. I also enjoy the feature of unlocking powers as they're used to be used in 
 future characters. It made for fun customization. Replays felt worthwhile and therefore the game 
 was money well-spent for me. The characters are interesting and provide a great feel. Cooperative 
 AI glitches can be frustrating, combat and travel in the vehicle can be monotonous, or just annoying 
 (fighting a thresher maw at the more difficult lvls eventually require multiple saves during the 
 duration) and I wish there were some multiplayer element, esp. cooperative which I enjoy very much. 
 Overall, one of the best games I've played in a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragoness27
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 30, 2008 9:15 pm PT
Review:  I've never really been a fan of anything sci-fi, and usually brush it aside. Mass Effect is one 
 exception, an impressive FPS-RPG with the best voice acting in any game to date; it really raises 
 the bar on this aspect in video games and shows just how much it can help bring a game-world and 
 its story to life. 
  
  I'm not going to go too much into the story or anything, since its been explained alot in other 
 reviews, but basically its an epic space opera where you play Commander Shepard, who can be either 
 male or female. One thing I really appreciate playing the female shepard, is that as much effort 
 went into her voice acting as the male's. It unfolds in a pretty epic manner and should keep you 
 glued to the screen until the final scenes. It's nothing ground-breakingly original mind you, but 
 you do get attached to the characters and the entire story is very well presented. It's just disappointing 
 as how short it is... the main quest alone will take you around 10-15 hours to complete and although 
 the many side quests will about double it, most of those are quite dull and repetitive.
  
  I found the combat system awkward at first, but its done well, my only complaint is the constant 
 need to pause to tell your comrades to use certain abilities, since you can't put any of their 
 actions into the hotbar, only yours. You can choose to play a good selection of different classes, 
 and each plays and feels different. I personally enjoyed the Infiltrator, which is like Mass Effect's 
 rogue class, picking off enemies with the powerful sniper and disabling enemy defenses with electronic 
 skills. There's bound to be a class that suit your particular playstyle.
  
  Visuals and animations are gorgeous and no complaints... except the planets where the various side 
 quests take place quickly feel very samey and dull to explore. The NPCs feel life-like with the 
 facial animations and gestures.
  
  Side quests are the game's weaknesss... I'll say again 90% of them feel samey and rushed. 
  
 
  
  Overall Mass Effect is a worthwhile FPS-RPG with an engrossing story, fun combat, gorgeous visuals 
 and memorable characters. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ladyperfectmind
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2008 1:40 am PT
Review:  The story is your average evil alien race want to take over/destroy the universe and it's up to 
 you to save the day/world/universe. 
  The characters are quite well made and the dialog is pretty engaging.
  The combat could do with 
 a bit of revising. It is pretty cloggy and difficult especially when dealing with multiple enemies. 
 The AI could also do with a bit of upgrading. Although the enemies make up for what they lack in 
 intelligence with numbers, the NPC's that accompany you just impede you most of the times.
  It is fantastic that you get your own ship and get to explore the galaxy. After a couple of hours 
 (maybe even less, depending on how perceptive you are) you start to notice that every single planet 
 you can land on looks the same as every single other planet you have visited, save for a few colors 
 here and there. Thus the explorational part gets quite repetitive and boring. 
  All in all this is a relaxing game. Although it could do with a number of improvements, it still 
 is worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackcro55
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  I did find the game very easy playing as an Infiltrator (I finished the game with well over 9M 
 credits - the game only displays 9M) . In addition, I suffered a lot of crashes after switching 
 to an NVidia 8800GT: every time the game switched from one cutscene to the next, the vid would 
 freeze and I was forced to reboot my computer. That was using the latest driver as well as an earlier 
 beta.
  
  Other than that, it is a phenomenally well executed game that deserves all it's accolades.
  
 
  I found the story to be particularly well written with very few gaps or unexplained loose ends. 
 The voice acting is also very well done: consistent and varied across all of the actors. The complexity 
 of the dialog is also continuously changing depending on missions that you did.
  
  One thing I found interesting (being familiar with NWN etc) was that you could get paragon points 
 independent of Renegade points: one did not affect the total of the other. Mind you I also had 
 well over 175 paragon points and the scale stopped at 100.
  
  Finally the graphics were just stunning with real human motion.
  
  It's a solid buy and I recommend 
 it. I only score the game lower because it was fairly easy and due to the graphics glitches that 
 were very painful (requiring reboot) . I do recognize that was probably due to the graphics card/drivers, 
 but the 8800 is an extremely popular card. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TemplarOfBacon
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost, Mass Effect was created by Bioware, whom have already made some great rpg's 
 in the past, such as Baldur's Gate and Neverwinter Nights. They have made Grade A roleplaying games 
 before and this is not an exception.
  
  In Mass Effect you play as Captain Shephard. Now now don't think you'll be playing some static 
 run of the mill ship captain/hero. Though your character will always be named Captain Shephard, 
 you can make him male or female, old or young, or even balding. Though the face customization options 
 aren't very complex, they also aren't very diverse as one would expect. It is nonetheless a brilliant 
 way to make your Shephard as you invision. He can have a take no prisoners soldier mentality or 
 he can be an honest and beneficient hero type. It all depends on your dialogue choices in all of 
 the conversations you will be having. You can kill that alien right where he stands or you could 
 reason with him instead. This offers some fun replayability.
  
  Now on to the real meaty stuff. The lore and world. The aliens you encounter are diverse and intriguing, 
 just like some of the worlds you will land on. The lore in this game is fascinating and will keep 
 you wanting to explore around looking for more information to find out about everything else in 
 this fantasy space. If you are into interesting npcs and factions, then you will be in love with 
 Mass Effect.
  
  The combat in the game is a mix of over the shoulder gun firing and rpg style statistics. You have 
 to invest skill points into the shotgun skill if you want to take down your foes faster for instance. 
 Though the combat is not boring, it's not brilliant either. The FPS style will keep you aware and 
 into the fight, as opposed to auto-attacks in other rpg games.
  
  Side quests are aplenty in Mass Effect, and you will usually have around 15 or more constantly 
 in your journal log throughout the game. They have fun stories and even a twist or two will happen 
 as you go through them. Unfortunetely the majority of your side quests will take place on a multitude 
 of planets where you will land via Mako. This brings us to our next subject.
  
  The Mako is powerful yet mobile all terrain vehicle used in a LOT of the missions in the game. 
 Many people complain that the Mako parts of the game were a horrible addition. I believe that it 
 is like candy. It is really good at first but after too much you start to feel sick of it. Repetitive 
 is all I can really say. The game had Mako segments like there was no tomorrow. The mobile tank 
 is resilient, that is, as resilient as an old guy wearing body armor and kevlar. Sure, the tank 
 can take hits that would normally one-hit kill you and your squad mates, but the game throws so 
 many anti vehicle foes in your path that you end up just strafing back and forth to dodge lasers. 
 Talk about ruining an epic feel of a mission.
  
  Despite all this the game is great and worth a buy if you enjoy rpgs or just a well done story. 
 By the time you reach the end of the plot you will be yearning for the sequal. The game should 
 run fine if you meet the bare minimum as well, though I did experience a few freezes once in awhile. 
 Just save often and you'll be fine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khatibi22
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 30, 2008 1:12 am PT
Review:  I must admit I had a real pleasurable time playing Mass Effect, so it is hard to evaluate this 
 game fairly. 
  I had guilty feelings giving a game which glued me to the PC for many hours a low rating, After 
 all gaming is supposed to be an entertaining experience, isn't it?
  The fact is that Mass Effect had some serious issues and and no or little wow factors. But lets 
 talk about the good parts first. The main characters were interesting and the story was good. I 
 mean good enough for a video game. You could choose the class, the way you look, your gender, your 
 character. You could be a hard fighting soldier or an expert working with telekinetic powers. You 
 could choose your background, which had an influence on the future dialogs. The environment and 
 the level design was believable although sometimes lifeless and monotonous. The combats were not 
 really challenging but if you choose a harder level, it ended up as being satisfactory. What I 
 really appreciated was the presence of a quicksave. Although I found not being able to save during 
 combats as a very good choice. It would have made them way too easy! The antagonist were also interesting 
 and exciting enough to make the player eager to face them and fight them. What I didn't like about 
 this game were the side quests. Repetitive and boring. A couple of them were better though. The 
 vehicle in general was kind of lame too. I mean how could you fall of a cliff and suffer no damage? 
 The gameplay is also linear, run and shoot, run and shoot. It felt more like a 3rd person shooter 
 than a rpgs game. There were also no real difference between the weapons you used, the pistol felt 
 almost the same as the shotgun. The Grenades did little damage and one never feels that this specific 
 upgrade does something other than that other upgrade. You had no real control over your squad, 
 I wished it was possible to switch between squad members as one could do in kotor. Well there is 
 a lot more to say, but altogether Mass Effect was a joyful gaming experience and I really hope 
 the developer will polish the weak points and bring out a sequel which is even better than the 
 original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anasazi_pr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 1:29 pm PT
Review:  This is the best RPG I've played in years. It has all the best elements: an engaging and mature 
 storyline, beautiful environments, instinctive gameplay and excellent voice acting. I've found 
 myself playing for six hours straight without realizing how much time has passed.
  
  Of course, it's not exactly flawless. The elevator sequences (used by the game to load new areas) 
 are too long, and there's nothing really to look at. The various "LOADING" screens that appear 
 while you are walking around an environment can become highly annoying, but I'm thankful that they 
 only last 2-3 seconds. There are some audio glitches every now and then, which is a shame because 
 the voice actors really do excel. The Auto-Save feature is horrid, so make sure you save regularly. 
 The game has crashed a couple of times, but I'm thinking is more due to Vista than to the game. 
 
  
  All in all, a solid 9.5/10.
  
  I can't wait till Mass Effect 2 hits the markets. If you are a fan of RPG games or sci-fi culture, 
 then don't miss this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simeon_Crane
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  I was very skeptical about this game, but after I got bored with AOC, and there was nothing else 
 out, I went ahead and got it. I have to say I was very plesently surprised. This game is a master 
 peice, and completely absorbing. The controls on the PC seem magical and the graphics are truely 
 amazing. The fact that extra content is available for free download just ices the cake too. I just 
 finished Mass Effect last night and I will start on Bring down the Sky today. Can't wait.
  
  If you like Sci-Fi and games with depth and story you will love this game. The story is so 
 enthralling, and it makes you want to learn more and more. I haven't really been worried and anxious 
 to see what happens next in a game I think ever. I truely felt for these characters and some of 
 the decisions you have to make are almost impossible.
  
  The only negatives I saw in the game were a few freezing up bugs where I had to restart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JonnyEarthquake
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  When I first heard of Mass Effect in a tiny article of my local gaming magazine, I was rather surprised 
 of the ambition developers had. In early development stage BioWare already planned to make a trilogy. 
 And the whole thing was supposed to be open ended. How many rants like that had I heard? In the 
 end, I was right, Mass Effect is no way perfect. It`s just great.
  
  When humanity discovered ancient technology on Mars, called mass effect, homo sapiens managed to 
 make their way out of Solar System and engage contact with way more advanced alien races. In the 
 whole galatcic political affairs, we were just another merely intelligent race. But it`s about 
 to change. The name of the change is Commander Shepard.
  
  Mr. (or Mrs.) Shepard is a veteran soldier, on his (or her) way to the next mission - reach a human 
 colony Eden Prime to recover an ancient Prothean - a long extinct race - artifact. Unfortunately, 
 someone else is after it - a sentient machine race, called the geth, led by a rouge - gone ex-Spectre 
 - Jedi of the ME universe - Saren.
  After various interesting plot twists, Commander Shepard realizes that another machine race - but 
 beyond measure ancient one - is threatening the whole Universe. In every 50 000 years they come 
 to destroy al living creatures. No one has ever managed to break the cycle. But they haven`t run 
 into humans yet.
  It`s quite unfair to say that ol` good apes save the universe once again. Shepard is accompanied 
 by almost every specimen of each race, collected in the first missions. They all have their backstory, 
 personal tragedies and sometimes even quests. But a bit later about that.
  
  Oblivion! The game starts just like TES IV - with rather advanced character generator. As I mentioned 
 earlier, you can choose between male and female character. The whole generation thing kicks butt, 
 and unlike Oblivion, the characters look very realistic. Also whe have to select our minor`s backstory 
 (there are even some quests related to it!) . And the character class selection - Soldier, Technician 
 and Biotic. Biotics are the local Jedi, except the lightsabers. There are cross classes like Biotic 
 - Technician and Soldier - Biotic. Unfortunately classes are horribly balanced - Soldier is almost 
 invincible due to inhuman regeneration rate, Technician skills are necessary very few times, and 
 in fact you can complete the game without using tech skills. Plus our fellow NPC`s employ every 
 class, so specialization can be taken out of pure taste.
  
  Let`s start with the combat system. It`s not the greatest, I`ll tell you. Firefights are chaotic, 
 cover system is okay, but may drive you insane when fighting in tight spaces, partner control (Shepard 
 and two more NPC`s can go) is poor and you`ll find yourself selecting mostly fighter class characters. 
 Special abilities doesn`t add too much of tactical feel either.
  Just don`t expect battles to be as dynamic and exciting as most of today`s shooters.
  We`ve got 
 armor, a pistol, assault rifle, shotgun and sniper rifle, plus grenades and tech equipment. Everything 
 can be upgraded, changed and the like. Overall, everything`s traditional. But for some reason Shepard 
 can carry 10 armors, 30 rifles and 80 upgrades in his (her) backpack. Selling items is pure clickfest.
 
  Also there are driving sequences. They are easy and fun (jumping with ATV = win) .
  But to get to the battlefield itself, we have our own ship, experimental spaceship SSV Normandy 
 - the best humanity has to offer. After becoming the first human Spectre (like you didn`t see that 
 coming) , Commander Shepard cam travel the whole Milky Way, hunting Saren, accepting (or declining) 
 quests from Alliance Fleet, local authorities, Shepard`s own past and teammates. Here Mass Effect 
 fails. Go to that planet, kill everything that moves, pick up something, return. There are some 
 exceptions, but it`s all mostly dull. 
  Here comes another fail. Star systems all look alike, mostly 6 planets in each, only one suitable 
 for landing (terrains look ABSOLUTELY identical to eachother) , sometimes one spaceship (again, 
 not a single difference between them) . The rest of planets can be "searched" (a single button press) . 
 We can look for artifacts and minerals (for the good of humanity) . A huge hackwork BioWare. On 
 the other hand, creating every cluster different would take additional two more years.
  Of course, plot - important areas are designed much different and careful.
  
  The plot is... 
 simply superb! In-depth history of everything, almost alive and very likeable characters plus Light 
 sand Dark side of the Force... Sorry, I mean Paragon (goodie) and Renegade (guess yourself) . Just 
 like KOTOR, we can be the good and the bad. Yes, sometimes there are neutral choices, but Shepard 
 will be forced to take some serious decisions what affect the plot, but not too seriously. Also 
 you can simply ask NPC`s about themselves etc.
  It`s also interesting that Paragon and Renegade can be developed almost simultaneously. Spectres 
 stand over laws, baby!
  
  Graphically, Mass Effect looks next gen, but... due to porting there are many of technical issues 
 and glitches that ruins the experience a bit. But character models look 10/10, full lip synchronization 
 and realistic facial expressions... wow. But BioWare has overused blur effect too much.
  
  When we come to sound, this is another place where Mass Effect shines. Though weapons sound rather 
 poor and music isn`t the most memorable thing, actors have done titanic job of recording every 
 dialogue and they have done it Oscar-worthy. I just have to mention Jenifer Hale`s great job being 
 the best female Commander ever (in case if you didn`t know, she did Bastila in KOTOR) .
  
  Despite the shallow RPG system, chaotic fights and various minor porting issues, Mass Effect is 
 just one of those games, what just have to be played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgthalka
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 25, 2008 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Let's just take this step-by-step.
  
  1.) The much-heralded "new" dialogue system. The conversation system in Mass Effect was hyped to 
 be this total re-invention of RPG dialogue systems. By giving the player multiple abbreviated conversational 
 "tones", you could steer the conversation naturally, without getting buried reading your own dialogue 
 options and instead just going with a briefly described tone of speech, and watch the drama unfold.
 
  
  In reality, the dialogue system in Mass Effect is a re-skin of everything we've seen before in 
 Bioware/Black Isle-style RPGs. Instead of scrolling through numbered dialogue lines, you point 
 your mouse in one of six different directions to select your response. Your character's options 
 are incredibly barebones and lack any distinct personality beyond the goody-two-shoes responese 
 (hint: press up!) , the dastardly villain responses (hint: press down!) , or the indifferent (hint: 
 the middle choice!) . These directional queues are the same throughout the entire game, and regardless 
 of which "tone" you choose, it hardly changes anything you see unfold in the game.
  
  This does a few bad things to a RPG. A.) Your boring personality (especially the monotonous male 
 lead voice acting ... allegedly the female lead VA is better) makes it boring to play this character. 
 B.) It kills any replayability b/c it doesn't matter if you play as a villain or as a bad guy, 
 aside from minor skill points associated with your morality. And C.) It still doesn't feel realistic! 
 It's a new skin on an old interface. You can still ask the same questions over and over and get 
 the same identical lines barked back at you. You always direct conversation like a private detective, 
 poking topics and listening to overwritten stump speeches blurted back at you, sometimes filled 
 with awkwardly in-depth amounts of history and game lore thrown in just to get it in there somehow.
 
  
  2.) The death of interesting tactical RPG combat. If you've played any of the Infinity Engine RPGs 
 by Bioware, you've seen how awesome group-based tactical combat can be. Real bosses present a real 
 challenge and hard-earned rewards. Any of the dragon or lich fights from Baldur's Gate II are reason 
 alone to miss the glory days of experimenting with combat tactics until you finally break through 
 and find something that works against a boss. Or even just large groups of bad guys could be a 
 blast to take down, pushing you and your characters to the limit, using all of your abilities to 
 get by the skin of your teeth.
  
  But then KOTOR came along. While KOTOR was a fantastic storyline to play through, it wasn't exactly 
 the most balanced gameplay ever. As soon as you got a group of Jedis, you could plow through the 
 entire game on autopilot. The difference between Mass Effect and KOTOR is that you can plow through 
 the entire game on autopilot AS SOON AS YOU START A NEW GAME. Combat is absurdly simple. Point 
 and shoot. Take cover. Or don't take cover. It doesn't really matter. You'll cut through everything 
 with nary a problem. A few boss battles offer a minor, minor challenge in that at least it's more 
 than just aiming and killing until they're dead. Instead, maybe they move around faster, or maybe 
 you have to shoot some spawns first, then shoot the boss ... etc., etc., etc.
  
  Suffice to say, if you enjoy tactical combat with any challenge whatsoever, you won't find it in 
 Mass Effect.
  
  Sort of a tangent to the easy combat, don't expect any interesting class building. You're either 
 shooting a gun, using a few Force-like powers, or some combination of the two. Whether you play 
 a Soldier or a Sentinel or whatever, it doesn't really matter. The game will play basically the 
 same. So there goes that element of replayability. Also, don't expect gear upgrades to be anything 
 to look forward to. Everything fires and feels the same. You never feel "more powerful" with new 
 items or noticeably more empowered. All gun styles fire the same, so if you've fired one assault 
 rifle, you've fired them all.
  
  3.) World lore, characters and storyline progression. This is the big one, one that Bioware usually 
 knocks out of the park. If you're playing a RPG for any reason, at the very least you expect a 
 good, epic, emotional storyline to get swept up by and see interesting places and meet interesting 
 characters. You'd think with an original IP, Bioware would have this down like science. ... Which, 
 in a way, they did turn it into science. The world and lore of Mass Effect is incredibly academic 
 and clinical. The narrative is usually delivered in long-winded monologues by NPCs with varying 
 quality of voice acting. It's told like a college history course lecture. "THESE PEOPLE DID THIS 
 TO THESE PEOPLE, THEN THESE PEOPLE DID THIS OTHER THING TO THOSE PEOPLE, THEN SOME OTHER PEOPLE 
 DID ..." It's semi-interesting stuff, more in line with what Lucas did in The Phantom Menace. Lots 
 of overarching economic and factional disputes. Race wars. Foreign threats. Stuff that happened 
 in the past.
  
  Maybe it will capture your imagination. It didn't capture mine.
  
  The manner of storytelling is like a textbook, rather than anything unfolding before your very 
 eyes, or discovering yourself through your own actions, or learning anything from your environments 
 or world design. No, all that stuff is pretty plain and ordinary. A sci-fi RPG filled with corridors 
 and hallways, elevators and switches, blandly industrial complexes that could be present-day Detroit 
 ... or intergalactic spaceways of the future. Whichever.
  
  Which is odd for an RPG in particular, a genre where the player is accustomed to directly affecting 
 the course of the storyline and directly being responsible for whether civilization survives or 
 crumbles. In Mass Effect, I never felt this way about anything that was happening. Instead, you're 
 just privy to hearing about or watching stuff happen, more of a bystander or a loosely involved 
 tangential player, watching cutscenes go by as you plod along the linear gameplay straight 'n' 
 narrow.
  
  All in all, I was expecting a lot from Mass Effect and very disappointed once I actually played 
 through it. The game sets the stage for two sequels. I hope the sequels will spend more time directly 
 telling stories that directly involve you, the player, and you'll spend less time listening to 
 history lessons and monologues. I hope the sequels give you meaningful choices to make throughout 
 the game, more than just a couple token  choices, and offer more 
 replayability through branching storylines and more nuanced combat and class play styles. But ultimately, 
 I hope Bioware raises their game when it comes to story and character development. Rediscover their 
 sense of humor, originality and human-ness. The plot and characters in Mass Effect are sterile, 
 streamlined and edited down to a perfect approximation of a good RPG, but takes no risks in originality 
 or creativity or surprise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackoja
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  After seeing all of the other Great reviews, I was expecting a solid RPG and they really came up 
 short. The game has the feel of a console, which I abhor in PC games. It can be done, but rarely 
 is. (Oblivion is a good example of a crossover done right) .
  
  The Combat is really what disappoints in this game as it is clearly designed for a handheld controller 
 with little precision. It just feels sloppy on the PC. I turned off (down) the aiming assistance 
 and it helped some, but the bad taste is firmly in my mouth.
  
  Now the RPG aspects seem to be decent enough, but I also dislike games that "help" me too much. 
 The implementation of the conversations is well done.
  
  I do not recommend this game for anyone who is a die-hard PC fan. If you grew up on the 360, then 
 you will like/love this game just fine; but for those like me, its a definite PASS/NEXT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p00pz
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2008 10:14 pm PT
Review:  Once in a while an amazing game is released that blows away anything. Mass Effect is one of those 
 games. From the get go, you know it will be a nice treat when you can custom build a character 
 (male of female) and create their history. The game is driven by choices, or how you interact with 
 key characters and how you complete missions. There are two main paths to follow: Renegade and 
 Paragon. If you are more sadistic and ruthless, your character will be inclined to Renegade, the 
 opposite applies to Paragon.
  
  However you decide to play, all choices are acceptable, reactions from characters and reputation 
 will precede you. Character building is also quite comprehensive but somewhat uncomplicated by 
 incorporating a simple character attribute/skills table. So "ruining" a build late game is impossible. 
 Your team mates will more than make up for the lack of experience your character may have in certain 
 areas.
  
  Experience points are awarded when completing missions. You will travel to various parts of the 
 galaxy to complete a variety of main story assignments and optional assignments. The latter being 
 rather unpolished and redundant, will not offer the same level of accomplishment and rewards as 
 the main story missions. Skipping those until late game is a good idea.
  
  Some missions will allow you to make use of an all terrain rover equipped with very powerful weapons. 
 This vehicle trumps any foe encountered in the game and makes quick work within seconds of the 
 most powerful NPC's. Somewhat unbalanced...
  
  The graphics are mind blowing for an RPG. Particle effects galore, reflections, refractions and 
 all the sweet effects all crammed into expansive space stations and barren planets. The characters 
 look incredibly realistic and have precise facial animations.
  
  The sounds are pure ear candy, explosions, weapons, everything. Pure bliss. The music is gorgeous, 
 from the title screen to just walking around and exploring. 
  
  Top to bottom I thought this game was amazing. Only few quirks to mention but the core game play 
 remains untouched by negatives. Had alot of fun with this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elidan1012
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  I installed the game, thrilled to finally have it in my hands. I'd just bought a new computer and 
 I really looked forward to the awesome graphics everybody talked about. I was indeed stunned by 
 the character models and animations, but when it came to terrain (in the Mako) I caught myself 
 thinking; "I guess that's alright". Overall though, it's beautiful.
  
  When it comes to soundtrack, dialog and storyline it scores a big "Yay!". The only negative thing 
 to say here is about the replay value when it comes to the dialog. Even if you try to act opposite 
 of what you did last time (Good/Paragon - Evil/Renegade) , a lot of the dialog is identical and your 
 just waiting for it to end. Don't get me wrong, the dialog is really great, just not when you know 
 what they are going to say.
  
  Something that really boosts the replay value is the choice to play different "classes". If you 
 choose the default, you are, like Ashley, only combat, which is by far the easiest "class". I personally 
 like tech abilities, mostly because that makes you able to open lockers, that you would not otherwise 
 be able to.
  
  To sum up; if you've played previous BioWare RPG's, like KotOR (Knights of the Old Republic) the 
 chance of you loving this game is huge. On the other hand, if you haven't tried something like 
 this before, you owe yourself, and the little gamer inside your head, at least to try it out by 
 renting or borrowing it from a friend of yours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2nna
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 11:27 pm PT
Review:  when i first saw videos of mass effect on the xbox 360 i wasn't that impressed and i thought it 
 would be just another one of those rpg / action mix games. but after the game's release i was shocked 
 by the high score the game got on many sites and i was impressed by the player comments so i decided 
 to track it down. And when the game was released on the pc i bought it immediately and that was 
 one of the greatest things i've ever done in my whole life. The game is a beautiful mix of action 
 and rpg, but the beautiful thing is that it scores really high on both elements. The story is original 
 and fantastic (better than the stories of most movies these days) . The action sequences are just 
 plain fun, but the rpg elements are truly a master piece. you have many character classes to choose 
 from and they do play completely different from each other. and besides that you can develop ur 
 character the way u like and i'm not talking about classes but your personality and character and 
 each has different consequences and different ending. the AI is good but not perfect specially 
 for your allies who will shoot u in the line of fire more than often. But besides that everything 
 else is just perfect.
  Bottom line is that mass effect is a truly unique experience that will keep u playing for a long 
 time and shouldn't be missed at all costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: endtype
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 10:15 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect introduces an ammazing, immersive new SCI-FI world in a great action/RPG game. Bioware 
 FTW!!!!
  
  Mass Effect is just a blast. To start with I'll talk about the gameplay. The RPG element is similar 
 to KOTOR except less limiting and bothersome. Now the action part is fun. On contrast to turn based 
 real time combat in KOTOR, Mass EFFECT is a SHOOTER, that allows you to throw grenades, shoot, 
 take cover, crouch, use specials, etc. The story is great too. The World just brings you into an 
 awesome world. I hope more work is put into this world for future mass effect projects, because 
 they got something good here. 
  
  However the story felt like it ripped off the the first KOTOR a bit. Graphically I like the Film 
 Grain effect. The game also introduces some great characters. 
  
  The most fun about the gameplay is the biotic powers. These are kinda like altering physical world 
 stuff... and it' fun to combine with guns. I was playing as the standard soldier charactter, so 
 I'm going to go through the game as a Adept (BIOTIC DUDE) . But I used my squad biotic powers to 
 move enemies then shoot at them. With this game I only hope they use the action part in the KOTOR 
 MMO, b/c this game is now one my faves. I love what Bioware has been doing lately with their games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crelus
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 20, 2008 9:23 am PT
Review:  Yes, normally I'd give a great review of the game, but after finding out that it requires reactivation 
 every 10 days makes me say this sucks. Yes, companies are in business to make a profit, but it 
 seems that the "need to make a profit" line has allowed us to loose all of our rights as consumers. 
 Just because a company wants to make money doesn't give them the right to do whatever they want 
 to me.
  
  For those that think this is a good thing, here's what I'll say, put the "limited 3 activations. 
 Reactivates every 10 days over the internet" in clear lettering on the box and advertisements for 
 the game and I won't complain. Sure, companies are trying to protect themselves but they seem to 
 do it in a sneaky fashion. Put it out in the open for all to see on the box and don't hide it and 
 we'll see. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bungmeister
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2008 1:04 am PT
Review:  When I first heard that Mass Effect was going to go the way of "console only" I was very disappointed. 
 The 'console only' excuses are cellophane transparent and thin imho - but businessman tend to ruin 
 everything for their own retirement accounts.. but I digress.
  
  The game itself is very well done from the story-line point of view. I think the plot and sub-plots 
 were well thought out and together they built a very convincing and deep environment for the game 
 to be played in. I think this gets under-emphasized a lot in many games and they left nothing to 
 want here.
  
  The different races and back-story are convincing and missions/tasks do a great job of introducing 
 and fleshing out the story as well as the motivations.
  
  I also thought the types of missions were interesting with the planet roving assault vehicle (interesting 
 take on physics there..) as well as the more conventional "run around and complete errands" types 
 of tasks. In fact, the first-person aspects of the combat are a welcome design idea and should 
 be embraced more often in the genere.
  
  The game did seem overly-easy imho, and replay with harder difficulties are really not appealing 
 to me - however they are there (iirc) .
  
  Ultimately, however, this game is probably far more satisfying and ground-breaking to console players 
 than PC players. There are about a dozen very good games like this in recent history (albeit with 
 swords and wizards, or light-sabres) so for the PC player you will probably not be flabbergasted. 
 That being said, its a very rich game, with some great game-play mechanics and open-ended play 
 where your decision seem to affect outcomes and the universe is well worth the experience.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HicktownMayor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  My friend has the game for the Xbox 360 and when I first saw him play it I just thought it was 
 a rip-off of Halo and Star Wars. Well, I ended up gettin the game for PC through a series of events 
 and I love it. I was expecting it to be just one of those "waste-timer" in which I take it on a 
 long road trip or played when I had nothing else to do. However, I love this game. Why:
  
  It has a great story line which keeps you hooked for hours. I like the fact that you can choose 
 what to say at certain situations (like being nice to Ashley Williams -- the human female soldier -- so 
 you can "have fun" with her later) , or pick a fight by smartin' off or saying something stupid 
 like, "Charge!" Oh, and one of my favorite parts: I slapped a reporter who got annoying while interviewing 
 me. It was hilarious! 'Course, I got reprimanded afterwards, but who cares? I'm a Spectre!
  
  The gameplay itself isn't bad either. The controls take a little bit of time getting used to 
 on PC (or maybe it was just me since this is my first shooter on PC) . Great graphics help with 
 game play too on long shots with a sniper rifle. You can switch between weapons and use abilities 
 rather quickly or you can pause the game and do the same, it's up to you.
  
  This is a third person shooter that allows you to level up, gain better weapons/armor, do numerous 
 side quests, and even choose your characters person history. I thought of it as a mixture between 
 Halo and Final Fantasy. 
  
  This was my first RPG/Shooter and I have to say, that I really enjoyed it. I'm about to start my 
 second playthrough. I do have a few complaints though: I wish there were different characters you 
 could have join you (like saying no to Gassus to pick up a better alien later on) . Also, I wish 
 the main quest was longer and to take away some of the side quests. They can be annoying. All those 
 planets and you can only land on certain ones, that's just not right. You should be able to do 
 missions/fighting on every planet.
  
  Overall, a great game with a great story. Defiantly go out and buy this if you like shooters and 
 rpgs.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: trjc
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 24, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  From the very first RPG BioWare released, their approach has always been "story first; gameplay 
 second." They have even been quite arrogant about it at times, should anyone ever challenge their 
 design philosophy on their forums. Granted, they are their forums; however, they might actually 
 want to listen to their customers sometimes.
  
  On a high-end machine, this is a beautifully wrought game -- but, linear, linear, linear, linear, 
 linear gameplay. Their graphics engine has matured over time to produce beautiful settings for 
 their stories and high definition (large number of vertices) character representations with smooth 
 animations. That all comes at the expense of very narrow settings restricting player movement.
 
  
  The joy and excitement of exploration is lost; players are channeled in the directions they must 
 proceed as they move. BioWare has always excused this by stating that players have the option of 
 pursuing side-quests at any time. However, inevitably, players are left with the feeling that they 
 "are along for the ride"; the story is all that is important. Irrespective of what the player does, 
 the story will unravel in the same way. The player is nothing more than a couch potato watching 
 the show. Periodically, the player gets to kill things inbetween episodes of the show. If the player 
 fails to kill things, the player may always reload the game at the last saved point and try again. 
 The game won't change in any fashion; there will be no alternative path through the story; just 
 keep trying to kill things at each interlude until you succeed in killing everything that needs 
 to be killed at that stage of the story.
  
  And this is where the biggest problem in their game-design philosophy occurs: in key portions of 
 the story, it is impossible to save at intermediate stages of a fight. It is impossible to save 
 during the midst of long, drawn-out dialogs. There are cases where the long drawn-out dialog ends 
 in a fight where you have no chance to save the game between the dialog and the fight; breaks in 
 the middle with another long drawn-out dialog that ends in another fight; where you are again precluded 
 from saving; and in the process moves your avatar and party members to locations other than those 
 you had selected for tactical deployment. Poof! You're exposed, you're in a bad location in the 
 midst of the enemy, and MAY NOT EVEN KNOW WHERE YOU ARE AT RELATIVE TO YOUR SURROUNDINGS!
  
  Apparently, BioWare thinks that is okay. It is the story that is important, not the player's 
 enjoyment of the game, right?
  
  The graphics are excellent. The sound is excellent. The game controls and overall interface, while 
 taking some time to get used to, are quite good. The story is good -- for an RPG. Not plausible 
 enough to get suspension of belief, since many of the story arcs are ridiculously contrived, but 
 better than the stories in most computer RPG.
  
  So, everything is great -- except the gameplay is quite boring. Dialog, dialog, dialog... linear 
 movement and more linear movement... okay, now kill the baddies... more dialog, dialog, dialog... 
 rinse and repeat.
  
  Boring.
  
  If I wanted nothing BUT a story, I'd buy a dime-store novel. THAT is what BioWare refuses to understand 
 about its game-design philosophy. I want a game -- not a book.
  
  The biggest problem -- one that has existed in prior BioWare games -- game sequences filled with 
 cinematics and combat that you can't interrupt and save at intermediate steps. There is one long 
 sequence of cinematics and combat early in the game, and of course the end sequence. You can't 
 interrupt the sequence to save. The combat in these sequences is very difficult -- and you MUST 
 watch the cinematics over and over and over and over until you finally get LUCKY -- because luck 
 is what is takes to win these particular fights. In both of these fights, the opponent has what 
 is, in effect, an instant kill capability. You can be winning the fight through good strategy and 
 tactics and then "Poof!", your avatar -- which had full health, full shields, and full augmentation 
 to shields through the biotics -- suddenly dies instantly.
  
  It would have been EASY for BioWare to have an automatic save at some midpoint of these fights. 
 Instead, as they have done in the past, you must watch the cinematics again and again. Once is 
 enough; you can appreciate the beauty of the 3D graphics and choreographed sequences. Having to 
 live through it again and again? They cease to be appreciated and become an irritation...
  
  This was enough in itself to lower the review score by two full points. Players shouldn't have 
 to have "luck" to beat a segment of the game; there should be no "instant kill" mechanisms in the 
 game to create an artificial challenge. That's not challenge; it's just frustration. Add in the 
 forced repetitive viewing of the cinematic sequences and it becomes torture.
  
  I deducted another full point because of control and other issues. Quite noticeably, on a quad 
 core machine with 4GB memory and an NVIDIA 8800 GT graphics card, there are times when both keyboard 
 and mouse controls get "sluggish". Mouse-clicks and keypresses don't get processed -- probably 
 because of high graphic or sound processing requirements. The game will also periodically lock-up; 
 sound will continue playing, but the screen goes black.
  
  This engine is an evolution of BioWare's other engines and those same problems have occurred in 
 the past. Most likely, this is an engine problem dating from way back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hal9000c
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Great mix of RPG and shooter. I love shooters but not into the hack and slash gameplay of most 
 RPGs. But I do love how RPGs have realistic worlds you can explore at your own pace and a good 
 RPG has a story you can really lose yourself in. Mass Effect combines FPS gameplay with RPG type 
 of world with lots of characters. It lets you go wherever you want, meet whoever you want, fight 
 whatever battles you want. You also get a feeling of being in a real universe. This is my favorite 
 shooter of 2008 so far. It's not the best shooter as far as pure shooting gameplay, but it's good 
 enough on the gameplay and the immersive story and world put it over the top in my book. My only 
 complaint is the repetitive side missions. Once you've done a couple, you've done them all. There 
 are only a couple of designs for buildings and they get reused a lot. Once you know what kind of 
 building you're going into, you pretty much know what to expect. The main missions aren't repetitive 
 though. They're unique and well designed and they forward the plot well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Force_field
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  This beautiful game could be also described as a solid movie with a few playable interactions...
 
  There is so much to expect before you try it, even more if you read the reviews... but it leaves 
 much to be desired in "gameplay sector". It was made too simple, just like many other console "RPG's" 
 which are in fact much more watchable than playable.
  Mass effect has a nice story, very likable design and characters, almost unbelievable atmosphere... 
 and a hollow approach based mostly on some older titles. It was OBVIOUSLY inspired by several SF 
 movies, mostly by Star Wars saga, and it is using their key points to (re) sell the story. This 
 should be considered as a positive part in this whole story, but it was unfortunately ruined by 
 producing a movie-game hybrid which isn't good enough in any segment.
  One more time in my review i must say this: "enormous potential rarely becomes an excellent product"
 
  Mass effect HAD a great story and characters, but finished as "childish RPG wannabe" product...
 
  I must say that I have played most of the games made by BIOWARE and this one must remain pretty 
 low on that list... could've been much better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Are_You_Morbid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 6:49 am PT
Review:  When a friend recommended mass Effect I was a bit sceptical. I like 3rd person games and I liked 
 ST The Fallen greatly.
  So i got the game and wow!
  The starting screen is awesome. All science fiction fans must have appreciated the idea of the 
 interchanging screens when creating a new character (meaning the decryption error) .
  The customisation of the character appearance is excellent with many options on the looks.
  The 
 character classes are good as well and the element of RPG on the character development is great.
 
  The storyline is inspired. I really enjoyed it.
  All the gadget and the different option you get to do depending on the class is useful to drive 
 you play the game for a second or third time.
  Graphics are great, gameplay is well designed. Sounds and soundtrack are good for the genre.
 
  The game is great in total. I can't really spot anything that would discourage someone from playing 
 it. One of the best in the genre! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragosB23
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 17, 2008 5:33 am PT
Review:  It's like EA is trying to give a leson to the other game developers how to make a game. For Example 
 Mass Effect it's like Gothic but in future and you have a space shuttle and a team but teh game 
 it's the same. Mass Effect isn't the only game that has this "glitch"
  there are a few othere game that EA relesed in the last few years... or maybe it's just me 
  
 Mass Effect's story primarily falls within the space opera genre and explores themes such as space 
 colonization, intolerance, vigilantism, and artificial intelligence. The story, with its man-vs.-machine 
 elements, has drawn comparisons to both Fred Saberhagen's Berserker novels and Battlestar Galactica. 
 According to Casey Hudson, the project director at BioWare, Aliens, Blade Runner, Star Wars, and 
 Wrath of Khan all served as influences for the game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maniac600
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2008 3:33 am PT
Review:  I bought Mass Effect, knowing that because it was a Bioware game, it would most likely be worth 
 my time. I went home and installed the game on my laptop and began playing.
  
  The game was not only worth my time, but for the next two weeks, it took up all of my time. I absolutely 
 could not stop playing this game to save my life.
  
  Bioware truly has perfected the art of the RPG game with an excellent title, and I anxiously await 
 Mass Effect 2.
  
  In the game, you play as Commander Shepard, a Marine in the Alliance, a human military organization 
 founded on Earth, which has expanded since the discovery of advanced alien technology. 
  
  Pros:
  
  This game is long, the graphics are gorgeous, and the characters are unusual, creative, 
 and innovative. You get the chance to lead a band of mercenaries, commandos, and fantastic supernatural 
 wielding 'biotics' through the Milky Way galaxy, exploring uncharted worlds, blowing up slaver 
 compounds, and gunning down any fool who gets in your way.
  Similar to the KOTOR series, your character's actions will determine your alignment. However, the 
 two extremes, Paragon (good) and renegade (evil) , are placed on separate lines, instead of one 
 rising and falling meter. So you never lose either, you can only get more. Depending on whether 
 you play the game as a Renegade or Paragon, your actions will cause the planets you visit and the 
 people you meet to reach specific outcomes.
  
  Cons:
  There is one major issue with this game that seems to plague its credibility. Honestly, without 
 this problem, I have no doubt this game would have recieved a 10/10. During the game, there are 
 many, MANY planets you can visit. However, only a handful of the planets in the game have large, 
 multi-branch missions. Many of the planets you will be able to visit and explore will be terrestrial 
 planets, with little of interest other than a possible pirate HQ or a Side Quest location. You 
 navigate nearly every planet in a vehicle called the Mako. It is similar to an extremely agile 
 and powerful futuristic tank. While it is quite fun blasting enemies and ramping off hills in the 
 Mako, you cannot improve or change it in any way. 
  
  Other than these minor problems, the game certainly does not disappoint, and will certainly help 
 you waste a chunk of your time killing alien pirates, navigating infested scince facilities, or 
 exploring the wondrous citadel space station and interacting with the many people there. 
  
  Have fun playing, people.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mcwalen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 4:06 am PT
Review:  Thank goodness for Bioware. If I could get a job there I would jump at it. Creative, innovative, 
 intelligent and not even mentioning artistically brilliant. Bravo. This game is worth every penny. 
 Thank you guys for making my 2008 so much fun. Next time bring out the pc version sooner please! 
 Solid rpg, great graphics, brilliant voice acting, yes I know I sound like a fanboy. Been a great 
 time for games these past 6 months. Crysis, Bioshock, COD4 and now Mass Effect. RPG being my favorite, 
 the best came in last and made me excited about games again. Thank you Bioware. EA needs to give 
 you guys more money! 
  
  I am already thinking about my next character and how I am going t play this game again, and I 
 am not even halfway through yet. I wish there were more games of this quality and I think I think 
 if things keep going this way, movies will not be the most popular way of entertainment for long, 
 games like Mass Effect will change the way people have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mokz0r
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 1:47 am PT
Review:  So.
  Having played the two KOTOR's before this and absolutely enjoying their virtues while recognizing 
 their faults, I was excited to see what would come next from BioWare..
  
  The first contact were the reviews.. game of the year, 9/10, whatever, you've seen it.
  somewhere 
 along the reviews, you'd see key phrases like the ones you'd expect from KOTOR and the likes: deep 
 storyline and character development and involvement.. also heard about the sex possibility (hey, 
 should always count as a plus) .. so pretty excited, yeah. and sounded reasonable too.
  of course, in retrospect, the main plot involving a galacting confrontation between a human and 
 another guy seemed to simple, but hey, that's just the main story, right?
  
  well.. wrong. terribly.
  basically, the game is all flash. I finished it. I delved as much I 
 could, but it simply is that: flash and no substance.
  The problem is that the flash is quite good. I mean, I had never seen a game that was so.. theatrical, 
 almost movie-like, even. That certainly helped the ratings. A shame the movie sucks, really.
  The story is completely idiotic, the kind you'd expect from a sad sci-fi B-movie. A confrontation 
 between galactic civilizations and some unknown force.. and guess who's coming for the rescue.. 
 humanity! and better yet, the "hero" always acts like a tough guy. ALWAYS. nevermind good or evil 
 choices.
  but speaking of choices.. choices? Well, yeah, there are choices. But they choose them for you.. 
 you have a circle of choices, 3 on each side, and all the top choices are nice, the middle are 
 neutral and the ones in the bottom are evil. and no, it doesn't work. I felt constrained everytime, 
 cause I was already so used to picking always the choice on the top.
  dialogues are more or less good. they're something you would expect to see on Lost. and when I 
 say that, I mean that you can easily guess the next thing you're gonna say, cause it's REALLY predictable. 
 nevermind you're talking with aliens, AIs or whatever, everyone still acts and has the same values 
 as any american john doe.
  
  and what about the action? it's an action RPG, don't know if anyone said that before.. and well.. 
 it's average, at best. it wouldn't be so bad, if it wasn't affected by the RPG part. because there's 
 a bit of a problem there: wander a little from the story and.. you'll end up rich. INSANELY rich. 
 the kind of rich where credits and omni gel stop making sense. I was on veteran and didn't use 
 medi gel or grenades (i like to keep stocks high, even if it kills me) and in the beginning, it 
 was either difficult or very easy. shortly after, it turned to "pushover" mode.
  and i'm not even going to complain about the oversimplified combat system..
  
  but another 
 thing I will complain are the bugs: really, crashing 1 out of 10 loads is way too much. and in 
 the end, if any of my weapons overheated, you could forget about it. either reload, or never use 
 that weapon again. fortunately, you can beat the final boss with melee (did i mention difficulty 
 yet?) .
  
  
  so yeah. my favorite genre felt sodomized, by the developer that I thought would bring the much 
 needed revolution to it.
  and that's the only reason I would write a review this big. the years go by, and I still feel as 
 gullible as ever..
  
  and as a final note, of course I can't rate this negatively, a flashy game is still a game. enjoyable 
 sometimes, even. this rant is only about its potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goodman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  This is definitely the best looking action/adventure sci-fi game in HD game history..... I liked 
 practically everything...
  story, characters, universe, missions, visuals, voices, music....
  May because there isn`t very 
 much good games in sci-fi universes.. Hope Fallout 3 won`t be as bad as some are saying it would 
 be, I was a big fan of Fallout game, but of course time goes on and in HD gaming era the gamers 
 should have not only a good game-play, but also stunning visuals..
  One thing should be more interesting if it would be possible to play with other characters and 
 of course the limitation of only three companions was not a very good choice too...
  I hope to see more battles in future and not only on planets or space stations, but also in space 
 flying some fighters :) .
  Will be waiting for sequel
  Looking forward to see even better mixes of action and adventure and may be strategy and quests 
 in sci-fi universes....
  
  Thank you for good and interesting game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CingZack
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  At first it grabs you, then slows a little. The side quests are many, but can get a little repetitive. 
 But offer good XP and let you really get a feel for the characters, physics of the game, as well 
 as the state of the galaxy that the story unfolds in. The main story is very good. It has many 
 fast paced moments as well as deep, slower moving dialogues. The minute you dock at Noveria or 
 Feros, the real action begins. You start you see what Saren is trying to accomplish and you and 
 the protagonist, Shepard, try to figure out Saren's mindset and ture goal. You develop relationships 
 with all of your crew, human and non-human alike. Decision making is a huge part of the story. 
 Deciding what to say, where to go and what to do help develop Shepard throughout the length of 
 the story. The player develops a connection the the crew and inhabitants of the Attican Traverse 
 vicariously through Shepard and will feel the emotion from every decision. The last few hours of 
 the story where you are forced to make tougher and tougher decisions, and the story begins to reach 
 its climax, defiantly keeps you on the edge of your seat, and will make you want to experience 
 the thrill over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameGriffin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 6:18 am PT
Review:  The sidequests are what dragged it down. Especially those on ore/relic collections. It would have 
 been better if bigger credits are dinked in for other quests. It does help alot though, when you're 
 just starting out but still, too much time is wasted on those. One or two Citadel sidequests isn't 
 logical. For example, saving someone's sister who's undercover. But the way the PC goes about it 
 is rather stupid because it'll only put her in greater danger. BW needs to do more careful planning 
 otherwise the world they're attempting to build will end up comedic. The main quests are a little 
 short but enough to propel the story. I'd expect BW to do better for ME2. As it is, this flaw is 
 forgiveable in sight of the excellent dialogue, voice acting (especially for the female PC) , cinematics, 
 music and gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sklib
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is without a doubt the best non-multiplayer RPG since BioWare's own Knights of the 
 Old Republic. A phenomenal storyline and massive in-game universe allows players to immerse themselves 
 completely in a universe based upon our own. Playing this game makes you *want* to believe there 
 is an ancient Prothean artifact somewhere on Mars that will lead to alien civilizations and open 
 the door to an amazingly complex and captivating story of our galaxy. 
  
  The six classes (albeit there are three main ones, with the other three being hybrids of those 
 three) create the opportunity for numerous playthroughs with an entirely different gameplay for 
 each class. Perhaps the most astonishing feature is the ability to forge your character's own destiny 
 right from the get-go. Will your character, Commander Shepard, be a wise and just Qui-gon Jinn 
 or a ruthless and cunning Boba Fett? You make every decision throughout the game, whether it's 
 seeing if there's any chemistry between you and that hot alien chick or contemplating genocide. 
 Other games promise "open-ended" gameplay, but Mass Effect guarantees it.
  
  The fate of the galaxy is yours alone, and only YOU decide how you reach that end! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: om3ga_storm
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Ok i'll make this short.
  Mass Effect is an awesome game and a great RPG. Bioware has done it again. 
  
  The story is 
 unbelievable. I obviously dont want to spoil the details, but suffice to say it's well written. 
 Remember KOTOR's huge plot twist near the end? This game follows in its footsteps.
  
  The party members are once again a pleasure to play with. Each has its own characteristics that 
 make it stand out. This alone makes me want to replay the game multiple times. 
  
  The dialogue is great too. I like how you, the main character, has a voice now, even though it's 
 the same every time you play (different for each gender obvoiusly) .
  It brings the game to life more.
  
  The romance does not disappoint either, but i wished there 
 was more depth and wish it affected the story more like KOTOR. 
  
  The side quests are fun but like many have said, they're mostly unrelated to the main storyline 
 so some may find them dull. I liked them though, it gave me an excuse to explore Bioware's well 
 crafted space world.
  
  So finally, who would I recommend this to? Anyone that loves RPGs with great but not overwhelming 
 depth and fun dialogue/story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyrune18
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best game I've ever played. The graphics are awesome and the story is worked 
 out superbly. The story is compelling from the start and it will dazzle you with very unexpected 
 twists. It has over 50 hours worth of playtime in it and that's counting only one play-through. 
 I already played through the entire game twice and I'm still addicted to it. The characters are 
 very cool mainly because of the voice acting is so perfectly done. Furthermore, the RPG element 
 of the game makes it even more complete as a game. The creation of the main character and his/her 
 class is completely up to you (a soldier, a biotic specialist, a technician or any combination 
 of two) . In short the re-playability of this game is astronomically high. The good news is that 
 the creators of the game intend to make it a trilogy so its only a matter of time before the sequels 
 are released. I can't wait for Mass Effect 2 to release and until then I recommend everyone who 
 has even the slightest interest in gaming to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wrednajasobaka
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Knowing that this game was first released on a console I was weary of buying it. Consoles are not 
 the best platform for RPGs, since games on consoles seem to be "streamlined" a lot- an euphemism 
 for light on content. 
  
  Mass Effect fits this pattern... but still manages to pull it off. For me the most painful aspect 
 of the game was the plot- ever since Halo (or even before that) every sci-fi game just has to be 
 about saving world from aliens. It is fun first fifty times but after that you find yourself skipping 
 through plot advancing dialogues. Ok, I know that evil aliens are at it again so please stop talking 
 and let me shoot something. 
  
  My second biggest gripe is with the RPG element in this game- it's not too deep. Sure, you gain 
 experience and advance your skills but it doesn't seem to matter as much as in more hardcore RPG 
 games. What mattered more was the aim in my shooting and the power of the gun. Pretty much I finished 
 the game without problem playing it as third person shooter using only one ability- the one that 
 boosts power of the gun. For RPG this game is also too short- mere 27 or so hours. 
  
  I'm going to be brief about good things in this game since there are tens of reviews that cover 
 those. Graphics and sound were great. The main city in the game was pretty nicely done with many 
 quests to do, shops to buy weapons and etc. 
  
  Overall this is not a bad game but fans of RPG might expect little bit more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThanassisV
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 13, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  By playing this game, you get the idea of how it is to be a commander.
  You must choose the right choices,
  you must choose the right path.
  
  You have the most 
 IMPORTANT feature !
  "To play the game the way you want to play it" You can choose the type of character you want to 
 play.
  You can choose the order of the skills you want to train.
  You can choose the order of your missions.
  You can choose your teammates.
  You can choose 
 different answers in conversations that will affect the game and your statistics very much.
  And much more !! 
  
  The game has many weapon versions and ammunition so you can use them in 
 every situation.
  Of course an in game weapon customization system for you and your mates.
  Your teammates say comments about the situation you are in to help you get the feeling of the the 
 situation!
  
  The only bad thing is that the game has no multiplayer ! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: guruv
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 3:12 am PT
Review:  After being a casual gaming enthusiast, who has splurged money on the first 4MB graphics card in 
 1997 to the latest 1GB card by Radeon and purchasing a boat load of games, I can tell that I have 
 not had the chance to finish many a games. From Star Wars games (which I abandoned playing due 
 to travels) to the Oblivion which I abandoned after mucking around with cheats, I lacked the penchant 
 to play anything in its entirity. So how come I finished Mass Effect? I must give total credit 
 to the story. It was gripping, it was amazing and for the first time I refused to look for cheat 
 codes, guides or any material to help me plod through the exploration of the galaxy and to uncover 
 the Reaper plot. So after nearly a month of playing the game, in spurts and pieces, I finally reached 
 the point of ILOS campaign. After debating for a day or two as I somehow felt that this would be 
 it, I decided to boost my level to maximum allowed before I got to that campaign. And what an end 
 of a campaign it was. I was a Paragon of Virtue, I had more nearly 2 million in credits. I also 
 managed to rack up a couple of renegade points but they did not impact my overall outlook. I looked 
 good as Shepard and I was extremely satisfied at the end when I choose not to put my two-cents 
 for the council seat selection. In my opinion, jackass Udina was prudent in his actions and Anderson 
 was a hot head but decisive. A functional difference in leadership styles. If only there was a 
 middle ground. With my procuring a uber-powerful machine, I cranked up everything up the wazoo 
 and I was not disappointed. I got some cool images churned out by the game, smooth play without 
 any hitch and I was immersed in the story line enough for me to sometimes get my calculator to 
 subtract my XP points to figure out how much is needed for the next level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c0keisbettr3
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 10, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  The combination of rpg and 3rd person shooter could not have been done better. with the battle 
 being so dramatic, almost reminding me of gears of war, to the story being so compelling, i couldnt 
 help but fall in love with this game. also the replay value is off the charts, as no game i have 
 played comes close to this kind of customization. overall, mass effect will be scored a 9 by some 
 odd reason by critics, and people will try and point out flaws, but that doesnt mask the fact that 
 this game is an obvious 10. Nothing feels better than going through an entire conversation, being 
 as mean as you like, and then shooting the person down as they run away. that might be harsh, but 
 its what makes this game so fun. you can upgrade any weapon and armor in the game, with many different 
 ways to do so. ive already mentioned it, but this is the best story a game has ever had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baton69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  A lot of people say "if you liked kotor, you'll love thhis one", just like it's only to kotor fans, 
 NOPE it isn't. I TRIED to play kotor but just couldn't I found it too boring for some reason. But 
 this game... oh my it's different.
  
  You play as commander Shepard, an alliance military who you will decide the history of, earthborn, 
 spacer, ruthless... you decide. You can either choose an existing character John Shepard, which 
 will get you right into the action. Or you can make your own char, male or female, good or bad, 
 old or young... You can also choose between three main classes and mixes of them: Soldier: trained 
 in all weapons and heavy armor, Adept: Think force powers like force push and lift, only pistol 
 training and light armor, engineer: destroys the enemy weapons and shields, light armor and pistol, 
 vanguard: adept/soldier, sentinel: engineer/adept, infiltrator: engineer/soldier. You can also 
 change how your face looks with quite a lot of options, although don't expect to look like next 
 years top model...
  
  In game you will play a lot different depending on your class, soldiers are rather straight forward 
 shoot 'em up, but adepts and engineers will have to pause the game and issue orders to your squad 
 mates (whom to attack, which special ability to use and such, all this can be automated though) 
 but also use your own abilities in the best way possible.
  
  it has a good UI, which makes working with the powers and squad mates very easy and fun. The battles 
 can get very intense and hard, depending on your difficulty level, which makes it fun.
  
  The graphics are really good and despite some low resolution textures, the textures are really 
 top-notch and the special effects when using biotics (the adept abilities) are great. While speaking 
 the characters have good animations and along with very good voice acting it's a pleasure to listen 
 to the enormous amount of dialog in this game.
  
  The game will let you choose a squad of two teammates out of 6, you will probably start liking 
 your teammates (or dislike them if you have other opinions) and talking with them about their history 
 is really entertaining. 
  
  SPOILER WARNING!!!
  
  
  
  There are also love in this game, depending on your choices in dialogs with your squad mates, you 
 may get a little relationship with someone.
  
  
  
  END OF SPOILER!!!
  
  Now to the few bad parts... The game has a lot of sidequests and as I said before an enormous amount 
 of dialog, it also has this "good-bad" thing. All this will make you want to play through the game 
 again with another alignment and another class. Which is great the replayability is really huge 
 in this game. BUT... The side-quests are very repetetive, which is too bad, 'cause the main story 
 and main quest are truly marvellous.
  
  But Mass effect is no doubt in the top five of my favorite games. And along with a modded Oblivion 
 my number one RPG. (And no I haven't played baldurs gate or diablo, I can't play them with their 
 graphics, sorry for that :P)
  
  In short the gameplay is great, graphic is great and story is one of the best.
  
  Mass effect 
 is an experience you propably won't forget in a long time
  
  Thanks for reading this review, hope I didn't bore you :P
  
  /Baton69 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aswoo
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2008 11:43 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is essentially the spiritual successor of KOTOR, probably just without the LucasFilm 
 license. As for me, I loved KOTOR, so I'm currently very immersed in the game and can't seem to 
 get away from it. If you were expecting DOOM or Unreal Tournament, you will be rather disappointed, 
 as this is a definite RPG, rather than a first person action shooter.
  
  I'm rather surprised that Gamespot's evaluation neglected to make this clear. One would think that 
 anyone playing the game would see the similarities immediately. Were they asleep? Obviously, everyone 
 else noticed it.
  
  As for the story, it's well-written and well-performed. The voice acting is spot-on. The graphics 
 are well done with excellent detail. Essentially, it is everything I would expect of KOTOR 3. There 
 are tons of details, which shows you how much work they put into putting together the background. 
 This can also be a little too much, in my opinion. I really didn't need to read 50,000 Codex entries 
 talking about every race and its mothers. Fortunately, you can just skip this stuff, unless you 
 really have nothing better to do.
  
  This gets to my next point: After reading other people's reviews, I do agree that there are still 
 issues with the game. The graphics have a strange blur feature (for what?) . More notably, the elevator 
 sequences are inane. The game is much faster in regards to the action than KOTOR 2, making it less 
 turn-based and more of a real-time RPG. So it seems even more unexpected when you have to sit and 
 wait for 30 seconds whenever you are in an elevator. My guess is that it's their way of minimizing 
 loading screens. Either way, it's just dumb.
  
  Sometimes, there is just too much running around - but I guess that's what we do in RPG's...
 
  
  The side quests are interesting and a reasonable way to lengthen the game. However, landing on 
 uncharted planets and systematically scouring each planet for minerals and stuff can get old pretty 
 quickly, so I would space those out.
  
  All in all, however, the game is awesome. I haven't regretted this purchase at all and would definitely 
 buy a Mass Effect 2. Most definitely recommended and something I will surely play more than once 
 - at least until the next game catches my fancy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bolognat13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  I put off buying this game for so long because of the disappointing x360 review. If you find yourself 
 on the fence about buying this like I did then get off it and go buy this game now!!!
  
  The gamespot provided PC review of this game simply does not do it justice. The score is accurate 
 but what was written does not reflect that score. Think about it, almost every 9.0+ rated game 
 is worth buying and worth buying at full price. Here are my specific gripes with the reviews. They 
 say the combat may cause "frame rate to suffer on less than godly computers". I have a less than 
 godly computer and frame rate does not suffer for even an instant. If this is a problem on your 
 computer than simply turn down some of the graphics to meet your computer's needs. Let's be honest, 
 if you max the graphics and your frame rate suffers you probably aren't going to be surprised. 
 If this is the case you have probably become accustomed to playing games with features set to less 
 than 'VERY HIGH' resolution and you still love playing them, so why stop now?
  
  Combat in this game is incredible and VERY easy to learn. One of the reasons I'm giving this a 
 9.5 instead of a 10 is because there isn't enough combat. Don't get me wrong, you'll have plenty 
 to kill but the system is so innovative that you'll be begging for more. The story is compelling 
 and immersive. It becomes clear very early on that a second play through this game will provide 
 an entirely different feel than the first time through. Dialogue and story are an easy 10/10.
 
  
  The load times are a little annoying and the overwhelming 'training' info that is given to you 
 all at once and at the very beginning is a big downer at the start. 15 documents are available 
 and after reading about 5 you'll ask yourself if it's even worth it... the answer is yes. Read 
 the first few to get a sense of how to get around and then just start playing, you don't need to 
 read them all and they'll only make you second guess yourself.
  
  I can't stress this enough, dont' hesitate, buy the game! Amazing combat, incredible story, visually 
 stunning and best of all addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alpha-Gibbon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  The only thing cooler than a sequel in a great series is a sequel in a great series that carries 
 a completely different title. Nice trick.
  The design team pretty much the same as KotOR. The design is the same. The controls are the same.
 
  
  The main difference? Real-time combat. It's a lot more fun than KotOR. Oh, and let's not forget 
 that there are, of course, no Jedi. You can't be light-side or dark-side; instead, you are "Paragon" 
 or "Renegade". (squint)
  
  As you would expect, the dialog, story and voice-acting are all top-shelf. This makes this somewhat 
 derivative game worth playing.
  
  If you've played the previous games, don't worry about getting bored. The game is really short. 
 If you want to stretch it out, you can follow the side-quests which seem to comprise most of the 
 game's content, or at least its geography.
  
  The graphics are an improvement, but again very similar to KotOR. They try to obscure this fact 
 by adding a film grain and a bizarre blur effect.
  
  The combat is a lot of fun, but the difficulty of fights ranges from easy slap fight to punishing 
 Ike-Turner-style beatdown. The beatdowns are frustrating since they almost always follow a cinematic 
 you can't skip.
  
  The cinematics are just one of the many fun ways they try to stretch the game out by making you 
 wait. The most bizarre slowdown is riding the elevator. It goes like this: "Quick everyone! To 
 the elevator!!!" ... "So, how's your mom doing?... Great..." ... "You know this armor's kind of 
 a pain when you have to go... yeah..." ... "Ah boy..." "Okay! Everyone off the elevator!!!"
  
  That's not all the bad points of this game, but it's enough.
  
  I won't whip the dead horse 
 of driving the land rover. Yeah, it's lame but the fights are pretty easy when you're mounted, 
 so I didn't mind so much.
  
  All in all, though, this is a Bioware RPG so you're going to enjoy yourself. The story is well-written, 
 the quality and creativity are high. You can choose to be good or evil. It's all there, everything 
 you expect.
  
  My advice to those who purchase this game is to hit as many side quests as you can. This makes 
 the boss fights easier and will make the game seem more worth price of admission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beriadon
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 1:23 am PT
Review:  Seriously why is this game so highly rated? I don't understand. Even when just walking around the 
 game just seems off. Especially the shooting, wow, it feels like I'm playing a game made in 1999. 
 Comparing this to Crysis (just using it as and example) it just feels like a noobish game. It however 
 has some really cool things, like using your team mates to come in from the side and grenade the 
 enemy ect ect.
  
  However don't take this review to seriously because I only played it for about 1-2 hours. So maybe 
 I missed out on the part that makes this game worthy of a 9.0 rating.
  
  ----
  
  And I don't want to right a larger review... so bear with me. Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, 
 blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, 
 blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, 
 blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, 
 blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, 
 blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chronos_ss2
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2008 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Pros: The game starts with action from beginning to end and with a good number of quests for you 
 to accomplish and gain your level fast. The game has an intriguing story which I love the most 
 it makes you want to keep on playing, in a way Mass Effect lets you wonder how it would be like 
 if humans were to ever master space travel and colonize or Terra form other planets in years to 
 come. In the game you get to travel to many constellations and many other systems while solving 
 many quests around our Milky Way which is pretty cool for those of you who have a taste for science 
 :P. The overall game is amazing, the graphics are very good, weapons can be modified by adding 
 mods to it therefore increasing damage and adding other kinds of damage to them, armors can be 
 modified to via special mods which you can buy at the markets. This game rocks and I recommend 
 it to anyone; play it! , love it! , enjoy it!
  
  Cons: The only thing that I didn't like was that using special abilities meant pausing the game 
 in the middle of gunfights and only a single special ability can be button-mapped, and that leaves 
 most of your other hard-earned skills to waste away in the pop-up menu. : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solaskaze
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  The good:
  -Outstanding acting. For those who have enough brain cells to distinguish between actors just line 
 reading vs. those really playing the part ... most of the voice overs in this game are great.
 
  -An interesting story. Even the log line (text intro) was intriguing all on its own (the explanation 
 of the title of the game) . Not a novel story at all ... but what exactly is a novel sci-fi story 
 these days? This one borrows from the best, and integrates them well. Without giving anything away, 
 the only real flaw worth noting is that ... the key discovery (about 2/3 into the game) is really 
 never explained (story writing 101 cop out) : you just have to believe things happen the way they 
 do in the Galaxy "just because" 
  -Good music
  -A good mixture of total-panic fights (fun) ... as well as you-are-now-god fights (non-stop pummeling 
 of enemies) . ... depending on how you level, you may find yourself in a fight or two that are very 
 hard, some are way too easy (was that a boss that just got 3-shotted?) . In both cases, the game 
 is still fun (it would not be for the hard fights, without the auto-saves just before the fight)
 
  -OK graphics. Not super great, not bad.
  
  The bad:
  -This really is KOTOR game mechanics without any serious new features... no light sabers, but it's 
 really the same stuff redux.
  -load times/scripted transitions (can't be cancelled) , and, of all the game areas, the elevator 
 from the dock/bay to c-sec in the citidel are mind-numbingly slow
  -skills are not equal in power/use at all. I played all the way through with assault rifle vs. 
 sniper for example.... although sniper *feels* powerful (one shot kills) , it's pretty much useless, 
 in particular because a) it will not work close up (happens about 40% of the time) b) in key fights, 
 the enemy runs around in the distance like they are on crack ... which makes sniping difficult, 
 and c) the worst of all: pausing gameplay to issue instructions to your friends completely breaks 
 your sniper zoon/position. Since it takes a bit to set it up ... it cannot compare to assult rifle, 
 where you can pause/spin/run/do anything and just fire in the general right direction (with overkill 
 on) to kill enemies in the same time or better.
  In turn, shotgun is somewhat useless because it is so ineffective at far range and given that it 
 is rare you want an enemy near you (and your friends setup to go in charging with a shotgun ... 
 just don't/won't) . ... in short, assault/pistols are superior in every way.
  -auto-leveling is inappropriate (turn it off) . Example: at level 40+, the devoted engineer could 
 not decrypt some fun/interesting terminals at the end-game. max-ing decrypt is fairly cheap, and 
 easily done many levels before that ... i. e. auto-level tends to spread points, some across useless 
 skills
  -AI is a bit flaky... your friends sometimes won't move where instructed (they stand out in the 
 open and get pummeled when fighting) , and frequently become completely frozen in place ... only 
 running a far distance fixes it (they pop/teleport eventually) . This includes "movement" AI: AI 
 built into your own character that makes then auto-hide/cover behind obstacles (it doesn't always 
 work as expected, gumming up your aim or placement) .
  -while the voice acting is great, the "choice" text given to your character to make choices is 
 horrible:
  1) many of the choices are juvenile in their writing style
  2) the text doesn't match your characters actual response in many cases: so much so, ignoring the 
 text completely, and just choosing the top choice was more effective (for example) to get paragon 
 points, without losing anything of the story
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jin_Kazawa
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 7, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  An classic RPG. Yes, it's playable. But it got me bored to death after 3 hours of wondering around, 
 killing mobs, listening stupid people and choosing some answers. Wow, choosing answers. I'm impressed. 
 As for story... I'd rather not discuss it. It's like humans suck, but suddenly you are the missing 
 link to every crap that's happening. I didn't finished the game so I can't say is end stupid as 
 the boredom that got me after some time playing this game. 
  Graphics are good, lots of blurs and more blurs and flashing. I really don't understand why is 
 it so hyped? I didn't pay for this and if I did, I'd ask for refund. :D It can be compared to Hellgate 
 London (boring, repeatable) , except for the story part. Story is better here, but the game is still 
 boring. For me at least. Those who say it's superb or innovative or original have skipped some 
 major game titles in last 3-4 years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sw0rdsMan_00
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2008 1:31 am PT
Review:  When I first saw the trailer on Gamespot I said to myself: "Huh, I should try it to see how my 
 VGA adapter responds". As you can see I wasn't so impressed after watching the trailer, also reading 
 the plot. But from the moment I've actually started to play MASS EFFECT I was astonished! The way 
 you can customize your weapons, distribute the attributes points, the way it actually feels when 
 you're in a mission. Then when you take the command of Normandy (your ship) and you became a Spectre 
 the game reveals all it's power. What I liked the most was the way you can choose your destination 
 into universe  the way galaxies were made, the miscellaneous details of every planet from every 
 solar system from every galaxy. Each planet has its personal description! And to be honest there 
 are a lot!
  Another perfect aspect of this game is the ability to choose, because you now have much more responsibility 
 (as a Spectre) you get to choose more often. For example when you must give the Salarian captain 
 one member from your crew to attack the Geths along with Saren, you get to choose which one [by 
 the way I chose Kaidan, thus I've kept Ashley which to be honest, I almost have a crush on her] .
 
  And the cherry on the pie it's represented by the Prothean Archive. What a mind! The graphics, 
 the architecture with every single detail in it it's absolutely breath taking. 
  The gameplay it's not very difficult. If you are logic in every move you make, calculate the possibilities 
 on every step you make, you and your crew will be just fine. 
  Great story line, flawless characters design and animation. This game it even has a love scene 
 between MC  Sheppard (meaning YOU) and Ashley [here you can see her bottom. God that's awesome 
 ] . Superb graphics  environment, architecture, AI and awesome gameplay, even though it 
 has some little bugs (some weapons remains overheated) .
  Overall, MASS EFFECT it's a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dongalos
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 6, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  I was hooked as soon as the intro came on about finding some device on mars that allowed our civilization 
 to travel throughout space...
  
  Made by bioware, the same people that created the fun and immersive Knights of the Old Republic 
 games for Xbox and PC are back with this Unreal 3 Engine game...
  
  The game feels very familiar if you've played KOTOR ... instead of Jedi you have Spectar and there's 
 many other glimmering similarities to the level design and places you'll visit
  
  I think with the use of the Unreal 3 engine, the biggest improvement is this free flowing gamestyle 
 which is a hybrid of a first person shooter with RPG elements... You can move around and shoot and 
 duck for cover like you would in Gears of War or land rover style vehicles for some planets and 
 I like how later in the game you can travel to different worlds and acquire new crew members.... so 
 cool
  
  The characters are amazing, just like Knights of the old republic, you have the little dialogue 
 popup giving you choices what to say.... good or evil or middle...
  
  Good:
  ========
  + Great storyline, very interesting if you're into Sci-Fi games or if you enjoyed KOTOR
  + Great 
 characters and dialogue with them, I have a crush on the blue Alien Chick Liara
  + good graphics, not exactly ground breaking but pretty damn good
  
  
  Bad:
  ========
 
  - high system requirements for some people as its a new game
  - long load times at the start 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weirjf
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Bioware; the company that arguably gave us some of the best RPGs of all time has given us another 
 gem MASS EFFECT (to be referred to as 'ME' from now on) !
  
  You have to look at some of the bad reviews given to ME and ask "what do they want?" ME has outstanding 
 graphics, great environments and a beautifully written and original story. If you want more than 
 that maybe gaming isn't for you. This is an RPG not an FPS so any complaints about ammo and the 
 combat system are invalid... it is very, very well done!
  
  Graphics: 
  The environments are very well done and unique around the board. Most are a bit claustrophobic 
 but necessary to match the combat system. The driving environments with the Maco range from wide-open 
 spaces to marginally frustrating mountain environments. 
  
  Sound:
  Nice! Great sound effects and beautifully composed music.
  
  Story:
  Original to anyone that 
 doesn't read a lot of SciFi books and enjoys being a plot snob pointing out parallels in story 
 line to several other sources. Very well written and immersive. If they made this into a movie; 
 I would watch it TWICE!
  
  Game play:
  The non-combat environments can be a bit confusing at times but the map system they have is extremely 
 well-done to compensate. Communication with NPCs is outstanding with several tiers of information 
 and a lot of background information in their personal lives and race. As should be standard in 
 every RPG you have the choice of being the morale, patient person or the hot-headed immoral person 
 in nearly every quest. This will change how some quests are played-out and adds a lot of replay 
 value. You are also able to start over once you complete the story
  
  Combat is fun and engaging. You are able to seek cover behind obstacles and pop out to make well-placed 
 shots at your enemies. All items that you have equipped have options for mods (upgrades) from mods 
 that reduce heat (overheated weapons cannot fire until they cool completely) , accuracy and stability 
 (the size of the aiming reticule and how large it gets) , to ammo that does more damage to synthetics, 
 humanoids or even damage over time and special effects (fire, chemical, snowblind) . Depending on 
 what "class" you choose will determine how you act in combat with your 2 other companions.
  
  Overall:
  This is the best RPG I have played in recent memory. It is a great fusion of action 
 and RPG and it is the first game in a long time I have a difficult time putting down (yeah, it's 
 3:00am, but JUST ONE MORE QUEST) . This is a must-buy and the free downloadable content just adds 
 even more play value!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skulltrail
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 5, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Really good game when it comes to the innovative ideas behind the graphics and visual aspect of 
 the game. The missions were pretty hard and after a couple of tries I accomplished just about every 
 main mission. While playing the game, I ignored the secondary assignments since I really wanted 
 to stick to the storyline. 
  
  TEASER: Near the end of the game, you have to choose on who to send to battle in hopes that he/she 
 will keep the enemy away enough for you guys to escape and the nuke to explode taking down the 
 arch nemesis down with it. I chose the Ashley rather than Kaidan, since she had more chemistry 
 with Commander Sheppard. If you choose Ashley, you get some sexual pleasure after the mission while 
 on the ship. If you pick Kaidan, well I'm not sure what happens then since I doubt homosexually 
 was influenced in this game.
  
  To continue with my review, I skipped the secondary assignments not know how sudden the ending 
 was. (I won't say what happens) The game ends, and when you play again you are back to where you 
 last saved before the last mission. Problem is that you can't go back to explore the rest of the 
 planets unless you do it early on in the game.
  
  Overall, great game. If it were something like Oblivion where you can keep playing, exploring planets, 
 discovering rare minerals, pwning random aliens, it would be an amazing game, but since none of 
 that was implemented it was demoted a number. Believe it or not, this game is addictive. I couldn't 
 stop playing it with all the suspense, like when Wrex gets killed by a good guy. (it was about 
 3AM when I experienced) I couldn't wait to see what would happen next so I kept on playing until 
 around 9AM (where I fell asleep on the computer desk and died a couple dozen times...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: techno_beetle
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  I just finished my first play-through (about 50 hrs. logged) a few minutes ago, and I must say 
 I haven't been this excited about a game for a while. GTA IV was great and probably a better game 
 overall, but it didn't give me nearly the same sense of satisfaction. For some reason, this one 
 just clicked with me.
  
  The ending is by far my favorite part (GREAT finall battle) , followed closely by the sexual encounter 
 with an alien ;) ) ) ) ) ) ) Anyone else score with Liara? Funny thing is, I was actually trying to go 
 for Ashley (the human female, for those who haven't played) , so I was surprised when Liara (the 
 alien female) turned out to be the one I nailed. In retrospect, though, I think I prefer it this 
 way :)
  
  Can't wait for part 2; in the meanwhile, I think I'll be playing through once again (and that is 
 something that NEVER happens!) I was playing as an Earth-born paragon hero-type character, so this 
 time I think I'll go for a brooding space renegade with a dark past... Maybe a female? I wonder 
 if I can still have a romantic development with another female NPC...
  
  Hmmm...  
::::::

::::::
UserName: angry_tom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 12:54 am PT
Review:  Veteran of RPGs both of the MMO and single player variety, Bioware's Mass Effect pretty much instills 
 me with great hopes for the future of games. There is story, there is substance, there is brilliant 
 graphics and there is an abundance of sandbox fun.
  
  The lowdown on the graphics, at first I was skeptical seeing the recommended and minimum requirements 
 for this new space epic, I was a little worried about some lamely integrated grainy filter. But 
 man this baby plays nice! I do all my gaming on a thirteen hundred dollar laptop and Mass Effect 
 hasn't even tried to blue screen me. I have issues with alt-tabing and my resolution is only at 
 1280x760. Being as it was made to be played on a TV I wasn't too worried about the resolution giving 
 me problems. And yeah I can see the lines which border the face and the haircuts look like mops 
 made of pixels; however none of this takes away from the beautiful environments the look of the 
 alien races or the flow of action. Its a shame that there are no crazily interactive environmental 
 elements, but thats a little nit-picky.
  
  Jumping in to Mass Effect was one of the best descicions I've made this 2008, it plays like a choose-your-own-adventure 
 gone Battlestar Galactica. Plenty of opportunity to interact with characters and role play through 
 some great scenarios. The dynamics in the conversation system is one of my favorite parts of the 
 experience which is Mass Effect. Oh and the dialog! I'm just so glad I don't have to read everything 
 the characters say, hearing it is much better. But if reading is for you there is the Codex which 
 gets added to the more you explore- like a all-in-one encyclopedia to the game and the game world. 
 Standard shooter controls are fine.... the driving, well it ain't no Grand Turismo. The Mako handles 
 better than the Helicopters in flash point but worse than Twisted Metal III. I'm just glad you 
 don't have to drive around if you don't want to.
  
  The story is classic space-noir complete with racism, humor, stupid (but classy) sounding one-liners, 
 deception and of course ethics. You can crappy decisions or brown-nosey ones which determine how 
 the other characters react to yours and the choices you are given during dialog sequences. Not 
 to mention the ending of the game.
  
  And as for being a linear lame killer like RPGs of dem olden days, well you have an entire galaxy 
 to explore and side quests enough to choke a pig. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Essian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  If you know anything about RPG's, then you have heard the name Bioware at least once. It may have 
 been associated with Kotor or Jade Empire (which are both amazing RPG titles) , or you may have 
 just heard it in passign mention. Needless to say, with those two games under its belt, a lot was 
 expected of Mass Effect. I can say (rather gleefully) that it delivered, though with some noticeable 
 faults. There are several sections to this game to be reviewed, and each one with its own pros 
 and cons.
  
  Story: Its only fitting that with an RPG, I start with the story. First off, this game is fully 
 voice acted. You will never be required to read wall after wall of text to take in the full story. 
 That alone should instantly sell you on this game. However, if it doesnt, then I should tell that 
 this game is WELL voice acted. Meaning you wont get any "jill sandwich" worthy lines in this title 
 (and if you dont get that reference, then go buy the original resident evil and play it) . The story 
 also has several twists and turns which keeps it pretty interesting. Even better, you can effect 
 the story with your "paragon" or "renegade" choices. Each one is worth experiencing, which adds 
 replay to the game, but we'll get to that later. All you need to know, is that the story in Mass 
 Effect is good enough that you may play it again just to experience the twists and turns all over 
 again.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in Mass Effect is pretty damn good, but it isnt without faults. The combat 
 in the game plays like a first person shooter... with powers. You have a varied selection of guns 
 at your disposal, based on your class choice. The classes in this game are well-balanced. Each 
 one plays differently, and will require you to alter your strategy. If you play an Adept like a 
 Soldier, you will die a lot. So you can choose different classes based on your preference, and 
 thats a nice touch. There is also some great customizable options in the game. You have several 
 fields (and when I say several I dont just mean three or four, I mean like 7) which you can improve 
 that will make that field stronger. They range from Pistol skill to specific Biotic powers, to 
 specialized class advancement. How you spec your character will have a direct effect on how effective 
 your character is in combat, so make wise choices. Your team mates will also be able to grow, and 
 you can either set them to "auto-level up" or manual, based on if you want to fuss with them or 
 not.
  However, like I said the game isnt without faults. In the 360 version of the game, the cover system 
 doesnt always work as well as you might think, and you will be left running blindlly into cover, 
 only to find that you wont grapple with it quickly. Furthermore, the sprint function is easy to 
 screw up, since you run so fast and uncontrollably, that you will probably overshoot the cover, 
 or enemy, that you were trying to approach. The vehicle you use to traverse planets can also be 
 a little unruly as well. The squad commands on the 360 version are also not great, since you can 
 only give general blanket commands to your team, leaving little room for tactical placement. Notice 
 that the afforementioned faults are with the 360 version, as the PC version fixes most of these. 
 On a final note, the hacking game on the PC is a little better in my opinion.
  
  Graphics: The graphics on this game are pretty damn good, considering the scope of the world you 
 are playing in. There are numerous planets, lots of missions, tons of characters and the graphics 
 dont suffer because of it. I am honestly surprised that this game could fit on one 360 disk. The 
 game will suffer some graphical slowdowns and framerate issues during larger firefights and, for 
 some reason, elevator rides. However, the game still looks great, and the great look will help 
 to immerse you even further.
  
  Overall: Mass Effect is just a great RPG. It has a heartfelt and touching story, with many twists 
 and turns, as well as heart-pounding combat, some challenging (and at times, aggravating) boss 
 battles, and LOADS of replayability. If you dont play this game again just for the story, you may 
 well do it for the achievements, to try a new class, or be a paragon or renegade, depending on 
 which way you went in your first play through. All in all, its hard to find a better deal, especially 
 since nowadays, you can find a used copy for 30 bucks.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: william623
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2008 6:56 am PT
Review:  Nice!!! This game is nearly superb, storyline, graphic, weapon feature, enemies AI and much more, 
 Utopia!!! At the start storyline of this game, glad it wont miss to explain about the character 
 biodata, and also, the most important, the prothean technologies, the FTL travel gigantic machines, 
 MASS EFFECT. The weapon feature in good, but the in games prices, wow, not a cheap stuff. And the 
 upgrade too. The feature for teammate is not bad, no need to earn experience one by one. Now i already 
 downloading the Mass Effect patch, more mission and debug. I wish the mission can land on solar 
 system, not juz only land on moon, i more interested land earth and mars, I WANT. i wonder EA and 
 Bioware will launch mass effect expansion or not, cause it is hard to enjoy the game wif fully 
 feature for the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raiden492
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 6:08 am PT
Review:  What can you say about Mass Effect? Graphics: Beyond belief, environments: outstanding, storyline 
 and characters: next to reality. But far too many put this game down for its one flaw. EA's DRM 
 (Digital Rights Management) only allows you to install the game 3 times until you have to call 
 them up and go through the process of getting a new activation code. But the fact is, the people 
 that hate the game just for that have clearly never properly played it. 
  
  Now, onto the actual review....
  
  Mass Effect isn't your regular futuristic RPG, it goes above 
 and beyond the call of duty and gives you more than you could hope for. Yes, it goes down the familiar 
 "you are the only one to save the galaxy" path, but it does it in a very different way to all other 
 games. You are never alone, forced to become Mr. Hero and save the world, your faithful squad are 
 always right behind you all the way, and the thing about team mates that amazed me was: they can 
 actually help , they aren't empty-headed morons running around mocking you for spending all your 
 hard earned credits on wasted upgrades for them, they actually contribute heavily to all battles. 
 More than once the backup they provide has saved me.
  
  One things Mass Effect deserves a gold medal for is the voice acting. The lip syncing is better 
 than perfect, facial expressions really show the emotions of the characters and the facial detail 
 all adds up to a real feel of a true story. On every character, from yourself to ak-tak-bar the 
 alien who only tells you where the door to the next area is.
  
  I also want to talk about the combat in Mass Effect (on foot and in a vehicle) . There are 4 weapon 
 types: Pistol (usable by all classes) , assault rifle (only usable by soldiers) , shotguns (usable 
 by soldiers and vanguards) , and snipers (usable by soldiers and infiltrators) . All these weapons 
 have their advantages and disadvantages, but even the measly pistol can take down the toughest 
 of enemies at times. The combat is basic yet entertaining, relying mainly from moving from one 
 bit of cover to the next and occupationally popping out to pump a few shots into the enemy. This 
 may sound overly simple, but the twist to combat which makes it even better is biotic powers. Biotic 
 powers are the equivalent of spells in a classic RPG, but look so much cooler. The basic ones are 
 lift, allowing you to hold an enemy floating helplessly in the air for a short period of time, 
 push, which throws enemies within a certain radius into the floor and warp, which damages and enemies 
 for a certain amount of time. Vehicle combat is quite simple, and to be brutally honest, over easy, 
 as you can mow down most enemies in seconds or simply blow them to kingdom come. But I'm always 
 willing to drive around a death-mobile with the ability to jump into the air using jets.
  
  Next section that needs mentioning is character relationships. Mass Effect is renowned for its 
 moderate sex scene (and after seeing it, I can barely be called a 'sex' scene) . How you stand with 
 other characters isn't displayed, you just have to work it out from what they are saying to you. 
 There are 2 possible love interests as a male character, Ashley (human) and Liara (alien) , or as 
 a female there are the option of Kaidan (human) or Liara again (yes, you can be a lesbian if you 
 want) . But a warning to the people who find these things in games arousing (which if you do, you 
 clearly have a deranged polygon fetish) , its nothing special.
  
  Finally, I just want to say despite a few graphical glitches and common loading screens, Mass Effect 
 is divine RPG bliss, (with the PC version beating the 360 version, mainly due to graphics) , but 
 if your PC can handle it, I would highly advise buying it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meli55a
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  I have a lot of respect for Bioware and am I fan of all their games, especially the original KOTOR 
 (not so much for the Obsidian developed KOTOR2) . There has been much hype around Mass Effect and 
 I believe it delivered! Engaging storyline (as you would expect from Bioware) , fantastic voice-acting, 
 loved the romance options and it has high replay value. I was expecting the game play to be a lot 
 like KOTOR, but I found with Mass Effect, it was a longer learning curve for me to get the hang 
 of this game (especially combat) . Wouldn't hesitate recommending this game for any person who loves 
 playing Action RPG games!
  
  * Storyline/Dialogue
  * Freedom - You can do any of the sidequests/main quest in any order
  * Good romance options 
 (what can I say, I'm a chick!)
  * Bionics - Fun to use and effective!
  
  * Once you get the Spectre gear, the other types of weapons/armour you can get pales in comparison
 
  * The Mako - almost as bad as the warthog in Halo 1
  * I found it frustrating to watch lengthy cut-scenes right before a boss fight - especially when 
 you're having trouble trying to finish the thing off!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sentronentron
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 4:05 pm PT
Review:  I was never a person to play role-playing games at all. However I was with a friend who said it 
 was good, so I figured what the hell and I got it.
  
  It was nothing that I pictured it would be. It was far beyond my expectation, and I love everything 
 about it so far. It is engaging and somewhat free form. The only thing that I can say is that it 
 is highly engaging to the gamer, creative, and interactive. It is still one of my favorite games, 
 and one of the best game purchases that I have made to date. If you are looking for something different, 
 are in to first person shooters, it does not matter if you like role-playing games or not; it is 
 a must have for any collection. The hardware requirements for the game are a little demanding if 
 you want to see some of the true beauty of the game, but everything about it could keep even a 
 low-level system gamer happy!
  
  This game definitely lacks very little! Just shy of perfection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Artemios
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 1, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  At first glance it reminds me of BioWare's Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic. However, as I 
 played the game even more, the more I got hooked to it and the more familiar it felt, there where 
 certain aspects of the game that I could relate to from previous games. Storyline is original, 
 uniquely structured. The whole genre and experience I gain while playing Mass Effect is similar 
 to a cross breed of Halo & Knights of the Old republic. Let's not forget that both those games 
 where originally for the X-Box and X-Box 360 and then transferred to the PC. Games such as Mass 
 Effect should be played because the experience you gain from this sci-fi is as if you are watching 
 a movie in the theatre! It's THAT INTENSE! Graphic wise, well there are a few glitches here and 
 there, however it still contains that amazing look and futuristic theme! Game-play may seem a tad 
 bit different at first, however with an hour of experiencing it, you'll feel comfortable and familiar 
 with the keys. For the PC BioWare has also improved the saving points as well as the long loading 
 problems it firs had for the 360.
  Bottom line, don't miss out on this game! It's worth buying even if you haven't tried it before. 
 It's innovative and as fun as predicted.
  
  Just one word of advice: Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slonor
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 11:34 pm PT
Review:  This is basically your average X-Box game ported to the PC. The graphics are great and so is the 
 voice acting. The plot is also quite captivating. Unfortunately, it all ends there. The combat 
 is interesting at first, but gets repetitive fast. You don't have to pick up or collect ammunition. 
 Different ammo types are more like upgrades for your weapons rather than bullets that you have 
 to conserve for situations when you really need them. Items are also picked up automatically. There 
 are four categories of weapons: sniper rifle, machine gun, shotgun and pistol. The rifle and pistol 
 are accurate and slow, while the other two are notoriously inaccurate. Neither represents any realistic 
 weapon you might see in reality, and that's the gist of the game: just go through the missions 
 and keep yourself alive. No ammo conservation, no involved tactical decisions, and your teammates 
 are immortal. Just keep yourself alive by retreating from the stupid AI and you'll be fine.
  
  The game tries to give you an open-ended sense by providing you with the ability to do optional 
 missions (side quests) that span across many galaxies, but many of the missions are generic with 
 repetitive maps and facilities, objectives, etc... And the galaxies and subsections thereof just 
 make the game more difficult to navigate, since you will soon realize that most planets can, at 
 best, be "surveyed" (click a button and find one object) and described to you. Nothing else happens 
 on them. For instance, the Sol system (the one with Earth and Mars) has no planets on which you 
 can land and I don't think it even has many planets that can be surveyed. At most, you'll find 
 objects on which you can land in a given solar system. The rest are just there to give it a feeling 
 of depth.
  
  You have your own ship you can use to travel anywhere, but there simply isn't anywhere interesting 
 to go. Your teammates have different skills and actually participate in intelligent discussions 
 and commenting, but the tactical benefit of choosing one over the other is highly limited.
  
  Ultimately, the "tactical" combat, team selection, flying and conversations just help move 
 the plot along. It's not a game where you play for the combat and the plot is the icing on the 
 cake (such as in Fallout Tactics or Silent Storm) , but rather a game where the involving and interesting 
 plot is the only thing working to keep you from uninstalling it. Seriously, the combat gets boring 
 FAST!
  
  I actually had trouble rating the difficulty since the game is mostly easy and boring, with a few 
 scenes that are next to impossible to complete due to in part your inability to tactically influence 
 the battlers one way or another. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaguarpriest
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  This game really pulls you into game. The characters have depth and history. You almost have emotional 
 ties or dislikes towards the characters. Consequences are amazing and well thought out. The Dialogue 
 system is top notch and the choices can change the course of the game. 
  
  pros:
  Well thought out. Very good story, I can't wait for the sequel !!! Unforgettable to the likings 
 of great games such as System Shock and Dues Ex series. 
  Cinematics where outstanding with plenty of attention to detail. The dialogue of the characters 
 was at a level of proffesionalism that sets the bar high. Definate replay value.
  
  cons (Small, but evident) :
  At times the buildings and structures look like they came from the 
 same template. I understand though that level design with all that detail is not easy. Some of 
 the ships and buildings were exactly the same though in different parts of the galaxy. 
  Though everything was expensive you eventual reach a point of financial freedom. I ended up with 
 nearly 8 Million plus and bought only a few items. Infact one could finish the game with only the 
 items found though out the game withtout having to spend a dime. 
  
  
  Outsanding game worth replaying again. Not many games can do this. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zacho123456
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 10:08 pm PT
Review:  This is an outstanding game that so far still leaves me with the feeling that something is missing. 
 The story is good, the graphics are excellent, and the combat and gameplay is good but in my opinion 
 not outstanding. Maybe I was just expecting too much after all the glowing reviews.
  
  The only thing that I would change is that the game seems too much like a shooter and not enough 
 like a role playing game, which is what I expected it to be. I wish somehow the game could incorporate 
 a melee combat system as well as the shooter aspect. 
  
  Technically, everything in the game is great, that is graphics, voice acting, and music. The decryption 
 minigame for the PC is annoying, but it can be circumvented by using medigels to open containers. 
 The Mako driving sequences that many people complained about did not really cause me too much problem, 
 and I am terrible at driving games. 
  
  The game runs adequately on my lower/midrange system with an HD2600 pro graphics card, so it is 
 not technically too demanding. So far I have not had any lock-up or graphical glitches, which apparently 
 were quite prevalent in some cases. 
  
  In summary, definitely a game worth playing, however I wish they would design more RPGs for the 
 computer instead of giving us XBOX ports.
  
  By the way, I would agree with one of the reviewers here that there is too much running around 
 from place to place in order to advance the story.
  Give us more combat and less pathfinding!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jecstir
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 27, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  A true gem, and a must have! You will be blown away , after being mezmorized by its emmersive story-line. 
 This game is one of those that will make you want more and more. Sequel for sure. maybe not mass 
 effect 2, but another clone would be fun too. The game's rich, and i mean rich personality doesn't 
 even start to get old until you are a ways in. Non-repetitive character interaction seethes with 
 creativity. This makes the dialogs have a longer lifespan. 
  
  Being one of those shameful gamers that blows through titles and sometimes finds themselves just 
 clicking through dialogs towards the end after getting completely bored and just wanting action. 
 I feel like i want to save this game and go as slow as I can. This game will be unique for most, 
 in that gamers will actually want to explore every inch of every planet and talk to everyone they 
 can. The story line seems to evolve the more you explore instead of "okay here it is... go out 
 and farm for 200 hours."
  
  The HUD in this game is fun to play with, once you figure it out. I skipped the notion of trying 
 to play any tutorials and jumpped right in. It took about 4+ gameplay hours to master the controls, 
 but it was worth it. The game has a depth that cant be matched using the HUD system.
  
  just watched aliens (2) and noticed how impossible the stuff they are doing is due to advancements 
 in physics.... This game has sci-fi that you can believe, because it takes into account modern 
 physics to build fantasy...... plus i think i heard seth green in there somewhere with other famous 
 actors' voices? Meh, and i think the main character's voice is actually the voice from the main 
 character in Freelancer.
  
  It is freaking amazing, if the above text didnt let you in on that. Play this game, TOP 2 of 2008 
 any genre by any standards... 
  as for realistic and believable sci-fi #1... it is going to win some awards, so... 
  GET THIS 
 GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zanis
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 26, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  What did you expect?
  
  Let's not forget that we are talking about the guys who created Baldurs Gate and KoToR, and after 
 the ridiculous disappointment that KoToR 2 was some like me were wandering if someone would ever 
 make another instant classic, old school epic RPG, well fear not, cause Bioware did it again.
 
  
  Mass Effect is by far the best game since KoToR and is the only that can be compared to the BG 
 series, if you are a role player this is a must have.
  
  At first i thought that it would be impossible to actually do some space RPG better than KoToR, 
 but Mass Effect just surpassed my wildest dream, it manages to best KoToR on every aspect, with 
 impressive graphics and an epic storyline this game is a true testament that theres still hope 
 for the gaming industry.
  
  Although not enough to challenge the standing of its grandpa (BG series) Mass Effect is a instant 
 classic epic that has something for everyone, and if you are a true role player just prepare to 
 make a little room in your heart for this game.
  
  While still disappointed with Bioware for letting Obisidian kill KoToR series with the heinous 
 KoToR 2 and the uninspired and talentless NWN 2 i hope that with the recently merges and new deals 
 they do not forget who they are and keep doing what they do best, the most amazing RPG's ever made.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drkl0rd2000
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 2, 2008 6:39 am PT
Review:  I could comment on Graphics, story or sound but i will instead give my reasons for a score of 2.0
 
  
  The use of a brutal DRM protection scheme which requires you to have internet to activate the game 
 is a serious problem with this and some other titles. You have 3 activations this means you can 
 install and activate the game a total of 3 times. So for you Rig tweekers you will burn your 3 
 uses in a few days. There is only one way to get additional activation credits which is calling 
 and requesting it from EA, this can be a long and drawn out process taking, in some cases, weeks
 
  
  This feels more like you are paying a high price for a rental item that you eventually have to 
 return. Pay $50 use the product 3 times and well you get the picture, the ultimate in disposable 
 games. I have to warn users away from paying full price, I would recommend waiting until the price 
 falls to a dollar amount you can live with loosing...
  
  Heres a brutal FACT... when the Activation servers for this game are shut down you will NEVER be 
 able to play this game again... at that point the disk becomes a drink coaster. So for the gamers 
 out there who play old games from time to time you are best to avoid purchasing with the intent 
 of adding it to your long term game collection. This is a disposable game; nothing more ,nothing 
 less 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandomonk
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 26, 2008 12:00 am PT
Review:  Hold on a second. I have been here before. This seems very familiar.
  
  Expansive universe. Check.
  Characters that get added to your party. Check
  Good versus Evil. 
 Check.
  "Force" powers. Check.
  Endless house of dialog. Check
  
  Yes. I have been down this long road three times before and two and 1/2 times I have liked it.
 
  
  I was a Jedi... twice, and then some Asian hero the third time, and by that third time I was already 
 skipping dialog and beginning not to care.
  
  Yes, I played this game three times, oh the settings and locations are different, but the pacing 
 and general concept has been done, and by the same developer. Sure they do it well, but come on 
 guys... enough of the same trick. This game lasted a whole 20 minutes on my hard drive before I 
 was so uninterested and so bored with the endless and mundane dialog trees, that I could not wait 
 to get the bloody thing un-installed and up for sale on eBay. It only took about three rounds of 
 meeting people and starting the dialog ritual before I was pounding keys to skip through it. 
 
  
  That's not a good time.
  
  You play as a default guy or girl (or you can create your own image with a very robust character 
 creator) , like the other three, and then meander around cool locations talking to people, fighting 
 foes, gaining XP and gathering up tons of loot, um... like the prior three games! 
  
  At least with KOTOR I was really into the dialog choices and gathering the great Star Wars universe 
 loot and leveling up my character (s) here I spent about ten seconds in the update screen scratching 
 my head in frustration; I had no idea what was going on there... at all, and I had no desire to 
 find out. Oh, and your hero in Mass Effect has what basically amounts to special "force powers" 
 implemented with some mechanized limbs and such, huh? 
  
  I honestly cannot rate the whole game because I bailed so fast, but that might be a slight indication 
 that you can't package the same thing over and over again and call it different. If I was not familiar 
 with the KOTOR games and Jade Empire then this experience would have been fresh and interesting. 
 I just did not have the patience to wade through the thousands upon thousands of lines of dialog... 
 AGAIN.
  
  Fight.
  Talk.
  Fight.
  Talk.
  Repeat.
  
  The graphics are very not next gen good, but the shaders on the faces were blotchy and surprisingly 
 unpolished, call me silly but stuff like that kills a bit of the immersion for me. The game play, 
 for the half of a level that I played was a bit tactical and worked as a simple shooter.
  
  The game installed easily and without indecent on my system which is XP, but Vista users may/probably 
 will have issues.
  
  This game would be great for those uninitiated with KOTOR, good luck finding those who are not, 
 but if this is your first time with this Bioware product, I am almost hard pressed not to say, 
 skip it, buy KOTOR, then play Mass Effect
  
  - brandomonk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesusismyhomie
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 25, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  When I started playing the game, I thought, wow... I am not going to get into this game at all 
 and just toss it on my desk and never play it again. I was WRONG. The story is so compelling that 
 I wanted to play more and more to see where the story would go. 
  
  I talked to my bro about the game and he watched as I played. He imagined the game as a multimedia 
 masterpiece. ITS A FILM YOU GET TO CONTROL! It really looks like and sounds like a very good writer 
 for a script put this game into place. I cant stop talking about how the storyline holds up from 
 the beginning to end! and (Being very honest here (no spoilers dont worry) ) , I pretty much felt 
 like the game ended like a masterpiece. When the credits rolled up... yes... I applauded. I was 
 so happy to play this game. its not like some other games you end and say".... hmm... okay?.... 
 that was a waste...."
  
  NO WAY. The game warms your heart like any film I have ever seen.
  
  enough about the storyline. 
 I want to talk about gameplay.
  
  GAMEPLAY is FUN. period. Yes, it might be a little too easy to get through the levels, BUT its 
 still fun to use biotics and special talents. I must say, the AI level is pretty lame but you pretty 
 much do all the work any way.
  
  GRAPHICS are ARTISTIC. They aren't the "BEST" graphics like Crysis or Call of Duty 4, BUT they 
 really put enough effort to keep the gameplay and storyline going. Very good.
  
  
  If you are a die hard PC gamer (or any console gamer) I recommend this game 100%!!! NO DOUBT!!!
 
  
  
  I give it 10/10 on everything 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tinz
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 24, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  This game has an evil DRM (Digital Rights Management) . This game should be called "Mass Infect". 
 I fully expect that many reviewers here will change their ratings in the future when they discover 
 that after a few installs or hardware changes they can no longer play the game!
  
  If you buy this game, you are telling software houses that you don't mind paying full price to 
 rent a game. You are limited to only 3 installs with this game. What are you going to do when the 
 game will no longer run?
  
  Be a good little consumer and buy the latest games instead. Forget about the old ones, they are 
 old news. Now make sure you save harder because buying all these newer games is going to cost you 
 plenty once we have got you used to rent-ware!
  
  I love a good game and I'm sure Mass Effect has some great features. But I utterly reject the deliberate 
 tampering of a game to make it fail after a certain number of installations. PC games have always 
 been made to last a life-time and anything that changes that is no longer a PC Game, it's a rental. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xuerebx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  I had been interested in ME months before it came on the xbox. Then it finally came on the PC as 
 expected.
  
  [Gameplay]
  I love the combat, hiding behind objects, popping up and shooting. Upgrading your guns. Using your 
 biotics - that's well cool. Conversations are so real and in-depth. FIRST GAME I've ever listened 
 through all the conversations. Part of the fun is conversing and choosing your squad members.
 
  
  The races are very in depth too. Long back story behind them, which you can uncover and record 
 in your codex (kinda like a journal of information) .
  
  
  [Music/Voices]
  The music is nice, but the voices are stunning. They're emotional - professional like in a good 
 film.
  
  [Graphics]
  The graphics are stunning. Though you'd need a powerful computer to play on high settings. I myself 
 put textures and particles on high, and have motion blur and film grain on. I CAN'T play without 
 film grain on, it's just makes it much more atmospheric. And all I've got is an x1950 PRO, 2.8Ghz 
 P4, and 1 GB of RAM. I can play at 20FPS, though it slows down at the Citadel, not a problem for 
 me, could be a problem for others, so lower down the graphics. 
  
  Also, search for the Mass Effect INI tweaks on tweakguides. com , it helped TREMENDOUSLY.
  
 
  [OVERALL]
  Overall, it's a game you SHOULD NOT miss out, it's story is very well written, there is a book 
 on the game's story too, and more coming out (2 more) . I'd give this a 9.5
  
  There are some downsides, mostly technical and some about gameplay, but no game is perfect.
  
 
  The only thing bugging me is that the patch and FREE downloadable content hasn't arrived yet, we 
 just have to wait some more.
  
  
  PS: Play the game on the highest difficulty you can when you get the game, because it's kinda easy. 
 More dificulties will be unlocked after you play through the game at least once. Replay value is 
 massive by the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Threatz_Pimp
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 24, 2008 12:17 am PT
Review:  Great sense of immersion I felt like a novel was unfolding before my eyes throughout the entire 
 game. The epic music only contributed to an overwhelming story that drew you in to the point that 
 you were gripping a mouse like it was a soft warm breast that was saying abuse me. I couldn't stop 
 playing at times. The ol' lady beckoned me from the warm sheets of my bed and i could only mutter 
 something like in a minute.... I love this game and if your a sci-fi fan and love a great story 
 check this game out you won't be disappointed plus I built a pc that plays Crysis the new benchmark 
 of godly pc's... at 30-35fps and only cost me 750$. This consisted of XFX 680i LT SLi mobo with 
 Intel Q6700 Quad Core CPU, and 2 Gigs of OCZ SLi DDR2 800Mhz Ram = 399$ + Nvidia 260 FTW GPU 299$ 
 + NeoPower 550 SLi PSU 69.99 and a cheap case ..... cheap as you can "use that old case that's 
 in your parents office from 1996 it will blow all your friend wigs when you start pumpin out that 
 previously stated frame rate on crysis trust me.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2008 10:51 pm PT
Review:  I always dream of space; of what's out there. Surely, there's somebody else out there. We can't possibly 
 be the only living things in the Universe. But our technology advances fast,& if somebody doesn't 
 get to us soon, maybe we'll get to them. That's what happened in Mass Effect.
  Well, in year 2148, humanity has descovered on Mars a constuction of alien origin. After numerous 
 studies, it was discovered that it was in fact built by the Protheans, an extinct race which disappeared 
 over 50000 years ago.8 years after, in 2156, the humans discover the Mass Relay, which allows them 
 to travel faster than with the speed of light, permitting them to explore space. Well, in 2157, the 
 humans discover another civilisation on a planet, the Turians,& almost start a war with them. The 
 war is prevented by the Galactic Council on the Citadel. In 2165, the humans manage to get permission 
 to estamblish an Embassy on the Citadel, their power growing. Thing is, you can find all info you 
 want about the solar  ;basically everything, from the Galactic 
 Codex, a very interesting addition in the game, in which I've spent entire hours.
  Thing is, the action starts about 20 years after the last events, where you're sent to prevent a 
 geth attack & investigate a strange artefact discovered on a planet. Firstly you'll have to build 
 your character,& you'll have lots of options to choose from. You can also determine your past, where 
 you were born, how you ended up travelling in space,& you can also choose your class & specialization. They're 
 different from each other,& I must tell you that this game has a huge replay value.
  
  
  Graphics:10/10
  
  Not too much to say about the graphics, because really, the game as a whole 
 draws all attention to it, so you'd ignore the graphics. If I really have to tell you something about 
 the graphics, I will have to use only one word: excellent. They couldn't have been better. The interiors 
 look awesome, KotOR like, but much much better. The exteriors look even better, very detailed & well 
 animated, with the perfect cromatic combinations, & a really great draw distance detail. But the 
 characters simply look perfect. Yeah, not only the face/cloathes details are awesome, but the animations 
 & lip-sync are so great that you'll really feel that the characters are real. But about the characters 
 I'll tell you a bit later. As a conclusion for the graphics, they are the perfect choice for this 
 game. I heard the engine is Unreal Engine 3. I would never have said that, but now that I know it, it 
 really seems to make sense. Just to know; it's no Crysis or Lost Via Domus, but it looks definitely 
 better than Gears of War. The only things that I didn't like, graphically speaking, were the motion 
 blur & the film grain. I usually like motion blur, I consider it to be a "delicious" effect, but the 
 one in Mass Effect is really exagerated. When you move you can't distinguish anything,& when you 
 stay put, there still is some motion blur. Geez, motion refers to moving, so how the hell can it be 
 motion if it's not moving?! The film grain would have been more apropriate to a bad SF film from 
 the '50s ,not in Mass Effect. Well except these two things I really can't complain at all about 
 the graphics in Mass Effect.
  
  Sound:10/10
  
  The sound in Mass Effect is once again, perfect. I've been looking for a long time for the perfect 
 sound, the sound with nothing bad at all. I thought I've seen it in The Godfather, then Bioshock, 
 but the real one was Mass Effect's. What does that mean? It means Mass Effect has the best voice 
 acting (surprisingly, no use of famous actors, such as in The Godfather) ,the most appropriate music 
 for a SF (& really touching sometimes) without the use of famous songs, as in Bioshock,& really 
 the coolest sound effects to be used in a SF game. To start all over again, all the characters in 
 Mass Effect are greatly interpretated by the actors, resulting in the best voice acting in a game. They 
 really seem to be there, to be implicated in the action taking place there, to be affected by everything 
 that's happening. They are not sounding like robots, like bored people who want to finish recording 
 their lines before the baseball match starts. No, the actors really put their best into the recordings, they 
 put heart & emotions in what they are saying, & this is very rare nowdays. I have to firmly congratulate 
 them. The music is the best that SF has to offer. No Star Wars themes fortunatelly, the music is really 
 well fit. You may just ignore its presence sometimes because it's just one of the factors that contributes 
 to the perfect futuristic SF atmosphere, which you'll feel as a whole, not in small parts. But you 
 will actually hear it in the key moments of the game, when it gets more intene, impressive, touching 
 really. Believe me, I know what I'm saying. Next, the explosions/gun shots/all other sound effects 
 are done brialliantly. Nothing bad to say here, so let's move on.
  
  Gameplay:10/10
  
  To describe the gameplay in a few words, I'd say it is a mix between Star Wars Knights of the Old 
 Republic & Gears of War. It's obviously that almost everything looks like an improved version of 
 Knights of the Old Republic: the menus, the statistics, the interface, the skill tree/level advancement 
 ;basically everything. Well Bioware also made the first Knight of the Old Republic, so the ressemblance 
 is self-explanatory. Now the combat is planned exactly like in Gears of War: it's real-time, the cover 
 system functions great & why not, it's very intense. Maybe not as intense as in Gears itself, but 
 hey, Mass Effect ain't just a third person shooter. But we'll discuss about the blend later, now 
 let's take it from the beggining.
  The first thing you'll have to do is complete that recon mission I spoke about in the beggining. This 
 will be the typical start of the fighting missions, interrupted by some short dialogues & some decisions 
 to take. You'll have some geth to shoot,& that is a very cool thing to do. With two other teammates 
 following you (exactly as in KotOR & Jade Empire, they fight alongside you & level up when you do) , you 
 can turn Mass Effect into a tactical shooter by giving your mates orders like attack that enemy, take 
 cover there, throw a gredade or use that special ability. It's a very cool aspect of the game, but 
 it's not really necessary on the lower difficulty levels. But shooting is not an optional thing 
 & you'll certainly need it. As I said before you can take cover & try to shoot the enemy from there 
 but that again depends on the difficulty level. If you're playing on easy the enemy will come forwards 
 to you in a straight line, so you won't need to take cover. On the higher difficulty levels though, the 
 enemy will try to take cover himself, or flank you; in those situations cover for you & your squad 
 is a must-have. You'll also have a bunch of special abilities depending on your class & specialization, 
 such as Overkill (better aiming with increased damage) ,the ability to temporary disable the enemy's 
 shields or to instantly heal your companions if they've fallen down. But I can point you a bad thing 
 here: in KotOR, when your main character was defeated & fell down you could take control of one 
 of the other two characters in your party; actually, you could play as the other characters trough 
 the whole game. Unfortunatelly, you can't do that in Mass Effect: you'll be stuck with your character 
 trough the whole game & if some companions fall during fight you can ressurect them but if you 
 fall, game over. That's not too bright.
  As for the weapons, they're divided into 5 cathegories: pistols, assault rifles ,shotguns ,sniper 
 rifles & grenades. Each of these cathegories has a skill bar for every character & their weapons. There 
 are a lot of weapons corresponding to the cathegories & each weapon has some upgrade slots: better 
 ammunition or just add-ons that result in better accuracy, more damage to certain types of enemy, etc. To 
 make things easier, the game's interface will sort the objects in the inventory for us, so that the 
 best ones will always be the first & easiest to select. Oh, I forgot, all these things I said apply 
 to armor as well. Now let's go again for a not-so-good thing: weapons overheat. Quite quickly. I dunno 
 if the weapons 150 years from now will overheat or not, but in Mass Effect you fire two shotgun 
 rounds & it's already overheated. This is where an ugly bug comes in: sometimes the overheated weapons 
 will not de-overheat & will remain unusable. And believe me, it ain't nice to go trough an area crawling 
 with enemies only with your pistol.
  OK, so that concludes fighting & inventory, so now let's speak about the quests. It's true that man 
 yof them will always get you too shooting someone or blowing something up, but that doesn't go for 
 all of them. In some you'll have to use your persuade or intimidate skills in order to convince 
 some persons to act right. Now here's where your orientation comes in; as in Knights of the Old 
 Republic there seem to be two sides, but not really seen as good & evil, cause that really got lame 
 by now. No, in Mass Effect you can either be the nice guy who wants to help all people who need 
 it ,called Paragon ,or the cold-hearted one who does everything to accomplish his goals, even if 
 that means murdering innocents, Renegade. While acting as a Renegade
  you may do quest faster & easier, Paragon always brings you more satisfaction,& also allows you 
 to enter Mass Effect's universe better & know all the characters much better. The good thing is 
 that there isn't only a single bar showing the alignment: there are two. Because, even if you're a 
 Paragon, you may act as a Renegade in some situations. Okay, now going back to the quests, there are 
 also some quests that require pathfinding skills in order to find some objects or characters. There 
 are no stealh-base ones, but that would have ment a stealh-engine,& I don't know how that would 
 have ended up. Nevertheless, whatever you do in Mass Effect, you'll talk a lot. Yeah, the dialogues 
 with the other characters are maybe the best part in the game. Not only because of the terrific 
 voice acting but also thanks to the very wisely written lines & very cinematic look of the dialogues. I 
 mean, the characters won't just stay there looking to each other while talking; they'll move from 
 one place to another, gesticulate... in a word, they really seem like speaking & directly implicating 
 themselves in what they're saying, both audio & vissualy. Yeah, in these moments you won't feel like 
 playing a game (the only thing you'll have to do is selecting the dialogue lines) ; you'll really 
 feel like watching a movie. A really great one indeed.
  Now at a certain point in the game, you'll be let to explore the galaxy as you wish. You'll be given 
 acces to the Galactic Map, from where you can navigate trough the different solar systems. Thing 
 is, there are a lot of clusters & nebulas, each containing one or more solar systems,& each solar 
 system containing a lot of planets. In alll, there are certainly over 200 planets, with their own 
 attributes: specific orbit duration, gravity, day lenght, temperature, population (if existent) & a 
 lot of other things. Some of these planets may be colonies or uncolonized & uncharted. Well it's 
 a very cool thing that you can explore & chart these planets. You land on them with your special 
 jeep, explore part of their surface & maybe you can find something interesting: some rare minerals, resources 
 that can be gathered or artifacts. And you may encounter a couple of people in your adventure who 
 would like to know about such facts. Of course, the local inhabitants, be it huge sandworms or just 
 monkeys or strange jellyfish, may not ignore you totally. Not once have I found myself in an epic 
 battle against some upset sandworms or running after a naughty monkey who stole an important datapad. You 
 might also encounter pirate bases in the most unexpected places,& somebody might repay you hansomely 
 if you destroy the base & kill them. In a word, the galaxy is a very very big place & you have a 
 huge number of things to do & worlds to explore.
  You might also like decrypting. It's done by a fun minigame that is a good addition to the gameplay. By 
 decrtypting or hacking you might be lucky enough to recover some great equipment or some Codex 
 entries.
  
  
  Storyline:10/10
  
  What's this Galactic Codex? It's a kind of Encyclopedia regarding the Mass Effect universe. Many 
 of you will ignore it, but that's a very stupid thing to do. I highly recommand you to read it (or 
 listen to it being read) , because this way you'll get to know everything about the history of the 
 galaxy, the races, planets, politics... a lot of things you'll love to know & that may come in handy 
 at a certain point in the game. All put together, the Mass Effect universe is new, but very intelligently 
 done, so that it comes better than the Star Wars universe at some points. And that's trully incredible. I 
 can't wait to see it in another game (ummm, Mass Effect 2) , but there are also two books available 
 that take place in the same universe: one being a prequel to Mass Effect, the other one a sequel 
 & a prequel to Mass Effect 2. So till it comes out, you'll have more than enough time to read them 
 both.
  I told you what you should know about Mass Effect's storyline, so I won't say it again. So to conclude 
 this as well, Mass Effect is set in an excellent universe & also benefits from an awesome storyline, strong 
 characters & not only. Thing is, you'll make the storyline, based on your decisions. Not exactly as 
 in the Witcher, but more that KotOR did. The other characters are so greatly created that you'll 
 feel very close to them (speaking of your friends) . The moment when you're forced to let one behind 
 to sacrifice himself is trully epic & you'll nearly cry then. And I think that says a lot of things 
 about this game.
  
  Overall Impression:10/10
  
  I've waited a lot for Mass Effect to come out for the PC,& I was convinced that it will be an awesome 
 game. But it really excedeed my expectations: it's better than you can possibly imagine. Some people 
 say it's not as good as some classic SF RPG-s, or that it is made up with a lot of clichees. Don't 
 believe them. I played most SF role-playing games, classic or not,& Mass Effect smokes them all. Mass 
 Effect is the best game in the last 6 years & I think that says it all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SacrificiaLamb
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 22, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  Another shooter/action-RPG, which ends up unsatisfying in both departments.
  
  ME's two strongest points are its graphics and story. The plot and characters, while well-written, 
 are oh-so predictable if you've ever played any previous Bioware games. It basically boils down 
 to another good vs. evil race to save the universe. I was never surprised by the story, not that 
 the writers made a big effort to include any twists or unexpected events. 
  
  The graphics are really hard to fault - except for a few odd proportions on some of the models, 
 most notably the hands, which were way too small. The faces looked excellent for the most part 
 (with much help from Facegen, or a similar app) ; the main characters showing nice detail and structure, 
 with secondary characters showing considerably less attention. Character creation was well-implemented, 
 allowing you to put a face together by selecting different eyes, ears, noses, shapes and sizes, 
 etc. Most of them fall into the shadier side of ugly, but whatever. 
  
  There is a lot of dialogue in this game, but it tends to be very one-sided and long-winded. Most 
 of the time, it also leads to the same conclusion no matter which path you take. Sometimes the 
 character even says the exact same line for theoretically different response choices. Any differences 
 in consequence, if there are any at all, are largely superficial. There are a few cases, like Feros, 
 where you get to decide the fate of a colony, whether the colonists live or die, but it has no 
 impact on the main plot. On the first play-through, at least, the cutscenes and dialogue are unskippable, 
 which gets old when you have to reload and listen to the same dragging speech for the 2nd, 3rd, 
 or more time. Technically well-written, but often too dry for my taste.
  
  The renegade/paragon thing is the same as light/dark side from KotOR, except that it's more about 
 good cop/bad cop than saint/bloodthirsty maniac. In the end, all it allows you to do is unlock 
 higher levels of charm/intimidate, which give you more dialogue options leading to more money, 
 XP, or paragon/renegade points. At least in KotOR, being a light/dark side master gave you stat 
 bonuses and improved force powers.
  
  The voice-overs were mostly quality, Keith David being the high point, Seth Green probably being 
 the low point. The female lead does an excellent job, but the male lead is uninspired to say the 
 least.
  
  To put it nicely, the level design is horrid, even in the main quest locations. Corridors, corridors, 
 corridors, even when you're outside. You're always running (getting pushed) down a chute with very 
 little room to deviate off the straight-and-narrow, other than uncharted worlds (UCWs) which have 
 their own problems. Side quest locations all look the same, with some very minor variations. Metal 
 boxes everywhere, stacked 2, 3, 4 high, any size, we got 'em all. Elevators, too. At least on the 
 PC version it loads much faster, making it a tolerable 15-20 seconds instead of 2+ minutes. Overall, 
 the environments are pretty lifeless, sterile. NPCs either stand or sit in the same place or do 
 simple A-to-B walks. No activity or illusion of life. It's no Gothic or The Witcher in that regard. 
 
  
  The AI? Not so good, but thankfully the enemy AI is as bad as the friendly AI. Combat usually turns 
 into chaos with characters running up point blank into someone's face or taking a cover position 
 as an enemy comes from behind and shoots them while they stand there stuck against cover, doing 
 nothing. The cover system works OK for the player, but the AI just can't seem to figure out how 
 it works. Your teammates aren't much help, so you'll end up making at least 80% of the kills. Teammates 
 with good biotics are probably the least useless of the bunch. And of course, when they go down 
 in combat, they'll get right back up good as new after it's over, removing what little remaining 
 sense of danger there is from combat. Oh yes, and auto-aim, which could only be set to low, and 
 not off. Combat was lackluster. For some reason, teammates are unable to open doors themselves, 
 which I found a nuisance more than a few times.
  
  The weapons and armor look nice, but there is no variation other than texture for each given type. 
 Light armors all use the same model/mesh, and all the mediums use the same mesh, and so on. The 
 only thing that changes is the skin. The same goes for weapons. Armor and weapons level as your 
 character levels, so you'll never find a Katana VII at level 10 or somesuch.
  
  The vehicle driving isn't as bad as some make it out to be, though the Mako does handle like a 
 helium-filled marshmallow. 
  
  The explorable uncharted worlds quests are truly bleak. It's the same formula every time - land 
 in Mako, drive for 5 minutes over the same boring mountainous terrain, enter building, kill enemies, 
 talk to objective NPC, go back to ship. Sometimes it's talk then kill and that's about it. Sure, 
 you can explore as much as you want (to the map's boundaries) , but it all looks the same with only 
 a few anomalies and deposits scattered around.
  
  The Codex is a complete waste of time, in my opinion. I looked at it twice and never bothered again. 
 I couldn't care less about the history of xyz unless it directly pertains to the advancement of 
 the story, and if that's the case it should be presented through relevant dialogue or situations. 
 If I were interested, I'd still rather read it silently, which I can do much faster, than have 
 someone speak it. I didn't care that much about my teammates' backstories either, but you need 
 to do it if you want to unlock their quests, which were no different from the UCW sidequests, very 
 short and uninteresting.
  
  When I finished ME, I was left feeling that not much had happened, kind of an empty experience, 
 like bubblegum. The best indicator is the fact that I had less than zero interest in playing through 
 it a second time. Lightweight stuff, with plenty of padded edges and guiding hands so that the 
 player doesn't hurt or strain himself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightLike
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  OVERVIEW-
  Appon purchase of this game i was slightly skeptical it may not be as entertaining as idd like. 
 But it was a very entertaining game just have to give it a chance. Below you'll notice a lot of 
 text, i divided it up for easy information gathering. Hope it helps!
  
  
  PROS-
  (1) Its one of the only 3rd person shooter games Iv ever enjoy. Take note on that.
  (2) It has 
 an amazing storyline, blend togeather with awesome worlds in a galaxy of wonders to explore. Iv 
 beat the game and iv still only seen a 3rd of it.
  (3) The 3rd person support for gun slinging is really nice and satisfactory. And it edges with 
 the sniper like a baby back rip goes on a grill.
  (4) It has a great opening scene that draws you to the game right away and it even made me think 
 i was cool siting in my bedroom 2AM with pajamas on. lol jk
  (5) Its very similar game to KOTOR the way it works... the way the game runs itself.. the aliens, 
 the worlds, the star ships... but this game has a few things that game didn't. For 1 the player 
 has more customization options for there character. More realistic basis - if you had to think 
 of it realistically. The story comes together a lot faster so you know what you have to do right 
 away, no lallygagging. And your character has voice communication alongside the text of players 
 choice.
  
  
  CONS-
  (1) Theres a trick to this game, when you first start playing it you think... hmm im not really 
 into this. But you HAVE to give it a chance or you'll be missing out on something i almost did 
 myself. As you play more into the game you'll find vehicles, the vehicle combat isn't great... 
 but its worth playing till you get back on your feet.
  (2) You have to play with the henchmen, to many times in the game i would have loved to solo it, 
 reaping all the glory of a proud sniper rifleman. But hardly an issue if your that into it you 
 can just flag them away. 
  (3) 4 gun holsters is nice and all... but it makes you look stupid carrying them around the entire 
 game... let me just equip 2 at a time and switch when i need the other 2. Save me some dignity.
 
  (4) No melee weapons, i was hoping to see at least one close ranged weapon aside a shotgun.
  (5) Cool aliens but all in all theirs only like 5 real races that have any say or are even cool 
 to say the least.
  
  Video- Very nice video feed, can be static but easily removed in graphic menu with some handy work. 
 This game has decent minimum requirements but you wont even get half the seen without something 
 like an 8600 geforce with supported system and 2gigs minimum ram.. that may be slightly overreacting 
 but still a valid example. My friend has a 6800 geforce and 1.5gig ram. It works on his, occasional 
 lagg, some unmatched sound. And video delay sometimes. With lowest settings. But still very playable.
 
  
  Sound- The sound in general is perfect for this type of game, the quality needn't be better, and 
 its nicely matched up with the video. But as you explore it deeper its in actuality lazy. By lazy 
 i mean the aliens all speak galactic-aka-english so it leaves nothing to the imagination. Exceptions 
 of the Protheans who are in fact an extinct alien race. I noticed the same soldiers voice in this 
 was in KOTOR playing Carth Onasi. lol it kinda made me laugh sense threw the entire game i couldn't 
 take his face off the soldier i was just getting to know.
  
  Controls- A touchy subject... the controls for the pc can be altered to your liking. But in general 
 how it plays out is fine. But not perfect. Theres no duck and roll maneuvers... no leep into action 
 maneuvers... i mean im playing the galaxy's strongest warrior, and savior... and im running into 
 action with no maneuvers or jump's... it just didn't add up. Which is amazing how without any of 
 the extra/needed stuff for this type of game. Its still worth beating. 
  Note - Remember to learn how to use the special ability as you get them. I went 75% threw the game 
 before figuring them out. Its on the control henchmen menu.
  
  Storyline- The primary storyline inst long enough I could easily beat it in 8 hours with cheats. 
 However they added in a bunch of less important quests to do to prolong the inevitable. So with 
 that said without cheats, the first time playing it took me about 2 full days. The story in general 
 is perfect i wouldn't change it at all, there is plot, speculation, deception, everything that 
 you need for a truly amazing story. Its the type of game that makes you think 1 thing the entire 
 game until later on switch your initial opinion. I love games like that, keeps you on the edge 
 of your seat.
  
  Recommendation- I would recommend this game to rpg fans even if you've only ever liked one rpg, 
 and those who love a great storyline.
  
  Last note, you'll play this game and be wanting more. I would love to get my hands on the next 
 one myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoltcsas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 1:33 am PT
Review:  It was a long-awaited game, and it was worth waiting for. The new game world that was created for 
 the game is well-polished and very interesting, the different species are really different, I mean 
 I was eager to get to know them, their histories. What was really a good choice in waving the tale 
 was the role of mankind in this new universe, it is very interesting and thought-provoking to see 
 humans as the newcomers, the ones who have to face prejudices. I think the game delivers much in 
 terms of propagating tolerance and understanding other cultures. 
  And the really important part, the gameplay is well-polished, too. The combat system works well, 
 though the only problem also lies here, in my opinion. The fights are usually easy and the player 
 does not need to use the abilities the characters have. Normally, I play the game as a shooter, 
 it is the easiest way to dispatch enemies: to target them and take them down. It is also rarely 
 needed to look for cover, unfortunately. 
  Apart from the lack of really challenging combat the story and characters are so interesting that 
 I felt the urge to play to make the story progress. Well-written dialogues, exciting choices of 
 actions and likable characters are the real highlights of the game.
  All in all, the game is a masterpiece in terms of storytelling and character-development; it is 
 very easy to lose the track of time while you are in the pursuit of Saren and while you are trying 
 to strengthen the weak position humankind has in this new and exciting universe.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PieCrusher
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is the first rpg game that i've found that is more fun then KotOR. They had great ideas 
 and they put them together perfectly. The storyline was easy to follow but wasn't lame and generic. 
 The graphics also don't have any down falls if you have the right computer. I loved how realistic 
 the lighting was and how good the special effects looked. It was cool how you could destroy an 
 enemies cover or simply just lift into the air with your biotics. The special powers of the characters 
 really added to the depth of the game. It just gives you so many options for stratization. It's 
 always fun to stun your enemies or lift them in the air. The open endedness to this game is a great 
 aspect as well. You go at your own pace and explore the universe. Over all the best thing about 
 it is how it is stylized as a third person shooter. They did these very well and it maximized the 
 gameplay. Mass Effect is among the best games I have played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Royce_glas1980
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 12:17 am PT
Review:  Absolutely Great, visuals are great, sound is great, voice acting is almost perfect, you name it, the 
 universe in the game is very beautiful and it is keen on many tiny details during the game!
  Interesting new dialog choosing menu (reminds you of Fahrenheit game to some extent) !
  Interesting 
 and creative new creatures, with new cultures and everything!
  Different attitudes in the game!
  Story is quite good specially in these times which most of 
 the games are lacking a good story and plot!
  Another interesting thing it has which i rarely seen in anywhere was you have to inspect your ship 
 after you get to be the commander aside from typical getting to know each other part which you 
 have with your crew!
  Although it could be still more perfect which i really hope it will be in the next Mass Effect 
 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arnovm
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2008 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Absolutely awesome! Every aspect of the game is indeed thought thru. The graphics is not the best 
 out there but does not lack at all.
  
  After getting the hang of controlling the upgrades and managing the team, it really becomes a game 
 that grows on you. The controls (keyboard and mouse) are easy to use and precise in combat, can 
 also turn on auto assist if you wish to.
  
  The story does not become tedious or tiresome as it keeps you wondering and wanting more. The difficulty 
 is just right and can be extremely challenging on the more difficult settings.
  
  Navigating the massive gameplay environment is easy and enjoyable as the quick access to specific 
 locations keeps you close to where you need to be. This game is combining all the aspects I like 
 in a brilliant way. Space voyage, exploration, action and a brilliant story, makes it just right.
 
  
  It is addictive and rightly so as I said: "I fell in love with RPG all over again!"
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lone_Warrior_66
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 6:49 am PT
Review:  I've always been a fan of good RPG's. As a PC gamer we get our share of them but the major title's 
 like Final Fantasy are usually restricted to consoles. With Mass Effect's PC release we get the 
 chance to experience this awesome adventure to. 
  
  Story:
  I won't give away any spoilers about the story in this review but suffice to say it's amazing and 
 stays interesting throughout the game. There are some major changes in the plot several times which 
 will make you go "no way!". This however brings me to, probably the only downside of Mass Effect. 
 The main story line is relatively short. It took me about 18 hours to finish the game for the first 
 time and I probably even did half of the side quests. If you'd speed run the game you'd probably 
 be able to complete it within 12 hours which is simply quite short. This doesn't make the story 
 less amazing of course, in the end you'll only wish there was more. 
  
  Graphics And Artistic:
  Mass Effect looks absolutely amazing, my machine is only a few month's 
 old so I was able to run the game on the highest settings without experiencing any FPS drops. Everything 
 from textures to light effects just looks great, and although it might require a high end machine 
 it's definitely worth it. I agree with the Gamespot review that from an artistic standpoint Mass 
 Effect has some minor similarities with Halo but it's nothing that really bothered me. One thing 
 that did stand out was that most of the armors and weapon categories only have a few models. when 
 you find a better weapon it usually looks exactly the same with a minor color difference.
  
  Sound And Voice:
  One of the biggest features that makes Mass Effect so amazing is the voice 
 work and soundtrack. All dialog in the game is spoken and lip synced which just adds so much to 
 the feel of the game. Great voice casting also makes all the characters feel so much more alive. 
 The game's soundtrack follows critical moments in the story and adds to the overall atmosphere 
 and feel of the game.
  
  Combat:
  Allot of RPG's have a great story but their combat engine is usually not quite as good. In Mass 
 Effect this isn't the case. The combat makes for some intense moments in the game and never starts 
 to bore. Because of the ability to pause combat at any moment and assign your squad mates different 
 orders the combat feels really tactical which I personally like allot. Besides combat on foot there's 
 also the Mako, your all terrain vehicle. It's been improved allot since the Xbox360 version and 
 now combat with your Mako works just fine.
  
  Replay Value:
  As I mention before, the biggest downside for Mass Effect is simply that the main story is so short. 
 The game does however have a high replay value, because there's so many important decisions to 
 make during the game. You'll definitely be making a second (if not 3th and 4th) run through the 
 game to see how things would have turned out if you had made other decisions. 
  
  Mass Effect skyrocket's itself to be one of my all time favorites and although the game is short 
 you'll enjoy every minute of it. It's like a great blockbuster movie experience which stays on 
 your mind weeks after you've played it. Even if you've never enjoyed RPG's before this is the chance 
 to try the best of the best this genre has to offer.
  
  9.5
  //
  Lone_Warrior_66 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vlweb3d
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 19, 2008 4:54 am PT
Review:  This game should have been for the PC in the first place. Now Mass Effect is in its true home, 
 where it rightfully belongs - the best gaming platform ever, the PC. This game is what "Advent 
 Rising" should have been. The story is fantastic - as I expected from BioWare. They've done it 
 again. I thought that I played the best story ever with "Knights Of The Old Republic" - but Mass 
 Effect raised the bar even higher. The control system is fluid - nothing beats a keyboard and mouse. 
 I can't even imagine trying to play this game with a game controller. Great story, fluid controls, 
 no glitches - what more do you want?
  
  As far as I'm concerned, Bill Gates and his crew stole Gears Of War, Mass Effect and Halo from 
 PC gamers. Mass Effect is a fine example of the many advantages of PC controls and gameplay over 
 consoles - which is exactly why these games should be made for the PC. If you don't have this game 
 for the PC as yet, what's wrong with you - go get it already !!!
  
  By the way, trying to squeeze Real-Time-Strategy games onto consoles is a stupid idea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_luz_10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 10:04 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is made by Bioware. Bioware, that company that made Knights of the Old Republic... you 
 know those really good RPG games that came out a few years back. KOTOR I had a superb plot twist 
 storyline. Well guess what, Mass Effect packs quite the great storyline itself. It has an innovative 
 blend of 3rd person shooter combat, and RPG leveling, and dialogue, plots etc.
  
  *Plot* 10/10
  
  The story is great. It does a great job of satisfying you in a sense that you 
 have accomplished your mission and uncovered more of the story, but it gives you that urge to keep 
 playing just so you can do more. I am a very picky gamer and very few games, or even TV shows, 
 and movies for that matter can make me play them for hours on end just because i want more and 
 more out of it and to know what is going to happen next.
  
  Mass Effect takes place sometime in the future. Humans have fallen down the hierarchy and are disliked 
 and mistrusted by almost every alien race. What happens is a well respected agent of the "Council", 
 which is the galaxy United Nations... that actually does something for a change..., goes rogue. 
 This rogue agent is trying to uncover a historical device that was believed to have decimated civilizations 
 over 50,000 years ago. So if this rogue agent get his hands on that device well he could potentially 
 kill anyone or anything he wanted to. Seeing how he dislikes humans he'll probably start with the 
 human race first........ (thats not good!!!!!)
  
  *Characters* 10/10
  
  The characters are soooo good. The alien races you encounter are just so unique and the voices 
 fit them perfectly. Wrex is a total bada**. The characters really add to the experience because 
 of their opinions about what to do in certain quests. In one quest you are faced with the choice 
 of slaughtering the villagers whose minds have come under the control of a foreign device or stun 
 them and hope that destroying the device will stop their mind control. Wrex had no problem simply 
 marching right through them and blasting anyone who opposed, but my other character felt we should 
 use the tranquilizer guns and grenades to harm them as less as possible.
  
  *Voice Acting* 10/10
  
  I LOVE the voice acting. It is sooo good. Even familiar high profile 
 actors/actresses do some of the main characters voices. The alien voices are done very well. They 
 give you that other worldly sense when they speak to you. If they are meant to be a bada**, like 
 Wrex, then they certainly talk and sound like one. The dialogue options are superb. They really 
 added onto the KOTOR formula for dialogue options. The main character has a voice YES! Instead 
 of simply reading the exact sentence of what you want to say you have a little circle that displays 
 in about 2-4 words what youre going to say.
  
  For example the colonists I mentioned above. Someone says "we cant hurt them, what are we going 
 to do"
  Choice 1: "We wont hurt them" - Good guy
  Choice 2:"We'll try to be careful" - more borderline
  Choice 3:"No one will stop us" - Bad Guy
 
  
  Sheppard wont say those exact words but something similar to that. What I'm saying is he wont answer 
 in 2-3 words all the time, sometimes he will but at least 80% of the time its a longer dialogue... which 
 is superbly voice acted.
  
  *Combat* - 6/10
  
  Mass Effect doesnt have your traditional style of RPG combat of targeting an enemy then scrolling 
 through a menu of your abilities and attacks, then deciding what to do. Instead Mass Effect has 
 an actually real time 3rd person shooter gameplay. You can pause the game using spacebar to micromanage 
 abilities, and weapons etc. but combat is in 3rd person shooter real time. The concept of the combat 
 is very good and I much appreciated the innovation. However the combat itself is way too easy and 
 very simplistic, and every know and then the difficulty level just jumps up and down without warning. 
 Biotic powers are fun, and cool, but I've beat a good portion of the game barely using them. I've 
 found you can just go through spraying with your assault rifle and you'll kill them easily. Your 
 squad mates are idiots unless you pause the game and micromanage them. I'll be firing at 4 enemies 
 and about 80% of the time my buddies stand there and do nothing. The combat itself is like a very 
 mediocre version of Gears of War's combat mechanics. You can run into cover, and stand up and fire. 
 But really there is no need to, my assault rifle can do the job anytime.
  
  If you could somehow magically and legally throw in Gears of War's combat mechanics this game would 
 be wicked sick. I've played a lot of shooters like Counterstrike: Source, Gears of War, Crysis, 
 Call of Duty 1,2,4, and this combat system in M. E. is just very average and too easy.
  
  *Final Thoughts*
  
  Mass Effect packs a terrific story, characters, voice acting, menus, and 
 interfaces. However the combat is just very average. The RPG/FPS blend is a very good concept and 
 Mass Effect does a very good job at it. But when you see the caliber of gameplay and mechanics 
 in other shooters Mass Effects combat system is just too easy and not that high of a caliber as 
 those of Gears of War, Call of Duty etc. Newcomers to the shooter genre will probably like the 
 difficulty of M. E.'s combat system. But when you play shooters competitively you expect much more 
 challenging gunplay.
  
  The combat system does get the job done, and thats all that matters. If Mass Effect could tweak 
 it's combat system to be more like that of Gears of War which is what they were aiming for (but 
 only an average piece of that) then this game would be wicked sick.
  
  In closing, Mass Effect is innovative, packs SUPERB dialogue, plots, quests, characters etc., and 
 with an improved combat system in a sequel this game will EASILY become an instant classic, and 
 an all-time great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gragnak
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 15, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  This game's really well made.
  Sometime I felt like I was playing to a KOTOR sequel but the story and charcters help to appreciate 
 the different setting.
  Good graphic and sound.
  I bought the game hoping to play a good crpg but I found a good adevnture with fps action and some 
 strong rpg elemnt.
  Some game mechanics are a little bit too console related (the menu management isn't fully developed 
 in my opinion) , some bug with audio drivers (you have to enable integrated motherboard audio card 
 if you have a Creative soundcard, if you want to play the game) , the online check (my connection 
 died just two days after I bought the game and I had to wait the internet to be fixed before I 
 could play again...) .... all these little nasty things tend to get annoying.
  But the game manage to immerse you in a deep story and unexplored universe. This is what you're 
 looking for. And Bioware was succesfull! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azuki
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 12, 2008 6:34 am PT
Review:  So let me start off by saying I truly enjoyed this game to almost insane levels. I've never been 
 a huge rpg fan, mostly because the vast majority of them have rather cluttered interfaces, annoying 
 control systems and that horid isometic view angle. Mass Effect does away with all of that and 
 although takes the majority of its gameplay elements from games such as gears of war and uncharted 
 it still holds up strong and is a heck of alot of fun despite some minor glitches here and there.
 
  
  The game plays like a 3rd person cover based shooter (with all 4 available weapon types being usable 
 by everyone) with a twist, biotic and engineering powers. Depending on your chosen class depends 
 on which kind of offensive and defensive 'spell' moves you have at your disposal. Think of mass 
 effects offensive spells as being more like ki blasts from dragonball z, big, glowy, lowd and painful 
 looking. Its pretty funny to hit an enemy with throw and see them bounce into a wall or fall off 
 a bridge. 
  
  Now you can read/watch any official review of the game and you'll have an idea of what the game 
 looks and sounds like. And I say this in total seriousness, it features some of if not THE best 
 voice acting and facial motion capture I've ever seen in an rpg. Up there with metal gear solid 
 4, uncharted and heavenly swords brilliant character performances.
  
  That being said if you're not into 'the story' or 'world' that mass effect revolves around then 
 you'll possibly be of the minority that will dislike this game because if you're playing for gameplay 
 alone you will be missing out on what makes this game as good as it is. In light of that I regard 
 the game as more of an interactive visual novel than 'just a game' as absolutely every aspect of 
 mass effect has some kind of explanation, reason, sense, and purpose behind its existence. Even 
 the unexplorable planets have there own statistics and descriptions. I'm still unsure how many 
 there are altogether but considering there's around 30 galaxies with 4 or more star systems in 
 each that's quite alot. 
  
  And now to the downside, the repetition or 'overuse' of assets within the game. Play long enough 
 and you'll know exactly what i'm reffering too.
  Eventually you will realize that this game, despite its visual qualities reuses ALOT of models/environments. 
 And its obvious little effort was put in to making each unique as it rarely gets more random than 
 say how many crates are in a room, or how many 'extra' corridors lead to 'extra' rooms. The most 
 striking of these is the elevator and door panels all of which are exactly the same, even on the 
 final level (which is visually incredible otherwise) features the same exact green glowing panels 
 and its suppose to be an old abandoned complex so when 99% of it looks how it should and these 
 models don't they stand out like a sore thumb. 
  Explore enough of Mass Effects worlds and you'll begin to notice that repetition and reuse soon 
 becomes the staple of this games environments. Sadly the same is true for the armor and weapons.
 
  Through the game all your characters will progress though around 8 or so tiers of armor and weapons. 
 Of these there are maybe 4 different models for each with slight texture variations between them.
 
  
  Of my complaints with the title this reuseage issue is the only real one.
  Hopefully the sequel will feature much more diversity and less repetition.
  Now I know that rpgs 
 have been doing this and getting away with it for some time but it really is quite odd that 2 or 
 so extra months cant be set aside to add a little more variation here and there, it would make 
 these types of games -that- much more satisfying and rewarding. Luckily one rpg is doing this (silicon 
 knights Too Human) , and could very well start a new trend if we're lucky.
  
  All that aside the game is uber fun to play, rarely has technical issues ( i ran into none myself) 
 and the only real bug seems to be character pathing. Its somewhat lacking but never game breaking. 
 
  
  The PC port isn't very different from the 360 version aside from some minor UI changes (much better 
 suited for PC) and the obvious higher res textures/faster load times that naturally come with pc 
 ports.
  
  All in all a truly amazing game and its given me a good feeling about the future of the rpg genre 
 and I CAN NOT WAIT for mass effect 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RexTTer
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 14, 2008 1:45 am PT
Review:  I loved KOTOR. What a great game that was! Playing thru to the end three times and discovering 
 something new every time was such fun. Excellent characters, ok graphics, tough moral choices and 
 gripping story. KOTOR2 was good too. Maybe not quite as good, but quite good.
  
  So where do Bioware go after such successful games when the StarWars license runs out? They invent 
 their own universe, that's what, substituting biotics for the Force, getting rid of lightsabres 
 and carrying on the great tradition! Bioware took a big risk in the invention of a whole universe 
 - would it be convincing enough, how to travel the vast distances, diverse and different enough 
 races etc. And they have pulled it off! The question I kept asking myself as I played was, "Is 
 this a Starwars game without the licence?" And it isn't. It stand completely on it's own merit.
 
  
  So what of the game? You start as the obigitory level 1 with a bit of back story and progress as 
 you'd expect through an RPG; doing quests, gaining xp, shaping your character with the decisions 
 you make. RPGs stand or fall on how interested you are in the character themselves and the interactions 
 they're allowed to make. I've played the game thru twice, once as a good guy (paragon) and once 
 as a baddie (renegade) and I can tell you, the decisions really effect the outcomes.
  
  The game has a gamp-play timer an I'm told it lasted about 24hrs of solid game time for me on the 
 second play thru. This is good value considering the richness on offer. The story and characters 
 are good on their own, but there are many other aspects of the game also of excellent quality. 
 The music for example, the cut-scenes and the way the camera focuses on different parts of the 
 screen like a lens. All add to the solid feel of great quality.
  
  So I would definately recommend this game. But why not give it a '10'? Well there are a couple 
 of small short-comings. The first is you cannot skip dialogue. You have to just wait until the 
 person shuts up so you can move on. This was ok during the first play thru as I'd not heard what 
 they had to say before, so it was quite interesting. However, on the second play thru I was crying 
 out for a 'skip dialogue' option.
  
  Another niggle is there is often dialogue just before a main fight. This gets better later in the 
 game when Bioware seem to have realised what was happening. But for the first two thirds of the 
 game you get a dialogue before the a fight. Which you might lose. So you reload and have to sit 
 thru the same dialogue again (and again in my case) .
  
  You can tell if a game is good when you complete it and you feel like playing it again and this 
 game definitely has the re-play value. Also, Bioware are working on a free download of added content 
 to take the story onward, which is really nice and I'm looking forward to the release of that.
 
  
  In summary, the best RPG available since The Witcher. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaqknife
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is an epic struggle set in space. You play as an intergalactic SPEC OPS officer. Various 
 people will ask for your help and give out missions. Those missions will take you across half the 
 Milky Way. 
  
  As the game starts you can either enter a profile or create a new one. If you create a new profile 
 you will be given the option to customize your hero somewhat. You can play as male or female and 
 alter the facial appearance and hair styles. You can change the first name but not the last name 
 of your character. As you progress in the missions you gain experience and levels. You spend points 
 upon level-up to fine tune your character's skills as well as your group members skills. Various 
 merchants sell upgrades, armor and weapons that can be purchased with credits from mission rewards.
 
  
  The graphics are decent however I had trouble with dynamic shadows being too pixelated and thus 
 had to turn it off. Also some sounds were either too loud or not loud enough. Volume levels tended 
 to be uneven. I wear headphones so this was a minor issue but nothing that really took away from 
 the game experience.
  
  This game to me is most like Oblivion in Space. This game has a lot of potential for future expansions. 
 This could open a whole new Franchise for BioWare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weewalio
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 29, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  The Baldur's Gate games were stellar. I enjoyed Neverwinter Nights. I loved its sequel. I absolutely 
 devoured both Knights of the Old Republic games (even if The Sith Lords wasn't really a Bioware 
 game, it was still addictive) . But Mass Effect leaves me with a bad first impression, and that's 
 a first for a Bioware game as far as I am concerned.
  
  The story so far is excellent, the production values incredible. I like the main characters, despise 
 the main villain already, and can tell the plot is simply going to get better and better. Surprisingly, 
 what is bumming me out is ME's actual gameplay. I'll sum up my problems in a few short sentences 
 (and keep in mind, these are my problems with Mass Effect; someone else may not agree and that's 
 fine) . 
  
  1- Vehicular combat is boring.
  2- Planetary exploration seems repetitive and uninspired.
  3- Equipment stats don't really make 
 much sense to me. I can tell one item is better than another, and the comparison screens make it 
 clear, BUT (see following point)
  4- The FPS combat portion of the game has so far been INSANELY difficult. 
  
  I can't really 
 pin down what it is that's making it so hard, but on my way to gaining command of the Normandy, 
 my party members must have died a half dozen times already- this is in the first 5 hours of the 
 game and Shepherd almost bought it as many times. Now, on only my second planetary exploration, 
 I've come across a "dungeon", as it were, that I am simply unable to pass no matter what. I've 
 tried a good ten times, and each time the three of us are slaughtered without so much as a glimmer 
 of hope that we're close to winning the fight. Biotics, grenades, shotguns (for close range fighting) . 
 nothing seems to work. I've ordered my companions to attack, focused fire, managed their powers 
 (or let them try to run them) , whateverwe die, and we die fast and hard.
  
  I don't knowsomething about the game feels off for a Bioware RPG. The weapons and powers don't 
 feel like they are at where they should be for my level, my companions seem next to useless, and 
 the thought of flying from one planet to the next and dropping down in the Mako over and over and 
 over again depresses me. It just doesn't seem like it's fun.
  
  My previous experiences with Bioware RPGs had me hopelessly, irrevocably hooked and unable to stop 
 playing at this point (5-10 hours into the game) . Mass Effect already has me questioning whether 
 or not I want to keep playing it. It's not a bad game, don't get me wrong. But to me, it seems 
 like a very big step backwards for Bioware.
  
  EDIT: After putting in another 2 hours' time, I've come back and, unbelievably, lowered my score 
 from 5 to 3.5. The difficulty level hasn't gone down one bit, indeed it has ramped up. My character's 
 always broke... can't afford any decent upgrades.... and can't survive without them. I've restarted 
 missions 5 more times in the past 2 hours. Mass Effect isn't my type of game, unlike all of Bioware's 
 previous works. It just isn't... fun.
  
  My suggestion? If you like FPS-type games, you may like Mass Effect. But I hate FPS... and as far 
 as I'm concerned, ME is an RPG in marketing terms only. It feels too difficult, too abstract, and 
 too poorly balanced. Regretfully, I'll be freeing up hard drive space and uninstalling it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_GundamRX78
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 12, 2008 9:26 pm PT
Review:  When "Mass Effect" came out on the Xbox 360 it looked like a very neat game, and a game I very 
 much wanted to play. Unfortunately I didn't have a 360 (and still don't) . But as luck would have 
 it, a PC version was later released, and after I actually had some money I went out and picked 
 it up.
  I've been pleased, and I'm glad I bought it. "Mass Effect" is a truly great game. Like one of BioWare's 
 similar titles, "Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic", there's so much to do, see and explore. 
 To be honest it feels a lot like KotOR in many ways, but that's not a bad thing. There are numerous 
 planets to visit, tons of quests to tackle, a host of characters to meet and more; and with downloadable 
 content adding more missions and content to the game it's well worth the money.
  
  There's really not much to dislike about this game, except for maybe the various loading bits that 
 come up every so often. Really, my only complaints are that I wish there were more hair style and 
 color options for male characters, and I wish that we could paint our weapons and armor as we liked -- 
 that would be very nice.
  
  In short, Mass Effect is without a doubt a great sci-fi thriller game and it's worth being checked 
 out. If you liked KotOR and you like FPS games, you'll love this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omega11
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 12, 2008 8:43 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games that critics seem to love. It's not a hardcore RPG game, but it has 
 very light rpg elements. I guess that's a good thing since it keeps things simple for the console 
 gamers. The game is fun to play, has solid graphics for a port, and includes a decent story. The 
 only major flaw has to be the inventory mgt system, but even that can be forgiven because the game 
 is fun to play with and you really don't have to worry about changing a mess of weapons in a short 
 amount of time. There's plenty of time to plan out your attack strategies and the main characters 
 are nonplayable squad mates.
  
  
  Finally, the only other flaw I can think of is that most of the choices you make in the game are 
 rather linear and do not drastically impact the game's conclusion. The romantic elements in the 
 story arc are rather comical, but cute. Overall, a great game that has minimal rpg elements and 
 will probably bore the hardcore RPGers out there, but is definitely worth the price of admission. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandox
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 11:16 pm PT
Review:  I did have some glitches, gurgles and lockups. Load times at map loads was only slightly noticeable. 
 After a couple hours of playing getting to the save screen was tediously slow. 
  
  Compaq presario sr1954nx
  singlecore Ath 3700 , XPme2005, 1.5G ddr2, PnyGeforce7600Gs, Soundblaster 
 Aud7.1
  
  My pc was towards the lower end, so playabilty at highest settings would not be had. Generaly most 
 games I can go med-high reducing shadow effects makes them run at a good frame rate. MassEffect 
 I had to remove film grain and res was 1280-768 for best play. will run widowed, fairly nice hard 
 to read in windowed mode though.
  
  SAVE frequently I cannot reiterate this enough... some dialog would hiccup, and I would miss out 
 on what was said.
  
  Cheat codes for this game were not much fun, I used the all weapon-item code and you cannot pick 
 up more until you slowly tediously destroy-omni gel the surplus.
  
  The one true dissapointment was the Renegade-paragon meters, at either extreeme there was little 
 effect on the game at all. being that these guys had a hand in Kotor2 there should have been more 
 of an influence effect on the Npc and the storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DennisChu22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is by far one of the best games I have ever played. Hands down. It is engaging, decisive, 
 and action-packed as well.
  
  The story is phenomenal. Words can't really describe it, but I can tell you that it is really deep. 
 That are many facets that make up the story that in the end, unless you read the majority of the 
 additional information that the game gives to you in order to submerge yourself in the Mass Effect 
 universe, the majority of the events won't be as meaningful as they could. What starts out as a 
 simple problem quickly evolves to a gargantuan complication.
  
  I absolutely love the gameplay. For the very first time, I have found a game that blends three 
 elements that I love into one neat package: science-fiction, first-person shooters, and role-playing. 
 Right there, I was already hooked. It's just your ordinary sword-wielding medieval-era RPG anymore 
 (sorry Oblivion) , and that is exactly what made this game so much more fulfilling. The gameplay 
 itself is fluid, intense, and highly enjoyable. Veterans of the Knights of the Old Republic series 
 might see a little bit of similarity here and there.
  
  Graphics, oh man. They were absolutely stunning. The cinematic cutscenes were my favorite, especially 
 at the end. All of them are breath-taking and well thought out. At times, I almost felt like I 
 was watching a film. But don't let this fool you: the system reqs aren't too taxing, but the faster 
 the computer, the better the overall game will be (naturally) .
  
  Mass Effect is definitely something to check out. Anyone that has an inkling of interest in any 
 type of role-playing game should definitely rush off to his local game store to pick up this phenomenal 
 package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downsider
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  I wrote a review for the 360 version of the game a while back. I was really impressed with the 
 game but the graphical hickups and long load times along with textures taking 10 - 15 seconds to 
 load got me thinking... can the 360 even run this game?
  
  When i heard about it's launch to the PC i was freaking out as to what the system requirements 
 would be. (I sold my 360 for Ps3) 
  
  I was SO WRONG! You dont need a powerful PC to play this game at all. I have an Intel Pentium 4 
 3.00GHz and 2GB of RAM along with ATI RADEON HD 2400 Series (512mb) 2GB hypermemory and i am running 
 the game as high as it can go and it seems to run smoother then on the Xbox360.
  
  Graphical wise, game looks amazing. There arent alot of graphical glicthes and stutters as seen 
 on the Xbox360 version. You can turn On/Off Film Grain, having it off gives you a boost in performance. 
 Shadows could have been a little better however, the lighting is excellent. 
  
  Sound is one of the games strongest points. Voice acting is to a T! music and the effects of the 
 weapons and special abilities are just as good as they were on 360.
  
  The story isint bland and can have you pulled in to advance further. You can do secondary missions 
 and get items and so on along the way. Do tasks for other characters from the game... even discover 
 things about yourself.
  
  There is a codec, journal and so on. Giving you so much information, get ready to read... i dont 
 want to go full out as i had review the game a while back... i just needed to put my 2 cents worth 
 to let everyone know that the game looks great, doesint need a high powered PC and the controls 
 are flawless. Just right for PC gamers.
  
  Enjoy the game to its full potential. (Only reason i picked this up for my PC is the fact that 
 when i had my Xbox360, it chewed the CD and i was never able to pass the 20 hour mark of playtime...) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zahik
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  Omg 8D, I haven't been so madly stuck at my computer since Obilivion after the original The Sims. 
 I just finished the game, and WOW.. Am going to play it again this time finishing all the side 
 missions =D.
  
  This is the first good point about it, the highly replay rate, that you may wanna try different 
 options in conversations and such, to see how they affect the direction of the story, though not 
 much, it's just noticable sometimes in the paragade & renegade dialogue, unlike the true feeling 
 of change when you are opted to choose between saving Ash or Kaiden, omg, that was one helluva 
 choice to make T__T.
  Just the feeling of being part of the conversations, even though often same results happen, is 
 just so fun 8D. Talking with anyone, makes me wish that, although technically impossible, for a 
 never repititive conversations, but that just me D=..
  
  The second good point is the high definition graphics. Omg, walking down corridors of the once 
 glorious Prothean spared city or being in the Citadel plaza watching parts of this huge station 
 is just.. I love watching big things ;D, makes you feel like you are there. There are killing glitches 
 of course, but it's only my old 7900GS 256MB.
  
  Third, battles. Holding back and sniping for an infilterator or charging head on with the modified 
 pistol and casting a biotic on the pathetic enemy, all feel good =D. Making an advance, firing 
 the Assault rifle, then switching to the pistol after taking cover, providing cover for your team 
 till they arrive after you. Omg I love everything here :D, especially the switching noise of weapons. 
 Although I never understand or found a use of the 'space button' menu. And it always get stuck 
 and the buttons don't work, don't know why ~\_ (o_0) _/~ 
  
  Fourth, being in control of a ship that actually travel through space =D. Merely the levels change 
 only, I just like the feeling of cutting distances =D
  And roaming around an open field with the Mako (the vehicle) . I find it so much fun to climp a 
 mountain with this thing =D, the suspension system is superb.
  
  Finally, fifth, the strong pulling story, that feels much more like a movie or something =D, I 
 really like it. And the cut scenes are the best where the final battle and electing Shepard as 
 a spectre were among the finest.
  
  Unfortuently, I don't feel like I am fighting for example a level 25 monster, they are all the 
 same to me, as monster lives or techniques never changes untill you change the difficulty level 
 itself, but then again, only getting hit easily will kill you is the only difference. So I didn't 
 get the rpg feeling untill I enter the skills increasing screen.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackottoman
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2008 1:17 am PT
Review:  Story
  
  I really like the story of the game. The voice acting is also impressive. The only problem is that 
 the main quest is very brief and the side quests are not as good as the main quest. I was impatient 
 to see what was going to happen next
  
  Graphics
  
  The character models are really great maybe the most realistic characters except Japanese games. The 
 faces and the textures of the main characters are wonderful. The designers used light wisely to 
 create realistic environments. I always climbed to a hill to see sun on various planets.
  
  Sound
  
  As I said before the voice acting is great, sound effects are good and music is nice 
 especially at Citadel, it made me feel like I was really in future.
  
  Gameplay
  
  I completed the game with a logitech gamepad and it was ok. You can control the camera well but 
 at the beginning of the game when your skills are low it is very difficult to target 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TenP
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 12:00 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is, in my opinion, one of the best RPGs I have played. I've only played it on the PC 
 so it's the only experience of it that I know. It is a fantastic game, I've beaten it 4 times in 
 the week I got it and got all the achievements the 3rd week I had it.
  
  It really draws you in, you play it once and almost instantaneously you want to play it again. 
 The Story is excellent, the gameplay is excellent, the whole UI and leveling system is excellent. 
 The only thing about the game that I have a problem with is the graphics, I'm not one to say graphics 
 are more important than gameplay but Mass Effect had horrible lighting and it really distracted 
 me from what was going on the first time I played it. 
  
  To go into detail, the lighting was incredibly pixelated. At first I thought it was just a resolution 
 problem so I upped my resolution to full but that wasn't the problem. You can go into the files 
 manually and fix this, but this also granulated a lot of the shadows so I left it on.
  
  The other problem I had it comes from our old pal EA. You are only able to install the game 5 times 
 with the CD-Key, I have 2 computers that I installed it on twice (due to reformatting) and I lent 
 it out to a buddy so he could give it a run through. Well I'm out of installs, I called EA and 
 they told me since my CD-Key was registered at two different IPs I have to purchase the game again... 
 
  
  !@%$
  
  I never pirate games, so why am I being treated like a thief? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Franko_3
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 8, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  This is truely the deception of the year 2008 for me. I was so hyped for this game. People on xbox360 
 forum were claiming that Mass Effect would give me the best story ever, the best dialogue system 
 ever and pudding ( ;) to Yahtzee fable review) . I will review the game on 5 themes: The story, 
 the gameplay, the graphic, the sounds and the value.
  
  
  The story: Well without spoiling anything ( my last review got deleted because I went too far heh) . 
 You must save everyone and their dogs.
  
  Let me quote you the back of the box: As commander Shepard, you lead an elite (ha!) quad on a 
 heroic (meh) , action-packed adventure troughout the galaxy. Discover the imminent danger from an 
 ancient threat and battle the traitorous Saren and his deadly army to save the civilization. The 
 fate of all life depends on your actions ( lie, more on that later) .
  
  Sure there is more to it, but you get the point. That story is horribly uninspired, nothing Bioware 
 used to made. The powerful traitor that activate an army to kill/enslave everyone has been made 
 already in Star wars ep 1-3... 
  
  Your companion also have their own story, but none of them are actually interesting and/or memorable 
 like Kotor character. ( I miss you Jolee!)
  
  
  Gameplay: Mass effect copy some elements from kotor. While it sounds like a good thing, all the 
 new thing ME bring on table kill the cool element taken from kotor 1.
  
  Combat: Ho the combat... No more need to pause the game and issue order anymore, you are now equiped 
 with gun, so is your teammates. The combat is ok, but quickly it becomes annoying. First, the cover 
 system is completly worthless on the pc (come on Bioware, we could crouch before and we still can, 
 no need to add a gears of wars cover system to a pc game...) . Second, several balance issue with 
 the gun. Third, your team AI is retarded. They are so stupid that I am wondering why they needed 
 to give me a team if they are only good to die, because A- They lack of any survival instinct and 
 will rarely use the good cover. B- They ignore the ennemy that decide to charge them (you can guess 
 that the ennemy AI is retarded also) and prefer to keep firing at the others covered ennemy. C- 
 they will use all their power on 1 ennemy if you don't babysit them. Extremely annoying if you 
 are fighting a boss with some minions around him.
  
  The dialogue system: Let me rage on it for the next minute. The dialogue system in ME is atrocious, 
 I repeat atrocious. They managed to ruin it, even though they used the superb kotor system. I hate 
 how the hero speaks his own line now. Sure it's a nice idea on paper, but it completly remove the 
 roleplay element. It's not me living the story, it's the artificial Shepard. The dialogue system 
 reflect that by giving you some arbitrary dialogue option for every conversation that Shepard will 
 take as merely an opinion of you and will most likely say something else. Let me give you an example: 
 I want to play like a bastard (like kotor dark jedi) , thanksfully, the game give me the option 
 to be bastard and insult the other npc. For example you can say in your early dialogue "you son 
 of a candy" to some guy, when you press that Shepard will say something else, not even an insult 
 or anything bad... /sigh what the point really... Choosing good or bad dialogue will rarely change 
 anything to the story or even change the character attitude toward you, except for some obvious 
 point, but I will not spoil that.
  
  The side quest: The side-quest are horribly insipid and can be resumed by: Deactivate a bomb, liberate 
 the hostage, kill the smuggler, steal computer data... on some bland planet where nobody live and 
 where you need to go with your stupid vehicule that handle like car with flat tires.
  
  
  Graphic: The game use the stupid UT3 engine, so you can expect bland, grey/brown, blurry and bloomy 
 environment almost everywhere. The game engine is poorly optimised. Even on my monster rigs, the 
 game is still chugging in several areas, especially the citadel, for absolutly no reason... If 
 I can run Crysis @ at a steady 30 fps on high, I could run ME @ a steady 50-60fps, not a 60 with 
 drop to 15 once in a while, because the game don't seems to fully load even after the long elevator 
 ride. Lets rage on the elevator! Without these damn elevator, the game take 3-5 seconds to load, 
 with them it takes 20 to 30 seconds and more if my stupid teammate decide that they need to talk. 
 I would fired the guy who had the idea to keep these mandatory elevator ride for the pc version. 
 Finally, some planets are so badly done and show you how far gaming went since mechwarrior 3 in 
 term of environment .
  
  Sound: The music is ok, a bit repetitive after a while, but it's nothing memorable like Halo theme 
 song ( I hate halo, but I gotta admit that the music is extremely good) or Morrowind theme song 
 for example. 
  
  The voice actor are great, with some exception like the male shepard ,who seriously need some emotionnal 
 pills, and Ashley William who sounds like a half-witted valley girl. Nice to see that the guy who 
 voiced Carth in kotor 1 is back as one of your companion, too bad they gave him insipid lines and 
 backstory for his character.
  
  Value: You can probably breeze into the game in 15-20 hours if you miss some side quests, what 
 you will probably do since they are so boring. Since I know I am the minority, I am pretty sure 
 that some peoples will restart the game only to see the different option and make the side quest 
 they forgot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: virivirivapp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Let yourself be abducted into a game which features and allows you to make your own choices, which 
 thus effects the situation and relationship with other characters. Your actions shape the world 
 creating an awesome simulation of 'real' life.
  
  There is a perhaps thin line between what you can do and what you can't, but this is only a feint 
 glip. I am referring to the understandable restriction of movement when traveling to other planets 
 for exploration. Never the less; every planet serves as a valuable and entertaining place to explore. 
 You can salvage objects, scavenge valuable resources distributed on the planets, but be aware of 
 Geth whom are possibly also looking for something to scavenge.
  
  Mass effect, doesn't only submit a great story line, but also a thorough explanation of mostly 
 everything you encounter and note.
  Even if the story line of Mass Effect can be altered by the player, it still keeps a clean and 
 tidy story. There are hundreds of outcomes, but only one choice can be made, which changes perhaps 
 large amounts of the game.
  
  As mentioned above; Mass Effect presents a non-linear game-play, and this is accompanied with a 
 large amount of 'Assignments', which are mere optional quests.
  
  Now, thread into your space ship 'Normandy', Shepard, and with your team to back you up, you will 
 be the one to save and change the universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2008 12:22 am PT
Review:  1st i want ot mention that in my life as a gamer i have played some of the most important games 
 with the most deep storylines ever like Legacy of Kain , HALF-LIFE , WarCraft etc. but all of those 
 combined can barely match the masterpiece story in Mass Effect for instace the cinematic/epic naration 
 is so intense that you can practacally combine STAR TREK with STAR WARS with STAR GATE ( the movies 
 ) & you can create an ideea of how deep & engaging this game is .... it universe leans more for 
 the realistic aproach that STAR TREK has .... simply put you will meet so many characters in this 
 game with so many dialogs altenatives it will mess up your mind ... for me being an X mmo player 
 + many RPG , i was just sinking in the detail that this game has to offer from both an RPG system 
 & the versitile eniroments & characters ... ough yes & if you thought that Gears of War had nice 
 locations/artwork think again because this game has the same ammount of quality thru out the enviroments 
 but but a collosal AMOUNT of enviroments compared to GEARS or any other game that has an open ended 
 world in this case OpenENDED GALAXY ! Speaking about the script not evan some of the most aclaimed 
 Hollywood movies has a script so complex ! 
  Now THE GAMEPLAY (Jean-Luc Picard) "ENGAGE mister DATA, i have said in the revew deck that this 
 game is a conflux of gameplay because in general it combines what you have seen in KOTOR with GEARS 
 of WAR & many other games like Lost Planet , Bioshock ... so the conclusion is that this game may 
 not be revolutionarry but its REVOLUTIONARY the way its all put togheter i mean other developers 
 barely can get right a 1one way game ,even GEARs or HL had its flaws well men i just couldn't find 
 any big FLAWS in this games like the stupid A. I. in GEARS teammates or HL's combines , or scripted 
 events that just pop up shatering the expierence , or repetitive gameplay like in Titan Quest or 
 Lineage 2 ! The flaws are so minor i can; t really point out one !
  As for the presentation you just must consider this the best use of Unreal 3 technology till now 
 at least till Gears 2 comes out ... but just the expresions of the characters & the level of enviroments 
 , enemies & other stuff should compansate is such a way that you can consider GEARS 2 the best 
 use of U3 tech ! & yeah speaking about voice acting ... i tought Legacy of Kain had the best voice 
 acting in history .... well thing again & just look for the cast on www. imdb. com !
  THE FINAL WORD is that this game stomped everygame that i hold dear to my heart in terms of complexety, diveristy, story 
 & presentation ! HL/Splinter Cell /Assassins Creed/CoH/Fear/Lineage 2 & many more got trashed ! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedigaurdian22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 10:37 pm PT
Review:  as said before FANTASTIC i love this game so very much, the blend of third person/first person 
 shooter combined with the RPG and storyline elements of KOTOR (which is one of my favorite ever 
 ever ever games) was PERFECT and made for a thrilling storyline in-deph characters that you can 
 really be attached too. The freedom and non-linear elements were very good, the ONLY thing that 
 makes me rate you down one is that you can get so caught up with side missions and exploring you 
 lose track of what your doing, which isnt necessarily a bad thing!! but still.
  
  My recommendation is YES YES YES!!! if you like FPS BUY IT if you like RPG BUY IT if you like KOTOR 
 BUY BUY BUY
  
  This is a great game, so if you dont like it at first glance you must give it a chance, i IMPLORE 
 you, listen to the story and dont skip cutscenes they are what make this game so great, not to 
 mention it doesnt put too bad a strain on your PC for the graphics it brings us,
  
  ad said before BUY IT
  
  Peace! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rick2438
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  The guys at EA and Bio played it safe by running parallel to KOTOR.. Mass Effect .., Right off 
 the bat it has aKOTOR -ish feel to it.. The story line has the same feeling as well . This 
 is a good game to get into. There are a lot of twist and turns along the way to keep the story 
 going. The unexplored planets got a little redundant but All-in-all I think the guys at Bio did 
 a very good job.. I will look for a little more freedom and less redundancy in Mass Effect 2
  
  The character selection is very important for your missions. Example .., If you have a strong 
 Combat team .. you may be weak in other areas such as Technical .. so there may be some areas you 
 cant enter or crates that you cant open because your Tech skill is too low. This may case you to 
 have to go back to your ship & change teams just to complete the mission the way you want or to 
 get the goodies that are in crates or behind locked doors. 
  
  Good Replay - I am going back through the game just to be a fool the next time around .. I want 
 to see what it will be like just always say the wrong things and just be the bad guy. 
  
  I'm giving M. E. a solid 9 only beacuse it's TOOO close to KOTOR 2 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talus057
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  I initially had trouble starting Mass Effect. I felt really stupid when I was browsing my start 
 all programs and saw the configuration utility that I didn't run. DUH!!!?!! So I ran the config 
 utility, and it did its thing, then I started up the game, and I've been playing ever since. 
 
  
  This game is rhythmic to Jade Empire and KOTOR. There is the karmic scale, called "Paragon", and 
 "Renegade". But it also feels a lot like Tabula Rasa because of the pack they wear to hold their 
 weapons. This game runs pretty good, too! I am only running on 2x512mb sticks of kingston valueram, 
 and an agp 7600gs, and I only get slightly sluggish every now and then. I wouldn't call it lag 
 exactly, because its not repeated... it seems random, maybe when the game is making my gpu and 
 cpu do a lot of work.
  
  The graphics are amazing! You don't need to go spend 3000 dollars on a new computer for this game. 
 Every now and then I see people buy brand new computers just for 1 game and its always a bad idea. 
 the game looks great on my end! I cant imagine it looking much better than this, and if it could 
 somehow, it might be a bit overkill. My only gripe is that I wish I could be just a little bit 
 faster, so a dual core CPU is definitely recommended, but not at all required.
  
  The voice actors... OMG the voice actors! They are REAL actors. You will recognize them right off 
 the bat... Captain Anderson and Joker are two characters whom you will recognize who is doing the 
 voice acting.
  
  This "game" must have cost a LOT of money to make! I can imagine that BioWare HAD to go to a big 
 publisher or they could never make this game at all! I hate EA as much as anybody else, but I cannot 
 possibly think of any other publisher who could afford to fund the development of this game. Even 
 though EA is even now making bioware look bad, bioware is on the ball, and has read pretty much 
 every post... they are working their butts off to make a patch for those having problems, and have 
 already spoken of an expansion that will be worked on in the future.
  
  Bioware is one of the few companies who will sit down with you on their forum and talk about every 
 gripe you have about the game. They are one of the few companies who not only cater to their gamers, 
 like Bethesda tries to do, but they do it successfully, and have a track record to prove it. It 
 hasn't always been easy, and they've gone through quite a few publishers. Some of the team members 
 might be from Black Isle, or other such developers, and so they had their own problems... but Bioware 
 never lets that keep them down. They are always doing their very best and I think they should be 
 given a round of applause. Too often do I whine and complain about the practices of developers, 
 but not this time. This time we offer thanks to bioware and companies like bioware alway doing 
 their very best, never getting lazy, never getting too upset or bent out of shape about whats going 
 on... they always keep their focus, and they always deliver quality; even when the odds are against 
 them.
  
  EA is totally messing things up for them, but they are totally dealing with it. They are doing 
 such a very good job. Bioware, as always, has a customer for life, in me. From all of us disgruntled 
 gamers who constantly whine about the indecent practices of certain developers, we thank you; Bioware, 
 the one company who shines above the rest.
  
  YOU ARE WHAT EVERY OTHER DEVELOPER WANTS TO BE.
  
  Congratulations on another great game release. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willissz19
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2008 12:15 am PT
Review:  I love RPG games, I've played many of them, and I can say confidently BioWare knows how to make 
 entertaining, innovative, and immersive RPG games better than anyone else, and Mass Effect continues 
 this trend.
  
  The story is amazing giving a sense of urgency and desperation as you hunt down a rogue Specter 
 discovering why he has made alliances with such destructive forces. The ending was truly epic and 
 has a couple different choice outcomes.
  
  Mass Effect offers huge amounts of interesting lore, all included in an in game codex as progression 
 through the game continues.
  
  All characters include voice acting, which is not superb on every character, but good enough to 
 where the voices will not ruin the game experience; some voice acting being better than others.
 
  
  The game presents a pretty good character creation scene giving the choice of the preset John Shepard 
 (Soldier class) , or a custom character, which allows face customization, six different classes 
 to choose from, which require different combat strategies, and biography background information, 
 which open different side-quests and dialogue choices during the game.
  
  There are plenty of choices during the games story and side-quests, including romances, giving 
 the game replay value.
  
  The combat for an RPG is new with a 3rd person shooter style. Each class receives different abilities, 
 offensive and defensive, offering more options than just bang bang. I found combat strategic between 
 ordering squad members on movement, defense, who to attack, and what abilities to use, retaining 
 an RPG combat feel, though different.
  
  Their are quite a few different abilities gained through talent points (different classes have 
 different talents) as your character levels. "Overload" disables enemy shields within a small radius. 
 "Lift" offers crowd control by, you guessed it, lifting an enemy into the air; when the ability 
 ends the enemy will take falling damage. "Barrier" offers the character shielding to absorb more 
 damage. These are three of many abilities, which I found all useful.
  
  Equipment is pretty diverse between armor and weapons, each provide add-on slots. Armor add-ons 
 grant different protections which are equipped based on who the enemy is, however, certain add-ons 
 are used more often than others, the same goes with weapons and ammo slots. There is one type of 
 grenade, which can be altered a bit through a grenade modification add-on.
  
  Mass Effect is an excellent and true action RPG, do not miss out if you're an RPG fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trickcdr
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  WOW! is a phrase I keep repeating while playing Mass Effect on the PC. The fluid facial animations, 
 the great scripting engine scenes that cut and pan like in a movie, the great dialog, the great 
 story, AND the great firefights!
  
  In recent memory, only Assassin's Creed has kept me playing "just one more mission" until I realize 
 it's 2am and I need to work in the morning!
  
  Highly polished graphics and vocals make this game feel like you are in a movie, and then WHAM! 
 you are back in the game trying to handle 10 enemies coming at you from different locations.
  
  Some fights can be just too much, until you learn to freeze the action so you can select which 
 weapon or biotic ability you want yourself and two team members to use, then you can catch your 
 breath and plan out a strategy.
  
  Of course, the pc version is superior because of the "QuickSave" feature, the reason I don't own 
 a X360 or PS3 is because I hate replaying a level over again. Plus I grew up on keyboard and mouse, 
 I just can't "shoot" with a gamepad.
  
  A game not be missed, a few bugs (got stuck then fell thru the floor one time, still was a cool 
 WOW! moment as I could see how big the level was.
  
  PROS: Graphics, Facial Animations, Vocals (top notch) , Story, Action, Variety, Teammates.
  
 
  CONS: Couple of bugs here and there but reload your quicksave to take care of those. The tank 
 buggy does not drive very realistic and gets kinda old driving across bumpy terrain (but it does 
 pack a nice tank round wallop!) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sridanu
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 3, 2008 10:51 pm PT
Review:  I know that Mass effect is classified as a RPG adventure game. But having played it and finished 
 it i got the feeling that it was more a Third Person Shooter (TPS) game with RPG elements rather 
 than other way around. 
  
  The story in Mass effect is undoubtedly one of the better ones. But it could have had a bit more 
 twist and turn to it to sweeten it up. 
  
  Gameplay is mostly based on TPS combat and rely very little on RPG elements. And although there 
 are many side quests most of them feel like running errands than actual quests and its likely that 
 you'll fail a quest because you are unable to find a location rather than being unable to understand 
 what to do next.
  
  The downside for me was the inventory which definitely gave you the feeling that this game was 
 a port. In most PC RPG games you get a more complex inventory that mergers it self with different 
 aspects of the game and even allows you to use items in quests. But this is not the case in ME. 
 In fact you dont even have to bend down and gather up things since all items automatically go into 
 your inventory as soon as you make a kill. Another annoying fact was that if the inventory was 
 full there was no way to make room for new items unless you destroyed existing ones.
  
  The Graphics , Voice Acting and Fighting is very good and is enjoyable most of the time. But there 
 seem to be a few AI issues with enemy combatons relating to side quests. 
  
  All in all if youre looking for more adventure and RPG rather than Fighting then this game is not 
 for you. But if you enjoy alot of fighting and a little bit og RPG mixed up with it then you should 
 try this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evrsouza
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 9:22 pm PT
Review:  I 'm really not a fan of RPG, but this one caught from the first time i played, very intense, very 
 addictive, a good gameplay and a very (Cliche) story. I recomment to everyone, because this game 
 can be played for casual RPG players like me, ( Last RPG played was Diablo) lol, Easy to learn, 
 A lot of Missions, Not as WoW of course, i didnt find this gameheavy, because the frame rate was 
 always up, with my spec a Athlon 64 X2 5000 4GB GF8800GT.
  and playing in Vista SP1. I spent i think some 30 Hrs to terminate this game, i think the game 
 could be some longer, just a little bit. The levels of the game have beutiful graphics, there is 
 a lot's of weapons (Shotguns, Assult Guns, Pistols) to choose, armors, Omni tools, and options for 
 munition, i liked that one, LOL, so i think this game is superb in what he is suppose to do, FUN 
 it's very fun, i recommend to every one, worth every ReAL, Dolar, EURO that you will spent to buy 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfschadowe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Let me get the bad out of the way. I was plagued by random lock-ups that required a three-fingered 
 salute followed by ending the Mass Effect process. Then it took me several tries of running the 
 game and getting an error 6000 message generated by the StarForce copy protection to get the running 
 again, only to be followed by another hang anywhere from 30 minutes to 4 hours later. A quick troll 
 of the support forums showed that the hang was a widespread problem and will likely be addressed 
 shortly in a patch. The 6000 error may have been related to my configuration, and while a minor 
 annoyance, it was aggravated by the frequent freezing. 
  There are some glitches with dynamic shadows, but turning those off in options made the game look 
 better anyway as shadows were still generally rendered. Finally, the brilliant conversation system 
 could have used a little more variety from the push-up for good and down for evil aspect. Mixing 
 them up and making the options a little vaguer would have been more interesting, but that's nit-picking.
 
  With that out of the way, the game is just plain fun. The game is definitely better than the sum 
 of it's parts. The voice acting is outstanding, the storyline is above average, and the overall 
 game play is just plain fun. If any of you played any of the Knights of the Old Republic series 
 and enjoyed them, then you will love Mass Effect. You could safely think of Mass Effect as KOTOR3 
 without Star Wars. 
  Even the conversation system was fun. Unlike most conversation systems, you get the option of how 
 to respond while the NPC is still talking, generally with a direction or tone to take the conversation. 
 You can make the selection immediately and the conversation will continue seamlessly like a cut 
 scene based upon your selection. If you don't choose in time then the conversation pauses like 
 most other RPG's and waits for your choice. 
  The combat system is also enjoyable. It is easy to advance your individual teammates through points 
 of cover while laying down suppressive fire forcing your opponents to either take cover or die 
 while your teammates move. Teammates will also fire from cover while you advance on the enemy. 
 This opened up a lot of strategy options for flanking opponents or breaching doors. It isn't perfect 
 but it is good enough to be fun without being annoying.
  Overall, this is exactly the type of game that I enjoy most, so I may be a little biased in my 
 opinion. It all really comes down to fun, and the problems that the game had did not detract from 
 the overall pure enjoyment of playing the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Havokk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 9:00 pm PT
Review:  A Bioware RPG. What could go wrong?
  
  Great story, emotionally engaging, believable, entertaining. Check.
  NPCs with personalities 
 and quirks. Check.
  Pretty graphics. Check.
  Combat that is good but not too complex or deep. Check.
  
  Its a must-buy.
  
  Unfortunately, 
 it is not perfect. 
  
  There are too many long, unskippable cutscenes before nasty fights. If you've just died for the 
 tenth time, watching the same 3 minute video gets old fast.
  
  The interface for equipment is clumsy. One, unsortable list for all items is unacceptable for a 
 PC game in the 21st century.
  
  The same internal map is reused far too many times. Is it too much to ask that there be more than 
 one internal building and one spaceship floor layout in the future?
  
  It's too short. I finished the game in less than a week, including doing all the sidequests I could 
 find.
  
  It's still a must-buy for PC RPG fans but it doesn't knock KOTOR of the top of the list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimrhurst
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. There, I said it. If you care to ignore my fanboyism and find out why I love 
 it, read on.
  
  I'm probably about 80-85% of my way through it now having completed 3/4 of the main set-piece worlds 
 and all but one sidequest. I've logged over 50 hours so far, and if I do complete it this will 
 be the first time in 10 years that I've seen the ending on a game of this size. There is not much 
 that I would say is revolutionary here, but in my opinion they have now mastered nearly every element 
 in this genre to a level unmatched by other development shops.
  
  They call this an action-RPG so I'll start with action. I haven't been much of a shooter player 
 since Goldeneye on N64 and I can get owned with the worst of the noobs on any modern FPS. But I 
 like a fun, engaging action experience as much as the next guy as long as its fairly forgiving. 
 (I'm a big fan of Mercenaries, for example.) Mass Effect does an outstanding job of blending its 
 two roles. Much of the time with the game is spent in combat and I have never found that combat 
 boring. Its visceral enough and requires my attention far more than a Diablo or NWN type of clickfest: 
 I feel like _I_ am killing the enemies rather than that I am clicking on them and my little avatar 
 is doing it. The weapons are suitably varied and very satisfying. And the ability to lift, throw 
 and gravitationally pull enemies around is great fun. Watching zombie-like husks swirl helplessly 
 around a singularity while my party and I gleefully pump them full of incendiary rounds and then 
 watch their lifeless bodies sail over a wall just never ever gets old. Several of the climactic 
 combats were particularly challenging and exciting and I had to replay them a number of times. 
 But overall the combat was probably a bit on the easy side for me on normal difficulty. Granted, 
 I was playing a soldier character, so your mileage may vary.
  
  The other half of your playtime will be spent in endless dialog with a whole host of NPCs from 
 major players to minor bit parts. Every single line by every single character is perfect, almost 
 without exception. I can count on one hand the number of lines (out of thousands) that came off 
 as flat or ham-fisted. This represents absolutely the greatest achievement in voice-acting I have 
 yet experienced, in any medium. The facial and body expressions are similarly outstanding. These 
 are closer to living, breathing characters than you are likely to find in most any other game. 
 I also really appreciate that your own character, Commander Shepard, delivers every one of his 
 or her own lines as well, unlike our mute hero from KOTOR or NWN2. The dialog options, some of 
 which are critically important, others cosmetic, all combine to make me feel more connected to 
 the hero. I weigh the decisions that Shepard will make; I feel more in control and less detached. 
 The main story is interesting and coherent and has kept me engaged throughout.
  
  The skill / leveling system also works to great effect. Each character on your team has their unique 
 strengths and plays differently, and depending on how you choose to level her up, your Tali might 
 play very differently than mine. All of the abilities are easy to understand and easy to use. There 
 is simultaneously enough overlap between characters to allow you to choose party members at least 
 partly by how much you enjoy their personality. There's tons of loot to collect and you can spend 
 quite a bit of time mixing and matching weapons and upgrades for all the members of your party. 
 And those of us who waited patiently for the PC version don't have to endure the frustrating inventory 
 system on the XBOX
  
  I have but a few minor complaints to make, the first of which is the lack of variety in environments 
 in the sidequests and uncharted worlds. I absolutely love that the galaxy seems so full of different 
 star systems and planets to explore; its fundamental to the feeling of immersion. But it would 
 be nice if there were more than a half dozen maps: one single map for every mine you ever enter, 
 every freighter you ever board, every science station you ever explore. I have fought my way through 
 the same exact building 20 times by now. In their defense however, a friend who works in game development 
 asked me would I be willing to give up one of the major plot worlds / missions for a greater variety 
 in these subquests. With very little hesitation I said "no way." In tribute to Bioware I must say 
 that each of the major plot worlds is just outstanding. Every detail is believable and makes you 
 feel that this is a unique, fully formed world. You feel as if you are exploring just a corner 
 of a very large world, not that you are confined to an artificially small place. I would often 
 just stop running or stop the Mako and just peer around, taking in the scenery. All the NPCs you 
 see (and there are plenty enough of them to make it feel inhabited) have something to say, even 
 if its just a line or two. And no two ever say the same thing.
  
  The AI on my teammates is also very occasionally buggy. I have at times been frantically trying 
 to gun down oncoming enemies only to have my weapon overheat and have to watch helplessly as my 
 teammates fire round after round into a pillar or other interceding object. They also on rare occasions 
 get irrevocably stuck on a piece of geometry, requiring a simple save and reload to reposition 
 them. These incidents were few enough so as to be easily overlooked, but I couldn't help but wonder 
 if I were playing a weaker combat class would I find myself more vulnerable to the occasional tactical 
 combat lapses of my more deadly teammates.
  
  In sum, this is hands-down the best RPG I have played in a long time, maybe ever. It is simultaneously 
 very satisfying as an action experience, never succumbing to the monotony of most click-fest action 
 RPGs. Though it wouldn't satisfy most in the hardcore shooter audience, its more than exhilarating 
 enough for most RPG gamers while remaining very accessible. I think this represents the new genre-blurring 
 experience we are going to see from top-tier developers of this generation. If you have ever enjoyed 
 an RPG in your life, you should give this one a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ekstrakt
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 2, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  This game was supposed to be one of the best games this year, but it's just another disappointment.
 
  As a game, it might be a good one, but there are many aspects "borrowed" from other games. It 
 looks and feels too much like "Deus Ex 2: Invisible War".
  It has some kind of freedom, but it's only an imitation. You can't roam around too freely, which 
 is contradictory with the creators statement that it's ORPG. Yes, you can walk around and visit 
 some planets, but once you've been there, you have nothing more to do.
  While we're at the planets, another annoyance: this game has the WORST ever driving. With the "MACO" 
 (the vehicle) you can drive wherever you want. No obstacles, no hills, no mountains. You can drive 
 on a almost totally vertical surface. And you can't crash or even turn over the vehicle. Falling 
 from more than 300 meters, and it's lands perfectly and without a scratch.
  The RPG element is somewhere there, present, but not quite. It has an experience scale, levels, 
 adding points, gaining skills; all that a RPG represents. That's the good part. But when it comes 
 to the equipment, it's a little thinking needed. You get so much equipment that you don't look 
 for it, it comes right to you. That way you'll have more money than you ever imagined and absolutely 
 nothing to spend them on. As for the equipping, you just look at the graph bars, and that's it.
 
  The graphics are good, can't say a bad word about that. On the other hand, the music sometimes 
 can be very very annoying.
  But one of the most disappointing aspects is that there are just a few different  
 They are all the same. You've seen one, you've seen them all. Waaayyyyy to repetitive.
  One good thing in this game is the story. That will be the only thing that'll make someone want 
 to end the game. 
  
  All in all, a very repetitive and disappointing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Story/Gamplay: 10/10
  - This game offers one of the most solid and intriguing stories that I have every played in a game. 
 The title refers to 'mass effect' technology. which basically is a technique of using mass-manipulating 
 alien jump-gates to travel through the universe, and for use in many of your weapons and tools. 
 The whole game is spent in huge citadels and traveling the universe to complete various missions 
 and your main mission.
  
  Environment & Immersion: 10/10
  - The environments are interesting and differ from planet to planet. One of the best things in 
 the game is the way you talk to other people, It gives you the RPG style "pick what you want to 
 say" speech. You can be neutral in conversations, you can be very nice, or you can even be a jerk. 
 The RPG side of the game really opens up the availability in what all you can do. There is also 
 a huge selection of items and weapons that you can find or get through the game.
  
  Graphics/Physics: 9/10
  - Graphics were up to current standards for being great, however there 
 of course is still better out there. Regardless, the graphics and physics are great, especially 
 both environmental and combat graphics.
  
  Sound: 8.5/10
  - Music was good and the environment and combat sound was even better, but the best was the speech. 
 The voice quality in the game is among the best I've heard. Seth Green plays the voice part of 
 Joker in the game.
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 9/10
  - No bugs to be found here but it was possible for a crash, during the entire gameplay the game 
 crashed about twice, luckly the autosaves will bounce you back to where you were. Performance was 
 great, no lag or choppiness in any part of the game.
  
  Replay value: 8/10
  - The game is pretty long, roughly 20 or more hours of gameplay. After playing you probably won't 
 instantly want to play through it again but you might consider it more being the way you played 
 you character on this one will supposedly effect you character on the next one. What this means 
 is that you could essentially create a character of every style to be able to see all sides of 
 the story and the alternative endings.
  
  Value/Originality: 9.5/10
  - Game is certainly original in both its style, story and mix of genres. I would definitely suggest 
 going out and buying this whenever your ready for your next game purchase. I really hope somemore 
 games are released with as deep of story line and as good of style soon.
  
  Will this game be remembered by old school gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - Absolutely, 
 this game certainly left a good mark with most gamers.
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - Anyone who owns a Xbox 360 and now anyone who can 
 play it on their PC.
  
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 9 - This is by far one of the best current games for both Xbox 360 and PC. I highly suggest 
 getting this Sci-FI Action RPG! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakeeater3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  I recently got Mass Effect just a few months ago and realised that this was a new revolutionary 
 RPG game. To be honest, I was expecting a game using the engine of BioWare's previos RPG game: 
 Knights of the Old Republic and got a pleasent surprise.
  I was glad to see the game development has progressed so far to creating such in depth characters, 
 improved graphics and a general new way of stylising an RPG, shooting with 3rd-person aiming rather 
 than mathematical statistics.
  Having said that however, the game upon first presentation seems to me personally, a little too 
 futuristic. We are presented with a lot of new information and a lot of dark rifts in the context 
 of the Mass Effect world to not spoil future plot elements. Once you get your head around the intense, 
 new storyline you are greeted with a unique RPG gameplay style. 3rd-person shooting for an RPG 
 is both interesting and difficult. I personally am a classic RPG player, your Final Fantasys, KOTORs 
 and World of Warcrafts do me fine. Adjusting to a shooter was a bit of a big jump for me. 
  Additionally, dealing with the performance of my CPU not being able to smooth out gameplay due 
 to graphical system demands I assume that the shooting would work fine and is therefore a pat on 
 the back to BioWare for coming up with such a unique mechanic.
  What is also nice to see is that you no longer play as a quirky, dorky preset-face character but 
 you can make your own. (Nothing wrong with the original Male & Female Shepards) . Being a perfectionist, 
 this part of the game took up 10 minutes of my actual playtime, which isn't a complaint, just a 
 compliment at BioWare's extensive customisation mechanic. (I had to download a Bastila Face mod 
 to get through KOTOR II :) ) 
  The game sucks you in until you get to a certain point in the game, after you disembark from your 
 ship and after the events of Eden Prime, you're left wondering what to do. The world seems pretty 
 open until you discover the very linear paths forged in the game area. Shepard's motions are also 
 limited to a simple jog, there's no jumping, rolling, but there is a nice Cover mechanic which 
 is again a first for RPGs.
  On the whole, the game performs like a 3rd person shooter, the storyline and the exposure to the 
 Mass Effect world can do your head in sometimes, but once you get passed that aspect of the game, 
 you can enjoy the unique game mechanics, excellent voice acting and hard dedication of the BioWare 
 team. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nailex
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 1, 2008 1:26 am PT
Review:  1. Technical Issues
  2. Graphics
  3. Story
  4. Gameplay
  5. Multiplayer
  
  
  1. Technical Issues - Unlike most other games i have reviewed Mass Effect suffers from a lot of 
 minor technical issues. The anti-piracy system EA had put into the game is quite annoying. I haven't 
 tested it myself but another review said that you can only install the game 3 TIMES, or in 3 different 
 computers, or reinstrall your windows 3 times. After that you just can't use your key. Quite annoying 
 if you have bought the game. As i doubt you will bought it again you will most likely be forced 
 to get a pirate version.
  During your play you will find a few quite annoying technical bugs (nothing a patch can't fix though) . 
 The first one is the considerable loading time when you start the game. Most likely it is the check 
 of the stupid anti-piracy system (as a note it took one more day for the crackers to overcome it...) . 
 Another bug is the sometimes after an interaction with some object (galaxy map, a talk with a NPC) 
 your game just stuck. You can see your character but you can't do anything - cannot move, cannot 
 save. The most annoying bug of all is that sometimes your weapon just don't cooldown when you overheat 
 it (read the gameplay section for details) . This can be quite annoying especially when it happens 
 during the final battle when you have heavily specialized in one weapon type and it bugs and you 
 are forced to use something you are not proficient with.
  
  2. Graphics - The most beautiful Bioware RPG i've played so far. The game have incredibly good 
 atmosphere and especially in the beginning you may feel that you are not playing a game but participating 
 in a movie. 
  
  3. As in all Bioware RPG the STORY is what make this game what it is. A very good story. This is 
 the thing which made me play the game till the end. A very good addition to this paragraph is the 
 CODEX entries you encounter during the game. Those are pieces of information that are wriiten in 
 you journal and if you read it you will understand how real the Mass Effect Universe is. Every 
 race have their traditions, even the principles of the weapons are explained. Unfortunately not 
 everything is so good. As all other Bioware RPG's Mass Effect suffers from the same illness. It's 
 linear story. No matter what you do, how you do it, whether you act like GOOD/LIGHT/PARAGORN/PALM 
 or as BAD/DARK/RENEGADE/FIST player it doesn't make quite a difference. No matter what you say 
 the NPC's will follow their scripted dialogs, and the biggest change will be the next line they 
 will say. In some cases you may lose a quest or gain another but thats all. Also as it is published 
 by EA it seems that the game was rushed at the end. Your squad mates are very cursorily developed. 
 I never really get attached to them (oh well i got attached to 2 of the cause i needed to play 
 most of the game with them so i can unlock achievements) . You can do like... 4 Dialogs with them 
 on the ship - each before one of the main quests. The replicas your squad mates say during some 
 of the encounters on contrary make them looks like are more alive then they are. Also the Main 
 missions are only 5 or 6 - You can rush them for a few hours if you wish (well you will most likely 
 die at the final battle if you do this though) . The secondary quest are interesting in the beginning 
 but after you have landed on a few planets you noticed it is all of the same. Land on a planet, 
 move through the map, find something useful (metals, artifacts etc.) go clear the facility this 
 planet have (if you have a secondary quest for this planet ofc)
  
  
  4. Gameplay - The Gameplay of Mass Effect is action based unlike KOTOR (no more d20 and turns) You 
 have shooting weapons and biotics/tech skills (something like the force skills from KOTOR) at your 
 disposal. Otherwise you may say we have a RPG/Tactical Shooter gameplay, although the screen for 
 giving orders is quite unpractical due to the console nature of the game. There is 4 main weapon 
 types you can use (Pistols, Shotguns, Assault Rifles and snipers) and 3 support items (granade 
 launcher and 2 items specific for the Biotic and Tech based characters) . I strongly recommends 
 you to use Assault Rifles - the shoot like 10 times faster then pistols and shotguns and do more 
 damage. The Snipers are completely useless. They do damage as a single bullet from the Assault 
 Rifle, but you can fire them like 1 per 5 second (compared with like 10 per second from the assault 
 rifle) and if you managed to hit someone it will most likely be based on pure luck as sight moves 
 so much that you are unable to aim properly. Each weapon have a number of shots it can shoot before 
 it overheats. After that you should wait a little to cool down if of course you didn't stuck with 
 the bug and have your weapon useless. The biotic skills are quite hard to use as the targeting 
 system is made for game pads.
  
  5. Multyplayer - None.
  
  
  Despite all the negatives I've said about Mass Effect, i had a lot of fun playing it. Especially 
 in the beginning. But i don't think it is better then the KOTORS. Still i advice you to bought 
 the game i play it as it is one very good game. Just don't believe the hype so much 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brayzenn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 1:12 am PT
Review:  Simply one of the best RPG's I have ever played. Yes, there are a few minor glitches requiring 
 the game to be restarted on occasion, but nothing 
  that disrupts the fun enough to harm the experience. My favorite aspects of the game follow:
 
  
  1) Story..... great writing! the story unfolds nicely whether you just stick to the main missions 
 or get involved with the side quests also.
  
  2) voice acting.... voice acting is very well done. It is so refreshing to find a game with believable 
 voice where it doesn't sound like someone is just reading from a dialogue sheet.
  
  3) freedom.... by freedom I mean that the lore (which is stored in a codec for you) , and alot of 
 the "extra" dialogue aren't forced on you. there are plenty of both, but if you like a faster pace, 
 most of these can be skipped without harming the overall experience . My personal opinion is that 
 all the lore and extra character interaction is very well done and worth the time to experience. 
 Nice to have the freedom to choose though.
  
  
  These are my favorite aspects but I feel safe in saying everything about the game is well done 
 and comes together to make an excellent, immersive game. My only complaint with the game is more 
 of a compliment, it keeps me playing when I should be sleeping.
  
  enjoy
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ribtor
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  I love this game, it's has some great action, and story. I don't feel the need to skip the dialog 
 movies like in KOTOR, and in fact I enjoy watching them. Over all this game is polished, not really 
 lacking in any area. Weapons and armor look just amazing. I love the new looks of each armor type 
 and advancment of most races armors is smooth and continuous. The weapons upgrades are meaningful 
 and useful with many combinations. Space travel and planet exploration is a great advancement to 
 the typical liner RPG.
  
  The one fault I can give it though is the long wait times on the elevators. I can leave the computer 
 and come back it waiting in the elevator. I find this is the worst in the Citadel.
  
  If you like RPG's you do not want to miss Mass Effect for the PC, it's got all the best RPG elements 
 in one tight package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hanno555
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  When I first bought the game and tried to start it up (that was Saturday the 28th) it would not 
 start. I found that I needed to turn off Vista's User Advisory and then run the program from the 
 folder it was installed to once. It still wouldn't run. So I updated every driver I could and ran 
 as administrator again and 28 hours later its running glitch free.
  
  I went with the custom male the first time then custom female the second. Character creation is 
 slick and easy. You can tweak just about every aspect of the character's facial features. I spent 
 a couple of hours getting the face just right on the female and not so long on the male. When the 
 game started I was pleased with the results for both. Sometimes the characters created with these 
 creators don't look the same once the game starts. Not so here.
  
  The back story on the characters involved and the main story are engaging. I found myself caring 
 whether my squad mates made it out alive with me. The main story is somewhat derivative, but I'd 
 like to read the book. It would make an excellent movie, as long as Uwe Boll Stays away from it!.
 
  
  The interface was easy to use and did not have the normal clutziness one would expect from a port. 
 It was intuitive and took almost no time to learn. It was here, though, that I ran into one of 
 the few things that irk me about the game. The tutorial popups. Very tiresome, yet I didn't want 
 to turn them off incase I missed something important. The game should not bring up the tutorial 
 popup after maybe the second time using a new command. 
  
  Combat was easy to get into, although I found that my squad were somewhat useless, unless I missed 
 something. When being fired at, combat veterans will take cover and THEN find out where the fire 
 is being directed from. Not these guys, they stand there, taking hits until you tell them to move 
 somewhere. The side effect of all that is it forces you to move in a more tactical manner so that 
 your most vulnerable squad members are not exposed at the beginning of the fight.
  
  The only other thing that I find annoying about the game is the MAKO. Drive one today and you'll 
 see what I mean.
  
  Overall I rate this game high. It is a fun experience and I will enjoy replaying it once I finish 
 it. I recommend this game to anyone who liked the KOTOR series and sci-fi buffs in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  Read my full review and score breakdown at:
  http://www. poland. us/strona,33,2671,0. html
  
  For those of you haven't played Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic or any other Bioware 
 games, I suggest you stop reading this review and get up to speed. Bioware is a legendary developer 
 in the field of Role-Playing Games, epitomizing the Western approach to presenting and creating 
 such adventures. Where companies like Bethesda present wide-open worlds to explore and interact 
 with, at the expense of losing depth and story focus, Bioware serves up unique and cinematic experiences 
 that often leave you on the edge of your seat and unable to let go of a game until its over. Baldur's 
 Gate, Neverwinter Nights, KOTOR, and several others have all been critically-acclaimed for their 
 innovation and gripping immersion. Bioware's latest epic, first released late 2007 on the Xbox 
 360 to critical acclaim and popularity, has quickly made its way to the developer's birthplace, 
 the PC. With a score of improvements that challenge the laziness of other developers when attempting 
 console-to-PC conversions, Mass Effect feels like a full-blown PC game built from the ground up. 
 Although there are quirks, some surviving the porting process, Bioware has once again managed to 
 stand out in an industry that has been lately flourishing on all platforms.
  
  Unlike the majority of Bioware's games, Mass Effect is a science-fiction epic that spans over 30-40 
 hours of gameplay for the completionist. Those looking to compare the game to previous Bioware 
 classics should really look at KOTOR as a precursor. As I played through the game, a load of overall 
 improvements, in story, gameplay and graphics, began to reveal themselves one by one.
  
  To start off, the game tells you to pick the premade character that Bioware has been using in all 
 of those trailers, or create your own. You get a ton of choices, from different facial features, 
 to the background of your character as you play. You also pick your character's class, which mainly 
 consists of Soldiers, Adepts (who possess "Force" powers) , Engineers, Infiltrators, and certain 
 mixes of these. From there, you're plopped into a story that spans the entire galaxy. The basic 
 set-up is this: In the early 2100s, humanity found artifacts on Mars which alerted them to presence 
 of intelligent life outside our solar system. After an initial war with the Turian race which got 
 the notice of the rest of the galaxy, humanity became the new kid on the block, trying to fit in 
 and prove itself as a contributive member.
  
  The game borrows heavily from games like Gears of War or GRAW 360 for its movement and combat. 
 You play Commander Shepard from a 3rd person perspective and fight similarly. This is enhanced 
 by the biotic powers previously mentioned, which enhance your characters with Force like moves 
 (Push, Levitate, Stasis, etc.) This showcases some of the more dramatic improvements over the KOTOR 
 series, which was a dramatically-disguised turn-based affair. It feels much more dynamic and fast-paced, 
 which makes the gameworld feel a bit more believable.
  
  The focus of Bioware's development is always on the story and the included character interactions. 
 To start off, the story could might as well be featured in a science-fiction blockbuster, but the 
 game format allows it to be stretched and fleshed out over the courase of about 20 hours. This 
 allows Bioware to include many twists and turns which take the story in some interesting directions. 
 The main quest is gripping and hard to walk away from. Unfortunately, the sidequests get a little 
 monotonous, with the standard fetch and slay types representing an overwhelming majority of them. 
 The planets you visit for these quests are often barren wastelands with two or three points of 
 interest and no interactive characters.
  
  Fortunately, the interactive aspect of Mass Effect is also impressive. You get several dialogue 
 choices that can take some story arcs in several directions. They often correspond to Paragon or 
 Renegade behaviors, the game's analogue for the Light and Dark side in KOTOR. These don't have 
 as dramatic an effect on the story as they do in KOTOR, but they are fun to experiment with nonetheless.
 
  
  The game uses a modified version of Unreal Engine 3, with the facial animations being surprisingly 
 realistic. Characters are animated believingly, with them gesturing realistically and avoiding 
 the uncanny valley. The voice acting is superb and the music is a nice blend of old school techno 
 and orchestral tracks that helps make Mass Effect's universe believingly different from other sci-fi 
 fantasies.
  
  Mass Effect's only real problem (besides its lazy side quests) is its inventory system. While improved 
 over the 360 version, the inventory is a pain to navigate through, with no filter or organization 
 options. This makes buying and selling more difficult than it should be, but fortunately doesn't 
 detract too much from the overall game experience as you'll be constantly finding loot and money.
 
  
  Bioware has hit another homerun with Mass Effect, a narrative masterpiece that improves on the 
 gameplay mechanics of previous games. While it has taken a while to come to PC and is still a host 
 to several issues, the overall package is a blast to play through and marvel at. The story-telling 
 and character interaction should be used as a model by other Western RPG developers to make their 
 games a more immersive and believable experience. Mass Effect is one adventure you shouldn't miss. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vinnym26
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  Graphics - 7 /10 Good graphics but look slightly dated compared to some recent pc releases, there 
 are some glitches like dodgy shadows on faces, but overall not bad.
  
  gameplay - 7/10 Has a mix of role playing and third person shooter. This works well but there are 
 a few annoying things i didnt like, for example a little to much time running around without much 
 action and standing in lifts, the side quests are mostly boring. Plus a few other things. On the 
 plus side the main story missions are very good and the biotic powers are nice and the controls 
 are very easy to use especially with the hotkeys.
  
  Story - 8/10 One of the better parts of the game will make you wanna play till the end for sure.
 
  
  Sound - 9/10 Probably the best part of the game, the voice acting is some of the best in a computer 
 game.
  
  Longevity - 7/10 without the side quests the story isnt overly long but if you did every mission 
 in the game which i didnt there is a very long game here.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cgobeil
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2008 12:21 am PT
Review:  Yes this game is superb and the graphics are awesome (if you have the system to run the game at 
 ultra high textures) but there are a few glitch here and there... Don't get me wrong, there are 
 just a few bugs and they don't affect the quality of the game (if you find how to solve the bugs 
 like the overheat bug when you have to change weapons when your weapon would stay stuck on overheat) 
 but in my opinion the best aspect of this game is it's story and how you can choose how your character 
 will evolve within that story... you can choose to be good (Paragon) and the opposite (Renegade) 
 or play within these two extremes. Also the world depicted in this game feels very real and some 
 people you will get to meet will ask you to join your mission against "Saren" and the reapers... 
 heck there's even the possibility for romance wether you choose to play as male or female! So far 
 I completed the game once as John Shepard but I didnt do all the sub quests and assignments so 
 I'm playing it again as Jane Shepard... It feels kinda weird to play the game after you've finished 
 it as a male character but playing it as female is very fun also since the voice actors doing the 
 male and female versions of the game are so good!
  
  Finally, if you loved Star Wars KOTOR you're gonna love this new gem by Bioware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JwresB
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2008 8:45 pm PT
Review:  As an ancient mechanical race known as the Reapers threatens to exterminate all biological life 
 across the galaxy, only one human named Commander Shepard can uncover its plans. Similar to previous 
 Bioware games like Jade Empire, you have a chance to choose between being a fair and just Paragon 
 or a ruthless Renegade when dealing with other characters. Building up a strong reputation with 
 either behavior allows you to put points into Charm or Intimidation attributes, which leads to 
 different merchant bonuses and unlocks influential dialog options. However, both Charm and Intimidation 
 dialog responses produce the same results in different ways.
  
  Although the game suffers from a few minor bugs, including a small number of missions that don't 
 show as completed when finished, some computer controlled teammates that have trouble following 
 orders and occasional glitches when switching between movement and hacking mode, the PC version 
 of Mass Effect is superior to the Xbox 360 release. The mouse and keyboard controls are so natural 
 that they improve the game's performance at practically every level. Combat benefits from the precise 
 controls and large number of hotkeys, plus it's much easier to work around the AI teammates that 
 have a tendency to wander into the line of fire.
  
  Even the planet lander vehicle works better. Although it still bounces around like an over-inflated 
 balloon, managing its turret while moving is much better. Strong controls have a domino effect, 
 making the entire game more enjoyable. Not to mention the handy tutorial that teaches you the game's 
 intricacies as you play, specific to the PC version. The only annoying aspects are a couple of 
 puzzles, particularly the memory core one, that require an exceptional amount of guesswork and 
 luck to complete. Thankfully, players can bypass these puzzles if there's enough of the omni gel 
 resource available.
  
  Sadly, even though there's a decent number of side quests, including a few that are linked to your 
 character's custom background, the main campaign story is tremendously short. Depending on how 
 far you want to level your character before hitting the final confrontation, Mass Effect can be 
 beaten in well under a day. You can then restart the game using improved gear and skills, but as 
 fun as that is, replaying the campaign further underscores how short the game is. Also, many of 
 the side quests look and play almost identically, so you won't be missing much if you decide not 
 to give it another go. So while Mass Effect may not offer a great deal of replay value out of the 
 box, it looks like there will be a steady amount of downloadable content, starting with the Bring 
 Down the Sky add-on that will be free for the PC version.
  
  Anyone looking for a spectacular sci-fi RPG and has the necessary system requirements should pick 
 up the PC version. The game that was already exceptional on the Xbox 360 is even better on the 
 PC, so it's really a no brainer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joebd80
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 11:15 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a great action game with role-playing features. I wouldn't dare call it a RPG, and 
 definitely not in the same league with greats like the Elder Scrolls, Fallout or Deus Ex series. 
 This is more a warning than a criticism.
  
  Aesthetically speaking, Mass Effect is gorgeous. I was quite amazed by the character textures in 
 particular, especially close-up during dialog sequences. Everything looked great, and the audio 
 was great too. The voice acting was on the mark, for the most part, but some of the script writing 
 was sub-par.
  
  Character creation was very basic. You begin by choosing a background, such as place of origin 
 and your reputation in the military, but each is limited to three choices, and besides some dialog 
 differences have no effect on the story or your character. Additionally, you can choose your class 
 and customize your character's face, but nothing too spectacular here. Class similar determines 
 what skills you have access to for the duration of the game to level-up. As an avid RPGer, I could 
 easily spend an hour creating my character in Oblivion or Neverwinter Nights 2, but Mass Effect 
 doesn't provide nearly that much customization. The ability to customize class and choosing individual 
 skills, or having no classes at all, with dozens of skills you can pick and choose to increase 
 as you level would have been nice.
  
  Gameplay consists primarily of dialog and combat. You're only required to complete the main missions, 
 but there are numerous side missions. Unfortunately, I found the side missions overly redundant 
 and found myself bored of them by the later half of the game. In most cases the side missions consisted 
 of visiting a planet, driving across a mountainous section of the planet scanning minerals and 
 debris you come across and entering a research facility or mine and killing a dozen bad guys. These 
 buildings looked the same based on type, and had the same interior layout, with the exception of 
 cargo boxes arranged differently. I consider this just laziness by BioWare, at worse a way to even 
 say Mass Effect is remotely RPG by throwing in some lame side missions.
  
  That said, the main missions -- the storyline -- is the meat and potatoes here. Your ultimate job 
 is to chase down a rouge agent named Saren and discover what he wants with ancient artifacts. This 
 is linear for the most part, though the middle of it does allow you to choose which planet to visit 
 in which order.
  
  Sadly, the storyline wasn't without its flaws. For example, you have the option to kill or release 
 certain characters or creatures during your journey, and the dialog from your teammates would present 
 pros and cons, as if to suggest there may be a result to your actions later in the game, but I 
 didn't see any. It leaves it wide open as it what, if anything, happens due to your actions, and 
 there is little in Mass Effect that shows your actions have any effect besides continuing the scripted 
 story.
  
  It took me almost 29 hours to complete Mass Effect. While this is far superior to the mere 5 hours 
 it took me to complete Call of Duty 4, it is barely half the time I spent playing Gothic 3, or 
 Oblivion.
  
  Despite its utter RPG flaws, as an action FPS, I found Mass Effect quite nice, and the limited 
 RPG features did entice me. It was fun to run and gun with dialog sequences mixed in, and unfold 
 the story along the way. I would certainly like to see BioWare learn some tricks from the folks 
 at Bethesda in regards to character creation, open-ended gameplay and your actions influencing 
 the world. This probably won't happen, so I'll enjoy Mass Effect as it is, a great action pseudo-RPG 
 game that falls short on both fronts, neither an Oblivion, nor a Call of Duty 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: with_teeth26
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  I just beat biowares Mass Effect for the first time, and i am very impressed. The story is really 
 neat, and any questions you might have early on in the game are answered. When you first open the 
 galaxy map in this game, you will be awed by the massive size of the game, with all the different 
 areas you can go and explore. unfortunately, the main quest line takes you to only a few of the 
 areas, and doesn't make it really easy to do get into the side quests, where it seems the bulk 
 of the games gameplay is hidden. I did mainly the main quest on my first playthough, i did a few 
 sidequests but not a lot. i finished in a dissapointing 13 hours, to be honest i was excpecting 
 more. 
  it's fairly easy to get a good idea of what this game looks like, it uses the highley popular Unreal 
 Engine 3, which is unfortunately deseigned for consoles, so be prepared for a lack of in game AA 
 support and loads of texture pop in when you load a save game or enter a new level. The level deseign 
 for the main quest missions is rather impressive, with incredible variety. Landscapes range from 
 Desolate, frozen wastelands to lush, green environments, to massive urban cities. the smaller planets 
 where side quests take place are mostly very barren and rocky, with a couple of points of interest 
 scattered about the map. this is where the vehicle sections come in. you get to drive the MAKO, 
 a kind of armored personell carrier of the future, with big bouncy tires and somewhat useless jets. 
 now this thing handles like it only has one wheel. if you just tap a button to steer to the left 
 or right, you will find your self doing a 90 degree turn. driving in a straight line is almost 
 impossible, and you will be weaving all over the road completley out of control. the vehicle has 
 2 guns, a machine gun and a rocket launching thingy. 
  now lets get down to the gameplay. you will spend most of your time doing two things; shooting 
 and talking. the dialogue is very well done, with extremely detailed facial animations, and superb 
 voice acting. You are given a choice in what your character says, with a conversation wheel. usually 
 the choices you are given have little outcome on what happens in the conversation, it just lets 
 you decide how rude you want to be. it does, occasionally, have an impact on what happens, like 
 about accepting quests, or deciding whether or not to kill someone. the combat is decent, with 
 a somewhat buggy cover system, and weapons that overheat rather than use bullets. you can also 
 use a number of biotic powers, such as lift or throw your enemies, which you can use your self, 
 or order your squadmates to use. you can select your weapon from your inventory, and atttatch a 
 couple of mods to it, which i didn't really find that helpfull until the end. 
  overall, Mass Effect is an incredible game, with a compelling story, amazing character development 
 (i found myself connecting with some characters and hating others) , and entertaining gameplay. 
 i would reccomend this game to rpg and shooter fans alike, but i'd reccomend doing side quests 
 earlier in the game, it's easier and will extend your experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robsmits
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  Bioware's latest RPG has to be their best yet. It's a sci-fi RPG for one thing & they don't come 
 along very often. With standard fantasy RPG's you don't require anywhere near as much imagination. 
 Orc's & Goblins have been overused since Tolkien invented them many moons ago. With Mass Effect 
 however, it's full of interesting alien characters & planets to visit. Each alien race has it's 
 own history & lore. It seems however that only Americans made it into the depths of space to meet 
 all these alien races & surprise surprise all the aliens speak a healthy tone of American. This 
 is'nt a bad thing overall as the acting is pure class & we may have been waiting forever if the 
 developers decided to make up alien languages like Klingon. The always excellent Kieth David voices 
 Captain Anderson but he was the only voice i recognised without checking the acting credits. Every 
 character you'll meet is beautifully brought to life through the quality animation & hollywood 
 acting. 
  
  The story for Mass Effect is fairly straight forward but still very absorbing. I'm not going to 
 go into it here to avoid spoilers but from start to finish the entire experience is a joy. As with 
 other Bioware RPG's you don't always have to be purely a good guy. In Mass Effect, even though 
 you can't be evil so to say, you can earn what are called Renegade points. You earn these by being 
 ruthless, unsympathetic & showing disrespect for your peers. On the other side of the coin you 
 can be caring, understanding & go out your way to help all for Paragon points. You can do both 
 if you wish as the more points you acrue the more dialogue options become available. If you play 
 purely renegade then only red dialogue options will be available for the most part when your given 
 choices. For me playing as renegade is much more fun than paragon.
  
  Graphically ME is quite a pretty looking game though not the best use of the U3 engine. Facial 
 animations however are some of the most impressive ever seen in a game. The planets you can land 
 on with the Mako vehicle also look very impressive but some of the levels i found to be a bit bland 
 with too many empty corridor.
  
  Another thing ME does incredibly well is music. I'm after the soundtrack to this game because it 
 is superb. The pulsing ambient music is perfect for this game & never gets repetitive. 
  
  As with most RPG's ME is full of side quests to boost experience levels before the big boss fights 
 at the end. These can be quite entertaining at first but you soon realise that you can't actually 
 explore space as much as you'd hoped. You could travel to one star system & not find a single planet 
 to land on & then another which only lets you carry out one survey. It would have been nice if 
 all the star systems would have been packed with diverse side quests but on the other hand the 
 development time of the game would have been extended so it's fair enough really.
  
  The biggest fault for ME though not a critical one is the handling of the Mako vehicle. Honestly 
 a giant ice cube on wheels could handle better. Ok so you can pretty much drive over mountains 
 with it but the physics just feel all wrong. Using the Mako got boring fast.
  
  I found Mass Effect to be as good as an RPG as i've ever played, & the fact that it's sci-fi makes 
 it even more great. I just don't know if i could ever go back to boring old Orc's & Goblin's after 
 this. The story is wonderful, acting is 1st class, graphics are very decent & the music is perfect 
 for the game. Another criticism of the game is that take all the side missions away & there is 
 only about 12-15 hours of gameplay for the main quest, but you'd be a fool to rush this game. I 
 clocked in at over 30 hours on my 1st play but i sure took my time. As i say this is a unique game 
 & should not be rushed. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xeis-net
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 25, 2008 6:01 am PT
Review:  Great game when it works, but if you have Vista I would strongly recommend not buying this game. 
 Running under Vista business with UAC off and Virus checkers switched off, it still is the only 
 app on the machine unable to see the internet, this means the seriously intrusive DRM prevents 
 the game running. It is possible to fix this by deleting key dlls from the games install directory, 
 but this is seriously dodgy way to have to run a game (imo) .
  
  Further the game regularly collapses mid conversation with errors that appear to originate from 
 the graphics libraries. This has the effect of meaning you never fight opponents twice as you find 
 yourself saving every time you turn a corner.
  
  In recent years with the emergence of "Games for Windows" I had forgotten just what a pain Windows 
 could be to run games under (I buy about ~25 games per year for the PC) this game reminds you why 
 consoles are so popular and is by far the worst BioWare title on a PC.
  
  All in all the game play is fun and the conversations are very detailed, the gameplay is similar 
 to KOTR / KOTR II and better the Jade Empire, but still not worth the heartache in getting the 
 game running.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Since I don't have an XBOX 360, when I first heard about Mass Effect being released for the PC 
 I went straight to the store and pre-ordered. I had heard such great things about the game from 
 friends who play console games, and the closest games that were along the same genre as Mass Effect 
 for the PC last year were S. T. A. L. K. E. R. and Bioshock. (Both great games indeed, but S. T. A. L. K. E. R. 
 having quite a few glitches in the gameplay...)
  
  So after being teased with S. T. A. L. K. E. R. on a shooter w/ RPG element, i am overwhelmed to see 
 a game like Mass Effect that does an even better job of blending the two elements together! I would 
 honestly say that in the ten + years that I've been playing PC games, I've never came across a 
 game that has done the job as Mass Effect! You want an RPG element? You've got it! You want story 
 interaction similar to the old school Wing Commander cutscenses, (where you directly influence 
 the manner of dialogue and characters interactions in the story based upon yours) ? it's there. 
 Oh, and speaking of old school, you want a cool APC/tank that looks and plays like the kick ass 
 one from Nintendo's "Master Blaster"?!?!!? Got that here!!! And of course, you want to blow people 
 away with a shotgun, assault rifle, or snipe somebody? No question, you've got it here!
  
  The graphics are amazing on this game as well! VERY NICELY DONE on the part of the guys designing 
 it from platform to PC. I've had a few minor bugs along the way, but nothing I would call a show 
 stopper that has me cussing at the game.
  
  But what gets me the most from playing the game is the smoothness of the story line with the insane 
 amount of side missions and other little things that you can do along the way! I've always hated 
 how when you play a game, the side missions always seemed like more a pain than a fun benefit, 
 but not so in Mass Effect! The side missions seem to be just another excellent element to the game 
 that complements the main story line very well! Even more so, is that in most RPG's you feel like 
 you need to get the game guide to complete every single element to the game. Not so in Mass Effect, 
 the game never makes you feel like you missed anything, so long as you just take some time to explore 
 the cities and systems in the galaxy.
  
  Just from playing as far as I have I can tell the replay value on this game is VERY noteworthy. 
 There is just no way that you will want to play this game only once and be done with it, since 
 it will obviously play completely different as a renegade rather than a good guy. All of the interactions 
 will be different
  
  I'm only halfway through the game thus far (or so I think) but i would have to say beyond any doubt 
 that I am blown away by this game and it has rightfully earned a place of honor in my PC gaming 
 collection for all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limsc79
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 23, 2008 9:04 pm PT
Review:  PROS: The game is very entertaining, very interactive, very fun. The game makes it feel like every 
 single decision you make has an effect on the final outcome. At certain points you even have to 
 make critical decisions. It is very realistic.. The voice acting is very cool too and the relationships 
 and love interest does make the game more exciting. There are plenty of side missions and certain 
 cutscenes make them feel more important than they are. You feel compelled to complete them.
  
  CONS: Side missions can be a bit repetitive and getting around the mountainous terrain on the 
 Mako can be a pain in the side. Don't really understand the collection missions and achieving them 
 doesn't seem to bring any particular rewards other than some credits and experience. The slight 
 load times can be a bit annoying but if you have a beefy system you should be able to get around 
 that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chilean_demon
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  I just found what Ive been looking for since a long time in this game, a nice RPG in the future 
 (no more medieval stories, orcs, elfs, a dwarfs) . The first thing I like about this game is about 
 the graphics, they just look great!!!, you know suddenly I was feeling so excited just for the 
 graphics in the game. In the gameplay there is a easy learning curve to start to use it right. 
 The story is the thing I like the most, because now you just are not alone by yourself and you 
 have a entire crew with you.. and the species in the games are great (like Ive said before I was 
 so tired of elf, dwarfs and orcs) and you have a lot of options. Well I just saw some people who 
 didnt like the game, but they like Oblivion.. I can understand that because its a different game 
 and for me Oblivion was really boring (after 2 hours of gameplay I just throw away) . All I can 
 said is if you are looking for something new in RPG you have to try this, but if you are from the 
 classic player and the old medieval rpg school just stay with Oblivion and Neverwinter Nights.
 
  If you played you are going to be surprised for the work of the game creators, they all just fit 
 in his placeand you have a lot of options to talk to anyone (and youre answer can change the 
 results of the game) . You will love too the weapons, the space scenarios and all of that. You know 
 I was losing my faith about found something new in this kind of game, and MASS EFFECT just show 
 me I was wrong. 
  Finally. If you love games like Final Fantasy (specially N 7) this is the kind of title you have 
 to play to feel the same emotion again.
  
  Thanks Bioware and EA for give us something different and not the same old medieval story.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dijital80
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 23, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  With games like Spore and Mass Effect being published by EA, I had thought that perhaps things 
 were going to change at the at the publisher who's idea of originality was making the same game 
 over and over again while incrementing the year or sequel number at the end of the title. That 
 perhaps the ages of asshatery had ended, and that EA would make its triumphant return to being 
 a publisher who didn't just play it safe, but innovated. This hope however was monumentally crushed 
 with the announcement of EA's decision to foist the latest and agedly most uncrackable version 
 of Securom yet on to both of these games. This decision simultaneously keeps me from buying either 
 of these games, as well as proves that the powers that be at EA are suffering from a terminal case 
 rectal-cranial-inversion. It was as if they had watched the vitriol that gamers every where had 
 spew forth onto 2K Games for using such protection with Bioshock and then decided that they wanted 
 a peace of that hatred. When the largest section of the Wikipedia article for a game is dedicated 
 to the topic of "Criticism and technical issues" perhaps that game has issues. So following in 
 the footsteps of 2K, now Mass Effect also has quite the Controversies section on Wikipedia, although 
 in all fairness a good portion it has to do with alleged non-idiot Cooper Lawrence statements of 
 Fox News that the game contained "full digital nudity and sex". Alas the only screwing going on 
 in Mass Effect is between EA and the paying consumers.
  
  Let it be perfectly clear that you cannot "buy" this game in the same sense in which you have bought 
 nearly every other game you own. When you open the box, what you see might look like a DVD with 
 a game on and you might assume that the physical possession of this DVD entitles you to play the 
 game, but you would be horribly, horribly mistaken. Instead what you have is an installer for the 
 Mass Effect online service. A service which EA can and will cancel at anytime. You might have heard 
 that it's not a big deal that you just have to register the game online once and then you can play 
 it forever and ever without even having the DVD in the drive. Well what you've heard is a magical 
 tale of rainbows and unicorns, of a perfect world in which everything always goes exactly according 
 the plan, as oppose the dirty truth of the matter. This is what actually happens with Mass Effect. 
 You buy the game and happily install it on your laptop. The game runs horribly, and you come to 
 the conclusion that Windows Vista is a terrible operating system and is to blame for your problems. 
 Since you had been meaning to do it for awhile now anyways, you "down-grade" your laptop to Windows 
 XP and try installing the game again. It still high seas levels of choppy, you decide that clearly 
 the game needs to be played on your desktop instead. Well it runs a lot better now, but you couldn't 
 turn all the graphics setting up all the way, and you've been looking for the game that justifies 
 the purchase of a new graphics card anyways. So one new graphics card later you load up Mass Effect, 
 you are greeted with the following message:
  
  "The game can not start. For security reasons, only a limited number of machines can ever be licensed 
 by a single purchase. This limit has been reached. Please purchase another registration code, reinstall, 
 and then try again."
  
  Since you installed the three times already EA clearly thinks you just need to buy another copy 
 of the game. That's it your precious Mass Effect DVD is now completely worthless. Physical possession 
 of it entitles you to absolutely nothing; still think you bought the game? It doesn't matter if 
 this is the greatest game of all time, you cannot buy it, and I'm sure as hell not forking over 
 my hard earned cash for a "licensee" that allows me to install the game or change my hardware 3 
 times before the game just quits working.
  
  Gamespot needs a new "cons" icon for DRM, and a mandatory minimum 4 point deduction for any game 
 that that behaves like this. Ignoring DRM is like ignoring bugs in a game; it doesn't accurately 
 depict the experience of owning the game. So EA isn't getting my money, and I hope they don't get 
 yours either.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastpunk
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 27, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Bioware have come a long way since the times of Baldur's Gate. They've matured a bit, improved 
 on a few aspects but also lost a few bits along the way. One thing is for sure though, their quest 
 to offer a cinematic gaming experiences has reached a peak with Mass Effect.
  
  After being announced as an Xbox 360 exclusive, Mass Effect (ME from now on) made it's way on to 
 the PC after about 8-9 months. Those months were spent well it seems, since the PC version has 
 an improved tactical interface for combat and generally better performance optimizations. But is 
 ME a good enough game to compete on the PC role-playing game market? Let's find out.
  
  I'll start with a short presentation of the setting. ME introduces a world where faster-than-light 
 travel and terra-forming are a common event. It's the future and humanity is trying to make its 
 way to the top of the galactic political scene, a scene dominated by three alien races: the turians, 
 the asari and the salarians. So where does the player come in? You play the role of Commander Shepard, 
 the tip of the spear of humanity. The game's intro catches you in the middle of an 'audition' for 
 the rank of Specter Agent (Specters are an organization of secret agents that operate outside the 
 normal chain of command - the player has the opportunity to become the first human accepted into 
 this organization) . But what should have been a routine mission takes a turn into the unexpected... 
 and I'll let you see for yourself what happens after that.
  
  The storyline isn't much, it only picks up the pace towards the end and also has a few loose ends 
 (which, I imagine, will be tied up in the sequels) . In terms of writing, ME is probably Bioware's 
 best effort so far, although there's still plenty of room for improvement. A nice little feature 
 is The Galactic Codex, a log that collects information on various races, events, places and technologies 
 present in ME's world. If you like games with good lore then ME has it.
  
  Unfortunately, dialogs aren't as good. They made me cringe a few times, thanks to some cheesy, 
 melodramatic or extreme dialog lines. Not to mention the fact that the vast majority of dialog 
 options lead to the same response. The much advertised dialog wheel used by ME is 90% PR, 10% innovation. 
 Yes, it helps dialog flow but it doesn't give you much of an idea of what your character is about 
 to say. Maybe next time they'll improve it somehow. Bioware also has an affinity for writing whiny 
 characters that constantly need reassuring and friendly pats on the back and ME makes no exception. 
 But the good news is that here they're are a bit toned down. Overall, the writing needs work though.
 
  
  Next up is role-playing and quite frankly, ME is poor at it. The main story changes little to mirror 
 the few choices you are allowed to make, not to mention the fact that many objectives can't be 
 achieved through anything else but combat. Take Vampire: Bloodlines for example. In that game most 
 of the quests gave you the freedom to choose the means through which you could achieve your goals: 
 combat, sneaking around, hacking or talking, they were all viable options. ME doesn't even have 
 that many gameplay elements. You either walk around and talk to people, ride the Mako (more on 
 that later) or fight. So while I do understand that the emphasis is on action, I think ME should 
 offer more than just half implemented role-playing features.
  
  As mentioned, main storyline flows in a linear fashion, but there's also the opportunity to do 
 side-quests and explore various star systems and planets. But this is probably the weakest feature 
 of the game. Why? Because content-wise, all star systems and planets are strikingly similar. You 
 get dropped off on the surface of some alien world in your Mako (a 6-wheeled vehicle that drives 
 like a boat on restless waters) and you run around the surface, find a few mineral deposits or 
 clear out a few small camps or bases. If that wasn't enough, base interiors usually have the exact 
 same layout on every planet you explore. That's it. That's all there is to it. I warmly recommend 
 you stick to the main storyline, the exploration feature really waters down the experience.
  
  One thing about ME that is worthy of praise is the combat system, which is similar to Gears 
 of War's third-person duck-and-shoot combat, but with a few tactical features in there too. Ironically, 
 it's in combat situations that ME shines more, not in role-playing. It's actually fun and the new 
 PC interface makes controlling your party easy. There's a decent variety of weapons that can also 
 be upgraded, and to mix things up there's also the option to use Biotic powers (somewhat similar 
 to KotOR' Force powers) - but only if you chose a character class that can use them. It's also 
 worth noting that ME's combat is pretty challenging at times, which is certainly a good thing.
 
  
  I should have started with it, but I'll mention character creation in this paragraph. Truth is, 
 there's not much to say. ME uses a class-based system that gives the character specialization with 
 various weapon types and/or biotic powers plus some extra skills like electronics, decryption (which 
 is presented in the form of a timed mini-game that ultimately has little impact on your play style) , 
 charm and/or intimidate. It's also nice that you can choose a background. But sadly, this choice 
 has little impact. You'll get some different dialog lines from other characters but other than 
 that, there are no consequences. You can customize your character's face though!
  
  Visually, ME is a decent looking game. Some environments will catch you eye but sadly, there are 
 some bland looking environments too. The game is well optimized though: frame rates are steady 
 while loading times are short, although close in between, which can get annoying after a while. 
 Sound wise, things are even better. The voice actors are excellent for the most part, although 
 the male Shepard is a bit stiff. The female is much better though (you can always count of Jennifer 
 Hale to deliver a solid performance) . Sound effects are also solid while the music is good, if 
 a bit generic. Overall though, ME has a top notch audio-visual presentation that will just explode 
 towards the end.
  
  That about covers the most important aspects of the game. Looking back, I can say that ME was a 
 decent experience, I don't regret playing it. But hopefully, some of the problems mentioned above 
 will be solved in future installments. Ultimately, ME's biggest victory is the establishment of 
 an interesting new setting that has the potential to evolve into something great. So bring on ME 
 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 23, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  Well for a change I don't have a great deal to say about this game other than it's pretty damned 
 good. It is an off line FPS role playing game set in space.
  
  It's difficult to explain the story without giving away spoilers but the storyline is fantastic 
 and keeps you wanting to come back for more as the plot unfolds.
  
  To sum up this is probably the closest you're gonna get to a decent Star Trek style game and if 
 you love Star Trek you will love this.
  
  Graphics aren't groundbreaking, but visuals are nice to look at and everything runs pretty smoothly. 
 The only flaw is that the character models / faces / lip synching can be a little lacking.
  
  Game play is great. It has a new way of communicating with NPC's to get the storyline, little 
 mini-games, FPS action, MMO style inventories, huds and quickslots. The game is well thought out 
 all round. Hoever it is a very linear run through with lots of walls.
  
  Also this is probably the first game to give you a choice between the awful check point game save 
 system or manual saves.
  
  A lot of work has been put into this game, movement is nice and it is not a straight console port.
 
  
  Well done Bioware !
  
  Graphics 9
  Sound 9
  Gameplay 9
  Overall 9
  
  
  
  
  
  Gameplay 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macmert
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 12:18 am PT
Review:  I have to admid I was kinda sceptic when I first installed this game since I am not a fan of shooters... 
 But this game is not just your average shooter, it has lot lot more to it, exploration, immerse 
 storyline and much more...
  
  I played it over 10 hours now and I have to say the controls are quite comfortable, since I dont 
 play it with a gamepad. The story is great, you are john Sheperd (I hope I spelled it correct) 
 a veteran who survived a great catastrophe in a colony called Akuze and he is serving in a high 
 end tech ship called normandy, and the story starts after that... 
  
  The skill system and handling of the companions are quite well and reminds me of Knights of the 
 Old Republic, which was a great game and again it was from Bioware, they have a massive reputation 
 for great Rpg games, they made a great hybrid of 3rd person shooter and an Rpg... The Rpg elements 
 are put in to the game great, so you dont feel like just taking cover and shoot...
  
  Another good thing is you have a lot to do... The questline is great and promises a lot of things 
 along with twists and turns... The things you do really shapes the universe and colonies... For 
 example you bust a syndicate and kill the leader, when you return to the citadel (HQ kinda thing) 
 the news broadcast tells about it, I once had two interviews in the citadel, and both got broadcast 
 on news, then the council warned me about certain things I said on the interview and such... 
 
  
  Apart from the questline you can travel between planets, systems (Man there are a lot of places 
 to go) land on certain planets only to find some kind of anomalies to look for, or go look for 
 a spesific target to bring down, or just land to roam around... The majorty of the planets are 
 barren rock, some peaceful, some offer great adventure and danger... I have to tell you I was so 
 into doing other stuff I barely moved on the main quest cause it seems endless :D 
  
  If you are a fan of RPG you have to try this game out, this game promises a lot and I hope the 
 sequel comes for this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Olduron
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is one of the best games I've ever played. I've completed it once (won't be the only 
 time) , and the experience was very enjoyable and refreshing. The great setting, thrilling story, 
 beautiful visuals, solid voice acting and amazingly done conversations all contribute to a uniquely 
 cinematic experience. Playing ME is like watching some great sci-fi tv series, where you decide 
 the protagonist's actions. Like all games, it regrettably has its flaws, but the positive side 
 easily outweighs them. 
  
  I won't summary the story here, you can read it in the main review. I'll just say that the game's 
 world is detailed and very well done. The alien races are interesting, and there's loads of non-plot 
 critical information available about all aspects of the universe. This information (of which a 
 good part has voiceover) can be skipped, but I'd advise to read/listen it all to better immerse 
 yourself in Mass Effect's world. The main story kept me fascinated all the way from the beginning 
 to the great ending (and even the credits, thanks to the perfectly chosen music piece) . A good 
 thing is that this is the first part of a trilogy, so there will be more.
  
  Even though Mass Effect is quite action-heavy, the combat had a secondary role for me. The action 
 is fast, viewed from over the protagonist's shoulder. You can issue simple commands to your two 
 buddies, but they perform reasonably well on their own too. In harder fights recklessness leads 
 to death, and utilising cover is often required. It's nothing spectacular, but gets the job done. 
 There is a nice list of different armor, rifles, pistols, shotguns and mod packages; the weapons' 
 stats could've been a little more detailed, though. Another minus is that all the weapons of the 
 same class (eg. assault rifles) have the same firing sounds - only using different ammunition changes 
 them. I would've also liked the addition of non-combat oriented items in the inventory. I'd advise 
 on playing on a hard difficulty setting, since for an experienced fps player the fights can be 
 a bit too easy. All in all combat is pretty enjoyable, though. But it's the brilliant dialogue 
 and story that mattered the mroe to me. 
  
  The biggest disappointment in Mass Effect are the side quests, that are of incredibly low quality 
 compared to the awesome main plot. Most of them feel almost identical: you land on a planet on 
 your ground vehicle, find a way to the quest destination over the frustrating terrain, fight some 
 easy enemies outside, fight some more enemies inside a building, and leave. The majority of the 
 side quests use maybe two different kinds of floorplans for buildings, which gets quite boring 
 after completing a few. There are several more interesting side quests as well, and at least on 
 the first playthrough you should do all quests to experience the better ones. You also should often 
 talk to your companions between missions, since these conversations are very enjoyable. 
  
  There are many very unique moments in the game, of likes which I never have seen before in a game. 
 Giving a speech to your crew, talking about religion with a companion, giving an interview to a 
 reporter (and later praised/scolded for it) , making great sacrifices... Everything contributes 
 to a feeling of freedom and immersion. 
  
  I completed maybe 2/3 of the side quests and explored most of the star systems, and it took 24 
 hours. Easily worth the money. My score for Mass Effect will be 9.5; that 0,5 is reduced by the 
 unimaginative sidequests and the simplistic equipment system. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eviakhan
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 22, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a really good action space RPG. The action RPG parts of it remind me of Knights 
 of the Old Republic and then it has some squad shooter feel like Republic Commando.
  
  The Good:
  RPG elements like npc conversations, leveling up powers, gear and weapons are all 
 done very well. The interface is intuitive and slick. Voice acting and cut scenes are top notch. 
 Overall fun to play.
  
  The Bad:
  I wish the good/evil (paragon/renegade) system had more impact. The NPC vendor system could be 
 better. I also wish the squad NPC conversations were more robust and dynamic.
  
  This is one of the best games I have played in a long time. The quality and overall feel of the 
 game is top notch. The cut scenes are well done and give a nice cinematic effect. The squad based 
 play easy to control and fun, there is also a nice arsenal of characters to choose from your bullpen 
 to alter your play style to your liking. You can use brute force soldier style or wizard like bionic 
 commando style or various other combinations in between. All this variation gives a lasting replayability 
 to the game. I am working on my second run through now.
  
  There is a lot to do in this game, you can blow right through like I did the first time just doing 
 the core mission but as I am finding out the second time through there are a ton of side quests 
 to venture on. Some of these get repetitive however and I wish some of the buildings you battle 
 in were a bit more varied, however its a small gripe because the combat is so much fun.
  
  The planet map system which allows you to choose which solar system and planet to visit is awesome. 
 This is completely open ended so you can go whereever you want whenever you want giving it kind 
 of a Freelancer feel. Walking and driving on the varied planet surfaces is neat and the visuals 
 are stunning on some of these far away planets. I loved standing on the moon in the Sol system 
 looking up at planet earth.
  
  There were some parts of the game I did find lacking which is why I scored it 9.0 instead of 9.5. 
 First of all, I wish the good/evil system had more impact. I didn't feel that it made a difference 
 at all or the NPCs were even aware that I was a good guy my first run through or an evil on my 
 second run through. You can pick your backstory at the character creation phase and the NPC seem 
 to make more reference to that than any of my good/evil actions in the game.
  
  The second thing I had a problem with was the vendor system. In the beginning everything is way 
 overpriced and you can't afford anything then later on when you do have the money to buy their 
 wares you don't need to because you find better stuff on the missions. You don't even need to sell 
 the vendors anything because its just easier to convert things you don't need to omni-gel, which 
 is kind of like tokens used for cracking safes in the game.
  
  The last thing that I wish was that the squad NPC dialogue was more robust and dynamic. Don't get 
 me wrong it is very well done, It just left me wanting more sometimes. I also wanted to get romantically 
 involved with Tali, she is hot! , but you are limited to only two available options. Of the two 
 members you can engage in love, I wish there were a few more "stages" of the conversation. Anyway, 
 this is hardly anything to mark the game badly on, was just something I wanted more of.
  
  In closing, Mass Effect is an awesome game that is almost a masterpiece. It has a few minor setbacks 
 that really don't detract from the many things that are done so well. There is so much to do in 
 this game and you will have a blast doing it. It is an overall fun Space RPG to play worthy of 
 your time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Startrekjunkie
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 22, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  When I saw the commercials for this game and read the initial previews I thought that this would 
 be the all time best RPG that has ever been created. For the most part it was. It had a rich story 
 with characters that had their own personal baggage and history that tied in with their actions 
 in the game. The combat system was excellent, mixing the elements of a shooter with the standard 
 RPG combat/skills/magic elements. 
  
  My first complaint about this game is that the characters were all completely stupid. I mean this 
 in the sense that they had to have everything explained to them, even things that it seems like 
 everyone else in the story knows about. I realize that this is mostly due to the need to introduce 
 the audience to the history of the universe of Mass Effect, but that could have been done via the 
 codex system rather than through countless drawn out "investigation" dialogue choices. It is very 
 easy to get bored with this game just by going through all these dialogue choices to get a complete 
 view of the universe you're playing in. Also, I couldn't believe how stupid the Citadel Council 
 was concerning the Reapers. If you heard that someone was trying to bring back a race that may 
 or may not have completely wiped out an entire galactic civilization, don't you think that you 
 may want to at least try to take it seriously. Hell, I think that Sovereign could have shown up 
 on the Citadel's doorstep and start saying "I am a Reaper and I've come here to wipe out all spacefaring 
 galactic life." and the Council still would have doubted the whole story.
  
  My second complaint is the side quests and how they have no bearing on the actual game apart from 
 just being opportunities to level up. This is particularly true with the mineral survey, Prothean 
 discs, Salarian tags, Turian insignia searches. These side quests would make more sense if it tied 
 in somehow with the main game or gave you some advantage. It would have been nice to have the mineral 
 surveys lead to you getting a constant source of revenue or the the Prothean discs allowing you 
 to get access to advanced Prothean weaponry (Captain Anderson would have just loved that) . Even 
 the character based side quests didn't really accomplish anything related to the story. Doing the 
 Wrex side quest got you Wrex's family armor which did... nothing. Doing the Garrus side quest got 
 you absolutely nothing, the same with Tali's side quest. The side quests seemed to have just been 
 tacked on as afterthought.
  
  Well this is my review, take it for what it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Using the word epic wouldn't be doing Mass Effect justice. This is what gaming is all about, and 
 what gaming should be. This is what every game should strive for, but very few will ever give as 
 much as Mass Effect did for me. 
  
  The amount of effort that must have gone into making this game is mind boggling. With rare exception, 
 they did everything right. For the first time in a game I have not been able to pick out anything 
 that I would have done different. 
  
  Graphics  The graphics were so well done that its hard to comment on them. At this stage of gaming, 
 what more could they have done? With the minor exception of mouth sync, which is impossible at 
 this stage of gaming, the characters were just about perfect. Every single NPC in this game was 
 different. Each NPC had a different voice, and each one said something different. For every game 
 I criticize for repeating lame voiceovers again and again, this game makes up it all. The different 
 planets, although basic, were un-paralleled in the way they made each area seem so unique.
  
  Gameplay  Simplistic is the best way to describe the controls, yet everything was accomplished 
 with just a few buttons. Having to reload weapons in games that have infinite ammo is no fun, and 
 Mass Effect didn't worry about those types of details, but instead paid attention to the fluidity 
 of use. The battles were just hard enough, but not so tedious to have to repeat over and over just 
 to end the battle. The choice of teammates was a nice option, although I spent the majority of 
 the game with the same crew. Money was possibly a little to easy to come by, but it didn't play 
 a huge part in the game, or get me anything that I couldn't get from a drop.
  
  Storyline  This is what took this game from a 9 to a 10. By far and away one of the most detailed 
 games I have ever played. It reminded me of some of the first Final Fantasy games in that the cut 
 scenes were as good as the gameplay. And it's the first time they pulled off a love affair of any 
 substance in a game. The ability to choose right or wrong actually mattered, and having to choose 
 the lives of one party member over another took some long thought.
  
  Overall  This is a must play game for one big reasonPeople will refer back to Mass Effect as 
 the standard for this genre, and if you don't play it, you will have no way to compare or contrast 
 any game of this type in the future. Not just worth the moneyworth twice the money, and everyone 
 on the development and writing teams deserve whatever accolades they receive.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MWHansen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 8:09 pm PT
Review:  I'm gonna divide this review into small bits and in the end give a short summary!
  
  Story:
  This game is based on a story. You start as a commander in an epic universe with loads 
 of amazing races and background stories to basically everything. You get to choose from a variety 
 of reactions how the story spans out and you get an amazing experience. You loose your breath several 
 times and get sucked into it - as if it was an amazing movie. As said earlier if you feel like 
 it, you can read a lot of background to everything in a thing called "Codex" - everything written 
 in that "Codex" is even voice acted and even amazing voice acting there!
  - 10/10
  
  Graphics:
  This game has very impressive graphics. Environments are amazingly detailed with textures 
 making everything looking almost real. The game consists of very important conversations and a 
 lot of them - therefore face expressions and graphics are also very realistic to look at.
  - 9/10
  
  Sound:
  Awesome music constantly matching the situation at hand. Speedy music pumping 
 your adrenaline in combat or cozy beautiful music when traveling around while exploring planets 
 and cities. The voice acting is unspeakably amazing - no flaws and sucks you right in.
  - 9/10
  
  Duration:
  The game has a long campaign (around 20-30 hours) . This is just if you 
 choose not to explore random planets or do side quests (loads of side quests in the game) . Certain 
 side quests give great rewards boosting your character a lot. Maximum level is 60 but the only 
 way to get to 60 is by playing the campaign to end more then once. This is one of the less successful 
 aspects of them game - no real replay value.
  - 8/10
  
  Multiplayer:
  Most unfortunately there is no multiplayer in this game. Could have been great somehow though to 
 keep the replay value high and constant.
  - 0/10
  
  Summary:
  This is an utmost awesome game made by Bioware. Unbelievable story and breathtaking gameplay followed 
 by great graphics and sound. This game does not last for more then a maximum of 50 hours in average. 
 No multiplayer which is most unfortunate.
  - 8,5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skuzzy360
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is phonomanal. Fantastic story and great gameplay. This feels like a movie and a game, 
 it works as both and thats why its right up my alley. Fantastic choice of cast, great directing 
 in the cut scenes and the graphics work very well on a mid-low rig.
  
  Its reminds me of Gears of war in aspects. The general feel of the game, some atmospheres in levels 
 and the over the shoulde view which works in this game very well. 
  
  At the same time, it reminds me of oblivion. RPG and the choices in conversations. 
  
  And 
 for the final game it reminds me of.......
  
  
  wait for it........ 
  
  
  
  Fable, mainly because of the good and bad choices you can make which effects your personality.
 
  
  
  This Could of been a perfect 10 with ease. There are a few main factors that make it a 9 not a 
 10 for me....
  
  1. The A. I is not good enough, your squad gets in the way when your shooting!
  2. At times it 
 can get boring, the conversations are basic, it would be nice for the characters to move about 
 more and to have more facial reactions.
  3. Longer, Longer, Longer! The main story line is just to Short!
  4. Some animations are a bit 
 sketchy in conversations, like jumping faces when starting a new sentence
  5. More side quests needed
  6. More vehicles, weapons, armour, etc
  7. Some of the sound effects 
 are a bit tacky.
  
  
  In spite of that, a definite must have, cant wait for Mass Effect 2, which will hopefully address 
 some, if not all, of these problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: christhor
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2008 3:17 am PT
Review:  When I first installed this game (on XP) I could only play for about 10 minutes before it crashed 
 or locked but then remembering the last time I updated my graphics drivers was around 9 months 
 ago I quickly went to the nvidia web site and installed a new diver. After the new driver was installed 
 the game ran smoothly and fault free.
  
  When I first started playing the game it felt a bit daunting with all the different pages of in-game 
 settings you wade though, since I am more used to action or first person games but after about 
 a hour of choosing character achievements and installing weapon upgrades the game started to flow. 
 
  
  The interactive interface is fast and simple to use. As you approach a item or person blue bracket 
 will appear with the name or description of the person or item. After you approach you simply press 
 E to either operate the item or talk to the person. When talking a circler radical will appear 
 with pre-determined answers, these answers usually appear before the character has finished talking, 
 this is a nice touch as it gives the impression of a continuous conversation instead of script 
 with long pauses.
  
  One of the nice parts of this action adventure is you control the character in the same way as 
 within a action/shooter using the A-W-S-D keys. I personally prefer this more interactive way of 
 moving around instead of the click and move interface.
  
  The game gives the impression of being a action shooter with a storyline to allow you to chose 
 what missions you are going to undertake.
  
  The quick saves function (hitting a F key) is very well designed. Most games either allow you to 
 hit the F key every minute that takes any danger away as you simply replay the last 30 seconds 
 when you die or use pre-determined save points that are really annoying, you end up playing the 
 same 10 minuets over and over and over and over until you complete the first section preparing 
 yourself to repeat the next part over and over. This game allows you to hit a F key but only at 
 certain points.
  
  There are also a user selectable set of fast keys at the top of the screen that use a simple drag 
 'n' drop function for power-ups. This allows a very easy system for fast access to your add-ons 
 during fights. 
  
  There are other companions who join you as you undertake the various missions. There equipment 
 and upgrades are controlled via accessing the same settings pages as your character.
  
  I have only played the game for about 6 hours but feel this game will give many hours of entertainment.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peter_Eater
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Many have slandered this game on the count that is a KotOR clone. While it will surely be obvious 
 to anyone playing it, that it is based on the almost identical gameplay system as KotOR, it is 
 by no means a rip-off. The plot many have dubbed vague and uninnovative compared to the afore mentioned 
 game, is actually pretty well thought out, and full of "I didn't see that coming" revelations. 
 I believe that the way the story naturally flows, some have overseen the fact that just while back 
 in the storyline things seemed completely different. That is the one of the best points of this 
 game. You slowly are being dragged into the plot, instead like, some games, that either throw you 
 a total curve ball, or just take painfully obvious courses. 
  
  The graphics are very nice, and I especially liked the noise effect, that gives it somewhat movie-like 
 experience. While the game requires a pretty beefed-up rig, my 7900GTO graphics card managed to 
 cope with it just fine. The fps went from 12 to 30 (V-sync enabled) , but even the low fps were 
 bearable, and not too frustrating or strenuous.
  
  The music score is also very good. Not the best out there, but I liked it pretty much. It is nicely 
 blended into the scenery, and it really adds to the immersion.
  
  Now for the cons.
  The most irritating feature in the game is the lack of ability to cut the conversation, or cutscenes. 
 It was not really an issue at first, but later in the game, it can really get your goat.
  The second annoyance is the fact that previously explored conversation topics, are not grayed-out, 
 or something alike. Which ultimately leads you to the irritating part where, just because you can't 
 remember all the already covered topics, you will be forced to listen again to the same ranting. 
 Coupled with the inability to cut it, it REALLY can tick you off.
  
  That is my take on this great game. I do recommend it to everyone. It is fun, immersive, not too 
 hard, and even a bit addictive.
  
  Hope you find this review informative and helpful.
  
  Peter_Eater 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alijib
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 7:12 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is another feather in the cap of bioware. The developers have done a remarkable job 
 by designing the game, where dialogs are brilliantly portrayed by digital actors. Emotional drams 
 is at very high, with a very good back story to save the entire galaxy.
  Some of the characters in the game will become your immediate favorites within the first hour of 
 the play, and as soon as you progress, your bonding with the characters will continue to strengthen. 
 As player, you will be pitted against the different situations along with a love story, in which 
 you will be choosing sides.
  Biotics, or lets say the SCI-FI Magic is a real helper in the game, as it not only helps you out 
 in situations, it effects look very good too. Also, to end the game, you will definitely need some 
 Biotics in your arsenal.
  The game is not without flaws, especially the mako handling in hilly terrain, but with a game as 
 fine as Mass Effect, these minor problems are exceptions.
  Do try this space opera.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: starforcekiller
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2008 7:03 am PT
Review:  The very time I started playing RPG games ,I was always trying to imagine one day a western RPG 
 maker will come and they will save the Genre .... I waited until the first KOTOR came out ... I was 
 happy !!! Now mighty Mass Effect came out ... Now what? Exxxxxellent .
  A great game that no eastern country can make it.... Buy it.... Dont crack the game! Save the industry!!!
 
  The Game has decent design but graphics are not very impressive, because we have seen so many better 
 games based on Unreal Engine 3. Dont forget : run this game only on M$ Vista Service pack 1, because 
 the game will run much better than the other versions of windows ... Game play is satisfactory... Story 
 is good ... Game is short and easy !!!... Making choices are amazing during the game .. you may become 
 very angry or happy to see that you can save or kill your squad members ... But try to glorify the 
 Humanism and mankind over other galactic species at the end of the game... Sub missions are funny 
 and gives you XP .... On the whole it is not a masterpiece but AMAZING... cant wait until the second 
 to come out .. Good bye for now!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rashaed
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2008 9:45 pm PT
Review:  A good Sci-Fi RPG is a rare gem. So I was excited to learn that Mass Effect was coming over to 
 the PC. I just finished running through the story and I am going to start a second run soon. Mass 
 Effect (ME) is like Halo, Freelancer, TES: Oblivion, Deus Ex, Chrome and Doom 3 artfully put together. 
 A great 360 game is now outstanding on the PC.
  
  Sound 9/10
  Nicely done work here. ME has a great soundtrack. The music fits in every situation. From combat 
 to looking at your map of the galaxy, the music is simply beautiful. Sound effects also help draw 
 you into wherever you are in the game. The sounds for your weapons are weak at first but they get 
 better as you get stronger guns. Voice acting is very good; for just about everyone else expect 
 Cmdr. Shepard. I loved talking to the aliens on the Citadel or those fighting with Shepard. As 
 for Shepard himself, he sounds flat. Even when he gets emotional, it seems fake but don't let that 
 mess up the flow of a conversation.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  ME is a pleasure to look at. The technical aspect is stunning but the artistic design is what really 
 give this game the perfect graphic score. From the Citadel to exploring uncharted planets (even 
 Earth's moon nice) to your ship, the Normandy; are all a work of art. Even places that have been 
 wrecked by war are large, detailed outstanding. NPCs have natural movements (even the aliens) and 
 their faces almost always match what they are saying. Things seen during combat, shields biotics 
 and explosions are an A+. Only a few negatives: you better have a beast of a PC to run ME. Finally 
 are brief hiccups in loading for some of the lager areas (just like in Oblivion) .
  
  Story 8/10
  Bioware has stepped up to the same challenge Bungie did with Halo. They took a cliche 
 sci-fi plot and made an brilliant, engaging story. Just like with Halo: CE, ME feels like a great 
 start to a series of games.
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  Once you create your Cmdr. Shepard, well, get ready to lose sleep on this one. The game easily 
 eats up 20 to 25 hours. You can explore, talk to people and get general info on what is going on 
 in the galaxy. Take as many side jobs as can find and do them based how you want to get the job 
 done (paragon or renegade) . Combat on ME can be confusing at first, especially if you have biotics 
 but once you get hang of it (and level up some) , the firefights can be epic. The enemy AI in ME 
 can go from good to mediocre. Organic enemies are the better foe since they take cover, use their 
 biotics and weapon mods. Synthetics and animals are not so smart. They tend either stand out in 
 the open or charge right at you. Combat in your vehicle is also fun but once you get use to its 
 sensitive controls, it is hard to lose. You level up by both completing tasks and killing enemies 
 so once again do all the side jobs you can to make the main story easier on yourself. The only 
 real flaw with ME is that once you complete the main story you cannot go on in a free exploration 
 mode like in Oblivion to finish up the side jobs.
  
  Overall 9/10
  This is the type of game I have been waiting for since Deus Ex. With all the different classes 
 and the renegade/paragon factor, you will need to go through the main story 3 times. ME is definitely 
 worth buying. So if you have the PC to handle Mass Effect, get it and enjoy!
  
  AMD X2 6400+
  ASUS M2N-SLI Deluxe
  3.5 GB Corsair RAM
  Nvidia 8800GTX
  Windows XP Pro 32bit 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frisky_Dingo86
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Hi all and i hope you find this review helpful. The first time i saw Mass Effect i must say i was 
 like "Meh its Knight of the old republic all over again with new engine". I was wrong. Its so much 
 more than KOTOR. It has the same basic root Sf Rpg but it expands so much more than KOTOR. The communication 
 with NPC and your teammates is so fluid that its amasing ( during the conversaton your answer poll 
 will apear before the end of conversation so it could proced without stoping ) . The battle system 
 is also quite advanced for RPG's where you can either play step by step leading your whole team 
 giving orders etc etc or you can do things yourself and leaving teammates behind. Your choises will 
 affect the way ppl react to you more than in KOTOR. The subtile humor is also present with some 
 sarkasam too. The engine is Unreal 3. What can be said. It provides with great graphic with not as 
 much resourse consumption like other games this type of graphics. The Bioware really did they thing 
 bringing U3 engine to non FPS and implementig also a big wide areas and even small details wich 
 are not so common in RPG's with this kind of graphics. So i would recommend it for all who like 
 a good RPG or any1 that wana try something that isnt justanother clone game". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2uneek4u
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  Mass effect is a must buy. I just bought the game today and i've just decided to have break. ive 
 been playing since 3pm and it is now 1am. i haven't gone through the main story yet as i am just 
 taking my time in exploring the galaxy, and interacting with everything i can etc.. But So far 
 the main story is amazing!!
  Although i wish they had better side quest to offer. Like for example Side quest on your crew members 
 so you get to know them abit better. A mini story about them would of been great.
  
  The graphic looks really nice and would look even nicer if i could run everything on max setting. 
 (i wish i could but 7600gt is just to weak of a graphic card for the game) . But i can still run 
 on med settings with fps of 20-30 which is still not good for others opinion. In saying this, you 
 don't really need a good graphic card just to play the game imo, unless graphics are really important 
 to you.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dandaman247
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  This rpg shooter. makes it fun for both fans of shooters and rpg to join together as one to fight 
 the evil. Through out the game you will learn to use the right rpg to maximize the fun with the 
 shooter.
  the one thing i loved about this game that kept me thought the whole time was the fact that you 
 don't need to follow the storyline like other shooters. you can do side missions, talk to people 
 or even freaking just go around the galaxy and have fun. and discover more and more. 
  You can have custom dialogs to maximize character customization.
  TRUELLY THE BEST GAME I'VE 
 PLAYED.
  the amazing graphics and stunning plants just gives you the feel of the game. many times i got 
 emotional thought out the game and this was the first time for me.
  
  defiantly a must play.
  looking forward to play mass effect 2.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drichard2830
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  I have finally come to the conclusion that RPG's are my official favorite genre of game. The stories, 
 the immersion, the humor and drama make it more of an interactive movie if done right. I was about 
 halfway through "The Witcher" when I hear of Mass Effect being released for the PC. At first, I 
 wasn't that interested. After all, BIoWare betrayed us, the "original" fans by releasing for a 
 console first! But our patience has paid off, and again, the makers of some of the best games to 
 come to the PC, bar none, have returned to their home platform in style.
  
  First of all, if you've ever played Knights of the Old Republic (KOTOR) , you'll know how to play 
 this game. The dialog and squad management are very similar. Even the way your squad mates interract 
 with each other and vary on their views of how you should do things is a great throwback to the 
 classic Star Wars game. Some may say it's too much like the game mechanics in KOTOR, but the way 
 your decisions affect your team and the world around you is what RPG's should all be about. Having 
 said that, I find the combat much more enjoyable than that in the older KOTOR games. Going to a 
 real-time third person view with "duck and cover" abilities makes for some tense firefight action 
 - but more on that later.
  
  You play as Commander Shepard, a spacefaring hero hopeful that the human race is pinning its hopes 
 on. Ancient technology has resurfaced and there are bad men (er, aliens) that want it. After an 
 unprovoked attack on a peaceful Human planet settlement, you are called into action to try and 
 get the multi-race alien council to give you the authority to space hop and try to curb the bad 
 guys enthusiasm for galactic domination. Soon, having command of a ship, you have the freedom to 
 move about the galaxy, with a ship full of different races, would-be heroes willing to help you.
 
  
  Depending on what you chose when you created your character, your tools of survival differ slightly, 
 but not to worry, there are many things in the game that help you overcome your enemies, explore 
 worlds and solve problems. There are three main classes that can be your avatar's specialty, or 
 there are three other classes that are a combination of two of the main ones. Of the former kind, 
 you have Soldier, Engineer, and Adept, the first being a combat specialist, the second a tinkerer/hacker, 
 and the third, a "Biotic" specialist (spellcaster, effectively) . The combination classes are Infiltrator 
 (engineer/soldier) , Vanguard (adept/soldier) , and Sentinel (engineer, adept) . With the combined 
 classes, you lose some abilities from each of the primary classes in exchange for the wider range 
 of capabilities. I chose to play my first time through as a Vanguard, so I could blow things up 
 and wield a bit of biotic power.
  
  As you pick up squad mates, you'll find they have different abilities as well. Pick your deployment 
 squad wisely (you may only have two additional characters in your squad out of the six or so you 
 have along with you) , because you don't want to be stuck with three engineers when you have to 
 fight a lot of bad guys. If you have too much combat specialty in your squad, you may not be able 
 to decrypt a computer or unlock a supply crate. The balance is fun, but since you can't switch 
 your squad mid-mission, you can get a bit frustrated when you stumble on some higher end tech that 
 you can't use (though it has never been a mission critical type item) .
  
  Any good RPG is only as good as it's loot, and Mass Effect has it in spades. Assault Rifles, Pistols, 
 Shotguns and Sniper Rifles make up the weapons selections, then there is light, medium and heavy 
 armor (available in different species types) , grenades and other techs. Each item has modification 
 slots to add in certain upgrades, whether they're anti-personnel for "fleshy" targets, toxic bullets 
 (my personal favorites) , or one of many other things you can use. You add a better heat sink and 
 your gun will fire more shots before overheating, etc. There's a great many things you can do to 
 your weapons and armor, and it's fun sometimes just to experiment. Don't forget to outfit your 
 squad mates as well, and they're also more effective when given mods to their equipment too. Of 
 course, the ever necessary Omni-gel can be made out of any excess equipment to give you more room 
 in your inventory, and you need it to unlock items when you fail to pick them, or to repair your 
 ground vehicle, the "Mako" when it gets battered by the missile turrents and other baddies.
  
  Exploration of the star systems is quite fun as well, but sometimes you may forget what planets 
 you've already scanned. I wish the game kept better track of where I'd been or logged what I had 
 found when scanning. I actually landed on the same planet twice after leaving the system and returning 
 later. Having said that, it is fun to stumble on chance encounters and loot when checking out a 
 small landing site. The missions are clear and direct you to where you need to be, so you won't 
 be landing on planets, randomly trying to find your quest location.
  
  Finally, back to the combat, you have control of yourself and two squad mates, and while controlling 
 them in the heat of combat can be confusing and sometimes downright frustrating, you always have 
 the option of pausing the game by holding down the spacebar. This brings up a small set of menu 
 options, one for each squad member, where you can tell them to hold position, cast a special ability 
 or boost their shields. At the same time, you can use this menu to activate your own abilities 
 if you don't like using the hotkeys. The only issue I have with this is that many of the abilities 
 are targeted, and if you pause the action to issue a command to a teammate, but your reticule isn't 
 pointing to the right bad guy, you may mistakenly set of a power at the floor or a crate and waste 
 the cooldown required to cast it a second time. It didn't bother me too much, I usually just unpaused, 
 re-aimed, and then re-paused the action to issue the command.
  
  Overall, I love everything about this game. The graphics are beautiful, though not necessarily 
 the best when it comes to animations and lip sync, but very good. The music is excellent and ambient 
 and never gets in my way or makes me wish it would stop. And I have yet to find a bad voice actor 
 in the game. The story is the stuff of a great sci-fi movie, and I find myself excited to play 
 through a second time, to change a decision I made earlier just to see how it changes the flow 
 of the game. Just remember to save often and enjoy the masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snoopyflyfish
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 16, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  It is your mission. As Commander Shepard of the SS Normandy, you will take your elite recon squad 
 across a galaxy in turmoil, in a desperate race to stop the return of an enemy without mercy. To 
 stop this enemy, you must act without remorse, without hesitation, and outside the limits of the 
 law. Your only imperative is to preserve the safety of civilized life in the galaxy - at any cost. 
 You must become the tip of the spear of humanity, for you alone know the full extent of what is 
 at stake if you should fail. You will assume responsibility for the lives of your squad as you 
 lead them into often uncharted, hostile alien environments. Each decision you make could mean the 
 difference between victory and disaster. Although combat will take place in real-time, you will 
 have the ability to pause combat and issue commands to your squad which they will then execute 
 with the precision of a highly trained elite force. Upgrading certain skills and abilities as you 
 level up your character will also allow you to increase your ballistic skill - this can ultimately 
 lead to easier aiming, more damaging use of weapons, and biotic effects with the power to turn 
 the tide of battle in your favor. Your mission will take you into the deepest reaches of known space 
 - and beyond. Aboard your ship, the Normandy, you will choose which planets to investigate, and 
 where to take your team. In addition to the major worlds of the main story arc, you will have the 
 freedom to visit a wide array of uncharted planets and other locations such as asteroids and abandoned 
 space freighters adrift in space. On many worlds, take your team planet side in the MAKO in order 
 to explore and find alien life, ancient artifacts and ruins, rogue trader colonies and a host of 
 other amazing discoveries. You out there who likes Genre: Sci-Fi Action Role-Playing then this 
 game will blow your mind but it takes a lot of PC Minimum System Requirements for Mass Effect on 
 the PC
  
  Operating System:
  Windows XP or Vista
  
  Processor:
  2.4+GHZ Intel or 2.0+GHZ AMD
  
  Memory:
  1 Gigabyte Ram (XP)
  2 Gigabyte Ram (Vista)
 
  
  Video Card:
  NVIDIA GeForce 6 series (6800GT or better)
  ATI 1300XT or better (X1550, X1600 Pro and HD2400 are below minimum system requirements)
  
 
  Hard Drive Space:
  12 Gigabytes
  
  Sound Card:
  DirectX 9.0c compatible sound card and drivers
  ----------
  
  Recommended System Requirements 
 for Mass Effect on the PC
  
  Operating System:
  Windows XP or Vista
  
  Processor:
  2.6+GHZ Intel or 2.4+GHZ AMD
  
  Memory:
  2 Gigabyte Ram
  
  Video Card:
  NVIDIA GeForce 
 7900 GTX or higher.
  ATI X1800 XL series or higher
  
  Hard Drive Space:
  12 Gigabytes
  
  Sound Card:
  DirectX 9.0c compatible sound card and drivers  5.1 sound card 
 recommended 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bstcrew
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 23, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  Mass effect is a good game. That being said it is not the groundbreaking masterpiece that some 
 say it is. 
  
  First i will talk about all the good stuff . The overall audio visual presentation is top notch. 
 Especially the audio package is great. The voice actors did a fantastic job considering the huge 
 amount of spoken word that is in the game. Comparing this to the somewhat broken voice acting in 
 oblivion is like comparing a hot dog with a haute-cuisine dish. 
  
  On the visual side of things the character models realy stand out as being excellent. The amount 
 of detail in them is awesome. 
  
  The best thing though must be the depth this game has. You can micromanage your squad in great 
 detail if you like. You can read up about practicly everything in the game in the massive 'codex'. 
 There are an enormous amount of side quests you can take and the dialogues can be pretty deep too.
 
  
  So based upon that you would think that Mass Effect deserves full marks. But there just are some 
 issues that prevent me from being totally into it. A minor issue are the side quests which can 
 get a bit boring if you want to do them all in your first play-trough. I just skipped a lot of 
 them to save for when i play it a second or maybe even a third time. 
  
  A fault is that the main story is pretty short for a RPG. It only take about 20 hours to finish 
 and in RPG standards, that's cutting the norm in half. 
  
  The story is a bit disappointing as well. I blame this on all the reviews claiming it to be the 
 best story in a game ever. I guess I was expecting something like Planescape Torment but instead 
 it boils down to you having to save the galaxy from an evil alien race. Not realy riveting stuff 
 but it managed to carry the game along at least.
  
  The biggest problem has to be the squad AI. It realy is an example of artificial stupidity. You 
 can give some orders to them but that system does not work very well. A tactical POV would have 
 been so nice to have because now you can only give your squad commands in the area that is in your 
 view. This is especialy annoying when you are forced to take cover ( which happens almost all the 
 time in fights) and your view of the battlefield is obstructed by the things you are taking cover 
 behind. Luckily your team will re-spawn when a battle is over, but it made me wonder why I needed 
 them in the first place.
  
  So yeah, Mass Effect does offer a lot good things to RPG fans. Just don't expect it to be as epic 
 as some would make you believe it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spectralmerc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Wow...
  
  I was a bit skeptic about this game. I always am with multi-console games. Being a PC-only gamer, 
 I am justified by PC versions always turning out to be some farted-out version of it's console 
 counterpart.
  
  However, there is always an exception that breaks the rule, and it is called Mass Effect.
  
 
  Bioware simply did it. They delivered quite frankly, what I think it is one of the best games 
 ever, right along with Half Life 2 and Portal.
  
  But let's do this in order.
  
  This game is an RPG. A sci-fi RPG. Not only that is enough like to turn and look, given the fact 
 that most RPGs are built around D&D lore. 
  
  The game starts with character customization. The choices are close to those of Oblivion, though 
 the character face doesn't have the consistence of Playdoh. You not only get to customize the character's 
 gender and first name, but also his/her origins and attitude towards missions. All this will influence 
 the behavior of most NPCs later on.
  
  The plot goes around the Mass Relays, launching platforms of sorts, left behind by a now extinct 
 civilization. Thanks to them, we are now able to travel to distant points in the galaxy. Humanity 
 has discovered a lot of alien races, and has conformed an alliance with them. Your role is that 
 of a Commander of the alliance, sent in to check some weird transmission out of a human colony 
 on a planet caled Eden Prime. No matter how clichd this sounds, from then on a plot full to the 
 brim with action adventure and drama ensues.
  
  I can't say no more without revealing major plot elements, but I will say this. The game is visceral. 
 All characters are incredibly fleshed out, with their own motivations to be what they are and behave 
 like they do. The lore created by Bioware is fantastic, placing together a very believable world 
 where humanity is no longer the hero, and most do what it can to earn its place among the other 
 life beings sharing the universe with it.
  
  Is also interesting how the game toys with the duality of synthetic and organic life, giving to 
 everything a nice backdrop for the decisions you will make throughout the story. Because, oh, the 
 decisions abound.
  
  Not only are those decisions morally or ethically tough, but they also present pivotal plot twists 
 that affect permanently the rest of the game. This not only augments it's replayability, but also 
 makes you care about what you say and what you think. Like all Bioware games, there is a Good vs. 
 Evil system (Paragon and Renegade, respectively) which will also determine much of the way your 
 character can interact with others.
  
  Combat is very good, a la Gears Of War, using an over the shoulder perspective. No ammo counts, 
 just an overheat meter, though the upgrades and ammo types are more than enough to keep weapon 
 hoarding fans happy, because, even if you are limited to pistol, shotgun, assault rifle and sniper 
 rifle, the variety of weapons available, make it worth your while. It would have been appreciated 
 that the new found weapons could have some stats more augmented than others (for instance a more 
 accurate sniper, but less damaging) but in the end, is not that big of a deal.
  
  Combat also involves the use of powers called "biotics", which, despite their long reload times, 
 are very useful to knock down enemies with ease.
  
  Now that the gameplay is covered, lets turn to the tech part. The game is powered by the Unreal 
 Engine 3, so, as you can imagine, the graphical aspect is fantastic. Of course, the self-shadowing 
 glitches of the UE 3 are still there, but they are not an excuse to complain about. There is a 
 certain lack of freedom, but is the same lack of freedom we have found in other games like Rainbow 
 Six: Vegas: trade jump in for cover ability (and the cover ability is even smoother than in R6. 
 No keys involved!) . One thing that could have been improved though, is loading times, but they are 
 shorter than those on the Source engine, so is not really a problem.
  
  Level design at first might be a bit bland (the Citadel is ugly) , but as you land in other planets 
 and explore either their surfaces on side quests or on the main plot, you'll see that a lot of 
 effort has been put in order to make a very streamlined gameplay experience. The vegetal ambients 
 are lush, and labs are ascetic, just like they should be. Ice is greatly represented, and the use 
 of light bloom and coronas is fantastic. The facial expressions are highly believable (if a bit 
 stiff at times) and the animations are flawless. Sometimes, the levels may get a bit linear, but 
 it's not for long.
  
  Under the sound department, the game is pretty solid. Sometimes the music gets a bit repetitive, 
 but thats only 2% of the time. Otherwise, it magnifically ambients the game's universe with subtle 
 synth tones that manage to capture the mood of a civilization exploring the universe beautifully. 
 The voice acting is top notch, with Keith Davids and Seth Green lending their voices, and the general 
 sound, like combat noises and ambiental sound is very well made.
  
  This game is supposed to be the first part of a trilogy. If it truly is, then Bioware might have 
 in their hands another Half-Life. 
  
  P. S: Remember to press F6 often. That's my only peeve. Saves aren't frequent enough.
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adversary16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 11:55 pm PT
Review:  First impressions:-
  At first, I wasn't much impressed by the game - not that I was disappointed or anything but M. E. 
 looked like any other RPG, and let alone the fact that it was a little slow-paced. Then I took 
 a break and...
  
  Actual impressions:-
  I was totally immersed! The M. E. is so believable, and sci-fi at the same time. Part of that reason 
 may come from the fact that it also features a codex where a great voice explains you pretty much 
 everything in the game. This leads to another one of the strong points of Mass Effect as it is 
 packed with so many subtle details which in turn, significantly improve the atmosphere. As for 
 the creativity and originality, I'm simply stunned! Perhaps the game borrowed ideas from others, 
 but the developers did a perfect task at doing so.
  Dialogue - The refined conversation system allows for quick response and it lets you to be part 
 of a compelling story! It was worth mentioning!
  
  Gameplay:-
  There's absolutely nothing to worry about M. E's gameplay as it offers many classes to choose from, 
 may it be Vanguard, Soldier, Adept and more! However, the only thing that bugged me is the inventory 
 management. Simply put, it's all about taking, not managing!
  
  PC Version, graphics & performance:-
  As far as I'm concerned, the PC is the definite platform 
 to play Mass Effect, unlike the X360 which offers either average and good experience, depending 
 on how much of a beast is your PC.
  Graphics - they are indeed sharper but minor bugs plague this otherwise perfect game. Nothing prevents 
 you from tweaking the game though.
  Performance - it runs unbelievably smooth! Stable & reliable!
  The DRM isn't annoying at all!
 
  
  Conclusion:-
  If you're an RPG fan, you have to buy this game! On the other hand, if you're a fast-paced action 
 shooter fan, Mass Effect won't necessarily appeal to you since there's a lot of talking involved 
 but who knows?
  Goodbye, guys! I'm going to re-play it! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: highwayman2000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 11:22 pm PT
Review:  Now to some up the basics, you play Commander Shepherd. You have been drafted to initially recover 
 an artifact...
  
  And from there, the game leads you further into saving humanity if if all existence against the 
 evils of Saren, has you gather your ARCH ENEMY that you will really want to see dead. 
  
  All I can say is that it was so intense that I required time out from missions to carry on from 
 where started, and I became more aware that say NOT playing for over a week - you become so gripped 
 by the game that you don't slumber at all.
  
  This game is so great in terms that I don't usually play the sci fi genre, this opens the gateway 
 that there is life out there!
  
  Personally, I don't intend to inform you with the juicey details of the game because I will be 
 spoiling the fun away from you right?
  
  Let's see, to be critical, I suppose the game graphics is not has top notch has Crisis and perhaps 
 the engine too - needless to say, I give exceptions that I enjoyed the visual details of the play 
 and the graphics was just right for a NOT quite extremely high computer ( say medium if ya asking! 
 )
  
  Space fights in space in minimum - therefore, you require a game where you control the a spaceship 
 for FPS, not the game for you. Even so, the FPS of the game is not too intelligent is you keep 
 upgrading you weapons and sense that you are not much of a challenge at times.
  
  Please don't get me wrong, I loved it and I would recommend that so far mid-year, this game is 
 worth playing and it sneaks on you has highly addictive though.
  
  Anyway, that 's my view of the lovely game and I hope those in Bioware keep up the good work for 
 a another great title! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcthpro
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Maybe not the Best Action game for people but the STORY OF the RPG IS a True Saga Id want it TO 
 never End same for Star Wars 
  It should live for long time. And the STORY IS FAR the BEST I could have
  since Dark cloud 2 
 For magic & Sword RPG Actions
  KOTR FOR The Complexity of it Story path Evil or Good
  Mass effect missed some Detail on it but it WAS Quite good 
  I Think the True end is paragon 
 and Alternative ending is pragmatic
  
  The Story is about 35 hour OF exploring planet & Encounter
  The main default was the Barrack 
 & underground where all the same
  Expect Loots & monster Planet a bit too similar of each other
  But all game as it Begins if they 
 ad more DATA storage & Better Budget
  They could made Diversity to reach a 9.8 or 10/10 rating
  I belive mass effect 2 Gona be a Big 
 hit
  I can't wait to see GOOD STORY LIKE THAT 
  people who think mass Effect isn't good and boring are people who as no taste for RPG that my opinions
 
  
  you have Each character Deep StoryLine & Way to deal with them
  Wrex The Krogans & The Quarians Tali Examples of Great Storyline 
  maybe one day Dead project 
 will reborn there lot of stuff left in past without ending story : like shenmu : dark cloud saga 
 or Dark chronicle same name
  sudeki . it go endless glad they re-activated command & conquer saga
  hope mass effect doesn't 
 die Before someting FAR greater It Story-line as Being made and i think it won't happen soon 
 
  
  As long Good Company like bioware & Blizzard like Stick to people mind
  instead of making Crap game like eA Games as tend to do to releash lot of game even if there half 
 good as they should be such as medal of honor airborn 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Winzip_98
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 14, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  I must admit that I expected Mass Effect to suck, since it is an FPS RPG that was ported from the 
 Xbox, of all consoles. I was pleased to find out it was fun.
  I started playing the game in the afternoon at a friend's house, and was rudely shown to the door 
 later on since it was already past midnight, and I haven't stopped playing!
  So what makes this game good? Well, graphics aside, the game has a pretty simple interface, lots 
 of gunfights (though quite repetitive after a while) and enough side quests to please RPG fans 
 like myself. The story is quite good, though a standard now days with all RPGs, with alot of interesting 
 characters, large explorable terrain and a sense of freedom that is hard to find in most RPGs.
 
  Now that I wrote about the good bits in the game, lets move on to the criticism. 
  Mass Effect, like I stated in the headlines, does nothing new. What was taken from Knights of the 
 Old Republic was altered for simplification (i. e attributes and feats) , and the gunfights seem 
 to be repetitive, with the enemy AI being retarded. The environments and complexes' designs are 
 THE SAME, with only changes made in the random placements of equipment and anomalies\mission objectives\resources. 
 
  Also, I wouldn't be a true critic to the game if I didn't mention that infuriating Mako vehicle 
 that handles like a truck without wheels.
  I'd like to mention a few other things that got on my nerve as well. For example, all the weapons 
 are identical, with changes only shown in the paint.
  Secondly, the moral choice system is a bit old, as the only options are good or evil, which are 
 overused.
  Thirdly, the classes are pathetic, and skilling up as well.
  Lastly, the decrypting can be rather annoying, since after the first 2 times, playing Frogger can 
 be annoying.
  All in all I liked Mass Effect, as a player who plays both RPGs and FPSs, I must say its a nice 
 try at mixing the 2 genres, but I'll hold for Obsidian's Mass Effect 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Latz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 12:45 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect has gotten the closest by far to an interactive movie experience combined with game 
 play of all the games I've played so far - a great score combined with (for a change) good voice 
 acting and great use of cinematic angles which really come to life with well used depth of field 
 attribute much to the cinematic feel of he game - a great story full of intelligent twist and mountains 
 of imagination with a shallow learning curve make for a really great game that literally anyone 
 can enjoy.
  
  The exploration part in the Mako is a bit shabby bit it's not a significant part of the game and 
 could have been done better - it's like the imagination ran out a little on that one so it stands 
 out from the rest of the game as a sore thumb...
  
  It's an instant classic...
  
  There are, as always with big productions, a few bugs in the game but of minor significance and 
 they don't really interfere with the game play so there is no point in lowering the score cause 
 of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megawavez
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  I've already played through this game on the 360 and was curious to see what they've done with 
 it on the PC. It's basically the same game with some enhancements to gameplay: hotkeys for use 
 in combat, and an improved inventory system.
  
  I'm actually not sure if I enjoyed the PC combat more than the xbox, but the hotkeys are a nice 
 way of not interrupting a good firefight.
  
  The MAKO drove me nuts on the 360 and it's all the same for the PC - I also found it extremely 
 frustrating to use on the PC. Hopefully in ME2, they'll either slow it down and make it easier 
 to drive or just get rid of it all together. It's the only part of the game I found truly irritating.
 
  
  When I originally played through the game on the 360, I got a little bored about halfway through 
 and was kind of thinking "what's up with this game"? I continued playing and it picked up again 
 - by the end I was thinking I might have played the best video game ever - if anything for the 
 awesome story. I've since played it through several more times just to try the different character 
 options.
  
  I've got a core2duo 2.13, 2gb ram, geoforce 7800, 22" widescreen. The game didn't run particularly 
 smooth, but not so much I didn't enjoy it. It probably looks great on a killer rig, but then again, 
 you're gonna have to pay for that. It actually seemed to run a little smoother on the 360.
  
  If you decide to play this game, the first thing I'd do is turn off the film grain - it tends 
 to look like you're playing in algae filled fish tank with it on.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainShifty
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is a hell of alot like Kotor with some adjustments here and there. First off im gonna 
 talk about the main story line which as long as you stay on task with you could probly beat in 
 a matter of hours even if your a begginer. Im not saying the games bad its just a really well developed 
 but short game. Aside from the shortness of the main game there are side quests to keep you going 
 for quite a long time. However most of these are the same and youl notice that to by the time youv 
 done atleast 10 of them. But there all good cause hey there only side quests. 
  
  Now to the graphics, there good really good but when it comes to planets there barren and pretty 
 much all the same except for the main 4 or 5 you go to asking me the game could have been worked 
 on a bit here in variation. Other than the lack of difference between different things these graphics 
 are amazing and few can compete with it. The space ships pro, the buildings pro, the characters 
 pro, graphics pro i think i got my point across.
  
  The gameplay is well nothing really new and is where the Kotor really shows. Other than the modifying 
 of the turnbased combat to real time id say its the same. Level you get skills, use skills, upgrade 
 equipment and carry on to save the universe. Yah yah yah same old same old but since they did change 
 the combat system ill talk about it. First off it uses a shooter system which is relativly good 
 somewhat basic but it all works, the more you shoot the more recoil you get and your guns overheat 
 not really any aiming problems here so they did a pretty good job. Speaking off the shooting system 
 theres 4 types of weapons pistol, rifle, shot gun, and sniper rifle if your like me youl find the 
 assualt rifle the gun your using most often. 
  
  Now characters you got a bit of choice here. you got your normal skills such as more health and 
 strength but there are other skills suh as hacking ability and biotic skills, hacking being stealth 
 and stealing like skills, and biotic is what i would call phychic sorta skills. lastly theres weapon 
 profeciency skills that make you more accurate and do more damage. You level up and choose your 
 path like any other good rpg as you level your skill you get speciel abillities such as creating 
 a sheild around yourself or going on a rampage. You also get a team as you meet new characters 
 in the story which you also customize.
  
  Well that pretty much covers the game in a nutshell so i suggest you get it if your into this game 
 unless you played it at a friends or somethen than i wouldnt really worry about it. My final verdict 
 is try it out than buy it if you like it a 8.5 outta 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jay0012k3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 11:14 pm PT
Review:  Its got everything that you would look for as a RPG fan - Amazing visuals, original story, good 
 game play, interesting characters, good sound track etc
  
  The story is about a human named commander Sheperd. The main character could be either male or 
 female. The player is given the choice of selecting different personal backgrounds, class and special 
 abilities. This is well suited to appeal to players with varying tastes. Hence there is a lot of 
 replay value here as the main character interacts differently depending on his/her background, 
 class etc.
  
  The graphics are stunning and the presentation is like a movie. Both the console versions and the 
 PC version look great however the PC version requires a beefed up system to enjoy all the eye candy. 
 The PC version also has a small stutter problem from time to time but nothing serious as to hamper 
 the overall experience. 
  
  The audio score is one of the best I've seen in a RPG. The Elder Scrolls IV Oblivion fascinated 
 many gamers when it was released and audio played an important factor in determining the success 
 of that game. Same goes with Mass Effect. It feels like original cinematic score. 
  
  The game play is very good and responsive. There are many weapons for your character to play with 
 and also special abilities like biotic/tech damages that you can use to overpower the enemy. Put 
 this all into the mix with easy to understand HUD and UI and you have a winner. Initially you may 
 feel that there is so much on your plate thanks to a poor tutorial system however as you play through 
 the game you should be able to get the hand of it. 
  
  Finally I recommend every RPG fan or casual gamer to go out and buy this masterpiece. Its worth 
 the $ 49.99 tag. Beautiful visuals, good game play and stunning background score all make this 
 a highly addictive and memorable classic. 
  
  I give it a 9.5 out of 10. If it wasn't for the PC version's occasional stuttering problem this 
 game would have got a perfect 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emsears
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Let me start with general parts of the game.
  
  The graphics are excellent. I could tell that the team really put their hearts into the look and 
 feel of the game. It does require a very, very good computer. If you have something slightly less, 
 expect constant loading times and hang ups before big fights. I have other issues, too. More on 
 that later.
  
  The story is interesting and the characters are fleshed out. I found myself really hating the "bad 
 guys" and when bad things happened, I cared. However, the game is too short. My first play through 
 with the main storyline and most side quests was 15-20 hours long. Epic space operas should be 
 much longer.
  
  Sound and music really fit the game. There were a few times when I was irked. For example, I was 
 in a room that was empty near a club, but over the dull thudding of the music next door, I could 
 hear a woman having a good time, as if I was standing next to her. Also, is seems as if BioWare 
 reused sounds from previous games for the Geth. These are small complaints.
  
  All in all, this game is very good and it sets a benchmark for other RPGs to come with graphics 
 and story... but it is mediocre for BioWare because I have seen better from them.
  
  To make my point, I'll compare Mass Effect to Knights of the Old Republic (KotOR) .
  
  In Mass 
 Effect, there is one world (The Citadel) that you can go to whenever you want and when you go back, 
 there always seems to be something new to do. The quests run out after a time, of course, but sometimes 
 you have to do something on another world to trigger more quests on this one. This makes it feel 
 like a living, breathing world where events happen while you are gone. There are three other worlds, 
 initially, with some more quests, but they are really there simply to speed along the storyline. 
 If you leave, you cannot go back. There is no reason to, but it is almost as if the world has been 
 swept off the map... even though I didn't destroy it... Maybe that helps to emphasize the urgency 
 of the main quest?
  
  There are other secondary planets that you can land on. These serve as a treasure hunt or a hideaway 
 for mercs or rogue scientists... who all live and work in labs and bases designed by the same architect... 
 and they move boxes around to make it their own. Couldn't they have hung some banners or scrawled 
 graffiti on the wall? After the third planet, there was nothing more to see.
  
  KotOR has a handful of worlds to visit. All of them are chock full of quests and few of them feel 
 like mundane messenger jobs. (Find me 20 data disks. OK? OK.) Excuse me. I'm saving the galaxy 
 right now. I really don't want to be driving my rover over rocky terrain (fun for the first five 
 minutes until a bump in a mountain shoots my rover into the wrong direction) to find ore deposits. 
 That's what survey teams are for. I would, however, "convince" your buddy on another planet to 
 repay your load if that means I can have a really cool gun It has to be pretty cool It's that 
 galaxy saving thing
  
  I understand that some of the appeal to the game is that you have a large galaxy to explore (Star 
 Control?) . I would much rather have a few more planets with major quests on them and the ability 
 and need to visit multiple planets to finish a quest than to go through the mundane just because 
 I need the cash and experience.
  
  The morality system is interesting with Mass Effect. In KotOR, if you did something bad, you earned 
 dark side points. If you did something good, you lost those points. In Mass Effect, Good and Bad 
 are separate and you gain intimidate or charm skills as you go. The difference is, you can do bad 
 things and good things, but you don't lose your charm or intimidate abilities. This makes sense 
 because a person might steal money from someone because they are greedy, but turn around and act 
 nice to the next person because he likes him. He should not be forgiven for being greedy just because 
 he made his best buddy smile.
  
  KotOR changed the character and how people reacted to him as he reached a particular side of the 
 moral spectrum. I would have liked to see more of a snarl on Shepard's face as he becomes more 
 asinine and I want to hear the denizens of the Citadel whisper about his latest slaughter of innocent 
 colonists as he walked by. Or smile. I saw very few smiles. Smirks, maybe. Also, every once and 
 a while, I was told that the Alliance was happy or that the people of Earth were upset, but the 
 only other mention I would see of that was some news report in the elevator. What? No fan mail 
 from Earth? No messages from Turians who were disturbed at my "Earth now" remarks?
  
  Mainly, Mass Effect was a very fun game. The company who made this has proven to me that they can 
 make a game with more substance. That is why I give is an 8.5. If someone else had made it, it 
 might have received a 9.
  
  I recommend the game to everyone. If you are a KotOr fan, wait until the price goes down a bit. 
 And then buy it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rj5958
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played such a good RPG for a while now. Maybe the last good RPG-ish shooter PC game I 
 played was System Shock 2 (which came out in 1999) or Deus Ex (I remember the first one the best) . 
 People say this game has some similarities to Knights of the Old Republic but I found this game 
 to be a lot more entertaining than any Knights of the Old Republic because of 3rd person shooter 
 aspect of this game. This game plays like a shooter but deep down it's an RPG. This game pulls 
 off this hybrid style very well and I couldn't stop playing it (I finished the game with about 
 80-90% of all quests done in 32 hours; or at least that's what my last save said) .
  
  What I enjoyed most about this game (apart from the gameplay and progression of the story itself) 
 was the Codex. Usually when a RPG game like Oblivion or Knights of the Old Republic gives you supplementary 
 information they give it in text and I'm one of those people who don't enjoy reading when playing 
 video games. So what Mass Effect did was have it read aloud. I loved it, it's these little things 
 that really flesh out the characters. The history that was told to me had actual NPC references 
 within the game (like Asari reproduction misconceptions and the Rachni wars) . It also felt like 
 a breath of fresh air to see some new alien races that really seemed alive rather than a one dimensional 
 caricatures.
  
  Though I'm speaking praises about Mass Effect, it still has it's short comings. For instance, there 
 are some major slow downs even when played on ex-cutting edge rig (that's about 6 months old) . 
 But these slow downs are not frequent enough to put me off the game (though the startup takes a 
 while) .
  
  I also like the replayability of this game because you can reuse your old character to play through 
 a new game (like Disgaea) and you get to keep all the sweet loot you get from your last game completion. 
 There are also a lot of achievements and unlockables to discover.
  
  But if you're the kind of gamer that has little patience this game might not be for you because 
 some parts of the game feel really slow (maybe it's the elevator rides or the clunky zooming in 
 and out of everything) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: camar001
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Ive not reviewed many games here on Gamespot, but I like to think that my reviews have been looked 
 upon well and have allowed people to make an informed decision about whether or not to buy a game. 
 Well, this is my biggest challenge yet. This game promised so much... and it simply falls short 
 both figuritively and literally. Lets begin shall we?
  
  The Good: 
  
  I always start off with the good stuff, so here it is. The game looks amazing! Everything is so 
 highly detailed from the textures of peoples faces to the walls, trees, sky... you name it. Bioware 
 had an army of artists locked in a room for 23hours a day... they must have. The visuals are stunning 
 to behold and really, REALLY draw you into the game. No other game out there can compare, not even 
 Crysis in my opinion. Very well done and very well polished.
  
  The cahracters are all really cool. They all have their own motives, history and reasons for fighting 
 the good fight and you can talk to them all on your ship, the SSV Normandy. You even get a chance 
 to decide which one of them dies at some point... I wont spoil it for you though.
  
  The Universe... is stunning. The galaxy they have created, the depth of detail in each and every 
 race both major and minor is staggering and is a tribute to Bioware. I sat down and listened to 
 ever single entry in the Codex just to get a feel for the galaxy I was saving. And its worth it. 
 It really fleshes out the depth of the game.
  
  The voice acting is incredible. Ive seen some games with truly dire voice action, and most manage 
 just mediocre, but this is brilliant. Though, the main character seems to be really.... blazay about 
 things.... all the time. What is he? A vulcan? He looses his temper maybe twice... there is no really 
 good shouting either. I wanna hear shouting and swearing when Im in combat... I know I would be 
 if it were real. But, thats really a minor niggle. For the most part... its all very, VERY well 
 done.
  
  Story is good, but its also its worst point. See the bad below. Its well paced, written and thought 
 out. But, its flawed so baddly, that it almost ruins the game.
  
  
  Okay, thats the good, now for the bad. ITS TOO SHORT!!! The main plot line is woefully inadequate. 
 They say 20-30 hours for the main plot line and up to 50 total if you do all the side quests. Bah!! 
 Total Garbage. I just finished my first run through and completed the main quest with some of the 
 side quests in under... get this....15hours. Thats p*** poor Bioware. We expect better of you. A 
 decent RPG should be alot longer than that... around the 70 hour mark. And you could have done it 
 easily.
  
  Unchartted Worlds are scattered all over the place. Most of them you cant land on but one or two 
 you can. Great you think? No... they are partically carbon copies with a different colour texture 
 for the landscape. Its boring!! Its like the decided to add these towards the end of development 
 cuz they realized that the main story was stupidly short. It didnt work Bioware and we demand more 
 of you in Mass Effect 2.
  
  Well, that about sums it up. It could have been a classic, instead it just ends up being great. 
 Dont let it put you off though, this is a game that you will love playing... even if it is too short. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WendoXXX
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Amazing game. Really sets a new standard for all upcoming rpg: s. your choices really have massive 
 impact on the games story and even some on the game play. I just completed it and already feel 
 like starting at new char and playing the game all over again since there where so many things 
 i could have done different and ofc try an other class. I hope there will be an expansion soon 
 also on top of the free content coming soon. 
  
  Now i only need to hit the 100 words limit to complete this review. 
  
  Words Words Words Words 
 Words Words Words Words Words Words Words Words Words Words Words Words Words Words Words Words 
 Words Words Words Words Words Words Words Words Words Words Words Words Words Words Words Words 
 Words Words Words Words Words Words Words Words Words Words Words Words Words Words Words Words 
 Words Words Words Words Words Words Words Words Words Words Words Words Words Words Words Words 
 Words Words Words Words Words Words Words Words Words Words Words Words 
  
  That should do it. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  I really love Bioware. They are a solid company and they always produce quality RPG titles 
  
  Anyway my points:
  
  PROS
  -Beautiful graphics (especially in Ultra quality mode)
  
 -Great cinematic sci-fi story
  -Simple and addictive gameplay (KOTOR style)
  -Great sound (especially if you own a soundcard with Hardware acceleration) 
  
  -------------------------------
 
  -------------------------------
  CONS
  -Some annoying gameplay bugs
  -Some system bugs (not in my PC fortunately) 
  -Some NPC alien voices sound to much like human... 
 
  -AI is behaving very stupid in some occasions
  
  IF you are a RPG fan i am sure that you are going to love this game.
  The game is in my opinion 
 for now the best RPG title that someone can buy.
  
  It seems strange to me that Bioware released this title first for the consoles only. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamsorkin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  Simply put, I really enjoyed this game. What grabbed me initially was the strong narrative - good 
 story, believable (at least as much as aliens can be) characters, and good performance made for 
 a pretty compelling experience that sucked me in. There's nothing really "new" here - anybody that's 
 played Bioware games in the past (KOTOR, especially) , or Halo, or Gears of War, or even watched 
 Battlestar Galactica or Star Trek is going to recognize a lot of familiar themes. However, they're 
 very well put together, and feel reasonably fresh. And it had real, honest-to-god, satisifying 
 ending. Sure, it set up the inevitable sequel, but Bioware gave us some real closure instead of 
 a shameless cliffhanger.
  
  On top of that, the game was fun to play. I enjoyed the nice mix of RPG-questing and squad-shooter 
 action, which were woven mostly seamlessly through the main campaign and side quests. The branching 
 dialogue was fairly well done - and the opportunity to play Shephard as "paragon" or "renegade" 
 makes for fun change of pace on replays. The third person shooter style gameplay, while lighter 
 than some similar entries, felt pretty natural to me once I got a feel for the (GoW-esque) cover 
 and shoot mechanic, and the AI on squad members was decent enough to not be effective if you managed 
 their weapons well enough. Classes seemed to be well balanced - you could effectively play as a 
 tank-like soldier, engineer, or biotic with little difficulty. I particularly appreciated how well 
 developed the three hybrid classes (solider-biotic as close combat specialist, soldier-engineer 
 as sniper, etc...) were, rather than being cast in the jack-of-all trades, master-of-none molds.
 
  
  Demiurge appears to have a done a great job with the PC port. Technically, the game worked great 
 on my rig with a solid, older CPU (Opterton 1.65 GHz dual core) , 2GB RAM, and brand new, middle 
 of the line GPU (9600 GT) . I was able to play with ultra high textures, and medium particle effects 
 with no real performance hit, and the loading pauses mentioned in the official review were minimal 
 on my end. Armors, guns, and alien faces looked fantastic. I haven't seen much of the original 
 HUD, and menu interface, but I found them generally effective here (I have a feeling that mouse 
 and keyboard opened up a lot with this game) .
  
  Most importantly, the gameplay, story, and design kept me engaged from start to finish - I felt 
 satisfied at the end, but wanted more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JasmoVT
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 6:34 am PT
Review:  Yes the voice acting is great, and the graphics range form good to excellent with the facial expression 
 being the best. Nothing in the scenery, however, leaves that OMG moment one gets in Oblivion.
 
  
  The story line is good, but as one plays there is the overwhelming experience of de je vu. It is 
 not just that the missions and settings in the game are repetitive. They are pretty much the same 
 as in KOTORII, Even down to alien races having the same speech mannerism as aliens in KOTORII. 
 I mean come on guys how much does it take to come up with half a dozen races that don't acting 
 and speak like the ones you already did.
  
  If you liked KOTORII you will like Mass Effect, but although dressed in somewhat pretty clothes 
 there is nothing new here. They have done nothing that advances the gaming art.
  
  All very pedestrian. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wait321
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 31, 2009 8:53 pm PT
Review:  This game offers a fun experience. For an RPG, the combat mechanics are decent and the storyline 
 is solid. The sci-fi setting is appealing since everyone's familiar with the notion and limits 
 of technology whereas anything goes for magic. The various abilities, weapons, and stats creates 
 a large pool of combat options and ensures that the battles are not repetitive. The paragon/renegade 
 system is great improvement over Bioware's good/evil system that's in their other rpgs, because 
 it's more realistic. People and actions can rarely be classified as good or evil and it's silly 
 for a game to try.
  
  However, there are several mechanics that need to be tweaked. For one, there's no need for the 
 player to drive around the Mako on the planets, especially since 90% of every planet is nothing 
 but mountainous terrain. Driving from place to place is a chore and took away from my enjoyment 
 of the game. 
  
  I also don't like how there's only a few "dungeons" blueprints on various worlds and every place 
 just fills one of the dungeons with different furniture and enemies. Like the empty terrain, this 
 repetition makes it seem like the designers were lazy.
  
  Lastly, the sniper rifle is useless. There's no limit on the range of weapons, so as soon as you 
 fire on an enemy, they all fire at you and hit you hard. The computer opponents have near perfect 
 aim and the sniper rifle cannot kill in one hit, so using it puts you in a situation where you'll 
 die before you get off a second shot.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blowtrees
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 11, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Practically every RPG for the PC these days is either MMO or D&D. Mass Effect is neither and hell, 
 for bonus points, it's got a sci-fi theme. I love it already.
  
  Firstly, I have not played or even seen the Xbox version of this game. But it's got to be one of 
 the best Xbox RPG's ever made (that's usually Sony's gig anyway though right?) . I mean top 5 right? 
 But here's where I digress, being a great xbox title is one thing, but I expect more from a PC 
 RPG. 
  
  The story is typical, a diabolical super criminal tries to unleash an ancient slumbering evil and 
 put an end to civilization, while the protagonist (that's you buddy) sets out to stop him. Everything 
 plays out with a streamlined motion picture like feel, every so often stopping to allow you to 
 choose your lines. Some choices inherantly good, and others evil along with (usually) a grey area 
 for those who want to be good but not sound like a queer. But fear not, the dialogue for the most 
 part is very good and no choice is ever really that different from another. Sadly it also means 
 no quest or character interaction ever winds up being impacted in any significant way. 
  
  This adds to to what I think is an extremely linear feel to the game (made me think of the first 
 Halo) . Still this is an RPG, so the package gets all dressed up. Really you get four or five big 
 missions, which usually require little missions along the way and then a few dozen side missions 
 for items and stats which you can go the whole game without ever doing. Also to my disdain the 
 side missions are the same thing over and over again (which I guess is par for the course on PC) . 
 You get your 'gofer' missions, and your 'kill these guys' missions. Now to get to and complete 
 some of these missions you need vehicles. There's your spaceship (sci-fi remember?) and your Tank/APC. 
 One gets you to places, the other lets you explore said places. That's pretty much it. Although 
 the latter has it's good moments. The APC combat is also very reminicent of Halo, which isn't a 
 bad thing. Better than the hoverboat in HL2. Your cannon gets two fire modes, machine gun and artillery 
 shell. Both are far more usefull when zoomed in. When there's a lot going on, this is really fun. 
 Mostly there's not going to be anything to fight, and you'll just driving around with no way to 
 ever speed up. 
  
  Now, while exploring or playing fetch you may come across somebody or something that may want to 
 do you harm. Unless you're doing a story mission though, you won't see much of that. Besides the 
 objective you're meant to eradicate, worlds are vast, barren and unremarkable. I almost would have 
 welcomed random battles about halfway through the game. The bordem sets in quickly with all the 
 repetition. The story missions however are very well built, and while some areas could use more 
 opposition, the combat is usally very well balanced (as in, you whoopin' on the baddies all day) 
 and the pace is engaging. On the harder difficulties that are unlocked after playing through, it 
 can be downright tough. But Veteran (hard) or lower is a cakewalk. 
  
  Combat had me a bit confused. Are you an action game, or an RPG? It's not first person but it feels 
 like a shooter. Aside from slight pauses when you hit the spacebar to pull up your skills or issue 
 squad commands, this game is pure run n gun. I had 3 guys, first a soldier, which inevitably made 
 me angry when I no longer had the right skill to open chests, then an infiltrator (soldier/tech 
 hybrid) which let me open the chests but not use any weapons. Then lastly a new infiltrator after 
 my achievments allowed any new character to be made with an extra weapon trait (I chose shotty, 
 although the assult rifle is arguably the better weapon) . This i think is the best setup even without 
 heavy armor since tech skills let you debuff the enemy while choppin em up with an assult weapon, 
 plus your not going to get hit anyway right? Unfortunately you have to have the achievements first 
 to unlock the extra weapon or else infiltrators are stuck with just the pistol and sniper rifle. 
 The other class is Biotic, which has real nice abilities that subdue and stop enemies but have 
 no weapons (hybrid gets pistol and sniper rifle like the other hybrid) . I find this class crappy 
 to play though (soldier is by far the most enjoyable) and the AI does a very decent job of using 
 these skills, so it's better to just keep a biotic in your squad. 
  
  During battle, there is no ammo. You fire until you overheat, then are forced to wait for a 'cooldown' 
 which I believe is either short or long depending on the weapon, and the difficulty, but I have 
 to double check that. By the time you're a quarter way through, you'll have learned duration of 
 fire is usually more important than damage per shot. I prefer force though, and died many times 
 thanks to overheating and needing to swap weapons real quick. To issue commands or use skills just 
 hold the spacebar for a slight pause to do your thing then release. It's not what I'd call 'on 
 the fly' but it's real close. You can also macro skills to the 1-8 keys. Your weapons all get 2 
 mods - Ammo and Barrel. Ammo mods enchance your fire, anywhere from dps to bypassing shields to 
 enhancing damage. Barrel mods usually affect accuracy, recoil, damage or anti-jamming devices. 
 From time to time your radar will be jammed and becomes useless until you destroy all nearby enemies. 
 To do that you don't need your radar anyway because the enemies are, well, nearby. Armor has mods 
 as well, enhancing defense, shields or regain health per second etc. 
  
  Managing these items is a CHORE. Probably my biggest argument with the whole game here. The interface 
 is terrible (which, should be read aloud as if spoken by Charles Barkley) . Items don't stack, you 
 only get 150 total and it's impossible to select multiple items at once. So much wasted clicking 
 to free up eight slots to get more crap that i'll be forced click away at because it's garbage 
 anyway. And be wary, if your at your max and open your inventory with items pending, your forced 
 to trash all the new items, no swapping allowed. Trashing items is far more benefitial to selling 
 them though, since even with the right skills items are worth nothing. Trashing them gives you 
 omni-gel which can be used to repair your APC and open containers you fail to decrypt (unlock) . 
 Buying items seems equally useless, as they tend to be very expensive, and never any better than 
 what you find during battle or in containers. 
  
  That's all I can think of right now, I'm close to finishing the game and am looking forward to 
 it. It plays fast, and the story has been very engaging and fun to play. Sadly the rest just feels 
 rushed together in order to say that your game isn't only 10 hours long. I like everything about 
 this game except that it's not quite everything it could be. I recommend renting it, but I'm glad 
 I own it. When does #2 come out? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrbojangles25
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 11, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Hype and video games seem to go hand in hand; one can rarely come to Gamespot without seeing a 
 game being claimed as the greatest to be made, and this seems to occur with many games made by 
 large studios. Unfortunately, most games rarely live up to this hype. Fortunately for us, Mass 
 Effect, a scifi RPG, lives and in my opinion exceeds the hype. It is everything I expected from 
 a great developer like Bioware, and even more.
  
  Mass effect takes place in the distant future in outer space. Players assume control of Commander 
 Shepard, a military hero of epic proportion. Before you get to the actual gameplay, players are 
 given a good amount of customization options. Players can choose the sex, class, and facial appearance 
 of their character and can even choose their player's "history", ranging from a ruthless commander 
 that was kidnapped on a frontier colony of space to a war hero who's family has served the Alliance 
 for generations. Even better, choosing your history alters some gameplay later in the game, adding 
 to replayability. My only complaint with the character creation feature is that I wish there were 
 options to change body type, height, etc... as it is now, however, there are enough options to keep 
 people happy.
  
  In terms of classes to play, there is the traditional "action-RPG" assortment. You can play as: 
 a soldier, a tough trooper proficient with heavy armor and weapons; an engineer, who is skilled 
 with electronics and can disable enemy weapons, unlock otherwise inaccesable crates and such, and 
 can tamper with enemy shields; an adept, someone who uses biotics ("magic") to harm enemies by 
 throwing them in the air, pushing them across a room, and more; and you can play as a combo class 
 (soldier and engineer, soldier and biotic, and lastly engineer and biotic) . My first time around 
 I played as an engineer and biotic and it was a boatload of fun.
  
  While your class choice will effect how you play, gameplay tends to follow a single path and that 
 consist of gunplay. While your biotic and engineering powers do and frequently come into play, 
 Mass Effect is definately a solid third-person shooter and, as a result, you do a lot of shooting. 
 As you finsih missions and kill, you gain experience, loot, and money. There are many areas to 
 spend points in, and as you spend points and progress rank in certain specializations, you unlock 
 new abilities. For example, if you put points into the pistol tree, you gain damage and accuracy, 
 but eventually you get the "marksman" ability and if you spend enough points you can unlock the 
 shotgun tree. The are various classes of weapons and armor, and they get upgraded as well. Initially 
 you might have an Assault Rifle I, but later in the game you will get an Assault Rifle IX. Weapons 
 and armor can also be upgraded as well; you can add different types of ammunition to guns, and 
 can add upgrades to armor that increase shields or health regenration.
  
  In addition to the shooter gameplay, the role-playing elements of the game are extremely deep. 
 NPC interaction is the among the best I have ever experienced, and the choices of dialog are varied. 
 Mass Effect handles the conversations in an interesting fashion as well: when you speak to someone, 
 conversation are split into two "sections" on a dialogue wheel; one the left side you have your 
 general, unbiased information dialogue tree, and on the right you have your storyline tree. The 
 storyline tree is where you effect your alignment (paragon (good) , neutral, and renegade (evil) ) . 
 Each alignment is given a dialogue choice. For example, when you are given a ship you can tell 
 the previous captain "this isnt right, they took your ship from you" (paragon) , "I wont let you 
 down" (neutral) , or "its about damn time I got my own ship" (renegade) .
  
  Visually, Mass Effect is crisp and clean, and the facial animatons and rendering are the best I 
 have seen. The range of emotions NPCs can show is simply amazing; whether its skepticism, anger, 
 and the occasional flirting expression, it all adds to the immersion of the game. Unfortunately, 
 Mass Effect suffers from muddled graphics that carry over from the console. While NPCs, lighting, 
 and other flashy stuff looks excellent, the textures of the various environments you encounter 
 tend to be a little plain and boring. It would be nice to see some detail, but as it is now Mass 
 Effect is still a great looking game and should not disappoint anyone.
  
  Audio is another part where Mass Effect shines. I havent explored all the options, but there must 
 be hundreds of hours of dialogue in the game. Voice acting is done very well for the most part, 
 and veterans of KOTOR 1 and 2 might even recognize a few familiar voices. Guns sound futuristic 
 but also beefy (dont worry, no pansy "pew pew pew" laser guns here!) .
  
  In conclusion, I feel Mass Effect is one of the greatest games ever made. Any KOTOR veteran needs 
 to own this game since it will feel so familiar and good, and anyone who enjoys a good RPG or third-person 
 shooter should own this as well. For those wary of purchasing a port, Bioware has done an extremely 
 good job of porting the game and there are very few instances where you say "hmmm this feels like 
 it belongs on a console". It is an extremely good value as my first playthrough took 17 hours, 
 my second took 11, and I am currently on my third and have played five hours so far. In addition, 
 owners of the PC version will get access to a free add-on, something console owners have to pay 
 for.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  Graphics: 8
  Audio: 9
  Value: 9
  Tilt: 9
  
  Final Score: 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smartlex
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  
 
  MASS EFFECT - This game is the best RPG game of 2008 year. I think that it is the best game ever. 
 The Developers are really talented people. The game's plot is very strong, the graphics is very 
 cool. When you play this game it's like a watching cool American action film full of special effects. 
 I spent three days playing this game, I even had a dream like I'm a main hero of Mass Effect game 
 and the fate of galaxy was in my hands. :) It's time to have a rest :) Thanks the Developers for 
 this pc game - masterpiece. I have never enjoyed any game like this one. Thanks, thanks, thanks 
 :)
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwater
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Like many off the reviews said, the first couple of hours are amaizing . The main quests are awesome. 
 But the thing that makes you play longer are the side quests... that's where the biggest problem 
 resides and can be resumed in one word: REPETITIVE
  
  The game also has many bugs and I question the leadership and expertise behind the testing team. 
 Or did they simply run out of time? One of the most obvious bug is where I can't even talk to some 
 of my teammates on the ship. How can you miss that?? Also, the over pixaled lighting effect is 
 really anoying. Weapons are too easy to acquire I found plus you never run out of money which makes 
 the games somewhat easy to complete even with the useless "teammates".
  
  The positive:
  
  -superb storyline
  -great graphics overall
  -awesome voice acting
  
  The negative:
 
  
  -becomes extremelly repetitive
  -very poor combat AI
  -Lots of bugs (design, graphical and sound)
  -Very poor quest designs (the side quests on planets 
 are 90% the same)
  -Very low replayability value since the game is too linear and too few character types to experiment
 
  
  Conclusion:
  
  For me, if they would have put more variety into the side quests, it would have made a BIG difference. 
 Bugs can be fixed but not the quest/map design. I'm not even putting a "S" in design either, which 
 tells allot LOL.
  
  Would I recommend to a friend to buy the game? Nope
  
  What's a game worth without a decent variety of quests?
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  Story: Your commander sheapard. a new spectre. save the galaxy
  
  Missions: Fly to diffrent planets and get leads to try and find the rouge specter
  
  Controls: 
 FPS Controls in a RPG. They Work
  
  Features: Lots of weapons, Beautfiul enviroments, amazing voice acting
  
  AI: Seems pretty smart 
 teammates know how to fight and enemys know how to fight back. It seems they know what your going 
 to do before you do.
  
  Graphics: Amazing. They seem pretty grainy at times though. Everything is very detailed
  
  
 Audio: Good. The voice acting and ambiet noises are superb
  
  Multiplayer: None
  
  Requirements: A pretty good PC, Time to play the long story
  
  The Good: Everything
  
  The 
 Bad: Grainy graphics at times
  
  The Ugly: Alien strippers
  
  Replay Ability: High
  
  The Bottom Line: A great RPG from bioware that is a must play for any scifi fans or who are 
 looking for a RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snakeskin79
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 11, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  Well what can you say Mass Effect is a good game with massive effect like the name states and just 
 in EA style. Still some things things could have been made better but totaly worth the time playing. 
 Character faces look really good and the movement too. none of the flat playstation look here. 
 The story is also good with some side missions but i would have liked to see some more options. 
 You can't choose any other races then human to play. Game diffculties seem to make little difference 
 on actual gameplay. Classes you choose aren't that impressive either with basicly the same abilities 
 and if you choose bionic powers you end up using guns most of the time anyway couse of the long 
 cooldowns. Driving the rover is also fun with the bumpy stearing but thats also makes it hard at 
 the same time. Very few saving spots and slow elevator rides makes it bad too. Hope they use this 
 and build more on it couse it's still good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eclarkdog
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 12, 2008 11:08 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I guess I'll probably get a lot of flak for writing a less than stellar review for such a 
 well received game. I just don' t understand they hype about this game. There's no question there 
 is much to like about the game, but there is also quite a few negative things to point out. 
  
  Overall, I have to say that I enjoyed the game to a degree. It was nice to play a game inspired 
 by and similar to KOTOR. The graphics and sound were very nice. The baseline story was indeed intriguing. 
 However, the game was far too short for my liking. This seems to be a trend in recent games - improved 
 graphics and shorter games. Besides the short game, the side quests were extremely redundant - 
 with repetitive themes and layouts. Honestly, I just got plain bored with them very quickly and 
 wound up skipping a few toward the end - I just wanted to get to the end game at that point. I've 
 read recently that the developers are very aware of this shortcoming and plan to remedy this in 
 the sequel. Therefore, I don't feel bad at all pointing that out. As far as these sidequests, they 
 were very shallow in terms of how they linked to the secondary characters on Shepard's team or 
 to the overall story itself. 
  
  Another aspect of the game that fell short to me was the combat. The weapons were cool and at a 
 basic level the style of fighting was neat and effective. The weapons made great sounds and there 
 was some tactical aspects to the way you could use your team. However, I felt this was not realized 
 to its fullest. I found it difficult sometimes to effectively give commands to the team with them 
 often not responding how I need them to. Given how easy the combat was overall and the limited 
 number of enemies, I sort of gave up on the giving commands and just dealt with the enemies myself. 
 There were just a few times I leveraged the team members. And to expand on my point about combat, 
 it was indeed very easy and repetitive. Other than a few so-called boss fights (a questionable 
 term in this game) the combat was not that well thought out and developed, especially given how 
 much potential it had. The settings were often setup for some very tactical firefights, but just 
 weren't fully realized at all. There was just so much potential here.
  
  As for the NPCs, the interaction with them was skin deep at best. The romance aspects were not 
 well developed and the females not all that intriguing. There were a couple of decisions points, 
 but overall I didn't find this to be too interesting, although it closes out okay with one of the 
 females. As for the other characters, you just get some dialogue to find some quest that really 
 isn't much of a quest at all.
  
  A lesser point to make is related to the linear style of gameplay and story. I'm generally one 
 that likes a more linear style to my role-playing. While this worked in KOTOR, I felt that they 
 need to rethink this a bit for this game. One aspect of the game is the linear movement of the 
 characters. You can't jump or anything and it just a very boxed in feeling. This seemed to work 
 okay for KOTOR and that game just had a lot more variety. I think it limits this game.
  
  Don't get me wrong though, as there is a lot to like about this game. I know it seems like I'm 
 panning the game with this review. However, I just want to point out some aspects that could be 
 improved greatly. My score is decent, but I just don't understand why the game is so highly rated. 
 It seems that the rating is solely on the graphics, baseline story and a few innovations - and 
 maybe because it's a progression from KOTOR. I just think we should expect a little more from games 
 of high production value. I think the sequel will make up for some of these shortcoming and I look 
 forward to playing it and whatever downloadable content that comes our way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cleteberry
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 10, 2008 4:12 am PT
Review:  Quick Review
  
  If theres one thing i cant stand its when devs rip off the games they love to create a new game, 
 and yet fail to even match what the originals had to offer. They do so, because they know all too 
 well they are getting old, just like the games they loved. No teenager is going to go boot up star 
 control 2, instead they are going to buy mass effect and say "omg this game is 1337". No, mass 
 effect isnt star control 2, but it takes elements from it and many other games that came before 
 it. What i am saying here is, if you've been playing video games for the past 2 decades like myself, 
 or even one for that matter, you're going to be bored with this after you complete the main story.
 
  
  For those old timers like myself (admit it, if your 25+ and still playing games, as far as the 
 gaming community is concerned you're an old timer) this game looks extremely promising on the surface. 
 But once you take a step back, and realize the main story ends in 15 hours of play, a dark cloud 
 appears over the horizon. You realize that the dream has ended and all thats left to do is the 
 same old mundane crap every other video game has offered you in the 10 years.
  
  So for 15 hours this game is truly epic. Then you realize that 50 bucks generally gets you at least 
 40 hours of main story in most other RPGs. This makes you sad, and you cry inside. Your only refuge 
 is to rate this game a 6/10. 
  
  You sit there as it toys with you, in a daze you wait for it to escalate to the level of greatness 
 you desire. Then, before you know it, it leaves you with mediocrity. Like making out with a beautiful 
 woman, just to have her say she has to go just as you feel your dreams of having her all to yourself 
 for the night seem to be coming true. Alas, you're forced to spend some alone time in the bathroom 
 followed by a cold shower. Or, in my case, playing some star control 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven_Lord
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 22, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  First of all, Mass Effect is something that I would not call an RPG. It's a squad based FPS with 
 character stats and a strong storyline. Let me clarify this: by my definition a 'conventional' 
 RPG is a game where the stats of your character compared to those of your opponent determine your 
 combat effectiveness. No 'direct action' skill is involved: you acquire your target and your attack 
 rolls combined with the target's saving rolls determine the success of your attack.
  
  BioWare seem to have decided to forgo that approach, and opted for a solution that makes the game 
 look more like an FPS shooter. True, you have stats, but in the end, if your aim is poor you won't 
 hit the pool you are standing in even if you max out your accuracy stats. Accuracy in ME works 
 differently: if it is low you can't hold your rifle steady which is the first point where the game 
 will draw sneers from people who fail to understand how Shepard became an elite trooper with such 
 a bad aim. Another example is Decryption and Electronics. If you invested enough points into these 
 stats, you can try to unlock difficult locks. That said, even if you have the right stats, the 
 lock will not open automatically - you still need to 'win' a mini-game. To be honest, this was 
 one of the few features of the game that I found quite a bit annoying, as you need to spend valuable 
 omni-gel if you fail to open the lock at your first attempt. Yup. No retries.
  
  The storyline is a mix of known themes and variations from other well-known sci-fi universes. (e. g. 
 be prepared to encounter the local version of the Borg from Star Trek) . However, in the end, this 
 mix is very entertaining, and BioWare managed to add quite a few good twists and turns to the game 
 to make it look unique. 
  
  The game world is quite detailed and immersive, your Codex will get updated as you progress through 
 the game and discover more and more information about various species, technologies and so on. 
 You'll get to explore a lot of star systems and planets (you can delay doing the main plot, and 
 do mini-missions called 'Assignments' to gain levels, better equipment, and to develop your team 
 members) . Plot locales look awesome, however, the extra planets where the side-quests (the so called 
 Uncharted Worlds mission) take place are not so well implemented: mostly you'll drive around in 
 your armed combat vehicle and hunt for medals, minerals, and sometimes you'll stumble upon some 
 action in the form of a base occupied by pirates, aliens or whatnot and filled with crates, crates 
 and even more crates.) . EDIT: BioWare acknowledged already that the side-quests were rather bland, 
 and promised a complete makeover in ME2.
  
  The squad based part of the game is not so well implemented as it could have been. This is where 
 you'll miss the target selector cursor - it is very cumbersome to assign targets to your team members. 
 E. g. it takes some time to figure out how to order your squad not to follow you. EDIT: Also you 
 can be happy that there is no friendly damage, because very often they try to shoot you in the 
 back.
  
  However, once you get over/get used to the small annoyances, you'll start to enjoy the game - good 
 voice acting (not always, but overall it is good) , good graphics (mind you, I did not play Crysis 
 and any of the 'bleeding edge' game stuff, and my comp has two-year old stuff like Radeon X1900 
 XTX so I find the graphics awesome, but I recognize I'm not quite up-to-date in that department) .
 
  
  Technically, the game suffers from a few bugs and technical glitches (some of them are due to the 
 super-intrusive activation system: honestly, I can't believe that people who think they are intelligent 
 beings swallow happily the sugar-coated cyanide pill - sugar coated, because you don't have to 
 keep the disc in your drive, but cyanide pill, because you get 3 Activations, of which one will 
 burn whenever you reinstall your OS or replace a major component in your comp - and EA does not 
 seem to be willing to disclose what components will trigger the loss of the activation) , but overall, 
 if you enjoyed playing the KoTOR series, you will certainly enjoy this title too. Btw, a few people 
 argue about the replay-value of the game, however, the story has quite a few missions that can 
 be completed in different ways, or offer a different ending depending on your choices so it's quite 
 certain that you'll miss out stuff during your first play-through.
  
  EDIT: After my 4th playthrough I feel I must add a few words to my review about the story:
  While 
 it is true that some clichs found their way into this game (no game or movie is completely immune 
 to the great intrusion of clichs) , at certain points in the game the story and the music creates 
 the same feeling that I felt the last time when I watched the closing ceremony at the end of Star 
 Wars Episode I. This is a GREAT game - despite all the seemingly negative stuff that I wrote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bemushroomed
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 10, 2008 3:22 am PT
Review:  I dont know what the reviewers for this game has been smoking but i'd sure love to test it, or 
 maybe not. Sorry, that was a really generic remark, almost as generic as the story and level design 
 in this game. Nothing here that you haven't seen in a bland sci-fi serie or game, all the clichs 
 are there. The same goes for the characters and alien designs (they're not awful by any means though) .
 
  
  In fact I don't mind a generic story or characters THAT much, i can absolutely live with it as 
 long as other elements are fun. The problem with Mass Effect is that the gameplay isn't really 
 that good either. 
  
  Your team members serves little purpose in combat since their AI is one of the worst ever in a 
 squad based game. They can be attacked from behind and just stand there until they die, they cant 
 go through doors if they get behind you a bit, doors only reacts to the main character Shepard, 
 that's some really sloppy work.. I much prefer the way the squad and combat was handled in KOTOR 
 (a much better game in similar style) where you could switch and play another team member. The 
 combat was also more fun in KOTOR, especially if you like mele combat, which i do. This games tries 
 to be a shooter as well as an RPG, unfortunately this fails miserably, none of it is particularly 
 good. 
  
  When it comes to level design this game has some of the most generic designs since KOTOR, in fact 
 even KOTOR had more inspiring level design most of the time. The levels basically consists of empty 
 corridors and rooms with a few crates. Oops, did i say few? This games has more crates than any 
 other game on the market, if you love crates, more crates, crates stacked on top of each other 
 then you'll love it. There's very little detail, and the levels looks like they've been put together 
 in a heartbeat. 
  
  Like all Bioware game this game doesnt have NPC schedules (Non Player Characters going on about 
 their daily or nighly business, living their "virtutal life") or day/night cycles like we've wanted 
 as standard in RPG games since the now 15 year old Ultima 7. While most recent games has this Bioware 
 didn't implement it and the world feels as dead as ever. It never immersed me like Gothic 1-2, 
 Witcher or the TES series. On top of this Mass Effect has a very "fragmented" , there is no flow 
 in the gameplay. You constantly get interrupted by either elevator rides, cut scenes or something 
 else.. The elevator rides are, i'm sure, a left over from the console version where it hides the 
 loading. The levels are so tiny that on a fast PC they should load within 2 secs (which im sure 
 they do, the problem is that the elevator ride lasts for like 20 secs..)
  
  The quests are just as generic as the rest, turn on the Core Reactor, the usual Fed-Ex quests.. 
 Bored me to death.
  
  I think 2/10 is an honest score for this game, the graphics do look nice, the aliens looks almost 
 organic at times, which is a great achievment, the voice acting is better than most games. Unfortunately 
 this doesn't make up for the rest of the game. 
  
  One of the most overrated games since Doom3, I'm very disappointed. I'm a little surprised that 
 they can get away with scores in the 8-9 range, but it's Bioware and i guess that's enough for 
 fans and people who believe the hype. Just like ID can get away with anything even if the game 
 is utter garbage and done a million times better before.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharkie800627
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 1:01 am PT
Review:  Bioware went all out with Mass Effect. The story line is incredible. It doesn't even feel like 
 you are controlling the character, YOU ARE THE CHARACTER! Intense action and realistic weapons 
 make this gaming experience real. The weapons and character menus will take some time getting use 
 to for the inexperienced player. Even the AI shows personality using adult dialog and 21st century 
 humour. The graphics and visual effects, opens up a new interpretation towards graphic reviews. 
 The world detail and planet lighting changes the mood and when visiting a dark planet it doesn't 
 necessarily mean that danger is near even though the music sets a mysterious mood. Music and sound 
 make this gaming experience feel even more real. Voice editing and lip movement can show the gaming 
 industry how it should be done. In certain areas of the game where ultra high detail is displayed 
 the frame rate drops even with a monster PC cause a bit of an irritation, but the rest of the game 
 makes up for it. Mass effect will truly be a RPG masterpiece for 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dspent
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 9, 2008 10:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is by far the most boring game I have ever played and I have played ALOT of games in 
 my time. Once you get past the cool visuals and graphics, you're left with a boring FPS wanna be 
 wrapped in a veil of supposed RPG gaming. My biggest problem with this GAME is that it's a game 
 and I know its a game.
  
  To explain what I mean is... A good video game does a few things. One - it must have a captivating 
 story. It must have great visuals. It must have good sound/music and effects. But above all those 
 you must always feel that you, the player, are a part of the story, a part of the visuals, a part 
 of the atmosphere. In other words, if it feels like a game, then it sucks no matter how great it 
 looks or sounds.
  
  For me Mass Effect loses its 'effect' because at no point do I feel like it's real. In a combat 
 situation, I have to press and hold the spacebar, stopping the action so I can run through a menu 
 system and tell two stupid teammates to duck the guy shooting at them and return fire. In non combat 
 situations I am running around vast areas talking to people who give me so much worthless information 
 that I feel like I'm reading a book.
  
  So to sum it up again, this game is just boring. Maybe others don't see it, but to me a game should 
 be engaging, interesting and bring you in to the story and capture your attention. Mass Effect 
 does none of this and no matter how pretty it looks, it's a piece of garbage to me. In the trash 
 bin it goes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  The game has both some ups and downs in my book.
  
  The first quarter of it is really interesting and neat. Looks and feels just like KOTOR. Everything 
 that happens is fun and pretty unpredictable. The gameplay, the dialogs, the music, the cutscenes 
 are all top of the line. The graphics are pretty nice too, dont really demand that much on your 
 computer but are very pretty to look at nevertheless. Eden Prime and the Citadel are also incredibly 
 well built environments.
  
  The bad aspects of the game show up when you get your own ship. The game really becomes lame and 
 repetitive, that is if you want to do the side quests... I won't spoil anything but ill say that 
 the planets are neat but REALLY lack some vegetation, water, etc. They all look the same except 
 some have snow, lava, or are just rocky. What happened to the first planet like Eden Prime where 
 there were trees and water and other things to fill it up? Ok that most planets out there are deserted 
 but DAMN these are exact copies of one another!
  
  But in brief:
  
  Pros:
  -Awesome acting and cutscenes
  -Great gameplay
  -Some locations are incredible
  -Main quests 
 make for a great game
  -Great story
  
  Cons:
  -Planets that involve side quests look and feel practically the same
  -Weapons are also repetitive 
 in look and feel, they only change in accuracy / power
  -Way too many weapons found on the ground that are not worth much but you have to pick them up
 
  
  So all in all a good game, just dont get too caught up with the sidequests, you'll shoot your brains 
 out from the tedious, repetitive work.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sot7thD
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 9, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  My opinions so no flaming me! Also yes I did buy the game so don't start going "you had problems 
 after the citadel cause you couldn't enter the galaxy map" because I mean the quality of the game 
 goes down after that point.
  
  
  
  
  So I just completed Mass Effect and while I played it for a few hours at the start and was having 
 a blast, didn't wanna stop playing and all of a sudden I just became really bored of the game and 
 from then on it became one of those game son the pile you are meaning to complete but never get 
 the motivation to do so....
  
  Now I've played Bioware games in the past and the one thing they can never get right is the combat 
 system, while it's better in this game than their previous efforts it still feels abit stiff and 
 annoying and the hitboxes don't feel right. It feels like they wanted to make a hybrid between 
 RPG and shooter and it never works because instead of having one real good combat system you have 
 two subpar ones. Also I will complain about the AI being totally stupid and annoying like I still 
 havn't understood why you have team mates because all they do is die or get stuck or get in you 
 way and it's like GRRRRRR just **** OFF!
  
  Also you just notice a slow decline in quality of the game and it feels like they started making 
 the game from start to finish and then just running out of time nearer the end and rushed it. I 
 was loving the storyline and the cutscenes at the start and while they have their moments on the 
 whole after the Citadel they just arn't very interesting and really short. I wanted more story 
 telling int he cutscenes myself and really enjoy watching them towards the end.
  
  You have all these options on what to say too and alot of the time they can be unclear cause they 
 give you a option and you think he'll say whats wrote on the screen but he'll say something different 
 that actually comes out ALOT meaner than how it comes off when you read the options. Say for example 
 you choose a option saying "I'm not very please with your actions" and he'll come out saying in 
 a angry raised voice "I HATE U NOW U SHALL DIE" or something like that and i'm thniking hang on 
 this isn't what I wanted him to say.
  
  Why I say the gameplay is repetitive is because you go to 3 or 4 planets in search of leads for 
 Saren and on each planet it's the same old **** but with a different race like just wipe out everything 
 you see and you're done. The most annoying thing about the games is the driving parts and the vehicle 
 controls like complete CRAP I mean it's sluggish at turning, feels like using a brick on ice. Also 
 if you try shoot someone on a hill often the bullets or missles wont go in the direction of the 
 crossair and just weird stuff like that. It's similar to when you're on foot and say there a hill 
 between you and the enemies they'll try shoot you through the ground like they have wallhack instead 
 of run over to hill towards you. Everyone also feels like they have aimbot because of how they 
 can see you even though you're 5 miles away and in a bush and they have dead on accuracy lol.
 
  
  During this part of the game the story and missions just arn't any fun and become repetitive and 
 boring, while this would make a fantastic mmorpg I don't think it works well as a single player 
 game. The once you do the last one and you have to make a choice to save it suddenly picks up agian 
 but just never comes close to the standard of the first few hours of the game which is a shame. 
 Theres also no real replay value because decisions you make which actually have a real impact on 
 the story are few and far between and you don't really want to sit though all the convos again 
 as you can't skip most of the important ones. Obviously there is no multiplayer to the game so you 
 wont keep playing it for that.
  
  The graphics of the game are really good but theres 2 problems with come with the Unreal engine 
 3 and that's bad dynamic character shadows and no built in AA. Infact I think most of the problems 
 with Mass Effect come as a result of the engine because I saw the poor AI trying to shoot through 
 hills in Gears of War too. The sound is probably the highlight of the game for me though because 
 the voice acting is AMAZING and the music is sooo fitting it feels like a movie. I noticed some 
 greta voice talent in the game too like the woman whose the medic for your ship, can't remember 
 her name but I reconize her and Seth Green who plays Joker, though I think it's him as it sounds 
 dead like him. The framerate and performance is all fantastic too and have no complaints there, 
 not a very powerful machine is needed so that's nice.
  
  
  So I really liked the setting of Mass Effect and I'd love to see it be made into a mmorpg because 
 I think it would really really suit that and the lack of good sci-fi mmorpgs only helps the case 
 to make this game. I do enjoy it as a single player RPG and did have alot of fun playing it but 
 it just doesn't hold up the standard of quality throughout the game and does become boring at times. 
 I do want to give the game a high score but it's nowhere near perfect and think theres LOTS of 
 room for improvement. So really my score goes to the fantastic opening of the game and to the amazing 
 soundwork of the game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dietie-wietie
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  When I first saw Mass Effect, I was disappointed because it was only available on the XBox360 (which 
 I don't have) and it looked pretty good, but luckily it came out on PC.
  
  I was very enthusiastic about this game, except 1 thing: the combat-system.
  It looked kinda 
 difficult to handle and messed up.
  Well now that I have the game, I can tell you all about it.
  
  To begin with, the game has 
 good graphics, not very very good (textures aren't that well done) but certainly decent enough 
 to say waaw.
  The story and storytelling is simply amazing and probably one of the best ever in games. The behaviour 
 of people, their facials,... all looks very realistic.
  The sound is very good either. The dialogues sound very realistic, voices, sound effects, music, 
 etc are well done.
  
  Mass Effect plays very nice, but there is one thing that (still) bothers me, and that's the combat-system.
 
  As said before, when I first saw this game, the combat-system looked kinda difficult and unorganised. 
 And I must say, for me, it really is.
  It's very hard in the beginning to know what is this and what is that, as nothing is being explained. 
 Well, a little is explained, but not enough.
  When you pause the game, you can choose for example your bionic powers or stuff, but it's annoying 
 in the beginning to know what's what and how it exactly works. You do learn it after a while, but 
 still I find it doesn't play smooth enough.
  Another annoying thing is the covering system. This really doesn't work well on PC! You have a 
 chance 1/3 you actually take cover. Most of the time you just run against the wall, while taking 
 damage from like every side. 
  These things should have been done better, as combat is a crucial element in this game.
  
  
 Besides all that, the game is excellent. It's very addictive too.
  The side-quests are fun, but get boring after a while, since it's always the same concept (go there, 
 run around, kill him, go back) .
  
  
  PROS: graphics, sound, story, actors behaviour in cutscenes, concept
  
  CONS: combat-system, 
 covering-system, as mentioned on Gamespot; small graphical issues (especially shadowing)
  
  
  Mass Effect is definitely one of the best RPG's ever made. But their are some issues with this 
 game that makes it (far) from perfect. I sure hope Bioware learns out of their mistakes, because 
 the concept of this game is awesome and it is certainly not something that may go lost 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ercan
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2009 1:50 am PT
Review:  This game is exactly the RPG I want to play. It has the right amount of fighting and exploration. 
 The characters are excellent, the plot is OK but short. 
  
  The thing that bothered me most during the game is the riding on the planet surface and looking 
 for minerals. I lost too much time looking for minerals that are not necessary for the game plot. 
 Most of the planets surfaces are rough and rocky and climbing is very hard. 
  
  The one thing that disappointed me is the licensing but now EA is offering to de-authorize the 
 game. 
  
  http://activate. ea. com/deauthorize/ 
  
  This game is a must have. Although I would appreciate a more investigating type of missions and 
 not just "talk and fight" type where the game takes you automatically where you need to be. 
  But this game is a nice change from the medieval sword and axe type of games that we are seeing 
 constantly. This is Sci-Fi and it's RPG and it's good.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlexSupreme
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2008 3:32 am PT
Review:  First of all, Mass Effect is a combination between KOTOR gameplay and an active, fast paced shooter.
 
  
  Mass Effect tells us about commander Shepard who's eventually like every hero tries to save the 
 world from extermination by the "Reapers", fully operational, ancient AI which doesn't seem to 
 like living beings.
  
  Gameplay: 6/10
  It might just be the only thing that screwed this game up.
  Even though it's an RPG, the variety 
 of choices in the game is very limited, characters that focus on "Biotics" (magic sort of...) or 
 tech support are way weaker and utterly useless compared to the pure combat oriented characters.
 
  
  At the beginning of the game, by choosing class you seal the fate of your character regarding his 
 or her ability in combat.
  From the start you are given a choice between four types of weapons:
  
  guns: average rate 
 of fire, damage and decent accuracy, if you can't efficiently use assault rifles, you are probably 
 stuck with a gun for 90% of the game.
  shotguns: as the name says, 3-5 shots before it overheats, shotguns give a fair spike damage. Overall 
 I found shotguns to be inferior to any other choice of weapon.
  assault rifle: damage damage damage! Oriented mostly for fast close range combat, it would be the 
 best choice for most of the action in game.
  sniper rifle: I personally found it the most fun weapon in game, sniping targets from a far with 
 often pin-point accuracy! Pure delight.
  
  In most cases the gameplay can be described as arrival to the planet, briefing on the situation, 
 combat, result, back to the ship to have a small conversation, repeat.
  
  The combat itself is oriented around fighting small groups while skipping from area to area, the 
 weapon upgrades and the weapons themselves change only in their properties such as accuracy, firepower 
 and heating rate.
  
  Forgive me for saying so, but the combat itself, even though it's addictive, is dull as hell itself.
 
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  Now we're getting to the good part =]
  The model design, details and especially their movements and reactions are flawless! The quality 
 is amazing and it's a real treat for every sci-fi lover.
  The alien species are remarkably pleasant for the eye.
  The game is overwhelmingly well designed! 
 10/10!
  
  One bonus point that I would give to this game is due to the fact that even though it has such 
 amazing graphics and graphic detail, it works very well on the middle range graphic cards.
  I played this game with an 8800GT nVidia card on the highest possible graphics with absolutely 
 no draw-backs and no lags. remarkable.
  
  Sounds: 8.5/10
  Voice acting! yumm!! 
  Not much to say about the sound, one thing that bothered me is the lack of noticeable background 
 music that really makes the walk around the city or sneaking slowly in combat really dull and tasteless.
 
  Overall, the voice acting and the effects are excellent, no reason to complain.
  
  Overall I must admit, it's one of the best games for me that came out this year, it sucks you in 
 for many great long hours.
  I would've given this game an 8.7 due to the very repetitive combat and very limited exploration 
 and weapon advancement but there are only .5 grades, so here you go, a 9 although it doesn't really 
 deserve that.
  I would expect a tiny bit more from a sci-fi RPG.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiredDreemz
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2008 12:22 am PT
Review:  So already that's a big thing in my book! (WARNING: SPOILER) You find out all the backgrounds to 
 characters until they practically become family, and then you choose which one will have to die! 
 On top of that, you might loose two companions on the same level, depending of course on your choices.
 
  
  The game's graphics are powered by the Unreal 3 Engine, so it will pretty much run on most systems 
 and still looking pretty damn good. The only qualm I have is that, aside from the main missions 
 which have varying environments, the side missions look all pretty much the same. For some reason 
 all the planets you visit are hectically mountainous (thank goodness for your ATV) , and they all 
 have practically the exact activities on them. The only major difference being the "terrain". The 
 "warehouses" on some of the worlds all look exactly the same aside from a box or two in different 
 places, and different walll textures. There isn't a mass variety of enemies either!
  
  The sound is top shelf stuff though. The soundtrack is amazing - especially the music playing in 
 the background after the abovementioned part when you loose a colleague or two - and the voice 
 acting is pretty much well done. 
  
  Gameplay is simple and engrossing, especially the HUD when you push SPACEBAR. 
  
  The crux 
 of the review is that it will not be the graphics, sound or gameplay that sucks you in - it will 
 without a doubt be the STORYLINE. The characters are so well thought out that you kinda miss them 
 when you finish the game. You tend to wish they were real so that you could learn more about them, 
 and spend more time with them. The story pulls at the heart strings a bit, and you might even land 
 up feeling sorry for the "bad guy"!
  
  I would like to think Mass Effect as an experiment. It was without a doubt a success, so I expect 
 Mass Effect to be 50X more engrossing and entertaining. Pity though the main storyline is kinda 
 short! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbaturin
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 8, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Well, the PC version was definitely worth the wait. The game is absolutely amazing, with some of 
 the best visuals and storytelling I've ever seen. However, as I realized after 3 hours of playing, 
 there are too many unpatched issues that still need solving before Mass Effect can live up to all 
 of its enormous potential.
  Let's start with graphics. The game engine is beautiful, with very detailed environments, and incredibly 
 realistic characters. They look and move like they're alive, which adds more atmosphere to this 
 already atmospheric game. The greatest thing about it all is the fact that the engine has been 
 brilliantly optimized for the PC, which means the system requirements are surprisingly low. Ran 
 smoothly on maximum settings on my laptop (Core 2 Duo 2.2 Ghz, 2Gb ram, Mobility Radeon HD 2600, 
 Windows XP SP3) . 
  The gameplay is well balanced, the control and combat system is simple, and the combat sequences 
 themselves are dynamic and very enjoyable. This is all backed by excellent acting and storyline, 
 which grows and develops just fast enough for maximum enjoyment. 
  Now, for the cons. Minor sound glitches during at least a dozen dialogs were the first thing that 
 caught my attention. It's nothing serious, but words at the end of sentences do get cut short or 
 completely out every now and then. Minor graphical glitches are also noticeable, but I didn't pay 
 much to attention to them either... Until I had played the game for about 3 hours, up to the point 
 when I received command of the Normandy... 
  "Great, now the real fun starts!" - I though to myself as I walked across the bridge of the ship 
 towards the navigation map. Walked up to it, feeling as confident as ever and thinking about where 
 to head for the next mission. Clicked on the map, and... Hit a graphical dead end :- ( All I saw 
 was a black screen with nothing but the sector name in the top left. All I could do from there 
 was exit the map and try again. And again, and again, and again... Useless. The game became unplayable. 
 I was deeply disappointed and uninstalled it at once.
  In other words, the game's great, but when the minor glitches suddenly become major and make it 
 unplayable, what 's the use? I'll be waiting for a decent patch before I reinstall this back on 
 my PC. Waiting very impatiently... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: panospcm
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2008 2:49 am PT
Review:  Bioware had the kindness to start creating RPG's 10 years now and they do a pretty good job. It's 
 hard to find a good RPG nowadays with all the companies going for console games and not pc ones. 
 So if you hadn't buy it until now, DO IT asap. It's a great story, graphics are trully amazing 
 and dont require a super high-end pc to run. The voice acting is once again TOP NOTCH including 
 the cool alien voices. Its also nice to have a backround for your character, its something unique 
 and really cool because this options reflect how people interact with you in-game.
  This is the Space Opera game to play without denial. Once again BIoware showed the world what they 
 are capable of by creating a great universe with lots of planets, alien races but didnt forget 
 about the role of humanity in all this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue-Sky
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2008 2:27 am PT
Review:  STORY:
  Mass Effect delivers a plot that actually feels like role-playing. It isn't a simple band of heroes 
 save the world theme. The way the story is structured and delivered, the fact that your decisions 
 have a real immediate impact and the options you're given aren't just A-1 and A-2, but actually 
 A and B, give you the sense that you're making your own story. You become the main character, Commander 
 Shepard, you decide where to go, what to say and who to save or kill. You're still following scripted 
 story, but how it unfolds is up to you and doesn't feel nearly as linear as RPGs in the past. The 
 principal mechanic that enables you to really feel engaged in the story and in the interaction 
 between characters is the choice-based dialogue. Every time Shepard speaks, you get to choose the 
 overall tone of the reply by selecting one of the multiples abridged versions of the possible answers. 
 What you select is not exactly what's going to be said but the emotion you want to convey. It's 
 in this mechanic that you notice how great the writing is in Mass Effect. Although the story isn't 
 the most original as a whole, the last two hours are really well crafted and deliver on all aspects. 
 The zones you go through as the game comes to a end are some of the most impressive and memorable 
 environments I've seen these past years. You'll have to make tough decisions and the drama will 
 climb up, but by the time the credits roll you're not only going to want to see what happens next 
 to your character, you're also going to want to start a new game.
  
  COMBAT/GAMEPLAY:
  Mass Effect employs a real-time, squad based, tactical combat system. You have your standard equipment 
 like grenades, a pistol, a shotgun, an assault rifle and a sniper. You will also be able to take 
 cover behind objects 'Gears of War style'. Weapon upgrades or different kind of rounds to for ex. 
 give your weapons more stability. You will also have a variety of biotic powers, which your character 
 will be able to use depending on the class you've chosen in the beginning of the game. The fact 
 that you don't have to "grind" (the game will always adapt to your level) , is a great thing and 
 I really like it, but you come to wonder if the items you equip have any importance. The gear you'll 
 find in the abundance of crates and containers is usually as good, and in most cases even better 
 than what the shops offer which in reaction makes the money you get almost useless. The game will 
 always throw at you better gear for free. All that, added to the many types of ammo you'll get 
 which are probably only useful in the higher difficulty settings, coupled with a unintuitive inventory 
 system make that particular part of the game unpleasant.
  
  REPLAY VALUE:
  Through a fabulously rendered 'Galaxy Map' you are free - whilst not in the middle of primary quest 
 objectives - to explore what looks like a third of the known galaxy. I wasn't much impressed with 
 the uncharted-worlds side quests. Most of the time all you get as a reward, except for the usual 
 exp and money, is just a window with text. Some of the bigger ones, like the character specific 
 ones also reward you with text, a few cut scenes would had been enough to make them good. You're 
 also going to be running in deja vu all the time, every base, bunker, cave or spaceship you'll 
 explore is the same, the crates and containers are laid out differently but the architecture of 
 the zones are identical. You're going to want to start a new game after completion for additional 
 endings and different perspective of the main characters decisions. On my first play through, I 
 imagined myself being the character that I had created so each choice taken was something that 
 reflected my own personality. This helps to keep the conversations interesting on a second play, 
 since you don't just re-hear your answer, the dialogue stays seamless and in context of the scene, 
 you even come to wonder how Shepard is possibly going to react or say while making your choice.
 
  
  BOTTOM LINE: 
  Bioware crafted one of the best RPGs in recent years and a must have for any fan of the genre. 
 Don't be that idividual that misses this classic. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OrsenXtra
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  I am never easily impressed but this game is certainly worth my time, even the menu is stunning 
 and even before the game unfolds your already choosing your own path into the game with character 
 creation and the style your character will fight along the way. 
  
  Appearances are only the start, although you cannot edit the surname for speech reasons you can 
 choose what to say to everyone you encounter which will cause them to react differently depending 
 on your positive or negative responses as your character develops with skill points you can either 
 just slam all the points into combat or you can invest some points into the motivational side of 
 your characters boosting group moral or unlocking extra features, people will either let you in 
 on something secret if your extra nice or you can simply force it out of them with aggressive responses.
 
  
  As far as combat goes I have only been using the third party view which is not a let down really 
 its perfect for whats required within the limits of guiding your party and making them work for 
 you, the commands you can give them will determine your survival sometimes and your ability to 
 get tasks done efficiently, as I mentioned earlier you can customize your weapons to improve accuracy 
 or add extra damage with toxic rounds along with the talent point system making your characters 
 more efficient with pistols or the shotgun for example, your party members do seem stupid at times 
 and wont perform properly without guidance from your menu there is plenty of time to think as you 
 can press and hold the space bar give commands to each party and also gives you a breather from 
 the combat to decide on your next move along with all the other Biotic special abilities this won't 
 appeal to a hardcore shoot em up fan as it removes the tension and thrill of the action at hand.
 
  
  There are plenty of mini quests for you to acquire from the locals from gathering data to collecting 
 data from certain alien species, one for example was a man who's wife had died but they military 
 would not give the body back because she was killed in such a way that they decided testing her 
 would be more efficient, with your influence you can change their decision or tell this person 
 that the testing will save more life's in the long run.
  
  I haven't proceeded through the story that much but from the recent events the story is fantastic 
 and I cannot find a flaw in it at the moment which is always a good sign, I am a fan of twists 
 and there are plenty of them to go around. 
  
  Talent tree is fantastic gives you a sense of freedom but not totally you still have specific things 
 you will need to learn to unlock certain things, I went Vanguard for all out combat specification 
 which specializes in pistols and shotguns although I find the shotgun rubbish simply because my 
 pistol is currently insane and maxed out does amazing damage with toxic upgrade until I find something 
 else it will do me for a long time indeed what I am trying to say is that the lesser skills wont 
 be a complete waste of points everything lasts a long time nothing really gets outdated throughout 
 the game as your weapon upgrades too not just the talent points.
  
  Overall I am pleased with my purchase and would invite any RPG/Shoot em up fan to definitely buy 
 this game, you wont be disappointed with a one way story like most RPG's and Shoot em ups you can 
 interpret everything that happens and decide your own route throughout the game, although there 
 is one ultimate goal you do not always need to follow the same direction you can chill out helping 
 some lesser characters to boost your own characters level and experience.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcole134
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 7, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Having owned both versions of this game I can say with complete certainty that the PC version is 
 the best version to buy.
  Certain members of you out there have been giving this game bad reviews based on what can only 
 be considered stupid reasons. For example the game still has a few glitches or you've brought the 
 game thinking it was some Rainbow Six Vegas. Well yes, it has got a few glitches, what game hasn't 
 and No, it is not and will never be as shallow and un-endearing as the likes of Rainbow Six Vegas. 
 Get a grip. This game is truly astounding. It's a true master piece. This is how a Sci-Fi RPG should 
 be. It's well written, well laid out, plays smoothly and is at times (most of the time in fact) 
 quite beautiful. Now all I have to do is wait for Mass Effect 2 to be released. Come on Bioware, 
 Hurry up and release another master piece for us. Thank-you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dunnowhathuh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  By now, most of you should have seen the pros of Mass Effect so I'll skip all the good bits on 
 story, graphics, sound, mechanics and jump straight into what's BAD about em because I've noticed, 
 not many people seem to have noticed them. I'm not entirely sure how so many people can live with 
 the bugs and mediocre AI in this game. On the allied AI front: 
  
  - Characters get stuck VERY often (thank goodness for miraculous teleporting)
  
  - Sometimes 
 they won't respond to your commands 
  
  - They'll happily stand there shooting whatever's standing between them and their target whether 
 it be a box, other allied AI or YOU without moving to get a better shot
  
  - They don't tend to use cover and when they do, the previous point occurs
  
  - They don't 
 seem to know how to open doors
  
  On the bugs front:
  
  - When the decrypting mini game kicks in, sometimes for some odd reason you'll still have control 
 over Shepard's movements so he/she'll end up moving around when you tap a directional key (which 
 can be a little distracting when you're trying to thread an arrow through moving blocks) . On the 
 odd occasion, you'll have no control over the arrow AT ALL but again, Shepard will still be happily 
 running around. It also doesn't seem to like responding after you've wiggled your mouse at the 
 start of the mini game.
  
  - On the odd occasion, your allied AI's just don't seem to like standing there. It seems to happen 
 after a battle where they've been attacked with a stasis spell.
  - The game says that Shepard with crouch automatically when taking cover behind low objects, in 
 actual fact, he/she only does it 50% of the time.
  
  - When a mission requirement requires you to destroy a piece of technology, don't let the structure 
 get destroyed via a health degenerating condition (incendiary, poison) or you will not be given 
 the mission.
  
  - The mini map flag seems to pop up randomly sometimes and it's not quest driven cuz it's pointing 
 in the wrong place.
  
  Although the graphics are quite something to behold, you can't help but feel that all the minor 
 locations in the game have the same look and feel to them. Almost every planet seems to have the 
 same mountains and craters - just coloured differently and every compound has the same corridors 
 and windows - just with boxes placed in different spots.
  
  The cover system also needs a bit of work. It seems that once Shepard hugs a wall, it's difficult 
 to coerce him/her off it. It's far from something like GoW, R6V2 or Splinter Cell where the cover 
 system just feels right to use.
  
  It's nice to explore sometimes and exploring a lot can pay off in Mass Effect. Sometimes though, 
 you'll find yourself standing there going "so.... where am I supposed to go exactly?". Although 
 the quest log will usually give you a location, the map isn't exactly labelled in great detail 
 forcing you to run around staring at every "directions" sign to see if you're in the right place. 
 Though I guess a few of you more tolerant people could say it adds a sense of realism.
  
  Having said all that though, Mass Effect is nevertheless a truly great experience. The annoyances 
 can be a pain the the ass but hey, what's not fun about being an intergalactic agent whose job 
 is to do whatever the hell they want? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pmor
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 7, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  Right after I thought there would be no better RPG after The Witcher, this one proves me wrong.
 
  
  It is old style RPG, lots of side quests, great story line that can be completely changed depending 
 on your actions and your selection of answers to discussions.
  
  You don't get to fly the ship, but you get to drive a tank in most planetary missions, and keep 
 in mind that not everything is marked on the map, exploration is rewarded in this game. Too bad 
 there's not THAT much exploration, but it's good enough.
  
  The graphics are phenomenal, there's still some grainy graphics issues that I believe is due that 
 it was originally made for a console not PC, but you get used to it and eventually don't see it 
 at all.
  
  Another good thing is the party selection, it's not as easy as picking who's gonna give you the 
 best boost for a mission (using powers to move objects or to crack security areas/containers) , 
 but they all react different to the environment and the situation you're in, for example at one 
 point in the game if you have companion A with you he'll end up shooting a quest npc after you're 
 done talking, but if you hadn't taken that companion, you would let him free and have him reflex 
 on his mistakes.
  
  The only downside I found is that it's too much fun yet it's so short for an RPG even while doing 
 all the side quests and finishing all the Achievements.
  
  Overall it's a great game, well balanced, well made, and well worth the money and time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 11wow11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 9:56 pm PT
Review:  I found the story line incredibility irresistible with an exhilarating never been done before plot 
 the pulls you in and won't let go until the blockbuster styled ending. You get to decide how you 
 rose to fame by choosing from possible back stories. A revolutionizing style of game play that 
 lets you control conversations and decisions the ultimately control the unique outcome. Customized 
 and upgrade your weapons and your unique skills independent to the player you choose. Free to explore 
 a galaxy of different start clusters and planets. You choose whether you follow the story line 
 right away or embark on quest to better the galaxy before you safe it from complete destruction. 
 Fun, challenging, and unique fighting experience the always leaving you wanting to upgrade your 
 weapons, armor, and many others to gain the edge against your ever challenging foe in my favorite 
 game of 2008, mass effect. My only complant would be an never ending story line! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Esios
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 7, 2008 7:17 am PT
Review:  =Sound=From hearing there were different tones that the main character could speak in I was ready 
 for really good voice acting, and it was beyond my expectations. This is probably some of the best 
 voice acting I have heard in a long time. The voice actors really brought life to every character 
 that you come across. From what I had experienced I am sure I did not hear a voice used twice.
 
  
  The background music was perfect. It was low and calm for when you were just traveling, then changed 
 and slightly increased in volume, but not to the point where it could had been annoying or distracting.
 
  
  As a side note; if you have a sub woofer. Be ready for it to be used to its fullest potential. 
 You will know what I am talking about when you open the launcher menu.
  
  =Graphics=
  Words can really describe how this game looks, but let me tell you this. At times it was really 
 hard to tell it was a video game because of its realistic appearance. As a side note there is an 
 option to have "Film Grain". Basically what it is a picture with a bit of sand thrown onto it. 
 That is basically what you were looking at. The Film Grain just made it look ugly to be, but that 
 is just my opinion. On a side note there is something very weird with the shadows on the face. 
 It starts out nice, but when you get to the end of the shadow. It looks really odd.
  
  =Controls=
  Just like any other 1st or 3rd shooter you ever played. You aim with the mouse and 
 use the asdw to move, heal with the f, and draw your weapon with the q button. I do not think they 
 could had really messed up the controls. Other then the obvious controls is used to control your 
 squad, which I liked a lot.
  
  =Game play=
  First off to say is that I am not a big fan of a 3rd or 1st person shooters and add tactics into 
 the mix. Would make me avoid the game completely, but how BioWare laid everything out it made it 
 very easy for someone who does not like that genre very much. The way you control your squad is 
 that when you hold done the space bar you see the skills, gun, and the control you have over your 
 squad. What I really liked about this is that you can choose to be tactical and move everyone around, 
 and then take cover to pick off your enemy one by one, or be the way I did it and go in guns a 
 blazing, and shooting anything that moved. There are consequences of being either the stradigist 
 or the crazy man, but I will let you play the game to find out what happens. 
  
  The RPG element is something I think any RPG fan would like. They have it set up where you can 
 have control of what skills you can increase or just have the game deiced for you. Take that and 
 add a verity of ways to approach someone. Either trying to approach a situation calmly or angrily 
 telling the person you talk to off. You will see it their facial expressions change. This also 
 can change the outcome of the situation that you responded to, so that gives that game A LOT of 
 replay-ability. Also there are some choices that you are going to have to sit back and actually 
 think about because the outcome will change the story completely, which is something I never experienced 
 as a RPGer. 
  
  There are also other things that give besides have different conversations. There are also 6 different 
 classes that uses Combat (guns) , Biotic (uses the mind to hurt your enemies, heal your allies, 
 or protect yourself) , and Tech (bombs and hacking) , you can either choose to be pure Combat, Biotic, 
 or Tech, or half of one and half and of another. There is also a "good" and "bad" bar. I won't 
 go into much detail into it, but when I say good think of saying on the right side of the law, 
 and when I say bad think of being more of a vigilante. 
  
  To summarize I had a lot of fun playing this game. For my first time through I took about 27 hours 
 to beat, but I did not finish all the side missions (I really wanted to know what happened in the 
 end) . I have to say through the whole 27 an hour that I played not once was a bored with the game. 
 There were glitches in this game and the random loading screens that did hinder the game play a 
 bit. For example, I was up against the final boss and I went to my inventory screen to switch ammo. 
 When I got out of it my squad was in view shooting the boss, but not getting hurt nor was he getting 
 hurt, and I was huddled in the lower right hand corner doing... something. That was just one of 
 the glitches that had happened to me. I grew up in the Playstation era so the loading screens were 
 bad, but that was then and I just thought we would be completely over the loading screen by now, 
 but besides that they were short and you will probably be waiting around 10-20 seconds at times. 
 Other than those flaws this game is the essence of fun and should be played on your PC if you can 
 or on an Xbox360. 
  
  CAUTION: This may be just with me because I am too lazy to check, but it when you are in full screen 
 mode and let's say you accidentally hit the windows key and it minimizes. It happens from time 
 to time. Basically what happens is that Mass Effect eats up the Processor and you have to pretty 
 much force quit. I was at 90%-100% when I checked in the task manager, and I got an Intel 2 duo 
 3.0 GHz. The weird thing is that the game plays
  smoothly, but when it minimizes it becomes really stubborn and I have to force quit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesehead456
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  I'm not much of an RPG player. I have Oblivion, The Witcher, All the Guild Wars stuff, and Overlord 
 but none of these game have wanted to keep me playing. I have never set up and played for 5 hours 
 on a RPG before but I did yesterday when I got this game.
  
  I have talked to and have read other player reviews about all of the technical problems they have 
 and also how loading times are long and such. The only problem I have seen so far is some very 
 minor graphical issues that last for a micro second and are easy to miss if your not looking. I 
 recommend that you turn off the gritty film feature that is turned on by default. It makes things 
 look better. My rig is a ASUS M2N-E MOBO with a 2.8GHz Dual Core AMD X2 with 2GB of ram and a nVidia 
 7600GT 256MB Video Card running on Vista Business SP1 (I got vista business for free from Microsoft) . 
 I have had no problems at all since I uploaded Vista from XP Pro SP2 and have been using Vista 
 for 8-9 months now. GO VISTA!!! Anyway the only thing that I don't have turned on is dynamic shadows 
 or whatever it is called. The game looks great, plays great, does NOT CRASH! Loading at first takes 
 about 20sec or less. Then in game there are loading areas like in Half-Life 2 so you will be walking 
 along and then get hit with a loading area but it takes me 5 sec or less and I'm back playing again. 
 Loading areas are a bit more frequent then in Half-Life 2 but I load much faster in Mass Effect 
 then in HL 2. So if you are crashing a lot when you play the game it just may be a software issue. 
 Just update the usual stuff (drivers and such) and hope they patch the game for you soon.
  
  Mass effect kills any and all JRPG's out there and most Western RPG's. This is a must buy for 
 any person out there. Even if you don't like RPG's I'm sure that you will find something you like.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: anacardo
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 6, 2008 2:19 am PT
Review:  This is a very difficult review to write, because this game has all the cards in its deck to be 
 a real masterpiece. The graphic engine is superb, the art direction is good, and the background 
 story can keep you reading for hours and hours. Still, as it happens in a work of art where the 
 picture overall is great but contains a detail out of place, your eyes will keep on focusing on 
 that misplaced piece and no matter what, the overall impression will be ruined.
  There are four main problems in this game: direction, art direction, coherence and level design.
 
  Direction: while the game is visually one of the most impressive games to date, direction (both 
 of the cutscenes and the overall pace of the game) lacks punch and sometimes is simply a bit slow. 
 While comparing ME to GOW or MGS might be inappropriate due to the more fps nature of the latter 
 twos, there are simply too many well directed games out there, and a game like ME, with its vision 
 and scope, should have deserved better.
  Art direction: Art direction is a mixed bag, being incredibly good into conveying some Sid Meadesque 
 kind of science fiction, but failing to express the grandiosity of the latter and lacking variety. 
 Whenever I play ME I think of THX 1138, while I would have loved to see some Blade Runner and Star 
 Wars in it. Everything looks too shiny and too polished, and you somehow get bored quite soon by 
 environments that look very similar to one another. There are of course some exceptions: characters 
 are probably the most realistic and varied in a videogame (maybe except Crysis) and the alien races 
 are convincing and well done. Yet, even with characters, there's always this strange idea of future 
 vision, where everybody (civilians, aliens) wear this tight "uniform like" dresses (sober and without 
 any style or character) and live in clean white plastic boxes that came out of a 1980s office furniture 
 company.
  Level Design: this lack of grandeur (or vision) is even more evident in level design. The Citadel 
 is a convoluted and devoid set which looks pretty small compared to the general idea such place 
 should convey, and compared to urban settings in other games (let alone GTAIV) is simply a let 
 down. For comparison, the interior of the Normandy (your small ship) should be fifty times smaller, 
 and sadly isn't. Speaking of which, your spaceship suffers from some strange scale effect, and 
 somewhat the interior looks and actually is larger and bigger than the exterior. The interior design 
 of the ship is all but functional as well, and you keep asking yourself which kind of engineer 
 drafted such a uncoherent bunch of interior spaces. External environments show again all the problems 
 this game suffers: instead of freeroaming places you'll end up with quite linear levels that lacks 
 variety and seem small and confined.
  At the same time the game lacks coherence and realism. Examples are everywhere: In the game you'll 
 end up in the council room facing the most powerfull political organization in the known world 
 and not only you won't wear a uniform but you'll be fully armed and equipped instead, ready to 
 kill the councilors if you really wanted. The Normandy looks more like a Las Vegas suite than a 
 spaceship, with lots of wasted space, duplicated rooms (why would I need a room for the galactic 
 map and one of the tactical screening?) flimsy bulkheads and basically no engeneering. The problem 
 is that all this quirks translate in bad gameplay as well and you'll end up running along the levels 
 just to talk with a few characters or perform otherwise simple actions. Combat is a bit uninspiring 
 and uniform as well, having finished a lot of close combat missions only using a sniper rifle.
 
  In the end, this is definitely a good game, something that could have been a masterpiece but is 
 let down by some aspects. And while this issues might have been irrelevant in any other game, given 
 the high overall quality of this title they simply stand out and ruin the overall experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vargre666
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 5, 2008 10:49 pm PT
Review:  I didnt really know what to expect when i bought Mass Effect, only that I played a character named 
 Shepard and its some sort of space oddyssy. Ive never been more happy with a game. The people that 
 have **** about the game have sh*te rigs. Ive no problems at all with ANY load time, glitches are 
 non-existent and the game crashed ONCE in about 20 hours of game play. Screen changes are fluid 
 and clean, the story is AMAZING, graphics are beautiful, exploring planets is a thrill. The MAKO 
 is one of the most fun vehicles to drive. Its an IFV that can climb almost completly vertical slopes 
 and bounce down the other side, using jets to slow you down on landing or get over obstacles, but 
 theyre not really needed as the MAKO can grind over just about anything, including enemies. Ive 
 only played an Adept class so far, and its been more than satisfying. This game is totally addicting. 
 The story line is so immersive dont bother playing if you cant put in a good bit of time, because 
 once your in Mass Effect, you wont want to get out. A 9 is too low for this game. This one goes 
 up to 11. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fnorgby
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 5, 2008 10:45 pm PT
Review:  I would rate MEPC 7.9 overall. That's enough in my book to call it a "must-play" for genre fans, 
 while still penalizing it for (in my opinion) near-fatal mistakes in design. You can find lots 
 of reviews that praise MEPCs strengths, but I am writing this review to address specific gripes 
 that I feel Bioware needs to be held accountable for. I'll state up front, though, that I love 
 this game and would give it a 10 if I could.
  
  Like a figure-skater receiving an automatic deduction for a fall, no matter how good her routine 
 is otherwise, MEPC must take automatic demerits for two aspects of the cutscene system: First, 
 yanking the player out of the action to show a cutscene -- in some cases more than once during 
 the same battle. Second, that a large number of long cutscenes are not skippable -- even on second 
 or subsequent playthroughs.
  
  To elaborate: In my opinion it is jarring and immersion-breaking to be yanked out of the action 
 by a cutscene. There needs to be either foreshadowing that it's about to happen, or a clear trigger 
 so that I can initiate the action myself. Also, MEPC makes the near-inexcusable mistake of (in 
 at least two major plot-line battles) having this happen *during* a battle that has already started. 
 
  
  This would be mitigated if it were possible to skip these cutscenes, but it's not. In a particularly 
 tough battle, on high difficulty setting, I found myself frequently having to watch a 30-second 
 cutscene as much as twenty times in a row because (see below) of some annoyingly frustrating elements 
 of the combat engine. Great... 30 seconds of cutscene, die in 5 seconds, lather, rinse, repeat.
 
  
  Another minor complaint about the cutscenes is that they frequently leave you standing out in the 
 middle of an obvious ambush with no cover, and often facing the wrong direction. Even on low difficulty 
 settings, this can set you up for a one-shot-kill with no real way of knowing what killed you. 
 It's immersion-breaking to have this happen at a time when you anticipated the ambush, and entered 
 the area crouched and behind cover. Cutscene happens, you get magically popped to the middle of 
 the zone, facing the wrong way, you get one-shotted, you reload and watch the unskippable cutscenes 
 again.
  
  The second major area of complaint for me has to do with frustrating combat elements. You'd think 
 that a 3D game with a strong engine like U3 would automatically have fun and smooth combat. Despite 
 the engine, MEPC has some irritating problems. Most problematic is that the combat is often "difficult" 
 not for good gameplay reasons but by exploiting the limitations of it being a computer game. For 
 example, there are lots of enemies that (get this...) charge at you in a zig-zag pattern, running 
 *backwards*. This only works because you can't track them with a mouse (or controller, in the case 
 of the console version) as fast as a real soldier could with a real gun. In real life, this would 
 be suicidal. It's my opinion that this is "fake-difficult" -- lazy game designers trying to avoid 
 complaints of a game being too easy without bothering to build in realistic, challenging and fun 
 difficulty.
  
  A good shooter rewards players by making the difficulty of a situation manageable by means of an 
 intelligent approach to a combat zone. The enemy's damage and accuracy can thus be ramped up to 
 make the game challenging, while still allowing you to be successful if you play smart. MEPC sometimes 
 ignores this, and sometimes (often!!!) *punishes* you for it. There's at least one scene where 
 an important event gets triggered *only* if you are facing away from the spot where the mob will 
 spawn once triggered. On the weakest difficulty, this event seems to almost always kill one of 
 the squad members. In the very next corridor is an ambush that you cannot avoid because the ambushers 
 won't appear until you reach the (obvious) spot and again, only if you're facing away from where 
 the ambushers will spawn. The door at the end of the corridor of course won't unlock until after 
 you've been ambushed. This can only be sloppy game design, and we deserve better.
  
  I remember from my days of pen & paper gaming that there were a few great GMs that could keep the 
 tension and challenge at high levels through good design and gameplay management, while still keeping 
 the gameplay difficult. For every one of those, there were a hundred who thought being a good GM 
 meant being "tricksy" and manipulative. A lot of the combat in MEPC has this same feel. It's tolerable, 
 but only because the story and character development are compelling.
  
  There's a very cool combat mechanic for shooting from behind cover -- but it's way too "sticky" 
 -- I ultimately learned that I die less if I completely avoid using it and manage cover myself. 
 A minor nitpick -- I would love to see this resolved because otherwise it's a good addition to 
 the game.
  
  Anyhow, remember "you only hurt the ones you love". If I didn't think that MEPC had the best RPG/storyline 
 elements since System Shock II (the all-time-greatest, IMO) I wouldn't have bothered writing this 
 review. (I also probably wouldn't have finished the game) . I want this crap fixed for MEPC2,, so 
 I'm speaking out. By contrast, I uninstalled The WItcher for simlar problems -- and since I don't 
 care if there ever is a Witcher 2, there's no point in spelling out why I found it frustrating. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giarc1126
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is an intricately developed space drama which proves that single player RPG's still 
 have a place in the world of gaming. Mass Effect deserves a place in any collection alongside The 
 Elder Scrolls and BioWare's Knights of the Old Republic. The game handles like KOTOR, it feels 
 like KOTOR and will even occasionally look like it. That is, if KOTOR was given a graphical overhaul 
 using the Unreal 3 engine, had it's moral intrigue tripled in depth and was injected with a healthy 
 dose of balance. With five difficulty settings and numerous additional settings one can't expect 
 Mass Effect to become that game, which sits on your hard drive waiting to be beaten for lack of 
 interest on account of ease. The game is plagued by a number of glitches, reports of the game's 
 infamous copy protection and horrors induced by attempts to use cracked versions of the EXE. I 
 can say that nothing that has happened in my experience of playing this game, however, has turned 
 me away from it. It is an immersive work of art. 
  
  One of the first things you'll notice about the game is the intricacy of your encounters, right 
 from the start. The radial conversation tool at the bottom of your screen is easy to manipulate 
 and puts you right there in Shepard's shoes. Unlike KOTOR, which basically has a dark-side and 
 light-side flavor to every conversation that resulted in basically the same thing Mass Effect introduces 
 many more elements of judgment. Will you charm your way to the top? Intimidate your foes? Demand 
 responsiveness or allow those you encounter to explain themselves before you blast them away? While 
 the game is still divided into Paragon actions and Renegade actions you are given much freedom 
 in the way you play the game. Other RPG's that have attempted this style of dialogue have always 
 left me feeling vaguely frustrated that my avatar won't say what I want him to. I have rarely encountered 
 that in Mass Effect. Your actions and responses feel like they have weight and not even in a somewhat 
 nerdish roleplaying imitation of "LARP"ing, a casual gamer can pick this game up and get right 
 into the role without feeling silly at all. Finally, all of this is wrapped up in a neat little 
 package of talented voice acting, quality sound effects and splendid lip synch.
  
  Before and after every conversation in Mass Effect we find ourselves in the middle of a galactic 
 war. When diplomacy fails we find ourselves, blaster in hand, shouting out orders and ducking behind 
 a crate. Shepard's navigation of the battlefield, though, isn't as smooth as his tongue. The movement 
 can feel clunky at times and the RPG-influence on every bullet you shoot is sometimes painfully 
 noticeable. This isn't Call of Duty 4. Cover in Mass Effect is practically pointless. Despite the 
 extended view we've come to know from such games as Rainbow Six Vegas you are essentially either 
 safe from fire or being shot at, whether or not you're in cover. You aren't given that sense of 
 security cover has in other games. Turning a corner from cover is no different from standing in 
 the same spot out of it (except that your movement becomes even more awkward) . The cross-hairs, 
 which expand upon continued fire to represent loss of weapon stability, feel utterly RPG-driven 
 and you'll find yourself holding down the trigger and watching your overheat rather than firing 
 in bursts and watching stability. This is partly on account of the lack of a reload function (given 
 the fact that the game is only an action-'RPG' and not a full-fledged FPS) . You don't have that 
 recovery time after a reload. Your weapons' heat dissipates quickly so you can keep up a constant 
 stream of inaccurate fire, inflicting more damage than attempting to fire controlled bursts. This 
 isn't necessarily favorable.
  
  This is not to say that the combat in Mass Effect isn't good fun. The game boasts a pleasant mix 
 between "overshield"-style shielding and a classic FPS health bar. Unreal 3's physics are a lot 
 of fun, given the game's several psychic-throw-type-moves and weapon upgrades that add "force" 
 to your shots, sending enemies flying to the ground. Weapons are kept simple, but to avoid confusion. 
 You essentially have only five weapons in the game (assault rifle, shotgun, pistol, sniper, grenades) , 
 and everything else is just an upgrade or a spell, but each weapon, paired with specific upgrades, 
 becomes a tactical wonderland and you'll find yourself switching upgrades and ammo types constantly 
 to meet the situation. 
  
  Some of the game's interface options are moderately annoying, having to switch to the full-screen 
 map because your compass is woefully lacking detail, for one. Trying to play the game using more 
 than just two of your NPC allies can be a hassle switching gear around, a second. But you won't 
 have to waste too much time meddling with these idiosyncrasies and the developers have made sure 
 you'll spend more time enjoying the game than monkeying with the menus. 
  
  Character development is slightly lacking. It is certainly fun but your character doesn't seem 
 to much develop outside of their defined profession. My soldier won't be much different from your 
 soldier, despite personal preference in weaponry. You may have more points in Shotgun rather than 
 in Assault Rifle, but this isn't enough to make much of a difference. Don't expect to pick a class 
 and develop your character into your ultimate idea of a fighting machine. Most of your skill-ups 
 will be generic increases (2% damage, 4% health, etc.) interspersed with skills (and then upgraded 
 versions of these same skills farther down the tree) . This is counter-acted by the number of classes, 
 however, and the differences between each of these classes (which are significant) . 
  
  Overall, Mass Effect is like a pleasant second coming of Knights of the Old Republic. It's a splendidly 
 complex RPG, and, while hampered by several technical and systematic glitches pulls through to 
 deliver a solid space drama experience. This is definitely a game that everyone should at some 
 point play. Buy it for PC, borrow it from a friend, play it on an X-Box 360, just make sure not 
 to let this one go unplayed.
  
  (This game was reviewed on:
  Windows XP Professional SP2
  nForce 780i
  Intel Core 2 Duo E6850 (3.0GHZ)
  nVidia GeForce 
 9600GT SC (underclocked for stability)
  2GB G. Skill DDR2 800 RAM
  Maxed settings /w Film Grain off. Stutterless.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordrook
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 5, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  I was disappointed with the combat system, the flow of the game, and the seemingly endless bombardment 
 of information at the beginning of the game. The curious thing about the huge amount of info dumped 
 on you at the beginning is that it is almost all storyline - and most of it is extraneous. The 
 game does a wonderful job of developing a new sci-fi universe, but doesn't balance it well with 
 action and gameplay sequences. I also found the gameplay tutorial extremely lacking and the manual 
 not much better. I had to go to the Internet to research how to really play the game.
  
  The combat system is inferior to top notch shooters. It is clunky and overly complex with the addition 
 of both the biotics (spells) and having to control your other two party characters. I found the 
 combat system much like Rainbow 6 Vegas where you can duck and crouch behind objects and peer over 
 them. Your two party characters tagging along is very similar too. The problem is the party character 
 AI in Mass Effect isn't as good as the old Rainbow 6 Vegas. They'll stand around in the open and 
 get killed unless you order them to move. Giving your team orders is more difficult than Rainbow 
 6 Vegas and then you add the biotics (spell casting) for more confusion. I'm not a big fan of games 
 that require your to pause, load up commands for your characters, resume the action, then rinse 
 and repeat. I especially didn't like Mass Effect's style where it is basically a first person shooter 
 combined with the pausing and stacking of commands.
  
  Mass Effect isn't as good as Bioshock, Half-life 2, Oblivion, etc, but it is still ok, just not 
 my cup of tea. I really enjoy a good FPS and a good RPG, but I don't think either style is well 
 executed in Mass Effect. The cut scenes, music, and art is excellent. If you want to be taken into 
 a different world for hours and hours, go for it, but don't expect anything groundbreaking. If 
 you are an avid gamer, you will have seen everything in Mass Effect before, only done better elsewhere. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noclippin
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  Once in a while a game comes along that just sweeps away anything you thought you knew about what 
 makes a good RPG. 
  
  MASS EFFECT is that game, it's incredible, I installed the game, started playing it, completed 
 it - WITHOUT - eating, drinking, anything really, the game completely sucked me. 
  This rarely happens to me.
  The last time i did a 15hour game session without having a single 
 break was when Half-Life 1 came out.
  
  I won't bother telling you anything about the game, since I didn't know anything about it either 
 and in my opinion it improved the entire experience A LOT. 
  The game has some insanely detailed characters which makes the game ever so great, the story is 
 also on the greater side, it kinda reminded me of Star Wars. 
  It makes you feel like a hero who makes his own decisions and that's probably the greatest thing 
 about it.
  
  Now.. When I heard of Mass Effect I wasn't too sure about it, so I downloaded it instead of buying 
 it. But as soon as I had completed it I went to the store, the game is so incredible that I wanted 
 to support Bioware with every penny i have, granted that i want Mass Effect 2 NOW :)
  
  It's the greatest and deepest action/roleplaying game i've played to date. 
  
  #1 Mass Effect
 
  #2 Fable
  #3 Diablo 2
  #4 Baldurs
  #5 Neverwinter
  #6 The Witcher
  
  and the others :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ct1615
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  The good - rich and epic story, interesting companions with plenty of personal stories, a wide 
 array of weapons/armor and side quests, several classes allow the player to choose their play style 
 (combat, buffer, healer, hybrids, etc.,) fun combat system (similar to Star Wars Battlefront) , 
 great graphics with even a modest PC, fluid game play. This game follows Bioware's tradition of 
 classic RPG's such as Jade Empire and Knights of the Old Republic. 
  
  The bad - long elevator rides and side quests are often off the beaten path of the main quest. 
 
  
  The Ugly - The Mako (think of a moon rover) ; its fun to drive around the first chance you get 
 to land on a planet. After your initial experience though, on each new planet you will want to 
 choke your pilot for dropping you so far away from your quest goal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blurrypixel
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 4, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect
  
  Take Star Wars' Universe, Final Fantasy's Hero Settings and mix everything up with an enhanced 
 version of Gears of War, and you end up with a superbly executed game called Mass Effect.
  
  What's to like:
  - Addictive
  - Open-ended
  - Exciting Fights
  - Good Replay Value
 
  - Great Graphics
  - Superb Story 
  - Superb Script
  - Superb Character Models
  - Superb Animations & Lip-sync
  - Perfect Voice-Overs
  
  What you may not like:
  - Jagged 
 Shadows
  - Only 1 City To Explore
  - Short Length for an RPG
  - Not Enough NPC Interactions
  - 3rd Person Combat a la Gears of War
  
  
  Story
  
  
 You play as Shepard, a male or female protagonist that has been summoned to be part of a special 
 mission. Humans are new to the Universe and Space Travel, and so you have been chosen to represent 
 the Human race.
  
  There are many twists and turns in the Story and for most of them, you will have a direct influence 
 on the outcome depending on the choices you make. The whole experience completely feels like a 
 Superb Sci-Fi Action Movie.
  
  
  Game
  
  Mass Effect is all about Role Playing the Main Character (Shepard) through the different scripted 
 events. Those events are triggered by talking to some characters and visiting some of the many 
 Planetary Systems.
  
  The actual story has only a few major missions in addition to the long introduction (Citadel city) . 
 Anything else can be classified as Side Quests. This explains why it can take you as little as 
 15 hours to complete Mass Effect to a more standard 40 hours. So I would advise you to visit every 
 Planetary System to fully experience everything Mass Effect has to offer.
  
  
  Characters
  
  The Beauty of Mass Effect is that every character feels and sounds completely 
 realistic. Their facial expressions, animations and voice-overs are so incredibly well done that 
 it truly makes them believable.
  
  You will meet up to 6 characters that will be willing to join you in your adventures. Though each 
 of them is rather unique and interesting to interact with, you will wish more conversations were 
 possible with them before the end.
  
  
  RPG Paths
  
  You can take the Paragon path (selfless) or the Renegade path (disillusioned) . While the Renegade 
 path may add a few more kills to your record, it is not entirely an Evil path. It's more a path 
 you take when you don't want to be completely politically correct.
  
  
  Exploration
  
  There are many galaxies to explore. Each one with its own set of Planetary Systems. Out of 
 all the planets in a Planetary System, there is typically only 1 planet -- or moon -- that you 
 can land on. Once you've landed on a planet, the actual exploration is done with the Mako.
  
  The Mako is like an all terrain vehicle that has a very powerful weapon arsenal and some pretty 
 good armor. This is great as you never know what you will encounter, whether it is some hostile 
 aliens, enemy turrets or some local dune monster.
  
  The main points of interests are shown on a map. This means that there are other points of interests 
 to find if you start exploring a little. Other than Ore Deposits, Artefacts and other Anomalies, 
 you may find some Stations and Encampments, but unfortunately, no actual cities. Generally, planets 
 are rather deserted, despite the nice scenery that some may provide.
  
  
  Classes
  
  There are 6 classes available. 3 Core classes (Soldier, Tech or Biotic) and 3 others that are a 
 mix of the base classes, for instance: Soldier / Tech. There are 60 levels possible to level up 
 with one class specialization somewhere in the middle.
  
  :Soldier:
  You can train every weapon and have access to all types of Armor and Health upgrades
  
  :Tech:
 
  You can open lockers (like chests) , decrypt computers (for extra quests) and overheat enemy weapons 
 (to keep them from shooting)
  
  :Biotic:
  You can use Mass Effect powers that are pretty much like the Force in StarWars to disable your 
 targets with a push or a lift
  
  There are 4 basic weapons in Mass Effect: the pistol, the assault rifle, the shotgun and the sniper 
 rifle. Not all classes can train in every weapon. But know this: even the Pistol, when trained, 
 is deadly enough to beat the game with. So don't worry about not having access to the other weapons 
 if you choose a non-soldier class.
  
  
  Combat
  
  Combat is done in Third Person View while switching to First Person View when aiming (your head 
 is still showing though) . Combat can be paused, but considering the enemies can usually be taken 
 down within a few seconds, micro-managing each of your teammates (2) is usually not worth the time. 
 
  
  You can also get some cover, by simply 'pushing' on against a wall or an object. This is a great 
 design instead of the unpredictable 'Space key' used in Gears of War. Another great thing about 
 combat is that, if you ever feel like rushing through the enemy, you can try to ambush them with 
 the shotgun yielding in some of the most satisfying action segments that you can experience.
  
  
  Conclusion
  
  Mass Effect is pretty much a Superb Action Movie spread out on 30 hours. 
 It doesn't have the conversation depth or even the length that RPG Kings like Baldur's Gate or 
 Planescape have, but sure provides an incredible experience from its overall ingenious presentation.
 
  
  
  9.1/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rayjohansson
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing.
  
  I did not run into any technical issues in any shape or form. I suspect those who ran into them 
 were attempting to enjoy a modern high end game on a low end rig. Their results should not be surprising. 
 You can't run the Indy 500 in a VW bug.
  
  Now, back to the game...
  
  If you loved Knights of the Old Republic, run out and get this now. ASAP. It's like a KOTOR on 
 steroids.
  
  This is one of the best movies I've seen in a long time -- err, did I say movie? I mean GAME. Yes, 
 that's how immersive it is. There's amazing art direction, complete with editing and cinematography 
 that rivals the best of films. 
  
  The story is great, the action superb. There's something here for everyone. There's tactical combat 
 that feels a little like Rainbow Six mixed up with the use of powers (depending on what class you 
 select) . I've played this game 3 times and it was different every time. The core story was the 
 same, but I think it'd be easy to get 40 hours of gameplay out of this.
  
  I put this game squarely in my top 5 of all time. Mass Effect deserves to hold rank amongst Half 
 Life 2 and a few other more iconic and exceptional PC games.
  
  If you like RPGs, this makes everything that has come out in the past 12 months look silly. It 
 shows what game makers are capable of when they put their creativity and wit to the test.
  
  Mass Effect is calling you. If you own a modern PC gaming system, you have to add this to your 
 collection. It is a very multi-faceted and ambitious project that must have taken countless thousands 
 of man hours to create. You can take on the role of a super hero (or renegade) , attempt to bag 
 a hot chick (or guy) , shoot aliens in the face, upgrade weapons and armor, explore the universe, 
 drive vehicles, punch people in the mouth, and choose to travel down evil or good decision paths 
 that can result to totally different plot twists...
  
  What more could you want? 
  
  If this game doesn't do it for you, check your pulse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: john0479
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 6:52 am PT
Review:  Since I don't have an XBOX 360, when I first heard about Mass Effect being released for the PC 
 I went straight to the store and pre-ordered. I had heard such great things about the game from 
 friends who play console games, and the closest games that were along the same genre as Mass Effect 
 for the PC last year were S. T. A. L. K. E. R. and Bioshock. (Both great games indeed, but S. T. A. L. K. E. R. 
 having quite a few glitches in the gameplay...)
  
  So after being teased with S. T. A. L. K. E. R. on a shooter w/ RPG element, i am overwhelmed to see 
 a game like Mass Effect that does an even better job of blending the two elements together! I would 
 honestly say that in the ten + years that I've been playing PC games, I've never came across a 
 game that has done the job as Mass Effect! You want an RPG element? You've got it! You want story 
 interaction similar to the old school Wing Commander cutscenses, (where you directly influence 
 the manner of dialogue and characters interactions in the story based upon yours) ? it's there. 
 Oh, and speaking of old school, you want a cool APC/tank that looks and plays like the kick ass 
 one from Nintendo's "Master Blaster"?!?!!? Got that here!!! And of course, you want to blow people 
 away with a shotgun, assault rifle, or snipe somebody? No question, you've got it here!
  
  The graphics are amazing on this game as well! VERY NICELY DONE on the part of the guys designing 
 it from platform to PC. I've had a few minor bugs along the way, but nothing I would call a show 
 stopper that has me cussing at the game. 
  
  But what gets me the most from playing the game is the smoothness of the story line with the insane 
 amount of side missions and other little things that you can do along the way! I've always hated 
 how when you play a game, the side missions always seemed like more a pain than a fun benefit, 
 but not so in Mass Effect! The side missions seem to be just another excellent element to the game 
 that complements the main story line very well! Even more so, is that in most RPG's you feel like 
 you need to get the game guide to complete every single element to the game. Not so in Mass Effect, 
 the game never makes you feel like you missed anything, so long as you just take some time to explore 
 the cities and systems in the galaxy.
  
  Just from playing as far as I have I can tell the replay value on this game is VERY noteworthy. 
 There is just no way that you will want to play this game only once and be done with it, since 
 it will obviously play completely different as a renegade rather than a good guy. All of the interactions 
 will be different
  
  I'm only halfway through the game thus far (or so I think) but i would have to say beyond any doubt 
 that I am blown away by this game and it has rightfully earned a place of honor in my PC gaming 
 collection for all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shade1978x
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Stunning. Epic. Mind-blowing. Masterfully executed.
  
  All these things describe Mass Effect for the PC. After working out the kinks on my system (close 
 all unnecessary programs prior to play, people!) , I managed to play through MEPC and what an experience 
 it was. It was simply a game. Hopscotch is a game, baseball is a game, checkers is a game. Mass 
 Effect is an interactive digital experience.
  
  The game has created a universe wherein the player becomes its greatest hero. It's a science fiction 
 mish-mash of Star Wars, Star Trek, Dune, The Matrix and I, Robot, supplying many moments where 
 you're in awe of the massive world that your avatar inhabits. The sense of wonder lasts throughout 
 the campaign and is not lost on you after the game is finished.
  
  The graphics? Superb, top-notch. You can actually mute the game and understand what the characters 
 are saying if you follow along with the subtitles and watch their lips.
  
  The sound? Equally superb and top-notch. The score, sound effects and voice casting are great all 
 around.
  
  The game-play? Tight, reactive, immersive. The gun-play, biotic and tech attacks are all impressive 
 and feel right. The vehicle mechanics are also tight and responsive.
  
  Now, the game is not perfect by any stretch, but it's still a classic, ranking up there with Assassin's 
 Creed, Bioshock, the Half-Life 2 episodes, Call of Duty 4 and Crysis. It's truly an epic experience.
 
  
  I do have a few gripes, though, and they are minor. 
  
  For the size and scale of the fictional universe that is presented, the actual interactivity and 
 activity within the game spaces are limited. 
  
  One of the game's centerpieces is a massive starship which, when standing within it, shows hundreds 
 of square miles of architecture stretching off into the horizon. Unfortunately, where your character 
 can actually go within this massive architecture is very limited. Maybe a little over a dozen locations, 
 most of which are clustered together.
  
  And for a starship that appears to be able to house millions upon millions of inhabitants, the 
 actual foot traffic and denizens are very few. I'd argue that the small villages in Assassin's 
 Creed display far more "people" moving and walking about.
  
  In ME, there's usually only a handful of people walking/standing around. The scale that the game 
 obviously wanted to illustrate wasn't fully executed to the level that, say, a movie like Star 
 Wars would in a similar scene.
  
  And the missions where you travel to different planets isn't as immersive as you'd think. The vast 
 majority of selectable planets appears only as static images with text information slapped on top. 
 Fewer of them can be "surveyed" where you're told that the planet contains different useable minerals 
 and even fewer planets then can actually be landed on.
  
  Once you land on these planets, almost all of them are barren wastelands that consist of very little 
 actual content. You end up traversing long distances where there's nothing to interact with.
  
  I think that, in the end, Mass Effect is a clairvoyant look into what the future of games WILL 
 BE, once computing power allows developers to fully illustrate their imaginations in pixels. The 
 hardware severely limits the potential for games like Mass Effect. ME wants to create an entire 
 universe in which the player can delve into, but current computing power allows only a fraction 
 of that.
  
  One key to the success of the game is, though, that the world presented by the game is an enjoyable 
 one to be in. Few games, even good ones, offer up a world that you WANT to spend hours in. I wanted 
 to LIVE on The Citadel. I wanted to travel the universe in the Normandy. I wanted to spend time 
 with the alien allies and I wanted to kill the game's villains. The game makes you want things 
 and evoking emotion is a powerful skill for any game to have.
  
  I played through Bioshock and, great as it is, I hated the gamespace. The dreary, endlessly depressing 
 halls and chambers. Mass Effect had the opposite effect on me. Rather than a claustrophobic nightmare, 
 Mass Effect offers up open spaces of a dimension and size rarely ever displayed in video games.
 
  
  It's masterfully executed, extremely fun and incredibly ambitious. But this game. Play this game. 
 It's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannyatkinson
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  You know when it comes to shooters I would much rather play Halo or Far Cry.
  I was hoping for this to fill my KOTOR needs and I almost 100% of the time use Melee weapons in 
 KOTOR. Now don't get me wrong. Mass Effect is a good game but I disagree with everyone that the 
 shooter aspect adds to the game.
  to me it is like 2 games forced together. A third person shooter and an RPG.
  I like Mass Effect 
 but I do not like this formula very much.
  I miss the Melee weapons bad. Anyway other wise it is not a bad game but I was just expecting more. 
 I have not purchased this yet and am not sure that I will. I have the 360 version and am on the 
 warpath against SecuROM.
  Which means i will be passing on Red Alert 3 as well.
  Wake up EA. DRM only hurts your loyal customers.
  Hackers and thieves could care less what kind 
 of DRM you use.
  They will just crack it anyway. Talk about stupid.
  This is the real reason that PC gaming is having problems.
  It has nothing to do with Consoles.
 
  Peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smiggles116
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  I really hated Mass Effect for the 360. The combat was frusturating, the graphics, while amazing, 
 lagged way too much, and these two elements brough down the game for me more than it should of. 
 To be honest, I was harsh on the 360 version of the game. The rest of the game is absolutly amazing. 
 The story was filled with humanity and wonder, and all the characters, even the minor ones, felt 
 so real that it was a little scary to think about after you stop playing (that is, if you can make 
 yourself stop, which is two clicks short of impossible) . To be honest, I really shouldn't judge 
 the game by it's combat. It is such a minor part of the game that it really should not have any 
 affect on the core experience, but for some reason, I found that it really made (or broke, as with 
 the case of the 360 version) the game.
  
  I think the main difference between the 360 and the PC versions of Mass Effect is simply one thing: 
 performance. The game is a much more enjoyable game on the PC, and should be played by most people. 
 
  
  If your the kind of person that is not bothered by perfomance issues, the 360 version of the game 
 is a good choice, but the PC version wins due to it's better playability.
  
  The only reason you should purchase the 360 version over the PC version is the price. Getting a 
 gaming rig to support this baby won't be cheap. But it sure as hell is worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VanGoghs_Ear
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  I hope Eidos is looking closely at this title and keeping it in mind for the future development 
 of Deus Ex 3. The original Deus Ex still stands as one of my favorite single player games of all 
 time, but I must say that Mass Effect may just dethrone it. If I had to describe Mass Effect, I 
 would say it's the evolution of a game like Deus Ex, a stealth based RPG Shooter, into a Squad 
 based RPG Shooter. I know the tendancy is to compare this to games like KotOR, but in actuallity, 
 it's roots are more firmly grounded with Deus Ex, in my opinon.
  
  What I liked:
  
  The storyline is immersive and deep, The RPG elements push you to invest more time in this game 
 exploring and completing side quests. The actual gameplay itself is a shooter with RPG elements, 
 instead of just a turn based style, sit back and watch combat system. This is what appeals most 
 to me about the game. I also like that you can pause and view the situation and issue commands 
 to your squad. The system of taking cover and using your squad to flank opponents under cover is 
 very cool. It reminds me a bit of Brother In Arms, only it is not as essential to this game as 
 you can run and gun to some extent, depending on the specialization you choose for your character.
 
  
  The bad:
  
  While there is a lot to explore, many of the environments are recycled time and time again (interior 
 complexes) , and none of the side quests are particularly interesting or do anything to develop 
 the story further. They are not terrible, they are just not great.
  
  Squad AI could have been improved and less sensitive, sometimes if you quickly place them in a 
 slightly blocked area, they will not even attempt to make it to the most logical placement based 
 on your orders.
  
  Some graphical bugs as stated in the gamespot review, and a few loading stalls that occure along 
 the way.
  
  Overall:
  
  Great game, could have been longer, but what is there is amazing, and the bottom line is if you 
 are a diehard fan of the original Deus Ex like I am and have felt cold and alone waiting years 
 for a game to finally come out that finally picks up where it left off, then wait no longer, Mass 
 Effect is what you've been waiting for... this is the REAL invisible war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpaceCowboy892
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Wow, all I can say is wow.
  
  I have spent 15+ and my entire weekend playing this game. At first I was very skeptical of buying 
 another Xbox360 port (Lost Planet, anyone??) . Let me just tell you, THIS GAME IN NO WAY SEEMS LIKE 
 A PORT! I was sooo amazed by this game, you could never tell that this was first a game for the 
 Xbox. Just so you all know, I never played this game on the Xbox, so this review is about the game/PC 
 status. Lets break the game down a little bit:
  
  The controls are great, they may take a little time getting used to but once you do they make so 
 much sense. 
  
  This game has so much replay value. There is so many options in how you talk to characters, and 
 what you get yourself involved in. I could easily play this game a few times, and get something 
 different each time. 
  
  If anyone was worried about the SecuRom on the disc, don't be. I haven't had even the slightest 
 problem with it. The game doesn't require a disc, and lets you have the game installed on up to 
 5 computers. Its very similar to Bioshock.
  
  All in all this game is very immersive, and a fabulous game for any fan of RPG's or shooters with 
 more of a storyline. You owe it to yourself to play this game. SO WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR???
 
  
  Rated 9.5/10 - only .5 because it requires the video card to be capable of shader model 3 which 
 leaves out my brother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mudchaos
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  If you can get past the numerous glitches this is a game with superb storyline, good combat, plenty 
 of weapons, armor and mods to choose from/ upgrade and a pretty good skill tree. Nice RPG. Unlike 
 my recent extreme disappointment from Assassins Creed.
  
  That being said it was a pain in the arse to install, I had to reinstall my audio card and turn 
 off UAC all just to get this game running, not fun! 
  
  I had removed a SB Audigy 2zs card last fall in order to get my front panel HP jack working properly, 
 the game did not like my onboard sound at all and crashed frequently, of course that was after 
 having to reinstall the game several times and eventually turn off UAC entirely (others use this 
 machine so I usually leave it on) just to get the game to start in Vista x64.
  
  680i, E6600, 8800 GTS 640mb, 8Gb kingston 1066 RAM, vista x64 sp1 
  All drivers and bios updated 
 just prior to install. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaDaStar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 2:26 am PT
Review:  I have to admit that I've never really been a fan of RPGs. I mostly play FPS and RTS games. After 
 hearing all the rave reviews of Oblivion I gave that one a shot. I loved it so much that I've always 
 been on the lookout for an RPG that could suck me in to its world in the same way. I guess that 
 I was always looking for something in an 'old world' setting, and had never considered a space 
 or futuristic setting. I followed Mass Effect since it was announced for the PC. I was sure it 
 was going to be at least OK. It certainly couldn't have sucked as much as Two Worlds. 
  
  I'm hooked on the game. It has a world that immediately sucks you into it's culture. The voice 
 acting is excellent, delivered by an experienced cast. The graphics are very good, UT III engine 
 I believe. I've been playing it for a couple of days and have about 5 hours play time, but I can 
 tell that I'll won't be tiring of it, and it will get completed all too soon. Considering that 
 summer has arrived, that's saying alot for this game, as I'd prefer to be outside during the good 
 weather. I can see Mass Effect summoning me to the darkness of my basement for a little break from 
 reality, throughout the next month or so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evo700
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games I've played so far. Even amongst all of the genres I would choose this game 
 over any of the others in a heart beat. 
  
  You get to characterize your own character. The game also has great graphics and amazing environments; 
 natural and futuristic. The ability to travel across the galaxy using mass relays was a good experience. 
 Being able to jump from one habitable galaxy to the next gave you that Star Trek feel. 
  
  The combined real time shooting combined with the strategic uses of your character and your squads 
 special abilities added variety to the combat. The abilities ranged from weapon power ups to psi 
 powers.
  
  The story was great. Humans have just been accepted to the galactic alliance of advanced species. 
 A guy who hates humans and wishes to put them back in their place poses a threat to all sentient 
 life in the galaxy by allying himself with an ancient machine race. You have to trek the galaxy 
 and look for any clues or information that will bring you closer to this threat.
  
  The graphics of the game were amazing. The character models and their armor were very detailed 
 and crisp. The facial expressions and body language was very believable. The environments were 
 very detailed. There were post apocalyptic and lush green environments the were void of life and 
 rich with it, respectively.
  
  Overall, the game kept me hooked in with its action and story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danmckellar
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 13, 2009 5:13 pm PT
Review:  The little I've been able to play is great, but this is a prime example of not releasing a game 
 until it's ready. Getting tired of being used as a beta tester. Makes me wonder what ever happened 
 to delivering a game that isn't full of bugs. Communication on the many issues that I and other 
 customers have had is little at best. Instead everyone is given standard tech support answers such 
 as "update your drivers" instead of giving real solutions to the problem. We haven't even had a 
 word saying they are working on the problem. Not that they are alone in this. Gamers please start 
 demanding better testing before these games are released. From what little I have been able to 
 play, in between the frequent crashes, the gameplay is fun. Voice acting is exceptional. The story 
 is great. However, this just makes things all the more frustrating to those of us unable to play 
 the game.
  
  
  Update.
  
  Now that it works, I will say that it is an excellent, ingrossing game. Just wish they didn't release 
 a beta as the final product. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FirstOfAll
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  Lots of graphical issues. Beyond the graphical bugs, its just disappointing visually. Starting 
 with the character creation even at the highest settings the surfaces are rough and the engine 
 seems to handle light sources very badly. Piss poor pathfinding for squad mates. Controls are ok, 
 considering its a console port, but nothing to pat yourself on the back for. A disappointing performance 
 from the company that brought us KOTOR from XBOX. I still say its not an RPG just because it has 
 experience points. With the combat system basically acting like an FPS, I would have preferred 
 a 1st person view. Oh and if the character stats don't determine whether or not I hit my target, 
 then its not an RPG anymore than Deus Ex (though still a good game) . Story is pretty good so far, 
 but my problems with the game are mostly technical issues not content ones. Its basically The Witcher, 
 set in Sci-fi with dumbed down gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alphidius
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 8:09 am PT
Review:  Gameplay (5/5)
  Awesome! No other words to describe it. It is similar to KOTOR yet not entirely the same. It's 
 like a cross of KOTOR & CS (or any other shooter) only that the core of the game is an RPG. Like 
 KOTOR without silly guys running around with long light tubes (Y ' - ' Y no offense) with more 
 scientific backing on almost everything in the game (not that Starwars isn't but you get my drift) 
 and the controls are excellent. 
  
  Camera works nicely with the mouse rotating the camera and direction of the main character. Right-click 
 zooms in for more aimed shot on enemies (people who like to scope/snipe in CS will love this) and 
 often in times, you'll find yourself cursing and swearing bad words when the AI swams over your 
 three man team. Throughout the game, you'll encounter various scenarios where enemies would overwhelm 
 your team or there are timed events that must be fulfilled (don't want to reveal too much spoiler 
 but the first time you encounter this is quite early in the game) and your character would die 
 countless of times before you figure out how to beat that particular battle. I know I had and cursed 
 and sweared as I tried all angles to beat a few battles before I finally made it and it gives a 
 good sense of satisfaction.
  
  My only gripe on the gameplay is: Inventory! How did Bioware screw this up? The inventory interface 
 is weird the first time you use it but the main rant is that the weapon's stats don't take mods 
 into consideration. So if you have a pistol that has 50 accuracy and does 100 damage, a weapon 
 mod that adds 10% accuracy plus your talent in Pistol handling gives additional 10% damage, the 
 pistol stats remain the same. This is the same deal with armour and other items.
  
  Storyline (4/5)
  Bioware did an execellent job of building up a sci-fi world populated with loads 
 and I mean loads of colourful and interesting aliens/lifeforms. The galaxy is huge and wide and 
 your main character would have traverse many planets, star systems and star clusters. And the backstory 
 ties up nicely to reality. Yes, Earth and Mars are mentioned a few times in the game and the in-game 
 history is really unique, unfolding to you in tiny chapters as you explore and read the in-game 
 descriptions.
  
  Your main character will have many choices in dialogues too, determining the outcome of negotiations 
 and alignment. Yes, your character has a morality gauge much like KOTOR, each choice you make and 
 reply taken will have effect on alignment. As your character gets higher on that gauge, he/she 
 gains more slots for charm/intimidate for more good/bad dialogues and options.
  
  However, as with most RPG games' plot (especially Bioware ones) , the protagonist always gets to 
 play the "Hero to Save the Universe's Backside". It doesn't matter which morality your character 
 is in, the role of saviour would be thrown to you to deal with. And similar, the notion of romance 
 is mostly on Bioware's games too, same here. The only flip side is they look better on this one! 
 :p
  
  Sound (5/5)
  Flawless. Every shot fired and hit gives off a sound. And if you have your bass turned on, it feels 
 like an XBox 360 controller vibration when a pistol is fired. Every dialoge has a voice clipped 
 attached and voice acting is extremely convincing. From comments made by allies/team to the humming 
 sound effects of the ship's engine, the in-game sound will make you believe that you are entirely 
 in another dimension!
  
  Music (5/5)
  Wonderful! Music plays in the background subtly, never distracting you from the sounds in combat, 
 dialogue or when travelling. But you can certainly tell the difference when combat occurs and a 
 more fast paced music plays out. Also, there is the music that plays on board the ship when your 
 character gives a speech the first time, awesome is the only word there. Perfect score from me!
 
  
  Graphics (5/5) 
  Ok, I'll skip graphics cause it cannot get any better than this. It is getting a 5/5 from me. My 
 8800GT runs this game smoothly without any lags. If you are unsure if your card can run this, go 
 to srtest to evaluate your system with this game before buying.
  
  Replayability (3/5)
  So on to replayability. I gave it 3 because after the first run through, each and every quests 
 would be roughly the same. The only replayability lies in the classes that your main character 
 can choose from in the beginning of the game, that and morality. However, since the game gives 
 us all the possible combinations of classes as our teammates (6 team mates that each specialised 
 in different classes/cross-classes) your main character class is only important in the beginning 
 of the game before unlocking the complete team roaster and alignment/morality is pretty much skin 
 deep. However, there are downloaded contents that Bioware churns out (not sure if they are free 
 though) and there is always the hope people can mod this game. At least before Mass Effect 2 is 
 released... 
  
  Overall (4.5/5)
  Awesome game! If KOTOR2 left you disappointed and lonely, pick this game up, I guarantee you, you'd 
 like it! Great graphics, sound, music and gameplay, there are no half-done plot or half-baked ideas 
 here. This game should be what KOTOR2 should have been (without the Starwars elements) and if I 
 need to describe this game, it is like the stars are aligned and the constellations are in perfect 
 order! It is worth the price, get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halipheomos
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2008 1:45 am PT
Review:  I went into this game expecting something like a redux of the Knights of the Old Republic mechanisms. 
 It was right on the money.
  
  SUMMARY: Well-thought story, good voice acting, quick but not chaotic combat, extremely good (to 
 a fault) graphics, and it has Seth Green voicing a character.
  
  We'll start off the storyline. It's very well thought out, with enough pseudo-science to make it 
 believable but still in that realm of science fiction that we've all come to love. The characters 
 have a very distinct personality and the exposition is covered up very well with vocal niches and 
 inflection (particularly Captain Anderson, who's voice actor is one of my favorite real life actors) . 
 The "save the universe" cliche is hidden underneath the game's immersive dialogue trees and intrigue. 
 The characters keep you coming back to talk to them just to learn more about them.
  
  The combat is extremely fun and, like the review said, very streamlined. Though I didn't know about 
 the hotkeys until I read G-Spot's review of the game. It's not turn-based and can be overwhelming 
 in some spots (early in the game) . It's also hard to remember to use cover since, in your mind, 
 it's an RPG, but keep your butt plastered to the wall! The use of grenades and the different assortments 
 of weapons upgrades, biotics, and tech is an extremely nice addition (also an interesting way to 
 include a "magic" mechanic) . Not the mention the omni-tool looks very, very cool (no, really) .
 
  
  The graphics are mind-bogglingly intensive. I've got an 8800 GTX, Athlon X2 6000+ (3.0 Ghz dual 
 core) , and 4 gigs of RAM and it still overheats and crashes my PC if I play for too long. As a 
 sidenote, this game is so good it made me decide to go out build a new rig (it really is that good) . 
 My GPU will reach about 85 C before it starts artifacting and finally crashes. It isn't the games 
 fault, it's just that good in terms of graphics. So if you have a lower-end PC, you might want 
 to wait or get the 360 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2008 10:03 pm PT
Review:  When Mass Effect was announced for the Xbox 360, I was green with jealousy. Bioware has a reputation 
 of making the greatest RPGs and only console gamers got to experience it. But deep down, I knew. 
 It's destiny was on the PC and now that it's here, it's better then the 360 version and in my opinion, 
 THE BEST GAME I HAVE EVER PLAYED. First off, the story. It's simply amazing, I mean, the writers 
 should win Oscars for this. It even rivals Bioshock! The sci-fi setting is not unique but the game 
 deals with every facet of human nature. You'll see racism, you'll see how politics play on a galactic 
 scale, how colonization effects humans, and how each choice effects other people. These writers 
 understand what it means to BE human and it shows through with all the issues they tackle in the 
 story. The main plot deals with you, Commander Shepard (Male or Female, I was Male) trying to stop 
 Saren, a rogue Spectre (analogous to Splinter Cells, only in space) who is trying to unleash a 
 ancient alien threat. Like I said it's all well written and I won't spoil it for you, you'll simply 
 have to buy the game. instead of developing their own engine, Bioware decided to take a shortcut 
 and use the Unreal Engine 3.0 (like most games these days) . This is the BEST use of Unreal 3.0 
 by a third party I've ever seen. Facial expressions during conversations are so lifelike, in fact 
 my mom even mistook the game as a movie! They were that amazing and it adds into the cinematic 
 nature of the game. The environments are also pretty great, each planet has a unique environment 
 and it's amazing that they could pack so many planets with different names in such a short development 
 cycle, and the part of the galaxy you explore is only a fraction! The sound is... beyond words. 
 There is SO MUCH dialogue in this game but the actors deliver such great performances you'll again 
 mistake it as a movie. The music is also great and I'll be getting the soundtrack just to listen 
 to it again; the end credits song was particularly good. There's also A TON of content packed in 
 the game; there's an in-game encyclopedia that features entries on all the alien races, their religion, 
 their military, customs, anything you can think of, along with entries on technology and weapons, 
 PLUS entries on important planets. For the non-important planets, they have entries of their own 
 when you visit them. Before I forget, the conversation system is now completely different. Instead 
 of reading large amounts of text and choosing them, we're presented with a conversation wheel that 
 show the general "tone" of the message and your character takes it from there. This is well thought 
 out, smart move in the evolution of Bioware's RPGs. Some technical issues were encountered such 
 as freezing but due to the quicksave button I did not lost large amounts of progress and it was 
 nothing a restart of the game couldn't fix. I could go on and on about how great this game is, 
 but that would keep you from playing, SO STOP READING AND PLAY THIS GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wrath9110
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  The game's name its self could speak for its self, it is a Mass effect of RPG play blended with 
 FPS movement and battle. Better then the Developers games such as the Star wars RPS. The story 
 line Flows so flawlessly no matter what you do, or what actions you take along the way, Every thing 
 just seems to flow as if it was a True to life adventures. One of the greatest games Of all time. 
 And with the ability to have downloadable content is sure to allow the game to enter new Bounds 
 of Greatness.
  
  The graphics were as amazing as the game, Yet could have buffed a bit with the DX10 stuff, but 
 i guess it is good for the lower ended computers that still lack the power of DX10. But over all 
 Graphics 9 out of 10.
  
  Deficulty was Amazing, Each level Adapted to your play style and made it increasingly harder as 
 the game whent on, Slowly Putting you into more and more difficult situations allowing even the 
 Suckiest of players to get good at the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sabatu
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  I've been playing games for almost two decades now, and Mass Effect is one of the very few that 
 I can already till will sit in my mind as one of the greatest games I've ever played through, right 
 up there with the overall experiences of playing through Deus Ex and Final Fantasy 7 the first 
 time. The world and setting you are thrown into are stellar, and the game winds up immersing you 
 in a vibrant universe that is teeming with life and originality. 
  
  I have played through BioWare's Knights Of The Old Republic a few times, and was hoping to at least 
 walk away with the same level of satisfaction as playing KOTOR. As I started progressing through 
 the game, however, the experience kept piling on more and more content until all expectations I 
 was hoping the game would originally meet were greatly exceeded. The universe is massive and all 
 original; the environments are vast, beautifully rendered, and filled with hidden content to explore. 
 I get the feeling I could play this game five times through and not unlock all the secrets and 
 information this playable universe has to offer. The combat system is very fluid and engaging, 
 and taking the time to mod and procure the right weapons can really pay off in a satisfying way; 
 it definitely satisfied the action/fps loving side of me. The depth of play is also very scalable, 
 through the whole game I got the feeling that I could expand or contract on each mission as much 
 as I wanted to and still enjoy the overall experience. I could stick to the main mission, or hack 
 my way through a pirate base on a deserted planet, board a derelict space cruiser to take down 
 a mad scientist, or drive across the moon (our moon, that is) . There were no limits to what I could 
 do within the realms I was allowed to explore, everything is left in the players hand outside of 
 the main mission.
  
  There were a few graphical and physical glitches I encountered along the way, namely my character 
 occasionally getting trapped on the terrain at a weird angle that caused him to spasm for a few 
 seconds, and team mates occasionally shooting me in the back while trying to hit the enemy (never 
 fatally ;p ) ; but when I think of what the developers were able to accomplish here, it seems the 
 equivalent of complaining about a small dent on the side of a finely tuned $50,000 car.
  
  In summation, I find it really hard to get into the specifics of what made this game so excellent 
 to me without going on for longer than anyone would be willing to read. I can say that it amazed 
 every side of me, the depth of the universe and story immersed my imagination in wonderment and 
 left me with an experience greater than KOTOR simply due to the fact that everything here was original, 
 thought provoking and carried out to a amazing degree of detail; the story was incredible in terms 
 of scope and subject matter; the combat, weapons and armor systems were deeply appealing to the 
 action & RPG stat freak side of me, and the overall experience of the game was a priceless, unforgettable 
 leap forward of what a gaming experience means to me. If you have a machine that can run this and 
 time to spend getting lost in this universe I highly recommend it, no matter what type of genre 
 your into. If you want a great gaming experience, get this game. I decided to give it a 10 because 
 despite its minor graphical and physical hiccups, I can already tell that this will long be in 
 my "top five greatest games ever made" list for a very long time to come, and I am left eagerly 
 awaiting the next installment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgt_Levy
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  While I haven't played this game on the 360, I must say it's head and shoulders above anything 
 I've ever played before, perhaps with the exception of Oblivion. I was first awed by the look and 
 feel of this game: the graphics are amazingly detailed and the textures are incredible (especially 
 on my 9800 GTX) . As I played through the first few missions, I became just as engrossed by the 
 story as the eyecandy. The mixture of the 3rd person action shooter and RPG genres works really 
 well in this game. As the gamespot review says, the load screens are a bit of a nuisance but with 
 a high end PC they're almost non-existent -- maybe 1-2 seconds. Of course, this game reminds me 
 of KOTOR a lot, and that's a good thing because KOTOR was a great game and Mass Effect only improves 
 on what KOTOR did well and more so. Plus you get the expansion pack for free with the PC version -- 
 not too shabby! I highly recommend this game to anyone, especially to those who love a good story. 
 Just make sure that your PC can handle this game -- it requires some horsepower to make the game 
 look spectacular, but it's worth it. Don't just sit there, go buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackey12345
Rating: 9
Date: May 31, 2008 12:42 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect, the hottest game to come out on the 360 finally comes out for the pc, the first question 
 in everyone's minds is that is the game going to be that good? Well the fact is that it is worth 
 buying for anyone out there.
  
  Gameplay wise, its essentially the same as the 360 version, but with a few tweaks for the pc market, 
 such as the obvious mouse and keyboard setup, and hud interface which gives you the power to order 
 your individual troops around. The boys at bioware went into alot of trouble to make the experience 
 on the pc priceless, this meant that the old inventory system of the game had to go, and replaced 
 with a very effective version of the system, with the mouse and keyboard setup, they can make organizing 
 your inventory less difficult, the RPG elements are a good blend with shooting action, the shooting 
 is difficult until you level up, once you get the highest level, your aim will become less difficult, 
 and you won't be as frustrated at taking down enemies, The Mako is still the same, but a little 
 easier to control now, and the shooting itself is done well enough, but can get annoying to hit 
 your foes at a low level.
  
  The combat in the game is done very well, but can be annoying at times, this is evident because 
 your weapons are very inaccurate at first stages, but as every RPG, you have to rise with nothing 
 to something, as your progress through the game, and do side quests, you obtain credits which can 
 go to very good weaponry and armor, the AI are sub-par, but not bad in any which case, they do 
 there job, they take cover, use there powers effectively, and will beat you down if you get to 
 close, but they are like every RPG AI opponent in games today, they will not flank, they just take 
 cover and shoot back at you, they move alot, but at sometimes, it can get quite predictable, but 
 shooting them dead is very satisfying. 
  
  The story of the game is done considerably well, this is the best sci-fi story created in the market, 
 it has a power of sucking you in with this epic space story with characters that make you emotionally 
 attached, characters like the battle scarred gunnery chief Ashely Williams, to the Bad-ass Krogan 
 Wrex, to the renegade cop Garrus, the Voice actors also really bring the characters to life, everyone 
 you talk to has alot to say, and you'll always find the conversation with that character to be 
 meaningful and very interesting.
  
  The Species of Mass Effect are done very well, some creatures look like homages to other Sci-fi 
 games and films, like the turians, who, at times look like Covenant Elites, but every species has 
 a unique perspective on life and possess an interesting culture that you just want to get to know.
 
  
  The Graphics in the game are great on extra high detail, but requires a fair bit of horse power 
 to run smoothly, there are a good number of framerate jitters and show stopping bugs (like the 
 notorious no-save bug, or galactic map not working bug) that can hamper the unlucky ones enjoyment 
 of such a fantastic game.
  
  Over all, Mass Effect for the Pc is a great port of a great game, Bioware did a fantastic job of 
 porting, and made sure that this isn't just a direct 360 port, which makes it special, if you ever 
 have the money and time to play this game, buy and play it and get ready for the best cinematic 
 experience ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: albertofilgueir
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 31, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  The games has a new characteristic and approach of gameplay. The game mixes RPG and action in 3rd 
 person (my 2 favourite genders) . It's a smart move of Bioware that's going to launch the other 
 2 games of the trilogy. But just 1 little problem: if u really dedicate your life to play it, it's 
 not a looong game. Only a few hours and it's done. The story mode is really quick. Than you have 
 to drive with the automobile lots and lots of minutes to arrive somewhere on planets to do a side 
 quest. But overall, the game is amazing: graphics, sounds, story, etc. And congratulations for 
 the customization of characters that gives a singularity to the gamers! This is one thing that 
 i think all games have to have (lol) : custom main characters. A characteristic of RPGs coming to 
 an action-gender game. Thanks Bioware and looking forward to the Mass Effect 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 29, 2008 7:38 am PT
Review:  everyone prolly knows, this is not just your everyday shooter. with a nice blend of rpg elements, 
 mass effect pc really shines. with improved controls over the xbox360 version, it feels like this 
 game is right where it should have been from the start. i have never really been a fan of fps's 
 on consoles, so my opinion is some what bias. so far i really enjoy the game. just had to take 
 a quick break to take care of real life stuff, but ill prolly be sucked into this one for a while. 
 only down side is limited activations so unless i plan on overhauling my pc anytime soon that shouldnt 
 be to big of a problem for me. i hope that e. a. had limited influence on this game other than securom. 
 i recomend this to anyone who is an rpg or shooter fan, great storytelling and wonderful voiceover 
 work. could it get any better? maybe, but im not quite sure how yet 
  i recommand everyone who has a strong & nice PC to buy it !!!!!!!!!
  simply its worth buying 
 !!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nagumo2001
Rating: 10
Date: May 28, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Thus far it looks like Mass Effect for PC is superior in every respect to the 360 version (which 
 I also own, love, and dumped many hours into) . The graphics are better, the framerate is perfect, 
 loads are instant, there is zero texture loading and pop in, mouse control makes the combat more 
 fun, the new tactical HUD makes using your character abilities more enjoyable, and the new general 
 interface for the inventory works better than the 360 version. If you like Mass Effect (or never 
 played the 360 version) and you have a decent gaming rig, there is no reason not to pick the game 
 up. As a side note, I have had no problems with the SecuROM protection, and I like that I can play 
 the game sans DVD. You would be very hard pressed to think of this title as a port given the high 
 level of polish. Anyone who has played a BioWare product in the past knows they make quality games, 
 they just tend to be buggy. This game exhibits none of that.
  
  *Note that the time spent with this title reflects both the 360 and PC versions.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordvalek
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 28, 2008 6:06 am PT
Review:  ok so as everyone prolly knows, this is not just your everyday shooter. with a nice blend of rpg 
 elements, mass effect pc really shines. with improved controls over the xbox360 version, it feels 
 like this game is right where it should have been from the start. i have never really been a fan 
 of fps's on consoles, so my opinion is some what bias. so far i really enjoy the game. just had 
 to take a quick break to take care of real life stuff, but ill prolly be sucked into this one for 
 a while. only down side is limited activations so unless i plan on overhauling my pc anytime soon 
 that shouldnt be to big of a problem for me. i hope that e. a. had limited influence on this game 
 other than securom. i recomend this to anyone who is an rpg or shooter fan, great storytelling 
 and wonderful voiceover work. could it get any better? maybe, but im not quite sure how yet 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
