-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Massive Assault Network
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/massiveassaultnetwork/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  4, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.8, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 23 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Wargaming. net
Genre: Sci-Fi Turn-Based...
Date:     Apr 13, 2004

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Massive Assault Network isn't so much a step forward as it is a step sideways -- or even backward. 
 

  Massive Assault was a game that had a lot of potential but only partially realized it. Released 
 last October, Massive Assault looked like a 3D real-time strategy game but played like a streamlined 
 turn-based wargame. It featured some interesting gameplay ideas and was easy to learn but challenging 
 to master. In fact, it was often too challenging, what with its nonadjustable artificial intelligence 
 and imbalanced scenarios that were often so tough that they made the game more punishing than fun. 
 Fortunately, you could also play against humans via hotseat, or you could engage in play-by-e-mail-style 
 games, thus avoiding these problems. Now, developer Wargaming. net has released an updated yet very 
 similar version of Massive Assault called Massive Assault Network. It tries to avoid some of the 
 problems found in the original game by simply jettisoning most of the single-player component and 
 only slightly upgrading the multiplayer options. With these changes, Massive Assault Network isn't 
 so much a step forward as it is a step sideways -- or even backward.  

          This guide is fine, but where's the manual?     

  One of the biggest differences between 
 Massive Assault and Massive Assault Network is simply a new pricing and delivery scheme. The new 
 game is available in a trial format as a free download and features a simple offline tutorial, 
 three scenarios against the AI, and unlimited skirmish play versus the AI or humans on a single, 
 small map. Paying for a monthly subscription grants you access to naval units and eight maps for 
 online play -- and more is scheduled for later release. A subscription also lets you play in tournaments, 
 track your online stats, and rise higher in the posted rankings than players of the trial version. 

  Both the trial and full versions are compatible with the original Massive Assault, since the game 
 engine and gameplay are essentially identical. It's a shame there are no new units or game modes 
 in Massive Assault Network, but then again, the original Massive Assault gameplay was pretty well 
 honed. The game is turn-based, and while you don't see hexes all over the map, Massive Assault 
 Network is essentially a hex-based game. Whenever you select a unit, little circles light up on 
 the map, revealing a grid of potential movement destinations. A large red circle also appears to 
 show the extent of your selected unit's weapons range.  

  During each turn, you move your units in any order, choosing from their available grid positions. 
 The game takes on a chesslike feel, since each type of unit can only move a particular number of 
 grid spaces each turn; also, ground units can't move through an occupied space. This makes coordinating 
 your forces and effectively blocking enemy units quite tricky. To make things more complex, only 
 certain units can fire over friendly units.  

  After you've made your moves, you can instruct each unit to fire on the enemies of your choice, 
 if the enemy units are in range. Then you click a button to end your turn, after which your opponent 
 moves and attacks. You can watch the resulting animations at different speeds, or you can simply 
 skip to the end to see the final outcome.  

          It's a generic yet pretty gameworld.     

  You'll get to fight with clomping mechs, 
 sleek bombers, wheeled missile launchers and more. Vehicles break down into ground, air, sea, and 
 amphibious units, and you also get fixed defensive towers. Each unit has just a few straightforward 
 stats, and each side gets equivalent units that only differ cosmetically.  

  Massive Assault Network is about more than just the tactics involved with moving units around. 
 There are interesting strategic elements, too, so you'll have to decide exactly what units to purchase 
 at what point, since you get only limited revenues from certain territories. A major strategic 
 twist that's a Massive Assault hallmark is the way you select your starting territories from a 
 number of possibilities and then get to reveal secret allied territories as the match progresses. 
 Your choices can dramatically change the ebb and flow of combat on each map, and they can turn 
 your enemy's well-made plans around. This adds a lot of strategic interest and replayability to 
 what's otherwise a fairly simple game.     

  One of the best things about the original Massive Assault was its user-friendliness, which remains 
 more or less intact. You still get the generous undo and rewind buttons, which let you try out 
 different tactics before choosing to end your current turn. You also still get helpful optional 
 prompts when making key game decisions -- or when you forget to make them (as the case may be) .  
 

          Optional play aids help you avoid dumb mistakes.     

  You also get eight brief tutorial missions and three brief scenarios versus the AI. These still 
 don't cover everything you need to know, because they focus on basic movement and combat concepts 
 rather than on strategy. Unbelievably, the game doesn't come with a manual. As a result, you'll 
 have to root around on the official Web site for answers, or you can search through a hard-to-read 
 text file that's littered with html tags. You can hit F1 for help screens, but you probably wouldn't 
 know this without having played the original Massive Assault.  

  The AI now has three difficulty settings (previously added in a patch to the original game) . This 
 makes the tutorial missions and three scenarios a breeze, but even on the easiest setting, the 
 AI is still utterly unrelenting in the skirmish mode. Many players will likely find matches more 
 discouraging than fun. On the bright side, Massive Assault Network lets you play online games against 
 three official mentors. The mentor we played was friendly enough but didn't actually mentor us; 
 he never even offered any advice or hints until we asked him if he was supposed to do so.  

  You can battle these mentors or other players over the Internet with a system akin to play-by-e-mail. 
 The game automates the process for you, letting you send and receive turns through a central server 
 and a smooth interface. Massive Assault Network has removed the hotseat option, and there's still 
 no way to play a truly live match, like in some other turn-based strategy games, but you will find 
 beefed-up opponent-finding options. Now you can engage in real-time chat, send messages, and issue 
 public challenges to any players who meet the criteria you select. Additionally, you can send out 
 private challenges to specific players. These are nice features, but since it was easy to find 
 numerous online matches in the original Massive Assault, it's hard to get excited about these upgrades. 

  Outside of some slightly upgraded planet and sky textures, the presentation of Massive Assault 
 Network is the same as in the original game. Once again, the game leaves a lot to be desired stylistically. 
 There's no story, and the setting and units feel utterly anonymous and generic. Also, there's still 
 only one voice-over artist for the whole game, and it's the same woman who did the voice work for 
 the first game. With her very heavy Eastern European accent, "win" comes out as "ween," and "enemy" 
 can sound like "enema." This sure ruins the mood in a hurry.  

          You won't find new units or game modes.     

  Despite these failings, the graphics 
 at least look sharp and reasonably attractive. Everything is vibrantly colored, weapons fire, and 
 explosions look dramatic. Furthermore, lots of little details, like waves lapping against beaches 
 and trees swaying in the breeze, make for some pretty scenes. You can easily zoom, rotate, and 
 pan the camera to get the best view of the action. The music and sound effects (outside of the 
 voice-overs) are likewise solid, even if they fail to give the game any sort of distinctive ambience. 

  Massive Assault Network is an odd release. On the one hand, the gameplay is as interesting, challenging, 
 and addictive as ever. Strategy lovers who are looking for something different should certainly 
 check out either the original game or the free trial version of this new one. On the other hand, 
 Massive Assault Network is ultimately just a simple retread of the first Massive Assault -- but with 
 very little to entice existing fans. It fixes few, if any, of the major problems found in the original 
 and inexplicably ditches most of the single-player game. Why not improve and expand it? The new 
 multiplayer features are nice enough, but the changes in Massive Assault Network are relatively 
 small and would have made more sense if they had been released as a patch to the original game 
 rather than as a separate, new release. Like the original Massive Assault, Massive Assault Network 
 has a lot of potential but fails to fully realize it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: britneyyy
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2005 8:31 am PT
Review:  I have 20 year experience in playing games, but this is it, i must give all 10s
  for this game though is not very good music in game but for this genre is enough. Maybe little 
 hard in the beginning but addiction is the everlasting 
  1 life is not enough for pleasure which game can give to you.
  Who started once he will never 
 stop.
  Very soon should be release of the MAN 2, which i can't wait.
  Graphic is very good but not cpectacular .
  Game is combination of tetris and Riziko 2 best games 
 ever till now
  trial of this game is free on 1 map for lifetime.
  one of the best online multiplayer games ever.
  you can play 100 simultaneous games at the same 
 time.
  in small countries with bad connections like mine yopu can play offline than sent turns of all 
 games.
  There are varieties of maps from small to big ones with heavy naval clashes .
  I am the in top 10 players in game (nick MANKO) in the world.
  I could spent hours to describe 
 this game but you must try it to see why i am saying that.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: silicor
Rating: 9
Date: May 29, 2004 12:21 am PT
Review:  As a miniatures game player, I love good turn based games. Massive Assault Network is one of them. 
 This is a good old fashioned wargame where cities provide resources and you have the option to 
 buy units or every turn or save up for bigger units or an assault force. The game only supports 
 1 on 1 matches, but a league system (clan wars) allows players to work together towards a common 
 goal. The maps and stats for the Clan Wars are not in game, but are available via the web. You 
 can read more about this aspect on the MAN forums. 
  
  To me graphics and sound do not make much of a difference to me in turn based strategy games, but 
 game play and fairness do. Game play is smooth and intuitive with a great opportunity to display 
 both your tactical and strategic skills. The key in MAN are the secret allies. At the beginning 
 of the game you have a fixed number of secret allies randomly distributed across the map. During 
 your setup, you make two of these active while the rest remain hidden. Each turn you may activate 
 one of your secret allies and place the starting allotment of troops to protect the province (or 
 setup for an attack or setup to protect another province) . To be a consistent winner you have to 
 manage your secret allies well and prepare for your opponent to reveal his. Another indicator of 
 good game play is solid balance between the sides so its just not a matter of using one canned 
 tactic or strategy to win. In MAN both players have units with the same exact stats. This may seem 
 boring to some, but it make for perfect balance. 
  
  What I mean by fairness, is that the players who plays better will triumph the vast majority of 
 the time. Obviously, balance plays a big part here, but there are two other factors that affect 
 the fairness: initiative and secret ally distribution. I have found the secret ally distribution 
 to play a minor part, but some setups can start you at a disadvantage. Initiative has a much greater 
 impact. Phantom League (PL) player always moves first. This means that that the Free Nations Union 
 (FNU) player will need to play more defensive on the first turn, especially on smaller maps. When 
 games are setup, you can specify which side you want to play or you can let the computer pick. 
 In tournament play, each player gets to play both sides so it is not an issue. During Clan Wars, 
 this imbalance is taken into account by always having the attacker play FNU and the defender PL. 
 This gives the advantage to the defender.
  
  In conclusion, MAN is a great value at ~$7 per month with no other initial investment. This means 
 that you can play the full game with minimal risk (as we have all paid full retail for games that 
 we hardly touched) . For me this game is addicting and keeps me coming back for more.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
