-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Master of Orion III
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/masteroforion3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  5, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 6.0, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 5.6, 775 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Quicksilver Soft.
Genre: Sci-Fi Turn-Based...
Date:     Feb 25, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Master of Orion III is a disappointing follow-up to the two most significant space empire games 
 ever. 

 Quicksilver's Master of Orion III is more complex than any of the previous games in the turn-based 
 strategy series of interstellar conquest, and yet it lacks much of what made its predecessors such 
 classics. The design relies on extensive automation to make it playable, and at its best, Master 
 of Orion III succeeds in reducing the micromanagement that often plagues the later stages of games 
 in this genre. But the combination of weak opponent AI, unappealing graphics, and having to second-guess 
 the automation makes for an experience that is much less rewarding than you might hope, especially 
 considering how much effort you must exert to get used to the game's complicated interface.    
        Your mission: Manage a galactic empire and wipe everyone else off the giant galactic map. 
    

 Many of the basic mechanics in Master of Orion III are the same as in the previous games. You start 
 out in a lone system that's being orbited by a couple of scout ships and a colony ship. You start 
 exploring and colonizing your corner of the galaxy and balance the need to build new colony ships 
 against developing infrastructure so that you can build ships faster later on. Colonies take a 
 long time to develop, depending on how suitable the worlds are for your species, and are pretty 
 much defenseless early on. It won't be long before you bump into other species, though it may take 
 a while to set up diplomatic relations, and you have to build military ships just to guard your 
 fledgling territories and set up choke points to prevent other empires from sending colony ships 
 to parts of space you'd rather consider your own. Early decisions determine the course of your 
 empire, but there's really not a lot of action at this point in a game.   

 It can take a long time to make any progress in your first game of Master of Orion III. Not only 
 does it take some effort to get used to the game's sprawling interface, but basic things like moving 
 a ship to a location a few systems away or building a new colony ship can take a dozen turns, at 
 least at first. And unlike other turn-based strategy games, Master of Orion III doesn't prompt 
 you to advance turns when all your units have movement orders. The game's pace picks up only once 
 you've started hitting the "next turn" button every few minutes, though you can at least research 
 technologies that get your ships moving faster.  

 Master of Orion III may seem like a daunting game, but it's not a difficult one. Unfortunately, 
 new players don't even get the luxury of a real tutorial to help them along. When you first boot 
 up the game, you can choose the "quick game" option from the main menu to bypass the options for 
 setting up a game and be dropped immediately into a large galaxy map. The closest thing to a tutorial 
 is the "master's notes," a series of text boxes that appear on every new interface screen. The 
 master's notes are long and dull to read, but they're still more useful than the game's manual, 
 which was apparently printed long before the game was released and is rather outdated; in fact, 
 the game's readme documentation file has a long list of manual errata. The manual's true purpose 
 seems to simply be to relate the game's background story, which may satisfy a few extremely curious 
 players but doesn't otherwise play much of a role in the game.  

 If you've ever wondered how big a galaxy really is, Master of Orion III's main 3D map should give 
 you some idea. The game succeeds in conveying the truly massive scale of space, since playing a 
 small, simple map just isn't an option. You can play a small cluster galaxy, but even this kind 
 of map will be a ball-like cluster of 50 to 100 stars -- a map you'll have to rotate about just to 
 get a sense of how far each star is from its neighbor and how far your own civilization's borders 
 extend. The standard spiral galaxy maps are actually simpler to play, since you can usually leave 
 the universe locked in the overhead view.          There's lots of detail, but most tasks are automatically 
 taken care of.    

 This sense of scale carries over to many other parts of the game and contributes to the mazelike 
 interface. There are eight major reference screens for elements like finance, diplomacy, and shipbuilding, 
 and each one has at least two major window views. The important planetary management screen contains 
 no fewer than six submenus to control the finance and infrastructure for one of many planets in 
 your empire and to passively consult the demographics, local military status, and environment suitability. 
 And there are separate expandable screens for the two build queues. While this setup does hide 
 unnecessary details, it also forces you to open up even more screens before you can get to the 
 production controls you need to get to most. Master of Orion III features AI automation that will 
 carry out basic tasks for you, and this automation generally handles finance and basic infrastructure 
 building fairly well, but it's pretty terrible at choosing military projects to build. As such, 
 it's too bad the build queues aren't surfaced more prominently at the planet level and on the overview 
 screen that lists all the planets in your empire. Still, there are ways to limit how often you 
 need to tweak production, first by marking ship designs obsolete and then by adding orders to build 
 five or 10 of something to the otherwise short three-slot queue.  

 The game's automation is arguably helpful and does keep Master of Orion III moving even when you're 
 running an empire of 50 or more colonies -- in these cases, letting less-than-competent AI automation 
 take care of the details seems like a much more attractive prospect than micromanaging every last 
 colony. However, the game's opponent AI is simply bad. In fact, it's actually difficult to lose 
 a single-player game because of how rarely a computer-controlled empire will attack even completely 
 undefended planets. The higher difficulty settings don't make the AI any more warlike, but they 
 do make the other empires expand more effectively and defend their planets better. So instead of 
 being a game about conquering the galaxy by fighting battles here and there, the real challenge 
 in Master of Orion III is gobbling up new worlds faster than other empires and then grinding through 
 the weak to moderate defenses of every other world on the map. There's not much reason for you 
 to build your own defenses, such as orbital defenses or system ships -- although planetary shields 
 keep piracy and unrest down. The only defenses you really need to build are just to keep your opponents' 
 pesky colony ships from getting to their destinations.    

 It's true that setting a game of Master of Orion III at different difficulty levels really doesn't 
 make any difference when starting a new game, but the game does have a few other settings that 
 do matter. While conquering every single planet always assures you the satisfaction of an overwhelming 
 victory, it's possible to turn off the other two victory conditions. The easiest goal to win, or 
 lose, is the presidency of the Orion Senate. If your empire is randomly picked to start out in 
 the galactic core and belongs to the senate, then you have a leg up, since you'll at least be aware 
 of the periodic presidential elections and the generally insignificant legislation that comes up 
 for members to vote on. The new orions, as the elder race, are seemingly satisfied with their single 
 planet and superior technology and only occasionally send out their massive fleets or flaunt their 
 massive 1000-senate-vote edge. But after around 200 turns, an expansionist empire will have enough 
 votes to challenge the orions for the podium. If you care to, you can simply end your game early 
 at this point, but if not, your game may be ended for you -- and completely without warning if you 
 don't belong to the senate.           The real job is to manage production queues and send ships 
 to their unwitting targets.     

  The other victory condition requires you to find five ancient artifacts, which lend major empire 
 bonuses when you finally find one and wait for the necessary research to be complete. The process 
 is so long, involved, and secondary to the main action of the game that it's not a compelling alternative 
 goal. No matter what strategy you decide to focus on (military, economic, or otherwise) , it's hard 
 to track your progress compared to other empires because the only relative rank is a numerical 
 power rank that conflates a variety of factors. Don't look for detailed graphs listing all the 
 empires' relative success in research, population growth, military strength, or the like. That 
 sort of detailed data is available only on the victory screen.   

  Selecting and customizing your race is an even more important consideration while setting up a 
 new game. Master of Orion III has 16 default races, but there are few limits to the customization, 
 so you can simply pick a portrait you like and choose attributes you think will give you the most 
 advantage. Some racial bonuses are much more beneficial than others, and some races are much harder 
 to play than others, but the game gives no indication to new players about what makes one race 
 better than another.   

  Master of Orion III packs in every gameplay component you might expect from playing early games 
 in the series, and although most are incredibly more detailed, they lose some personality in the 
 process. There's a certain appeal to researching exotic-sounding technologies, but the game has 
 so many of them that it's hard to get a sense of what does what. But don't worry about keeping 
 track, because you can more or less forget about that part of the game while the automation just 
 keeps things plodding along. That's not to say that research doesn't matter, because new technology 
 does unlock new ship sizes and weapons, infrastructure upgrades, and general empire bonuses. However, 
 if you wanted to focus on designing a fleet of powerful starships, you'll find that you really 
 only need to track which enhancements you're adding to your designs. Otherwise, you'll basically 
 just press the auto-build button. Individual ships can't move by themselves and must be assigned 
 to task forces, and to differentiate otherwise generic ships, there are a few different mission 
 types that each ship design and task force must specialize in, such as long-range attacks, missiles, 
 fighter carrier, point defense, and planet destroying. Master of Orion III at least has a simple 
 rock-paper-scissors balance scheme for its ship types, meaning you can't simply build a single, 
 all-purpose design.   

  Master of Orion III does feature a pretty pronounced emphasis on waging war, but unfortunately, 
 the actual combat isn't very interesting. It's possible to automatically resolve most combats, 
 but you can at least make a small difference if you decide to command tactical combat in larger 
 battles. You don't have much control over ships and can't directly tell what ships are equipped 
 with what weapons, but at least you find out more than just whether you won or lost a battle, and 
 you'll find at least a little satisfaction in a large-scale battle between huge invading armadas 
 and a heavily defended planet.           The tactical combat doesn't actually require much control 
 or thought with regard to tactics.     

  The best thing you can say about Master of Orion III's visuals is that they come with some of the 
 lowest system requirements of any PC game this year. The 2D menus consist of very plain-looking 
 blue blocks. The planetary system view and the galactic map don't look bad and are certainly throwbacks 
 to earlier games in the series, but the overall 2D presentation simply doesn't match up to what 
 you might expect from a 2003 game. Unfortunately, Master of Orion III's tactical combat looks especially 
 bad, because the realistically large scale of the map makes the ships look incredibly small on 
 the screen -- little more than dots that shoot variously colored jaggy lines. But since you spend 
 most of your time on the galactic map and planet management screens, the fact that the menus open 
 and close quickly, and that you can switch to a new turn quickly, at least keeps your attention 
 focused on the game at hand. Also, Master of Orion III's musical score is very appropriate for 
 its subject matter and makes a good accompaniment while running through a few hundred turns in 
 an afternoon.   

  Master of Orion III is a disappointing follow-up to the two most significant space empire games 
 ever. The core gameplay is enjoyable enough if you actually spend enough time getting used to the 
 complex interface, but the timid opponent AI keeps the game from being really interesting. Master 
 of Orion III underwent a significant design change early this year to increase the player's direct 
 involvement in the game. Unfortunately, this change doesn't seem to have turned out the way it 
 was intended to; the game's automation helps in many cases, but otherwise, it simply hides whatever 
 decisions it makes from plain sight, and it does a terrible job of managing production. Given its 
 complexity, Master of Orion III can offer plenty of deep gameplay to devoted players, but its AI 
 flaws keep it from giving a satisfying payout in exchange for all that effort.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (36 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: zornundo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 13, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  I started playing this game again after I let it gather dust for a year or two. I rather enjoyed 
 spending time with this game again. It didn't take to long to get back in the saddle. 
  
  This is your standard explore, colonize, research, and then blow up the enemy type game. You can 
 immerse yourself in micromanagement minutiae or just let the computer handle all that small stuff. 
 I prefer to handle all the small stuff myself. Sure, I may build too many mining and bioharvest 
 DEAs on the planets, but I still have fun doing it. 
  
  This game can be hard. You're at the whim of randomness when trying to find colonizable planets 
 nearby to your home system early in the game. This can make for a very frustrating game. A lot 
 of your time will be spent looking for planets to colonize and then engaging your enemies and taking 
 over their systems, hopefully.
  
  If you want to succeed in this game, you're gonna have to research like mad. You will need a leg 
 up on your competition and new tech helps tremendously, both for planetary developement and in 
 battle. 
  
  There are a few ways that you can 'win' the game, from being elected president of the Orion Senate 
 to discovering all five of the Orion X techs. Then there's always the ol' standby of crushing all 
 your opponnents. In a big galaxy, that can take a lot of time.
  
  The game is very enjoyable, especially when you add a lot of computers players to the mix. Makes 
 for more trading partners and more potential enemies. Just let them colonize some planets and then 
 come in after them and conquer them for yourself.
  
  If you can find the first two games, they are definitely worth looking into. That way you can see 
 the progression of the series. The first is very old school and a classic. The second changed things 
 up quite a bit. The third was a huge departure from the second, but I think it is a very solid 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pseudogod82
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 11, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Apparently some people actually enjoy this game once they get over the daunting interface. While 
 Gamespot claims this game has good points after you overcome the learning curve, I still see this 
 game as a complete failure.
  
  Gamespot does not address the question, "is this game fun?" Is this game fun? No. It is so not 
 fun that playing it feels more like work and I could find no reason to ever play this game again.
 
  
  Look at the player reviews and you will find that everyone hates this game; and for good reason, 
 Master of Orion II was amazing. I still have it on my computer to this day, and I would still enjoy 
 it if I played a game on a lazy afternoon. This game, however, is plain bad.
  
  If Microprose was trying to avoid the tedious micromanagement required in the end-game of the turn-based 
 strategy games -- then from Gamespot's view -- they succeeded. But just because turns go quickly, even 
 in end-game, does not mean that this game is a breeze. And what is worse, is that the game just 
 isn't fun. I do not want to invest the time to learn how to handle the interface for a game that 
 seems to have such limited entertainment potential in the first place. I would rather play a game 
 that is fun to begin with that has enough depth to continue being fun later on.
  
  This game is not worth buying. Go find your old copy of MOO2 and install that again. Or better 
 yet, go download Master of Magic from an abandonware site and install that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAgmoore
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 3, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  Based on reviews for this game, I knew that it was crap but for $10, I wanted to know why?
  
  There's a very simple explanation: the guys who coded Moo1 and Moo2 had absolutely nothing 
 to do with Moo3. Wikipedia was very helpful in this regard.
  
  The "WTF? scowl" that I had on my face while studying the user interface was definitely a "Kodak 
 moment". The user interface looks like it was from the 1989 PC era.
  
  After struggling with the unweildy interface, I got tired of watching the "build AI" controlling 
 everything for me.
  
  The tactical combat was a joke: it's played in real-time with simple commands like move and stop 
 and I couldn't find a retreat button. As soon as I saw the graphics for the tactical combat ( imagine 
 small blobs of pink flying across the screen ) my jaw hit the floor - I had not seen graphics like 
 that since the 1982-1984 Acorn / Sinclair Spectrum era.
  
  I could not uninstall this game fast enough, the funny thing is that even with the V1.25 patch, 
 the game would not let me quit the game.
  
  The good news is that I learned that people still play Moo2 using an emulator called DosBox.
 
  
  This game is basically a cash-in, similar in concept to the Predator ( Predator vs. Alien ) or 
 Terminator ( T3 ) movie franchises. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JJFlash572
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 9:34 pm PT
Review:  I was like every other MoO fan and bought this game when it first came out. I tore open the box 
 and pulled out the instructions (Yeah, Im one of those strange people who reads the docs.) . After 
 15 minutes of reading the worst game manual ever printed, I knew I was in trouble. No, it cant 
 be as bad as the book. I thought. Boy was I wrong. So, I booted up the game to run the tutorial, 
 only to find no tutorial. Its Orion 3, itll be okay I continued to delude myself. From beginning 
 to end, MoO 3 is and exercise micro-manage and everything there to make it easier actually ends 
 up making it tougher. Let me explain. Every planet has an AI governor to take care of the minor 
 issues. However, the games AI is dumb as a bag of rocks and will build things that make no sense. 
 So you adapt and just run the planet yourself, but the AI will go and change your orders and no, 
 you cant turn the AI off. Now, imagine that with twenty or so planets and youll quickly realize 
 why the majority of players hate this game. If this doesnt get you cussing out your computer, 
 you need to cut down on the mood stabilizers &amp; anti-depressants. Bad AI can also show up in 
 the espionage screen. Youll occasionally see spies crossing back and forth across a border for 
 no good reason and other acts of stupidity. With enough tech, spies to get smarter, but not much. 
 Another failing of the game is the Orion Senate. While similar to other 4x games, the Senate is 
 somewhere between useless and a royal pain. Whatever resolution you pass, its almost guaranteed 
 not to help you and will probably hurt you in the end. The diplomacy system is better. But with 
 little documentation, everything is trial &amp; error and with a system this deep, one mistake 
 can send you into an unwanted war. In MoO 2 you could hire mercenary commanders to grant bonuses 
 to your empire, and MoO 3 is no different. The trick is, every commander now has a downside. And 
 if the commander is useful, expect them to be assassinated within 20 turns of being hired. If he 
 or she is detrimental, they will have a long and productive career in screwing up your empire. 
 Now lets talk about combat. In 4x space strategy, massive fleet battles and planetary invasions 
 are the bread and butter of any bid to take over the universe and MoO 3 is no different. Just click 
 a button and your AI admiral or general will go to town, without any input from you. I have played 
 ALOT of these games and this game sports one of the most boring combat system (and graphics) Ive 
 every dealt with. I like to play computer games, not have the computer play the game for me. With 
 all this going against it, once you overcome the absolutely brutal learning curve and dense AI, 
 you will find a very deep and detailed strategy game there. Given enough play time, you will begin 
 to understand the AI and all the little nuances and start to truly enjoy this game. The question 
 is, do you have the patience to figure this all out? When you do, you can find me playing Master 
 of Orion 2 or Galactic Civilizations. Two games that dont require 40+ hours of torture before 
 receiving some understanding of how they work and another 10 hours to get any enjoyment out of 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linglingtopher
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 19, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  This could have been THE game. So much beautifully-executed complexity -- the way they designed 
 the planetary development was phenomenal and allowed for all that obsessive-compulsive tweaking 
 we 4X players love to do, without bogging you down in micromanagement. The methodology behind ship 
 combat, with combined-arms fleet warfare, is brilliant in conception, but obviously hobbled and 
 incomplete in execution. Migration, economic concepts. This was a game for which I would have paid 
 $150, and I don't buy many games.
  
  But, unfortunately, they didn't complete it, and, as hard as the fan patchers have worked, it's 
 unworkable in the mid- to end-game. It SEEMS to be playable at first blush, and it leads you on 
 to great hope, but, in the end, the broken basic features and increasing incidence of placeholder 
 features and code (as in, features that are alluded to or part of the game as presented, but which 
 are not actually programmed into the game) leave one despairing at the end. It just wasn't complete, 
 and, from what I read, the developer just dumped it, ceased supporting it, and screwed everyone 
 who bought it. Unforgivable.
  
  Sorrow is a word I don't use for games, but I actually feel sorrow that this game didn't happen, 
 as it was so close. Damn whoever hobbled the development of this game -- what a waste of fantastic 
 work up until close to the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LisaGansky
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 26, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  So... I loved MOO2 so much, I ignored all the terrible reviews and tried this game. What a gigantic 
 disappointment. It's nothing like the second game, not even close. Everything takes forever. They 
 took the good things that were simple to do in the second game, and gave them about ten additional 
 steps. Just, don't waste your money. It's a piece of crap that will just give you endless frustrations -- not 
 to mention it will break your heart at the death of an amazing series.
  
  If i were the designers, I would have taken the second game, given
  -better graphics
  -added 
 more races
  -fleshed out the combat
  -continued a plot based on the Antaarans
  
  Among other things, like bugs.
  
  They had such a great thing going, and they scrapped it all. 
 Such a shame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamdrx
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 17, 2007 4:10 pm PT
Review:  I have imagined almost perfectly such a game since i discovered MOO about 10 years ago ..
  I like deep and complex games , so when i got used to the interface and most of the controls in 
 About 2 weeks of learning (a long learning curve indeed) the real gaming began , and I liked it 
 very much ... This was exactly what I was waiting for ... So for some people , I would recommend 
 to try it first , and don't be to lazy to learn for some time , it might become great fun ... really 
 ^^
  
  P. S.
  There are some issues with the game functionality , but you can make it work fully one way or another 
 cause there are something like long ways and shortcuts to every function sometimes only the long 
 way works ... have fun ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: computerrock
Rating: 1.4
Date: Mar 8, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  A have allways loved the Master of Orion series. I had waited so long for this game, and now that 
 I have it, I would have to say one of the worst games I ahve ever played. It is overcomplicated 
 with useless features I dodn't understand. I was very upset about this game. There isn' a sort 
 of plot, the graphics are horrible compared to the last game this game was absolutely killed by 
 Master of Orion 2 Battle of Antarens. (yes i might have mispelled it but thats not the point) . 
 The sound was crapy, visual was even crapier, no plot, and It took me 5 hours to figure out how 
 to do almost anything. I can not believe that they made this so bad. How somebody from the company 
 who released it or made it could say This is great, its going to do great amongst the fans. That 
 is all I have to say. Oh and one more think, this is the greatest disapointment in the gamer history. 
 That is all. Oh and yes I know I have a bunch of spelling errors leave me alone about that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilreyes
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jan 17, 2007 3:38 am PT
Review:  This may be the most boring game ever. Old text-only versions of Zork are more captivating and 
 rewarding. I love turned based strategy games and enjoyed the original MOO and MOO2... this isn't 
 even a shadow of those classics. There's not a lot I can say about MOO3 because there isn't anything 
 to it other than a completely dry presentation of micromanaging a civilization in a galaxy-wide 
 map. That's it. There is no entertainment value what so ever. Doing your taxes is more fun. Watching 
 dust accumulate is more thrilling. A Chia Pet is more interactive. Avoid this game , life's too 
 short as it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlovakJaso
Rating: 1.1
Date: Dec 22, 2006 3:55 pm PT
Review:  If MOO2 had not been the greatest game of all time, or if I had never played it before I played 
 MOO3, I might have found some playability in it. But I threw the game away after trying to play 
 it and finding out how bad it sucked! They didn't follow the formula for a great game found in 
 MOO2 at all. Just play MOO2 because 3 isn't worth anything by comparison.
  
  Unfortunately no one has ever followed with as great a game in this genre as MOO2. It would seem 
 to be so easy for some smart game company to simply update the graphics, expand the game with a 
 little more depth and keep all of the core elements of this simple game intact and bingo! - and 
 instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sewie_123
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 29, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Well, I freely admit: I loved this game. So much that I decided to try it again (Missing the whole 
 MOO series, probably) . Couldn't find my originals, so I got it from online. Not having to use the 
 disk was a nice feature. The BAD one is that whatever version it is, it isn't recognized by ANY 
 of the patches! It appears to be 1.0 (as I remember it) . So you load it, get hit by the pd bug, 
 try to patch, and find you're out of luck! IF anyone has had luck installing the patch to the online 
 version, I'd love to hear from you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ten2001
Rating: 1.1
Date: Nov 27, 2006 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Master of Orion (MOO - note: great games get abbreviated) one was one of my all time favorites. 
 MOO two was a really great game too, once you patched it. Master of Orion three (notice no abbreviation) 
 is the one game that makes me feel like I am working, and I am an auditor! I need to take a class 
 at MIT before I am qualified to use this software, I really don't think it is meant to be a game. 
 SAP is more user friendly. It was one of the first games I pre-ordered. Yes, I paid full price. 
 I rushed home, installed it and died a little. To cheer myself up, I did my taxes.
  
  Ok, I sound harsh. But given the first two versions, I feel betrayed. I have spent weeks playing 
 MOO one and two and still play them today. Luckily, game developers can't pull a Lucas and go back 
 and screw up their earlier successes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaru
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 2, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  This version of the Master of Orion series was initially a huge disaster. Many of the features 
 did not work properly, others were never activated, and some cornerstones of the macromangement 
 concept were broken. I would have to admit that most people who had eagerly purchased the game 
 were very much let down.
  
  Fortunately for the MOO fans out there, the modding community would not let this stand. Since it's 
 release, many dedicated fans set out to fix the game Quicksilver developed. This group, which patrols 
 the boards at www. moo3. at/board/ and on the Atari boards at  
 are a terrific group that offers advice to newcomers. Over the years, they have repaired what's 
 broken and explored many of the AI issues and determined how the system is intended to work. If 
 you are at all interested in playing, you owe it to yourself to check out these sites, at least 
 look over the main topics so you understand the system, and download at least the vanilla mod pack. 
 If you find it growing on you, let the guys there know their work was appreciated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wis3boi
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 9, 2006 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Need I say more? look and the screenshots. Yes those are screenshots. This is the only game besides 
 Postal 2 to get a 0/10 in one of my gaming magazines. This game wouldn't even cut it in 1980. You 
 might like this game if you like spreadsheets, blurry text, and watching dots and lines. The developers 
 should be hung from a tree by their own intestines, doused in kerosene and shot with fireworks. 
 What more can i say beside this game should be burried in dog crap and set on fire. This isnt a 
 game. I actually saw this game on the shelf of Gamestop a few months ago for $46.99. ROFLCOPTER!!! 
 What were the developers smoking? Wait, what weren't they smoking? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matthew_the_Mag
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 7:24 am PT
Review:  I loved MOO 2 and Bought MOO 3 on faith that they would continue to improve the game. I was wrong 
 the AI had major problems so instead of easing the Micro Manage end of it, it was actually worse 
 because you had to double check each planet to make sure what the AI Gov. was doing.
  
  I have to say i liked the graphics and the play of the game and the choices it offered and i did 
 play it for quite some time but finally the AI was just to much to put up with and lack of support 
 the game was the worse i have ever seen in my gaming life there was no excuse to the delay in Patching 
 or the way the game was left hanging.
  
  Could have been much more. It had bad AI bugs at release. I liked the Game Play & Graphics but 
 it lacked polish because of the glaring AI building bugs at lease. Ex planets building Transport 
 after Transport after Transport yet not bothering to Build War ships 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cuda418
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 29, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Well, what can I say. It is the worst PC game sequel ever. An analogy to movies would be Caddyshack 
 II.
  
  I do not know the buffer on this text window, but I could fill it with point after point about 
 how bad this game really is.
  
  Reading in the forums about this game is more fun than the game itself. People who have just clicked 
 next turn a few hundred times and won the game, etc. You can't control, observe, or correct most 
 features of the game (thus its more of watching a game than playing it) .
  
  I did give the game FOUR days of continual playing to try and like it, as I waited for the game 
 for some time.
  
  Whoever playtested this game should be dipped in boiling oil then set on fire. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentat76
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 20, 2006 3:24 am PT
Review:  A game that shook the world and became a best seller, a masterpiece and it was more than 10 years 
 ago. It was Moo i am talking about, it became an instant love of all of us...
  
  Then the second sequel came, the Moo2, and it excelled in every aspect of his ancestor despite 
 the criticisms. Soon again, it was a Master piece, and it surely and rightfully occupied the throne 
 of 4x genre.
  
  The very first time i bought this game (moo3) , i was so excited that i couldnt wait to get to home 
 and jump right in front of my screen and while the game was being installed i was dreaming about 
 the pleasure it will offer for the numerous sleepless nights and days ahead.
  
  Of course, it was totally , absolutely a disaster. Terrible, horrible. I was so frustrated that 
 i couldnt accept the reality that this was a "bad" game. I couldnt impute to this name. "Master 
 of Orion". No it was not a Moo, it was something else.
  
  I refuse to let it called as "Master of orion" as it is something else. The spirit is gone, The 
 joy is gone, the symphatic structure is gone, it has become a much more serious and.. formal game.. 
 There is so much to control and set and to adjust that the player cant keep up with the game. it 
 is very hard to feel the satisfaction of the game as you are continously frustrated. I am not even 
 mentioning the bugs. It was very disappointing for me, that long wait for such a game... 
  
  The Moo2 is still in its throne, and it seems to be it will be staying there as no other equivalent 
 games could ever challenge it by means of satisfaction, including Galactic civilizations 2. 
  
  I just want to ask that Why dont you just take all you can from Moo2, and give all your efforts 
 move it further? there is a perfect example in front of you. it has a lot of fans, supporters, 
 you dont have the right to let them down. 
  
  We just wanted this game to be renewed by means of ;
  graphics, 
  sounds, 
  some cinematics, 
 
  new governors and pilots, 
  new ship designs and 
  extra customization options for races.
  All you had to do was to improve features listed above 
 and then call it as Moo3 it is ok with me! 
  We didnt ask for a total change of everything!! They just changed each and every dime of the game. 
 It is not moo anymore.
  
  Designers - Just improve the graphics, enhace sounds a little more and add some fancy cinematics 
 to improve atmosphere of the game and thats all. its ok with me really, i will buy it with my eyes 
 closed. And i am sure that a lot of people will buy either. Somebody please do it, release the 
 "Moo2,5". 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 23, 2006 9:37 am PT
Review:  What can I say that hasn't been said already? I honstly cannot believe that they released this 
 game in the condition that it was in and then had the gul to sit back and try and tell us that 
 it is a perfect game. This was unequivically the worst game ever made for 4x (eXpand, eXploit, 
 eXplore, eXterminate) ever. It is also one of the worst games ever released for the PC. Although 
 it did have some really great ideas, the fuzzy fonts and the take the game cd and shoot it with 
 a shot gun frustration factor of this "spreadsheet in futility" game just ruined it. Add to that 
 the mocking condecending and liberally rude "lets laugh our way to the bank" attitude of the game 
 developer and publisher just threw salt into the wound. If your looking for a good 4x game don't 
 bother with this tripe, go order Space Empires IV Deluxe from SFI and spend your time enjoying 
 a game that is worth your spare change. MOOIII was simply bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: argo130
Rating: 1.1
Date: Jan 29, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  I still feel burned by this game's creators. Such a shame they smeared the MOO name with this vile 
 fluid. The company did release one patch before they ran off, pointing and laughing at fans of 
 the game, pockets filled with coin. 
  
  One day I saw their van driving down my street. It looked like it had just pulled out of my drive. 
 I rushed home filled with hope that they had left me a working edition of the game. I was saddened 
 to discover that instead my garbage cans were empty and my dog was pregnant.
  
  I still hope for a 4X to come out and be wonderful. A space empire game worthy of the MOO name. 
 I think it will, except it's going to be called GalCiv2.
  I hope.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kocur
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 31, 2005 4:12 am PT
Review:  This game simply doesn't deserves any better note than 1. For what? For killing the best space 
 strategy game series? Master of Orion 2 was (and is still...) one of my most favourite games. This 
 follower is a bad joke, a taunt and a cynism from uncapable programmers who are not related to 
 the former titles and who would be more useful in washing dishes by McDonalds than spoiling this 
 strategy legend.
  
  Graphics: The interface is schematic and boring like a business schedule in Microsoft Excel. The 
 ship designs? I suppose any kid under 10 can draw them better. The species design - if someone 
 calls revolting microwaves and kitchen accessories cybernetic species, I'm sorry for him.
  
  Sound: Is there any? I really don't remember anything special...
  
  Gameplay: When you 
 finally find out what to do with the illogical and extremely annoying and unballanced planet building 
 interface, you'll be overrun by another species comming out from nowhere. The space combat is anonymous, 
 uninformative, you may only watch some pixels shooting at each other without the possibility of 
 taking action on your own. And after that you may notice some of your ships or whole fleets missing.
 
  
  Well, I could show some mercy, be less subjective and rate this game with better than 1. But it's 
 a matter of principle: Because it claims to be the the successor (what a rudeness!) of the legendary 
 Master of Orion 1 + 2, I'll remain merciless. I would rate it better if it would not be related 
 to the series, but in that case I would had never purchased such a dull game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avpget
Rating: 4.8
Date: Nov 21, 2005 8:22 pm PT
Review:  I was a big fan of the Master of Orion series but this one took everything bad that the first two 
 games had and added a few other dumb improvements as well. First the graphics are atrocious in 
 battle. Although the Aliens look good too bad the rest didnt follow. The A. I. is also eccentric 
 one turn they declare war on me for no particular reason. Then the next turn they want peace and 
 then they declare war on me again. To make matters worse the text and descriptions seems like they 
 are in a different language. Its confusing to work with but everything is done automatically so 
 just ignore most of the stuff. Yet its confusing to build a fleet because the help is almost useless 
 as well. For some reason this game is addictive for a few hours then I beat the game and couldnt 
 play it again. For people who are thinking of buying it, buy it in the bargain bin for five dollars 
 and see what think of it. Its worth the five dollars not thirty dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cannyfox
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 3, 2005 1:18 am PT
Review:  Having played both Master of Orion 1 & 2, I was really looking forward to getting my teeth into 
 the third installment. In a way, I was very disappointed ... it was nothing like the first two.
 
  
  Having said that, the game isn't without it's good points. It's got a lot of game time, so much 
 in fact, that you almost always run out of both patience and interest long before you finish the 
 game. I think the best word I can use to describe the game here, is ponderous.
  
  Once you have a sizeable empire going, don't expect a speedy game. It can take as much as 5 - 8 
 minutes to work your way through all the details that crop up ... and if you don't, you won't have 
 much of an empire.
  
  The space combat system has been upgraded substantially. Rather than being turn-based as in the 
 past, it is now real time - and it does seem to pay a lot of attention to physics ... battles are 
 a lot more realistic ... but also more difficult to control and follow. In the end you may just 
 want to let the computer deal with all the details.
  
  The game has improved in the graphics department, but that's all I can really say about that. The 
 aliens look suitably ... well, alien ... but the one place where the game has slipped quite a lot 
 is the diplomacy screen. Try reading the dialogue, it doesn't make sense most of the time - making 
 it seem as if the programmers had rushed it in at the last minute.
  
  In the end this is more of a government training excercise than an actual game, and if you actually 
 manage to finish it (and win...) you'll be uniquely qualified to run a country at the very least. 
 
  
  In fact, right now I could point out a couple of governments who could use the extra experience 
 ...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Visitor_basic
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 2, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  Okay, first get the 2CD version of the game so the patch 1.25 can be installed. Next get the Install 
 Checker and check the game. Then go over to http://www. moo3. at/ and get a game play MOD that fixes 
 the game or visit the Atari Forum where the game is still discussed. Fixing the game has made it 
 very playable, and even after visiting some of the newer space games, MOO3 is still continued to 
 be played.
  First, the spacealiens have their own personality. Your Empire may suffer from personality problems. 
 Having played the Scourge of the Galaxy -- Humans -- depending also which Government you are running, 
 your people may not agree with what you are doing, the spacealiens certainly will not agree, and 
 the entire Empire will be affected. This is where you come into the game, the history, the state 
 of the Empires as of now, and what to do, either run the Galaxy, get along with the Galaxy, or 
 say they all look weird, and end their lives. Of course, it was always considered in the game to 
 be a different species and play them in the game, and avoid playing Humans at all costs. Check 
 out the Atari Forums for the latest updates to the game. Much has been done to correct the game, 
 and there still may be more done to it. It also is too much to cover in a review so check out the 
 new Enclycopedia another player just finished. Check out the corrections and the mods, then check 
 out how the game should be played. All in all, it is like the first two MOO games, and still is 
 a distinctive game, that also blends in a personality along with running the Empire or Galaxy. 
 Even your own people have their own ideas on individual planets, and well, with so many people, 
 you just thought you were the Emperor.
  
  Check out the 1024 x 768 mode version, the major mods of the game, and all the changes. Yes you 
 will feel lost for awhile and actually have to learn the game, and all that is in the game, but 
 that has always been part of playing any game that comes out. But whether the Developer or Programmers 
 who had to finish the game were actually beamed up to the spacealien's UFO is still a mystery, 
 or merely just had their minds changed while the game was being made. Yes the game suffered from 
 it, but nonetheless, it is a huge game, if anyone wants it to be, or a small game depending on 
 Galaxy size. The Major Mods make the game more interesting to play and help out the game to be 
 the Right Stuff . Check out the Atari Forums for the details because it is not all that hard to 
 do now to change the game by the major mods, since other players have been busy changing the game 
 to be more than what it was when it first came out. A new way of playing a game will have to be 
 learned, and the major mods certainly attained that goal.
  
  Thank you for your time, if anyone is even reading this after 4 years but the game is still worthy 
 to play, even if it takes awhile to learn and play it.
  
  However, being Master of Orion will always be the end result of any of the Master of Orion games. 
 Just say MOO .
  
  And even the same game plays differently if you play the same saved games a few times .
  
  
 Without the MODS though, the game suffered but perhaps that is just the spacealien's technology 
 that went faulty.
  Who knows for sure? Have to keep that Galaxy Spirit!
  
  It is not the fault of our Technology - Humans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthpathfinder
Rating: 1.7
Date: Jan 26, 2005 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Where do i start i mean come on Master of orion 3 how could a game go so wrong, well i will tell 
 you how it went wrong. It seems that when they made master of orion 3 they went back in time 10 
 years and used the pc of old to make this poor stand in of a orion game.
  
  I had played the first two games and yes the graphics where not great but the way them game's played 
 the way they pulled you in was spot on. With this game it trys to confuse you with so much info 
 and so many side screens that you might just go mad playing this game.
  
  If the people that made this game read this review take this peace of adviceDO NOT AND I REPEAT 
 DO NOT MAKE GAMES ANYMORE YOU ARE NOT GOOD AT MAKING GAMES ANYMORE ". For the rest who played this 
 game i will see you in the padded sells. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcana
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 31, 2004 12:11 am PT
Review:  Yep : Master of Orion, in May 1994, was the very first computer game I have ever played, the very 
 same month I purchased my first PC (a 40 MHz 486-model, with 8 MB of RAM) . I still try it out, 
 once a year : it runs fine on my (secondary) Win XP system (a 1000 MHz PIII-model, with 512 MB 
 of RAM) .
  
  Then, Master of Orion II, purchased in December 1996, made me fall in Love all over again : I cannot 
 count the number of enchanting dates & exquisite hours I have spent with her.
  
  I bought Master of Orion III immediately when it was released (in February 2003) . In some aspects 
 (such as a much more immense galaxy) , she has not let me down. 
  
  But she has aged & transformed into a complicated & cold crone : it now takes way too much toil 
 & time to make her give me a galactic-level ecstasy.
  
  I still keep her around on one of my three hard drives : I'm still in love with the Lady, wrinkles, 
 warts & all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMarcus
Rating: 5.4
Date: Sep 18, 2004 11:31 pm PT
Review:  As a MoOII addict, I was shocked like many others to experience what I call now a pre-alpha, alpha 
 stage SPREADSHEET of blurred data and windows clicking fest. The innovative features are there, 
 and it's not that they are badly integrated, it's just they aren't polished. Maybe the testing 
 phase was rushed, even skipped. The AI is lacking and offers no military challenge, and the few 
 patches didn't change that very much. The fonts and user interface, arid and blurred, are enough 
 to kill what could have been a fantastic epic scope.
  
  We know there have been some departures in the midst of the development stage, some top designers 
 have left the project - some conflicts of ideas or personality, whatever - and the game never survived 
 that. The IFPs ( Imperial Focus Points ) were abandoned, and maybe it was too late to recalibrate 
 the rest. The compounds updating was probably impossible to do, thus the AI lacking and the incredible 
 gap between the impressive economic system ( real genuises behind that ) and the military engine 
 ( messed up with the rest ) . Without military units, MoOIII could have been a good tutorial for 
 a ''Interstellar capitalism sim ''. Having tried a good balance of macro and micromanagement for 
 the genre is pure genius, but the results are not there: too ambitious, lack of coordonated developement 
 and the player has 2 choices: 1- let the AI manage, play macro, and be frustrated to see the bizarre 
 decisions made; 2-micromanage almost everything to keep control, but endless and endless tedious 
 moves to make at an unacceptable level of one hour per turn and more......
  
  The interaction with rivals you meet is cold, unintuitive, and lacks the epic warmth of the classic 
 prequels. Some battles are good to see though, especially when attacking the New Orions at their 
 home system.
  
  In resume, MoOIII was perhaps too ambitious and innovative for the genre at that time , yet the 
 development schism has just killed the otherwise decent effort to bring the TBS management/ RTS 
 combat in the franchise. Total War remains the best reference for the combo of both in the strategy 
 era. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dommer2029
Rating: 3.6
Date: Aug 21, 2004 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Master of Orion was a great game.
  MOO2 was an incremental improvement.
  MOO3 tries to be an incremental improvement over MOO2, but is ultimately too buggy to deliver, 
 and you're better off sticking with MOO2 or finding a different franchise to go with.
  
  Now, I'd read the bad reviews on GameSpot, but there were a few that were pretty good -- in particular, 
 saying that the 1.25 patch of the game is a world apart from the version on the CD. You probably 
 can't see the components of my rating, but basically everything is about a 5, except for the Tilt, 
 which is a 1. Why so low? Because after installing the patch, the game wouldn't run on my CD player. 
 Or my backup drive. So that means they took the opportunity when releasing the patch to fix their 
 game bugs, to also try and increase their copy protection security -- and didn't test that any 
 more than the rest of the product! (I was able to find a NoCD patch online, eventually.)
  
  The Master's Notes hint windows have to be dismissed twice before they go away, the Technology 
 School sliders don't "stick" after you've modified them (which means that it's impossible to specialize 
 in any kind of research) , the UI makes it difficult to do the colony-by-colony micromanagement 
 of MOO2 ... instead, you just sort of watch as the AI plays for you, occassionally making minor 
 tweaks.
  
  Okay, enough ranting. MOO3 does have better multiplayer support than MOO2. 1) You can set a time 
 limit for the turns, to make sure the game keeps flowing. 2) The combat is real-time, instead of 
 turn-based. 3) MOO2's between-turn calculations were very slow, MOO3's are pretty quick. If all 
 the bugs were patched, though, MOO3 would still have a lousy UI. Actually, though, I think the 
 premise for the game is flawed. Their idea was that you would have so many planets to manage, that 
 you NEED the AI to take a lot of control for you. Okay, so that's reasonable ... so why am I still 
 responsible for manually updating ship designs as new technologies are released? And why is it 
 even an option for me to control every fleet in every battle? No, micromanagement was much of the 
 point of MOO 1 & 2. If a B+ player can only reasonably control 25 colonies, then make so it's unusual 
 to have more colonies than that -- don't spend a lot of time *trying* to make a sophisticated AI, 
 because even if you succeed, where's the fun in that?
  
  Bad game design, bad UI, and way too many bugs means that this is a game you should stay away from 
 despite the brand name, even if you find it in the bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prenloe
Rating: 3.7
Date: Aug 13, 2004 9:10 am PT
Review:  If you love complex, hard to learn, horribly interfaced games, then Master of Orion 3 is perfect 
 for you. The third installment of this classic series is almost enough to doom the franchise forever. 
 I have been playing Master of Orion 3 off and on since its release and at times, I am still left 
 wondering how this game made it past play-testing. 
  
  As you might expect, you need a lot of information to run a galactic empire. Master of Orion 3 
 provides you with all of the information that you will need, however, it is scattered over a dozen 
 different screens. Furthermore, I believe you are presented with too much information, which causes 
 an undo amount of mental stress. 
  
  For the most part, gamers who are fans of the series are crying fowl. Master of Orion 3 is nothing 
 like its predecessors. The argument is not entirely valid, but does contain some merit. The game 
 is not Master of Orion 2.5. On the same note it is not worthy of the title Master of Orion 3. If 
 you are looking for a 4x space epic, I recommend you check out other titles like Space Empires 
 4 or Galactic Civilizations.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsrarrow
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 22, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Master of Orion 3 (sometimes referred to as MOO3) is the sequel to the highly acclaimed Master 
 of Orion 2 (often referred to as MOO2) , which must to its testament is still played today. Master 
 of Orion 2 is still on my hard drive, I do in fact have two copies (I encourage you to read my 
 review of MOO2 which can be found on the Master of Orion 2 page, but I digress) .
  
  The main problem with Master of Orion 3 is that it suffers from being too big for its shoes. The 
 game is vast; a small galaxy is, for example, about 200 stars - each with upto 7 planets orbiting. 
 That is alot of space to explore. The problem lies in the fact that the player has great difficulty 
 feeling like he actually has any control; the micromanagement AI is so good you might as well just 
 click the turn button.
  
  Battles are another problem, where as in the previous game the player could command each ships 
 exact deployment of weapons and its motion on the field of battle. MOO3 dispenses with this wonderful 
 game mechanic and replaces it with a general system in which the battle is predominately controlled 
 by the AI. Simple 'go kill that guy' commands can be enforced, but there is no real sense of power 
 or authority with the players actions on the battlefield.
  
  The depth found in ship-design in Master of Orion 2 is gone replaced with a shallower system. One 
 of the greatest things about MOO2 was the detailed and varied ship parts you could install on various 
 hulls. This depth is gone. How boring.
  
  Graphically the game is quite lacking, now I realise that the game was released in 2003, however 
 the menus are blue. All of the menus are blue. I have nothing against blue, it's a nice colour; 
 but as they say variety is the spice of life. On the field of battle the ships polygon models are 
 blocky and uninspiring. The map for star systems is actually quite attractive, it has a 'Star-Trek: 
 Next Generations' feel, and is quite pleasant to the eye; even if it is blue in places.
  
  Sound wise the game has a wonderfully forgetful soundtrack, just what you need when you have to 
 listen to it for hours.
  
  Sometimes it feels like the game is playing itself. And although I have heard reports of players 
 finding that the game eventually can reveal a good time. I gave it the benefit of the doubt I tried 
 it for a week. It shouldn't have to take more than half an hour to hook me.
  
  It didn't. So I deleted it.
  
  The Bottom Line
  
  Very disappointing. Let's hope that if 
 (I'd like to type when...) they make a next one that they learn from their mistakes and 'upgrade' 
 MOO2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TerrALtheIBLE
Rating: 1.5
Date: Apr 26, 2004 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Unfortunately I agree with all of sanjuro01s points. I was well aware that you should treat MOO3 
 as an entirely new game as opposed to treating it like a sequal in the MOO series, because that 
 was Quicksilver's intent. To radically redisign the game. Okay, so I start my game treating it 
 like something totally new. And it was new, different, and has an unintuitive interface. I quickloaded 
 a game with a spiral galaxy. I was in the core and part of the senate, so my first game could have 
 been worse. I discovered 4 Xs with little effort and fought off all invading forces with equal 
 ease. Oh yes, making sure all your ship designs are up to date is tediuos and frustrating. There 
 should have been some kind of Auto ship design option like the auto unit creation available in 
 SMAC/SMAX. 
  
  Playing the game feels like you've been put in charge of something huge and complex. That's a good 
 start, but the control and information given to you over everything make the game feel distant. 
 I don't feel like I'm in charge. Instead it was more like suggesting to someone else how to play 
 the game. Yes, that's exactly it. Just like leaning over your buddy's shoulder and telling him 
 exactly how to play his game, and he generally agrees with you but kinda does whatever he/she wants.
 
  
  So, basically I completed one full game by acquiring the Political Victory, and I never ever ever 
 want to play this game again. A total waste of $10 and the 15 hours I spent downloading patches, 
 UI updates, reading strategies, and gameplay.
  Games are supposed to be fun, by this definition MOO3 is not a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wilebill
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 20, 2003 12:08 pm PT
Review:  My prior review is for the release edition. As of August, 2003 the official code patch 1.2.5 has 
 corrected most of the game's more serious shortcomings making it quite playable. Add to the patch 
 one of the major user mods, such as the invader mod or the mega mod, and it is not only playable 
 but fun! The latest patch adds new features to the user interface that make it easier to navigate 
 the game, and the AI behaves more reasonably in diplomacy and more aggressively, enough so to at 
 least provide a credible and satisfying challenge. I now find myself devoting a lot of playing 
 time to Master of Orion III. Despite the criticisms, both just and unjust, leveled against it, 
 there is nothing else quite like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GlennL
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 17, 2003 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Just try the game with the code patch before you pass judgment. When there's blood in the water, 
 everyone wants to pile on. I don't think the game is that bad. Sure, it's not for everyone. The 
 emphasis is on strategy and not on graphics. It is a HUGE game that will take a long time to understand 
 and to play. Don't expect to be able to finish a standard game in one sitting.
  
  A lot of the AI problems have been fixed with the patch. In fact, there have been so many fixes 
 it really isn't relevant to rate the game on a review that was made before the code patch.
  
  I thought the game was unplayable before the code patch, but I have enjoyed it since then. 
 I don't excuse Infogrames for selling a defective product before it was ready, and I'll think twice 
 before pre-ordering one of their games again, but now that it has been patched I think the MOO3 
 deserves a fair evaluation. In fact, I think this web site should review it again with the post 
 code patch.
  
  Also, it is hard to learn the game just by reading the manual (which is lousy) and playing (which 
 is frustrating if you don't know what's going on) . Go to the moo3 web site and take the time to 
 read some of the threads about the game there. It will help you to understand how to play the game 
 and you won't get frustrated.
  
  My bottom line is that if you like BIG strategy games, if you like complex games, if you like science 
 fiction themes, and if you are willing to play out the games, you can probably find many hours 
 of enjoyment with this game for just a few $ in the bargain bin. Just be sure to get the code patch. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mazarin_stone
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 25, 2003 3:07 am PT
Review:  Yeah I remember Starflight an old ECA game and Starflight II, I loved them both!! and actually 
 have copies of them . As for a space based RPG off the top of my head I know there was a D&D (Gold 
 Box) based game, i. e (Pool of Radience) , it was based off the AD&D Spelljammer series, it was called 
 "Pirates Of Inner Space" got a copy of this also somewhere buried in the archives. Moo3 has some 
 Starflight elements in the form of the search for the Antarian "X's" which are special technological 
 surprise packages you have to search for one of the ways to win the game, but even with this facet 
 of the game it is in a real far off relation to Starflight, this game is mainly Stradegy based 
 and I have found has a very poor user interface, intutive but clumbsy & bulky, the instruction 
 manual is seriously lacking in explanations of the finer points of the game, no right click popups 
 with info, such as what the planetary special actually "do", and they are not listed in the manual 
 either. A real dissappointment especially for a game I have been waiting on forever. Looks real 
 pretty though but not worth the $50 expenditure, especially with all the other really good games 
 out on the market. On a brighter note via the grapevine there is a Starflight III in development 
 and should be out by 4th quarter 2003 or 1st quarter 2004 check out www. starflight3. net, really 
 hope this one goes the distance where Moo3 did not.
  
  Sarthex,
  
  sarthex@sarthex. com
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Changmilee
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 6, 2003 11:34 pm PT
Review:  My Dad and I both had the same feeling after playing this game that we did after watching Godzilla 
 a few years ago. That wasn't a terrible movie, but it sure wasn't Godzilla. This isn't a terrible 
 game, it's just not MOO. In it's first two incarnations, MOO was a fun, strategy game with engaging 
 Science Fiction chrome. This version is more of a galactic overlord simulation with most of the 
 fun factor sucked out of it. It will probably appeal to the about 10% of MOO fans who want a hard 
 core, hard work galactic overlord training program. For the rest of us, it's just one big disappointment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Berticus
Rating: 2.2
Date: Mar 31, 2003 6:26 pm PT
Review:  I don't normally enter reviews, but I felt so ripped off by MOO3 that I felt compelled to write 
 this review so as to warn others. In a nut shell, this game seems to have been programmed for the 
 gaming industry in 1995. Poor graphics, fonts, sounds and a needlessly complicated interface leave 
 you perplexed. You would think that a game comprised almost exclusively of screen after screen 
 of text would find a way to make it look crisper. A poor offspring in an otherwise perfect family 
 tree. A re-write of MOO2 would have been better received. Actually I think I am going to rustle 
 up MOO2 and play it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Draconis
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 27, 2003 9:00 am PT
Review:  I really tried to like this game, I took my time to play it and give it a shot, but unfortunately 
 it was not to be. The AI is horrible, races seem to declare war on you every few turns but don't 
 attack your planets. Designing and building ships is no longer fun or easy like MOO or MOO2. For 
 example you can desing a ship and when you click on build it will tell you that it is an invalid 
 design, but it will not say why it is invalid, so you have to try and figure out what is missing. 
 Maybe if your into spread sheets you will enjoy this game. This game is ideal for a CPA, since 
 its nothing but numbers upon numbers and slide bars. The developers seemed to come up with a completely 
 new game, which in itself isn't bad, but when something isn't broke, there is no need to fix it. 
 MOO and MOO2 were excellent games, why they decided to turn it into a spreadsheet game is beyond 
 me. Instead of Master of Orion, it should be Master of Bureaucracy. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
