-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Master of Orion II: Battle at Antares
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/masteroforion2baa/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 26, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.7
Critic Score: 8.3, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 915 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: MicroProse
Developer: SimTex
Genre: Sci-Fi Turn-Based...
Date:     1996

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Players who love strategy games will go nuts for Master of Orion II. 

 When the original Master of Orion first shipped in 1993, the response was mixed. Falling somewhere 
 between the eye-bleeding complexity of games like Pax Imperia and the simplicity of Spaceward Ho!, 
 Master of Orion was loved for the its fast-paced exploration, but beaten up by critics for its 
 simplistic economic model, its repetitive and basic combat system, and its lack of multiplayer 
 options. Now, four years later, SimTex has returned, like the protagonist in a Charles Atlas ad, 
 pumped up with the gameplay equivalent of steroids, to deliver a title that no one would dare call 
 simple. In the creatively named Master of Orion II: Battle at Antares, players will be introduced 
 to a new level of economical, sociological, and military control - a fact that will please almost 
 every veteran, but is almost certain to alienate new players entirely.  

 To put it bluntly, Master of Orion II is complex. Almost every aspect of the original game has been 
 expanded, improved, and detailed to an almost unreasonable degree. One can almost picture an angry 
 programmer muttering to himself, "They want more gameplay options, eh? Well, they're going to get 
 them. Oh yes, they're going to get them." Instead of just adding three entirely new alien 
 races to the game, the designers have gone an extra step, allowing players to design their own 
 races, weighing advantages and disadvantages - like large home world, fantastic traders, trans-dimensional, 
 and repulsive - to create the ultimate alien menace. Players who remember the simplistic nature 
 of exploration in the original title (one star has one planet) will be stunned by the multiplanet 
 star systems of MOO II. A single system can hold many colonies, each on its own planet, and often 
 players will find themselves sharing a system with an opponent if they aren't thorough about colonizing 
 ALL the planets in an area. And what about the new combat options? Ship-to-ship combat with all 
 the extras: plenty of weapons, plenty of shields, plenty of new gizmos (including the Stellar Converter, 
 which lets you destroy a planet!) , and marines that can board your enemy's craft if their shields 
 are down. Unreal. Did I mention that you can blow up entire planets?  

 Oh, and this time there's a story here too. Players will encounter the amazingly annoying Antareans, 
 a extra-dimensional band of aliens who pop in, randomly blow the hell out of fleets and colonies, 
 and then disappear back to their mysterious realm. To fight back, you must first defeat all of 
 your opponents in your own galaxy and find a portal that will enable you to take your ships to 
 another dimension. There's a plotline that explains why you're supposed to be after these little 
 bastards, but after an entire game of suffering random losses to them, you'll want to destroy anything 
 that even sounds Antarean. Fortunately, the Antareans are a selectable plot device, and if you 
 get tired of losing battles in their chaotic attacks, play a game without them. By the way, you 
 can blow up entire planets if you want.  

 In the end though, it's the multiplayer options that make this game shine. Players can go head-to-head 
 with each other via hot-seat (up to eight players) , modem (head-to-head) , serial link (head-to-head) , 
 or network (up to eight again) . The game plays pretty much as it did before, but with the customizable 
 alien choices and TEN linkup capability, it can be played over and over again without losing its 
 allure. As the sequel to a game that many gamers played for over a year anyway, MOO II begins to 
 look like one of the season's best values.  

 Players who love strategy games will go nuts for Master of Orion II. Its detailed play options, 
 random encounters, multiplayer options, and customizing capabilities are everything that the hard-core 
 veteran dreams of. Unfortunately, this same complexity of design is more than most beginners will 
 be able to tackle without becoming frustrated and confused. If you've got the tools (the game runs 
 pretty slow on anything but a Pentium) , and you've got the talent, this is the title you've been 
 waiting for. Oh, and by the way, you can also blow up planets.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: JackfnBurton
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  I never played the original MOO, so when I was introduced to this game I had few expectations. 
 My experience with strategy games at the time had been limited to the Civilization franchise and 
 games like it. Sci Fi themed strategy I'd only experienced in board game form. 
  
  So when I first experienced MOO2 I was hooked. And if you think I am exaggerating, it was one of 
 the reasons my marriage went south so believe it - you will find this game hard to back away from!
 
  
  Somewhat like RISK on a galactic scale, MOO2 liberally borrows concepts from a number of reliable 
 sci fi wells - most notably Star Trek. Considering how few quality Star Trek video games there 
 have been - and still being a Trek fan at the time I found this game irresistible. 
  
  Those of a less dorky pedigree will still find tons to enjoy about this game - essentially your 
 role as galactic emperor is to establish colonies, build fleets, maintain your empire and rule 
 the universe through force or diplomacy. 
  
  You quickly find that force works best, as the enemy AI in this game while not exactly bright is 
 sufficiently ruthless on the higher difficulty levels to make victory difficult and at times seemingly 
 impossible. 
  
  In the game's later stages maintaining your colonies can become tedious and once you have amassed 
 a large enough fleet of ships, combat can become tiresome as well. 
  
  But it's hard to argue with the game's few flaws after the satisfaction of obliterating an entire 
 enemy planet with a ship mounted death ray and taking over the universe by force. 
  
  To say the least the game's graphics are quaint by today's standards, yet it remains a playable 
 and enjoyable experience that I still fire up once in a blue moon. 
  
  If the only exposure you've had to the MOO Universe is the controversial MOO3, do not be discouraged 
 - give this one a try and you may find yourself up late one night, bleary eyed and tired, struggling 
 to eke out just one more turn on a decade old game you never thought you'd like so much! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stika
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  This is my first review so cut me some slack..
  
  Master of Orion 2 (MOO2) battle at Antares: an incredible sequel of a terrible game. When the first 
 Master of orion was launched the game was considered mediocre, how right they were, luckily MOO2 
 is all a sequel should be, bigger, better, more... in just about everyhing, options, graphics, 
 gameplay, sound everything.
  
  This game is all too similar to the wildly popular Sid Meier&acute; s civilization games, only with 
 a small twist, and thats the fact thats in space, like the civilization games there is no plot 
 and there are no real characters, there are simply civilizations that take their first steps in 
 an uknown region, and from there on they must survive, build, research, expand, and eventually 
 comunicate, trade, spy, and declare war on each other.
  
  There are 3 ways to sucessfully finish the game, you may destroy every other civilization in the 
 game, be elected as thel leader of a league formed by all of the civilizations or destroy the antares 
 civilization, a species that are superior in just about everything to all of the other races, you 
 can not trade with them, or declare truce, they will atack every other race at random with their 
 superior firepower, making a hard task to simply survive.
  
  Another strong point of this game its the management of your empire, you must expand them to new 
 worlds, unfortunantly not all are as habitable as others, so some colonys maybe depend on other 
 for food, but, in turn they might be in a planet with vast number of resources, or it may be a 
 large plannet which you could use to become a giant research or manufacturing complex, also you 
 design you own blueprint of each ship type, deciding what type and how many weapons do you want, 
 or if you want it to have some sort of speciall abilitys like invisibility or tractor beams The 
 game also has random events which may deter or empower you, such as discovering ore mines and major 
 research breaktroughs or earthquakes, plagues, and even some nice sabotage from your enemies.
 
  
  Both the sound and graphics were quite good for its time, it featured nice FMV&acute; s for several 
 events in the game, and the aliens were nicely drawn for its time, the music of the game is a soothing 
 one that applies quite well to the theme of the game, and it play a diferent music for each race 
 you come in contact with.
  
  There is however one problem with the game, and that is that it has so many options that in turn 
 it generates a steep lurning curve, luckily with the press of the right mouse button you get a 
 small message saying what does that particular option do.
  
  Overall its a great game that has aged gracefully and it would be perfect if not the steep lurning 
 curve 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentat76
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 15, 2007 2:38 am PT
Review:  A high value 4x game with perfect in almost all aspects. I keep my copy in the first line on my 
 shelf.
  
  Still has no true competitor, Despite it has many followers like Reach for the stars , Imperium 
 galactica , Galactic Civilizations ... etc. I have played them all, none of these games give the 
 taste Moo2 offers. Frankly they are all crap compared to Moo2.
  
  There is everything you are looking for in a 4x game:
  +Superb Tech tree. Tech names are realistic 
 and benefits are well implemented.
  +Fantastic land battle animation even no controls offered surely fun to watch.
  +Great space 
 battle which allows even boarding and capturing ships.
  +Tons of Governors and Commanders add RPG value to game.
  +Incredibly well balanced ship design 
 system.
  +Unique species and custom create your own option.
  +Superb replayability.
  +Galactic News Network (GNN) and random events.
  +Top of the line game balance.
  
  It would 
 be much better if:
  -Colony view would be better..
  -Ship Icons were better and with more variety..
  -Space battles with more realistic animations 
 and sounds.
  -Galactic Council would be more functional.
  
  If any designer would just get the game, put some polish on its graphics (increasing its resolution 
 and color quality) , put some fancy animatics and a little boost to tunes and sound effects without 
 touching its game mechanics, i would buy that with my eyes closed even for a 60$! I am serious, 
 pack it up with a nice box and name it as Master of Orion-II, 20th year anniversary edition I will 
 have my wallet ready. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ka113
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 22, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  Let's not fool ourselves, the game is old and it does show. But it has aged with grace, a lot of 
 games feel prehistoric when you take it down from your shelf but not MOO2. The interfae still holds 
 it's ground, the graphics still feels vibrant and alive, the AI can still kick your ass and the 
 music is just amazing (even if the bitrate is a bit low) . It has everything a strategy gamer want: 
 exploration, scientific advancements, galactic wars, espionage and diplomacy.
  This is one of those games that every self-respecting gamer should have an original copy of in 
 their shelves. I still play it 10 years after it's release, it still reigns supreme in it's genre 
 which I find pretty darn amazing!
  
  For new players it might take some time to get into it. There are a lot of things to learn and 
 there is no tutorial to play through. Heck I'm still refining my tactics to beat the computer at 
 the tougher settings.
  
  Enjoy! This is truly an masterpiece! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: computerrock
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2007 7:14 pm PT
Review:  I think that who ever made this got a humoungus (I spelled that wrong) , pay check because this 
 game became such a big hit amongst strategy players. It is everything that a gamer wants. Although 
 the sound and graphics aren't revolutionary, that isn't what counts in a game, personally people 
 now a days are more concerned with graphics than gameplay, and if you think like that then you 
 are not a true player. This game has everything needed to become a classic, not that it already 
 isn't but, this game has a great scenario, great gameplay, and hundreds of possibilites. Personally 
 my favorite feature is how you gain research, ships, buildings, movement, and growth of population 
 turn by turn, because you don't find that kind of gameplay around in the world that often. But 
 the dogfights are pretty cool to. I also like the fact that each race has their own individual 
 abilities and if you don't like them you can custimize them to make the greatest. Anyways I just 
 wanted to say that this game will go down in history, that is if it hasn't already. Oh and yes, 
 I realize a spelled some of these wrong, people please leave me alone about that. That is all. 
 This game rocks... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 18, 2006 5:20 pm PT
Review:  They just don't make games like this anymore, it seems. Space exploration resource management empire 
 building games are just far too rare. I wouldn't call myself fanatical about them, but they're 
 fun. They're different and I like them.
  
  This isn't the same as something like Homeworld. I've had people try to make comparisons. Sorry, 
 RTS and/or flight sim perspective space colony resource management games aren't the same.
  
  I want to look down on my maps d@#$it.
  
  I miss turn based games. And why do space games 
 need to be first person shooters all the time? Why does space = blow sh@$ up?
  
  Does anybody remember Starflight? Man, wish we could see another one like that someday. Or just 
 more decent sci-fi RPG's. Or more games like this gem. The graphics weren't that hot even at the 
 time. But the game is just a blast to play. It's fun. Building a fleet and smashing empires is 
 just sweet. And it's simple. Probably couldn't find this game very often now, and if you did, it 
 would likely be difficult to get running on your machine. But if you like strategy games, try. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonathanseese
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 11, 2006 5:38 am PT
Review:  When the first Master Of Orion came out, I was glued to the computer captivated by the details 
 Micro-prose put into the game. This is the story w/Master of Orion II. They didn't mess with the 
 chemistry of the first, and added to it. What a great concept. Too many times do companies make 
 sequels to a great game and fall short. Usually because they mess with that balance and chemistry 
 that makes it great. If I had to say ONE thing that was not better, it would be too much micro-management. 
 It's great at First but after you've colonized 12 planets or more, it's annoying to go to each 
 one and tell them what to build. Still it doesn't hurt this gem, play it if you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamm47
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 10, 2006 8:49 am PT
Review:  Please make a worthy follow up to this game, I hate Galactic Civilization II. Greatest flaw was 
 with Diplomatic-Espinoge system. Spying was always a waste of time. The creation of truly unique 
 and diverse alien races and back story, so I can be proud when I kick some butt. That is all I 
 have to say about that...............
  Please make a worthy follow up to this game, I hate Galactic Civilization II. Greatest flaw was 
 with Diplomatic-Espinoge system. Spying was always a waste of time. The creation of truly unique 
 and diverse alien races and back story, so I can be proud when I kick some butt. That is all I 
 have to say about that............... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lantermanc
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 20, 2006 9:13 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome, practically flawless
  It's replay value is great, its fun to play over and over and over again
  There are tons of different 
 races to play (though I only play 4 different ones)
  The spaceship building is cool, the technology is cool, the planet environment is cool, the planet 
 building is cool, the guardian and the orion stuff is cool, allying and attacking other places 
 is cool, and taking over planets with ground troops is awesome
  This game is flawless and is fun anyone who loves turn based strategy games
  
  I would give 
 it 10 but i didn't want to give it too high of a rating because of its graphics 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ymcop
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2006 12:19 am PT
Review:  In those days (1996) , no thing can be better than my Orion II, perfect graphic, perfect sound, 
 perfect game-play ! That was one of the best games I have played. 
  
  8 years old, I had my first own computer, a trashy one, I don't remember exactly, because I did 
 not know much about computer when I was 8 year olds, but let's see: 133 Mhz, 16 MB of RAM, with 
 a corrupt Window 3.1 OS which I did not know how to repair, so I used MS-Dos to play the game ( 
 that is one of the reasons I use to explain to myself & other people why I use the Norton Commander 
 & MS-DOS commands perfectly ^ . ^' )
  
  Orion II make me so impressed with those stars, spaceships. Now I am 18 year olds, I have a new 
 computer with Window XP Pro OS, I can play Fifa Manager 06, Rome: Total-war, Final Fantasy, and 
 so on, but I even play Orion sometimes. The later version, Orion III was never as good as it. I 
 don't know what did you feel about the game, but at that time, with the young and restless brain 
 of a boy, I thought, Orion II was best of the best.
  
  Really, Orion II brought me into the world of stars and spaceships, the world of PCs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoldoAsesino
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  Twelve years ago, Microprose monopolized the Golden Age of strategy games. This genre of games 
 still had a diaper on; and there weren't very much of them around anyway, besides Dune 2 and Warcraft. 
 We had the abstract simulations from Maxis, but they were somewhat insipid and dead to my taste. 
 That doesn't apply to Microprose's games. Microprose released on 1991 one of the landmarks of videogame 
 history (Civilization) and since then transported their philosopher's stone to any conceivable 
 historical or fictional setting; and they did it so well that they manage to do what seemed impossible 
 for the guys at Maxis: interesting, challenging, and full-of-life simulation games. Engaging a 
 naval combat between two sixteenth-century buccaneers wasn't the same thing as to just wait for 
 your crops to show a worm plague icon only to click on a "Fumigate" button. Indeed, Microprose 
 and its products were way beyond their time.
  My following statement is a matter open to debate, but I think that the peak of their OWN programming 
 efforts is Master of Orion 2 (I put aside their still incredible X-COM because it was not developed 
 by Microprose itself but by an English team called Mythos) . Notice that I don't mention Civilization 
 at all. The reasons for that will be stated next.
  Master of Orion 2 belongs to a category of games that may be denominated "Civilization in deep 
 space". It surely has a big influence from Civilization, as you can see from what's all about: 
 you command a certain species and your aim is to explore the universe, expand, gather resources, 
 do research, conduct successful diplomatic relationships with other races, go to war, make peace, 
 give bread and circus to your people, and some day become the Master of the Universe in spite of 
 He-Man. This idea is one of the most revisited and cloned of the whole industry, and perhaps even 
 more than Civilization itself (you can read the whole history of this kind of games in GameSpot's 
 History of Space Empire Games feature, which could be found on the MOO2 summary tag) . Let's mention 
 a few examples: Space Empires IV and the really successful shareware game VGA Planets are members 
 of the same family as Master of Orion 2. Not every kin was successful; as a matter of fact, only 
 a few of them were good games indeed. Master of Orion 2 was, by far, the best of them all; and 
 it deserves this appreciation thanks to its outstanding features.
  One of them is the high rate of customization of the game. Every time you begin a game you are 
 prompted to choose an overall difficulty level, the size of the galaxy, the richness of the planets 
 on organic or mineral deposits, the total number of races in the game, the starting technology 
 level, and the presence or not of random events. Each of these decisions may increase or lessen 
 the complexity of your game. If that wasn't much already, you can choose to create a brand new 
 race and play your game with that one instead of the built-in races. As you can see, these possibilities 
 of customization ensure a very high rate of replayability.
  The other outstanding features of MOO2 that makes it such a perfect game are better understood 
 if we compare them to the correlative ones from Civilization. I will make a short list, so you 
 can see in which way MOO2 surpasses its predecessor and model.
  For example, the research tree. In Civilization, the research tree is very simple, being composed 
 of single subjects that must be studied one at a time; so you'll always manage to investigate the 
 whole research tree some way or the other: the only challenge is to do it fast. In Master of Orion 
 2, that's not true. Each area of study is twofold, threefold, divided on four; and unless your 
 race has the Creative perk (which allows you to research everything) , you'll only acquire one or 
 two subjects with every research. And yes, fast still is better. It's not strange, therefore, that 
 the Psilons race were intended for beginner players. This leads us to two conclusions: one, you 
 won't always discover every technology of the game; and two, you must be in excellent diplomatic 
 relationships with every race so you can keep asking for knowledge exchanges (and checking if your 
 neighbor is not building a Doom Star by the way) .
  Which leads us to another outstanding MOO2 feature: the diplomatic feature. It's true that the 
 diplomatic system of MOO2 is almost equal in design and outline to the one from Civilization, but 
 there's a big difference between them: the level of realism. Diplomacy is not a strong issue of 
 Civilization, and even if you're pointing towards the Alpha Centauri ending you can finish the 
 game without ever contacting another nation's ambassador (unless they contact you, of course) . 
 And when you do use diplomacy, it turns out that it's almost pathetic, since you can manipulate 
 and betray AI players as if they were babies. Signing a peace treaty with your AI neighbor just 
 to make it easier to conquer him the next turn is still one of the main strategies of Civilization. 
 On the other hand, I have noticed that in MOO2, diplomatic betrayals, treasons and backstabbings 
 tend to have deeper, more logical consequences than in Civilization, even if you're playing it 
 in the Tutor difficulty level. And, as I have stated earlier, diplomacy becomes a strong issue 
 of the gameplay thanks to the limited research. The diplomacy system was already great in MOO, 
 but in this sequel it's even more complex.
  Another interesting feature of MOO2 is the possibility of constantly upgrading and customizing 
 the ships of your fleet with the technology you have at hand. Likewise, the addition of leaders, 
 which can be sent to command your colonies or ships to gain bonuses to your production or your 
 military performance, was also a great idea indeed.
  But perhaps the most cool (and, paradoxically, the most shocking) thing about MOO2 is that it manages 
 to be hugely deep, complex, and addictive while being basically menu-driven. You won't see units 
 moving around your screen and talking to you. You'll only see colorful speechless dots, and a menu, 
 and lots of text; and the only thing you'll do is to give orders to the program, just as if you 
 were driving a simulator. The only exceptions to this are your colony screen (where you can get 
 a beautifully rendered panoramic view of the planet and the buildings of your colony) , your laboratory 
 screen (somewhat commonplace, but effective) , and the embassy screen (absolutely impressive, with 
 a perfect simulation of a holographic projector that sometimes gets static and interference on 
 the projection, and excellent musical leitmotivs to each race that otherwise are inaccessible) . 
 This is where MOO succeeds while its other family members fail: their designers have made a lot 
 of hard work to bring a blood-warm life to an interface that other similar products from other 
 companies made even more insipid and boring than normal; and they must be praised forever for creating 
 with such a effort of craftsmanship such a rich and complex game. As another player review says, 
 MOO2 still has no other game that compares to it, and he/she is absolutely right.
  The only drawback of MOO2 is a direct consequence of its (for me) appealing level of complexity. 
 It has a very steep learning curve. You don't learn to play it just on ten minutes, and without 
 a friend or a printed guide that could teach you how to play it MOO2's mechanics could get hard 
 to grab. As a matter of fact, MOO2 is perhaps the only game of the whole industry, besides flight 
 simulators, whose documentation material is completely fundamental in order to play. Therefore, 
 impatient gamers who prefer to engage only fastfoodish, prt -- porter entertainment will get frustrated 
 almost immediately. This doesn't mean, however, that MOO2 is a game intended only to scholars of 
 some kind. It only means that it demands patience and more time for learning it than other games. 
 With this in mind, if you feel that you can tolerate MOO2 steep learning curve, you certainly should 
 add it to your collection. It is, maybe, the ultimate strategy game; and since there are a lot 
 of guides for it on the web it would be a shame if you don't give it at least a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colinjennison
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 17, 2005 10:16 am PT
Review:  I have player every top-selling RTS and TBS game for the PC and MOO2 is still, hands-down the most 
 addictive and intuitive of them all. It is a turn based strategy title, which makes it a little 
 slower then RTS's like warcraft and C&C but by no means is it a "slow" game. Once you get the hang 
 of the game, you'll find yourself eager to click that turn button because of all the things you 
 plan to do and there is a way to make the turns go by on auto until something of note happens so 
 it never turns into some sort of clicking chore. The game doesn't really have much of a "story" 
 persay and you'll soon get fed up of the cutscenes when you win and stuff like that but the fact 
 that you just don't care about that stuff only accentuates how addictive and fluid the core gameplay 
 is! There is so much depth to this game, and yet it's not so difficult to pickup, and its so fun 
 and, yes i'm saying it again, addictive to play. Head and shoulders above the civilization games 
 as far as fun factor, I find the civilization games to be deep, but not nearly as fun.
  
  The coolest thing about the game is probably the option to create yoru own ships, it gives you 
 some serious initiative to research new technologies so you can make some killer fleets, you can 
 even reate a death star like ship and destroy planets. A classic, for sure. BEWARE of MOO3 though, 
 the games that followed this simply don't play the same and are not nearly as good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FUBUSH
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2005 1:43 am PT
Review:  Now that the laughter from my summary has subsided, let's get to the review. The Master of Orion 
 franchise help define the now dead space empire game genre. But that doesn't mean that MoO II isn't 
 a game that you'll get bored of in 8 hours. It has a lot of depth and has an immersive atmosphere 
 that will keep you playing for hours on end. The AI can be incredibly challenging and fun to play, 
 of course you can play with human opponents, but only if you have no plans since this could be 
 a lengthy experience. One of MoO II's greatest strong points is how customizable some the game 
 mechanics are. From the many traits you can choose for your which is based on a system of skill 
 points, to even designing your own ships for specific functions and strategies. There are defaults 
 to these which is helpful when you first try the game, but utilizing and fine tuning these options 
 bring your game to it's full potential. Master of Orion II is an old game (1996) , but it's a classic. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsrarrow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  This is probably one of my favorite games of all time, most enjoyable. It's nothing amazing to 
 look at, the graphics are from way back when and the sound is almost 16 bit. But when I comes to 
 retro PC oldies you can't beat Master of Orion 2.
  
  The Good Things
  
  For those of you who have never heard of MOO2, it is a game where you play the emperor of a space 
 empire that starts small and you have to build it and defend your worlds, and become the greatest 
 empire in the galaxy. However unlike some games, it's not needlessly complicated. It all starts 
 with the race selection screen where you can choose to do what you like, pick a race based on your 
 play style... or create your own race (a feature I much prefer) .
  
  Hidden under the visual facade of the 16 bit graphics is a really well built ecosystem/economic 
 system. The AI battles with each other, sometimes your blamed for the actions of other races in 
 a very under the table spies and cloak and dagger kind of way.
  
  It's turn-based, each turn is about 10 years, allowing enough time for you to justify a planet 
 being able to develop without it seeming a little daft.
  
  The graphics are beautiful in their design, compared to todays standards they're rubbish, but really 
 well drawn and your scientists move in a two frame animation, which I always find quite funny.
 
  
  The thing that makes this game great is game play, for a space-strat-sim it's got something for 
 everyone:
  
  Science, a very deep research tree with benefits that actually have an impact when you get them. 
 You can beat the game using science and your mind instead of brute force.
  
  Terraforming, Genetic manipulation, Chemical weapons, Mass-destuction or BFGs that would make doom 
 pee itself.
  
  The micromanaging of planets is fantastic, certain buildings will give you bonuses and certain 
 races will have innate benefits you can take advantage of. You divvy out your possible working 
 masses on each planet in to three piles:
  
  1: Farmers
  2: Workers
  3 Scientists
  
  A simple system that really makes it easy to get on with running the galaxcy at large.
  
  Building, 
 buildings that benefit your people anything from theatres to hospitals can be built and most of 
 them have upgrades; every little helps. You are able to customise ships, the way they look, what 
 the fire power is even what kind of soldiers are onboard. 
  
  The ship builder is detailed, fun and easy to use, build the kind of ship you want, make 'death 
 stars' that can destroy an entire planet, (but be warned destroying entire planets can really piss 
 of those bugeyed ETs) All ships have there place in the game, with the deathstars (correctly equipped) 
 being the be all and end all.
  
  Fight, blow planets up (really cool animation for this) , attack ships, take over planets and enslave 
 the people, bombard planets and start afresh with your own people. Genocide is 
  
  The fight system is based on a grid in a 2D plane, the space version is really fun to use, cool 
 animations, little missile that takes a few turns to reach your target it's all about tactics and 
 tactics are rewarded (which is always nice) . There is a 'calculate battle' button, which when 
 your going through the universe taking over each system, ironically systematically, is really useful. 
 The planetside version of this I will get to in a minute. 
  
  Peace is an option, you could always just make peace with everyone and become head of the council, 
 thus winning. I really like that this was an option truly a open-minded game indeed. Really at 
 odds with when it was made.
  
  This game still has a great online community, even to this day. It's great fun if you have a home 
 LAN network; even if you don't there is a hot seating mode. One computer can equal loads of fun.
 
  
  The Bad Things
  
  It is really hard to say what I DON'T like about MOO2 because I love it so much.
  
  But, nothing 
 is perfect (except maybe me) . Most of the time your in for the long haul, and sometimes the AI 
 creates a cascade of events which means that you are alone against an intergalactic superpower. 
 Which as you can probably imagine is really annoying.
  
  The planetside battles are really badly designed, it's nothing like the space combat and you have 
 no control over the battles. It's all automated and often you watch your simple townsfolk in there 
 own 16bit world, with there little poking sticks; getting beaten from afar by aliens in suits with 
 big guns. This is really frustrating, especially when your spaceships are far out powering theirs. 
 Who cares who can benchpress more, when you have a gun that can blow up a planet?
  
  The diplomatic relations AI is a bit rubbish. And stupid. Ask it something enough and you'll find 
 it'll do one of two things:
  
  1. Do what you ask.
  2. Declare War.
  
  Now when all you've been asking is for sub-terrainian farm technology you start to ask yourself 
 'why?'. Which is almost unforgivable until your beating them to death with there own flux-capacitor 
 and they are begging for peace and offering up there own mother to placate you. 
  
  This is however a really nice moment.
  
  One thing that really really got on my nerves was 
 the Antares, aliens from another dimension that would randomly attack random systems and desimate 
 the planet and then fly back to their own home world (going to there dimension and killing them 
 is a way of beating the game -not an easy feat I can tell you) , if they happen to be attacking 
 a system your just developing and it's not protected by your entire fleet you might as well give 
 that planet up because it's back to the drawing board. This is a really annoying game mechanic 
 that punishes those you don't get the fast engine tech early. Which is mean because I think that 
 food ins more important on developing world because rocket fuel doesn't feed babies. At least not 
 yet.....
  
  
  The Bottom Line
  
  Master of Orion 2 is at the end of it a game that has never left my hard drive, something which 
 I've always thought as an achievement for a good game. MOO2 is a game I still play, I still enjoy 
 and occasionally brings me something new that I never expected, something that is missing from 
 the games of today. 
  
  This is a game for the ages, if you don't own it already; your mad.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iridium0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 8, 2004 9:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is proof that some games remain timeless.
  
  Eight long years after Master of Orion II first premiered on store shelves, the game still has 
 a permanent abode on my hard drive. Combining a smooth interface with balanced mechanics, MOO2 
 remains the gold standard for space 4X games.
  
  The game offers you approximately 15 species to choose from, from the standard humans (the ultimate 
 shmoozers in the galaxy) to the militaristic Mrrshans and the enigmatic Darloks. If one race doesnt 
 suit you, the game offers a robust ability to customize. Areas that can be customized include government, 
 research ability, and other bonus and drawbacks to your home planet. If youve always wanted to 
 play as cybernetic silicon-based superspies, youre in luck!
  
  Once your species has been selected, you are thrust into the rule as the ageless dictator of your 
 people, destined to rule them from their first colony ship to their eventual dominance. The interface 
 is a rare achievement: one that enhances, rather than interferes with the gameplay. Nothing is 
 more than a few clicks away.
  
  A welcome addition to the series is the entrance of leaders. Occasionally, certain individuals 
 will approach and asked to be hired. These people can give bonuses to a ship or a planet that they 
 are assigned to. They are equivalent to the heroes of Master of Magic, and can sway the balance 
 of a battle, enhancing the damage and accuracy of your ship-based weapons.
  
  Graphics still hold up reasonably well for a game released during the Clinton Administration. Although 
 the resolution cannot be adjusted, most of the pictures were hand-drawn, so they have a crispness 
 that purely computer-generated graphics lose over time. The ships however look blocky and unimaginative. 
 Even though you can customize the name, size, and configuration of your ships, you are only given 
 a few choices for pictures by ship class.
  
  The turn-based ship combat system is relatively strageic. Weapon arcs must be taken into account, 
 or your battleship might be in trouble if another ship can get behind you. The AI is strong, and 
 presents a formidable challenge, going after your most vulnerable ships, can quickly slice you 
 up if you take it too lightly.
  
  Other Space 4X games such as Galactic Civilizations borrow heavily from this game, and one may 
 wonder if the game is in danger of becoming obsolete. No game (including Master of Orion 3) has 
 managed to lodge it from its alcove on my hard drive, and I dont think one will for a long while.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: atlascott
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 1, 2004 5:20 pm PT
Review:  I found this game in its Macintosh version in about 1998. My brother and I were hooked from the 
 start, If you are a reasonably bright person, you will not find this game overly complex. This 
 incredible, deep and fun game can be had for 10 or 15 bucks and is the best money a strategy gamer 
 can spend. It is better than SimCity, the Civilization games, and its closest cousin in terms of 
 gameplay would probably be Medieval: Total War. I say this because the Macro scale of running the 
 empire is turn based. But when combat begins, while it is also turn based, it is intimately in 
 the player's control.
  
  The sound is fun and cute. Th graphics are dated -- but I invite you to look at what the Master of 
 Orion III team turned out, and ask -- are these worse or better?
  
  The gameplay is addictive and fun, and has that 'one more turn' vibe like no other game.
  
 
  In all, this may be my favorite strategy game of all time, and perhaps deserves consideration 
 as best game of all time, period, in its balance, replayability, and sheer fun. I have also found 
 the stability issues to be greatly exagerrated, especially is you apply the patch.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
