-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Master Rallye
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/masterrallye/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  4, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 7.2, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 45 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microids
Developer: Steel Monkeys
Genre: Rally / Offroad Racing
Date:     Apr 17, 2002
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Master Rallye is an entertaining trucking thrill ride that walks a fine line between a realistic 
 rally title and a wild 4x4 off-road racer. 

 Formerly one of PC racing's quietest subgenres, rallying has experienced tremendous growth since 
 the turn of the millennium. With star performers such as EA Sports' Mobil 1 Rally Championship, 
 Codemasters' Colin McRae Rally 2.0, and Infogrames' Rally Masters continually ranking at or near 
 the top of the racing charts and grand newcomers such as Rally Trophy leading the way into the 
 future, rallying has quickly become one of the most intriguing vehicular disciplines on the PC. 
 Into these suddenly competitive surroundings wades the latest racing game from Microids, Master 
 Rallye. Differentiating itself from much of the rally crowd by virtue of its nonrestrictive routes, 
 wide-open environments, and head-to-head racing, Master Rallye is an entertaining trucking thrill 
 ride that walks a fine line between a realistic rally title and a wild 4x4 off-road racer such 
 as Codemasters' 1nsane. It exhibits many of the traits of a budget game, which it is at just $19.99, 
 yet it should appeal to anyone who believes rallying is more fun when conducted with other cars 
 and oodles of directional options.           Master Rallye doesn't confine you to desolate off-road 
 areas.    

  Based on its real-life namesake, Master Rallye takes its drivers on a journey through 42 locations 
 and a total of eight European and Asian countries. The game's competitions are conducted in a variety 
 of modes, including single-leg practice sessions, three-event quick races, three-event Rallye cups, 
 one-on-one challenges, and the full Master Rallye. In a quick race, you may vary the difficulty 
 level, select up to three opponents, or opt for a solo checkpoint race in which you must pass through 
 a series of gates on your way to the finish line. In all other modes, the number of competitors 
 is preset at three and racers may follow any path to the finish line. It is this last wrinkle that 
 makes the game as unique as it is.   

  Like Microsoft's Motocross Madness, Master Rallye unfolds in a series of sprawling and fully drivable 
 environments that are completely open to your interpretation. In other words, it doesn't matter 
 what route you take to the checkered flag, as long as you get there before the other guys. Indeed, 
 if the beaten path looks too tricky or too confining, it is perfectly legal to detour over the 
 untamed wilderness, up a nearby hill, or through the middle of that upcoming pond. But while certain 
 alternate off-road routes will cut precious seconds from your final time, others can spell disaster. 
 In fact, miscalculating the landscape may send you off the edge of a steep cliff or head-on into 
 a vertical rock face. Furthermore, the courses are generally designed to reward those who adhere 
 to the designated roadway and break from it only in certain situations. In this way, developer 
 Steel Monkeys has ensured that drivers will usually feel like part of a close-knit pack rather 
 than a lonely trailblazer.           Take detours over hills, or past ponds and lakes.    

  Fortunately, Master Rallye's artificially intelligent opposition is more geared toward avoiding 
 you than bouncing off your rear bumper. Though some collisions are unavoidable, the AI drivers 
 will generally recognize your presence, steer clear when the opportunity presents itself, and respond 
 to your actions. They also seem to be working under the same physics limitations that govern your 
 own ride, and they therefore rarely behave in superhuman or super-foolish fashion. As for your 
 own capabilities, Steel Monkeys' physics model is an appealing combination of simulation authenticity 
 and arcade fun that forces you to adopt the smoothness and skid control of a real rally racer without 
 taking on the taxing rigidity of the aforementioned Mobil 1. Part of this relative driving ease 
 can certainly be attributed to the game's vast, wide-open spaces, yet Master Rallye's forgiving 
 automobiles are also capable of ascending grades that would stop a real-life 4x4, maintaining grip 
 when all known laws of physics dictate otherwise, and surviving cataclysmic events that would destroy 
 any real-life vehicle.    

 Even so, the driving experience that Master Rallye offers is more challenging and realistic than 
 it is simplistic. You'll spend much of your time quickly shifting up and down for a given corner 
 or grade and twisting your wheel back and forth in varying increments to adjust for the spinning 
 tires and four-wheel drifts that only a true off-road experience can bring. You'll also want to 
 choose the correct vehicle beforehand. Master Rallye does not offer the motorcycles you'll find 
 in the real-world event, yet it does present a number of high-end production and esoteric four-wheelers 
 such as the Chevy Blazer, Tata Safari, and the Nissan Terrano II and X-Trail. Each features a unique 
 set of characteristics, the most valuable of which is "endurance." Essentially, a durable vehicle 
 is far less susceptible to damage and therefore far less susceptible to the performance degradation 
 such damage can produce. Sadly, visible damage is accrued so slowly that some drivers may never 
 even witness the game's lovely depictions of cracked windshields, bruised bumpers and deformed 
 bodywork.           Master Rallye is one of few rally games to accentuate head-to-head racing. 
    

  Nor does it allow you to access its entire roster of 4x4s until you've first proven yourself worthy 
 of such an honor. Indeed, Master Rallye keeps nearly all its vehicles, many of its circuits, and 
 all its major competitions under lock and key from the outset, thus forcing you to win one of its 
 many three-stage "cups" just to open up a new truck or circuit. Fortunately, the game is structured 
 so you won't be compelled to repeat given races ad nauseam in order to unlock the next element. 
 Therefore, if you've performed well in the first two stages but failed miserably in the third, 
 you'll need only to successfully reattempt the latter in order to win the cup and unlock your prize. 
 This feature will definitely seem like a real blessing for those who've grown accustomed to the 
 repetitive unlocking techniques required in so many other racing games.   

  Graphically, Master Rallye is by no means state of the art. Its vehicles are not nearly as well 
 defined as those found in Rally Trophy or Colin McRae 2.0, its major scenery elements are sparse, 
 and most every object seems a bit rough around the edges. However, the game environment is simply 
 so huge and so interesting that such oversights can be forgiven. You'll wind your way between massive 
 rock outcroppings, dive into twisting valleys and gorges, hurtle over a variety of humps and bumps, 
 tiptoe across one-lane bridges, and maneuver through cobblestone village streets. You'll generally 
 drive where you want in this massive world and see whatever delights happen to be perched there. 
 What's more, Steel Monkeys has situated its scenery in believable locations. Rather than placing 
 farms, industrial sites, or bodies of water directly in the line of vision, it has scattered them 
 about, often so that you'll catch only a glimpse as you motor by.           Tracks are sometimes 
 stark, but most are completely drivable.    

  Unfortunately, the economically priced Master Rallye simply isn't as professionally appointed as 
 many of its competitors, and is weaker because of it. The game's vehicles do not belch smoke, steam 
 or flames when in states of severe disrepair. Drivers do not have the luxury of a rear view mirror, 
 and the in-car perspective lacks a visible cockpit, dashboard and steering wheel. There are no 
 replays, and the off-track menu transitions are so painfully glacial that you might think the program 
 has frozen. Racing audio is limited to a variety of incidental environmental sounds such as tweeting 
 birds and roaring waterfalls and one of the most feeble engine notes of any racing game. Road noise, 
 crash, and mechanical effects are noticeably absent, as are the verbal prompts of a co-driver. 
 Instead, Steel Monkeys has fashioned a sequence of reasonably accurate visual cues warning of upcoming 
 surprises and hazards. Worse still, the onscreen admonitions of "wrong way" and "off course" are 
 sometimes incorrect.   

  The good news is that you just might be having too much fun to notice. As a single-player game, 
 there is much to like about Master Rallye. As a multiplayer game, there may be no better rallying 
 experience. We experimented with a full six-player field, and we found the frame rate smooth and 
 the fender-to-fender action and wide-open spaces both thrilling and intriguing. For a first-time 
 racing game from a relatively fresh-faced developer, Master Rallye is a versatile and unexpectedly 
 competent effort.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Sanidan
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 27, 2003 9:54 am PT
Review:  As much as I want to enjoy this game, especially with my kids, the slow framerates make it a painful 
 experience. I've never played any other rally or off-road games, and after reading Gamespot's reviews 
 of several, this seemed to be the choice for me. The publisher's minimum requirements and Gamespot's, 
 include 450 MHz and 266 MHZ, respectively. Sure my AMD K6-2 450 is decent for a lot of my titles, 
 but I felt that I'd make headway by investing in a 64MB GeForce. Seem's 450MHz, 256MB SDRAM, plenty 
 of HD, and 64MB VRAM is not enough to enjoy the game. The only mode I can play in is Quick Mode/Practice, 
 basically anything not involving other vehicles. I hate being forced to upgrade again just to enjoy 
 a fairly simple budget title. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
