-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Max Payne
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/maxpayne/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 27, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.2
Critic Score: 8.9, 49 Review (s)
User Score: 9.2, 6,269 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Gathering
Developer: Remedy Ent.
Genre: Modern Shooter
Date:     Jul 23, 2001
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's an outstanding and original action game that's not just different from all other shooters to 
 date, but also in many ways superior. 

 Created by Finnish developer Remedy Entertainment, Max Payne has been in production for a very long 
 time. It's a gritty third-person shooter that's clearly inspired by the stylish cinematography 
 and choreography of the Hong Kong action movie genre, particularly the work of director John Woo. 
 Like many of Woo's films, Max Payne is rife with gunplay that's almost indescribably beautiful 
 to watch -- and yet actually playing it is even better. Max Payne does have a few weaknesses, most 
 notably in that it isn't very long and lacks any multiplayer features -- but these things are hardly 
 detrimental. After all, it's not often you get an outstanding and original action game that's not 
 just different from all other shooters to date, but also in many ways superior.           The action 
 in Max Payne is dramatic, great-looking, and intense...    

 You play as the title character throughout the game. Max is a modern-day New York undercover cop 
 whose wife and baby daughter were brutally murdered and who has since been framed for a heinous 
 crime. Thus begins his blood-soaked battle to find the truth -- and to get revenge. The game has 
 many superlative qualities, but one of the best things about it is how it actually plays. It's 
 very easy to get into, as the control is smooth, simple, and responsive. You use the keyboard to 
 make Max run in any direction and use the mouse to aim your weapons. The game's third-person camera 
 perspective trails closely behind Max and gives a good sense of your surroundings, which is important 
 since you'll need to move carefully through the game's enemy-infested environments. By default, 
 the left mouse button fires your equipped weapons as rapidly as possible, while the right mouse 
 button triggers Max's "bullet time" special ability, which temporarily puts everything in slow 
 motion, as in a John Woo movie or the 1999 sci-fi hit,  The Matrix .   

  Bullet time is spectacular. The sounds of gunfire become muted and distant, and you hear a rush 
 of air and then the pounding of Max's heart -- and you'll invariably hold your own breath as all 
 this happens, because the effect is so well done. Bullet time isn't just for show -- it effectively 
 gives Max superhuman reflexes, as while all the action in the game is slowed, you can still aim 
 as quickly as you can move your mouse. Hence, bullet time lets you perform incredible feats of 
 marksmanship -- and, in combination with the movement keys, deadly acrobatic leaps in any direction. 
 This particular technique, called a "shootdodge," is the key to surviving most of the game's gunfights. 
 As you launch yourself through the air, you'll actually see the enemy's bullets (or shotgun pellets) 
 zing past you, even as you keep your weapons trained and firing on the enemy as you sail by. Bullet 
 time is a serious advantage, but you're limited to using it in small increments and thus can't 
 afford to use it unless you really need it. Not only does this make the game seem very well balanced -- especially 
 since taking out bad guys is how you replenish your bullet time -- but it also keeps the effect from 
 feeling too overused.   

  Max will brandish an impressive variety of highly authentic real-world weapons throughout the game, 
 including pistols, submachine guns, shotguns, sniper rifles, grenades, Molotov cocktails, and more. 
 He can carry as many weapons as he can get his hands on, though you'll have to keep track of your 
 ammunition reserves. There will always be plenty of bad guys around to soak up all your lead, so 
 you'll have to use your different weapons as strategically and as conservatively as possible. Besides, 
 Max is rather vulnerable -- a bullet in the head, let alone a grenade, can kill him. But he can unflinchingly 
 withstand relatively minor wounds. You can then completely recover the damage he's sustained by 
 using painkillers, which you'll find scattered about in desks and bathrooms and such.          
  ... and the story is well done, unusual, and involved.    

 These sorts of design decisions -- the fact that you can carry an entire arsenal and keep on shootdodging 
 even if you've been shot, as well as the fact that painkillers cure lead poisoning -- stand in sharp 
 contrast with the game's incredibly realistic appearance. But these aspects of the game are what 
 help make it so much fun. Max Payne isn't about fumbling for clips and putting tourniquets on wounds; 
 it's about finesse, style, and fast pacing. Because of how it plays and how well the settings of 
 the game are laid out, Max Payne's pacing is relentless (it really helps that the game's loading 
 times during missions are almost instantaneous) . Because of how it looks, its sense of style is 
 extraordinary. And because of how it controls, it's all about finesse. It's a game of pure, intense 
 action.   

  The game's story is almost as well done as the action itself -- and that's saying a lot to its credit. 
 The story unfolds partly through noninteractive sequences in the actual game engine, but mostly 
 by using still images that look like they came straight out of a graphic novel. These great-looking 
 comic-book-style cutscenes -- which you can tell use stylized photographs to depict the various characters 
 in the game -- detail an over-the-top crime story that's as confounding as it is engaging. Though 
 you'll see comic book captions on all the stills, all the dialogue is spoken as well. Max also 
 speaks quite a bit during the game itself. You might initially be taken aback by the rather forced 
 performances of all the actors, but in time, you'll find that the style is well suited to the theme 
 of the game and that Max's deadpan yet melodramatic delivery is particularly affecting. The distinct 
 look of the graphic novel imagery, the hammy voice acting, and the heavy-handed dialogue actually 
 all fit well together, and the story sequences are interspersed frequently and consistently enough 
 throughout the game that the story always remains important and intact. The story of Max Payne 
 has several noteworthy highlights and generally just twists and turns so much or just looks so 
 good that you'll no doubt enjoy the ride.    

 For years, Max Payne has looked great in what few screenshots Remedy has released of the work in 
 progress. The good news is that the game's visual quality completely lives up to the very high 
 expectations produced by the early press. No game to date has featured such sharp, starkly realistic 
 detail in its environments -- and the different environments in Max Payne not only look real, but 
 they also generally act real. You can manipulate most scenery objects in the game -- flush toilets, 
 turn on televisions, and so on -- and at the very least, you can shoot everything up real good. The 
 aftermath of a gun battle in Max Payne is often quite remarkable, as countless empty shell casings, 
 empty clips, bullet holes, debris, and dead bodies cover the scene. Much of the game takes place 
 in New York City's scummy parts, which have a deliberately unattractive, gloomy look about them. 
 You might wish there were more contrast overall, since the game's few sequences that take place 
 in more out-of-the-ordinary areas are especially good-looking and memorable.           There's 
 an impressive amount of detail in every environment.    

 Max Payne requires a fast PC, but if you have one, it'll run smoothly for you. The game's special 
 effects are gorgeous -- you'll quickly learn to distinguish one gun's bright, glowing muzzle flash 
 from another's. The effect of errant gunfire hitting glass and various other environmental objects 
 is completely convincing, and the game's lighting and fire effects are colorful and impressive. 
 The animation in Max Payne is also excellent for the most part, especially for Max, who is very 
 lifelike in everything he does and looks exactly like the great heroes of Hong Kong action cinema 
 as he shootdodges. Grenade explosions also produce spectacular results, as they send nearby bodies 
 careening head over heels through the air. But most of all, seeing bullets fly by in bullet time 
 is an incredible effect that never ceases to be thrilling.   

  Despite all this, if you really wanted to, you could still find some fault with the visuals in 
 Max Payne. For instance, though characters in the game have a few different facial expressions, 
 their faces aren't actually animated; and though you see blood where bullets hit flesh, you can't 
 see the damage on the actual character. Furthermore, polygonal clipping tends to occur when characters 
 get too close to each other (or to environmental objects) , and some of the character animation 
 during cutscenes can look a little awkward. The game's 3D geometry also isn't as complex as the 
 razor-sharp textures are; some of the characters and objects can look a bit blocky compared with 
 others. All these things are noticeable only because Max Payne otherwise looks so incredibly good -- these 
 scarce few elements are what prevent Max Payne from looking completely real, but they don't prevent 
 it from being easily one of the best-looking games to date. The game's use of sound is excellent 
 as well -- though enemy goons have a fairly limited variety of death knells, the game's weapon effects, 
 environmental sounds, and its intermittent use of music are all extremely well done.   

  Most of Max Payne necessarily revolves around shooting, though there are a few sequences that effectively 
 break up the action. Still, there isn't any significant variety in the types of foes you'll face -- whether 
 you're shooting gang members, hired guns, or crooked cops, you'll need to employ the same sorts 
 of tactics to succeed. Fortunately, all the bad guys in Max Payne do a great job. You can sometimes 
 sneak up on them before they notice you. In battle, they'll take cover when possible, they'll toss 
 grenades to flush you out or they'll flank you. They're consistently challenging and fun to fight, 
 and you'll find that their intelligent behavior will always keep you on your toes. Of further note, 
 the game uses a system that dynamically scales the difficulty of encounters depending on your performance. 
 You might not initially notice this, but you'll notice that though the fighting isn't easy, it 
 isn't impossible either.           Max Payne is filled with memorable moments.    

 A lot happens in Max Payne, and the fast pacing, constantly changing scenery, surprise encounters, 
 and no-nonsense action result in a game that's rich with detail and makes for plenty of good memories, 
 but isn't particularly long -- it should take you about 10 to 15 hours to finish. The game has no 
 multiplayer mode, but finishing it the first time does unlock additional new modes of play, including 
 one that's simply more difficult because it makes you more vulnerable and your enemies tougher. 
 Finishing this mode unlocks an even more difficult option that also limits the number of times 
 you can save your game in each level. The other extra mode, called New York Minute, makes you race 
 against the clock on every level. You have just one minute to finish each of the game's big stages, 
 and killing foes adds a few precious seconds to make this possible. The core game always remains 
 fundamentally the same despite these offshoot gameplay options; it's also a bit of a hassle that 
 you can't skip the in-engine cutscenes. Fortunately, the basic gameplay in Max Payne is plenty 
 enjoyable enough to justify spending a lot of time with the extra modes. The game also ships with 
 the Max-FX toolset, which players so inclined can use to create Max Payne levels and mods. Still, 
 despite these bonuses, many players will undoubtedly wish that the core game were even longer, 
 especially since it's so good.   

  When a game has been in development for an inordinate length of time, you never can tell how it 
 will finally turn out. Oftentimes, such games end up overwrought, incomplete, or behind the times. 
 But once in a while, the extra time and effort paid by the developers is plainly apparent in the 
 finished product. That's the case with Max Payne. Don't worry about what it doesn't have -- you'll 
 relish this highly polished, tightly focused, graphically stunning shooter for what it is. The 
 game's incredible technical accomplishments and its original play mechanics all combine to make 
 it one of the very finest shooters ever made.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (173 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: -Dark_Palladin-
Rating: 1.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 10:02 am PT
Review:  Pros and Cons:
  ---
  
  
  + Decent controls
  + Dodge time is fun to use.
  + Smooth mouse aim.
  
  
  - The easiest game I own.
  - Stupid A. I. make it even easier
 
  - Horrible looping cop siren sounds.
  - Empty, lackluster sound effects.
  - Graphics look absoulutly horrible, even in 2001.
  ---
  
  
  For the very first time, a 
 game involved 3D Realms in the development, has failed to impress me. The game really is just a 
 basic third-person gta shooter set in the old ganster times and nothing more. With that said, it 
 roughly sums up to one of the worst thrid-person shooters out there.
  
  
  
  Max Payne opens with the main character, whose name is actually Max Payne. After coming home to 
 find his poorly textured house wrecked and smashed by some annoymous gangsters, he also realizes 
 that his poorly texture wife and baby have also been killed. As an undercover cop, he immeditatly 
 decides to get even, to get revenge on whoever did this to him. Not only is that a pretty lame 
 storyline, but it also a put into a pretty lame presentation. Its never explained how a cop comes 
 home to find his family murdered for no really good reason and then forgets about his job as a 
 cop and go on a violent manhunt to get revenge is supposed to be such a thrilling story.
  
  
  There's no way to compare the gameplay to other games. You get a third-person perspective, 
 a few guns like pistols or shotguns and that's it. Basically, you run Max around New York City, 
 take down some bad guys in an area, and find a switch or door to open and move on. Max has the 
 ability to dodge jump as well. With the click of a button, Max can jump foward and slow down time 
 for a better reaction window. You can dodge jump as many times you like, but you usually won't 
 have to because the AI is so stupid and simply content to stand in one place. The mouse and keyboard 
 are both so smooth that any experianced player could manage to pull off a headshot EVERY time you 
 kill an enemy. Sure, its fun gameplay, but its also unbelievably easy.
  
  
  Of course, even though the gameplay is not too into it, Max Payne has to have good graphics for 
 a 2001 game? There are 1990 games, streching from Doom to Blood to Duke Nukem and Heritic that 
 have better graphics that Max Payne. The character models have absoulutly no fingers on their hands. 
 Not even black lines are shown on people's hands, protraying like their fingers got surgically 
 removed or something. Max's face is hideously bad, and he is always smiling with his eyes open, 
 even when he's dead. The enemies have their eyes shut and their jaw sagging, almost like their 
 sleeping. The New York City looks like dozens of clay models for the buildings, and it just looks 
 so horrible.
  
  
  
  The sound basically copies and pastes exactly what I said about the graphics. Sounds are mushy 
 and difficult to make out. Sometimes when Max runs for a long time, the sound of his footsteps 
 suddenly stop and don't start again until you stop and start walking again. Max Payne sometimes 
 blurts out "what the hell?" when you don't even know what's so bad. The list of issues could go 
 on forever. Its hilarious for one fact that the developers couldn't even get Max's footstep sound 
 to loop for more than 10 seconds. Its a whole other hysterical error for the siern sound of a cop 
 car in a particular level to loop and hiccup every time it loops. Even the orginal doom had hicupless 
 loop sounds and Max Payne couldn't do it roughly 5 years later.
  
  
  The only thing I can safely say good about this game without hating myself is that its fun. Fun 
 and easy. And that assuming you can deal with the numberous graphical glitches and bugs. You probably 
 could for a few minutes, but don't press your luck; Max Payne is easily one of the worst shooters 
 out there. Max Payne is Payneful to Play.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altair_666
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2009 3:34 pm PT
Review:  This game has an excellent story, told in a very cool way doing it very original in comparison 
 with another games.
  Gameplay can be a little repetitive for some players. but remember this is a tps (third person 
 shooter) so it mus be like that: shooting until you reach the next level.
  
  And if you think just shooting is boring and dumb, check out the bullettime in this amazing game.
 
  
  And what the hell is bullettime?... Well, bullettime is a very f***** cool feature in this game. 
 Bullettime is the same thing as the matrix effect. But Max Payne used it first than Neo xD
  
  Finally I have to say something I didn't like in this game and it was Max's magic pockets: 
 Where the hell in the name of god did he get such an arsenal like that?... Unrealistic isn't it?
 
  
  
  Okay, that'll be all... Can't wait for Max Payne 3... s***t xD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rohitmitra5752
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2009 7:53 am PT
Review:  Max Payne is a classic game with a story line backing that very few games can match up to. The 
 various aspects of the game like sound, graphics and gameplay are what makes max payne a top of 
 the line FPS game.
  
  1. Story - A cop whose family has been murdered goes undercover to find out the truth behind the 
 killings only to get entangled in a deadly trap of being accused of murdering a cop. Such a powerful 
 storyline was all that was needed to shoot max payne up to the levels of a milestone game.
  
  2. Sound - The music and the foley effects were astonishingly remarkable. The title music of 
 Max Payne was unmathced till Halo CE came along. Every sound effect ranging from footsteps to bullet 
 sounds to the breaking of molotov bottles was unique.
  
  3. Graphics - The graphics of Max Payne is a bit outmoded for the day and even for it's time. However 
 it is not a bad experience playing the game. For me, the only letdown was a Max smiling all throughout 
 the game, even while looking at the dead body of his wife.
  
  4. Gameplay - The gameplay of Max Payne is one of it's kind. With bullet time and Shoot Dodge Max 
 Payne changed the outlook of the FPS gaming industry. With a graphic mode of telling the story 
 instead of the usual cutscenes, Max Payne truly created a milestone in gaming ideas.
  
  Finally, Max Payne is a game no one should miss out on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryu_San
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  Like in many other forms of art, videogame creators look up to other mediums as a means of finding 
 inspiration. Classical themes and codes are often replicated in videogames, whether in terms of 
 story, art or cut-scene direction, or even gameplay. Not always have these transitions been successful, 
 but sometimes, they work, they really, really work; "Max Payne" is one of those cases. Now, "Max 
 Payne" is not an adaptation "per se", but it's a clever homage to a number of art forms, and especially 
 to a genre: the Noir. "Max Payne" can be described as an interactive cinematic action noir graphic 
 novel. Sounds complicated, right? Let me Explain.
  
  From the get-go any player will understand that "Max Payne" isn't an ordinary game: the initial 
 cut-scene renders a dark NY, stricken with the storm of the century, wind and snow ablaze; behind 
 a cacophony of helicopters, ambulances and police-sirens, a low-toned, hoarse voice slowly mutters 
 the words: "They were all dead. The final gunshot was an exclamation mark on everything that had 
 led to this point. I released my finger from the trigger, and it was over." Meet "Max Payne", a 
 worn-out, gloomy police-officer whose wife and daughter were murdered by a group of over-drugged 
 junkies; his purpose in life? To kill everyone connected to that murder. Like any hard boiled novel 
 cop, he is a man stricken with guilt and regret, his past a mystery, and his objectives are not 
 pure. Max's journey will unveil a corrupt society, where crime and power go hand in hand, where 
 love and hate go side by side and where vengeance and justice are two faces of the same coin. As 
 he himself puts it "I had taken on the role of the mythic detective: Bogart as Marlowe, or as 
 Sam Spade going after the Maltese Falcon. To unravel all the mysteries, following a path of clues 
 to that final revelation, even if it would take me down to the cold, cavernous depths of a grave."
 
  
  The plot develops through a series of live-action stills, with hand drawn coloring and drawings 
 on top to resemble graphic novel vignettes. Speech bubbles show the dialogs, while at the same 
 time voice actors read them, with that over the top, fatalist tone that so well complements noir 
 stories. These dialogs are extremely well written, filled with metaphors, hyperboles, allegories 
 and a cynical overtone that engulfs nearly all sentences even that creepy post-modern humor makes 
 an appearance. The moody and sad undertone of the soundtrack is the icing of the cake: the cold 
 sound of a bleeding cello gives a whole new level to Max's emotional pain. Everything in "Max Payne" 
 feels like a tribute to "Noir" films and novels, a tribute to Eisner, Miller, Wilder and Ellroy; 
 its dark aesthetic and literary influences leave no doubt: "Max Payne" is the first interactive 
 Film-Noir.
  
  But, a good narrative isn't enough to make a good game, gameplay is also a factor, and even there 
 "Max Payne" is brilliant. The action bulk of the game is perceived in the 3rd person shooter angle, 
 with a "bullet-time" mechanic (Matrix style) allowing the player to slow down time, dodging incoming 
 bullets while aiming at the opponents' heads to blast them to kingdom come. Even from a technical 
 point of view this was revolutionary at the time, for the bullets' trajectories were calculated 
 in real time, with the shooter's momentum interfering on the path they took. But the level-design 
 is what truly made this shine; levels were correctly paced, with action sequences followed by adventure 
 and plot elements in the right proportion, thus avoiding the shooting-overload-sickness most action 
 games go for. Max Payne's formula is so downright perfect, that no game to this day has nailed 
 the "bullet-time" style gameplay on the same level (except its sequel) ; "Enter the Matrix" was 
 shallow at best, and the recent "Stranglehold" is absent of any thought level design choices, making 
 it the shooter equivalent of a "hack and slash".
  
  Games don't get any better than "Max Payne", its smart narrative, audacious aesthetic and its perfect 
 gameplay all come together in one solid game. Its so damn good, I would never have imagined there 
 would ever be a sequel, let alone, one that actually improves on its predecessor but that is a 
 tale for another time. "Max Payne" is a beautifully told noir novel that could have been written 
 in any other medium, and still be brilliant; a novel that demands the rightful statute of Art. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CPLICEHOLE
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  I played this game when it first came out. Being a huge FPS fan, I was a little worried about the 
 third person view point, but was I pleasantly surprised! It is simple to learn the controls and 
 adapt to the way the game is set up.
  
  The game has a lot of depth and the story line is incredible. You actually begin to identify with 
 Max and his issues. The creep factor plays in many times as Max fights not only his foe, but his 
 inner demons. The slow motion "Bullet Time" is a hoot every time you use it! I would replay stages 
 of the game many times just to us it over and over in different angles to see the outcome.
  
  Each level of the game draws you further into the story and you keep playing to exhaustion 
 just to find out what is going to happen next. The voice acting, graphics and sound are great for 
 the year this game arrived on the market. I must have played it two or three time until the second 
 part came out. It is just that good.
  
  I still have yet to figure out a way to make it work on my new Vista rig, but hopefully I can find 
 a patch or mod out there that actually works.
  If you're running XP, pick up this game. I am a tuff audience to please when it comes to shooters, 
 and this one delivers on the promise!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KronosIII
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  The game is just amazing. Its the bad ass feeling of duke nukem with a sick ass story of a movie. 
 I played this when it came out, then I played it again because the movie was coming out. And honestly 
 it ages very well compared to other games. 
  
  The scenes where he has his nightmares are maybe the most chilling feeling you can get in a game. 
 Hearing nothing but a women crying and a baby crying. Losing what he loves only made him a stronger 
 and more bad ass character. To date he can even make Master Chief and many other modern heroes 
 cringe at what he went through and what he can do. It is only one man against almost impossible 
 odds looking for revenge.
  
  The game plays very smooth with a few glitches that you have to love. One of them is waiting at 
 a double swing door with a bat and knocking the foe through the door. Since you are blocked by 
 the door you can't get shot, and they can't walk through. Which means swing away.
  
  It's a game that is modeled from action movies, and now it has it's own action movie. It is a must 
 play game if you are into shooters. And even if you don't like shooters you will be sucked into 
 the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doogz23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Max Payne comes home to a massacre at his house. He sets out on the hunt for the culprit (s) and 
 a twisting plot evolves from here. You'll visit multiple locations both indoors and outdoors. Enjoy 
 a story told in comic book fashion throughout this exciting shooter.
  Run and Gun! This may be the most simple way to put the gameplay. I know, you don't want to hear 
 it. But it's true. The 3rd person perspective control you have of Max Payne works very well with 
 the slo-mo action and fast paced enemies. When you think you've cleared a room there's another 
 guy on the way or just around the corner. It keeps you on your toes and with the slo-mo action 
 you can stay alive long enough to enjoy it.
  
  Graphics:
  A very typical look for the modern early 2000-06 games found on PS2 and XBOX. A few key notes would 
 be the weather effects outside, blood splatter, interaction with miscellaneous items and, of course, 
 the slo-mo action!
  
  Sound:
  Overall great ambiance, sound effects and voice acting. The voice acting i found to be superb minus 
 a few questionables but these were far and few between. Especially after reading through the credits 
 you'll see voice actors covering multiple characters. The sound effects of gunfire, chatting, and 
 footsteps played a great role in the feel of the game. It plays a vital role in how you react in 
 the game. My only complaint regarding the sound was occasional volume differences in the cutscenes. 
 The voice volume would be low on one screen and high on the next. (Possibly a port issue or conflict 
 with OS?)
  
  Value:
  Unlockable difficulties; including a timed version, could keep you at this a few times.
  
  
 Tilt:
  With a sequel out and a movie on the way what's holding you back? It's a budget title, great story 
 and other elements of the Max Payne world are readily available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scatsofrango
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2008 6:15 am PT
Review:  Max Payne was a huge success, and I finally got the time to finish it. I own it for a long time, 
 Ive even finished Max Payne 2, but I was saving this one to the end.
  I wont talk about graphics or sound issues, because it wouldnt be fair (When it was released 
 it was one of the tops, now it has medium graphics and effects) , but what mostly lights me up is 
 the solid story.
  Max Payne had his wife and baby child murdered by addicted people, and months after one of his 
 investigations led him to the chase of murderers. The story tells about a drug, named V, wich made 
 part of a secret plan of government during gulf war to make super soldiers.
  Max should open his way trought many kinds of buildings, killing the thugs and mercs all the way 
 up to the villain, the owner of a mighty corporation.
  Another positive point of this shooter is the accurate presentation of hand guns, from berettas 
 and desert eagles to Colt Commando and Ingrams, including hand granades, molotov cocktails and 
 many kinds of shot guns. The weapon I liked the most was a sharp shooter rifle, but the magnification 
 should be better in my opinion.
  The bullet time effect helps against strong enemies: All enemies and environment goes on slow motion 
 cam, while you move and jump always firing against them.
  Just to finish, even this one is outdated, its worthy a playing, after this one just play Max Payne 
 2, and wait anxiously fot the next one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedrugsman
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 27, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  Nothing is perfect, but this game represents cutting-edge concepts for its' time, and the weenies 
 who give it less than 9.0 are out of line, so I am out of line in the other direction to neutralize 
 them.
  
  Excellent graphics, the innovative 'Bullet Time', and a tongue-in-cheek film-noir script make this 
 stupendous!
  
  I am not usually a fan of shooter games, just because we US citizens kill too many of each other 
 every year anyway, so I think the theme is generally in bad taste. Canadians have 10 Million households 
 and 7 Million guns, but they kill each other at at surprisingly low rate compared to the US. I 
 don't blame shooter games (or Maryilyn Manson) for US shootings, as the press is wont to do, but 
 I just don't usually like the theme.
  
  This game is somewhat different. It's a gritty detective story, and you incidentally have to shoot 
 your way through it. It's as much strategy as it is shooter, because you can easily run out of 
 resources if you don't plan ahead. Balancing your ammo and your available Bullet Time are critical 
 to moving ahead in the game, and you want to, because the story is interesting.
  
  This one set the stage, and I will soon be plowing into Max Payne 2. If you haven't done so, you 
 should try it for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxPayne928
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  One of the most important games of this time will probably be known as Max Payne. A title for the 
 PC that included elements from John Woo films and The Matrix. This bloody, stylish, Death Wish-esque 
 game took a long time making, but it was always worth the wait - a name that derives from my namesake 
 - Max Payne.
  
  
  Story (10/10) :
  "To make any kind of sense of it, I'll need to go back three years - back to the night the pain 
 started." This game is about a an ex-cop named Max Payne, whose family was killed by drug addicts 
 three years ago. Then, in 2001, Payne is working for the DEA, going undercover in the New York 
 City Mafia. But he's framed for the murder of his best friend, so he decides to go after the source 
 - the Mafia. But Payne learns that there's more than the Mafia, and the government's involved. 
 He's fighting an empire of evil - no easy task for a murderous vigilante, but he'll manage. Probably 
 the most stylish thing about the plot is the graphic novel scenes the game is presented in. These 
 graphics use live-action, still-shot photos with comic-book word and think bubbles, complete with 
 voice-over and sound effects. This is one of the best parts about the game, the story - can't say 
 the same for the movie.
  
  
  Gameplay (10/10) :
  The most important part of any game - the gameplay. The best aspect of the game is the bullet-time, 
 which allows the player to slow down time while being able to easily kill enemies. Is this realistic? 
 Possibly, as the game's explanation is that bullet-time begins when Payne is confronted with a 
 life-and-death situation, and time slows down. The gunplay itself is even better. Standard FPS 
 controls, but from a third-person perspective. Easy to use, nothing complicated. There's plenty 
 of guns, and lots of fights to use them in. Painkillers will refill your health - not terribly 
 realistic, but better than looking for a lot of health packs. All in all, the gunplay and gameplay 
 is fantastic.
  
  
  Graphics (10/10) :
  People always wonder, since this game took so long to make, does it look any good? The answer is, 
 yes. It's one of the best looking games up to this day. The gunfire, blood, and overall look of 
 the game is great. Enviroments are completely destructible, and can all be shot to hell and back, 
 with the bullet-holes remain in the surface. The most problematic part of the graphics is probably 
 the clipping. Due to the canned animations, which still look excellent, clipping happens often. 
 Not a huge problem, but still - clipping bothers me.
  
  
  Sound (10/10) :
  The sound of this game compliments everything else. The voice-acting sounds like a noir film, with 
 Payne's deadpan monologue fitting in perfectly. The rest of the voice-acting is all solid, though 
 sometimes feels like the actors are overacting. The sound effects, like guns, explosions, and just 
 about everything else is all wonderfully done.
  
  
  Fun Factor (10/10) :
  There's plenty of fun to have here. There are multiple difficulty levels, the problem is that the 
 game is about 8-10 hours long. Pretty short, even for an action game.
  
  
  Replay Value (9.5/10) :
  It's a fun ride - one you'll want to play multiple times, and there are 
 multiple difficulty levels, but like I said, it's too short, and can feel pretty easy at times. 
 But all in all, still highly playable.
  
  
  Final Thoughts:
  If I got my name from this game, it's gott have value. Max Payne is not one to miss.
  
  
 
  FINAL SCORE:
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ayasdutta
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne is a game which will immediatly entrap you with its amazing storyline and gameplay and 
 even more importantly , the perfect coordination between the two... Even after so many years of 
 its release ,Max Payne is one of those games which are unique in themselves and arent made out 
 of inspiration from any other movie/game.. However most of the people would say that the game's 
 important gameplay aspect i. e bullet time is inspired from matrix...... that is entirely wrong. 
 Because the bullet time is much much better.. Sam Lake has done an amazing job with the script. 
 You can almost feel Max Payne around you when you read those awesomely formulated dialouges. The 
 music is well suited to the game's different levels and is gritty . The characterisation of Max 
 Payne has been perfect as well as the role of other characters in the story is satisfying . It 
 is strongly suggested for everyone to play the game atleast once cuz if you dont then you are missing 
 a big deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toomsuba2
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 1, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Before we start the review, I'd like to say that this is an 08' review. 
  
  Max Payne can be fun. The graphics are good, I'd give em 8.8/10. You can't skip cutscenes, which 
 sucks, and in some levels, it was so dark I couldn't see. Furthermore, all the enemies are the 
 same and the AI do 3 things: Shoot, walk 2 feet away from where they were, and talk when they don't 
 know you're there. Also, half the time you kill an enemy, you get a close-up, slow-mo view of them 
 flying through the air dying. It takes FOREVER! Also, the game features bullet time, but its to 
 slow, its like you move a foot in 3 seconds. Its waaaaaaaaaaaaaaaay to slow. And the screen doesn't 
 change colors, and guns firing don't sound different. If you're buying this game because of the 
 bullet time, go buy F. E. A. R. The story really isn't that great. Its basically John Woo's Hard-Boiled 
 type story, and its not very important. You don't get enough bullet time either. All the environments 
 look linear, gloomy, and dreary. They're worse than F. E. A. R.'s. You don't get backup, which pissed 
 me off a lot. The game is to hard, and I personally don't like it. Maybe its just me though.... who 
 knows. And the worst part: No multiplayer!!!!!! The only reason I give this a 7 is because sometimes, 
 just sometimes, it can be fun to play. (Take only in small doses) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  so, i played that game like 6 years ago and i played that at a friend yesterday and the game was 
 still so fun!! what can i say?
  
  graphics: ok so max payne.. is not so good in graphics i mean its working with diractx 8 and thats 
 not good at all if the game was with a better graphic i could giving the game a 10
  
  sounds: great sounds and great voice acting of max payne the sounds are really good i most like 
 the great voice acting of max payne sounds really good and give the game some life when you play 
 the story of max payne
  
  gameplay: YEAH!! the gameplay is awesome the game is so fun, great slow-mo and lots of non-stop 
 shooting the gameplay is fun no metter what you do...
  
  story: the game has a really good story.."you are max payne who working for NYPD the russian mafia 
 have killed your family and now your out for some revenge" so thats the story and its very good... 
 i enjoyd playing this great story
  
  Max Payne Is really good game and you can also play it with modes.. like.. i use KUNG FU 3.0 mod 
 that make the game even better.. but still if or without modes the game is great and worth playing 
 and even worth buying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nik_cscz
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  Max Payne is a game which will immediatly entrap you with its amazing storyline and gameplay and 
 even more importantly , the perfect coordination between the two... Even after so many years of 
 its release ,Max Payne is one of those games which are unique in themselves and arent made out 
 of inspiration from any other movie/game.. However most of the people would say that the game's 
 important gameplay aspect i. e bullet time is inspired from matrix...... that is entirely wrong. 
 Because the bullet time is much much better.. Sam Lake has done an amazing job with the script. 
 You can almost feel Max Payne around you when you read those awesomely formulated dialouges. The 
 music is well suited to the game's different levels and is gritty . The characterisation of Max 
 Payne has been perfect as well as the role of other characters in the story is satisfying . It 
 is strongly suggested for everyone to play the game atleast once cuz if you dont then you are missing 
 a big deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjp15
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 6, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne has you playing as a cop whose family was murdered.
  
  The gameplay is that of a third person shooter, but max payne is the game that made Bullet time 
 fun. You can diver through the air shooting any body in your way all while travelling slower than 
 normal. Sure it sounds a little bit gimmicky but once you start playing you realise that it is 
 much more than just a gimmick.
  
  The characters are another great point of the game as most of them help to draw you into the game. 
 The story is mainly told through comic book style screens consisting of several panels narrated 
 by the voice actors. It sounds like laziness but actually works extremely well with the game. There 
 are a few in game cutscenes that don't work as well but are still nice so they do not detract from 
 the overall experience.
  
  The audio is also phenomenal, you can almost feel the bullets whizzing by your face as you enter 
 new rooms filled with enemies. While in Bullet time even the sound effects slow down creating a 
 very cool effect.
  
  The only problem I have with the game is that during the later levels of the game you come to depend 
 to much on the bullet time making it almost impossible to beat the game without using it.
  
  But these problems are minor and do not really affect this amazing game. Amazing storyline, 
 characters, sound effects and gameplay make Max Payne the best third person shooter ever made. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SYdoggXxX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Here's a game that no one should let slip by. Forget the fact that it's nearly a decade old, this 
 is a modern classic that will satisfy anyone with a thirst for action and great storytelling. Max 
 Payne delivers the thrill of "bullet-time" along with a convoluted, yet memorable graphic novel.
 
  
  Max Payne is a third person shooter that tells the story of... Max Payne (duh) , a New York cop 
 who's living the American dream with his wife and baby daughter, until one day everything turns 
 sour as Max arrives home to find them both brutally murdered. Max is not only left with the agonizing 
 pain of the tragedy, but also with little clues about who committed the crime. As if that weren't 
 enough, Max is also framed with a crime he didn't commit, and now his quest will focus not only 
 on finding those responsible for the murder of his family, but also the ones behind the crime he's 
 being held responsible for, who unsurprisingly, are very closely related. There will be plenty 
 of twists and turns along the way, and at times it will be difficult to keep track of who you're 
 going after, but the story is told with plenty of style and always gives you a clear sense of purpose.
 
  
  The story is told in graphic novel style, not unlike most comic books, and not only does this give 
 it a unique feel, it also keeps it more in line with most of the game's over the top dialogue. 
 At times the dialogue can feel a bit cheesy (Max's reaction to his family's death is certainly 
 goofy) , but as the game goes on it grows on you and eventually you'll fall in love with it. It 
 also helps that there's some legit humor thrown in the way. At the times the game will acknowledge 
 or even mock itself, such as during one dream sequence of Max, where he describes the feeling of 
 being trapped in a graphic novel or a computer game as "horrible". The humor also shows up in most 
 of the "cutscenes" (though cutscene is not really an appropriate name for them) , as well as in 
 some funny conversations between enemy guards, not unlike in Monolith's No One Lives Forever. It's 
 too bad that there are very few of this funny conversations scattered through the game as they're 
 legitimately funny and give the thugs a bit of personality.
  
  And if the storytelling is great, the action is even better. Max Payne was the game that introduced 
 the concept of "bullet time" (which has now been copied to death) , and it's this element that elevates 
 the shooting in the game from great, to legendary. Bullet Time essentially slows down time, giving 
 you a better chance to dodge incoming bullets as well as shoot more accurately. Not only is this 
 effect insanely cool, it's almost a necessity in many of the game's bigger firefights. The game 
 does a very good job of implementing this concept without unbalancing the combat in your favor. 
 You have a bullet time meter that slowly depletes as you enter bullet time, and in order to refill 
 it you most kill enemies the hard way, so it's likely that you'll want to keep your meter mostly 
 filled should a big firefight await, which in turn makes you carefully think your combat strategy.
 
  
  Max Payne is essentially a series of thrilling shooting sequences laid out one after the other, 
 but on a few levels the game will throw you in a different situation, such as dream sequences or 
 maze like environments. While this sections do change the pace, they're not exactly enjoyable. 
 The dream sequences in particular feature parts where as you struggle to find the right path you 
 can easily fall off the edge towards an instant death. Rather than keeping the gameplay fresh, 
 this sections only add some unnecessary frustration. Fortunately those sections are fairly short 
 and only show up on two or three occasions, so they're definitely no deal breakers.
  
  The graphical presentation of Max Payne is superb. The game does a tremendous job of capturing 
 the gritty visuals of modern New York. The environments are heavily detailed, and despite the grim 
 look, they're easy on the eyes. Also, Max Payne was one of the first games to feature relatively 
 destructible environments, something that elevates the level of immersion, since rooms that have 
 been host to a firefight will be filled with bullet holes, as well as torn up objects. The sound 
 is also superb. Every weapon in the game's arsenal sounds appropriately powerful and the sounds 
 during "bullet time" are even more amazing. As mentioned before, the voice acting can be somewhat 
 cheesy, but it does the job alright. The game's soundtrack is also pretty damn good, as it elevates 
 the tension during most gunfights.
  
  Max Payne is a modern classic, a game that everyone should enjoy. It's been the source of inspiration 
 for many latter games (some great, others not so much) , but as usual, the original always stands 
 out. If you like thrilling gunplay and great storytelling, you'll find just that in Max Payne. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_luz_10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 11:14 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne is about a cop who has his family slaughtered in his own home, and now... he's pissed. 
 While investigating a lead your partner gets killed and Max is set up to take the fall. So how 
 do you solve these problems? Shoot first, ask questions later.
  
  *Gameplay* - Max Payne featured some awesome gun play. You can carry dozens of weapons at a time 
 which makes it easy at times, but that variety of guns is fun to have when you hit "bullet time" 
 and slow things down and start blowing people away.
  
  *Story* - This is what separates Max Payne from the third person genre and shooter genre in general. 
 Its story is so dark and mature, and presented so uniquely. The voice fits Max Payne's character 
 extremely well. Max Payne was suppose to be that guy that has nothing left to lose, and nothing 
 to gain, and in that constant struggle to find some sort of gratification, only to be thrown down 
 harder and kicked even more. And the story and voice terrifically showcases it. Cutscenes are presented 
 like a comic book, and have a somewhat blurry and scratchy shader texture to the artwork. There 
 are two "dream" levels in between chapters that add that "odd" feeling to your hellish nightmare.
 
  
  And with a good single player length, multiple difficulties and challenges you'll have a great 
 time enjoying this game.
  
  *Graphics* - Well its been so long (6 years) I can't say after playing all the games today that 
 they are groundbreaking, but they looked good for 2001 when I believe that was still DX8 being 
 used.
  
  *Final Thoughts* - Max Payne's storyline is very good. This game was very overlooked because it 
 was made in the "Matrix movie era" and of course after those movies came out "bullet time" was 
 in almost every movie and game. So it's understandable that people probably saw that and said "great, 
 another Matrix rip off" and avoided Max Payne. Max Payne is a very good game that packs a very 
 unique, mature, and gritty storyline as well as great gameplay and tons of weapons to choose from.
 
  
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wotansspawn88
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 26, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  I bought this for about a tenner (around $20) as I was bored and needed a game to fill up my time 
 off from college on study leave. The game manual and box was very well presented.
  
  I was expecting your average shooter but what I got was an amazing and immersive game. Max Payne 
 could be described as "Game Noir", and features many homages to the "Film Noir" genre. Max Payne 
 is tough violent and completely out of his mind, the perfect character.
  
  Although I thing the game would have been better as a film I thing it certainly makes for a brilliant 
 videogame.
  
  The game features a large cast of twisted, sinister and thuggish characters most of which you get 
 to take down with a variety of powerful and interesting weapons. 
  
  If you like a good well thought out plot with plenty of characters and fairly decent gameplay to 
 go along with it then this is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cenneli
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Glint of reviews on Max Payne has made the game for me one of the must-try ones. After a very few 
 moments I understood a reason of the huge appreciation. Max Payne is a character with extreme sorrow 
 of losing his wife in a raid of weird gangs to his house. The whole game continues with his attempts 
 to solve the mystery of the raid and slowly but dazzling revelation of the puzzle in the very deep 
 structure of relations between mafia and state. The film quality of the storyline is very successfully 
 embedded in game playing as well. Shooting, bombing, raiding, etc. very uniquely accompany with 
 the developments of the scenario. For instance, even in flashbacks you play the character that 
 very interestingly leads to the feeling and understanding of the motivations underlying key events. 
 My only critic is about the opponents' poor intelligence that seriously reduces the reality side 
 of the game. Nevertheless, I strongly recommend Max Payne to anyone because game accomplishes to 
 provide the sense of being a character, not just playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lethalscorpion
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  NOTE: This review may contain spoilers.
  
  If Max Payne was an action movie, it would be one of my favorite movies. And if it was a comic book, it 
 wpold be my favorite comic book. Max Payne gets your adrelaniline rushing through your vains at 
 full speed. There is no mission in game that would be boring, no racing crap, no chasing ,just pure 
 action. ACTION BABY!!! Max found his wife and his kid dead one day and he starts going after the 
 guys who got something to do with it .. And you gotta love Max Payne's nightmares when he ius passed 
 out.
  
  First part of Max Payne is easy. Opponents are easy to beat and shoot **** guns at you.
  
  **** 
 gets rough at the second part where you gotta have some kind of supernatural firewalking powers. The 
 whole place blasts in flames room after room and I got confused at this point and downloaded a 
 save game for this mission.
  
  Then come the masked guys with Colt Commandos, and trust me - they hurt man ! But if you're faster 
 than them then they are no match.
  
  Ending of the game was kind of the same as GTA3 cuz you destroy a helicopter just like in GTAIII
 
  
  Comic strip style cutscenews are kinda cool but I prefer video clip style cutscenes like GTA, True 
 Crime, Mafia, GUIN etc.
  
  I like the humor in Max Payne. Sometimes you hear hillarious conversations between mobsters. I think 
 the 2 guys who discussed how to deactivate ( or activate, i don't remember) the bomb and then blow 
 themselves up deserve a Darwin award.
  
  Guns in Max Payne are cool and quite realistic. Click-clack BOOM ! Blow a **** away.
  
  Graphics 
 are very dark and sometimes it's hard to see and you can get lost easily, even with your brightness 
 and sharpness settings up.
  
  Sound is good, sometimes cool beat starts playing on the background when you're in action packed 
 situation. When you load a gun, it sounds like somebody else is loading a gun.
  
  One thing that disturbed me is that there is no black characters, all the mobsters, thugs and gangsta 
 **** are white.
  I am white but it is boring when all the characters are white.
  
  At the time when Max Payne was made, the Twin Towers were still up and during trhe final mission 
 when you get to the 2nd balcony, look a little to your right and you can see the World Trade Center 
 in its brilliance.
  
  Putting it all together. Great game, great story, great action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolchris330
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 24, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  Max Payne is a game especially designed not to be frustrating, but to be fun. The best part of 
 the entire game has got to be flying through the air, virtual wind in your face, your gun heats 
 and fires a lead bullet propelled right through the air and into your enemy, causing him to slump 
 to the ground. It's moments like this that make the innovative bullet time worthwhile, it also 
 makes the game a whole lot easier and the ability to jump through the air holding a sawed-off shotgun 
 is quite fun as well, as many games would not let you do. This is the game that gave the idea of 
 flying through the air, shooting guns to The Matrix.
  
  This has got to be one of my favourite games because of all these point
  
  Now for the cons
 
  
  The dream sequence at the beggining, ugh. What's the point. They could have explained it verbally, 
 -.25 of a score. Puzzle elements actually get in the WAY of shooting, anyway, thanks GameFAQs. 
 -.25 of a score
  
  That brings me to the grand total of 9.5/10!
  
  Coolchris330 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamespottr
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 23, 2008 7:28 pm PT
Review:  I first played it in 2001, and I was blown away. If in any way, shape or form, you are longing 
 for some old and cheap (15 bucks on D2D for both MP and MP2) but a hell of an old, cheap game, 
 kiss those 15 bucks and the next couple of days good-bye. It stars Max Payne, who, without revealing 
 the plot, is a detective about to get into a hell from which there is no return (confused much?)
 
  
  First, it's a great shooter, thanks to the bullet time factor. Basically, while holding shift, 
 Max will jump in the direction you were running and time will slow down, allowing for better aiming. 
 In the bottom left-hand corner, there's a status bar for both Max and his bullet-time in the shape 
 of an hourglass. Every time bullet-time is engaged, it will start draining, but if it's a bullet-time 
 jump, it will go down to a predetermined level immediately. Every kill earns Max some more bullet 
 time. Of course, you can't have your cake and eat it too: After Max falls to the ground after a 
 short, ~5 second float through the air, he will have to get back on his feet (the sequel allows 
 him to finish off his clip on the ground) , which is can be dangerous, especially when some enemies 
 aren't down, and they are packing serious heat. 
  
  A shooter can't be great without some great "shooters", and "Max Payne" delivers... mostly. If 
 you're a bloodthirsty murderer who enjoys mowing down rows of enemies (or pedestrians, a la GTA) 
 for no reason, this isn't the game for you. There's enough weapons and great variety, but Max has 
 to start somewhere. He first has his trusty ol' Baretta, and lead pipe (?) which only proves useful 
 to hit small crates, no practical killing properties. Later, within the first 10 minutes, you'll 
 come in contact with the more-powerful, just-as-compact Desert Eagle and a Shotgun. By the end 
 of the game you will encounter over 15 (off-the-head) weapons; handguns, shotguns, automatics, 
 sniper, grenade and Molotov cocktails. 
  Of course, what use are all these weapons if they aren't any fun to shoot, but "Max Payne" has 
 you covered there. Every weapon has the correct weight, sound effect, shooting speed and recoil 
 that is normally attributed to said weapon. The only thing that comes to mind when "F***up" is 
 the bullet speed; no matter what range, be it 2 or 200 feet, the game takes almost a half second 
 to register the hit. It doesn't hinder the games great quality, but it does seem awkward, especially 
 in bullet-time, when you can see the bullets.
  
  Quick note about enemy AI: By the looks of things, it is mostly scripted, in the sense that they 
 may stop and shoot if they see you, but they will continue to run to their hiding spot if they 
 can. Obviously, Gears of War-style covering system it's not. Also, a great bonus is that every 
 shot stuns each enemy for a fraction of second for him to recoil and regain control of his gun, 
 which is great when there's over 4 guys coming from all sides.
  
  Now, drumroll please... I give you... the STORY! IN ALL ITS GLORY! Few games have achieved such 
 an emotional connection with the gamer. Beware though, a few spoilers are coming up, so If you 
 want to experience the game with a clear conscience, skip down to the second row of stars.
  * * * * * * * * * *
  For those sticking around, may you burn in the fiery depths of Hell, where 
 the Devil may turn you on a spit and scream, "MAX PAYNE!!!" for all eternity. Now that that's out 
 of the way, the story of Max Payne is so compelling, I'm amazed a movie starring Mark Wahlberg 
 hasn't yet come out (BREAKING NEWS: SUCH MOVIE IN DEVELOPMENT!) . Max works as an officer at his 
 local police unit. He has a wife and a baby. He has a house in a great suburb. "The American Dream". 
 One day, he comes home and discovers all of that gone: a trio of junkies have murdered his wife 
 and baby. In a flash, his life has turned upside down. Through investigations, it is revealed that 
 the drug Valkyr was responsible for the death of his family. He joins the DEA, and three years 
 later, they get their first real lead. Max volunteers to sniff around, but soon finds himself in 
 way over his head.
  * * * * * * * * * *
  The game has a great narrative in the form of a comic book. It's a great idea that could've fallen 
 face flat if it had not been for Max's affinity for metaphors. Here's an excerpt: 
  
  It wasn't hard to picture a fat pimp
  sweating with headphones on, listening to his hookers
 
  talk dirty and fake orgasms over the web of party lines;
  the blood veins of New York. Right now, there was a
  different set of moans and groans going 
 on...
  
  Sorry if it seems out of context, but it plays into a greater part of the story, and does it with 
 style. Max himself is awesome as well; he's a spiffy dresser by the looks of his leopard-spotted 
 jacket, and his face is constrained, and is now unanimously, among people who know the game, his 
 "constipated face". Sadly, he only has one. Face, that is. 
  
  The voice-acting is stupendous. James McCaffrey, a. k. a. Max, has the perfect gruff voice that speaks 
 of years of pent-up rage, frustration, vengeance and tiredness. Everyone else, from important contacts 
 to friends to the lowly thugs, speaks the way they should, when they should, about what they should. 
 Nothing more can be said.
  
  Overall, it's a great game with very few faults that, by my standards, should've been game of the 
 year for 3 years. I hope that the time I've spent writing a review were worth it, and that Direct2Drive 
 will soon be 15 dollars richer, and you - one "Max Payne" happier.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FahlazadDelOra
Rating: 9
Date: May 6, 2008 12:43 am PT
Review:  Max Payne is a really good game with the matrix style shooting and the bullet time mode really 
 blows away all your enemies to the wall. The storyline is superb too and the comic book style really 
 kills boredom. There are five game modes in Max Payne Fugitve, Hard boiled, Dead On arrival, New 
 York minute. You start at Fugitive level which the easy one and beat Fugitive you'll get Hard Boiled 
 mode (Medium) and New york minute (Medium Beat The Clock) .
  
  You'll start the game as a regular cop who returns home and find out his wife and child been killed 
 by some psychopathic junkies of a new drug called Valkyr or V and later Max joined DEA (Drug Enforcement 
 Association) with his friend Alex Balder. Later on, his friend B. B called him to meet at Roscoe 
 Street Station and he met Alex at the station and B. B come down the stairs and shoot Alex at point 
 blank range. Max was framed and the cops was hunting him. The story grows with Max entangle with 
 Mafias and a secret organization and finally he found the killer who kills his family. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2008 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Story/Gamplay: 9.5/10
  - Great story and its all laid out in comic book style windows. You play as an EX-NYPD officer 
 who gets caught up in a drug and mafia war, things get personal and he goes out after all the head 
 mafia leaders. Gameplay consists of many weapons to use and matrix like bullet-time. Both story 
 and gameplay are outstanding. Game at times has a certain unseen creepiness, like the blood-trail 
 maze was certainly creepy and a just bit annoying at times.
  
  Environment & Immersion: 9/10
  - Both maps and enviornment seem quite perfectly place with the 
 games story. Maps have their own style and tone to each one, really shows the gritty, nasty part 
 of the underground mafia gangs in New York. Some maps end up being more of maze like but being 
 theres very few that do this, it adds a sense of challange through environment puzzle.
  
  Graphics/Physics: 8.5/10
  - The graphics for its time were great. Compaired to now-a-day graphics, 
 they seem sort of dull. Regardless, the explosions and occasional environment cutscene destruction 
 is quite fun. Very unique way to tell the story through comic strips, I really did enjoy this being 
 it was so different and almost seems refreshing to the whole gaming realm.
  
  Sound: 8.5/10
  - Sound is really funny. All of the characters seem to play an interesting role, 
 and the voices during the story just make it that much more entertaining. Great whitty remarks 
 by just about everyone in the game. Weapons and explosions had pretty good sounds and worked well 
 for its time.
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 9/10
  - Game did crash once, but I'm pretty sure it had to do with my security software confliction with 
 the game. Either way game didn't have any performace problems, when the game was released I don't 
 remember any flaws then either.
  
  Replay value: 8.5/10
  - Game can typically be played quite a bit, even after completing the story multiple times. After 
 many times beating it on different difficulties it may be fun for some players to use cheats for 
 extra fun.
  
  Value/Originality: 9.5/10
  - Very original game with a very unique style of story cutscenes. Story is somewhat usual with 
 the mafia but still seems to be distantly different from any others. The game is worth a lot more 
 than it is commonly seen on the shelfs for.
  
  Will this game be remembered by old school gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - Oh definately, 
 this game is definately remebered as a classic by most old school gamers that I know.
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - Action fans, this game really can be enjoyed by more 
 than just that but as far as specifically goes anyone who likes action games or movies will love 
 Max Payne.
  
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 9 - Good cop goes mad, Max Payne is a classic mafia action game. Matrix style bullet-time 
 makes combat very entertaining. This game truely has some unique and great features to the game 
 play that really set it aside from other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xcr33px
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  well. maybe if you never played it before, and today you suddenly decided to play it, you'd probably 
 think it was.. well fun, but not very eye pleaseing, well maybe so, but back when it first came 
 out, it was one of the best, sure the voice acting was really sappy, and the fact the almost all 
 the badguys said the same thing, but hey, over all, this game is really fun!
  its addicting , beingable to runaround, take 40 gun shots, kill 30 people. in under 5 mins,
  
 
  Graphics- back then, graphics like that would be considered godlike. nowadays its not that good, 
 gameplay- the accual game is really fun/addictive, i reccommend you Atleast try this game
  
  overall-4/5 reasons: all the peoples faces Are really creepy!
  the accual sounds in the game 
 arn't very well thought up. 
  all the levels are really fun to roam, and the storyline is pretty good overall, 
  sure they 
 could have it more meaning, but for all it has a pretty good story, 
  the replay value to this game is really good, 
  it never really gets boreing, so if you have 
 a copy of max payne lying around
  try it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romanmoga15
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2008 8:05 pm PT
Review:  When I started to play Max Payne I was enjoying the game on an orgasmic level lol.
  
  Gameplay: This game has great gameplay. It makes you get so tense that you pause before you dive 
 around the corner to start shooting the enemy. Over that, you have a lot of guns which most of 
 them are great. You have the Colt Commando that is a rapid fire gun and can do more damage then 
 the Ingra's. I liked the sniper rifle to because when you close-in on the enemy with you target 
 thing the bullet slows down and goes fast all of a sudden, which is really cool.
  
  Graphics: I think the graphics for this game are great. Well I don't have alot to say about the 
 graphics.
  
  Sound: The sound is really good in this game. You hear all this talking from somewhere that's far 
 away in the game but, the voice is kind of faint which makes the sound look good. The you hear 
 yelling and screaming every time you shoot the enemy's and when the enemy's see you they start 
 calling all their partners to help shoot you down.
  
  Value: This game is a must have. If you are into third-person shooters then you should definitely 
 get this game. With the gameplay, graphics, and sound being great you should get this game. This 
 game is relatively cheep and you won't regret not getting this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreggD
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  So, before I begin this review, it should be stated that I am biased in favor of this game, and 
 have played through it at least twenty times. Having said that, let's begin.
  
  Max Payne is one of those games that works very well on paper, as well as in action. Executed beautifully 
 from start to finish, minus a couple dream sequences.
  
  The game starts with our protagonist, Max Payne, coming home from a day of work in the New York 
 Police Department. Upon arrival, his house appears to be ransacked, and he soon makes his way upstairs, 
 only to find his baby and wife murdered by a group of "thugs" high on a new drug named Valkyr. 
 After this, you are thrust into present day, and sent on a crusade by your vengeance. The story 
 has many plot twists to it, and is told through intermittent graphic novel cutscenes with full 
 voice acting and sound effects to enhance the storytelling.
  
  The gameplay is original, in that it was the first game to utilize shootdodging (a technique used 
 to dodge bullets and shoot at the same time) , as well as bullet time (no explanation here, as it's 
 fairly common these days) . The controls handle like most PC shooters, with the crouch key playing 
 a minor role, and instead the shootdodge key taking up the slack. Very good handling, overall.
 
  
  The audio design is really exeptional, with voice actors who sound like they're straight out of 
 a James Cagney flick. The sound effects are appropriate, and the bullet time in particular is really 
 unique in that the sound for triggering it is a modified whipping effect. Very cool.
  
  It's graphics were great for the time, and still hold up fairly well. They used then-cutting edge 
 technology to map facial features and expressions to characters. There's a lot of gray and brown 
 in the color scheme, but nothing terribly down-toned. Of course, there's also the blood, which 
 adds some color. :P
  
  All in all, Max Payne is a pure classic that any fan of shooters or great storytelling shouldn't 
 miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface46
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 22, 2008 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 7
  Graphics: 7
  Sound: 8
  Value: 5
  Tilt: 8
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Max Payne was a fun game. It had a okay storyline and some cool action scenes, but I expected 
 it to be better. There were a lot of annoying and pointless parts, such as, running to your wife 
 and daughter in a nightmare; it was a waste of time for me. Moreover, it had a bunch of nice guns 
 and it had fair graphics for 2001. However, once your done with the short storyline, which can 
 be finished in nearly 5 hours, and you try out the unlocked modes you will probably get bored of 
 it really soon. Overall, this game has a fun, but short storyline with some memorable moments, but 
 Max Payne is an extremely overrated game, in my opinion. This game should only be played if you 
 want to waste some time when your really bored.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WalkingP
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2008 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne, a detective framed for the murder of his wife and baby daughter and hunted by the mob 
 and the authorities, fights a hopeless battle. This action thriller is one of the best of its kind. 
 You take on the role of Max Payne, but prepare yourself for the many twists and turns of this creative 
 plot. 
  
  This game is very stable and plays flawlessly. The graphics are detailed and let you play in real 
 time and slow motion. The Game has a variety of weapons, including pistols, submachine guns, shotguns, 
 sniper rifles, grenades, Molotov cocktails, and much more. Max can be wounded or killed during 
 game play but you can completely recover by using painkillers, which you'll find scattered about 
 in desks and cabinets throughout the game. 
  
  I highly recommend this game and it should be a part of any gamers collection because it can be 
 played time and time again. It is already a classic.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thiefGarrett
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2008 9:22 pm PT
Review:  I might have laughed, if I had remembered how.
  --Max Payne
  
  Just recently Max Payne was an undercover DEA agent infiltrating the biggest drug ring in New York. 
 Now, after being framed for murdering another officer, he's a fugitive. Plus, since his true identity 
 has been leaked, the Mafia wants him dead. But Max Payne doesn't die too well, and he has a score 
 to settle.
  
  Three years ago Payne's wife and child were killed by some junkies high on Valkyr, V, the newest 
 designer drug. Soon after that Payne joined the war on drugs in an effort to bring down the people 
 responsible for V. Presently wanted for murder he decides to add a few more bodies to the pile. 
 Scratch that, a lot more bodies. Plus he's going to do it in a mix of hardboiled detective story, 
 Hong Kong blood opera, and comic book format.
  
  Narration during the game takes place as a series of panels in a comic book, from Payne's perspective, 
 with audio laid on top. These sequences occur at the beginning and end of every chapter, and even 
 during calmer parts of gameplay in order to further the plot. The comic book often has a gritty 
 look to it, and is coloured in such a way as to resemble brush strokes. This gives the narrative 
 a feeling of unease that suits the game perfectly.
  
  The voice work throughout the game is great. Max Payne, who narrates the entire story, sounds like 
 Humphrey Bogart in one of those hard-boiled detective stories. He delivers his lines without any 
 emotion, but with plenty of style. The rest of the cast sounds good too, from news anchors to seedy 
 mobsters to junkies freaking out on V.
  
  Good voice work means nothing unless you have a good story to tell, and Max Payne has a great story. 
 At its heart this game is a simple tale about revenge. That said, every character you meet has 
 a personality and a motive to do whatever it is they do. The dialogue is sharply written and all 
 of Max's narration reveals a driven, desperate man. Also written into the story are a lot of references 
 to Ragnarok, the Norse myth of the final battle between the gods. A great snow storm, which is 
 supposed to be a sign of the coming of Ragnarok, appears almost from the beginning of the game 
 right until the conclusion. There is even the death of a man named Balder, and a group of powerful 
 politicians assemble at the Asgard building. While references like these may go over the heads 
 of most people, they add a lot to the story if you're willing to do a bit of research.
  
  Thankfully the gameplay is every bit as great as the story. The game controls very well with the 
 mouse and WASD keys, and there are lots of different weapons to choose from. Weapons are divided 
 into categories, such as pistols, shotguns, and explosives, and each category is assigned to a 
 number key. Firearms behave as they should, with rate of fire, power, and accuracy varying for 
 each weapon. Also, reloading takes a realistic amount of time, which you'll notice if you try to 
 take down more than three guys with a shotgun.
  
  The level design is first class throughout the entire game. Various situations such as fighting 
 in stairwells, or in hallways, or in open spaces force you to switch your weapons, along with your 
 strategy, pretty frequently. The environment also provides plenty of cover in the form of walls, 
 crates, and other objects you might actually come across in everyday life. Although most of these 
 objects are not destructible, they will usually be riddled with bullet holes after combat, which 
 tends to make the area look as if a fight actually took place there.
  
  What really makes the gameplay special is the shootdodge mechanic. The shootdodge incorporates 
 dodging and slow motion, allowing you to avoid damage and take better aim at the same time. Of 
 course each shootdodge depletes a gauge, but it is slightly replenished every time you kill an 
 enemy. While slow motion definitely helps ease the difficulty of combat it also adds a lot to the 
 overall feel of the game. Entering a shootdodge causes everything to slow down, allowing you to 
 watch bullets fly past you (or into you) , blood slowly splatter out of wounds, and bodies move 
 in a ragdoll ballet. Also, the audio slows down causing gun fire to sound muffled and distorted. 
 More than the visual aesthetic though, the shootdodge makes the player feel like they are doing 
 something absolutely incredible, as if they were the star of an action movie straight out of Hong 
 Kong.
  
  While Max Payne is certainly a stylish game most of the major elements are borrowed from other 
 works, and the developers have no problem admitting that. There are many references to Humphrey 
 Bogart and John Woo, along with all the references to Norse mythology. The developers have done 
 a fantastic job of portraying Max Payne as a character who is influenced by fictional gun play 
 and film noir, and as a result those elements tend to influence the player's experience. Whatever 
 the reason is, Max Payne is like nothing else out there. This game executes so many different elements 
 extremely well it's easy to see a diverse crowd being drawn to it. Whether you have an interest 
 in the story, the style, or simply the action, this game should be near the top of your "to play" 
 list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 55584623
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  max payne is not just outstading as a game, but it is outstading as a kind of movie as well. thanks 
 to a very well developed history, with beatiful philoshopical messages.
  and this feature combined with the game creates a very unique result.
  the cool is that max payne 
 just like any game from "rockstar" is simple and fun. and becomes funnier with the bullet motion 
 feature, that is just simple, very cool and easy to use.
  but even with the bullet motion feature the realism is still very precise and can be even a negative 
 point for some players, cause the dificult is really really high, so its normal sometimes to die 
 with one shot even with full health, but lets be honest, with you were walking out there and took 
 a shotgun shoot straigh trough, you would die for sure hehe.
  so the dificult is not "forced" trought the reality, actually is quite like the reality.
  but 
 of course that the levels are full of painkillers to aid the player, so in the end the dificult 
 is not a real problem, after you get used to the game you will kick ass with no problem.
  
  so conclunding max payne is a remarkable and unique game, every second of it worths, so what are 
 you waiting for?! stop reading this review and go get the game!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icehearted
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Cop seeks justice for murdered family. Sounds like a cheesy plot for another corny made for TV 
 movie, but in this case it's a tale of intrigue, action, and the sad soul of a man that must face 
 his demons alone, fighting through both enemies and allies to get his revenge. The narrative alone 
 in Max Payne is worth the price of admission. There really aren't many Film Noir games out there, 
 and even fewer tell a tale like this one.
  
  Better still is that you get a fantastic action shooting game to boot. Controls are simple, move, 
 aim, shoot, crouch, and one of the game's other neat little features, bullet time. So what's that? 
 If you've ever seen a movie where things suddenly get exciting and everything slows down so that 
 you can catch all the action, you've pretty much got this figured out. As you take out the bad 
 guys a meter fills up on the almost nonexistent hud, and you will then be able to activate bullet 
 time, slowing down everything but your ability to aim for as long as your gauge will last or when 
 you decide to deactivate it. It gives the game a great new dimension while keeping things challenging 
 and interesting.
  
  I do have my gripes that I'm sure others have mentioned. The game is short, very short, and it's 
 also very linear. The Story is told primarily with what look like comic book stills narrated by 
 actors for each character. I enjoyed this but others might find it lazy or even bland compared 
 to normal cg or cut scenes. Another problem will be the dream sequences, which are little more 
 than tiny mazes you must navigate on foot without stepping out of place. Do so and you will have 
 to start over. They feel unnecessary and they do slow things down a bit when they happen, but luckily 
 they are few and far between.
  
  The game is very replayable, and chances are you will replay it if you enjoyed it the first time. 
 The storytelling is terrific even when it's cheesy, the game is a lot of fun, and almost anyone 
 can get into it right away. Max is one of those characters you will almost never see again in another 
 game, making him as refreshing as he is bleak. Despite it's minor flaws the game shines brilliantly 
 and is more than worth playing by action fans, and those looking for something a little different. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vdc_of_music
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 7:16 am PT
Review:  Having seen a few reviews for this game, i decided the time was too purchase. i was not dissappointed 
 in the slightest. The main drawing point for this game, for me, was the way the story was put across. 
 I've played a number of games where the plot becomes very much part of the background and played 
 no major part. However Max Payne is very different, from the word go the player is immersed in 
 this dark and morbid world of betrayel and gloom. Deeply compelling, i couldn't help but engross 
 myself into every story cut scene, rather than skipping it, which i find myself doing in a number 
 of games. Rather than use FMV or in game cinematics, the plot was put across via an almost gothic 
 comic strip, which i found a breath of fresh air to the gaming world, smootly paving the way between 
 one chapter to another. From beginning to the end the story is explained and you as the player 
 are never left wondering or asking questions. 
  
  Where the story-telling remains to a high and individual style the gameplay doesn't let this standard 
 fall. The player is eased into the gameplay rather than dropping you in at the deepend. The control 
 of the character was easy and fluid and kept reasonably simple. The most impressive aspect of the 
 control system is the bullet-time incorporated into the game. Very Matrix-esq in its fashion, this 
 mode allows the player to slow down time around them yet still aim in realtime, giving you the 
 real edge in difficult fire-fights. What this bullet-time also allows you to see is the level of 
 detail that has gone into the gameplay, one noticiable point are the bullets that crawl slowly 
 past you and the trails they leave from the AI weapons. Thus showing how realistic this game is 
 in the fact that the guns fire actual bullets, rather than most games that involve you firing a 
 weapon and the damage registering on the other end. 
  
  All in all this is a high standard game that belongs in every gamers collection, that provides 
 a breath of fresh air, an involving and unique gameplay and surroundings, and a compelling story 
 and its individual presentation. 
  . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeartBreakKID1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  I remember getting this game for the PS2. I got bored and fustrated with it quickly (scene where 
 u had to jump on the train) , and i eventually traded it with Gamestop. But, when I saw that Gamestop 
 gave the PC version a 9.2, I was thinking, maybe this would be a lot more enjoyable than the PS2 
 version. So, i bought it for about 4 bucks on Half. com, and received it three days ago. I just 
 finished it yesterday, and man, i am so happy that I gave it a second chance. Not many games can 
 give you what Max Payne gave to anyone who has played it. It gives you an immersive story, solid 
 gameplay, great gunfights and beautiful Graphics. This game is perfect in every aspect. I can't 
 wait till i get Max Payne 2! Obviously, I will be getting it for the PC lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddyking3
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 25, 2009 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne follows a cop, 'Max' who has a nice peaceful life. No problems, baby girl, wife good 
 companion; life's grand for him. But junkies raid his house and kills his baby and wife. In shock 
 he is sworn to find the person responsible, Nicole Horn.
  
  The plot seems to lacklustre on some points, putting up plot twists, holes and things that can 
 drag you from the game. But some do seem interesting, you'll actually sometime find yourself reading/listening 
 to the graphic novel sooner or later.
  
  Gameplay is fantastic, making it the best 3rd person shooter I've seen. You'll often know where 
 you'll be going, but the games way of making mazes at the prologues can be frustrating. You'll 
 always get yourself to look at a walkthrough to solve them.
  Enemies get genuinely harder as the game progresses, shooting and eating up more ammo then eiarlier 
 ones. They evolve to thugs, gangsters, junkies, crime bosses, mercenaries and killer suits; all 
 going to the same objective, to eliminate Max. They don't put up much of a fight first, but later 
 you'll see them using actual military strategy, by ducking, taking cover and diving.
  
  Max Payne hits the funfactor with interactive environments, shooting stuff, revealing stuff. First 
 you'll have some fun with the environment. But soon you'll be more focused on the game and actually 
 want to beat it. As many people have to admit, it's hard. You'll be quick saving like there's no 
 tomorrow, you'll strain yourself not to use cheats. But when you beat the game without them, you'll 
 feel more successful, and glad that you've done it. Once your stuck in the game you'll find that 
 it surprisingly zooms through levels, but like with every game, you can never make it too long 
 or it'll be a giant system hog.
  
  Bullet time, is the most used, and one of the most original feature of Max Payne. You'll use it 
 for shooting people behind corners and attacking bosses. Weapons are cool to play with and are 
 awesome for the destruction they can make. Dual Berretas, Colt Commando and single Ingrams were 
 a most used when I played through it.
  
  If they tipped more choice of difficulty (especially another easy option) I'd say it's the best 
 shooter I'd have in my collection,
  
  Max Payne is fun, interactive, hard but cool. I'd say anyone who loves simply shooting stuff, loves 
 Max Payne. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bozanimal
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  The overwhelming shadow of a city - rotting with disease - presses in around you. The neon lights 
 and chittering rats mock you knowingly. The streets are lined with graffiti, trash, and needles. 
 There are more dumpsters than trees. Your fellow denizens are not friends, at least not to you, 
 and usually not even to each other. They're okay with you, though, it makes exterminating them 
 easier on your conscious.
  
  Some might not blame the junkies for what they do. The drug, Valkyr, takes control of their minds 
 and bodies; getting a fix is more important than doing what is right or wrong. But at some point 
 they made the choice. At some point they made the wrong choice. Coming into your home and murdering 
 your family was a very, very wrong choice.
  
  Three years later you have moved on to become an undercover operative for the DEA. The pay is crap, 
 but you never really got in for the pay, did you? Working as a beat cop in Hell's Kitchen wasn't 
 exactly paying the bills, anyway. Besides, a chance to get back at the mafioso that saturated the 
 city with Valkyr is more important.
  
  The irony of your own addiction to pain killers is furthest from your mind. Your DEA contact Alex 
 was just killed, like everyone else you were ever close to. As your only link to the DEA and your 
 other life, you are now the primary suspect.
  
  You will need to do some detective work on your own. You've been undercover in the Punchinello 
 family for awhile now anyway, might as well pay them a visit to find out what's going on.
  
  Maybe you'll even find out what happened three years ago.
  
  It's a safe bet they know 
 you're coming. Too bad they don't know what you're capable of, and what you'll be packing.
  
  You have pistols, uzis, shotguns, grenades, Molotov cocktails, a sniper rifle, and even a baseball 
 bat at your disposal. Rambo didn't pack this much hardware, but then again, he didn't need it. 
 In fact, the only thing holding you back from riddling the entire city with bullets is a lack thereof.
 
  
  When the situation gets heated, and the bullets start flying, your heart starts pumping. You brain 
 speeds up, and the world around you slows down. You can take your time, adjust your aim, and be 
 sure that whatever scumbag you're on is taken down.
  
  Of course, despite the hardware, despite your training and yes, even your anger, taking on a city 
 of Valkyr junkies and the mob is not going to be easy. In fact, it will easily be the most difficult 
 thing you will ever do. If you fail, though; if you fail your wife and daughter will have died 
 for nothing.
  
  Something wicked this way comes. You. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agentdan868
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne is a game which introduces a mixed genre. It is an action game which is third-person 
 shooter, with a film noir touch. The game starts out with Max on a building with a sniper rifle 
 in his hands and all the police are after him; to Max all history and all events has happened. 
 To make any sense of it (For us) Max goes back to where it all started, where it all went wrong. 
 So everything the game is playing is a flashback how Max witnessed it all. The games through its 
 various scenes are portrayed as a comic strip with an excellent voice over done by his truly, Max 
 Payne. As the game progresses the plot thickens and the gamer is pulled deeper into the game.
 
  
  Max Payne offers genuine fun to all users. The graphics are great even among genres still released 
 today. The physics are genuine and the shadows and lighting effects are par. The game offers incredible 
 game play with the feature, Bullet Time. What this does is slow down time for both Max and all 
 the enemies, but Max himself shoots in real-time. Bullet Time is feature which is not over-used 
 because of it manner of being replenished. It offers the gamer to dodge gunfire aimed to kill Max, 
 and allows Max to pull incredible shots to eradicate all his foes. The weapons that are used in 
 the game are real world weapons, which look themselves insanely real when on-screen. The game is 
 one of the best ever created and offers much to do and enjoy.
  
  Any gamer that is a die hard shooter, that loves gunfights and enjoys a heart pumping, action filled, 
 adrenaline packed game, should go out and buy Max Payne to enjoy for a time, and half. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kumarh3
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2007 12:02 am PT
Review:  Max Payne is an excellent game that should not be missed by anyone who loves third person shooters. 
 Max Payne has a very good story which is very well explained by an excellent cutscene. The game's 
 innovative concept of bullet time is awesome. It slows down the time of things around the player, 
 allowing the player to aim and shoot correctly. The game's grpahics are good. The music and the 
 background score is excellent (especially the theme music) . The voice acting is excellent, especially 
 James MaCaffrey ( Max Payne) . But the prologue part, especially Max's wife screaming and his child 
 crying are really annoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: giro786
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  OHHHHH my GOD ; i remember playing this game back in 2002 ; this is my most played game ever ; 
 i don't remember how many times i finished this game to the final end .
  
  speaking of using the bullet time option invented in the matrix movie , it was a very excellent 
 idea ; this was the very first game to ever use this option fantastic story given to the game , 
 you live with the character along the game ; it is like you are inside the game
  
  the most part i spent a lot of time in was the last part in the game ; and of course i will not 
 tell you how i solve it , because this will be considered as spoilers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grantelicious
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 8:34 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  
  - Storyline
  - Graphics (even now for both of them)
  - Attension to detail (like background noises and watching tvs etc etc.)
  - Funny jokes
  - 
 Controls
  - bullet time
  - Good length for a action game
  - Both games are one of the best ever created.
  - Some great mods
  - Great value where both 
 games will only cost you &pound;10
  
  Cons:
  
  - No multiplayer (although it wouldn't really work + they're multiplayer mods)
  
  This review 
 will be used for both Max Payne 1 and 2 because i'm viewing them as a series + they're both pretty 
 similar to eachother.
  
  When i first played Max Payne i thought the graphics were sooo amazing and not because it has a 
 high polygon count but because the details and textures were amazing. You just didn't get this 
 kind of detail in games at the time and it just really brings life to the gameplay. What you notice 
 about Max Payne at the time was that it has Bullet Time which many people said was just taken from 
 The Matrix and a Matrix game will be better but we all know how that turned out, 2 crap movies 
 and lots of crap games. The great thing about bullet time is not just the effects but that does 
 look great too but the way it can turn the tide in the gameplay. If your in lots of trouble and 
 you need to get out of a bad situation then that'll hopefully turn it for you so you don't die. 
 Basically it makes everything go slow giving you a edge to react faster than everyone else.
  
  Also what you notice about Max Payne 1 and 2 is the fantastic storyline that it gives you and 
 really makes you care about the characters and getting to the end. No other game from FPS to third 
 person action game has had a better story and these 2 games, it's great how it has a RPG standard 
 story. What you'll really love about the two games though is all the gun fights aroun all the physics 
 which is more so in the 2nd game. Just makes it sooo beautiful to watch and all that much better 
 for taking cover and just little fun things you can do. I also like how they add some little funny 
 things in the background of hotels like couples fighting and having sex.
  
  Which game has the better storyline? It's hard to say really as Max Payne 1 is finding out why 
 his Wife and kid were murdered and getting revenge. The 2nd game is about Max Payne finishing the 
 story and bumps into Mona Sax, from then of it's like a weird kinda love story between both of 
 them which put's it as my personal fave.
  
  Max Payne 1 and 2 has a very dark sense of humour which is some i found really unique to these 
 games. If they made a 3rd one and it didn't have the same humour then i don't think you could call 
 it Max Payne. Anything from dirty writing on the wall to sick tv shows and banner adverts + what 
 i just said above. I really has that gangsta ghetto rough hooker gun crime and drugs feel to it 
 which i love personally.
  
  Max Payne has some great sound effects with all the guns and all the extras to listen to i the 
 background. Also the voice acting is all done really well, specially in the 2nd game where they 
 just made it sound better. That goes for the music aswel both game shave greta music but the 2nd 
 agme sounded like it was updated with the bigger budget.
  
  Most people say Max Payne is a short game only lasting 10 hours but tbh when has a actiong/shooting 
 game lasted much longer than that anyways? Some games lately like Bioshock or MOH: A have taken 
 me only 3-6 hours to complete. So i think Max Payne has a great length with about 20 hours in the 
 series of a great storyline and great action so what more could you want?
  
  Max Payne 1 and 2 are both one of my personal faves and i couldn't realy fault them even if they're 
 quite linear, but what game isn't anyways. If theres a storyline to be told it has to be linear 
 otherwise it wouldn't have a story. IT's a shame the series hasn't sold more and it really deserves 
 to as they're both one of the best games ever created... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monowasp
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 7, 2007 9:48 am PT
Review:  I remember when this game came out in 2001. It seems such a long time ago now, in another lifetime... 
 I had one of those super-top-computers of that year and played everything I could get my hands 
 on. Of course I was a John Woo fan, and when reports started to come about this game Max Payne 
 which had bullet time , I just couldn't wait.
  
  I bought the game in the summer, spent as much time with it as I could, examining every corner, 
 trying out every possible angle to tackle the opponents. What I got was a truley marvelous game 
 that still gives me shivers when I think about how good it is... I have a brand new computer these 
 days, and of course I got a GeForce 8800 GTX and everything optimized, 3GB RAM and so forth, the 
 best possible CPU. What I've seen in todays games is incredible and beautiful; graphics today are 
 as high-end as they come; it's just, that most of the time, the games lack integrity and motivation 
 for the gamer to be interested. At first glance, nice graphics is a most, but there must be story 
 as well...
  
  And here is where Max Payne does a wonderful job of combining everything we like in storytelling 
 and interaction. Back then the graphics where top-noch, but even more rememberable is the haunting 
 story of Max Payne and his quest for justice. Turn on any TV-set, you'll see those TV-shows with 
 a cop out for revenge. In Max Payne you play one, and will never forget it...
  
  I just installed the game for the 7th time. I am going to play it through once again. I just love 
 it. Thank you Remedy for this great effort... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FEPowered390
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  Max Payne. Everyone who loves PC games has played Max Payne. It's a great third-person action game 
 that really freshens up the genre with some new tricks.
  
  Max Payne had his wife and child killed by mobs while he was working as what seems to be an undercover 
 cop. Now he is back to seek revenge and uncover a story behind the killings. This is where you 
 come into play.
  
  The game isn't too story based. There is just enough story to keep you questioning What's next 
 . There is a lot of film noire style scripting, with Max speaking in similes and metaphors which 
 kinda bring on a poetic rhyme. Count on your experience being mainly slow-mo and shooting without 
 a huge story based role.
  
  The game's simple gameplay makes it very accessible to young and old alike. There isn't too much 
 keys to learn. Just your shoot, dive, and slow-mo! It's an honorable mention that this game gave 
 birth to slow motion , which allows you to sneak in extra shots and dodge bullets. This makes your 
 chances of survival extremely possible.
  
  The difficulty in this game seems right on the spot. You'll get to some pretty difficult parts, 
 but you wont be pulling your hair out too much getting past them.
  
  All in all, Max Payne brings something new and fresh to the table, providing an awesome soundtrack, 
 voice acting, gameplay, a decent story, and soul. While it's not going to be the best game out 
 there, it's certainly gold. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackBurton
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 10, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  This is when the 3rd-person shooter officially grew up. Another true landmark in gaming history. 
 Never before had we seen such a combination of all this game has to offer, and in spades! Rarely 
 has a game lived-up to it's hype and expectations. This one did! Six years later this remains a 
 memorable game experience which has stood the test of time. Bullet-time &amp; shoot-dodge afforded 
 the game replay value w/out having any multi-player support. I've played it at least 5 times, twice 
 immediately, plus once every couple of years since, and it still rocks! It belongs on the shelf 
 of any true gaming fan/collector, as well as ANY Greatest Games of All-time List. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frypanmaniac
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 4, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne is a game you grow to love, with its dark comic book style presentation and awesome, 
 fast paced gameplay. Games like Max Payne rarely achieve this level of mastery, and should definitely 
 be given a chance, especially for those of you who are bored with the dull mechanics of today's 
 shooters. 
  
  I first played Max Payne only a few months ago, yet I still loved the graphics, the storyline, 
 the shooting, and just about every little thing about the game. The voice acting is top notch and 
 thrusts you into the heart of the action. Although it is an older game, it still is better than 
 most shooters on the market today, and it never felt like a chore to play. Play this classic game, 
 and I guarantee that you will not regret it. So pause your Halo game or log out of WOW to try your 
 hand at one of the most overlooked centuries in the history of PC gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KMsandmanCS
Rating: 6.1
Date: Aug 2, 2007 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Game is OK. The action is good, but it does not flow, i cant comprehend how many times i was killed 
 and had to restart, it seems like i get killed around every corner becuase of the camera, the enemies 
 see me before i see them, and there weapons to extreme amounts of damage for some reaosn, the enemies 
 shotgun is way more powerful than max's, a guy killed me from across a level with one shot! There 
 are also no enough pain killers, i found my self with between 50% and 25% almost all the time. 
 If you like to die alot and enjoy quick saving the game around every corner, just to reload it 
 again than enjoy this game, becuase i know i didnt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mayankahuja
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 31, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  This game has been the most amazing game to date. The graphics, bullet time, guns everything is 
 just pure perfect. By far my most favourite game. If you have ever played this game then you know 
 what i mean. The story, plot development feels like watching a film-noir. Was worth the time remedy 
 took in developing this game i. e 3 years. I have played this game and ended it around 8 times already 
 but still i go back to it whenever i feel bored of other FPS games. If you are an FPS fan like 
 me you should be probably be owning it by now. If you dont then dont wait go and buy it you will 
 love every minute of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  The last game we saw from Finnish developer Remedy Entertainment was in late 1996, when it released 
 a top-down racer called Death Rally. Heard of it? Probably not. The game fell under the radar but 
 became a grass-roots success among web junkies who played the shareware version, and when Remedy 
 began work on a high-technology action game called Max Payne in 1997, a lot of folks started paying 
 attention.
  
  Nearly four years later, after volumes of press attention2001, Max Payne went gold on Sunday, July 
 16. Having played through it, we can finally declare it was worth the wait. Max Payne is great. 
 Truth be told, third-person shooters dont come any better.
  
  So far, since little was known about the storyline, the attention surrounding Max Payne has focused 
 on the game engine. Fortunately, the plot  a grim, compelling noir-style cop tale  is as gripping 
 as the stunning action sequences.
  
  The game opens with Max teetering on the roof of a New York skyscraper, snow falling like ashes 
 from post-apocalyptic skies, sirens blaring from the street below. He begins to reflect on his 
 situation, and the ensuing game is a 21-chapter narrated flashback of how he got there.
  In the first five minutes of gameplay, you relive the morbid nucleus of Maxs rage. Returning home 
 from your police beat, you find your adored wife and baby brutally slain, and the drugged-up killers 
 still roaming the house. After dispatching them, Max joins the DEA, seeking revenge on the drug 
 pushers responsible.
  
  We flash forward to sometime a few days ago. Max has infiltrated the toughest mob family in New 
 York, and is on his way to meet with his DEA handler in a subway station when everything goes horribly 
 awry. Maxs cover is blown, his partner is killed, and Max is framed for his murder. Left with 
 nothing to lose and a swelling ache for vengeance, he proceeds to hunt down the mobster chain of 
 command.
  
  We already knew that the game engine employs a slow-motion bullet-time mode in which action is 
 played out like scenes from The Matrix, but we didnt know how it improved the game mechanics. 
 It turns out that bullet-time is a resource, akin to ammunition and health, that recharges with 
 each kill. Its useful because Max, unlike most FPS heroes, doesnt have bulletproof skin. You 
 take damage just as easily as your enemies, so bullet-time is your heroic edge.
  
  When in slow motion, you can turn and aim just like normal (though firing speed is diminished) . 
 This allows you to get a precise bead on enemies instead of just firing blindly in their direction. 
 Using bullet-time in conjunction with a falling leap makes you a difficult target, and Max can 
 generally take out three enemies with only minor injuries.
  
  Oh, and we should tell you that its the best-looking effect since the invention of the polygon. 
 You dont just jump between regular-speed and slow-motion; a tweening effect creates a smooth 
 transition between tempos. Gun-barrel explosions are full-bodied, bullets leave trails as they 
 glide past your head, and shells eject from chambers as if in zero gravity. Every noise sounds 
 like a 45 played at 33, including voices and ricocheting bullets. Its mesmerizing, and will have 
 your pals gawking in amazement.
  
  When youre not in-game, engaged in an action scene straight out of a John Woodirected slugfest, 
 the story unfolds through a distinct graphic novel. Whenever you answer a phone, read a note, talk 
 to someone, or travel between sites, comic panels pop up with sound effects and narration. It works 
 well, allowing you to relax and watch some artful exposition after a hard hour of fighting. The 
 shadowy drawings help flesh out the film-noir ambience Remedy was aiming for.
  
  The in-game environments are less stylized and more realistic, with certain scenes breaching the 
 photorealism barrier. The texture work has to be seen to be believed. A detailed, seamlessly mapped, 
 high-resolution photograph covers every 3D model, from people to pistols to store fronts. Amazingly, 
 the game doesnt require a ninja system. It runs smoothly on a Pentium 500, due in part to the 
 Finns uncanny appreciation for tight code.
  
  The fire effect deserves particular mention. I have never, in two decades of gaming, seen flame 
 so believably rendered in real time. From candlesticks to muzzle flash, it moves like the real 
 thing. One mission has you racing through a restaurant exploding in flames, and if youre not blinded 
 in awe, your jaw will drop.
  
  The game dynamically adjusts enemy skill level to suit your reflexes, a cool and invisible trick. 
 The thugs make for decent opposition, but their strength is their brawn, not intelligence. The 
 AI can get stuck firing into walls or beams, and your enemies are all pretty much the same in terms 
 of abilities: there are no thrilling boss characters.
  
  With the exception of two nightmarish dream sequences (which you actually play through, making 
 for some disturbing side trips into hell) , missions take you on solo guns-blaring tours of city 
 buildings and, in one case, a cargo ship. The result is an endless stream of cool action scenes, 
 but missions might have been more interesting with the addition of friendly AI. Throughout the 
 game, you commission someone to unlock a door three times. Besides that, youre on your own.
  
  There are also no innocents in the game  only gangsters and druggies. This absence is explained 
 by the snowstorm, which has everyone boarded up at home, but the city that never sleeps seems strangely 
 dormant.
  
  The lack of multiplay isnt so much an issue these days, as single-player games are enjoying a 
 healthy resurgence. Im not even sure how it would be possible to implement deathmatch with the 
 problem of bullet-time, so dont expect any such option here. Youll just have to settle for a 
 sweet single-player story.
  
  One last point of praise Remedy deserves is for the load times. Loading a map the first time takes 
 several seconds, but anytime after that (such as hitting the quickload key after a pathetic dive 
 into a shotgun blast) , its instantaneous.
  
  If youre looking for a great thrill ride, an interesting story, and bleeding-edge technology, 
 Max Payne delivers all of them. As with any engines first title, its potential is not totally 
 fulfilled, but the graphical novelties outweigh any shortcomings. Fans are already setting to work 
 on modifying their own Max Payne total conversions. Were dying to see what comes next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RenjiSama
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is a wanderfull way to show the magic of matrix with some action like that who we can 
 see in hitman, a really good conbination. The game is divided in 3 parts, each one makes you more 
 and more crazy to see the end (and what a end!!!) , misc of good and clean graphics with a enjoyable 
 gameplay. For my first suprise when i play this game i saw that he is not so heavy like some guys 
 says, really compact for a like with this class. The moviment from chapter to chapter makes easy 
 to understood the storyline and the pass in the chapter spells amazing the story. In the story 
 you are Max Payne, you work for the police, one beautiful day you came home and find nothing, only 
 the murder who kill your wife and your daughter, sinse that, you are hunting the man who give the 
 order to kill your family and you find, woth lots of pain and suffering. So, if you never played 
 it, dont lose your time only because you think that he is getting ''old'', i garanty that it will 
 make you much more crazy that lots of new games, try it! (again sorry for any errors with my english, 
 see ya!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerohour38
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 5, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Max payne is nothing but a masterpiece third person shooter that any gamer would enjoy. The game 
 starts off as Max Payne a cop working for the NYPD and one day he gets home and finds his home 
 broken into once he investigates he finds out that his house has been attacked by drug thugs after 
 a struggling battle Max finds out that they havemurdered his wife and baby daughter max goes to 
 the DEA and enters the biggest mafia family in new york to rack down th killer of his family. The 
 gameplay of Max Payne is excellent for a thrid person shooter although one minor flaw is sometimes 
 the story can be confusing to follow and could become weird and make you dissoriented at some points. The 
 sound of Max Payne as i say in every game review it is very good and realistic if your using surround 
 speakers or headphones. After a succesfull launch it brought a good sequal Max Payne 2 :the Fall 
 of Max Payne in 2003 although rumoured for a few years some people say remedy could be working 
 on a 3rd. All in all Max payne is a good game and should be a must buy for most gamers out there 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmiquila
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 3, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  As and adult PC gamer, for me it is very important to have a strong story to support the game. 
 If the story and the background are weak, it doesnt matter how good the action is, I will get 
 bored easily. I now this is true for many other adult PC gamers too, and Max Payne not only delivers 
 a great story, it tells it on a very innovative way and supports it with a very strong character. 
 This game stands out from other games in that sense and also adds some nice unique things to the 
 game play
  
  As Max Payne, you are a weak and confused character, hardly a hero. You are more a victim, I would 
 say, and as such you walk through the game under skilled and overpowered in front of your foes. 
 As such, you cannot take that many chances the way you do with other shooters, and have to be very 
 careful on what weapon you chose and the way you will face your enemies. You have to literally 
 master the Bullet Time feature in order to succeed and advance. The Bullet Time becomes then 
 the centerpiece of your strategy, and you have to use it wisely. The way to replenish bullet time 
 is very innovative: The more foes you kill the more bullet time you have available. So, it is like 
 you need bullet time to beat your enemies but you also need to beat your enemies to get bullet 
 time. Quite clever!
  
  Overall, the game fells like you are in a movie, in a dark cop movie, with all the complications 
 and real life issue you will see in this kind of movies, and why not, in real life if you where 
 on Maxs shoes. Granted, you probably wont take as many bullets as Max can take and wont have 
 the bullet time at your disposal, but hey, compared to other shooters, Max Payne is softer than 
 a loaf of bread, close to the way we are. Max is a fragile character in all senses, and this gives 
 the game a very real feeling.
  
  I didnt face any performance issues and really didnt find any lose ends on the history, which 
 makes me think the developers took a very careful approach on the game, thing every day harder 
 and harder to find in this time of PC Games bombardment and the rush to get a game out to the shelves 
 and then patch it as needed. Not the case with Max Payne. The experience was great and I enjoyed 
 this game as if I was watching a good movie or reading a good book. This game is simply memorable 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azabith
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 3, 2007 1:22 am PT
Review:  This truly is the best game i ever played. No other game comes to my mind when i'm asked what is 
 the best game i ever played. its been more than five years since i first indulged myself in the 
 world of Max Payne and till this day i keep on playing it as if for the first time. What makes 
 this game stand out is not only the controls or the bullet time option, but the story line in itself 
 is worth living. Mixing elements from graphic novels to film noir the story line is a memorable 
 one. A must have for your PC or console. Words are not enough to explain how great this game is 
 you have to play it yourself to understand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 13, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne is one of the first games to feature the ever cool bullet time , if not the first. It 
 was released not long after The Matrix movie and thus received very well rapport for the fact that 
 it had one of the slickest game features that spawned many other games with similar style, like 
 Prince of Persia and the latecomer Enter the Matrix.
  
  Whenever the bullet time is activated, you can pan the camera around to admire the slow motion 
 of every motion object in the screen before it undergoes a cool transition back into real-time 
 again. This function alone earns you back what you paid for it. Talking about panning the camera, 
 Max Payne had a very stable camera function that doesn't screw up like it happen in recent action 
 games such as Alias and the Bloodrayne series.
  
  The story of Max Payne is told in a noir comic book style reminiscent of Frank Miller's Sin City 
 and the humour satire as well, which fits perfectly with the overall moody ambience of the game 
 itself. Seldom we have shooter games that contains such an intricate script and Max Payne has hit 
 that spot indeed.
  
  The level design is linear though, so don't expect any open-ended challenge like Farcry, but it 
 is so well designed you won't feel you're being led by the nose. The graphics are also cool given 
 detailed texture mappings and decent lighting system. While you may just need to play Max Payne 
 once, it left me an unforgettable impression and is considered a classic.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pangster007
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 8, 2007 7:52 pm PT
Review:  I was really surpised by this game. I first played this game on the xbox but i never got round 
 to completing it but i've now managed to come back to it.
  
  You take control of Max Payne, after suffering an incident in which both his wife and baby daughter 
 was killed, Max regresses to a life of being an undercover cop. However, your contact to the police 
 gets killed and you're framed for a series of events. Now that knowledge of your existence in the 
 police force have been wiped out... The police and your enemies who you spied on are all after 
 YOU. You'll progress chapter by chapter, killing masses of enemies including the mob bosses. Later 
 on, you'll discover that the wife and daughter incident was connected to who you're chasing down...
 
  
  Graphically, this game is not pretty; it has bad textures and low polygon models but this game 
 came out in 2001, i guess it's passable.. However, the flashy nuances such as bullet time, seeing 
 bullets, the atmosphere and the awesome presentation makes this a beautiful game despite those 
 technical shortcomings. 'cut-scenes' are actually image-stills with great artwork laid out and 
 styled as if you were reading a comic. The voiceover of bubbled-text is excellent, snarky, sarcastic, 
 had playful words and is very melodramatic. The presentation really gives character to Max and 
 it all just blends well together.
  
  One of the key gameplay elements of this game is bullet time. By activating bullet time, which 
 draws from a 'sand-timer' gauge, you'll get more time to aim and shoot at enemies as every one 
 else moves in slow motion. The meter is filled simply by killing. The use of this skill is essential 
 especially when having to kill enemies around corners with their weapons up expecting you to come 
 by. Just activate bullet-time, jump out, and aim shoot at their heads. This feature had become 
 a trend to induce that wow-factor especially after the movie Matrix and it definitely makes you 
 feel like a bad-ass in this game. Sound is rated highly in this game. The voice-acting, the whoosh 
 sound when you activate bullet-time, and the atmospheric tones are spot on, be it in a 'dream-world' 
 or in a brothel. After completing this game once, i had unlocked two extra modes, a more difficult 
 mode and a time-limit mode. Although i personally completed the game in around 5 hours, this game 
 can become longer if you struggle at times and if/when you want to play the oher modes that gets 
 unlocked. To fully complete this game, it would be around 20 hours or so.
  
  Using bullet-time is really fun. You see bullets coming at you, your bullets travelling towards 
 the enemies and the animations of your death or key enemies are all really slow and flashy. Other 
 note-worthy aspects is the sniper rifle you get about halfway through the game. Firing a sniper 
 bullet on target would see the camera zoom and travel along with the bullet. Seeing the journey 
 and the death animation afterwards is instantly satisfying.
  
  The game is split up into 3 parts, which is further split up in chapters. Each chapter is told 
 through a comic book style layout with a voice-over. At the end of each part, you'll find yourself 
 playing a small surreal mini-chapter which really varies the game a lot from the usual gun action. 
 To begin with, i slogged through the 1st part, using bullet time, navigating forward. The game 
 seemed really monotonous. Kill, clear out room, go to next area, and repeat. The game didn't seem 
 all that much until the end of 1st part. Things really picked up from there, you had learnt how 
 best to combat by then, but also you recieve some much better weapons including the sniper. The 
 stages became more clever and it wasn't long before i found myself in the last part. Thoroughly 
 enjoyable.
  
  I do have some criticisms about this game though. Although the action can be really fun, you'll 
 often see yourself getting killed. And not because it was hard, but rather, preset actions such 
 as lobbing a grenade down the corridor when you are in proximity. In no way is this artifical intelligence, 
 but rather just programmed in to do this whenever you moved there. The same can apply to enemies 
 standing guard behind doors or in tight corridors around corners. This often leads to your death, 
 and that death is just really cheap. this forces you to save really often so that you have the 
 opportunity to not take so much damage or die. This really breaks up the pacing of the game of 
 which without saving would have been relentless. Enemies are still very predictable, they either 
 stand there with their guns drawn or run to wards you. If you find yourself round a corner and 
 being chased by enemies, just stand facing that corner, take out your bat and just hold down left-click. 
 Any enemy which pops round the corner gets killed so easily. Any subsequent enemies will follow 
 suit. Very cheap. Very easy AI. What makes this game hard is placement of enemies and that their 
 weapons later on do so much damage.
  
  All in all, this is one great game. Highly recommend people giving this game a go. People should 
 be able to get this game cheap now. Although, graphically this is nothing special, the presentation, 
 the story, action all makes up for it. This game is quite resistant to wear over time.
  
  i rate this 8.9, Great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rainbowsix6666
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 3, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  The game is so great because while your playing, the enemies can just jump at you, and there is 
 lots of cool weapons to play with, and you get to use this slo-mo named Bullet Time . This is the 
 greatest game ever designed! This game has a lot of stuff that is awesome! the demo is ok, but 
 doesnt have all the features of the full game, like the level editor, and you can make your own 
 Max Payne mods in the level editor. The game is about in my book a 10.0! One time during the demo 
 i shot 5 mafia ppl using bullet time with a desert eagle! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deiviuxs
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 30, 2007 8:17 pm PT
Review:  This wasn't my first Max Payne game played. Max Payne 2 was the first game from these series. Because 
 I liked Max Payne 2 and my friend keep telling me to play the first part, I decided to try it...
 
  
  The first Max Payne answered many of my questions that Max Payne 2 left to me. Those two parts 
 are really related in good way. Graphics are pretty good and also funny. The funniest part is when 
 you see how mimics change in the people faces. That looks really funny. So, the graphics are good 
 for the old days when the game was released but know it's not that good at all. The sound is good 
 and the sounds are pretty realistic. The voice of actors are awesome, especially the main character's 
 - Max Payne. The voice is so depressing and deep that you won't shut your ears when you listen 
 to it. Other sound are moderate and well created.
  
  The best part of this game is its story. The story is awesome and you will be involved in the game 
 form the first minute till the last one. The cut scenes are interesting and the comic style cut 
 scenes are interesting. The characters are all related in some way. Some of them will help you, 
 other - will try to destroy you. Thus, this game is an awesome 3rd person shooter with and awesome 
 gameplay and it's unique story. If you are the person who like 3rd person action games and wants 
 a really good story than you should definitely play this game!
  
  P. S. if you want to play Max Payne 2, you should try this game first, so you will have some background 
 when you start the second part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightwarrior179
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  It may have a lot of delays in it's pre-release era, but Max Payne is sure going to leave tremors 
 of it's arrival for a long time to come. The developer might be known for it's Grand Theft Auto 
 but this too is another trademark that Rockstar would be proud of.
  Looking at this game might seem ordinary in anyone's view. But NO! It's not. Max Payne takes all 
 the good things from past hits of third person shooters and adds some major innovations in gameplay 
 and the graphics of cut scenes which pays off nicely. The primary feature and the true beauty of 
 the game is its bullet time. I don't know whether it's thoroughly original or not but it is a hell 
 of a lot fun. The bullet time if you have not figured it already is a basic gameplay element in 
 Max Payne which enables Max, the protagonist to slow down time (or increase his speed theoretically) 
 to shoot dodge his enemies. This enables us to have a good view at the enemies in a room for example 
 who courtesy to the very clever AI shoot you from behind crates if you enter the room normally. 
 Hence, it becomes a basic norm to survival that you shootdodge every time you enter a room or an 
 open area.
  
  The bullet time is a great help because that makes the game quite easy. Without it the game's difficulty 
 would have really risen to a high level. The bullet time increases as you kill more enemies and 
 don't worry there are many of them.
  
  The story kicks off when Max Payne, an NYPD guy finds his peaceful life turned upside down when 
 his wife and his baby are brutally murdered allegedly by the Mafia. Hence begins a walk alone journey 
 where Max revenges his family's murder by eliminating the top Mafia dogs. The cut scenes and the 
 talking sequences are voiced but the change is that instead of usual FMV's there are graphical 
 comic sequences and it feels you're playing a comic movie throughout. The story portrays the reactions 
 of Max in words which are quite negative philosophy and of pessimism. He already seems to be losing 
 his mental battle and you can't help feeling bad for the poor chap.
  
  The music is decent though not of that level you have come to expect from Rockstar. The intriguing 
 music suits the game's mood well but they are nonetheless not too interesting. The voice acting 
 is great and Max is played well by some guy-whose-name-I-do-not-know. Mona and John Lupino are 
 too played well. The game does contain interesting character amidst all tragedy. Mona and Max seem 
 to be a unique couple more of which would be explored in Max Payne 2.
  
  Ending this review I really would like to say that Max Payne is those one of a kind games which 
 usually change the way people think of games! I can't wait to play Max Payne 2. I will play it 
 next month. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rottenjoe
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 18, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is so addictive, compelling, that you will want to play it for years to come. This game 
 starts out with Max payne in the future showing him on top of a building with a 50 calibur sniper 
 rifle.. but why.. thats why this game desides to take you back to when the story began. You use 
 your bullet time and your mad skillz along with your arsenal of weapons of mass DEATH or destruction 
 which ever you prefer.
  
  I bought this game over 1 year ago, and i never got bored. Sure it has lots of Disturbing scenes 
 and weird boss fights and weird people doing weird things from time to time, but that makes this 
 game real.. Just like real life this game is filled with gangs, guns, crazy people, and drugys.. 
 pretty much describes the world.
  
  After you play this game through and finish the story line, and get to the ending scenes, and get 
 throughn into jail. the story ends. Now it is over but what do you do now, you play it again but 
 in a harder difficulty or you get some mods and stuff and play some more.
  
  This game will stay on your selfs and selfs of stores for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 5, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  I have not found anyone who did not like this game.
  My favourite type of game is FPS, and then Adventure game. I play them alternatively depending 
 on the day's mood. However I am recently tired of the stereotype FPS. In 90 percent FPS monsters 
 and aliens are your enemy. All of them use dark environment. The creep factor is used in high dosages. 
 This formula was used again and again from Doom to Halo or Half-Life 2. Hey I loved those titles, 
 but I am simply bored of this approach to games.
  Max Payne on the other hand brought human enemies. Well there are many- but this one is quite dramatic. 
 The dark environment in this game also feels much different than that in, say Halo. The storyline 
 successfully involves you emotionally, pushing you deeper inside the game in a manner that you 
 own Payne's issues. The music helps you bind your emotions further. Plus the occasional puzzles 
 that come in the form of nightmares also solidifies that part. Betrayal and friendships in this 
 game also play a vital role.
  At the heart of the game, its all about kicking butts. Well that has been done quite nicely. I 
 said something about realism in this game -- but you have to overlook the fact that you gotta kill 
 hundreds of enemies (which is not quite realistic. But this is a game -- that's the way it should 
 be) . Otherwise this indeed feels like playing a cop's risky life. This is a masterpiece that should 
 have inspired other games to make story based dramatic (or humourous) action games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agturboninja
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 3, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  Max Payne is one of the greatest 3rd person shooters I had ever played. This was the first game 
 to use bullet time real well. There has been hundreds of games that had featured bullettime in 
 their games and the games sucked and weren't close to Max Payne.
  
  Max Payne is a gritty story of a cop who loses his family and best friend. Then along the way gets 
 used by mobsters to kill other people and finds out who killed his family.
  
  The gameplay, the locations, the music was used very well. It's a Masterpiece. The dream sequences 
 were flat out creepy. If you like a good action game Max Payne is the one to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rocky0902
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 29, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game a few years ago, but just never got around to playing it. Then, a few months 
 ago, i saw it lying there and thought I'd give it a try. Lo and behold, it blew me away. The story 
 captivated me in a way many other games only dream of. One of my favorite game series of all time 
 is the Metal Gear Solid series, thanks in part to those games great story. However, Max Payne's 
 story grabs you in a more realistic way, more like you'd see in a movie.
  
  Playing this game really feels like being in a movie. Sure, the graphics are pretty outdated (especially 
 the animation and character models) but for the time it was groundbreaking photo-realism. My favorite 
 part of the Max Payne's presentation is the bullet effects. They really light up the screen and 
 their's a terrific amount of environmental damage. The sound effects are decent, but the enemy 
 screams can get pretty repetitive. However, it was great to hear the enemy's talking to each other. 
 They have a lot of hilarious conversations, so I definitely recommend taking a break from your 
 killing spree and listening to what they have to say. The gameplay is some of the best I've seen 
 in action games to date. Blowing away enemies in slow motion while diving out from behind cover 
 is a terrific experience. The controls work great, and are, of course, customizable. The game has 
 a great variety of weapons, including dual wielding. Make sure you save up your bulletime for when 
 you need it though, because it often runs out pretty quickly and can only be replenished by killing 
 enemies. I definitely recommend this game to anyone who's a fan of action games. Even though bullettime 
 has been used by many other video games, Max Payne still does it best. The story is gripping, the 
 violence is brutal, and the gameplay is fantastic. What more can I say? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorantula
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2007 10:25 pm PT
Review:  I don't think i've played another PC thats soo polished and perfect as Max Payne. When it was released 
 everyone was just AMAZED and thought The Maxtrix would do bullet time first but that game never 
 lived upto these ones. What just makes it head and shoulders above the rest though is the Storyline 
 and i've never played another game that has such a amazing storyline like this one. It just draws 
 you in and makes you feel like you playing a movies lol.
  
  The gameplay is pretty straight forward shooter and it's just finely polished, theres alot of easter 
 eggs too and funny moments in the game that just really give you a reason to look around. The graphics 
 were AMAZING and there was such amazing attension to detail. Was just something we have never seen 
 before and just perfection.
  
  The soundtrack was great and the guns sounded great and the voice acting was perfect.
  
  Going 
 to keep this review short and sweet so Max Payne is one of the best games i've ever player and 
 you really need to play it if you havn't already. It also brought bullet time into games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naomi_Nakamoto
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 16, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  What you expect from an action game? Great game play and also great story? Well if u expect that 
 then, just play max payne!
  
  Max payne is an action game, 3rd person view, with game play is more like The Matrix! Yes the matrix..... coz 
 its has feature called bullet time. When u use bullet time, u entering the slow motion picture, 
 so u can easily dodge the bullet! U even can see the bullet firing by the bad guy.......... just 
 like matrix..........
  
  Others that make max payne is a great game is the story...... I dont even think can found great 
 detective story in a game, just like movie or novel! GREAT!
  In Max Payne, u play as Max Payne, whom wive and his child was murdered sadistic, and when max 
 payne found a way to catch the murder an unexpected thing happen...... max payne become police most 
 wanted man! A Big conspiracy Happens here.......... While escaping from police chasing, payne also 
 chasing his family murder.......... The only way is kill or killed.......... Chased and Chasing!
 
  
  That two points really make Max Payne a great game........ Just play it by yourself...... and u'll 
 be understand why I call it a great game with great game play and great story line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazook
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 7, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  From my description the reason I said FEAR and Black is because, Max Payne has the messed up history 
 of Max Payne and his nightmares. Then Black because the game has destructible environments which 
 look really good. Here's what I love about this game is that it's also a mix of Sin City the comic 
 or film and Matrix. Since it has an amzing story that surprises the hell out of you. There's even 
 occasional Black Comedy between these gangsters and there conversations. While the game is extremely 
 original, it has bullet-time. Which is awesome altogether, you can dive or just go slow-mo on your 
 own to make wicked Matrix style gun battle never seen before. But there's nothing to tell you why 
 Max Payne has it. Maybe he's a distant relative of Neo's or something. But you won't give a dam, 
 cause this game is too great and fun to not enjoy.
  
  
  
  Gameplay: Although the A. I. doesn't seem like the best the action is so intense it doesn't even 
 matter plus you got the other modes of the game to kick its ass at.
  
  Graphics: In that time the graphics had some of the best lighting effects and textures in engines. 
 So it's definitely a bit dated by now but the game I think makes up for it with bullets flying, 
 plus the blowups and the blood.
  
  Sound: The music is good, but voice acting is much better. Max Payne sounds like how he should 
 sound, so do the other main characters, just from Vinnie Gognittis voice you can tell he's a wuss. 
 Sometimes the sound, sounds dated too as in not freshened up. The sound effects are the best just 
 the roar of the shotgun in slow-mo and other sounds in slow-mo just from activating slow-mo everythnig 
 sounds perfect. There's even some TVs that show TV Shows, basically a bunch of shows based on what's 
 gonig on in the game. They can be really funny and corny, maybe even make you compelled to see 
 that you can sort of listen and play the game.
  
  Value: You know when I finished the game it was too short a film for me. But I think I wanted to 
 just make a fairly long game, to make it look like a long film like the Matrix, since that film 
 was more than 2 hours long. Plus there's the modes and the mods. The mods are the best ever created, 
 I swear. you can get a Katana mod, a matrix mod, even a kung-fu mod. Each one is so awesome.
  
  Tilt: This game is one of the best of all time. When I finished it I wanted more and I got 
 a bit more. I shot and killed everyone involved with the murders of Max Payne's wife and kid. If 
 there was anything that should've been in the game, is a multiplayer mode and a co-op mode they 
 would do so well. The co-op will be Max Payne and Vladimir Lem. Since they're friends in this game. 
 The modes can be the typical deathmatch and CTF, but they could've had like slow-mo versions of 
 those modes like in FEAR. Then some new mode Remedy could made up. I thought of a game where there's 
 two teams. One is the NYPD, the other's could be Vinnies gang. Or the Valkyries. They both have 
 leaders though and sort of sub-commandos. Like Max Payne and Vladimir Lem. The other team could 
 have Vinnie and a Commando leader or some other guys. If the leaders get killed the Sub-Commanders 
 are turned into Leaders. But you'll still need to get some killing some with the police or gangsters 
 or Commandos or Agents depending on which team you're on. Thanks for reading I'm gonna do the Max 
 Payne 2 review now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBlaklyon
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 28, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  I love a game with a great storyline. the over all draw to max payne was the matrix style bullet 
 time ablilty that you could do but what kept me playing was the story. the control was nice, the 
 graphics where good for its time and, I like the fact that it took the bullet time effect away 
 form the matrix series and, did a better job with it. You couldn't become neo but, thats not what 
 this type of game is about anyway. This games focus was on gun battles. get used to dodging and 
 returning fire because this game puts you in the middle of a strom of bullets. But all that aside, 
 the story is what will drive you to finish what you started and, find out what happends at the 
 end. I swear it was like watching a prime time drama... but, with more gun battles. Fans Of noir 
 style story telling or, Frank Miller's Sin City should enjoy this. It would make on hell of a good 
 movie... If done right. This review of mine does not do this game justice. Just play it and you 
 too will understand why this game was the best game of its genre and of its time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oneEnigma
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 10, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  Max Payne is truly a game version of a popcorn-movie , highly enjoyable in the 10+ hours it takes 
 to get thru it the first time. The game is simple to pick up and u will be blazing ur beretta&acute; s 
 in no time, with the game that introduced the bullet-time function. The game follows missions told 
 through a cartoon comic, thats filled with great and movie quality dialogue, but sadly some of 
 the pictures do seem a bit misplaced and takes away some of the seriousness of the story and a 
 lot of the characters also lack the badguy looks, which rather brings a smile on ur lip, rather 
 than the more cold and gritty feel which surrounds the rest of the game. the gameplay mechanics 
 are rather simple and the variation doesnt change thru the game except for 2 prologue missions, 
 which are meant to give a change of pace and deepen the story, they are sadly instead frustrating 
 moments with maze type flow, in which the most frustrating is the one where u follow some blood 
 veins in slow motion and if u fall off them u will be getting an instant death, which really tests 
 ur patience accompanied with ur quickload button. It also have areas that feel a bit too scripted 
 , for example there are places where someone will kill u in 1 shot unless u approach the area in 
 a special way, since the enemy sometimes shoots or detects you on weird situations especially enemies 
 with grenades or shotguns, which will make u reach for your quickload button again. But other than 
 these flaws which are only annoying for short periods and are quickly forgotten, the game is solid 
 all the way thru albeit its simpleness, but manages to have what i call the snatch effects, which 
 is finding something in the game that u will never grow tired of till the end of the game or even 
 further, and with 4 difficulty levels there shud be room for atleast a second go with a a game 
 that 6 years after still has amazing graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playwrite
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 6, 2007 5:12 am PT
Review:  Max Payne was a breath of fresh air in the monotony of action games which clogged up the pipeline 
 like the bodies of too many dead rats. Remedy made for a fine plumber, sending forth a tidal wave 
 of gameplay which was the target of praise among the press and the public.
  
  Some things never change.
  
  The game started with a bang. Max Payne walked into his home, 
 but something was wrong. A symbol on the wall spelled disaster, a large V pierced in the heart 
 by a syringe. He rushed upstairs to find his baby daughter murdered. He heard his wife being shot 
 in the other room, he was to late to help. His revenge on the intruders was swift but not complete. 
 The murder was thrown aside by the cops as a random act of drug related violence, the symbol the 
 sign of a new drug known only as V. He accepted this and dived into an undercover operation trying 
 to find the source of the drug.
  
  3 years later the trail heated up.
  
  Max was framed for the killing of his partner, one of the few people who knew he was undercover. 
 The following night was a kamikaze trip through the underbelly of New York, avoiding the cops while 
 moving ever closer to the culprit through the ranks of the mafia. A few hours and a thousand bullets 
 later, revenge was his.
  
  Max Payne was not your average game. Max was a real character, his enemies not merely automatons 
 but living breathing walls standing between him and his goal. The game was as much about the spiralling, 
 insane nature of his journey as it was about sending the poor thugs and their cruel bosses to their 
 long over-due graves. Of course, business has a strange way of mixing with pleasure for the insane 
 and the dying. The funniest part was how he could slow down the action and observe his handiwork. 
 He flew through the air and struck his enemies, his reflexes heightened by his own desperation. 
 As the man always said, its fear that gives men wings.
  
  The game was not merely a test of surreally enhanced reflexes. It was 1 part action, 2 parts strategy 
 and a shot of luck, shaken to perfection. The chaser was experimentation. Everything was variable. 
 He used the wrong weapon, he moved a split second to early and a shotgun stole his last breath. 
 Luck was on his side as he could replay the same moment over and over until he was satisfied with 
 the result. Each second was beautifully rendered, every object fearing for its continued existence, 
 each bullet an entity searching for its target.
  
  Max was a creature of habit, to worried about the road ahead to learn new tricks. Luckily the path 
 was interesting enough to keep him going, with a new clue at every corner. The killing was never 
 monotonous, the taking of a life should never be taken lightly. Every body was a step closer to 
 the truth.
  
  The game had an air about it that reminded you that no matter what you did the damage was done, 
 all there was to do was to move forward and avenge the past all the while trying to forget it. 
 Sometimes Max received shots of the drug that had gotten him into this mess. This sent him into 
 a tailspin of chaotic nightmares, following a literal trail of blood, contrasted to his stark reality. 
 These moments were a frustrating clich&eacute; but served to remind him of the wrong he was trying 
 to right. They were necessary for the atmosphere which was as set up as he was. A brutal snow storm 
 was a reminder of the cruelty of the world and the chaos Max had been unwilling cast into.
  
  The game was as much a tale of blood bathed revenge as it was a study of Maxs sane but confused 
 psyche. The story was told through an introverted series of remarks, always from his perspective. 
 The atmosphere was maintained through a series of comic strips which contained a calm telling of 
 his story. They were beautiful portraits of an ugly night.
  
  The game also had a twisted sense of humour. At times the gritty tale could strike fear in the 
 hearts of men, at others the game seemed to be mocking itself, thugs striking up conversations 
 on absurd topics or Max sending the fourth wall as a fall guy on his quest for vengeance.
  
  Max Paynes trip through the dual hells of New York and his own past was a sickly beautiful 
 tale. It had been a difficult journey, but the truth was finally in his grasp. He surrendered to 
 the police, the deed was done and he had nothing left to fight for. As he slipped into the night 
 in the back of a police car the storm cleared, the chaos finally subsided. He smiled. The smile 
 of a winner. That made two of us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PerfectJones
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 25, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  It was not too long ago when I bought Max Payne bundled with Mafia in a gamestop store. Together 
 they were less than 10 bucks and I thought, what the heck. So I bought them. I wasn't a huge fan 
 of action games like this at the time but reading the reviews and being curious I gave it a shot. 
 I am pleased to say that this game was worth all that I spent on it. Being the gamer I was I had 
 purchased many games before Max Payne, but ironically they were often too long and/or too repetitive 
 for me to complete. Max Payne was such a great game though that I played it all the way through 
 and never was really dissapointed with it. And so, even though this might not effect your view 
 of the game that much it says alot about the quality of the game to me. Max Payne was one hell 
 of an experience to me. The game has a great story in which you (Max Payne) loses everything-his 
 wife, child, and best friend- to a corrupt corporation that is behind alot of the crime of New 
 York, much of which could rip it apart. Because Max has lost eveything he wants to find out who's 
 behind all of this and gain revenge. Sure, you might say, what's so great about that? Well the 
 plot thickens (using a graphic novel medium) and gets very intricate and interesting as you play 
 the game. You see what I'm saying? Max Payne is not just an ordinary action game, but it's one 
 with an excellent story and great graphics, controls, features (bullet time, etc) and other things. 
 To put it simply yet adequately, Max Payne is just a great game done right. But Max Payne is also 
 a very gritty game. This is a game I do not recommend to people younger than 15 or who generally 
 shun violent games. It's not that the game is particularily gory, bloody, or full of foul language; 
 personally I think it's pretty tame for an M rated game (except that there's a lot of shooting) . 
 It's just that the story, which is so well laid out and effects the experience of the game itself 
 dramatically, is gritty. This is the point of the game, I understand, but if you are more for easy 
 hearted and less turbulent action games, Max Payne will probably not be a game you will enjoy. 
 It takes an open mind and conscience to understand and enjoy this game. Perhaps this is the only 
 fault of this game- that it's not open to everyone to enjoy. But for those of us who can, we will 
 appreciate it's style, its story, and the general completeness of a great game done right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prince_elad_69
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2006 8:23 am PT
Review:  this amazing game wich goes by the name of Max Payne is a gift from god to your PC and if you dont 
 have this game yet you should stop everithing your doing and go and buy this game (after you read 
 my review) because you wont regrat and i bet you will thank me later]
  
  GRAPHICS: wow!!! (not the game) the graphics in this game is just plain fun for your eyes and takes 
 all the other games in his little pocket in the back of his jeans
  
  SOUND: revolutinary like the game the sound is one of the best and takes a very importante part 
 of the game and will take you inside the screen to the life of max payne
  
  GAMEPLAY: no dout that this game has a very special gameplay because not only that you will brake 
 into a bank in one level you have olso intense action parts that wont make you shut your eyes untill 
 you will kill every one in your sight and there is olso a chase part in the game were you chase 
 a gangster who ranawey from you and you as a hard biold cop want to take him alavie ask him questions 
 and than kill the jerk and the nightmare level (nightmares that your charechter will have throw 
 the game) the nightmare level that they are a really good bonus to the game and are really beutifull 
 bonus to the game that will make dry your eye from joy
  
  this game is one of the best things that happend to me and i reccomend to buy this game right now... stop 
 riding and go and buy this game dammet!!!
  
  BUY BUY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: disowned
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 22, 2006 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Among the finest of games out there, i'd rather be playing this than some of the next-gen bull 
 crap that's coming out now. I got this when it came out on ps2 and It is fantastic. The game play 
 was repetitive but addictive, and I think in this case the two went hand-in-hand. Entering bullet-time 
 and watching tiny bullets whiz past your shoulder as you pump a thug full of lead is one of the 
 most satisfying things I've ever seen in a game. Lot's of games have slo-mo now but Max Payne really 
 delivered it well. What stands out the most about Max Payne however, is the storyline. It's a great 
 story with twists and turns for you to follow, and enough witty dialogue for you to get sick of. 
 I mean, Max Payne's got a whole repertoire that can maybe challenge that of James Bond. The game 
 leaves you satisfied at the end, but has enough replay value to continue with for a long time. 
 However, I mentioned repetition. When you die in a scene you have to load the whole scene over 
 and start over again. This is the only thing that can get a little tedious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 18, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Loved it. This game just rocked.
  
  I love moody gritty scary games. I want my first person shooters to scare me. I want ambiance d@#$it! 
 This game delivered.
  
  The gritty comic book film noir style was just brilliant. The seeds underworld action was sweet. 
 The bullet time gun fighting was badass.
  
  But don't play it for the action necessarily. The action is great, but play this game because it's 
 just an amazing game with a great vision. Play it because it's different and has a great story. 
 Play it because it sucks you in. Play it cause it's totally sweet.
  
  Still need to play the second one. Here's hoping it's just as good, but I'm not holding my breath.
 
  
  Why can't more games be this gritty, and really make it work? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krasas
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 17, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  The original Max Payne game is one of the best games in my collection.
  The story is very intriguing and it's narrated through graphic novels, cut-scenes and also through 
 the 'in media res' narration technique. This means that the game actually starts at a point near 
 the end and then Max Payne starts unfolding his story to the player to explain how he reached his 
 current status, standing on the edge of the roof of a skyscraper building surrounded by police 
 cars and helicopters!
  
  The game makes very good use of the slow-motion features, allowing the player to better aim and 
 shoot more enemies in difficult situations. While in slow motion the experience is amazing! Max 
 can also shoot dodge while pulling some really cool maneuvers. Also there is a very good choice 
 of weaponry, from melee weapons, to grenade launchers and snipper rifle. The game has an inventive 
 way of providing these weapons to the player and realistically removing them from him at some parts 
 when it would get too easy for the player getting through levels having all the weapons.
  
  The music in the game is very atmospheric and the recurring main theme sticks very well and never 
 gets annoying. The sound though could be more elaborate and accurate. Many times it sounds muffled 
 (especially sound fx such as guns or bullet hits) .
  
  The game's graphics are amazing. Probably they fall behind compared to today's state of the art 
 graphics, but still they are really convincing and all the levels are realistic to a mind blowing 
 level. I remember visiting an underground parking in real life for the first time, and noting a 
 weird feeling that I had been there before, only to realize that this was due to playing the underground 
 parking level in Max Payne!!! The story is told really well. The graphic novels are very interesting 
 and often contain really witty dialogue. There are also some levels (2) where Max falls in a lethargic 
 state, and must go through dream-like (or nightmarish) worlds that his subconscious creates. In 
 the end everything falls into place, and although there is really no happy ending, the player will 
 get retribution. As far as the game's replay value, I did not find much interest in replaying the 
 extra difficulty modes provided by the game itself. However, there are plenty Max Payne 1 mods 
 released which will unlock game levels and the extra bonus level in the finale. Also, there are 
 mods which give Max kun gfu and kat ana moves, enhance the game's fx, give more weapons, mods that 
 totally convert Max Payne to an entirely different game and finally mods that will expand the Max 
 Payne story. One should have a look into this mods, as they probably are some of the best modifications 
 for a game of this genre.
  
  Overall, this game today might lack the originality factor that weighed heavy at its times, but 
 it is still wonderfully captivating, it has an excellent design in all the fields that count and 
 a very good replay value. Don't ever make the mistake to disregard it if you have not tried it 
 yet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sarcadoz
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 10, 2006 5:17 am PT
Review:  Max Payne obviously is one of the best action games ever made combining smooth well-paced gameplay 
 with a deep, dark and twisted storyline.
  
  Compared to current 3rd person shooters Max Payne is still superior in a few aspects such as the 
 fluent gameplay, original use of special moves (e. g. bullet time) and the great presentation and 
 implementation of its storyline.
  
  You play Max Payne, a tough but fallen hero, on a path of revenge after his wife and baby girl 
 were killed by crazy junkies high on a new designer drug called 'Valkyr'. Going undercover as a 
 D. E. A. agent you continuously brawl and shoot your way to the source of the pain. And exactly this 
 is what makes this classic so great. Lots of enemies + lots of guns = lots of fun. Especially the 
 revolutionary use of the bullet-time effect (thanks John Woo &amp; Matrix) which allows the player 
 to shootdodge and aim more precise in slow-motion makes firefights more spectacular and keeps Max 
 alive in close encounters.
  
  Graphics are still quite nice even compared to todays standards. Back then they were amazing of 
 course. The incredible amount of detail like bullet-holes, blood stains and remains of a gun battle 
 (clips, empty shells) was not as usual back then as it is today and the game still plays very nice 
 even if you are spoilt by current graphic engines.
  
  The storyline is presented as a graphic novel with great voice acting and amazing dialogues. This 
 reminds the player of the film noir genre and creates a dark and melancholic mood throughout the 
 whole game. This keeps you playing for a long time because you really get an idea of what's going 
 on in Noir York City.
  
  Speaking of sound, the game's soundtrack is used only in special occasions (like boss fights) which 
 makes it even more powerful. You still remember the main theme (composed by a member of Apocalyptica) 
 even after years have passed.
  
  The only drawback I could possibly think of is the lack of a multiplayer mode. But think about 
 that: How could you realise Max Payne for multiple players. How would you be supposed to use bullet-time? 
 From that point of view it's not really necessary at all and I also don't include this in my rating. 
 Having a multiplayer mode would only ruin the great unique feeling of this game.
  
  No matter if you are a hardcore action fan or not, if you don't own a copy of Max Payne yet, go 
 buy this classic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leredab
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 5, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Okay! It's true that I should have written this review a couple of years ago. This game is old 
 now. But it is still one, AMAZING game. Even if you live in 2006, and you never played it, I suggest 
 it.
  
  Graphically, I say it is great, since it came out in 2001 and not in 2006. True, there are quiet 
 a few problems: Lack of details everywhere, explosions are not well done.. ect.... But the feeling 
 you have when you play is awesome. Specially when you do the matrix and stuff!
  The ennemies are not so stupid for an old game. I must say that they are more intelligent then 
 the Punisher's ennemies (2005) .
  
  The souns are good too. Nicely made. There is some music and a lot of talking... Nice..
  
  
 So, lets not make this review too long, and finish it off:
  Get this game and play it. It will transport you to New York and you will live a lot of adventures! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yo_foo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 25, 2006 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne - A man with nothing left to loose. That's the summary of the game. But it's not just 
 something you've all seen and heard before. Oh no. It's a shooter with a difference.
  
  The story is told in comic book form, brilliantly narrated by Max Payne. The voices are absolutely 
 sensational and really evoke the mood of the game. Max Payne's wife and child have been murdered 
 and his partner is dead as he has been framed for his murder. Max must then go on an adventure 
 and find out everything. The story's twists and turns are unexpected and engaging.
  
  The game is a third person shooter. Now this could be quite a boring trawl but there is a sweet 
 feature called bullet-time where with the press of a button, time slows down and you can dodge 
 bullets with ease. But this doesn't make the game easier, as there is a set amount of time that 
 you can use it and to fill up the bullet time meter you must kill enemies. There are some excruciating 
 moments in the game such as the mazes which can be frustrating but to punish the game because of 
 this is just too harsh.
  
  The graphics were amazing at the time and the comic book art is sensational. The environment is 
 gritty and atmospheric and also haunting. The game has limited lastability however that is the 
 case with all shooters.
  
  It's a must have game and is a lot better than most of its rivals out there.
  
  :' ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DREU66
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 22, 2006 7:29 am PT
Review:  ThisThis one of the best game I have ever played. The history, the bullet time, the character all 
 makes it near to be perfect. I have enjoyed a lot of hours and have spend many of my free time 
 trying to finish the different missions of the game, but it isnt loose time, the game is fantastic.
 
  
  When I played it, a few years ago, Max Payne was a fresh air; it was absolutely innovative, revolutionary 
 and intensive. I think is a classic, this kind of game that you always remember.
  
  If you havent played Max Payne, take money , look for it and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tybalt7
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 31, 2006 1:38 am PT
Review:  Max Payne is a tough New York cop whose family are brutally murdered AND is subsequently framed 
 for an elaborate crime, your job as Max is to find the truth and kill the bad guys.
  
  The game engine for Max Payne is truly inspiring... you make your way through the dingy back streets, 
 hunting down the bad guys and searching for the truth all in third person. The aspect which most 
 impresses me about Max Payne is the bullet time, a tap on the right mouse button allows you to 
 enter a Matrix style slow down, just like all good John Woo thrillers, where your enemies move 
 in slow motion, while you can still aim at the same pace as usual. This gives you a definite advantage, 
 but the use of bullet time is restricted, and can only be replenished by offing a few baddies.
 
  
  The enemy AI is also very well done, they'll flank you, use grenades and take cover... and the game 
 includes a continually updating difficulty dynamic, to make sure it's neither too easy or too frustratingly 
 difficult.
  
  The graphics are dark and involving, allowing you to feel the tension, the bullets all get trails 
 during bullet time, adding to the wonder. The in game cut scenes are also very nice, a kind of 
 graphic novel feel to them.
  
  The sound fits in nicely too, there are numerous interjections of Max's gruff, I've just about 
 had enough, voice and satisfying blasts from the wide variety of weapons that all add to the tension.
 
  
  If I could think of one let down for Max Payne it's the value, the game, though extremely good 
 fun to play, just isn't long enough, and the extras you gain by completing the game are just essentially 
 the same thing, but harder.
  
  I really enjoyed Max Payne, nothing quite prepares you for just how awe-inspiring the first trip 
 into bullet time really is, but it just became a bit too repetitive. Well worth a look though. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fahad2mail
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 20, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  it seems that max payne change the 3rd person shooting games history. thanks to remedy entertainment, for 
 giving us such a nice game. for ur kind information, max payne have completely different gameplay 
 n storyline. the way game continue is really amazing. here we see a story book with pic just like 
 a comic with live commentary. u can also see the cutseen bt main is that epic comic based story 
 line. dn laugh! the story is attracting too. here our hero max is a fallen police office (NYPD) . who 
 betrayed with everyone, himself also. cause of bad luck. so he try to find out who did this to him. u 
 have to go many places for ur revenge mission! here remedy take one more step. they introduced us 
 bullet time as like as matrix movie. u can activate bullet time to slow the time n dodge n strike 
 the enemy though it is limited. this is the 1st time that bullet time concept successfully used 
 in a game after the movie. u can also use many devastating weapon to kill ur enemy. n u can held 
 some of this weapon at ur both hand also. some sort of climax here. i will not bother u to tell that. think 
 u should play the game to know that lol...... the graphycs an sound are good bt can be better. for 
 ur kind information, i am bangladeshi n english is my 2nd language. so forgive me abt my spelling 
 or grammatical mistake. take care all...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadskies
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 19, 2006 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne, a very great action game, in many respects, here is why:
  
  Graphics: Great at its time and good to todays standard, everything is well done, the enviroments 
 are rather large and nicely detailed. I cant find any single complaint in the graphics compartment.
 
  
  Sound: THE BEST THEME SONG EVER. Now that's over, the music is great, but its not too much. There 
 are times where its silence, which is good, but when it does have music, its great. the voice acting 
 is PERFECT, same with the sound effects.
  
  Gameplay: Best gameplay ever. It combines third person shooting aspects with bullet time [matrix-style 
 effects] . It also adjusts difficulty based on how you are doing, so if you are doing bad, the difficulty 
 will turn down, if you are owning everyone then it will go higher, it's just right for pretty much 
 every person, how every game should be. It also has higher difficulty settings as well.
  
  Story: Amazing, rather realistiic too, I wont say anythign to spoil it, it's just great, with a 
 great cast of characters and many twists and turns.
  
  Replay value: Tons of it, the games around 15 hours at the most, but it gives you many reasons 
 to go back, with higher difficulty and all of that.
  
  Bottom line: A must have, for any fan of action games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LonnieMitchell
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 9, 2006 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Okay.... Max Payne the original. Well, I can honestly say that it was a little bit different than 
 what I had anticipated. I acquired the game through a friend and didn't know anything about it 
 before playing it. I was a little surprised to see the cutscenes in a storyboard format. It was 
 like reading through a comic book during these parts. The rest of the game is just a standard fps 
 where you take out the bad guys with every weapon you can find. You get the option to switch to 
 another player character at certain points of the game (few) for a single scene until you are back 
 as Max. I enjoyed the game, but I was a bit shy on the dream sequences. During the game Max falls 
 asleep or gets knocked out at times and you have to work the next level as a dream world representation 
 of the real world. All in all I believe I would recommend checking this game out, but only if it 
 was on the bargin bin or if you can get it through a friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rome_212
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 25, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Wow, that's all I got to say! This game is freakin' SWEET!!!!! This is easily one of the best games 
 ever made for the PC. The game is packed with all sorts of cool stuff. The story is great, and 
 the best part is the action! Max can go into Bullet Time! That's totally awesome!!!! The weapons 
 are cool too. The graphics are great!! They are slick and nicely detailed. The character models 
 are amazing, and so is everything around you. The voice acting is simply brilliant, and the sound 
 effects are plain superb. The alarm at the bank was sorta' annoying, but just shoot it to shut 
 it up. Overall this was one hell of a PC game that was amazing from the beginning to the end. Buy 
 it if you have a PC!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insaneassclown
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 26, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne is one of those rare games that are easy to get into and highly addictive at the very 
 first second you play. It's really getting harder and harder to tell what kind of games you would 
 found amazing when you first get into. That's very disappointing when you just spent 50 dollars 
 on a game that you were betting on good game review on. In Max Payne, almost everything in the 
 game is priceless. The shooting/combat is so fast paced and oh sooo fun. The storyline could easily 
 stand on its own. Voice acting is amazing. Graphics could have been alittle better because the 
 engine really look GTA: III. However this game is somewhat underrated. WHY??! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FeDeXeP
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 21, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  Max Payne is a great game for the ones want something original, its really hard to describe but 
 i really prefer MP2, but its better you play this one before Max Payne 2. The graphics are not too 
 god, thinking that in 2000 Hitman: Codename 47 got huges graphics and this game has been release 
 en 2001, but the graphics pass the test. The sounds are excellent just like the Bullettime, I love 
 the sound of this game but something great was the story and bullettime, be that men with nothing 
 to lose, and with many time to kill the enemies, really super. A great fail of the game was the short, in 
 6 hours I pass it, and also the lineal thing, the only thing you gotta do is kill every one and pass 
 through the only open door, something repeated in Max Payne 2 (I hope that will be fix in the incoming 
 MP3) .
  But anyway MP is a outstanding and original game, like i said, its really hard to describe so original 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dope999
Rating: 7.4
Date: Sep 12, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  (Ive played Max Payne 2 years before Ive played this game, so excuse me if I compare the two 
 games sometimes.)
  All right, Ive learned one thing while playing Max Payne: Never I your life, you should play a 
 sequel before you play the original game! In most situations, you get awfully disappointed or maybe 
 you even want to shoot yourself in the head! All right, thats too extreme, I know, but I hope 
 you get the point.
  
  The game is about Max Payne, a normal NYPD cop that gets home from work but somethings not right. 
 You hear screams and suddenly you find your baby girl shot dead in the cradle, and your house is 
 filled with overdosed maniacs. You kill them but you find your wife lying dead in the bed. All 
 of this had something to do with the designer drug V. You transfer to the DEA to find those who 
 are responsible for this: in the criminal underground of New York. Although on the outside, the 
 gameplay has some cool aspects and may sound totally awesome. Well for some it is awesome, cool 
 and so forth, but Im very disappointed. Many people played Max Payne 2 before they played the 
 original game. And by the way youll also hear that the original game is so much better. But it 
 isnt!
  Max Payne was the first game to introduce bullet-time and shoot dodging. This is very cool although 
 sometimes is cause more problems than it help you. When you shoot dodge, time slows down and everything 
 around is in slow motion and that gives you more time to kill your enemies. But when have killed 
 1 or 2 enemies you lay on the ground unable to fight back, since you have to stand up before you 
 can shoot again. This little problem gives your enemies enough time to kill you. So dont shoot 
 dodge if theres more than 2 enemies. The bullet-time effect makes you capable of slowing time 
 down while you running around shooting people. The bullet-time is limited with a sand hourglass. 
 When you kill an enemy, you are given 2 seconds of bullet-time for you to use. Theres only a little 
 problem: When you disable the bullet-time, then dont run around while doing this. If you do, then 
 youre making a shoot dodge move, and that drains you bullet-time. Its really ridiculous.
  Enemy artificial intelligence (AI) is very good although sometimes theyre too good. But anyways, 
 you cant blame the enemy AI for you dying very easy. You can say that is realistic that you only 
 need a few bullets in your body for you to die. But in a game like Max Payne, you want to see and 
 feel the mood in the game by shoot dodging and so forth. But the game makes that impossible unfortunately.
 
  The game levels are also a big screw up in the game. In Max Payne 2 theres a lot of memorable 
 moments is some of the levels. But in Max Payne the levels are boring and non-detailed. All right, 
 maybe a few levels are fun and intense, but not that much. A huge disappointment. I think thats 
 enough the gameplay already.
  The graphics has its ups and downs. For example, the enemies are not very detailed and so are the 
 levels too. The weapons are probably the worst Ive ever seen and the weapons menu line sucks. 
 But somehow you manage through the game to ignore these minor problems and glitches. But I think 
 its my duty to go into details. The cartoon-like graphic novels are something completely new in 
 the gaming world, and actually they look great. The drawings are very life-like and create a good 
 mood. You can say that the graphic novels are the major cutscenes, but theres some cutscenes, 
 which is actually very well done. Theyre intense and also very life-like. And look good too.
 
  
  The sound can be very remarkable, but the sound is somehow very neutral. There arent any moments 
 where you can say: Damn, that sounds awesome! Although, the voiceovers and character personalities 
 is very remarkable. Its actually like your watching a movie of some sort. The weapons sounds are 
 like you know them; normal and nothing special at all. But when youre in a firefight, it feels 
 very life-like.
  The music is actually very good, especially the menu music. It creates this sad mood, since Max 
 is actually in a sad situation with his wife and so forth. The game music is neutral, but when 
 a serious firefight is coming, the music gets intense. This is very cool and its actually something 
 I really miss in the sequel. Here comes the saddest part of the review. The value. Max Payne is 
 known for being one of the greatest, but shortest game of them all. You quickly finish Max Payne 
 with this disappointed feeling. Although there are 3 chapters with 7-9 parts, the levels are quickly 
 completed. Max Payne is unfortunately one of those games, where you can run around shooting people 
 whenever you like to. Max Payne is actually a little tough to play since you die really easy. When 
 you finish the game, youre given the opportunity to play the game again in a harder difficulty. 
 Only the most hardcore fans of Max Payne would play this again. I wont, although Im a serious 
 Max Payne fan. But I think, I keep playing the sequel.
  
  If youre looking for a quick game to finish, but also a very intense thrill to ride, then Max 
 Payne is the game. I recommend that you play this game first, before you play the sequel. You have 
 to feel and play the first game, before you can get surprised by how much better the sequel is. 
 Thats my recommendation. Over and out. At ease!
  
  Dope999 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morphieous
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 4, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne (PC)
  
  Introduction
  
  By far this is one of the best third person shooters of all time. In this game you play Max Payne 
 a rebel cop who is seeking revenge on the people who had his family murdered. This is a game full 
 of depth and style. Bullet time really pushes this third person shooter to fullest and it makes 
 this game entertaining and fun. Even with not much guns in your arsenal this game never loses its 
 style.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The fact that you could slow down time really does the trick. Dodging bullets were never this fun 
 and never this well done. You will find yourself playing over levels just for the thrill of killing 
 over baddies. The guns aren't all that much and you can win the whole game by just using pistols. 
 But there is just something about this game that gets you hooked on it.
  
  This game also has amazingly good controls for a third person shooter. Controlling Max Payne is 
 relatively easy and it isn't that hard to get into for beginners. Aiming is so easy and turning 
 on bullet time isn't much of a task (Enter the Matrix) .
  
  This game also has different difficulty levels to be unlocked. So it makes you want to play levels 
 over and over until you have unlocked everything. This is a great way to give you more game time 
 and have you still playing even after the game is completed.
  
  One of the problems I had with this game are the levels. They are so basic and they have no real 
 variety. Sure they are well designed but it just seems too basic. First there is a subway station, 
 a bar, houses, and buildings. Not saying there is not variety here it's just that most of the levels 
 feel the same.
  Another thing was that on some of the PC systems this game runs on it crashes after you finish 
 one level. And to fix this you have to go to the website and download a patch. This problem can 
 be fixed but it still is a huge problem.
  
  Visuals
  
  The cutscenes in this game are actually mostly some type of comic strips that look amazing. They 
 would have you asking yourself if those are real people or not. Also what I liked was how great 
 the bullet time looked. You would see bullets flying past you and it would look so great and so 
 slick. And when you kill someone they sometimes die in this slow motion death and that looks really 
 cool.
  
  Sound
  
  This game doesn't have much music in it. But it has sound effects that are really well done. When 
 you fire say a shotgun you actually feel like your holding it in your hands. The effects sound 
 so real. All the gunshots sound different, all the pistols sound different unlike some shooters 
 that just use the same pistol sound for all. The voice acting is also really good they make you 
 feel like this is a movie you are watching and not a cutscene.
  
  Overall
  
  This game has everything an action game truly needs and hardly gets. This is how a real third person 
 shooter should be done. Max Payne is truly an awesome game that will have you on the computer for 
 hours.
  
  You should pick this one up even if you don't like third person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sat_purush
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 4, 2006 3:55 pm PT
Review:  A must have for any pc gamer. A dark, gritty, comic book feel, with great action and bullet time.
 
  This game is a blast! Despite its age, it is still one of the better games out. The story is great 
 and comic book fans will find the cutscenes entertaining.
  
  The gameplay is great, bullet time is always fun, and the game has a good amount of replayability. 
 I have beat very few of the actual games I own , but this is one I couldn't stop playing.
  
  Plus the random flashback, trauma/drug induced hazes are fun: playing it late at night and 
 suddenly there I was in some level dripping blood and this random lattice of bloodlines stretching 
 out over an abyss, with babies crying in the background.... nice and creepy
  
  buy this game if you see it in bargain bin, should cost next to nothing these days 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anarki983
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2006 5:36 am PT
Review:  As soon as I started to play max payne, it was one of my favorite games. The storyline in it is 
 awesome, the sound is great, and the gameplay is what I love about it. Personally, the storyline 
 was the best part in the entire game! Although it's a little short is what made me mad about it. 
 I beat it in two days, Remedy needed to make the game longer than that, which is dissapointing 
 about it. Yes, Max Payne has some downsides, But Iove all the blood when you shoot the opponent. 
 You can shoot your opponent to death, beat him with a baseball bat, light him on fire with a molotov 
 cocktail, or blow him up with a grenade. Just one last thing I have to say about it, Max Payne 
 is a must have game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bpmf
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2006 12:48 am PT
Review:  MAX PAYNE........ THE MAN WHO WAS A HERO COP WITH LOVELY WIFE AND A CHILD UNTIL.............
  MAX PAYNE WIFE AND CHILD WERE MURDERED BY THE HANDS OF CRIMINALS.
  SO MAX PAYNE REVENGE HIS FAMILY 
 AND GOOD FRIEND WHO ALSO WAS MURDERED BY SOME KIND OF A CRIMINAL BUT HIS NOT ALONE MANY PEOPLE 
 HELPED HIM IN HIS WAY FOR EXAMPLE: MONA SEX ; VLADIMIR LEN {THE RUSSIAN MOB BOSS} AND MANY MORE,,,,,,,,,
 
  
  IN THE END I WONT TELL U BECAUSE THERE SOME PEOPLE WHO DIDNT PLAYED THE GAME.
  THE GAME IS REALLY GOOD VERY NICE THE STORY IS PERFECT; THE SOUND IS ALSO GOOD; THE IDEA OF THE 
 BULLET TIME IS REALLY UNBELIEVABLE. NICE GRAPHICS.
  ONE OF MY FAVORITES AND BEST GAMES I EVER PLAYED SO I HARDLY RECOMMENDED THE GAME.
  AFTER THIS 
 ONE I ALSO RECOMMEND THE CONTINUE GAME AND AFTER THIS ONE U CAN WAIT UNTIL THE THIRD GAME IS COMPLETE. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 21, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  The game that first brought out bullet time in games... Max Payne to this day keeps players entertained 
 with it's great story and action sequences...
  
  The GOOD: Awesome voice acting, graphics novel (Comic strip) style story telling, well planned 
 plot and good story which keeps a player going till the end. Good graphics for a game that came 
 out in 2001. Good fight sequences which makes you feel like your in a movie scean. Good controls.
 
  
  The BAD: Some times the places look the same, different textures but same type of room. Should 
 have had the other difficulty levels unlocked at the beginning. Not much of a replay value, not 
 many puzzles and the puzzles that are there isnt that much of a challenge. Some may feel like they 
 are playing an arcade game, because most of the game is just shooting.
  
  Overall very good story and good effort to make a classic game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkViper1
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 6, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  I know its a old game now, but recently i decided to actually buy a copy of this game (only &pound;5) 
 i had played before but i only borrowed it a while back. I mainly bought it because i was bored 
 and i must say it has kept me company good!
  
  Gameplay - 9
  
  There has been a lot of stuff like this now, but its still a solid and fun gameplay, if hard, but 
 whether you have cheats on or not, its still mighty satisfying.
  
  Graphics - 8
  
  For a game that was made in 2001, the graphics in the game are impressive, though i certaintly 
 cant give graphics a 10, especially when Max has a ridiculous face, lol still got to like him though.
 
  
  Sound - 8
  
  Pretty decent, nothing amazing, nothing bad
  
  Value - 8
  
  There is some value to be found in this game, i am dissapointed in how short it is since blasting 
 enemies away in bullet time doesnt get tiring. However you will probably enjoy going over some 
 levels a few more times and also their are various mods and maps that can be installed, including 
 cool kung-fu and matrix mods.
  
  Overall - 8.9
  
  Defintly worth playing still today, if your bored then this is worth buying, its at a cheap price 
 now and offers hours of fun and challenging gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vorlon92
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 26, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  This game is a blast! Despite its age, it is still one of the better games out. The story is great 
 and comic book fans will find the cutscenes entertaining. 
  
  The gameplay is great, bullet time is always fun, and the game has a good amount of replayability. 
 I have beat very few of the actual games I own , but this is one I couldn't stop playing.
  
  Plus the random flashback, trauma/drug induced hazes are fun: playing it late at night and 
 suddenly there I was in some level dripping blood and this random lattice of bloodlines stretching 
 out over an abyss, with babies crying in the background.... nice and creepy
  
  buy this game if you see it in bargain bin, should cost next to nothing these days 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evil-e-man
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 18, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  This rating is taking into effect what machines were like at the time the game was originally released, 
 it's ground breaking bullet time history and recent replay value:
  
  This game still has replay value... i know, most are bored with 'older' games visuals, but this 
 is the game that started me upon my 'PC is god kick!' So, i am here to give Max Payne it's props! 
 It is the game that has left me with fond memories and was made for a 486 intel chip! Yep, a 4800x2 
 and two 7800's later... still a decent game
  
  At the time of it's release, it was THE GAME, and just like i still like to ride an older model 
 of motorcycle, this was actually fun to play again 4-06. A fantastic game for those of us who cannot 
 afford a pricey system or got the family hand me down!
  (like my wife did!)
  
  Lots of "Did you SEE that!" moments too!
  
  When i first got my copy (waybackwhen) it was a 
 10, yep... that's my story and i'm sticking to it! Although, if it came out last month i don't 
 think i'd give it such a generous score... but then again just like if any of Jimmy Hendrix's albums 
 were just released i think we'd see the complete value of voice, story and gameplay/musicplay and 
 it's combined value!
  
  I think it should go down in PC gaming history... and maybe dream up a better #2? Maybe a story 
 line that combines it's raw 40's ish dialog with the flashy sexy blood (less) kills and game play 
 of Vampires: the masquerade... the online possibilities are endless!!!
  
  Thank you for your time,
  
  evile 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beavisbond
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 17, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne is already a classic since it was released for the PC. It is such a great game in many 
 many ways!
  
  Gameplay = 10/10 --- I remember seeing the trailer for this game over and over again, just dreaming 
 that I would play this game some day. Well that day came (around the time it was released) when 
 I first played this game. I was so amazed by the gameplay. And using Bullet Time was one of the 
 great parts of playing this. It's not just the gameplay that I love, It's the storyline that I 
 love to. Max Paynes family has been killed, gets transfered to the DEA to find those that killed 
 his family. Then he gets framed for the death of his partner. As you play the game the story goes 
 way much deeper and it does get exciting!
  
  Graphics = 10/10 --- In this game when it was released in 2001 it had excellent graphics. I can 
 see why. Rockstar games added a lot of texture and shadows to make it look like a place you don't 
 want to go in your life!
  
  Sound = 9/10 --- I can't say it has perfect sound. Because I know that I have heard better. But 
 the sound in this game is great. 
  
  Value = 9/10 --- If you are a huge FPS or TPS gamer, then you should own this game. Because it 
 is a really great game. And it is one of my favorites. 
  
  Reviewers Tilt = 10/10 --- I have to agree with every reviews that has been given to this game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taekwondokid
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 14, 2006 6:08 am PT
Review:  i dont know how to start this.. so i will go in this way. i will tell what is good, what is bad, 
 and what is confusing in this game...
  
  (+) GOOOOOOOD :)
  +very good story
  +good action
  +a hard game (most people likes hard games)
  +lots of guns
  +you have like a 
 slow motion (coool)
  +nice graphics
  +good environment
  +playable outside the buildings (streets) too (out of boring buildings)
  +cheap (price) game
  
 + very nice sound
  + a good game control and gameplay
  + can controll some un-needed stuff (open tv, play radio, get a pop...)
  
  (-) BAAAAAAD : (
 
  - very short game
  -lots of glitches
  -some however gets boring (after playing a long time)
  -playing all by yourself (nobody helps you 
 in the game)
  -wierd story in the beginning
  -sometimes feels like PS1 graphics
  - (the horibble thing) they used frozen pictures for the character's faces (there are 3 different 
 pictures of faces of all the characters ; normal, dead, and fighting)
  
  (~) QUESTIONSSSSSS FINISHING THE GAME @_@
  ~ why there isnt any multiplayer???
  ~was Max Payne 
 the murder of everything???
  ~did everything come from Max Payne???
  
  well this is all i can help on. from now its your choice of buying/playing the game. I HOPE I HELPED 
 YOU. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabi67
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 9, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  I liked this shooter a lot. An instant classic. Im not a shooter maniac but i had my share of shooters 
 and i think im entitled to say that this one is amazing, so amazing that no other has toped this 
 one.
  
  The visual effects are revolutionary, the matrix style perspective of the game is a touch of genius 
 and it makes this shooter the most interesting one i ever laid my hands on.
  
  The story line is solid, very elaborated, it has everything a good crime movie should have, and thats 
 what this game is, a crime movie. You enter in the skin of detective Max Payne and embark on a journey 
 of suspense, crimes, tragedy and revenge. I would like to tell you more but you have to find out for 
 you're selves.
  
  The soundtrack makes the game more intense so thats a big plus because it fits with the rest of 
 the game like a glove. The world you will find you're selves in is very dark and bloody, something 
 like Gotham city if i can say so. The action scenes are this games strongest point, being amazing 
 and never seen before in a game. Max Payne is a must for shooter fans no doubt.
  
  If you wan't to feel like "The One" then you have come to the right place. You will be a god amongst 
 mortals, crushing enemies like ants in a very artistic way. Sounds good? I sure think so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olpfan
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2006 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne, is a brilliant game. Its a third person shooter with a variety of features.
  
  The ability to go into "bullet time"/slow motion mode has really made an effect on the gameplay 
 experience. Not only can you shoot people in a variety of ways but you can do it in slow-mo with 
 a very wide selection of weapons.
  
  The story line in this game interesting. The game starts out showing the ending first. And throughout 
 the game you work your way up into finding exactly what led up to that.
  
  The story line is a well based solid experience that puts you in control.
  
  The difficulty 
 depends on wether you want it to be hard or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GFreeman1998
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 30, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  I stretched my tired fingers over the keyboard, like a pianist would his final aria. Though my 
 grandest piece was yet to come, I told myself that it was time. Time to write the Max Payne review. 
 But to explain this review, I'd have to go back five years. Back to when the Payne started...
 
  
  Before I could try and figure out the twisted pretzel of a mystery, a voice in my head called out 
 for answers. It wanted to know if the whole review would be like this. 
  
  I sighed, wearily, and said yes. I think the voice killed itself after that.
  
  Five years 
 ago. I remember that night. 
  
  It was cold. The air conditioning rattled like a prisoner desperately trying to escape from his 
 cage. But I didn't fear it. 
  
  I focused my attention back upon the magazine that lay on my desk. It was open to a two-page ad 
 of some game, called "Max Payne". In the background was a man dodging bullets, firing back with 
 all the courage of a raging bull, a look of constipation upon his face. 
  
  I knew, at that moment, that I had to get that game. 
  
  Five years later, I found myself in 
 the position to get the game. I took the offer, and the one-armed bandit behind the counter had 
 a winner's grin.
  
  That made two of us.
  
  The sun went down with practiced bravado. I made it home just in time for the night. When the real 
 adventure came out.
  
  The game delivered on all fronts. The graphics were more astounding (for the time) than an honest 
 pimp. The dialogue was as well-written as it was brilliantly acted. And the graphic novel cinematics 
 gave the game a feel that I'd never experienced before. 
  
  I also noticed the gameplay. Hard to miss, it stood out like an African-American at a Republican 
 convention. The action was intense, pushing my back against the wall until I pushed back with slow-motion 
 and dual pistols on my side. The weapon selection was amazing, reinventing the game whenever a 
 new gun was found. 
  
  But, most of all, like a gambler who knew all the tricks, the game did everything right. I found 
 it hard to describe just how everything fit together so brilliantly, and worked with each other 
 to create the most innovative action game ever made. 
  
  And finally, the review written, I was free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sow_dwpreX
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 26, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  It is a very good game, if to evaluate its graphs as car head, in its gameplay is a little defective, 
 therefore it leaves to desire with the movement of the personage with some weapons... But, this 
 if not to count to the inspired effect slow camera in Matrix.
  
  The great charm of this game is in its structure to show to the player new possibilities of action 
 with much realism that really makes an impression in it being a game that backwards great innovation 
 in this area.
  
  Its sounds are reasonable, but, it can arrive until certain way to be irritating, but exactly thus 
 it leaves the game with an individual characteristic.
  History is good that the game leaves less flat becoming the more taste of being played, is charges 
 who format of HQ that of the one has touched interesting very to each serves as apprentice of the 
 last game.
  
  If to take in account only one detail or another Max Payne is not a game that if detaches for having 
 simply for having an excellent graph and to enginer really surprising, but is a set of things that 
 data in the game become it interesting in each detail and each new step.
  
  It is really an excellent game in first person who is recommended who to desire to test for some 
 hours of good action and diversion.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Limonadi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 18, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is very very excellent. As I stated before. The gameplay itself is innovative and the 
 story is gripping.
  The film noir graphic novelesqe style is very gritty and very real. Making this story seem like 
 it could very well happen. Minus the guy surviving every gunfight pitted against him. But nevertheless, 
 a very excellently put together storyline.
  The graphics, for the time, mind you I'm reviewing this 4 years after the fact it came out, are 
 very very good for its time. The particle effects are excellent, and the character models, are 
 probably the least of graphics, but still well done.
  The sound is superb. The sound effects, to the music, to the environmental noises, to the voices. 
 AHHH the voices. They are some of the best I have heard in a video game. Well done, well done.
 
  Now, the only reason I give the game value an 8, rather than a 6 or 7 (because of the games rather 
 short story, and its lack of other modes that entertain for long) is because I have downloaded 
 a few mods. So as the Matrixed Reality Pupu version mod, and the KungFu Mod. Both add tons and 
 tons of replay value. Not to say that it has none anyways, but still.
  Overall, an excellent game. Graphics good, gameplay great and original. Sound excellent, replay 
 value decent, with mods good. Overall a very good choice 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeMoraledGamer
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 16, 2006 9:54 pm PT
Review:  max payne is actually the second one in the series i played. the first one was max payne 2: fall 
 of max payne. i had a lot of fun with that game so i thought the first one would impress me too. 
 honestly with the not so great looking graphics i thought this game would be so great. boy was 
 i wrong. games are indeed not alll about graphics and this game showed it to me. with the crazy 
 action and griping story i just had to play more. this has what most of the mature audiences wants, 
 a great story with fun gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 15, 2006 5:45 am PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
  Bullet time (of course) is one of the sleekest, most incredible thing you can imagine in a game. 
 It's one of the reasons I bought the game and it was well worth it. 
  The graphics are top notch. Sure, Max Payne's face looks like he's taking a fat log in his pants 
 but it still looks like a real face. It's just amazing what they managed to do with this game and 
 allow it to run on even slower computers.
  When you're flying through the air, dodging bullets and letting your Eagle talk for you, hitting 
 the P button to pause is just awesome. The camera will spin itself around you and you can just 
 see the shells leaving your gun and the flame leaving the barrel. It's unreal.
  
  :Bad Idea:
  Even though the game is cool to show off, the replay value is very limited. Unless 
 you want to take the harder difficulty levels, show it off to friends, or just want to re-live 
 the experience, there's no other reason to replay the game. Some unlockables would have been nice.
 
  Well, for Max Payne, leaving your kid and wife home alone in a drug filed city isn't the smartest 
 thing a man has ever done.
  Taking on New York Minute difficulty. Ouch!
  
  :Overall:
  Max Payne will be one of the titles you have to show your kids what game started to make games 
 cool again. This is a classic and one of Remedy's best games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: V1RuS0fL1fE
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 4, 2006 11:43 am PT
Review:  Max Payne will be one of my all-time favourite PC games, not only for enabling the god-like power 
 of dodging whizzing bullets, but for its undeniable way of immersing you into a story that is totally 
 hellbent to the exponent of 6.
  
  Story:
  
  Let me get this straight. The story, is THE GREATEST thing about this game. Your wife and daughter 
 gets gunned by an unknown entitiy (no spoiling ;) ) , and revenge begins to engulf your very life 
 that was once peaceful. The game has a good amount of story progression and story telling while 
 balancing enough gameplay within it. Very grim, and at times disturbing.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Woooo! With the birth of bullet-time, games have been evolving with the very formula that gave 
 Max Payne its trademark style. A very big problem I have with the game is the incredible bullet 
 lag. it takes at least a second to speed your 9mm bullet from your end of the hallway to another. 
 The bullet-time doesn't break-away from the firefights and the overall objective of the chapter 
 -- but it does the opposite. Awesome stuff in this department.
  
  Graphics:
  
  It's the year 2006, and for sure we won't be seing anything as close to Oblivion-type type graphics. 
 Textures are good, the models are a bit boxy, but even though the graphics are quite out-dated, 
 it still does its job well to
  adhere to the overall mood of the chapter. The nightmares are very convincing and very eerie.
 
  
  Sound:
  
  Soundtrack is not bad. But the game glimmers in Payne's nightmares. Hearing the screams from your 
 wife and the baby cradle melodies while walking under a rain and along trails of blood. Whenever 
 I walked into a hallway and saw the walls glow red -- I knew I was in for it. Incredibly creepy 
 for my first time through.
  
  Wow.... um. It's kinda hard to review a game that's so twisted and crazy. You just HAVE to play 
 the game for yourself. If you like being in firefights and if you enjoy dramatic/suspensul storylines 
 -- what are you waiting for? You should've had the game a couple years ago :p. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeSlayer01
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 2, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  In Max Payne, the gameplay mixes a dark story of revenge with John Woo-style combat. In games, 
 this style of gunfighting is unique. It's basically a precise first person shooter in third person 
 perspective, without any lock-on targeting system. There are no healthkits, but painkillers.
  
  The graphics are mediocre in this day and age, but not bad. It's somewhere between Half-Life 
 1 and Half-Life 2 graphics. There are nice additions of smoke, water splashes, bulletholes, and 
 blood mist.
  
  The sound is great, and the first-person narraration brings the storyline to a whole new level, 
 as if Max is telling you his story directly. The guns and effects sound great as well.
  
  Both FPS fans and general gamers should be able to pick this title up. When you finish, it might 
 not be a good experience for Max Payne, but it's an excellent single-player experience for you 
 as a player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordgames123
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Espectacular 
  I expected something and got something completely different , but completely awesome 
  Max Payne 
 is a very good third person shooter with a lot of Matrix style action which is actually done better 
 in this game than in the actual Matrix game. Thumbs Up.
  
  The game-play is fairly simple and yet it takes a little while to get it completely right what 
 with the bullet time which is the games biggest attribute. If the game didn't have the bullet time 
 it would actually be just another third person shooter because the story and graphics aren't the 
 best ever aside from some quirky plot twists the game is just about shooting everything that moves. 
 Although the bullet time feature is the game's greatest attribute there is also something else 
 that makes the game worthwhile and that is the way it tells the rather simple story. Its told through 
 a graphic novel which is done sublimely. Also the story has a lot of self irony (which is the only 
 thing the sequel doesn't have) . This irony is not only directed at itself but also its entire genre 
 which is a very nice touch.
  
  The voice acting is somewhat strained. James McCaffrey who provides the voice of Max Payne has 
 the real voice but he doesn't really have the talent but he makes his way through without being 
 annoying but he doesn't exactly make one want to applause him either. Joe Dallo who is the voice 
 of Vinnie Gognitti does a good job but he is only in the game for a brief while. Other than that 
 the voice acting is plausible without being brilliant.
  
  All in all Max Payne is a very good game but it falls short of greatness. It is surpassed by the 
 sequel which is one of the best third person shooters ever made.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deepak_ku555
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 29, 2006 3:08 am PT
Review:  Max Payne is one of the best games ever been made. The main highlight of the game is its simplicity 
 and very free movements. The details on the weapons are great. The only con am going to write on 
 Max Payne is "the prelude are very boring & just drags". Also the narration which moves the game 
 is damn good. The other best feature in Max Payne is the FX tools which gives an option to change 
 the skin of characters and change the style, etc. I tried playing the Kung-fu edition too which 
 is really hard but gives u thrill to play on..
  
  One playing will really enjoy this game...
  
  -Deepak 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jiao
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 25, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  Atmospheric, gritty and utterly enthralling, Max Payne is the quintessential game-noir. From the 
 moment the action starts we are plunged into a bleak, dark world of betrayal and revenge; one in 
 which the rules of fair play have been scratched and the truth has been wrung into a bloodstained 
 question-mark.
  
  Told in flashback via an effective and original graphic-novel interface, Max Payne pulls no punches. 
 The eponymous anti-hero comes home one evening to find his wife and daughter slain and their drug-crazed 
 killers still in his house. The brief and brutal shoot-out that ensues marks the momentous debut 
 one of the most impressive and emulated effects in contemporary action games: Bullet Time. This 
 is where it all happened first, folks.
  
  Bullet Time has the effect of a controlled adrenaline burst upon Max; it briefly sharpens his perception 
 and improves his agility so that time slows around him  which allows Max to dodge bullets whilst 
 picking off a ridiculous number of assailants. A handy talent to have if youre planning to single-handedly 
 demolish the New York underworld from the ground floor up, particularly if doing so from a third-person 
 perspective.
  
  Fast-forward to three years past the grim prologue, and we find Max, unable to come to terms with 
 his loss, has transferred to the DEA and gone deep undercover in an obsessive hunt for answers. 
 But when his sole DEA contact meets a grisly fate, Max is suddenly cut adrift on the wrong side 
 of the law. The closer he gets to the truth, the more convoluted the story becomes, until hes 
 engaged in a full-blown vendetta against the mob, the NYPD and a sinister society more powerful 
 than either.
  
  There are so many exhilarating facets to this game: the martial acrobatics of Bullet Time; the 
 vertigo-inducing nightmare sequences; Maxs pensive monologues and their brilliantly stylized deference 
 to the noir thriller tradition (Sam Spade mustve been Maxs boyhood idol) . But it is the stark, 
 compelling storyline that elevates this game far beyond the usual conventions of its genre; the 
 action is fast-paced and ruthless, but Max Payne has brains to match its brawn.
  
  The shortcomings of Max Payne are so trivial as to be almost unworthy of mention, but here they 
 are all the same: cut-scenes aside, Maxs infamous grimace never so much as twitches  the poor 
 guy runs the whole gamut looking as though he just sat on a lemon. Not that the duration is a particularly 
 long one; what Max Payne has in style and substance it sadly lacks in play time. The plot-driven 
 nature of the game is necessarily linear, which means the replay value is limited (although youre 
 likely to want to rinse and repeat just for the pleasure of Maxs company in Bullet Time) . Theres 
 no multiplayer mode, either  but then it wouldve been a bit incongruous if there had been.
  
  Max does come with three additional gameplay modes that can be accessed by completing the game: 
 Hard Boiled, Dead On Arrival and New York Minute. The content doesnt change but the pace and intensity 
 of gameplay gets cranked up to a frenzied pitch.
  
  With a haunting score, tremendous voice-acting and a riveting screenplay (penned by the multi-talented 
 Sam Lake, who also wrote the original story and modeled for the role of the dour detective) , Max 
 Payne is truly a work of art. Even better than that, its a damned fine game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbrading
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Starting at the very beginning, how can you beat a game with a title like Max Payne? It is probably 
 one of the best play-on-words for ages, and is a great brand in the making. Luckily, the game is 
 just as good, if not better, than the catchiness of the title. The game combines a fast pace, great 
 plotline and excellent gameplay to create an experience that is at once immersive, and almost incoherently 
 fun.
  
  The story of Max Payne is ultimately one of revenge. Max was a NYPD Detective until he came back 
 to his New Jersey home on night and found that his wife and daughter had been brutally murdered 
 by drugged-up madmen. Its never a cakewalk for these poor computer game characters is it? Through 
 the game, you attempt to work out exactly who murdered them, and specifically why, so that Max 
 can finish his vendetta against them. As a character, Max is extremely fleshed out, and can be 
 seen as suffering from acute Survivors Guilt, determined to either bring justice to the deaths 
 of his loved ones or die in the process. You play as Max, and see everything poised just behind 
 him. The locations you visit are nicely detailed and presented, if a little on the small side. 
 The entire game is set in and across the boroughs of New York during a terrible blizzard that is 
 causing travel chaos, which gives the game a rough, cold and gritty edge, perfect film noir territory. 
 All the locations wonderfully are varied, characters great and storyline incredible, but the main 
 drawback to this game is that it simply isnt long enough! It gives you an amazing rollercoaster, 
 but leaves you still wanting much more. It could easily have been double the length it turned out 
 to be.
  
  One thing that makes Payne unique is the use of Graphic Novel style storyboards in place of most 
 graphical cutscenes. This has of course been done in many Japanese roe-playing games (where the 
 storyboards are typical cartoonish rubbish) , but never before with this sense of style and purpose. 
 These are fabulous pieces of artwork, many of which you probably wouldnt mind hanging on your 
 walls, especially the drawings of New York in the snow. The voice acting during these scenes and 
 the rest of the game is uniformly superb, with the voice of Payne being excellently produced to 
 give him a hardened and tough yet ultimately sad personality. Payne is someone you can genuinely 
 sympathise with, and you are able to understand why he has to annihilate half of New Yorks criminal 
 underworld to discover the truth behind the gruesome murders. It is this almost film noir style 
 that makes Max Payne a joy to behold and play through. Moreover, Max has some outstandingly great 
 lines, and is one of the most quotable games I know: He was trying to buy more sand for his hourglass. 
 I wasn't selling any. As such, it becomes an instant classic in my book.
  
  Easily Paynes forte however, is shooting. Max can use some of the very coolest moves this side 
 of a John Woo movie. You can turn on and off Bullet Time where Max speeds up but his enemies 
 and time slows down, making it much easier to shoot and aim, so multiple enemies can be taken down 
 in seconds. Furthermore, Max can shoot-dodge, leaping from cover to cover in slow motion, obliterating 
 everything in his way. You can also dual-wield pistols and Uzis, which makes the moves look even 
 more cool when Max soars slowly through the air. There are generally a very nice variety of weapons, 
 from standard pistols to pump-action shotguns and beyond. The only problem with the weapons is 
 that Max can only hold limited amounts of ammunition, so it is best to conserve your firepower 
 for when you are really in need of it. The AI in-game is pretty smart, as they will duck behind 
 cover and throw grenades every-so-often, and will only occasionally blow themselves to smithereens. 
 Sometimes you can find serious flaws in their intelligence, such as when they run stupidly right 
 at you and start clubbing you in the head.
  
  It there is one weakness of Max Payne, it is probably the surreal dream sequences. Max being the 
 horribly tormented soul he is, throughout the game he is plagued with a series of dreams that would 
 have made even Dr. Sigmund Freud ponder what they were really about. Whilst I am not disputing 
 that the dreams themselves are an interesting addition to the game, which allows us to delve into 
 the inner workings of one of gamings most complex characters, the problem is that you can die 
 in these dreams. This, naturally, does not make the slightest bit of sense! Surely Max would just 
 wake from the dream, similar to how one wakes if they die in a nightmare. There is one particularly 
 frustrating point in a dream where you must navigate extremely narrow ledges and jump across gaps. 
 Falling off results in death, and this can happen quite often. Max really needs to book himself 
 a meeting with a therapist once in a while.
  
  Nightmares aside however, Max Payne is a revolutionary step forward in shooting gaming, though 
 it is very difficult to pinpoint can exactly why. Perhaps its the great story, perhaps the varied 
 and realistic locations, or maybe simply because it is such darn good fun. Rest assured, when you 
 play it everything will be explained, at least in your own mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-M-INDIAN18
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 17, 2006 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Introduction
  
  A few years ago, I wasnt much into personal computer gaming at all when a friend told me about 
 a game developed by Remedy Entertainment and 3D Realms which played just like the movie, The Matrix. 
 It was supposed to be a cool action game, with great story, never-before-seen game-play, including 
 bullet time and shoot dodge, and many other things to go with it. I went forward and tried the 
 demo. And that changed my whole video-gaming habits and converted me into a pc gamer. I was bitten 
 by the Payne!
  
  Preview
  
  Welcome to the wonderful and brutal world of Max Payne. The protagonist of this game, Max Payne, 
 lives in a world full of hundreds of mafia members, drug addicts (known as junkies) , government 
 assassins and officials, who combine their forces to make your life as difficult as a hellhole. 
 You, as Max Payne, go through an incredible journey full of emotional losses, setbacks, revenge, 
 and finally, redemption.
  
  The world of Max Payne is incredibly scarce of normal, law-abiding citizens since the entire story 
 takes place in a time-line in which the city is hit by the fiercest storm in the recorded history. 
 But the story is so well told, that you will instantly believe any given circumstances throughout 
 the game.
  
  Story: 9.0/10
  
  The story of Max Payne is the crux of this game (besides game-play) . It is told through a number 
 of cut-scenes and graphic novels (ala Sin City) . The writer has done a wonderful job of crisp and 
 witty writing which greatly serves the purpose of keeping the players at the edge of their seats 
 throughout the game. Both, the cut-scenes and the graphic novels, are nicely done and maintain 
 the dark mood and the intense atmosphere of the game.
  
  The story is told in flashback by the character you play as, Max Payne. A NYPD Detective (New York 
 Police Department) , Max Payne is shown as a family caring man who has refused a job offered by 
 the DEA (Drug Enforcement Agency) because he then, may have had to go undercover which would have 
 been bad for his family.
  
  One day, Max returns home to find his house ransacked and his wife and baby daughter murdered by 
 junkies high on the designer drug V-Valkyr. It happened on a fateful summer evening three years 
 ago. Now, three years on, he is shown working as a DEA undercover cop trying to uncover the mystery 
 behind the drug V. 
  
  While on the job, his best friend and fellow partner gets killed by the Mafioso and Max gets framed 
 for the kill. Now, he is a fugitive running away from law while trying to get the real killers 
 of his friend and uncovering the mystery behind the drug V.
  
  The conspirators werent ready to face the Payne!
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  Now, we come to 
 the game-play of Max Payne. Its game-play is the biggest highlight of the game. Its incredibly 
 well done and extremely enjoyable to play. You get the feeling that you are actually watching a 
 movie.
  
  It brought to fore a new concept in gaming, Bullet Time (ala The Matrix) . The bullet time will 
 help you through thick-and-thin situations right through the game. The whole idea behind this concept 
 is to make the game-play more stylish and fun to play. When in bullet time, you as a player , and 
 all your enemies move in ultra-slow motion with the added benefit of you being able to aim in normal 
 time while the enemies aim in slow-motion. However, you will have to use it very wisely since the 
 use of bullet time is limited and it diminishes with time. You can, however, regain bullet time 
 by killing more and more enemies.
  
  Another wonderful addition to bullet time is shoot-dodges, which you can use either with bullet 
 time or separately. You will either dive forward/backwards/sidewards or roll forwards/backwards/sidewards 
 depending on the weapon you may be carrying at that time.
  
  Enemy A. I.: 8.0/10
  
  The enemy A. I. is simple ---see you-kill you. Thus, making it both a good thing and a bad thing! 
 It makes for great, intense and stylish combat set-pieces. However, it would have been nice if 
 the enemies could lose your trail, bringing a different kind of strategy to the fore. But, thats 
 not saying much. It remains a great game through and through.
  
  Graphics: 9.0/10
  
  Though, the game is quite old, it still looks very good. The textures and models are nicely detailed 
 and they look realistic. Weapons, character models, weapon reloading, environment, etc. all look 
 fluent and realistic. The explosions and flames are nicely done, lending itself to creating a nice 
 atmosphere. Carnage by bullets and explosions are permanent and looks good. Death animation of 
 enemies has its restrictions, though. Also, there is no lip-syncing for the characters which look 
 odd at times.
  
  Sound: 9.5/10
  
  The voice-over acting in this game is the best you will ever find in any game. They sound convincing 
 and more! The graphic novels, though they are great, would have been a big failure if it hadnt 
 been for the great voice-acting. Voice-acting in this game really makes you fall in love with the 
 characters. The guns and grenades all sound realistic. The enemies yell curses at you during fire-fights 
 which add to the atmosphere. The music of the game, too, is one of the best for any game, and it 
 goes well with the intense mood of the game.
  
  Controls: 10/10
  
  This game is incredibly easy to control and operate. The features are very well implemented and 
 the players find it very easy to learn the moves. You can also change the control set up for the 
 game to any keys you want to.
  
  Play time
  
  This game can take you anything between 9-12 hours to complete in your first play through. However, 
 this game has various difficulty modes to beat.
  
  Replayability: 9.5/10
  
  The game-play is so strong that you can play it multiple times without getting bored. Once you 
 beat the game for the first time, you can try to beat the game in higher difficulty modes, which 
 are unlocked one-by-one as you beat the previous difficulty modes. The game has three difficulty 
 modes which make the game progressively harder to beat. In addition to these three difficulty modes, 
 it also has a timed mode to contain with.
  
  Modifications
  
  The game has quite a few good mods for you to play. And the mod community for the Max Payne games 
 has gained momentum off-late. So you can get a few hours game-play out of them.
  
  Overall: 10/10
  
  Recommendation
  
  All said and done, this game will always be remembered 
 for its story, its unique and stylish game-play, its great characters, and its memorable lead 
 protagonist, Max Payne. If you have, by any chance, missed this gem, go and get it now. It can 
 still bowl you over.
  
  Taste the Payne!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyeNixon
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 16, 2006 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne is one of those games you'll buy used for about ten bucks, play it for a few minutes, 
 then forget about it.
  
  BUT, you'll later on see that copy lying around on your desk, and you'll say "I never really got 
 around to playing this". Once you pop that disk back into your PC, you notice what you missed.
 
  Combining a compelling story, incredible graphical presentation, plenty of blood, great writing, 
 and thrilling gunplay, Max Payne delivers in so many different areas it's hard to say just exactly 
 where it achieves, since there are so many small details that just make it great.
  
  The first thing you'll probably notice upon playing the game is that the visuals are very well 
 done, although Mr. Payne himself looks permenantly constipated, the models are extremely well done 
 and smooth, and despite the fact that the environments are pretty much the same throughout, they 
 still look stunning enough to complete kick away that problem completely.
  Lighting is perfect, the shadows are exact and bend according to light and space. 
  You don't 
 realize the power of the engine until you face off a group of thugs in a tiny room with gunfire 
 lighting up the room. Explosions flare up beautifully, your signature "bullet-time" has bullets 
 trailing through the air while smoke exhumes from a gun's barrel. And that, is the beauty of Max 
 Payne, which beats all standards for its time.
  
  You are Max Payne, a officer at the NYPD. You have a wife, new-born child, you're living the American 
 dream. But dreams are meant to be broken, and as you arrive home, dead silence greets you. Your 
 house has been ransacked, destroy, and you begin to worry. A phone rings, you frantically answer, 
 but only a mysterious voice with a confusing message replies. As you head upstairs, you hear crying, 
 screaming. A armed man bursts through your child's room, he looks disheveled and mad, garbed in 
 only what appears to be the uniform of an inmate. The crying intensifies, as you blast the junky 
 down.
  
  The next room bears a horrible sight, your child, cover by his own blankets, made to comfort him, 
 bloodstained and the only thing that keeps Max from breaking down. 
  The site in the next room only makes things worse, your wife, dead.
  
  Max Payne, a man with 
 a mission, revenge, vengeance, whatever it takes. These junkies were planted in your home, they 
 were meant to kill your family. And you're going to find out who was behind it.
  
  As the game goes along, Max is intent on the case, but his fellow investigators don't share his 
 enthusiasm. 
  So that begins the true game, with you starting off in a subway.
  
  Max Payne controls like any third person shooters, and plays "almost" like any other. The main 
 exceptions are bullet-time, a counter which increases as you kill enemies. As this bar fills up, 
 you can use it at will to unleash a slow-mo mode where you can dodge bullets and target enemies 
 easily. 
  This will be your primary mode of combat, as Max is just as vulnerable as his advesaries.
  
 
  The arsenal at your reach is vast and interesting. Ranging from Eagles, to Pump-action Shotguns, 
 Commandos, and several other weapons. Max Payne challenges you with ammo conservation and using 
 these weapons in the correct situations. 
  Max Payne shines in this area, there's a rather large amount of planning and strategy involved, 
 much more than the regular shooter offers. Situations vary from a small room with several enemies, 
 giving you little room to manuever. You have no oppertunity to throw a grenade, so what do you 
 do? Rush in with a shotgun, fire one round, and switch on bullet-time to take out the rest? Or 
 do you take out your Commando, spray the room with bullets in a bullet-time dive, whip out your 
 shotgun in mid leap and finish off the remaining enemy?
  Trial and error is a major part of the game, which sadly also brings it down a bit. Health boosts 
 are scarce, so conserving your health will just be as important as ammo. Saving and reloading will 
 be very integral as you play, where certain areas can become irritating as you're forced to play 
 them over and over again, due to the rather difficult circumstances on even normal difficulty.
 
  
  Sound is excellent. The voice-acting is very well done, especially Max, who has a baritone voice 
 that sounds husky and believable at the same time. 
  Other characters have equally well done voice-overs.
  
  Most of the sound effects are extremely 
 well done, ranging from gunshots, screams, yells, impacts, shatters, and etc. Although the sound 
 does feel a bit scarce at times, and there's a certain lack of music, where some music in certain 
 areas could've pumped up the adrenaline, instead of just being rather decent.
  
  But otherwise Max Payne is an excellent game. With some lacking areas, and certain features which 
 could've been fleshed out more (very few bullet-time manuevers) . There are also a variety of interesting 
 and well done mods drifting out on the internet. Finding Max Payne for ten dollars is a definite 
 bargain, so go out and find a copy, it'll be worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: semplew
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 13, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  This game was so good at the time and is still good now I would say. To be honest the graphics 
 are not as good now and Max Payne 2's graphics are pretty dated now but the gameplay and sound 
 any bullet time is all so good that this game will never get old. As long as bullet time exists 
 in games this game will never be forgotton because it is where bullet time in games all started.
 
  The storlyline in this game is such an interesting one too and at the beginning (SPOILERS NOT 
 THAT ANYONE HASNT PLAYED IT) when his wife and baby were murdered by absolute loonatics, it really 
 made you sympathise for him and so you would try your hardest in the game to get back at your familys 
 killers and also just play your hardest to get further. If you havent played Max Payne then you 
 gotta get onto your PC and play it before it grows too old to even run it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neohakusho
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 24, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  So you're looking for a third person shooter and a classic game. Max Payne can fill the spot. Max 
 Payne, personally, is actually better than the second game. First of all, you come home from work, 
 and you find your wife and your baby dead. What more of a drama do you want? Then you go around 
 New York City finding the murderer and get chains of crimes while you're on your revenge. This 
 game has a excellant storyline, and the gameplay is just great. The fact that this game has a "bullet 
 time", which is when you can slow down time and just shoot out all your enemies is great. The game 
 isn't hard to learn, plus it's a classic so the money you put for this game isn't a lot. Another 
 level that i liked was when you get drugged and you'll be in this world, similar to a maze, where 
 you have to find your way out. Try it, and you'll like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DzeTSNotorious
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 17, 2006 6:22 am PT
Review:  Max Payne has to do with a father, he comes home one day with no welcome, there are marks on the 
 walls, and he gets a disturbing phone call, the atmosphere is eary as you move through you're unwelcoming 
 house looking for you're wife and son. You her screams in the bathroom and blood in the baby's 
 play pin. Then the killer (a guy in a orange jumper who looks like he came from a mental iinstitution 
 comes out from the other room after you and you kill him. You go out looking for the people responsible 
 for the death of you're wife and you're child.
  
  This game has amazing gameplay, with some eary things that will make you're blood curdle from the 
 SFX and the voices and scenery (especially the part where he's drug and all he can hear is his baby 
 crying and his wife screaming and it looks like he's walking on the attic support beams.
  
  This game is an instant classic and something great to add to your collection.
  
  Words Of 
 Edvice: buy it and you'll love it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f_muzaka
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 11, 2006 8:37 am PT
Review:  Max Payne came in as another shoot em up game in the rpg genre but turned out one of the most original 
 games ever. With a very stylish storyline and scenery, the crime fighting cop of Noir City, that 
 is Max Payne can shoot slow, fast, turn jump and spill out killing words before filling up his 
 adversaries with bullets. They might have called this game rainin' bullets and it still would have 
 brought surprise and entertainment . The only bad thing about the game is that there are limited 
 opportunities for moving around and there are no side missions or side characters. I believe this 
 would have filled up a bit the game but it still stands on as a great opportunity to pass hours 
 playing be it in a pc, ps2 or xbox.
  The only thing I did not like in the game was those creepy corridors when passing from one part 
 of the game to the other. Fortunately are only two of them. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow_judge
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2006 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne is an exellent game, even though it's have some "dangerous" problem, but the game is 
 quite master piece.
  The storyline of Max Payne, is very similiar to many action movies you've seen in Hollywood. The 
 game started from the memory of Max Payne, a painful nightmare. Max is just an udercover Cop form 
 DEA, one day, he return home and realized one thing: his "American Dream" has turned into a nightmare 
 when his wife and little daughter being murder. Too angry, he made a revenge. From the train station, 
 to the mafia family, then the old goverment plans, he discovered that the murder is the biggest 
 company in New York City, which producing drugs to the city's junk. All of his anger has destroyed 
 the company down.
  Not only the best storyline, Max Payne has many interesting action-scene. The game was published 
 right after the slow-motion of Maxtrix being popular, so it's easy-to-understand that another thing 
 made Max Payne being more popular is the slo-mo (in game called bullet-time) , inspired from Chow 
 Yun Fat movies like "The replacement killer", "Bulletproof monk".
  Moreover, the game has very good graphic, exellent sound (Background music, or the powerful shotgun's 
 sound) , superb storyline. But, sadly, the game's AI is worst, just like Mario's enemy. They just 
 know to shoot-while-running, or just shoot-and-stand, make Max easily hunt them down. 
  General talking, besides of idiot AI, Max Payne is a superb game, an exeption action game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleDuck
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 4, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Truth be told, I was half expecting a Matrix rip off as soon as I saw this game. I was expecting 
 someone in shades to run around with a long leather coat, do a backward cartwheel and become very 
 famous as a result and be called the one. But then it wasn't.
  
  As soon as I begun play I saw a somewhat comic face appear. I also noticed a lack of shades. This 
 meant that the game designers hadn't followed the Matrix, but made their own character. Also judging 
 by the release date, the game production must have begun around 1999, 2000, so the idea was original 
 which is good as that means that a random guy isn't going to follow a white rabbit to a she/man 
 and eventualy have dodgey sex in the run up.
  
  However focussing on the good is the action. I love the slo-mo dives and the story (especially 
 the bit where he gets injected with V for the second time and becomes aware of the game) . I love 
 the weapons and the AI. What I don't like is the fact that in the proper slo-mo, you can't regain 
 time by shooting people. That would of for me made this game perfect. I'm currently downloading 
 max payne 2 demo. If anyone in the UK knows where I can get max payne 2 for 5 please reply. I 
 love this game that much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p232
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 27, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  This game was made in 2001. I belive that if this game came out today, would it be better than 
 many other games. This game change the way of playing. There is many games that copies this max 
 payne style, but not many beet this game. Its yust amazing!
  
  The good: This cool new matrix/max payne style with slow motion is very good, the story is not 
 bad either, the graffic is good ( to be a 2001 graffic) , and its good value and very fun to play
 
  
  The bad: Well... its sometimes get a little hard to complete missions, but exept that I can't see 
 anything bad.
  
  So if you love matrix movies, or matrix games, then this is the game for you.
  The best game 
 in 2001! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 21, 2006 9:41 pm PT
Review:  This has to be one of the best I tell you! The plot is great. The story telling cut scenes are 
 sensational. I really got into FPS's because of this game. Well got me back into it. The graphics 
 are superb, and the game mechanics which I believe it introduced some new ones at that... are outstanding. 
 I can't beleive how well this game was put together. A must have! The choices of arsenal is massive. 
 opposed to some games I might add. I like the dive, and shoot. I beleive it's in this one..... as 
 well as the sequel. Game seems to be to easy though. Fun factor is great, and replay is awesome. 
 I can play this well into my 80's, and it will still be on my top 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willdemers
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 20, 2006 9:02 pm PT
Review:  This game got me hooked as soon as I started installing it.
  
  As soon as the game begins you are drawn into an intense story, explained through a series of graphic 
 cartoons. The voice acting is solid and the plot is reasonable. You're a man on a hunt. Seeking 
 vengeance for the murder of your wife and baby you begin to investigate.
  
  This game was the first to my knowledge to incorporate bullet-time fighting that was popularized 
 by The Matrix. In Max Payne you will encounter a wide variety of weapons that you may use to brutally 
 destroy any enemies that you encounter.
  
  This game is a shooter. A damn good one.
  
  The graphics are great and the sound accompanies the game very well. Great detail was taken when 
 designing this game and you can feel it as you explore the cold city streets in search of answers.
 
  
  If you haven't played this game, you must. Don't question me. Just rent, rip or buy this game. 
 I don't care how you play it... Just make sure you do.
  
  This game is gold. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MessiahKnot
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Some games are just cool. Period. Theres no point in arguing, because really, you are fighting 
 a losing battle from the start. Max Payne oozes the kind of unrepentant charisma that you always 
 hope for, and that youll greedily savor to the end credits roll. The plot is thick and coarse, 
 the characters remorseless and unforgiving, and the action hotter then a bullet from a 9mm Beretta. 
 Anti-hero fanatics have a new poster boy, cause Max has arrived, and hes lost everything.
  
  MP is reminiscent of and old film noir, with its pessimistic vengeance theme and harsh environment, 
 but coupled with todays gritty sensibility. The story progresses via an interactive graphic novel, 
 with fatalistic narration voiced by the disgruntled and bruised Max Payne. We follow his sad plight 
 as it spirals out of control into something bigger and more savage then first imagined. The game 
 takes place during one of New Yorks worst snowstorms as Max seeks answers to the deaths of his 
 beloved family. He finds himself embroiled in a conspiracy to bring him down, and he sure as hells 
 going to find out why. This is a real adults game. It deals with themes that are designed to make 
 you feel uncomfortable and deliberate sets out to create the most overwhelming scenario possible. 
 This is done so that the redemption Max seeks feels justified and you have no reservations about 
 exterminating the scum that infest the streets. Needless to say, the story is very good and the 
 characters fit perfectly into this hell on earth.
  
  What makes MP so revolutionary is its inclusion of slo-mo gun battles. They were integrated in 
 such a fun and user friendly way that you are powerless to their escape charms. Diving headlong 
 as a barrage of shotgun pellets wiz over your head whilst simultaneously unloading a full torrent 
 of hot lead into your hapless enemy, all the while in a perpetuated haze, just HAS to be experienced. 
 Its the kind of immature boyish thing you wish you could do in real life, but would probably end 
 up dead or paralyzed doing. 
  
  The levels are fun, and for the most part varied, and there are some good set-pieces to follow. 
 The world is very well realized and interesting to explore, and palpable feeling of foreboding 
 creates a great atmosphere. The game though can be relatively short, but one can forgive this as 
 the quality is so high and the action so well orchestrated. I gurantee you have lots of fun messing 
 around and trying to create a cool pose (When you pause the camera revolves around Max in mid action 
  very cool) . The graphics are quite good too. Very crisp and clean. The sound is great, with lots 
 of dialogue and faithfully satisfying sound effects.
  
  Max Payne is brilliant fun. Youll definitely have a great ride ahead of you if you decided to 
 indulge in the game. Its ballsy, in your face gun theatrics - and bloody beautiful! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shogun26
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 14, 2006 3:38 am PT
Review:  To kill or to be killed, this is about max payne the avenger, man with a full rage for a fulltime 
 killing.
  ass a story is an usual american police story, the new on it is the time limit combo, a new art 
 of showing the way to kill by a bulletproof.
  the variety of weapons allow you to choose a large level to hit enemies, the best one is the shoot 
 gun and the sniper weapon.
  also, the story have got a smart way to guide you and informe you about Max life. Well i prefer 
 the first Episode more than the second, cause it's so original and fantastic, that's the world. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n0s2004
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 12, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  Ever thought of pulling off those amazing moves you see in action movies, look no further than Max 
 Payne.
  
  What makes this game so great ? The Bullet-Time (slow motion) , the shoot dodges (slow mo dives) 
 while pumping enemies full of lead !
  Where style meets substance !
  
  Graphically it can be called one of the best. Sound is mind blowing, right down from the firing of 
 guns & sounds of bullets whizing past you is just amazing. Gameplay could get a little bit better. But 
 it's still solid. The game can be beaten easily in more or less 10 hours.
  
  This game is one of the finest in it's genres & perhaps the best shooter of it's time.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_levane
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2009 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Remedy's "Max Payne" is perhaps the best first-person shooter ever made. It is a dark, hard-boiled 
 detective story which blends Film Noir and "The Punisher" together with a nod to John Woo and "The 
 Matrix". The latter introduced "Bullet Time" to movie audiences and "Max" gives the player controllable 
 access to it.
  
  It is also very similar to Rockstar's "Grand Theft Auto III" in terms of the self-parodied tone, 
 adult humor and story content. Perhaps that's why Rockstar Games decided to release it for the 
 PC. The plot has ex-cop turned D. E. A. agent Max Payne avenging his family's murder by going up 
 against the Mob on one long snowy night in New York City. There are plenty of twists and turns 
 in this dark, hard-boiled detective story.
  
  There are also plenty of useful firearms and bloody action. If there's anything else "Max Payne" 
 resembles besides "Grand Theft Auto III", it is a tacky 1970's low-budget exploitation cop flick. 
 Regardless, action lovers will get a major kick out of playing "Max Payne". It was one of the best 
 games of 2001. Grade: A 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrustyKids
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 22, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne Review
  ----------------------------
  Gameplay: Max payne's gameplay is unbelivable From the classic shootouts to the Bullettime diving 
 its solid Fun and will keep you playing for hours. The singleplayer can be beaten and then you 
 unlock different game modes for harder skill which makes you want to play the whole game again. 
 Tthe singleplayer is quite challenging and requires some straegy not just shiiting people. 10/10
 
  
  Graphics: The Games been out since 2001 so its not going to compare to Half life 2 or any of the 
 latest games but the graphics are good for its age and they are far from terrible and you dont 
 need a 400 dollar graphics card too run it. 9/10
  
  Sound: Well its from 2001 itssnot going to be the best of sounds But its decent and the guns sound 
 real enough and the characters.
  9/10
  
  Value: this game has ultimate fun it can be found in the bargain bin at most Game stores for about 
 5$ and ill tell you its worth every penny itll keep you playing for hours.
  10/10
  
  reviewer's tilt: Loved this game got me to get the 2nd one because i loved it so much This is a 
 Must Buy. 10/10
  
  Summary: Cheap good and dont need a good computer to run it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GizmoSimo
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2006 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne is a very good third person shooter with a lot of Matrix style action which is actually 
 done better in this game than in the actual Matrix game. Thumbs Up.
  
  The game-play is fairly simple and yet it takes a little while to get it completely right what 
 with the bullet time which is the games biggest attribute. If the game didn't have the bullet time 
 it would actually be just another third person shooter because the story and graphics aren't the 
 best ever aside from some quirky plot twists the game is just about shooting everything that moves. 
 Although the bullet time feature is the game's greatest attribute there is also something else 
 that makes the game worthwhile and that is the way it tells the rather simple story. Its told through 
 a graphic novel which is done sublimely. Also the story has a lot of self irony (which is the only 
 thing the sequel doesn't have) . This irony is not only directed at itself but also its entire genre 
 which is a very nice touch.
  
  The voice acting is somewhat strained. James McCaffrey who provides the voice of Max Payne has 
 the real voice but he doesn't really have the talent but he makes his way through without being 
 annoying but he doesn't exactly make one want to applause him either. Joe Dallo who is the voice 
 of Vinnie Gognitti does a good job but he is only in the game for a brief while. Other than that 
 the voice acting is plausible without being brilliant.
  
  All in all Max Payne is a very good game but it falls short of greatness. It is surpassed by the 
 sequel which is one of the best third person shooters ever made.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 19, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  One word two describe this game... INSANE. This is the very first slow motion shooting killing game 
 I ever played and I love it. The storyline is so moving, the arsenal weapons you can get in this 
 game and the slow motion timing on this game is so much fun. Max Payne is a wonderful experience 
 for third person shooter gaming. Too bad the game is a little short though, I mean I expected more 
 fun in it. Ever since this game came out, people were trying to make cheap rip off games on it, 
 but they just can't get it as good as max payne. O yes, the game is like no other shooter I played 
 that has awesome action moves and insane battles like this. It is just blazing bullets everywhere 
 around you when you play this game. It does have a cheap price too now a days so BUY IT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sefpayne
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 19, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  On hearing the formula of Max payne, i was on board straight away. The game is sooo fun to play 
 it can be completed a million times over and you could still get your thrills. The addition of 
 bullet time is what gives this game the fun factor and that never gets old or repetetive.
  
  The dialogues were among the greatest parts of this game as it tells you a deep story about 
 a cop whos wife had been murdered. These dialogues appear every so often and it sort of feels like 
 your watching a film such as Sin city. This game is also incredibly hard at first but gets somewhat 
 easier as you learn the ropes whcih doesnt take long at all.
  
  Many matrix fanatics and action junkies would go absolutely crazy over this game and would be just 
 as hyped about it as I was. It may not be a perfect game, but it is a bundle of fun right from 
 the start. I was so glad to see they made a sequel but i had to write a review of the game from 
 where it all began.
  
  This is a must play action adventure game on the pc, ps2 and xbox. If you havnt already played 
 it, your definately missing something in your life.
  
  This review brought to you by the one and only SEF PAYNE. Yeah so what if i stole it from this 
 game, its just great!! lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yojimbo25
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 12, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Now I have reviewed this game on the PS2 and found it adequate. But the PC version by far is the 
 best version to own.
  
  I was at my local BIg Lots store and was searching through their bargin computer games and happend 
 upon this game. Well I wanted to try the game on the PC and the price tag of $3.99 drew me in. 
 I wasn't expecting much out of this game, because MP on the PS2 failed to excite me in any way. 
 After installing the game and playing for a few minutes I WAS BLOWN AWAY! 
  
  Graphics
  Now it is rare for a game this age to be beautiful but I was impressed with the graphics. My PC 
 allowed me to turn the game up to high and found a world of smooth textures, detailed character 
 models and of course Max's trademark constipated face (which looks lame) . 
  
  Gameplay 
  Max Payne is like Sypthon Filter on crack. The game is so fast paced that if you even halt for 
 a second, you will die. Also it borrows the bullet time feature first seen in the awesome movie 
 The Matrix. Using bullet time allows Max to focus and literally see bullets stream across the room, 
 and if he wanted Dodge the bullets.
  
  Value
  Overall Value is good. Even after you beat the game their are the other difficulties to tackle 
 and is packed with a level editor for all you modders out there. 
  
  Overall Max Payne on the PC is fantastic. Pick this one up hey I found it for $3.99. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrLaskowski
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 9, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  This is one of the coolest games there is, the creation of bullet time was innovative and well 
 done in this instance. So often games try to create something like this, and well they fall short 
 of everyone's expectations. I thought the story was awesome in this game as well as the graphics, 
 the difficulty and again I love bullet time. The amount of weapons at your disposal is quite nice, 
 and I believe that it makes for much more fun when it is easy to go from one to the other. The 
 game will get your attention if you play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Viper
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 6, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  Max Payne is a highly rewarding, interesting game that breaks boundaries in terms of its appearance, 
 and will have you coming back to it time and time again.
  
  I will start my long list of compliments for this game by picking up on the element that will be 
 one of the last things you notice while playing, though I feel is its crowning glory. That is its 
 self-adjusting difficulty level. This innovative and intelligent aspect of the game means that 
 never will the game be too tough, but likewise it will never be too easy. This ensures that the 
 game is consistently fun, as you cannot cruise through the levels but will never become stuck for 
 too long, meaning that it is 100% entertainment.
  
  Visually, Max Payne laid down a marker for games that would follow it. It is possible to manipulate 
 almost all of the backgrounds, leaving bullet holes in everything, moving loose objects, and interacting 
 with many different objects, such as turning sinks on or opening cupboards. The bodies of enemies 
 pile up as you dispatch them, leaving blood splattered on the wall to accompany the damage caused 
 by the weapons. The carnage left by some gunfights is fantastic, especially during some of the 
 battles in the mansion. Seeing the detail of the devastation in the offices and kitchen is something 
 else altogether.
  
  Bullet time is a useful tool that gives you the edge in battles and is necessary for some of the 
 tougher gun fights. While this ability is completely unrealistic it adds a fun new element and 
 makes for fantastic action shots.
  
  The story is overly dramatic and the script is way over the top, but these elements add to the 
 game. It is supposed to be a ridiculous comic book adventure, and the larger than life characters 
 with their melodramatic dialogue make it what it is. The game takes the style of an interactive 
 graphic novel, and as such is a refreshing and innovative take on standard 3rd person action shooters.
 
  
  The games added difficulty modes give it good replay value, and as the story is fairly short you 
 will be grateful for these opportunities to replay the game with a fresh challenge.
  
  In all it is very difficult to find criticisms for Max Payne. It is a colourful and engaging story 
 that twists and turns at every step, and features truly memorable, larger than life characters. 
 The dialogue is melodramatic but suits the story, and the voice acting that backs it up is of a 
 good standard. Bullet time is an innovative addition, that makes for entertaining battles and looks 
 so good that you will be disappointed that the game prohibits you from using it all the time. The 
 ability to manipulate almost every environment that Max enters is incredible, and makes you wonder 
 just how the loading time when returning to saved games is so short. The self-adjusting difficulty 
 level is a revolutionary creation and makes the game a constant challenge that will never become 
 impossible. There aren't even any stability issues or major graphical glitches to pick up on. The 
 only thing that can be said is that the game is too short, and will leave you wanting more when 
 the dust settles at the end of the final battle.
  
  Max Payne set a new marker down for the standard of video games, and deserves its place as an all-time 
 classic. It was released four and a half years ago from the date of writing, though by todays standards 
 it is still incredible. If you don't yet own Max Payne then I suggest that you get down to your 
 video games store ASAP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bacall133
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 24, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Well as a start I would like to state that this game kicks ass. The graphics are extremely realistic, 
 the game play will keep you coming back for more, the game isn't super easy either. Although I 
 think certain parts of the game were overly cinematic. For instance near the end of the game max 
 rides in a car while in a room with fire coming from the walls. I don't think I have to comment 
 on that. But anyway the game is totally great, if your super emotional you SHOULD NOT play this 
 game I played it like a week after my grandmother died and when his family died I was on the brink 
 of tears. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beefycake
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 24, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  You know your in deep trouble, when you realize the whole city along 
  with the worst criminals are after you. To make matters even worse your being framed, the cops 
 accuse you, drug and unnecessary violence explode..... but you can still make a scene by having 
 one facial expression and cool combat moves.. and what does this have to do with anything... well 
 it has to with this gritty, violent, gun-fest game called MAX PAYNE!!
  
  As the title says, Max Payne is.... about a character named Max Payne. 
  The story is about an 
 NYPD cop whose wife and infant daughter are murdered years ago in New Jersey. After 3 years, Max 
 Payne goes undercover to investigate New York's worst Mafia. Max, is then framed for the murder 
 of his boss, and is being hunted down like an animal against New York's baddies and pros. All which 
 leads to clue leading to the situation of huge drug being spread around the city called.. V.... Too 
 make matter worse..... it all happens during the centuries worst blizzard... perfect!
  
  You may say to yourself that this is once again another, shooting game,
  However, you dont know 
 the real deal of this game. Max Payne is a 3rd person shooter game, (just like Tomb Raider) but 
 it quite the gritty and violent. But the real deal of MAX PAYNE is the ability to perform any man's 
 or heroes dream in an action game.... BULLET TIME!!! If youve seen action films, such as John Woo, 
 or ofcourse the famous flick" THE MATRIXS" you can really expect an amazing action experience.
 
  Max can slow down time while capping hes enemies or go  
 go gunghoo in the action. You can dodge the bullets passing by you, and see the individual bullets 
 being shot at you. Youll will have access to all the basic weapons in an action game, pistols, shotguns, 
 uzis, assault rifles, grenades and a baseball bat? ( yes there is a baseball bat and much more) The 
 game offers another special feature of the graphic novel. Unlike cinematics, the scenes are shown 
 in a manner of a comic book, and they do look impressive. 
  
  The storyline of this is almost like an action movie, the graphic are not bad, but the sound is 
 excellent and absolutely awesome!!
  The only down side of this amazing game is that its way too short... but MAX PAYNE is a must play 
 game for any hardcore gamer, it an experience you wont regret... or should i say.. its a PAYNE.. fully 
 good experience...
  .. eheheh.... get it..... oh nevermind.. just play this game!!!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunwn
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 24, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  Max Payne is a brilliant game. It uses bullet time perfectly, has a depressing but exciting story 
 and is just great to play. 
  You will stain your pants with excitement the first time you use bullet time. 
  The story sets 
 the mood well and makes you want to kick some ass. Bullet time is addictive after you use it once 
 you'll want to use it again. This game will go down in gaming history as the best game ever to 
 use bullet time. 
  There are times when you don't know what you have to do next but you soon find out. 
  Like good 
 games? Get Max Payne. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: changwoua
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 16, 2006 7:46 am PT
Review:  Max Payne sets you in the shoes of a NY cop named well, Max Payne.
  He fights for justice but doesn't really follow the rules.
  The story starts with Max Payne returning 
 home only to find his wife and baby girl dead. He tries to figure who did it, and gets tangled 
 in web of disappointment, betrayal, and eternal grief. It isn't really funny except for one part, 
 but overall the game is pretty serious. 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is fantastic and uses the mouse and keyboard combo. There aren't many cut 
 scenes and there is this cool Bullet Time shoot-dodge where you slow time and dodge bullets as 
 you shoot the enemies.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are amazing, the environments are all detailed, beautifully, and the characters 
 show a lot of detail.
  
  Sound: The sound goes really well with the game and voice-acting is really good. The music goes 
 really well the environment, and it is different in every level that fits each environment perfectly.
 
  
  Overall: Overall, this game is awesome and anyone will like it especially if your a fan of shooters. 
 The only thing Max Payne is sort of ok in is length. The length isn't really good and you could 
 probably beat it in a day, but what is in the game is absolutely terrific. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slimrider94
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2006 2:16 pm PT
Review:  I'm not even into shooters but, when I started to play Max Payne I was enjoying the game.
  
  Gameplay: This game has great gameplay. It makes you get so tense that you pause before you 
 dive around the corner to start shooting the enemy. Over that, you have alot of guns which most 
 of them are great. You have the Colt Commando that is a rapid fire gun and can do more damage then 
 the Ingrams. I liked the sniper rifle to because when you close-in on the enemy with you target 
 thing the bullet slows down and goes fast all of a sudden, which is really cool.
  
  Graphics: I think the graphics for this game are great. Well I don't have alot to say about the 
 graphics.
  
  Sound: The sound is really good in this game. You hear all this talking from somewhere that's far 
 away in the game but, the voice is kind of faint which makes the sound look good. The you hear 
 yelling and screaming every time you shoot the enemy's and when the enemy's see you they start 
 calling all their partners to help shoot you down.
  
  Value: This game is a must have. If you are into third-person shooters then you should definitely 
 get this game. With the gameplay, graphics, and sound being great you should get this game. This 
 game is relatively cheep and you won't regret not getting this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bardockkun
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 10, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  I'll start with this review by saying there are spoilers in this review and by spoilers i mean, 
 something that shouldn't even exist or make you question the contents of this game with how ridiculous 
 it is. Now that i've got that out of the way, onto the review.
  
  Max Payne is one of those games that has a great gimmick and started a great gimmick with the use 
 of bullet time. Now it doesn't exactly make the gameplay all the more improved or different then 
 other 3rd person shooters, but adds a little more variety in playing it. I say it doesn't do much 
 because you really want to use it constantly, but the game forces you to "conserve" it so it makes 
 diving forward a test of "should i? Or should i not?" That shouldn't be even a question, but yah 
 you have to.
  
  In anycase if you're in a pickle here's a tip, hide behind a door and wait for enemies to follow 
 you and either wait for the door to open to unload them with a clip of bullets or get a bat and 
 whack them to oblivion.
  
  Now story wise, you can skip for the most part, but when you get to a certain part of the game 
 you really got to question "What the hell?!" This point in the story being when youre fighting 
 satanic junkies.
  
  Satanic junkies... that's the best they can think of?
  
  Honestly if you take the story at all seriously, when that happens you'll be questioning how satanic 
 junkies are involved in this whole thing. Basically they're involved with some giant corperation 
 in a giant snow storm and... you know what, when the main character has a name like "Max Payne" 
 you shouldn't take it seriously anyways.
  
  If you want to shoot something and look cool (conservativly while doing so) then get Max Payne, 
 it's fun, but the the ending (if you care) is beyond lackluster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game06
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne is one the best game I have ever played. I know its a little late to submit a review 
 of this game considering it being very old, but remedy entertainment really knows how to keep players 
 addicted. This game is soo addictive and I didnt stop playing until i was done. Though the ending 
 was great, i still wanted the story to continue. But other than being an incredible game, the graphic 
 effects are pretty awesome. Pretty much everything in that game can be manipulated and literally 
 blast your way through everything. A great game and I recommend gamers who have not played it yet 
 to give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goatman48
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 2, 2006 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne was released more than 4 years ago, and it can still hold it's own today.
  This game has a pretty great story, that ties the action together just perfectly. There isn't a 
 moment in this game where you arent completely emersed in the action. The game is a video game 
 land mark, in that it introduced the legendary, initated but never duplicated, bullet time. The 
 graphics and lighting effects where amazing for it; s time, with beautiful effects. There are practically 
 no glitches, or any other problem-the game is completely solid. The music added to creat suspence 
 is pretty great too. The game is worth buying just for its story, the action and graphics are just 
 a bonus. I've spent more time with this gem than any other video game. 
  However, it loses some value on the consoles, you have to play it on the PC to fully appreciate 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eee_master
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 30, 2005 11:11 pm PT
Review:  When I first read about this game a few years back I knew it was for me. 
  
  I had a friend who loaned this to me and was instantly hooked like chicks do when they watch soap 
 operas lol. I went out and got my own copy and did not put it down for months. 
  
  One of the first things that appealed to me was the opening theme song. A Piano solo followed by 
 a simple bass line and a hear beat BRILLIANT!!
  
  The graphic novel style of the movie reminded me of my Punisher Graphic novels (Which I still read 
 and collect today, Punisher MAX) which also in game allows you to go back and view it all from 
 the begining. I found this to be a welcomed change from FMV and CGI intros which are cool but this 
 was a change of the usual and change, as always, is good. 
  
  The gameplay was as well smooth and the bullet time feature definately comes in handy when battling 
 the bosses. The really cool part is you can pause the game and basically watch the frame rotate.
 
  
  Definite plus are Graphics, gameplay and storyline. The Storyline is very well written with may 
 twists and turns as well as revelations. Throughout the game many easter eggs can be found (ie 
 an SnM room) which can be found on gamefaqs. Plus a lot of the one liners are pretty funny as well. 
 
  
  My main beef witht he game was the way people held their runs in game. Everyone looks like the 
 have their arm broken when they are in gun fightsor even holding their guns. This should have been 
 fixed int he QA portion of the game's development IMO. I can tell a lot went into effort in making 
 this game but that would be my only complaint.. well one more.
  
  There is a part of the game where you travel through Max's nightmares. Now. These levels are beyond 
 difficult and aggrevating!!! The fact you hear his wife sobbing and child crying in the background 
 of these DOES NOT HELP!! HAd to use cheat codes for those levels there just was no other way. 
 
  
  All in all though a great game which I still find myself installing every now and then. Definitely 
 has a great replay value. Even now with all the modern games around I still find myself playing 
 this one more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jur2
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 30, 2005 9:12 am PT
Review:  Max Payne was one of the games that introduces bullet-time. Nowadays, almost no game relesed since 
 have no bullet-time, for it is such an awesome feature.
  
  I first wanted to tell about the story and the atmosphere in this game. It is awesome. It's really 
 the kind of  atmosphere 
 (it is this that i miss in part 2) . Furthermore, the story is immense. It's about losing everything 
 and everyone, anger, rage, the mob, the whole nine yards. Within the comic-like cutscenes Max goes 
 in about a couple of philosophic and deep metaphores. I think what makes this atmosphere is the 
 way the game was built - no happyness, dark maps, dark places (the dockside of new york at night, 
 for instance) . The story is really complicated and surprising. Just when you think you understand 
 it, something new comes up and gives it a whole new direction. It takes you everywhere from the 
 dockside of new york to the corrupt hotels owned by maffia members. you even get to experience 
 how it is to be under influence of Valkyr, the designer drug. You even lose all your weapons once 
 in the game so you have to club people down with a baseball bat to get their weapons, so you have 
 to start all over again. I like that. All in all, You chase the corrupt maffia in the worst winter 
 storm this century during the night of new york with nothing to lose. You like? Yes, you like.
 
  
  Second, of course, is the action part. You constantly run into mobsters, Valkyr addicts and the 
 police, which, of course, you have to shoot. When you have trouble doing it , you can use bullet-time, 
 which, as most of you will know, slows down time. You can jump aside in slomo whilst shooting whilst 
 in the air. This really creates a movie-like scene. Your bullet-time is limited, however, but you 
 get about 5 seconds for each kill. This is good, elsely it would have been much too easy. If that 
 isn't enough, you have a wide selection of weapons at your disposal, such as beretta's, desert 
 eagles, Jackhammers, grenades, shotguns, ingrams, molotov coctails and a whole lot more. Enough 
 to keep you busy.
  
  There are a couple of minor bad things to the game. For example, instead of taking health packs, 
 you eat your way through a whole lot of painkillers. In the end of the game you must have taken 
 hundreds, meaning that you should have been dead as cause of an overdose. It's quite understandable, 
 on the other side, because health packs take time to take effect, painkillers work instantly. Further 
 from that, some bits in the game are as hard that you have to quickload up to 50 times to get it 
 right, and that's on the easy mode. For instance when you enter the Aysir Plaza or the baseball 
 bat part mensioned above. It's fun to have a challenge first, of course, but having to start over 
 and over again is just plain annoying.
  
  The bottom line: A great game with a perfect, depressed and angry atmosphere and complicated story. 
 The action rocks because of the bullet-time and the many weapons. It's defenately worth buying, 
 along with part 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 28, 2005 9:14 pm PT
Review:  It's nice to see that Hollywood has taken an interest in PC games, or games in general. The public 
 will realize that we aren't social outcasts or whatever else stereotype there is. Anyway, this 
 game was the first to use bullet-time, and after that there are many copycats but you have to give 
 the credit to Remedy. The plot was original and the graphics looked good. The Tomb Raider point 
 of view may have worried some, but in a game with bullet-time, it is really helpful. I don't know 
 why some other games have not used the 3rd person perspective with bullet-time, such as FEAR. You'd 
 expect the first bullet-time game to be some Matrix game, but it's not, and certainly everyone 
 wanted to try it out given this game. There are mods that have done exactly that, and like I said 
 earlier there are many spinoffs, such as the Opera mod for Half-Life, but non can rival the original. 
 A great single player game with groundbreaking bullet-time, a twisted plot - it'll go down in history 
 as one of the best games ever made. It plays like a movie and have you wondered, the entire game 
 takes place in 1 night? The only thing that holds this back from getting a higher score is the 
 value... no game is worth $50 or $60 in my mind. $30 would be where I'd want a new game to be, given 
 the fact that after a year it's chances of being in the bargain bin is significant but not warranted. 
 Games like Diablo II, which has been out for years and years, is still $20 by itself. The expansion 
 pack costs another $20, unbelievable how Blizzard milks the cash cow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loopy_101
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne took a long time to develop when it's hype was big. From 1997 to 2001 gamers were thrilled 
 by the concepts made by the game, the major one being bullet time. Although with that being said, 
 there is more to Max Payne then bullet time. Max Payne delivers an excellent story that is both 
 gritty and realistic. The game isn't afraid to delve into the problems with society, conspiracy 
 theories and insane cult beliefs. Although despite this, we're reviewing a game, not a movie.
 
  
  If Max Payne was a game to movie with that being said though, it would probably be one of the greatest 
 game to movies ever developed. At it's time, Max Payne had fantastic visuals. There was detail 
 absolutely everywhere. The characters looked realistic, the levels worked in conjunction with the 
 game's graphic novel system and the guns themselves take centre stage on simply how well they react 
 to the lighting of the game, while being detailed accurately themselves.
  
  Although despite this, Max Payne also has some brilliant music and voice acting, Once again, some 
 of the best in gaming which builds to whole cinematic atmosphere of the game. All the accents are 
 done precise and the music sets the tone and mood whenever it is played. Max Payne also is innovative 
 in it's gameplay, although this is arguably because of the bullet time that is the major feature 
 of the game. Which it is really, when the game doesn't use bullet time it feels as if a bare shooter, 
 and you can't ever rely completely on the bullet time. 
  
  Also, the game can be extremely hard at moments of the game. Some boss fights require well thought 
 out plans and are though provoking to say the least. Although it's a minor gripe. The only problem 
 the vast majority of people will have with Max Payne, is the actual length of the game - it is 
 short and feels unfinished at the end, with no really happy ending. This is realistic of course 
 but dissapointing since it is expanded on anyway ( the sequel looked for excuses to continue the 
 game) .
  
  But when it comes down to it, Max Payne kicks butt. Gamers won't be able to help but smile at some 
 of the bullet time moments, like intense shoot outs, surprise attacks and other cool things we've 
 always wanted to do with bullet time itself. If you can't buy Max Payne, at least try it. You won't 
 regret playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 20, 2005 4:03 am PT
Review:  Stop! Bullet Time! (U Can't Touch This)
  
  It was the 27th day of July - a Friday, and it was hot. It was the kind of heat that turns good 
 fans bad, circulating hot air around the office like an endless stream of the dragon's breath. 
 We were all sweltering, but it was business as usual, and business as usual meant not much business 
 at all. We wondered if anything could pry us from Lady Monotony's vise-like grip.
  
  Then he walked in.
  
  It was police officer (and developer Remedy's newest baby) Max Payne. 
 He charged into the office like a rabid hyena on steroids. He was spouting some crazed, insane 
 babble about Valkyries, drugs and being set up. None of it made any sense to me, just the inane 
 rantings of a desperate insomniac. But before I could escort him to the door, he shoved me to one 
 side and leapt into the CD tray of our innocent computer.
  
  I wasn't gonna stand in his way. After all, Remedy says his whole life was ripped apart in a New 
 York minute - whatever the hell that means. All we knew was he looked rough. Or maybe he just smelled 
 something foul. His face was contorted like something hurt bad, the kind of pain that can only 
 come from a diet of reheated Nacho Belle Grandes and endless cups of 7-11 coffee. But even still, 
 we couldn't turn him away. The man was on a hell-bent, by-any-means-necessary (yet extremely short) 
 mission to right wrongs. Max wanted revenge, cold and sweet, but he needed our help.
  CLICK TO SEE A VIDEO OF GAMEPLAY
  
  Max made it onto the GR hardrive without a hitch, but completely 
 disagreed with my Seagate 28Gig HD at home. Why? The jury's still out on that one. Just know that 
 Remedy's tech support is only open Mon-Fri, 9-5 Eastern time. So we advise against installing Max 
 over the weekend.
  
  No more than five minutes of gameplay had expired before I realized what Max was babbling about 
 when he stormed the GR office. Gorgeous and atmospheric story boards ala comic book graphic novels, 
 complete with sequential panels and word balloons filled with pulp detective dialogue, grace the 
 segments between the intense action and graciously compliment the game's gritty noir feel. Definitely 
 a pretty way to present a story, which ain't half bad.
  
  The pictures describe the brutal murder of his wife and baby daughter, an intricate setup for the 
 murder of his partner and some new drug called Valkyr that is plaguing the streets of New York. 
 It's all connected somehow and had funneled into a narrow, bullet-riddled mental causeway that 
 is Max's singular obsession... and now ours.
  
  Once the initial graphic novel sequence passes the first thing that immediately draws attention 
 is the mouth-watering visuals. The adherence to realism and meticulous detail is simply amazing. 
 The textures are some of the best we have ever seen - hands down. They're vibrant without being 
 too colorful to detract from the game's dark, brooding atmosphere.
  
  Plus, the level of destruction and incredible object interaction is enough to make a grown man 
 cry. For example, when a stray bullet bites into a wall, the tiles crumble apart like a crisp Frito 
 under the leaden heel of your neighborhood game geek. And it's not just walls - paper, boxes, bottles, 
 water coolers, glass windows, wooden staircases - every surface and object reacts appropriately 
 when met with speeding hot lead. A true technical achievement!
  
  While his visuals are outstanding, Max's gameplay is relatively status quo for a third-person shooter. 
 Most of your time is spent running and gunning through virtual New York's realistically designed 
 levels and buildings, dealing hot projectile death with the game's multitude of weapons (from a 
 baseball bat to pistols to machine guns) and picking up ammo and painkillers from fallen foes.
 
  
  But where other games simply go through the paces, Max Payne offers a new technical innovation 
 that has to be seen to be believed. Welcome to the John Woo-esque, Matrix inspired ballet that 
 is shoot-dodging and bullet time. These are two of the coolest and most stylistic features to be 
 introduced to the action genre since the polygon.
  
  With a press of the right mouse button while standing still, time is slowed down to a snail's pace 
 for a few seconds, but moving the cursor and aiming remains in real-time. The result is a beautifully 
 executed tactical advantage for you, Max, and the vendetta at hand. It gives you a few extra seconds 
 to dodge or target your foes. Move in any one of the four main directions (forward, back, left 
 and right) and press the right mouse button and Max will perform the classic shootdodging maneuvers 
 (jumping sideways and forwards or flying backwards with guns blazing) that have made Hong Kong 
 and now US action movies so popular.
  
  A meter indicates how much slow motion time you have and can be replenished by dispatching more 
 baddies. Both of these tricks are quite handy when faced with numerous enemies. We just wish the 
 odds were better stacked against Max in order to force you to shootdodge and bullet time your way 
 through more areas.
  
  The end result is incredibly cool and leads to some of the most startlingly cinematic sequences 
 in town. Imagine entering a room with three bad guys, jumping up on a table, then slowing time 
 down as you leap sideways in the air, rotating your body to unload a few shotgun shells into the 
 bastards. Their bullets whiz over your head (you actually SEE the bullets) .... but yours find their 
 mark. The bullet-time ends, the dust clears, and the carnage has been wrought. Awesome.
  
  Many of us were concerned how the control would fare in this new environment. Well, relax - moving 
 Max around is a simple affair. Anyone familiar with the first-person shooter genre will instantly 
 run and gun with ease. Yep, our boy Payne is manipulated by the now standard W, A, S and D on your 
 keyboard and aiming is handled with the mouse. Easy peasy!
  
  The sound is fine, but not stellar. Often Max's voice sounds like it's coming from some remote 
 location other than the character. Weird! Many of the guns didn't have that bassy boom that commands 
 your enemies' attention. Max could learn a lot from an old fogey like Counter-Strike. On the flipside, 
 the voice-acting is very good, and, when coupled with the cool music, complements the dark atmosphere.
 
  
  And then there's those annoying platformer elements. We don't want to spoil anything, but man, 
 is it lame. Frankly, we'd rather be shooting and dodging, slowing down time and emptying clips 
 into the well-modeled bad guys. The platform bits just seem thrown in to break the monotony, and 
 it still feels like a waste of game space.
  
  Which isn't to say that more varied gameplay is a bad thing. In fact, it's too bad Max doesn't 
 offer more variety. There are no vehicles to hop into and drive around New York or really anything 
 else FUN to break from the running and gunning (again, the platform parts aren't particularly pleasing) . 
 It's just a straightforward third person shooter... albeit overflowing with technological brilliance.
 
  
  Sadly, your adventure with Max will be over before you know it. It took us between 12-15 hours 
 to complete the whole game. That's really short considering how long it took them to make the game.
 
  
  This also means that the replay value is suspect. Completing the game leads to harder difficulty 
 settings and the cool but tough 'New York Minute' mode. Here the player has to motor through each 
 level with a clock counting down from 1 minute. You need to kill baddies to obtain more time. It's 
 pretty intense, but it's still just redoing the same levels in the same order with the same sequences 
 over and over again. And since there is no multiplayer, you better get used to killing those CPU 
 bad guys.
  
  Replay value is upped due to the built-in level editor, but it's just not as easy to use as advertised. 
 It might be simple enough for veteran designers, but most gamers will find it daunting and unwieldy. 
 I don't doubt many of you tech-philes out there will figure it out, though, so expect the mod scene 
 to explode in the coming months. Can you say Matrix mod?
  
  While not without its flaws, Max Payne is a must-have for any PC action gamer. It looks simply 
 unbelievable, the gameplay and control is easy and intuitive, and the bullet time makes it the 
 premier action game on the PC. We've entered a new realm here, people, and I can see the spoon.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CurrieG
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2005 6:07 am PT
Review:  I think Max pain was a very good game and quite fun. It took me a wee while to complete but i did. 
 Another thing I like about was when Max had his dreams and you had to dodge fires and walk on the 
 strangest things. I played it with my family my dad completed it if i can remember. I would recommend 
 this game to anyone. I would still play it if i still owned it because it never gets boring if 
 you leave it for a while and play it again. I know its getting boring now but i like old games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjolnir334
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 13, 2005 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne was one of the first games that used similar bullet time effects as the Matrix. Being 
 that this was one of the first it felt incredibly original and seemed like the coolest thing at 
 the time. Although now I pretty much loathe games that use bullet time. 
  
  Max Payne brought two great things to the table. The first being the bullet time. You can go into 
 bullet time for a limited period in order to dispatch your foes easier, and in some cases it can 
 be near impossible to win a fight without it. And, with an array of weapons ranging from dual berattas 
 to jackhammers (an automatic shotgun, not a drill) you'll have a lot fun going to see the bullets 
 fly in slow-mo. The other great thing that was provided in Max Payne was the brilliant story and 
 is probably one of the best in gaming. The story is told through a gritty comic, with Max narrating 
 in the background. This keeps you hooke to the story. 
  
  Despite it's great effects and great story Max Payne does yield a few problems. For one I found 
 that sometimes find the enemy A. I. didn't seem that smart. There were also a few levels that just 
 felt really weird. The main reason though is because they take place in Max Payne's mind, but if 
 your used to games that aren't totally normal (Metal Gear Solid series) these levels may seem normal, 
 but for the all out action gamer they may seem a little out of place.
  
  Max Payne, to me, is one of the most cinematic games to date. With it's thrilling story and great 
 gameplay Max Payne will keep you playing till the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I_love_Harmony
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 11, 2005 5:55 pm PT
Review:  I have to agree that Max Payne was a revolutionary title but I did not enjoy it that much. The 
 graphics and story are great but the gameplay is just above average. The whole bullet time thing 
 is fun at first but it wore thin for me a few levels in. The core shooting isnt too impressive 
 and there is not much else to do. I agree that this game is as great as it is said to be and will 
 prove great for fans of third person shooters but personally i didnt enjoy it that much simply 
 becuase the bullet time option is not something that can over ride the overall repetitive gameplay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: renegade_blue52
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2005 12:57 am PT
Review:  Max Payne for the PC is the better version of the game with less load screens better graphics and 
 a lot more scenes than in the other version, for example there is one scene where Max (your character) 
 walks into a room to obtain a key and the cops bust through a door and start to shoot at you, however 
 in the Xbox and PS2 versions this has been cut from the game. The only bad part of the game is 
 the control, it just feels weird and it is sometimes hard to aim at enemies, but everything else 
 is just great. The storyline is also real good, just when you think you have the bad guy you learn 
 that there is someone else its just so great. You should buy this game it is the better version 
 of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waqashussain
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2005 1:52 am PT
Review:  THIS IS AN EXELLENT GAME . IT HAS REALLY VERY HIGH GRAPHICS IT IS TRUE GAME WHICH EVERY ONE LIKES 
 IT . THE GRAPHICS ARE REALLY VERY HIGH THAT EVRY ONE ENJOY IT AND I ALSO ENJOY THIS GAME . I SPEND 
 LOT OF TIME TO PLAY THIS GAME EVEN I HAVE CLEARED ALL THE ROUNDS OF THE GAME BUT I M NOT BORED 
 ABOUT THIS GAME. I GAVE THIS 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 OUT OF 10 BECOUSE I LIKE THIS GAME 2 MUCH.
  I starts with 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 and i gave it 10 superb to this game. THis is superb game with 
 high graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 6, 2005 7:51 am PT
Review:  
  I remember I went to the store buy game Enter the matrix, but unfortunately my computer wasnt 
 able to produce quality gameplay. Disappointed I went back to the store and said that I couldn't 
 run the game and guy in store proposed to me purchase Max Payne. He said that this game is with 
 the same futures, which I am looking in Matrix. 
  That how I bought my Max Payne game. I must say I am glad that I did it. When I enter game I didnt 
 realize about anything, after 10-15 minute I got all controls of game and just enjoyed it. 
  
  Graphic was definitely astonishing, old comics related graphic with New York City slums with 
 a lot of outlaws in it. And etc. this game just was perfectly matched actually what I am looking 
 for. Plus, The Matrix effects in game were incredibly fun and made my game play more colorful. 
 I couldnt stop, and it is made this game one of my best and favorite games. 
  After finished game my thoughts were only about sequel. I didnt even know that sequel have 
 been already released, and now in stock. 
  That is right my next step was purchasing the Max Payne 2: The fall of Max Payne.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrCHUP0N
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2005 10:13 pm PT
Review:  [This review originally appears on TRIGAMES. NET.]
  
  Back in 1999 when the movie, The Matrix, came out, "Bullet Time" was all the rage -- slow-motion 
 cinematography involving cameras that flew around the action for an insane 360-degree view of bullets 
 swirling through the air.
  
  Needless to say, it kicked MUCH arse.
  
  Cue Remedy Software, a development house of of Finland bent on making a photo-realistic game that 
 employed the ever-cool Bullet Time as its big gimmick. Because the Matrix would not come out in 
 videogame form for another three years, Max Payne was indeed a remedy (yes, bad pun intended) for 
 those who wanted to pretend they were Neo, bustin' gats in slow-mo. I was one of them. And after 
 finally finding the balls to blast through the endless hordes of enemies that the game threw at 
 you by the third and final part, I have to say that Max Payne is one of the coolest games I've 
 ever played.
  
  Remedy took a few unique approaches to the game overall, in gameplay and storytelling. Max Payne 
 takes a decidedly "film noir" stance on things, with a grim storyline revolving around a guy whose 
 life became an unhappy drag -- and is about to become a living hell. Death for the people he loves 
 and trusts. Being framed and stuck in the most inescapable situations. Having showers of bullets 
 rain on him from several gunmen at once.
  
  Max takes a journey through New York's streets in the dead of winter, getting in between mob wars 
 and government conspiracies. It's all captured in a mixture graphic novel style storyboards and 
 real-time cutscenes as opposed to FMV's. The real-time cutscenes are standard fare, but the graphic 
 novel panes are an interesting way to move the story along. If I'm not mistaken, all the "actors" 
 for the graphic novel characters are Remedy staff members, with the story's writer, Sam Lake, starring 
 as Max Payne and lending his lovely "constipated" face to the character's persona. The panes are 
 stylized through some sort of grainy filter. Meanwhile all the speech in the speech bubbles, along 
 with all the in-game quips, is fully voice-acted -- and extremely well I might add. It all just 
 ends up looking and sounding cool -- there's no other (i. e. more intelligent) way to describe it.
 
  
  But what I came to see was the Bullet Time moreso than the graphic novels. And boy was I in for 
 a treat. Max Payne generally plays like a first person shooter, except you see Max's model. (So 
 I guess it's a third person first person shooter. Whatever :P) Without considering the Bullet Time, 
 Max Payne would be a very fun shooter in it's own right. The game throws so many enemies at you, 
 and gives you such a plethora of weapons to choose from, that the sheer sight of bullets and buckshot 
 (yes, you see the trails of bullets in the air even when not in bullet time) is enough to make 
 an Action Jackson shriek with school-girlish delight. (Think Ned Flanders when he saw his purple 
 drapes type shrieking.)
  
  But Bullet Time slows the world around Max down -- in effect allowing him to aim much more effectively 
 at his assailants. Max can activate Bullet Time at the press of a key, so that he can walk around 
 the room in slo-mo and cap everything in sight, OR he can "shoot-dodge" -- that is, dive in a direction 
 while activating Bullet Time for the duration of the dive. What results is that you can dive from 
 cover to cover, ripping up dudes with Mac-10 spray during your dive. You can dive towards or from 
 a gunman while pelting him with your shotgun blasts. And in case you start to think that this game 
 is like survival-horror where you need to conserve ammo, Remedy makes sure that you keep firing 
 by rewarding enemy deaths with more Bullet Time, which is indicated by a meter next to your health.
 
  
  Of course Bullet Time is a cool concept from a gameplay perspective, but actually seeing the damn 
 mechanic in action really gives you a videogaming high. Everything slows down -- you see Max and 
 his enemies move as if in a vat of mud, pellets and bullets floating through the air, flames flickering 
 slower and explosions blooming like flowers. Cooler still is the distortion of all the sound effects 
 around you. Blasts become muffled and elongated as you hear every single bullet leaving the chamber 
 of your semi-auto. It's a breathtaking audio-visual experience that must be experienced.
  
  Thus, visually, screenshots wouldn't do Max Payne justice. However, even screenshots will show 
 you how much effort Remedy put into making this game look superb. Environments look almost photorealistic, 
 if not truly photorealistic. The texturing is exquisite -- even on Medium settings they look very 
 sharp and convincing. Most of the environments are boxy but hey, this was 2000 and before DirectX 
 9's time. Also, every shot leaves marks on the walls. Try standing back and peppering a hotel room 
 with machine-gun fire. Even more fun, try spelling your name in the wall. It's also always fun 
 to watch the character models flail and fly through the air when a grenade tags them with a huge 
 blast. The models could have been a bit less blocky, but they still moved and looked more convincing 
 than say, Tommy Vercetti of GTA: Vice City fame. I started this game when it was first released 
 and finished in October of 2003 -- it still looksamazing to me, even better than some PC games 
 today (hands down better than a lot of console games) .
  
  I guess now it's time for the bad parts, but I can't honestly consider them bad. I'll tell you 
 why in a second, but let me get started. Max Payne is incredibly linear. There are some side-rooms 
 that you can venture into perhaps to pick up some extra ammo and pain killers (your main method 
 of restoring health) , but there's basically one way to beat the level -- and that's it. It's also 
 not very versatile -- Max Payne is just pure shooting. No intense puzzle solving. No fetching, 
 and no key cards (thank GOD for that, though) . No character building -- the Max you start with 
 is the Max you end with. In fact for all the glitter and polish put into the game's cinematic feel 
 (it even includes dream sequences which involve no combat at all) , people could just as easily 
 declare this "game" an "interactive movie."
  
  But hell. It's incredibly interactive. You shoot stuff. Lots of stuff. YOU SHOOT LOTS OF STUFF. 
 Need I say it again? Max Payne is ABOUT SHOOTING LOTS AND LOTS OF STUFF. At its heart, Max Payne 
 is just about the bullet and nothing else. For those few who had to criticize it for being one-dimensional, 
 I say the bullet is the only dimension this particular game needs. That's how fun it is. It can 
 be finished in a weekend, and to me it didn't have that much replay value -- but just experiencing 
 the game once is an overload of pleasure for the aural and visual senses that one play-through 
 is enough have you drooling and gaping.
  
  I guess what I'm trying to say is, this may not be the "best" game out there, but it's one of those 
 games that if you haven't played... you're a loser. Just kidding. But you owe it to yourself -- 
 if you are a fan of action games -- to play this game. Period. Then you owe it to yourself to go 
 out and play the sequel, because that's also so kick arse that I almost needed new pants. In summation 
 -- THANK YOU Remedy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alf-Hazard
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 29, 2005 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Here's a quick overview on Max Payne:
  
  Gameplay:
  +lots of guns
  +extremely well paced
  +action is incredible
  +story is good
  +great voice acting
  +lots 
 of small details like ability to shoot paintings off walls 
  +bullet time is extremely well implemented and works flawlessly
  +atmosphere is way better than 
 Max Payne 2
  +awesome snowy New York setting with noir locales
  +simplistic yet incredibly in depth
  -a tad short
  +but there are mods
  -a shame that there 
 are no amazing physics like MP2 (oh well, i guess it's what makes it a classic)
  
  Graphics:
  +sharp and detailed textures
  +while the polygon count may be low, the use of textures, 
 lighting, and atmosphere create great looking, and believable environments
  +enemies look detailed and realistic (sorta)
  -the sky textures are unimpressive
  -the animation 
 is very mechanical
  
  Sound:
  +guns sound just as they should
  +the bad guys sometimes are quite funny
  -they do get repetitive though
  +voice acting jumps 
 from humorous to serious without getting out of track
  +great music
  
  Value:
  -short
  +replayable
  +tons of mods
  +only like what, ten bucks?
  
  All in all, Max Payne 
 is a true classic that after five years, is still very fun to play. Every time I play this game, 
 I learn something new about it or find new ways of defeating enemies in certain situations. I would 
 recommend Max Payne 2 newer and more complex gunfights. Pick up both this and the sequel. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trendkill351
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 19, 2005 6:46 pm PT
Review:  in max payne, u play as a cop, who comes home and find his wife and child dead. and u seek revenge. 
 u find out that it was the russian mob who has killed your family. and gust to make max's mission 
 to seek revenge, the russians get the cops to belive that it was max himself, who has has murdered 
 hes family. so at this point your fighting cops and russians. in max payne, u have a great line 
 up of weapons, such as brettas desert eagles, shotgun, swed off shotgun, m16, jackhamer, grenade launcher, 
 etc. the gameplay in this game will bring a lot of fun to shoot em up fans. the only major problem 
 with this game is the graphics, the fases look flat. but the game was made in 2001. now u can find 
 the game for a console for 8 bucks and ive seen the pc version new for 3 dollars, with a bonus 
 mouse pad. if u smart, ud listin to what im telling u and waste the 8 bucks and buy a game that 
 revolitionalized thrid person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liorde
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 14, 2005 8:06 am PT
Review:  This is the major thing I loved about the game. The story. The blend of the comics plot and the 
 real-life hard-core shooter was done beautifully. You learn about the characters in the comics 
 sequences, which are pretty dark & grim although some of them also have a bit of cynical humor. 
 Then as you play and advance in the game you see those characters in "real life". I was also very 
 touched by Payne's pain as the cutscenes and Payne's nightmare levels really looked liked you are 
 playing through a nightmare, feeling his sorrow as he discovers what has come up with his family... 
 Simply beautiful!
  
  When this game came out back in 2001 it was quite revolutionary due to it's high-end graphics , 
 it's "Bullet-Time" effects and of course the relentless action. I played the game only 2 years 
 later. It was a blast. 
  The gameplay itself is pretty simple and stright-forward. There are no locations where you are 
 stuck and know not what to do next. The developers did a good job here.
  
  Although the AI in this game is not too brilliant as you would be able to shoot down enemies one 
 after another when they rush towards you, it does not diminish the game's fun. Also, you cannot 
 crouch, if this bothers anyone, meaning that there is actually no sneaking in this game. It's more 
 a "BHAM BHAM POW" type of game.
  
  I can clearly say that as I am writing this review, I feel like going home and installing the game 
 again and playing it through one more time. The game is not that long, just around 20 hours to 
 complete, depending on your difficulty level. Those levels unlock once you completed the game at 
 least once.
  
  If you never played this game then you should. Don't miss it out. Also you should play the second 
 game which has better graphics, sound and even better plot & story.
  
  This game is actually a milestone (IMHO) , in game development since it "invented" some of the Matrix 
 effects and implemented them in a fluid & innovative way inside the game. After this game came 
 out, some other games made use of the bullet time effect, namely "Chaser", "The Matrix", "Total 
 Overdose" and "F. E. A. R". This game is a classic to be remembered..!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: elliot_
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 12, 2005 11:42 am PT
Review:  This game is beautiful.
  With revolucionary grafics in his time and with a great history, made this game one of the greatest 
 game of 2001, i think this game is a classic.
  The game was big. And max payne put for the first time in one game the bullet time, that now is 
 used in lot of games, one great example is the need for speed most wanted who has something inpired 
 in max payne or the matrix: P and its a race simulation game.
  The grafics in max payne were the best, and put the mouth of every one open, of corse nothing like 
 FF10 but really amasing too..
  The game is very big and really adictive... till the end..
  Is one of greatest 3th person shooter ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_knight150
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2005 11:52 am PT
Review:  Ah yes, a new catergory that follows the trails of the standard third person actions games. Yet 
 this has an exception, this game has fun and revolutionary aspects that make it a refreshing game. 
 
  The game follows a "love noir" plot, followng the footsteps of Max Payne, a detective who's recently 
 endured both the killings of friends and family. Max Payne goes on a revengful gunfight to find 
 out the identity behind the murder. The plot continues to evolve throughout the game, and clever 
 camera angles make this feel more like a game than a movie. You'll have the ability to gain bullet-time 
 during limited portions, making it easier to land bullets through an intense gunfight. You'll meet 
 a number of memorable characters, some of who will change with the twists of the plot during the 
 game, making for an intriguing game. I'm not going to ruin it, but it's definitly worth the play. 
 On the graphical point of view, for it's time the graphics were pretty good. Some parts show lackluster 
 textures, but it's not too bad. Multiple face animations change the character's emotion and add 
 further to the depthness. It's pretty lenghy, and certain challenging parts keep the structure 
 together, a solution to the o'l problem of boring game symtoms.
  Overall this game is excellent and is definitly worth checking out. It's a value price for an exceptional 
 game. It's captivating story line and memorable characters add to the great experience you'll have 
 playing this game. Unfortunatly with this game, you either love or hate this game so make sure 
 you're a fan of third person shooters. With that in mind, check this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suicide2005
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 14, 2005 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne is the best third-person game ever. The PC version is the best version, that is for sure, 
 quite frankly i'd take a keyboard over a controller anyday. Max Payne is a really, really long 
 game, why people said the game was short is beyond me. Graphically it is pretty average, the character 
 models are terribly ugly and the faces just look cut & pasted on the characters. Also, the one 
 thing i always find amusing about Rockstar games is that no matter who develops the games for Rockstars, 
 you can pull any weapon out of your pockets, no matter what size, that makes me laugh. 
  This game is almost like watching a full blown movie. I loved the way they told the story, almost 
 like a comic book, which is really cool. Bullet-time is also a nice feature, for a video game that 
 was really original and almost every game has tried to copy it since.
  I really liked the character, Mona Sax was my favorite, even though she wasn't used as much as 
 she would be in Max Payne 2, her character really did stand out in Max Payne.
  Overall, Max Payne is a true hit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 13, 2005 2:37 am PT
Review:  The graphics are great and very moody and dark. Blood on the walls and things like that makes this 
 game very dark and scary. 
  
  The sounds are great too and features a great theme melody. The sound effects are good and are 
 very realistic. 
  
  The game is as said before dark and scary and that is really one of the things that makes this 
 game so great. But now over to the thing that really makes this game shine and that's the slo-motion 
 effects. You can use them whenever you want to and creates an extreme shooting feeling. You can 
 jump towards the bad guys while shooting and using slo-mo and this may be one of the coolest things 
 that's ever been in a game. The game isn't that long, but it's pretty hard. At least I remember 
 I used some time finishing it. There are many different weapons and there are many different bad 
 guys to use them on, cause you meet up with the badest and darkest guys in New York, I can promise 
 you that! If you haven't played this game yet, it's seriously in time you do so. 
  
  + 
  A dark and moody New York featuring a great story about Max Payne. Slo-motion looks and plays great. 
 The shooting feeling is one of the best ever. Great graphics and sounds. 
  
  - 
  I really can't come up with anything! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarsLander
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 15, 2005 9:06 am PT
Review:  Wow and Double Wow, I mean wow what a game. Max Payne is one of the coolest games to come out on 
 the PC in a long time. And that's saying a lot with all the great shooters out there. Let's begin 
 the coolness with a word of caution, this is one tough game, I don't know how many times I had 
 to reload a gun battle scene because I got my Ass handed to me on a silver platter by the bad to 
 the bone enemies, but it was a lot. However because of an in-game save system ( thank god for that 
 ) it made those amazing gun battles less frustrating. Now on to the meat of the game. You play 
 as Max Payne a tough as nails NY-PD detective trying to solve the mystery behind the people that 
 murdered his family. Now the storyline for the game isn't very memorable, but that's not what this 
 game is really all about, this game is about great action sequences thrown at you one right after 
 the other. The story is there just to give you a reason to go on. There are a few lame things besides 
 the story, like the way the story is told through a graphic novel approach that looks really low 
 budget when you play the game you'll see what I mean. But I'm nit picking here alittle the overall 
 entertainment value is top notch so give it a try. Oh how could I forget about bullet time that's 
 one of the main reasons the game is so cool, there's this button you can push during game play 
 that slows down the action ( like slow motion ) so you can get the jump on your enemies very cool. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GunmetalXIII
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2005 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne is still a thoroughly enjoyable experience that shouldnt be overlooked because of its 
 age. Its a wonderful blend of intense action and stylized presentation. The two aspects seem to 
 compliment each other. The graphic novel sequences narrate the game in a way that a cinematic cant, 
 and the actual gameplay brings action sequences to another level of intensity. If youre looking 
 for a compelling story in a shooter, or just have an itchy trigger finger, this game is for you.
 
  
  Max is given plenty of reason to start shooting. When his family is killed by junkies on a new 
 designer drug, he transfers to the DEA. After three years of undercover work, he finds himself 
 out of options when his only outside contact is killed and Max is framed for the murder. He begins 
 a personal crusade against the criminal underground, wiping out mobsters and looking for answers 
 along the way. As the story progresses, he meets a wide variety of characters (mostly enemies) 
 who are brought to life through the wonderful graphic novel interface. Maxs character is also 
 well developed, as youll see his reactions to your current situation. He even addresses his guilt 
 over the loss of his family. Remedy manages to deliver on the revenge motive, resulting in an ultimately 
 satisfying experience that justifies all the action that takes place.
  
  The shooting sequences are particularly impressive due to the shootdodge and bullet time features. 
 Shootdodge allows Max to lunge in any direction in bullet time while aiming and shooting in real 
 time. This is useful in many situations, as youll often be outnumbered. On top of that, it looks 
 extremely cool. The action is simple enough to for anyone to grasp, and addictive enough to last 
 through the whole game. There are some levels that deviate in part from the shooting formula, but 
 theyre just as fun as the rest of the game. It seems the gameplay was heavily influenced by a 
 lot of action movies, and Max Payne perfectly captures the essence of being an action hero. At 
 times, youll hear enemies talk to each other about their favorite movies, or how cool it would 
 be to go into bullet time. This is a nice way of paying homage to the influences of Max Payne 
 while adding a little humor to an otherwise serious experience. Although Remedy borrows heavily 
 from some movies and stories, the end result is something very original because of how its executed.
 
  
  Another innovation Max Payne makes is the inclusion of a difficulty system that adjusts as you 
 play the game. This is a great way to make the game beatable to people of many skill levels. The 
 difficulty is ramped up towards the end however, which lends your final confrontations a feeling 
 of greater importance. Upon beating the game, youll unlock a harder mode that, once finished, 
 unlocks an even harder mode. These modes, along with a timed mission variant give an otherwise 
 short and linear game some replay value.
  
  There are a variety of weapons at your disposal, and more powerful weapons gained as the game progresses 
 help to keep the action fresh. Weapons range from dual pistols to a semi-automatic shotgun. Combat 
 is primarily up close, but there are some occasions where youll get to whip out a sniper rifle 
 to deal with bad guys from afar. Each weapon is both unique in terms of application and handling, 
 and choosing the right one adds a level of strategy to an otherwise straightforward game.
  
  Graphically, Max Payne looks a little below average at worst. The special effects are still 
 cool enough to warrant appreciation, while the animations appear a little awkward and aged compared 
 to new-fangled physics engines. Theres an impressive amount of attention to detail, with nice 
 little touches like metal detectors going off (a nod to the infamous lobby scene in The Matrix) 
 and telephones emitting electrical shocks when shot. There are also a lot of destructible objects 
 featured, from boxes to beer glasses. Seeing the carnage youve caused after a fight allows you 
 to appreciate the magnitude of enemy encounters. Its not as impressive as it was in 2001, but 
 at a budget price, it doesnt have to be. And despite its age, Max Payne is still a visually entertaining 
 game.
  
  The score in Max Payne does its job, with audio cues of a fast paced rock techno beat accompanying 
 large battles and various other melodies after an important revelation or during a time of suspense. 
 The sound effects are top notch; its awesome to hear a siren, explosion, or a taunt from an enemy 
 shift to a baritone level in slow motion. It certainly adds another layer of immersion to not only 
 see but hear that youre in bullet time. Also, it never gets old hearing enemies exclaim What 
 the! as you dive into a room, guns blazing. The characters are well acted overall, and the voice 
 of Max Payne does an excellent job not only with both the acting and narration.
  
  The excellent sound, presentation, story, and gameplay mechanics all come together to form a coherent 
 and original package. Pick this one up if youre at all interested; its at a very reasonable price.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aggie1295
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 20, 2005 2:35 am PT
Review:  I'm usually not a fan of 3rd person shooters or action games. I camera always drives me nuts since 
 it usually keeps you from seeing what is in front of you. Plus, 3rd person shooters just aren't 
 as immersive as FPS games. However, Max Payne is the exception. It is done from the 3rd person 
 viewpoint, but it keeps the camera where it should be, behind the hero. You are able to see what 
 you are trying to shoot at, which is kind of nice. Not only that, but Max Payne has the bullet 
 time system, that adds moves staight out of a John Woo movie. It is just a cool game to play.
 
  
  The story is kind of convoluted, but good in a film noir type sense. The cut scenes being in comic 
 form added to the atmosphere. Plus, there are a lot of things going on in the background, TV shows 
 and conversations to overhear, that add to the story. 
  
  The action scenes are first rate. Like I mentioned, I just loved the bullet time aspects. You have 
 a good selection of weapons to use and some challenging enemies. It kept the game fun and full 
 of action.
  
  The only two complaints I have with the game are its length and the dream levels. The game is kind 
 of short. I really wish they would've made it longer. The dream levels were kind of irritating. 
 Nothing drives me crazier than a dream maze that I can't figure out how to get out of.
  
  Overall, Max Payne is a great game. I would highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: montzag
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 11, 2005 6:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. The story is wonderful, and while is a little cliche all the twists and turns 
 make it a great thrill ride. Pretty much, a cop gets his family killed by some junkies. A few years 
 later, when his best friend is also killed in connection with the same drug that the junkies were 
 using when they murdered his wife and baby girl, he decides that's it. He goes all out and wants 
 to get to the bottom of this, no matter how many people he sends to hell...
  
  Pretty exciting right? Yes it is, there is a good story that will hook you through all the great 
 levels in this game. Levels are linear, but you don't really notice because they are action packed 
 and crammed with mobster-killing fun. The story is also told through comic book story boards, which 
 is great as they are superbly narrated. They are very effective in telling the story and the voice 
 acting is among the best I've ever heard. Bullet time, which you might have seen in The Matrix, 
 is a great feature. It allows for any number of ways to kill enemies. You can run and gun them 
 all the the ground or you can go bullet time and take some out strategically before ducking under 
 cover to reload. Or you could do my favorite and go bullet time and be the time the clip empties, 
 you'll be surrounded by a plethora of bleeding bodies and smoking shell casings. This si a great 
 game with awesome action and one very cool feature that could revolutionize gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrBlake
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2005 7:32 am PT
Review:  This game is very very excellent. As I stated before. The gameplay itself is innovative and the 
 story is gripping. 
  The film noir graphic novelesqe style is very gritty and very real. Making this story seem like 
 it could very well happen. Minus the guy surviving every gunfight pitted against him. But nevertheless, 
 a very excellently put together storyline.
  The graphics, for the time, mind you I'm reviewing this 4 years after the fact it came out, are 
 very very good for its time. The particle effects are excellent, and the character models, are 
 probably the least of graphics, but still well done.
  The sound is superb. The sound effects, to the music, to the environmental noises, to the voices. 
 AHHH the voices. They are some of the best I have heard in a video game. Well done, well done.
 
  Now, the only reason I give the game value an 8, rather than a 6 or 7 (because of the games rather 
 short story, and its lack of other modes that entertain for long) is because I have downloaded 
 a few mods. So as the Matrixed Reality Pupu version mod, and the KungFu Mod. Both add tons and 
 tons of replay value. Not to say that it has none anyways, but still. 
  Overall, an excellent game. Graphics good, gameplay great and original. Sound excellent, replay 
 value decent, with mods good. Overall a very good choice 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 14, 2005 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Developers are always looking for new and innovative ways to make games for fans. Each time trying 
 to be different from the norm instead of repeatedly making the same game. Remedy Entertainment 
 took some ideas from different movies and games and released Max Payne on July 23 of 2001. The 
 developers put together a third person shooter that had a good story throughout the game, but also 
 added some nice effects such as bullet time, which is reminiscent of what Neo did at the end 
 of the first Matrix movie. Remedy Entertainment made a game that fans of different types of games 
 could love because of the ease of use of the controls, the good looking graphics for that time 
 (2001) , and the main character himself, a man without fear.
  
  Coming home from a day of undercover work for the Police Department, Max comes upon a gruesome 
 scene of doped up men that have broke into his home and killed his wife and new born baby. Does 
 that sound like a good start to a wholesome family game? Nope, and it only gets more gruesome as 
 you trace the murderers trail back to the person who orchestrated the whole ordeal. But you wont 
 receive any help from New Yorks Police Department, because you were framed for the murder of one 
 of your partners and now youre trying to keep one step of the cops, while brutally murdering, 
 what seems like, all the gangsters in New York City. The only friend youll find along the way 
 is a Russian mob leader who, for some reason, has morals when dealing with mob business. But you 
 dont have to worry about obeying anyone or playing Mr. Nice Guy during the games three chapters 
 because youll be too busy mowing down enemies left and right and having a hard enough time tripping 
 over the bodies to proceed through the game. Throughout the three chapters of the storyline, Max 
 Payne will come across numerous plot twists as he strives to exact revenge on the person behind 
 his torment.
  
  The graphics in the game are good for 2001, but you can find some faults. An interesting feature 
 in Max Payne is whats known as bullet time, which helps Max out in many different and difficult 
 situations. Drawing inspiration from the Matrix, Remedy Entertainment lets Max slow down time while 
 he dives or fires off his gun and thus, enables him to take out more enemies or dodge bullets more 
 easily than the normal person. The environment gives way to some involvement letting Max break 
 apart boxes, shooting cans of air to explode in front of his enemies, and also letting him shoot 
 out some walls to advance on through each chapter. The graphics look nice as a whole, but there 
 arent any facial animations on any of the characters. Theyre given expressions and thats the 
 way their face is. Does this make the games graphics engine horrible? Not at all, youll be having 
 too much fun blowing bullets through henchman after henchman.
  
  The story of Max Payne is told in two different ways. One way is through short in-game cinematics 
 which will usually lead into a heavy gun battle scene and the second is done between each part 
 of the chapters and during certain points in the game. In these times, the game will tell the story 
 or information in a comic book type way. It may not seem like the most graphically intense way 
 to tell a storyline, but while playing, it seems to suit the game just fine. 
  
  As you make progress through the storyline, youll be given a huge assortment of weaponry from 
 baseball bats, to dual berettas, to a M79 Grenade Launcher. Max Payne wont be led into any battle 
 without the proper equipment. One nice feature with the sniper rifle that youll find later on 
 in the campaign is when you zoom in to aim and shoot at an enemy, the camera will actual follow 
 the bullet as it makes its course towards the gun-wielding foe. 
  
  The sound of each weapon is different and the voices of the characters were done well throughout 
 the storyline. Youll be hearing Max Paynes voice the most, but not just because hes the main 
 character, but because hes telling the story after the game has actually happened. You begin the 
 game, pretty much following the last scene of the game, and then Max will begin to tell how he 
 got there. Definitely a creative way to get the player into the game. It doesnt necessarily give 
 anything away, which is nice, but adds enough info to make the player want to progress till the 
 end. 
  
  The game doesnt have a multiplayer feature, but it does ship with a game editor for fans of the 
 community to create their own levels that they can share with everyone else. Over the past couple 
 of years, many mods have been made to add or improve the game that can be found across the internet. 
 Another addition to the game is the mode of play called new York Minute. Where youll be given 
 one minute to complete each level of the game. If you thought the game was hard the first time 
 through, this feat will seem impossible.
  
  Overall, Max Payne is an intense 3rd person shooter from the beginning chapter till the end. Although 
 the chapters are split up into numerous sections, the actual game length is quite short, only being 
 around 10 hours long, but with different mods and the different modes of play, Max Payne will give 
 any player a great experience as they unravel the reason behind Maxs pain and suffering. Add the 
 fact that theres an impressive story with decent graphics and that makes enough sense for any 
 gamer to at least try this game out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mithu1234
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 4, 2005 1:31 pm PT
Review:  MAX PAYNE EXPANDS THE POSSIBILITY OF PC GAMING. U SPRINT SIDEWAYS, FIRE BULLETS WHILE SPRINTING IN 
 SLOW MOTION AND WHAT NOT. THIS GAME IS ROCKING, BE IT GRAPHICS, SOUND, GAMEPLAY ALL IN ALL A COMPLETE 
 THIRD PERSON PC SHOOTER.
  BUT SIDE BY SIDE, THIS MATRIX STYLE GAME NEEDS A HIGH ENERGY LEVEL, LOT OF FOCUS, DEDICATION WHICH 
 OFCOURSE DEMANDS LOTS OF HOURS OF GAMEPLAY AND A DOZEN CHEAT CODES TO MAKE UR JOB LESS DIFFICULT.
 
  
  GRAPHICS: 8/10, THE GRAPHICS ARE DECENT AND ADD TO THE GRIPPING STORY LINE AND EYE CATCHING SEQUENCES.
 
  
  SOUND: 8.5/10, THE SOUND OF SHOT GUN JUST BLASTS THROUGH UR SPEAKER.
  
  GAMEPLAY:9.2/10 
  
  OVERALL: 8/10, THIS GAME WILL DEFINITELY BE A PRICED ADDITION TO UR COLLECTION. GO 
 GET IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TimmyVermicelli
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 19, 2005 11:40 pm PT
Review:  Everyone know The Matrix, famed for it's "bullet-time" and "slow-mo" action scenes. But it hadn't 
 really been used to anyone half-decent effect. Then Max Payne came along and changed not only that, 
 but a lot more...
  
  First off, the graphics in Max Payne were way ahead of it's time. Even on low-end PC's, Max Payne 
 worked superbly, and all the weather effects looked pretty incredible. The guns were amazingly 
 accurately modelled, the characters and baddies were also subject to emotions and were realistic, 
 and the objects were made to absolute perfection. Another feature, however, which really is astounding, 
 is the graphic novels that push the story forward. They are suitably cartoony, and give the desired 
 effect of being pulled straight out of a comic strip. In my opinion, they are a masterstroke and 
 are an innovative alternative to set-pieces and cut scenes. The buildings are textured well, and 
 glitches are very occasional, if even there at all, and everything seems to have a certain sheen, 
 which adds a new dimension to the game, making it feel unique compared to other games in it's genre. 
 Overall, Max Payne's graphics are amazing, and compared to other games released around that time, 
 almost revolutionary.
  
  Playing Max Payne is like playing a dream. It responds to your every touch, it shoots at your every 
 click, it goes into bullet-time at your every (right) click. It feels like there really is a fugitive 
 at your disposal to wreak havoc. The controls are set out pretty well, and it's easy to remember 
 what each button does. Not only that, but they are all effective and not "clumsily" laid out. Another 
 great control aspect is the fact that there isn't a whole load of buttons, and they are all mainly 
 kept to one area, something of which many PC games don't do, and suffer as a result of it. The 
 story is a stunner too, and it will keep you playing. The "whodunnit" feature of the storyline 
 drags you along with it, and it all has a feel of a movie. Like Max says in the opening sequence, 
 "It feels like I've got the best seat in the house. Front row, center". The game isn't glitchy 
 at all either, so the game slides along smoothly at a great pace. 
  
  The lifespan of Max Payne is long, let's leave it there. The game itself isn't too long, in fact 
 it's quite short, but you will keep coming back for another piece of the action. Another good point 
 about the lastability is the fact that it feels different each time you play it. You will have 
 different theories about the ending (it's a stunner!) , you will like different characters and you 
 will feel differently about the story. All of these points means that Max Payne excels in the Value 
 category.
  
  Sound is what makes a shooting game. And Max Payne doesn't disappoint. Characters will react to 
 shots fired, they will groan in agony as they take damage and they will scream and yell loudly 
 when they die. It gives a cinematic feel, once again. Each gun sounds unique, each door creaks 
 differently, each ordinary person has a different voice. It adds another quality to the game that 
 not many games, even today, can match. Superb stuff.
  
  Overall, Max Payne is a great game that screams quality. It looks great, sounds phenomenal and 
 will keep you playing for literally months. My advice? If you haven't bought it, buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rover301
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 12, 2005 12:30 pm PT
Review:  When I first played the game I almost fell from my chair. Max Payne is a stylish third-person shooter 
 that combines John Woo action with bullet-time in a film noir setting. The graphics and extremely 
 detailed textures are amazing. There is a little clipping now and then but that doesn't bother. 
 Max Payne just looks amazing. My only complaints are that its short and that it lacks any multiplayer 
 modes.
  
  The gameplay is very good. I don't know if Max Payne was this good without bullet-time. Bullet-time 
 is spectacular. You hear the pounding of Maxs heart and a rush of air. The sound of the guns becomes 
 muted. If you're a matrix fan, I'm sure you love this game. Even if you're not, you'll still love 
 this game. 
  
  Max Payne story is with lots of film clichs but it is done in style. The story is presented in 
 graphic novels and some cutscenes. The monotone voice of Max Payne, thanks to James McCaffrey, 
 the areas and the weather adds up to the gritty atmosphere. 
  
  The shoot outs are superb. Its stunning to watch and even better to play. If your looking for 
 an action game with a good story and very cool battles and a lots of bad guys, this is a must have 
 for the pc. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: squeekikleen
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2005 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne is a stylish third-person shooter that effectively combines John Woo style action with 
 Matrix-like bullet-time in a film noir setting. It is engaging and the pace is just right. It 
 excels in presentation and gameplay  in fact, the only complaint I have is that it may be too 
 short.
  
  Max Paynes story is replete with film clichs  normally, this is a bad thing. However, in this 
 case, it is done in style. The story is presented through a series of comic-book clippings with 
 a voice-over, in addition to some cutscenes. The bland monotone voice of Max adds to the atmosphere 
 along with the vehement weather conditions delineated in the game; moreover, its sets a perfect 
 tone as its analogous to the film noir backdrop. Dark corridors, dreary motels, and mob hangouts 
 all play a part in this. Furthermore, all this is supported by an excellent graphics and sound 
 display. The graphics can really be beefed up with lots of options making the game-world appear 
 in first-rate detail.
  
  Along with a superb presentation, the gameplay is equally outstanding. The introduction of bullet-time 
 makes for some tense action and is executed exceptionally. This is the second game I played with 
 bullet-time (the first being, Hitman: Codename 47 where a patch made it possible) but this game 
 is the first game where it shines and becomes an essential part of the gameplay. In addition, there 
 are lots of fun weapons to use, and some can be held akimbo  my favourite would be dual-uzis.
 
  
  Max Payne excels in all areas; however, it may be too short for many. But the way it is set up 
 is that one is too play through it several times as the harder difficulty settings  and the timed 
 setting  are only unlocked after completing the game for the first time. And playing through a 
 second run of a game of this quality would definitely not be a bad thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kgb12345
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2004 10:42 pm PT
Review:  When I first played this, it rocked my socks off. There was nothing like it before. Now, it's pretty 
 old seeing rip-offs like Dead to Rights. Max Payne is so much better than Matrix could ever be. 
 Besides the second one, no game gives you as much mind-blowing satisfaction and style to every 
 move. The only down side is the length. After beating it once, you only want to go back with cheats, 
 and run through it. There's not much else. Still, awesome.
  Gameplay-10
  Beyond Cool.
  Graphics-10
  At the time, nothing could hold a candle to it.
  Sound-8
  Great storybook narration. 
 Voicework is awesome too.
  Value-7
  Too short!
  Tilt-9
  It'll rock your socks off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonKyoto
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 21, 2004 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Introduction: Wow.. this has got to be one of the best games of all time, i swear. Max payne, the 
 story of a man with nothing to lose. Max Payne impressed damn near everybody who played it. The 
 game's impressive graphics, engine, and storyline has certainly ensured this game as one of the 
 best games made for PC.
  
  Gameplay: Max Payne, what a great name eh? The game is comprised of 2 main parts. The game itself, 
 and a narration mode that pops up in between levels and at intrical parts of the story. The narration 
 is done in comic book paneling, images and text laid out on the screen while Max himself does the 
 voice over of the text. This feature greatly improved the gameplay, putting you deep into the story. 
 Max, a cop, returns home one day to find his wife and child murdered. He begins a long quest to 
 find out who did it, leading him thru the city, past multiple crime lords, to the head of the largest 
 corperation in the city and its ties to drugs, lies and murder. The game also has a special "Bullet 
 Time" mode, which essentially slows down time, allowing Max to perform "Matrix" type manuvers, 
 dodging bullets and quickly killing the enimies before they have time to react. There is only ONE, 
 i repeat, ONE bad thing about this game. Its very short. I completed the entire game, and a nice 
 portion of the 2nd difficulty level in one day. The game itself proceeds at a good pace, but it 
 could have easily have been made twice as long without damaging the story.
  
  Story: As i mentioned, Max returns home from work one day to find his wife and baby murdered. Grief 
 stricken, he embarks on a quest to to find out who did it, and why. He moves thru the local bad 
 guys and drug dealers, killing most anyone who stands in his way. Eventually, he makes his way 
 to the head of Aesir Corperation, the largest company in the city, and goes after the head, who 
 was behind everything.
  
  Graphics and Sound: Graphics.... oh sweet mama, Graphics. Max Payne's graphics are outright awesome. 
 The people and movement are fairly realistic, as well as the city's detail and weaponry. The narration 
 comic-style looks very realistic, as if it had been drawn. You can tell how much work they put 
 into it. At the end when you near the top of Aesir building ( which is easily UBER tall ) , and 
 fall down to the ground ( invincibility cheat of course ) , you can walk around, on the ground, 
 thru the streets. Of course, the detail down there isnt best since you should never technically 
 BE there, but you can still walk the streets, its just amazing. As for the sound, again, sweet 
 MAMA. The sound is very realistic, down to the bullet shells hitting the ground and the tires screeching 
 down the street. Plus, that damn theme song, dun dun  its so 
 damned cool to hear that over and over.
  
  Replayability: Definately. Even tho its so very short, you will want to replay Max Payne over and 
 over, to find all of the easter eggs and just to basically enjoy it.
  
  Final Recommendation: All in all, i give Max Payne 9.5 out of 10. It would have been a perfect 
 10, but the fact that Remedy made it so short really hurts the game. All in all, its a great game 
 that everyone should play at least once. I dont theres anyone who would not love Max Payne. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rattlesnake_8
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 12, 2004 2:46 am PT
Review:  .. is a lot of fun, has an awesome story and really nice looking graphics. The levels are very detailed, 
 as well as everything in the game world. The game simply just looks amazing. The sound is also 
 very good, everything sounds realistic. The voice acting is ok, it's not as bad as a lot of other 
 games.
  
  Bullet Time was introduced into this game, slowing everything down so you can dodge bullets as 
 well as shoot your enemies easier. This feature looks really cool and was implemented into the 
 game very well. The end result makes for some very fun, and very amazing looking battles.
  
  The shoot outs you'll have throughout the game are quite stunning to watch, and very fun to 
 play through. If your looking for a pure action game, with a great story, and lots of cool looking 
 battles, as well as lots of bad guys to shoot.. Then this is definatly one game you should try! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asche
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 3, 2004 5:30 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best story-based action games I've ever played, and I've played it over and 
 over. It's gritty, atmospheric, and deliciously noir. Unlike many action games where story and 
 action never seem to work together, this game combines the two flawlessly, never sacrificing one 
 at the expense of the other. The graphic novel is also fantastic, the artwork is great, and it 
 holds together beautifully as a complete story when viewed in its entirety at the end of the game. 
 The bullet time feature is great without being gimicky. The graphics are also really nice, they 
 aren't revolutionary or anything but the game looks great and the graphics do their part to maintain 
 the atmosphere. The use of sound is also good, there is some good use of directional sound particularly 
 in the halucination sequences. The game play is great, challenging without being frustrating, the 
 interface is smooth and intuitive, and the story... ohh the story! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7sonic
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 27, 2004 5:41 pm PT
Review:  I got Max Payne as a birthday gift in 2003. When I first played it was amazing, but since my PC 
 wasn't so great, I stopped playing it. When I finally got my Gaming PC in 2004, I played it again. 
 Max Payne is truly a game experience that's worth playing.
  
  The game is about Max Payne, a cop who gets framed for murder. Now the mob and the police are after 
 him, and Max must clear his name and find the person who murdered his family.
  
  During the game Max explores the cold, snowy, city of New York during a bad blizzard. While exploring 
 the city, Max has to shoot his enemies who are all after him. Max even uses a cool feature called 
 Bullet-time, which slows down all the action, and of course helps him dodge bullets from different. 
 There's even some puzzle solving with Max Payne as well. The levels are huge and very interactive, 
 there's even a lot to explore. The levels are so big it's very easy to get lost in. This game is 
 a blast to play with the bullet-time effects and it's action packed gameplay.
  
  The graphics are amazing. They are very realistic, for example a police car actually looks like 
 an actual police car. The levels are very detailed too. From the city, to buildings, even to snow 
 effects. Sound is also outstanding. This game has great voice acting, realistic sound effects, 
 and a great musical soundtrack.
  
  Max Payne is a game to play that's filled with plenty of action. This is one game that's defiantly 
 worth playing. Be warned this is one game that's not meant for kids or any sensitive person due 
 to its violent gameplay and some parts of the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yurik
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 24, 2004 1:11 am PT
Review:  MAX PAYNE is a landmark game. But, then again, so is Black & White -- and that game sucks. However, 
 MP is an actual _game_ -- one oozing with style and exciting action, and backed by a solid and 
 well-told backstory. That's why it gets a 9.5.
  
  GAMEPLAY (10) . This is where the game really shines. You play as Max, a hardboiled cop framed for 
 murder, trying to avenge the deaths of your family. While the story is interesting (see below) , 
 the gameplay is what really sets this game apart. Of course, the most important thing is Bullet-Time, 
 an effect that lets you go into a slo-mo mode at will, where everyone's movements, including yours, 
 are slowed down -- except you can turn your body to aim and fire at a normal speed, giving you 
 quite an edge. Bullet-Time by itself is not too useful, since it runs out too quickly, but the 
 real key is Shoot-dodging, which you activate with the Right Moust Button while moving with your 
 strafe keys -- what this does is it sends Max flying through the air, IN BULLET-TIME, like Chow-Yun 
 Fat in a John Woo movie, during which time you can aim and fire at a normal speed. The effect of 
 seeing slo-mo explosions, bullets actually flying by (as they are accurately modeled by the engine) , 
 plaster and dust flying around you, as you dive-shoot dual Berettas or Ingrams, is ABSOLUTELY AWESOME. 
 This is the key to enjoying this game. But, it would be no fun if the people you fought were boring. 
 They're not; although their actual UI is not particularly smart, the game fakes intelligence very 
 well by intelligently scripting their actions. For example, the bad guys (of whom there are 100s) 
 will turn over a table and hide behind it, or lob grenades at exactly the right time, etc. -- however, 
 it's clear this isn't because their AI units are figuring this out, but because the game's script 
 tells them to do so when Max is at point X or Y. Nevertheless, the effect is very positive. In 
 fact, some of the battles are so well-orchestrated (just wait until the finale in a big, sterile 
 scryscraper) , you'll actually feel like you're in the Matrix or Hard-boiled. At other times, you'll 
 feel like you're just in a good shooter, which is good, too. 10.
  
  GRAPHICS (9) . The game looks great. The textures are as nice as is possible -- but not particularly 
 beautiful; this isn't a detriment, as the game is trying to be gritty and stylish, and succeeds 
 (seedy motels, a research lab, a night club, a warehouse, and an awesome skyscraper, and more) . 
 However, the best parts of the graphics come from the particle and explosion effects, which all 
 look amazing (pause the game when Max is firing sometime, and enjoy the view as the camera revolves 
 around the gunfire) . Empty shell casings fly by realistically, and are real objects, as they stay 
 on the ground afterwards. Bullet holes and destroyed furniture and corpses all stay the way they 
 should for the rest of the game. I can't quite give the graphics a 10 because the NPCs' facial 
 animations change in an unconvincing way... plus, Max has a really strange expression on his face 
 the entire game. The worst part is probably the way the NPCs move -- they simply hold their weapons 
 in their hands as if they were about to fire, and they turn their entire body in this position 
 when following you. It looks very strange, compared to Max's good animation. A positive point is 
 the graphical novel presentation of the story, which is well rendered (though it's clear the human 
 models used are some random friends of the developers -- actually, Max himself is apparently Sam 
 Lake, the screenwriter) .
  
  SOUND (9) . The sound is another strong point of the game. The weapons sound great, especially during 
 Bullet-Time, and the infrequent use of the music is very nice and atmospheric. Enemies can be heard 
 having humorous conversations (until you show up and blast 'em) , and at times the game even makes 
 fun of itself. Perhaps most imporantly, the voice acting, done 95% by the Max voice actor, is well 
 done. Max's voice fits the story, and the lines he says are classic film noir ("... cold, cavernous 
 depths of a grave ...", "dame," etc.) . It's all done to a very nice effect. Can't call it perfect, 
 but a 9 will do.
  
  VALUE (8) . I'd actually give this one an 7 on replay value, since it's a shooter that can be finished 
 in 15 hours without a problem. After that, you have several difficulty levels to go through -- 
 finishing the toughest one gives you access to the super-level, which is pretty hard (but you can 
 do it all in Bullet-Time!) . There's also New York Minute, which makes you race against a clock. 
 Nothing wrong with this stuff, but, honestly, there's only so much willingness to replay the scripted 
 action again and again. However, what gives this one an extra point is all the mods that are out 
 there, like the outstanding Kung Fu mod, which can turn the game into a completely different experience 
 (trust me) . That, itself, gives many more hours of enjoyment (and finishing the game at least twice 
 by itself is still fun, anyway) .
  
  TILT (10) . The gameplay alone makes this a must-own. But what makes me give this a tilt of 10 is 
 just the overall atmosphere of the game. It's a mature-themed, bloody story, and the graphics novel 
 and voiceovers treat it like one. It's very satisfying for that reason. Note that the PLOT itself 
 is not really that great (there's never any huge shocking revelation) , and a bit cliched, but the 
 way it's presented is top-notch. I much prefer an impressive telling of a reasonable story than 
 an amazing telling of a really convoluted jumbled mess of a story (Metal Gear Solid 2) .
  
  There you have it. 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Element_TAW
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 12, 2004 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne sets new standards for action games. Not only is it's gameplay absolutely terrific, it 
 is clear that a lot of time was put into the game. Features like Bullet time and the actual modeling 
 and movement of bullets are only some of the innovative features that make this PC game the best 
 you can play for so little. What's a game without a story? Most games include a half-thought out 
 story that quickly loses focus and is never mentioned again throughout the rest of the game. Max 
 Payne has a great story that is pivotal in all aspects of the game. This game is definately a must 
 have and since it only costs about 10 dollars at Wal*Mart now (I bought it when it first came out 
 for full price) you should get it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spencerlink
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 20, 2004 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Nothing is perfect, but this game represents cutting-edge concepts for its' time, and the weenies 
 who give it less than 9.0 are out of line, so I am out of line in the other direction to neutralize 
 them.
  
  Excellent graphics, the innovative 'Bullet Time', and a tongue-in-cheek film-noir script make this 
 stupendous!
  
  I am not usually a fan of shooter games, just because we US citizens kill too many of each other 
 every year anyway, so I think the theme is generally in bad taste. Canadians have 10 Million households 
 and 7 Million guns, but they kill each other at at surprisingly low rate compared to the US. I 
 don't blame shooter games (or Maryilyn Manson) for US shootings, as the press is wont to do, but 
 I just don't usually like the theme. 
  
  This game is somewhat different. It's a gritty detective story, and you incidentally have to shoot 
 your way through it. It's as much strategy as it is shooter, because you can easily run out of 
 resources if you don't plan ahead. Balancing your ammo and your available Bullet Time are critical 
 to moving ahead in the game, and you want to, because the story is interesting.
  
  This one set the stage, and I will soon be plowing into Max Payne 2. If you haven't done so, you 
 should try it for yourself. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
