-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Max Payne 2: The Fall of Max Payne
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/maxpayne2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 16, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.8, 70 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 7,572 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Rockstar Games
Developer: Remedy Ent.
Genre: Modern Shooter
Date:     Oct 14, 2003
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Max Payne 2 is just a remarkable production, and what it lacks in length or volume it more than 
 makes up for in quality and density. 

  "Short but sweet" is a good way to describe 2001's Max Payne, as well as its newly released sequel. 
 Actually, the main difference between Max Payne 2 and its predecessor involves more of the circumstances 
 under which the games arrived than anything existing in the games themselves. The original was 
 victim to multiple development delays and spent years in the making, but, despite being a relatively 
 brief experience, it was a thrilling, stylish, violent action game that was ultimately worth the 
 wait. The sequel, on the other hand, was announced just months ago and hit store shelves on exactly 
 the day it was supposed to. This new Max Payne, billed as "a film noir love story," was certainly 
 worth the wait too, though this time, the wait was brief. As long as you go into it without expecting 
 a dramatically different -- or longer -- gameplay experience than the original, Max Payne 2 won't disappoint. 
 On its own merits, it's a stunning shooter that's got a bit too much plot and is over too soon, 
 though it's still incredibly intense and, by all means, worth experiencing.  

          Max Payne 2 doesn't last long, but the outstanding story and gameplay it provides are still 
 well worthwhile.     

  Max Payne 2 is a direct sequel to the original and picks up after the events of that game. Max, 
 now a detective and wearier than ever of the world, once again has his hands full as he finds himself 
 hopelessly attached to the lovely Mona Sax, a murder suspect and part of a bigger plot that ties 
 in to Max's own dark past. There are tons of references and parallels to the original story. Fans 
 will undoubtedly be pleased by some of the nudging and winking, though someone starting off with 
 Max Payne 2 would probably feel rather left out, despite the presence of an optional cutscene that 
 summarizes what happened leading up to Max Payne 2. Still, this is a surprisingly complex narrative 
 for a game, irrespective of the genre.  

  The storyline unfolds in much the same fashion as the original. It uses some very slick, graphic 
 novel-style storyboards -- complete with melodramatic dialogue straight out of a pulp detective novel -- and 
 good voice-over to go with it. These graphic novel sequences are unmistakably similar to those 
 of the first game, though they are, in some cases, even more artistic this time around. Max Payne 
 2 certainly isn't lacking in its presentation. Even the game's special edition DVD-style packaging 
 is slick, and all of the game's between-level loading screens and graphic novel sequences are impressive-looking 
 and often very cool. The plot itself features a number of twists but is rather convoluted the first 
 go-round. Play through the game a second time (perhaps on the higher difficulty setting that's 
 unlocked after you finish it the first time) and you'll likely get a much clearer sense of what's 
 happening.  

          Mona Sax is Max Payne's love interest, and the two seem destined for each other.     

 
  There's no confusion when the bullets start flying: Max can point and shoot, and, were it not 
 for his unique ability to slow down time, he'd be a pretty boring character to play. In the first 
 game, Max's bullet time ability was used primarily while executing shootdodges. Max would launch 
 himself forward, sideways, or backward while blazing away at his enemies. Bullet time slowed Max 
 down -- same as the bad guys -- but he'd retain the ability to aim in real time, thus allowing him 
 to draw a bead on multiple enemies while in midjump. Bullet time is different now and, for better 
 or worse, the shootdodge has been de-emphasized as the technique of choice. It's still an option -- and 
 a good one. In fact, Max can now optionally stay prone, after landing from a shootdodge, for as 
 long as he continues to fire his selected weapon (till its clip runs out of ammo, anyway) . Recovery 
 from shootdodging is a little slower than before, but the main reason it's less essential than 
 it used to be is because now Max is so much more effective on his feet during bullet time.  

  Unlike the first game, Max does not slow to a crawl during bullet time. Now, as he kills his 
 enemies, his bullet time meter not only regenerates, but it turns from white to yellow. As this 
 happens, time moves even slower while Max moves even faster. After you've killed several enemies 
 in succession, and your meter is yellow, you'll be moving pretty much at full speed while in bullet 
 time. Your foes will be practically helpless to stop you. Bullet time was never intended to be 
 a realistic feature, though it was loosely justified as Max's heightened state of awareness, brought 
 on by the intensity of a life-and-death situation. This new bullet time can't be explained away 
 quite as easily, and it's much more akin to a superhero power. Or maybe it's the power of love? 
 In any case, this new bullet time makes Max Payne 2, to some extent, easier and less tactical than 
 the first game. Whereas the old Max Payne needed to shootdodge from cover to cover, playing it 
 safe, the new Max Payne's best tactic is to run straight at his enemies with bullet time toggled 
 on. This may seem like a counterintuitive approach for a man who's heavily outgunned, but it lends 
 itself to some pretty incredible close-quarters shootouts and gives Max Payne 2 a different feel 
 than its predecessor.     

  The souped-up bullet time of Max Payne 2 enables you to take on much larger groups of foes than 
 you could in the first game. The body count here is very high, particularly in some of the later 
 sequences which have Max taking on small armies by himself or, sometimes, with a helping hand or 
 two. One of the touted new features of Max Payne 2 is that Max can sometimes fight alongside other 
 characters. This works as expected. The supporting characters follow Max's lead and lend a helping 
 hand, though their assistance isn't all that valuable. Your options in working with these characters 
 are limited to telling them to stay put or to follow you, which is fine, since having to issue 
 complex orders to a squad would just slow things down in a game like Max Payne 2.  

          He may look like a man who's lost his fighting spirit, but Max Payne is actually stronger 
 in his new game than he was in the first.     

  Along with the changes to bullet time and the presence of the occasional friendly character, the 
 third main difference in the gameplay of Max Payne 2 versus its predecessor is in the new game's 
 use of physics. The Havok physics engine was put to noticeable, extensive use in this game, as 
 objects from human bodies to cardboard boxes to tires to paint cans all have fairly realistic mass 
 and can be flung and bounced around forcefully -- even when struck by a double-barreled shotgun blast. 
 Thanks to rag doll physics (which have been used in other action games, like the Hitman series 
 and Rainbow Six 3) , bad guys in Max Payne 2 routinely get sent flying -- like the lifeless heaps 
 that they are -- when shot by any high-caliber weapon or caught in an explosion.  

  Sometimes the results of this look awkward, but much more often, the results are dynamic and impressive -- especially 
 when seen in slow motion. Many of Max Payne 2's shootouts take place in seemingly mundane locations, 
 like warehouses, but when you consider that most every object lining the shelves -- and even the 
 shelves themselves -- can be blown around or apart during a firefight, you'll begin to realize that 
 these settings are actually ideal for a game that's all about shooting. Just as with the rag doll 
 physics for the characters, the physics for the game's objects aren't quite perfect. You can bump 
 a box around by running into it, or you can shoot it and send it flying. However, the box itself 
 won't break apart or anything. Some other aspects of Max Payne 2, such as its relatively frequent 
 cutscenes that use the game's 3D engine, can also seem a bit awkward. That's mainly because most 
 of the game's visuals are so incredibly convincing, the few unconvincing portions tend to stick 
 out.  

          The graphic novel-style cutscenes look better than ever in Max Payne 2.     

  Max's 
 arsenal of weapons hasn't changed much from the first game. He largely uses the same types of pistols, 
 submachine guns, assault rifles, and shotguns that he used extensively in the past. The main addition 
 here is the MP5 submachine gun, a mainstay in any shooter with real-world weapons. An AK-47 and 
 a Dragunov sniper rifle are also available, but, by and large, the weapons in Max Payne 2 are just 
 what you'd expect if you played the first game. Max now has the ability to use any of his weapons 
 as a bludgeon, though this is a throwaway feature that's useless and lousy-looking. This is too 
 bad, since Max seems like a guy who'd be more than willing to use the butt of his gun if some scumbag 
 wasn't worth the lead. He's still got access to grenades and Molotov cocktails, and one nice change 
 from the first Max Payne is that he can have these equipped at the same time as his primary weapon. 
 Much like in Halo, a secondary fire key lets you chuck a bomb at the bad guys even when you're 
 firing away. The flame and explosion effects are truly spectacular as well.  

  As in the first Max Payne, the sequel features a self-adjusting difficulty level, which tweaks 
 the enemy AI as well as the quantity of life-restoring painkillers you'll find in a level. Enemies 
 are pretty smart, in general. They use cover and mostly behave in a plausible manner, for guys 
 who are trying to shoot you to death. In a nice touch, some of them call you a coward if you run 
 for cover, and they'll toss a grenade your way to keep you moving. If you die a lot, you'll run 
 across more pills to keep you alive, and your enemies might be a little slower on the draw. This 
 works well, insofar as no part of Max Payne 2 is liable to have you stuck for very long. As in 
 the first game, the sequel features a few sequences that take place in Max's mind, as well as in 
 some other surprising locations. Many of these sequences, however, are analogous to those found 
 in the original. For instance, there are a few parts that require some careful maneuvering, lest 
 you plummet to your death. While these tightrope acts really aren't the best parts of Max Payne 
 2, they do break up the pacing a little and aren't very hard.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (281 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: rohitmitra5752
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2009 8:44 am PT
Review:  All the cult characters are back. Max, Mona, Vinni, Vlad are all back to another Payne flick. This 
 game has got it all - Revenge, Double Crossing, Conspiracy.
  
  1. Gameplay - The gameplay hasn't changed much since we left Max on the rooftop in Max Payne. It 
 has still got the same layout as we had in the previous game.
  
  2. Graphics - This is where Max Payne 2 scores big time over the previous game. We've now got a 
 Max who can at least change his expressions unlike the previous Max who seemed to be always happy. 
 Finer and smoother textures make up a marvelous feel for the dark atmosphere of the game.
  
  3. Sound - Max Payne is a cult game not only for it's gameplay but also for it's music. The 
 title track doesn't change. But I can only thank the developers for this, as I feel that no other 
 music would have suited Max Payne the way the title track.
  
  4. Story - I can only say this much - "Max Payne had a more appealing story than Max Payne 2". 
 But again it is not exactly that Max Payne 2 has a lame story. It's story is good enough for me 
 to play it again.
  
  Finally said, Max Payne 2 is simply one of those games that you need to get for a good experience. 
 Also if you have Max Payne, then it will be like adding a diamond onto a platinum ring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tactica1supris3
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2009 10:31 am PT
Review:  Max Payne 2: The Fall of Max Payne is more than the sum of its parts. The story is told in graphic 
 novel fashion with the inclusion of cut scenes and playable dream sequences throughout. The gun 
 play is just way too much fun and only enhanced by "bullet time" mechanics. Once you get a taste 
 of the experience you're likely to play the game in its entirety if not finish it in just a few 
 sit-downs. 
  
  The length of the single-player campaign is one of the game's only drawbacks. With a plot as mysterious 
 and filled to the brim with twist and surprises as The Fall of Max Payne you go in expecting not 
 to come out anytime soon. Throughout the majority of the game players will be seeing everything 
 through the eyes of Payne. As in the first Max Payne he will be narrating. The narration is definitely 
 a strong point this time around as well. It is on point in its timing and very helpful by coming 
 in to drop hints where you may find yourself stuck or at a loss of where to go next. That said 
 the game is very linear. There isn't much free roaming or exploring to do in Max Payne like in 
 some of Rockstar's other titles. You're confined to warehouses, hospitals, apartment buildings, 
 and a couple of New York streets and back alleys. The plot doesn't leave much room for players 
 to have anything else to do anyway. Some people disguised as janitorial company "The Cleaners" 
 and a mafia crime family seemed to have put a hit out on Payne and the rest of the story unravels 
 as you try to get to the bottom of who is trying to kill you and why. 
  
  Prepare yourself for gun fight after gun fight and plenty of bloodshed. It's almost a wonder how 
 a game with such depth could produce such an amount of seemingly mindless violence. Once you get 
 past the prologue and into the game you start off with Max's standard 9mm pistol, but during your 
 run ins with the 'Cleaners' and mob henchmen there's plenty of grenades, Malatovs, hand guns, sub-machine 
 guns, and shot guns to get your hands dirty. On top of this array of weaponry in Max Payne 2 there 
 is still the "bullet time" mechanics that debuted in the first title. Players can manually trigger 
 bullet time in which your enemies and world around you slows down with time, while your guns are 
 given a slight advantage by being able to out gun your enemies. It comes to great use when you 
 are up against multiple enemies with assault rifles or shotguns, however, players can only use 
 this to their advantage for a limited amount of time, marked by a meter the shape of a bullet. 
 Another way to trigger slow motion is by diving out of the way of bullets which is literally mapped 
 to your controls as "Dodge Bullet". Unlike bullet time everything is equally slowed down and the 
 purpose of this mechanic is, again, to dodge enemy fire. Note you will not be playing the entire 
 game in slow motion. As amazingly fun and cinematic it is to trigger these features you won't be 
 coaxed into abusing them. 
  
  What really gives the game play character are the subsequent dream sequences that may come after 
 a short cut scene. Max Payne is a very dark character and very much haunted by his demons in his 
 sleep or state of unconsciousness. The dream sequences usually involve maze like hallways, illusions 
 of other characters, random audible, and an unusual distortion of the camera. 
  
  When it comes to the graphical presentation Max Payne 2 it totally trumps the competition. It's 
 also impressive that you can interact with most of the environment, adding depth to the world you're 
 in. The game's graphics improve ten fold from those of the first Max Payne. The guns, the animations, 
 and the character models are so much more realistic you might not want to go back and play the 
 first once you've picked up this one. The lip synchronization, the gun detail, and other minor 
 details stand out as well. It feels like the developers wanted badly for the players to feel completely 
 immersed in the experience and they achieved that goal with great success. 
  
  There isn't much to the game's soundtrack, but it's adequate. It sets the atmosphere and contributes 
 to the darkness well. The sound effects are pretty much on point and at this stage in video game 
 shouldn't really be a problem. In fact, it would be a problem if the sound distracted a player 
 from actually playing. 
  
  Max Payne 2 is a solid packaged video game and as a sequel does what the first game could, couldn't, 
 and then some. What it lacks in length is certainly made up for in sheer quality and density. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: angelkadaj
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 5:13 am PT
Review:  Max Payne 2 is one hell of a game. I agree with the others that the game is just too short, but 
 that doesn't mean that you shouldn't buy this third person shooter game. This game is itself divided 
 in 3 parts, and many, many chapters. The missions are pretty easy (if you play it on harder mode 
 it won't be that easy) . And there are 2-3 annoying ones, like the one when you have to save your 
 friend.
  
  The character, Max Payne has changed. He is not as he was in the previous game, but still he is 
 kinda charming. You start the game in a hospital, and you need to find a way out. There are many 
 sequences of the main character's memories about Mona Sax, and of course Max will meet her in the 
 game. The best about it is that you'll be able to play as Mona later in the game.
  The story is very interesting. You get out of hospital, you save Vladimir, you realize that Vlad 
 is not a saint, Mona falls in love with you. You'll have to play it if you want to know everything 
 'bout it.
  I know that the game is old, but it is still looking great. The gameplay is good at least for 
 me. The sound hmmm I don't remember if I heard any songs- except in the end, the one with the 
 credits, and of course the great theme that you hear every time you start the game- but if you 
 count the ones from the weapons, it's ok. The voice actors did a great job.
  
  I don't know what more should I say. I played Max Payne 2 a long time ago, and I guess I'll do 
 it again. The original one was good as well, and I think a bit harder. I was too young when I played 
 the first one, and didn't understand it so good. I need to play the first one as well to say which 
 one is better.
  
  I really hope that there will be a third Max Payne game, and that it will be good as this one was.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryu_San
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  Sometimes you have to wonder: why a sequel? "Max Payne" was, in the limited realm of videogame 
 art, probably one of the best works ever to be released; so, why a sequel? Was there anything left 
 to be said? About Max, I mean? His love was dead, his past no longer a mystery and his desire for 
 vengeance was fulfilled. So I have to admit, there seemed to be no reason to delve into Max Payne's 
 sad, morbid and twisted mind again or was there?
  "The past is a gaping hole. You try to run from it, but the more you run, the deeper it grows behind 
 you, its edges yawning at your heels. Your only chance is to turn around and face it. But it's 
 like looking down into the grave of your love, or kissing the mouth of a gun, a bullet trembling 
 in its dark nest, ready to blow your head off."
  
  "Max Payne 2" might seem like an attempt to cash in from the original's success: it took less than 
 two years to design, graphically it's very similar, it starts with exactly the same tone and plot 
 devices as its predecessor, the plot opens holes in the first one's narrative, that quite frankly, 
 just weren't there and a certain character is mysteriously revived during the first screens of 
 the game. So, at a glance, "Max Payne 2" could seem like an afterthought of the original. But appearances 
 are misleading
  
  "What the **** is wrong with you, Max? Why don't you just die? You hate life, you're miserable 
 all the time, afraid to enjoy yourself even a little! Face it, you might as well be dead already. 
 Do yourself a favor, give up! "
  
  The first thing that pops up is that Max Payne doesn't look like Max Payne. His character model 
 is different. At first, this seems strange, this eerie, awkward transition from a Hawaiian shirt 
 youngster with quirky smile and feel free attitude, to this middle-aged man with disillusioned, 
 depressed, deep caved eyes that look as they've seen all the horrors the world has to offer. But 
 if you ponder, you will understand that this is the way Max Payne was meant to look like: a torn, 
 spiritually crippled "noir" detective. This IS Max Payne. The change goes as far as revamping all 
 the character models from the first game (in vignettes and in game-models) , making them all feel 
 more in key with the tone and style of the game. Series' lead designer, Petri Jrvilehto, explained 
 why this change occurred: during the first game, their budget didn't allow the designers to hire 
 real actors for use in character models (only voice acting) , and so they had to base characters 
 on members of the creative team. Voices on the other hand, still sound the same, which is good, 
 because they were already well acted in the first game.
  
  "Death is inevitable. Our fear of it makes us play safe, blocks out emotion. It's a losing game. 
 Without passion you are already dead."
  
  The subtle change of actors feels "key" in the grand scheme of things behind "Max Payne 2", as 
 the plot tries to go even deeper in terms of exploring its characters' beliefs, motivations and 
 above all, their feelings. This is a departure from the first game, since its story delved more 
 on the actions and consequences of Max Payne's obsessive vendetta, than on his actual inner demons. 
 Now, that's upside down, and the objective is focusing on Max Payne's love, regret, and hope of 
 atonement for his dark past. The story (once again written by Sami Jrvi, series' script and screenplay 
 writer) runs deeper in its meanings and concoctions, its drama is truly heartfelt (to the point 
 of a good drama film) , even if in actual plot terms, nothing very important really happens during 
 the game. Add a remixed version of the first game's poignant soundtrack, some beautifully crafted 
 comic-book style vignettes, the best dialog you've ever seen in a videogame, and you have a narrative 
 that will chill your spine, challenge your brain and make your soul cry. That's how good "Max Payne 
 2" story is.
  
  "Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present Max Payne, New York's finest, with the biggest mobster 
 body count ever. Dearest guests, prepare to die! Max! I'd love to come and welcome you, but I'm 
 busy dodging bullets and hiding under a desk at the moment!"
  
  Though the actual gameplay is more or less the same as in the first game, it was subtly improved, 
 with a small number of details that empower the already brilliant shooting mechanics. Firstly, 
 the game is smaller, which means it's juicier and more cohesive, leaving anything that could be 
 defined as "filler" out. Levels are better designed this time around, and resonate with character's 
 feelings and states of mind, making them not only important in terms of gameplay, but also in terms 
 of setting up the ambiance of the story. This was also true for the first game, but it's better 
 explored this time around; some levels are downright masterpieces of level and art design. Even 
 the apparently unimportant TV shows (the parody to Shakespeare's comedy "Much ado about nothing" 
 named "Lords and Ladies", the David Lynch homage "Address Unknown" and the spoof of blaxpoitation 
 masterpiece "Shaft" - "Dick Justice") that can be viewed in the scenarios' television sets are 
 incredibly well written and add layers of interpretation to characters and situations. In strict 
 terms of gameplay, besides upholding the standard of the first game's pacing, the designers use 
 pre-scripted events and scenarios that change the flow of the game: like a level in which you play 
 with someone else other than Max Payne that has to protect him, or a boss fight in where you actually 
 have to think on how to kill your adversary. These small additions might seem irrelevant, but they 
 actually make "Max Payne 2" be, at least, as interesting in terms of gameplay as its predecessor.
 
  
  As expected not everything is perfect (though it is nearly so) . As mentioned before, the actual 
 plot doesn't really go anywhere, since the ending of "Max Payne" left no avenues for a sequel. 
 The visual aspect of the game doesn't show much improving, and would've benefited from the use 
 of better lighting technology (that was already available at the time of "Max Payne 2") , that might've 
 made the in-game graphics resemble the expected "chiaroscuro" aesthetic. Minor flaws apart, the 
 game is simply astonishing and improves on every small aspect of its prequel, even if it feels 
 much more of an update on the original than an actual sequel. "Max Payne 2" is the coming of age 
 of a concept, the culmination of its authors' artistry in story-telling, game and audiovisual design. 
 If "Max Payne" was Art, then "Max Payne 2" is fine Art. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emilyek_1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  The short version of Max Payne 2's history is this: Critics liked it, no one bought it.
  
  The reason? The game had a brain. The consolers the game was marketed towards, however, did not.
 
  
  Max Payne II is psuedo-film noir and self-conscious and brimming with so-bad-it's-good dialogue. 
 The gameplay is solid and fun, if somewhat limited; the levels are usually small but visually and 
 viscerally satisfying; the story is dark and corny but immensely entertaining; the sound, especially 
 the classical-minimalist soundtrack, is wonderful.
  
  It really has zero bugs or glitches. It runs incredibly cleanly, and it still looks great after 
 the several years that have passed since it was released.
  
  Despite its arguably limited scope, Max Payne 2 is an all-around AAA title.
  
  Laura Croft? 
 Alyx Vance? Pshaw. Give me Mona Sax and her two deagles any day of the week.
  
  And I'll take the Funhouse over Crysis' GPU-crippling jungles any other day.
  
  If, for some 
 reason, you never played this one, do yourself a favor and drop ten bucks on it at Wal-Mart.
  
  You and your brain won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antipunt1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 2:03 am PT
Review:  There's very little to be said about Max Payne 2, because essentially, it's what people say it 
 is. It's a very good third person shooter with an intriguing story and cool air.
  
  Max Payne is an interesting character. I'd say, probably, we all like him. This game follows a 
 pretty cool story with decent action/shooting sequences. Like typical Max Payne, the environments 
 are dynamic and seem to react to what you do.... which is by the way, a lot of fun
  
  Throughout the game, I felt like it was polished and solid. Need anything more? I mean this is 
 your typical, above-average third person shooter that does practically everything right. We even 
 have the unique bullet-time system and using painkillers as health. Typical/atypical max payne. 
 I guess in a way, nothing particularly epic is done here. We don't have 'best character of the 
 year' or 'best story of the year' or anything along those lines. But still at the end: it's what 
 its hyped up to be. A good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 64316431
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 6:07 am PT
Review:  This is it.
  The most intense third-person shooter game you can get.
  Those who who were hibernating: well, max payne is a tps with amazing i repeat AMAZING gameplay. 
 Slow Motion. Got it? Good
  Gameplay 10/10
  What do you expect? this is max payne. The slow motion diving, or bullet dodging as the game calls 
 it, is implemented wonderfully. The bullet time is as always- intense an a whole lotta fun.
  Graphics 9/10 (ive included the ragdoll physics in this}
  The facial expressions are amazing 
 & so are the physics. If you shoot someone down, they fall back realistically.
  Max's face has changed, but as long as its looking this good, no complains.
  Sound 9/10
  Awesome 
 sound. the trademark music, the voice-overs, guns, are all wonderful. Take my advice, play this 
 with headphones
  Gameplay 10/10
  Graphics 9/10
  Sound 9/10
  Final: One HELL of a ride. And a 9.5 too.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ayasdutta
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 4:39 pm PT
Review:  This is one of my first games and till date after playing around some 80+ games, i still haven't 
 found a game better than this one. The concept of bullet time is great and the story also gets 
 to you. The game play is standard third person shooter, but bullet time makes it possible to kill 
 myriads of enemies without taking any serious damage. the comic style cut scenes between mission 
 are interesting and i also like the voice acting especially that of Max Payne.
  
  However, there are a few glitches like the missions in which you roam around in Max's dreams, Although 
 they serve to extend the story but still they are boring especially if u get lost.
  
  Leaving this minor thing the game looks and plays great and you are just left hungry for more at 
 the end. the Dean man walking mode is fun to play n gives an option for returning to the game (which 
 is worth it) .
  
  A definite buy !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocking_anshuk
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 17, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  This is one of my first games and till date after playing around some 80+ games, i still haven't 
 found a game better than this one. The concept of bullet time is great and the story also gets 
 to you. The game play is standard third person shooter, but bullet time makes it possible to kill 
 myriads of enemies without taking any serious damage. the comic style cut scenes between mission 
 are interesting and i also like the voice acting especially that of Max Payne.
  
  However, there are a few glitches like the missions in which you roam around in Max's dreams, Although 
 they serve to extend the story but still they are boring especially if u get lost.
  
  Leaving this minor thing the game looks and plays great and you are just left hungry for more at 
 the end. the Dean man walking mode is fun to play n gives an option for returning to the game (which 
 is worth it) .
  
  A definite buy !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooyas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 10:53 pm PT
Review:  Just like the old Max Payne, Max Payne 2: The Fall of Max Payne is a modern shooting game with 
 novel fighting techniques. Max Payne is a police officer who answered a police call which led him 
 to a series of mysteries. In finding the criminals, he understood what happened to his family before. 
 This becomes the stimuli to go on and kill the bad guys.
  
  Just like other shooting games, you kill enemies, take their weapons and ammo, heal yourself, and 
 walk through doors to the next levels. The difference is that you experience a real scenario. This 
 scenario is Max Payne's life. You are with him everywhere even in his dreams. The reality of the 
 actions attracts you to dig into the game and be addicted. There are lots of firearms which you 
 can have to take out the enemies. 
  
  Enemies AI is acceptable. In some case they do some stupid things which is nothing compared to 
 the great game experience you will have. The graphics, the scenario and lots of other attractive 
 things will make you to play the game from the beginning to the end without a blink of eyes! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  after i finished max payne 1 i was so happy beacuse this game was awesome!! and i was so ready 
 for another game and than MAX PAYNE 2.. so i started playing this game and i didnt expect for this.. 
 i mean.. WTF?
  lets start over:
  
  graphics: ok so that was really good.. the graphic of the game was way way better than the first 
 game and i liked it... also good visual effects (of slow mo and shooting and even blood)
  
  sounds: also better sounds effects than the first game and good voice acting like the first one...
 
  
  gameplay: ok... so here is the problem.. max payne 2 was'nt so fun to play like the first one.. 
 why do you ask? ok so first the slow-mo isnt that slow.. i mean that in the First max payne the 
 slow-mo was great and real slow-mo And in PAYNE 2 it was not so good you could still take some 
 shots and when you had some levels you play as MONA SAX not fun at all..
  
  story: another problem.. max payne 1 had a realy good story and 2 i didnt understand at all.. also 
 booring story (from what i understand)
  
  max payne 2 is good... realy good even but not like the first one anyway the game is very good 
 and worth playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thenewau25
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 28, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  First of all id like to say that the fact that the game requires you to go up an moving elevator 
 box like stairs when the boss of the game is shooting you with a damn powerful weappon and kill 
 you right away (why because thats who the ai plays and the m4 is a weapon that enmies always move 
 and hit you and all 30 bullets will hit you but 5 are enough to kill your character) so just like 
 the rest of the enmies i shoot him and he dies (thats how you survive in this game unload ammo 
 before they do the same to you) NO instead he just stand there and not even feel the hits you cause 
 to him AND THE GAME REQUIRES THAT YOU MOVE STRAIGHT AT HIM!!! HOW about some less crap here, thanks 
 also game is difficult but the only diffirence between dificilties is saves available and ammo 
 you spent on enemys haid also its so short that you might wannat play it 3 times in a row to feel 
 ok!
  I dont really get it why a 9 the graphics back then probably the rest? well the story aint much 
 aint it leaves after 6 hours thats 5 without the videos and makes you thirst for more shooting 
 and levels, Now max payne doesnt autosave so you better save all the time or you start all over, The 
 game plays like every bad 3rd person shooter but it has the slo mo and the stunt abilities now 
 i find totally idiotic the way the character got to jump and stupid you stunt shoot fall down and 
 die while the enemies shoot you trying to get up the slo mo is not slow its fast so it doesnt help 
 much, seriously now what goof is slow mo if you cant hit a moving enemy with a sniper rilfe in 
 slo mo? mainly the combat plays like cap the crosshair and aiming is stupid and the bullets dont 
 go where you aim but randomly spread around also the close quarters shotgun needs 2 or 3 even 3 
 shots to kill someone yes ITS CRAP so dont you shotgun in close quarters because it SUCKS continuing 
 on the best weapons are the assult rilfes for 3 reasons apart form a sniping sequence you wont 
 use the sniper 2 there are no mchineguns or grenade lauchers 3 because all weapons SUCK in acuuaray 
 all autos are better dont hope for a headshot in this game! also in the level that yo see the abd 
 guys playing piano i cahllenge you to prove me wrong just shoot to the head the one who is standing 
 and you will hit the window glass instead, the combat works like this they see you or the apppear 
 and they start shooting never stop and unload their weapons on you the ak takes 3 shots to kill 
 someone so i got toa say that if someone pops out and shoot you you will die in 1.2 second so they 
 shoot you and you take a very high amount of damage , WHICH IS STUPID AND CRAP becasue, i enter 
 a room and i shoot someone 1 2 times with the shotgun then the outher guy while am taking severe 
 fire by all the outher and i keep shooting 3 4 5 one dead 6 second dead... NO 7 yeah now he is 
 dead and nothing is more satyisfing than to figure out that the first enemy you started shooting 
 after 2 shotgun shots all very clos is till alive and you spend 7 shotgun shells to kill 3 people 
 BUT one is alive and he BLOWS THE CRAP OUT OF YOU restart the level now.... or other times i try 
 to gifure where to go next and a door open or enemies start shooting from hell if i know where 
 and i end up dead and frustrated WTF just happen right about now? trying to figure where to go 
 a door opens behind you and bang you are dead that simple that fast DUH i only figure out that 
 i got shoted now from where.... or the grenade throwing ai that often blow their selfs of or the 
 fast that they shoot formr behind the msot unbelievable places but when i try it seems that my 
 weapon and crosshair are not very aligned! I even opened a door and throw a grenade no luck but 
 the enemy followed me and i hide inside the closet (actually it was an open door small room) but 
 thhis guy entered the room like he knew i was there or getting out of a van in one level th ai 
 knows where you are and shoots youby stucking bullets in you with auto aim and hit they hit everything 
 even miles away witch we be better if there were wide levels so i can dodge a bullet of two like 
 the tutorial in max payne also the game shows the physics engine and ragdoll like a tech demo ! 
 there are some levels that aeveything is blowing up and requires you to survive but it jsut doesnt 
 work right, mainly levels are borring the weapons balamcement is the worst eg a shotgun 2 3 hits 
 an ak 47 3 DUH ARE THEY NUTS? so mainly if you an enemy with a ak 47 or m4 you are already dead 
 and painkiller heall one hit each so after a firefifgt you go t to use 6 painkillers am i gona 
 have to find that many also ai is crap imagine that ai doesnt follows a flsfhing idicator THIS 
 IS WHERE THE PLAYER IS!!! so the ai goes thee and then the auto aim which ai doesnt control is 
 locked on you by defeault and shooting is auto so mainly it doesnt do anything you and ai meet 
 then you have already taken damgae a lot of damage, why all that damage? why i am talking about 
 alot like you play it in mega hard, by the way where are the difficulty settings?
  why all that hate to the player? also the slow mo is fast not like fear and it sucks since id doesnt 
 help at all, near the ending the stupid game requires you to fet to a point by using a broken buggy 
 elevating transpoter while the game's ending big bad boss is shooting at you and kill you in 1 
 second RIDIUCILUS AND GARBAGE LET ME PLAY DAMN IT so the game is unplayable idiotic riddiculus 
 and very linear and short with zero replaying value only for max payne fans a 6! why to buy a game 
 that you beat in 6 hours and never play again or should i say that the stupid gameplay design doesnt 
 even allow you to play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EstSidShotCallr
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2008 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne 2 is the sequel too 2001's Max Payne which delivered fantastic Hong Kong stylized action 
 including a terrific story from start too finish. I'm very glad too say that Max Payne 2 is in 
 the same league as the first with enhanced graphics and a few minor tweaks to the gameplay.
  
  Story - Max Payne 2's story is one of its best aspects. It starts a few years after the first 
 Max Payne with Max's name being cleared for murder charges in the last game. Now Max is back on 
 the NYPD (He was in the DEA) and has now found himself in a bigger bag of lies moral dielemmas 
 and corruption. I don't wanna go to into the story but lets just say that its one of the best stories 
 that I've heard in years. While it may be a little heavy handed and may take you more then one 
 finish to fully understand it, its still a great story worth hearing more then once.
  
  Graphics - Max Payne 2 has had a huge makeover in the graphics department sporting a new physics 
 and graphics engine, character models and some facial animations. It's also worth pointing out 
 that the rag doll physics engine is an awesome addition to the game. When you shoot some with an 
 assualt rifle and see them go flying across the room, it really is a sight to behold. The folks 
 at remedy have truly gone out of their way to create a great looking game
  
  Gameplay - Most of the game play aspects are the same as the first, you shoot with the right trigger 
 and move with the left analog stick and look around with the right stick, and slowing down time 
 is at the push of a button. The minor tweak in the game is that when you slow down time its not 
 quite like the first game. In the first game when you slowed down time, you moved the same speed 
 as your enemies but can still aim in real time, but now you can move and aim in real time and as 
 you kill more enemies your movement speeds up a lot. Its a tweak that makes the game less tactical 
 then the first one but its still alot of fun to use.
  
  Sound - The games sound effects are well done with guns having a good loud bang when you fire them 
 and the voice acting, while a bit cheesy, is great across the board. There really isn't much music 
 in the game but the main title theme is beautifully haunting and whatever else is great as well.
 
  
  As Greg Kasavin said, short but sweet would definitly describe Max Payne 2, what it doesn't have 
 in length, it surely makes up in its fun gameplay and excellent story and its sure too keep you 
 coming back 2 maybe 3 times more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bgdiner
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne, the original, was great on the story side and a little awkward on the gameplay side. 
 The animations and AI were okay, but the graphics were a little out of date. Now, with Max Payne 
 2, this has been resolved. 
  
  Story- Max Payne 2 is about Max Payne (duh) as he discovers Mona Sax, his former lover ( her? blah!) 
 and the police want him to confess and she wants him to keep it quiet. Oh yeah, his family is dead, 
 and he wants to know why she got killed. Whatever. Its been a while, but I think Vlad turns out 
 to be a traitor, right? 
  
  Gameplay- Great. Slow-mo, hard-boiled-esque dives really make this game great. And the fact that 
 there is no aiming system really makes it shine, cause auto-aim usually sucks. ANyway, its really 
 funny how you can just dive right into some guys face and shoot like 18 bullets at him and watch 
 him fall into the ground. Great.
  
  Sound- Meh. The guns sound mildly realastic, but i noticed some of the enemies have the same voice. 
 What ever.
  
  Graphics- Alright in the prerendered cutscenes, but not much else. Everything else is usually only 
 one or two textures even on the PC.
  
  You get to play as Mona Sax, too
  
  Score 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killip
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 24, 2008 3:01 am PT
Review:  I've been in bed ill the last couple of day (sob :' ( lol) so i decided to install max payne 2 again. 
 It was one of my fave games of 2003, and is to date still on my top 10 games of all time. Its been 
 5 years since it was released, and its fair to say this game just hasn't lost anything. Even graphics 
 are still awesome. For those who haven't played Max Payne, you play as the anti-hero cop Max Payne. 
 Who goes home to find his wife and baby murdered. Its from there that set out on a gripping story 
 with twists and turns, killing alot of people. It had an amazingly gritty atmosphere, and the gameplay 
 and graphics where something never seen before. Right now that MP is out the way, lets move onto 
 MP2. Its set a few years after MP, you are back in the N. Y. P. D and get a call to go to a warehouse 
 where gun shots are heard. Its from here where everything kicks off.
  
  Graphics: Compared to MP it beats it on everything. Compare it with todays games and it still manages 
 to hold its own. Plus loading in bullet time looks is a belta. The comic style cut-scenes also 
 look as gritty as ever, and the overall fell for the game is just as strong as it was in the first 
 MP.
  
  Sound: All the old characters voices are back (the ones who managed to survived anyway lol) . Music 
 score is amazing. Its one of them ones that sends the hair on the back of your neck on end. The 
 Script and voice acting in MP were something else and nothing has changed this time round either. 
 Truly special.
  
  Gameplay: Not alot has changed this time round only rag doll physics is in it (one of the first 
 games to do it) and bullet time looks alot prettier. They also got rid of the niggles that were 
 in the first MP. Make the sequal near perfect.
  
  **** box: The only thing i could see wrong with this game is that its shorter than the last MP 
 and it is easier.
  
  Overall: I heard the sales on MP2 weren't good. Which is shocking! If you have never played MP 
 i urge you to play the first then this one. MP2 manages to clean up then little niggles that were 
 in the first game and create a game with a beautifully well crafted story, with all the atmosphere 
 and gameplay to boot. If you like action games or a game with a gripping story, get it bought! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhilosophiCon
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 11, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  The Good - Decent graphics, great gameplay, immersive story, addictive
  
  The Bad - Not so great voice acting (they were trying too hard) , too short, lack of autosave during 
 levels
  
  This game had me sitting on the edge of my computer seat until the very last cinematic.
  When 
 I started out this game, I had watched a lot of videos for it online.
  I kept on thinking to myself "They're using the bullet-time waaay too much." But as soon as I got 
 into the game, I found myself doing the same thing.
  The bullet-time adds a lot to this game. The action and gameplay wouldn't be so amazing without 
 it.
  
  As I played through, I got to know the characters. The cinematics were shown in a graphic novel-like 
 format, which I loved.
  I found myself able to take out a small army of men with just myself, 2 pistols, and bullet-time.
 
  Even using the bullet-time gives you a huge sense of accomplishment in this game. 
  I think that the aiming and shooting without bullet-time is a bit too difficult, so using bullet-time 
 really helps in that sense, and it makes the game just much better.
  
  I found myself saving very often. The lack of an autosave feature throughout the levels forced 
 me to constantly wonder "Should I save here? Did I accomplish enough to necessitate a save?" And 
 this really tended to take away from the gameplay a bit at times.
  
  Not only that, but I found myself saving sometimes at unfortunate times, and whenever I resumed 
 the game after dying, I'd get killed.
  Then I'd start again, and get killed.
  With situations like this, it sometimes took me up to 20 minutes to find a way to avoid death.
 
  Of course, this is my fault, not the games, but it shouldn't be so easy to do.
  
  Anyway, without playing the first, I still really enjoyed this game.
  I read up on the story 
 a bit, so I understood what was going on.
  
  Something I enjoyed in this game is how it sometimes made me play as the woman antagonist, Mona.
 
  I liked getting to snipe with her, although I did find myself missing the bullet-time close-quarter 
 combat at times.
  
  All-around, this game is a must-play, and it's going cheap.
  Definitely go pick up a copy, and play through it.
  It only took me 2 days to play through, but 
 I enjoyed every second of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jakanadin
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne 2, I can vouch, to be one of THE GREATEST games I have ever played. It is in my personal 
 top 25 list, which can be found at a later date with in-depth reviews (in the works, I will try 
 to keep it updated) There are so many Pro's to this game.
  
  Pro's: Fun abilities such as bullet time and dodge rolling, multiple guns ranging from the classic 
 pistol, to the infamous Striker, awesome plot with a great ending, almost had me to tears. Kept 
 me wanting more and more
  
  Con's: I personally, find almost nothing wrong with this game, the only thing is that there isn't 
 a Max Payne 3 in the works to my knowledge
  
  Max Payne starts off with you being in a flashback and sets off from there until you snap back 
 to reality later on in the game. The ending is something to die for, I won't post any spoilers, 
 because it is really something to find out for yourself!
  
  So all in all, I give Max Payne 2: The Fall of max Payne on a scale of 1-10, a 9/10, for its awesome 
 game play, and the bad ass character, infamously known, as Max Payne.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpph
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 22, 2008 5:58 pm PT
Review:  max payne 2 is undoubtedly an excellent game but like every game it has its fair share of flaws.
 
  
  my main problem with it is the tone, its so dark and depressing and max spends most his time describing 
 how rubbish his life is. honestly, he really does. it gets old fast and to boot the plot is very 
 confusing, with lots of flashbacks and dreams etc
  
  next, the gameplay. no matter what people say, it IS repetitive. there are only two moves in it. 
 bullet time and shoot dodge. thats it. and a small selection of weapons. I've only played the demo 
 of the first max payne, but it has not changed the gameplay at all, except that shootdodge (sideways 
 uber slow motion dive) doesn't take up bullet time and when you snipe in bullet time it follows 
 the bullet. occasionally there are "cinematic kills" which is just a kill you've done being shown 
 from a different angle. i found it getting stale fast, when all i could do was those limited moves. 
 
  to summarise
  whats bad: too confusing and depressing, a strange storyline, repetitive gunplay
  whats good: 
 the gunplay before it gets stale, music, strange storyline 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dodo97
Rating: 9
Date: May 22, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  This game is perfect. It's has very good graphic. I saw that this game is also on PS2 and Xbox. I 
 saw too that rank of this game is 572 and rank of this game at PC is 189, I agree with both rank 
 becuse the game is not so good and not so bad, the game is so so.
  
  Game is for 8.0 it has good weapons in games I mean the weapons are so good created. Thats all from 
 me. The game is better than Max Payne 1. And this game is better than Hitan codename 47, but it isn't 
 better than GTA San Andreas.
  
  Damn now when I sumbited this review it says that I need to have minimum 100 characters. I mean 
 I don't no what to write. I have no ideas for this games to say here. If could Adminstrators or this 
 site please put that minim characters be 50 or less. Now it sayed that I need to have minimum 800 
 characters. I can prove that with picture if you want to see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InternetDJ
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 12:45 pm PT
Review:  I know I may get some responses to this review, but I have to be honest, Max Payne 2 wasn't all 
 it it could have been. Yeah, the graphics we're ok, but at the time, if you did buy this one, you 
 needed a pretty hefty rig to play it. Some of the characters in the game we're back, but all in 
 all this one made no sense. In the first one, if you we're lucky enough to take out horne (the main 
 boss) , you we're put into the back of a police car, and taken away, after being promised all the 
 charges against you would vanish, In Max Payne 2, you wake up in a hospital? Nothing to do with 
 the first game at all. I could go on and on here, but I don't want all of my reviews here ar gamespot 
 to be negative. In closing, Max Payne 2 got a lot of hype, but was it worth the wait? Let me put 
 it this way, if Max Payne 3 was to ever be released, I doubt I would buy it. If you want a better 
 Better game, pick up Doom 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: satorn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 11:55 pm PT
Review:  
  "Like all bad things in my life, it started with the death of a woman..."
  
  There seems to be no end of bad things in Max's life, but we don't mind. Since his explosive debut 
 in 2001's original Max Payne, the title character has had his family murdered, his career shattered, 
 his friends gunned down -- and he's been filled with more bullets than the stockroom of an Appalachian 
 Wal-Mart during hunting season. Through his inner monologue and gravelly voice, we see Max Payne 
 filled with self-doubt and an almost suicidal depression that's more dangerous to his enemies than 
 it is to himself. Somehow, he perseveres, driven by either his anger or want of justice. The end 
 result? Bad guys in bodybags and burning buildings up and down Manhattan ... as well as some of 
 the greatest action gaming you can find on any system.
  
  Max Payne 2 adds a little more to the magic of the first game, although it retains the same core 
 gameplay and storytelling tactics. The graphics engine is more polished, with more special effects 
 for realistic rain, lighting, and explosions. A new underlying physics engine powers everything 
 from falling bodies to flying debris, making the entire experience more lifelike and interactive. 
 And the narrative splits at times, telling the story from multiple angles and allowing you to play 
 as more than one character.
  
  Although it's lacking in length and replayability, Max Payne 2 is one of the most memorable action 
 titles this year (see sidebar on this page) . Many gamers will be able to slam through it in a weekend, 
 but it'll be one hell of a roller-coaster, plot-twisting, bullet-dodging couple of days.
  
  Bring on the Payne
  
  Max Payne, for those of you new to the series, is an action game built 
 around a solid gimmick: players can press a key to go into "bullet-time," where everything moves 
 in super-slow motion. In bullet-time, spent shells seem to hover in mid air and explosions mushroom 
 slowly upwards in striking clarity. It's not just a gimmick ripped off from the movies; it actually 
 affects gameplay. You're able to aim with precision while in bullet-time. Often it's the only way 
 out of a tight spot. It also gives you seemingly superhuman powers, which is fun!
  
  
  Building off of bullet-time is a special "shoot-dodge" key, which (depending on how you're moving 
 when you press it) performs any number of "leap through the air" stunts. Combining a spectacular 
 leap with bullet-time allows you to -- for example -- jump through a window and blast apart six 
 guys with submachineguns akimbo, the shattering glass hovering around you like twirling jewels. 
 And of course, the action is all filmed in third-person (looking over your character's shoulder) 
 so you can see every bit of the stuntwork. The end result is a game that superbly simulates the 
 sexy glorified-gunplay of action movies by the likes of John Woo. It's a feel that no other action 
 game can come close to.
  
  It helps that Max Payne 2 has a very tight graphics engine, whose hi-res textures and clever level 
 design make every location feel like a real place -- or the set of an action movie. Of course, 
 the original Max Payne had all these things; let's talk about what's new this time around...
  
  
  Warning: Falling Objects
  
  Gamers nowadays are probably already familiar with "ragdoll 
 physics." It's a technology where the game uses a realistic physics model to simulate a falling 
 body (sometimes with comical results) so that, for example, they'll fall properly down a stairwell 
 or won't land with their head clipping through a wall. The designers of Max Payne 2, focused as 
 they were on cinematic action, knew that ragdoll physics on dead bodies alone wasn't enough. They 
 implemented real physics modeling to every object in the game, including the 'live' characters. 
 If you hit someone in the arm, they'll flinch accordingly before firing back.
  
  More importantly, all the objects in the game have their own weight and behavior. No longer are 
 rooms built by the level designers with furniture that appears bolted to the ground. No, Max Payne 
 wades into a room like an action hero, kicking over chairs or knocking boxes aside. This accomplishes 
 two things: For one, screenshots don't do the game justice, because it looks incredible. Every 
 room is filled with clutter that'll be knocked aside as characters careen into it or grenades blow 
 it across the room. When you go into slow-motion with an assault rifle, blasting five or six guys 
 into a pile of boxes or shelves full of paint cans that clatter to the ground around them, it's 
 immensely satisfying.
  
  To a lesser extent, the new physics also impact gameplay. Although you won't be pushing around 
 furniture to block off doors (it's just not that type of game -- guns talk, not brains!) , you will 
 constantly wrestle with a changing environment. You can hit bad guys in the face by smashing open 
 doors, or blow away their cover with explosives. Stuff will fall in your way as you're trying to 
 make your way across a cluttered room, and you'll have to leap over it or find other sources of 
 cover against the constant hail of bullets. The physics are so well integrated into the gameplay 
 that you'll wonder how you ever played games without it. The locations in Max Payne 2 simply feel 
 more real than in other games; they feel lived in, cluttered, and genuine.
  
  The environments in Max Payne 2 aren't destructible by the player, but the designers found plenty 
 of excuses to blow them up around you in any number of carefully scripted sequences. With all the 
 cinematic flair of Die Hard, you can send an elevator to the bottom of a shaft with explosives, 
 then jump down into it and kick aside the heavy steel doors with a crash. That's just good gaming.
 
  
  A Story Well Told
  
  The attention to detail with the game engine extends to the storytelling as well. As in the previous 
 game, the action is divided into chapters, each one glued together with a mix of in-game cinematics 
 and "graphic-novel"-esque art panels. Game designers would do well to take a page out of Max's 
 book; the storytelling is excellent. As in Carlito's Way or Goodfellas, the action begins in the 
 middle, tantalizing us with glimpses of what's to come: Max in the hospital, a dead cop, a love 
 spiraling out of control. Discovering how Max got there (and how he's going to get out of it) pulls 
 you into the game more quickly than the best graphics in the world. 
  To be clear, we're not talking about high literature here. But the writing in Max Payne 2 has all 
 the twists, explosions, surprises, and macabre humor of several Lethal Weapon movies combined. 
 The game is billed as "A film noir love story," and re-introduces us to Mona Sax (presumed dead 
 after the first game) , a tough-as-nails assassin wearing the luckiest pair of jeans in videogaming. 
 Max and Mona's unlikely romance is made believable by good-quality voice acting (James McCaffrey 
 returns as the gravelly voice of Payne) . Max's overblown, metaphor-laden dialogue may lend itself 
 to parody, but the game never breaks character. And in context, it works. We ate it up like candy, 
 playing level after level to find out "what happens next."
  
  At times, the narrative splits, so for the first time you won't just be playing as Max Payne throughout 
 the game. Parts of the game even have both main characters on the same map, the action weaving 
 between the two of them (with Max narrating throughout.) It's a tough trick to pull off, but the 
 designers made it work.
  
  Fast On His Feet ... A Little Too Fast
  
  Max Payne 2 is a quality game all around, but gamers deserve fair warning: This one is short! The 
 crew in the GameSpy forums claims to have breezed through it in four hours, which is certainly 
 possible if you're a veteran gamer blasting recklessly through every level. If you, like this reviewer, 
 take the time to rummage through every desk, watch every TV program, and listen to every conversation, 
 you'll clock more like eight hours. It's worth it to explore: the writers manage to tie even little 
 side conversations and snippets on answering machines into the big picture, with ominous foreshadowing 
 around every corner. (As well as some truly comical moments, such as a transcript of deadpan-serious 
 Max Payne calling up a phone sex line looking for redemption.)
  
  Beating the game once unlocks special modes (such as "Dead Man Walking," where you try to stay 
 alive on a level as long as possible while bad guys pour in from all sides) , but none offer a whole 
 lot of replayability. There's no multiplayer mode ("bullet time" just doesn't lend itself to multiplayer) . 
 However, Remedy is planning on releasing modification tools sometime in the near future along with 
 documentation. That's promising, because Kung Fu Max Payne, a modification for the original game, 
 remains one of our all-time favorite mods. But it's hard to tell this early if there will be significant 
 community development to add to the life of this game.
  
  So it really comes down to what you expect to get out of a $50 investment in a PC game. Everything 
 about this game is absolutely top quality: in our testing we didn't spot any bugs or compatibility 
 problems, it runs silky smooth, and even the packaging is slick and well-designed. Nowadays, when 
 a 90-minute movie and snacks can run you nearly $20 bucks, the eight hours or more of top-notch 
 gameplay that Payne serves up is starting to look like a bargain. The action in Max Payne 2 is 
 as adrenaline-pumping as anything you'd see on the silver screen, and you're in control. Or dangerously 
 close to spiraling out of control, as Max often is. Despite the length, this is top-quality entertainment.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romanmoga15
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne delivered a powerful, cinematic quality to the gaming industry not that long ago. The 
 combination of incredible slow-motion gameplay, which would put the Matrix to shame, as well as 
 a strong vigilante/noir storyline, made it a smash hit. The Fall of Max Payne follows the example 
 of its predecessor but has a few new tricks thrown in. The result is a short but highly enjoyable 
 shooter.
  
  After the events of the original, the game begins with a prelude and a flashback that sets the 
 scene for players to take on the role of Max again. During a routine investigation of a warehouse, 
 he runs into Mona Sax, a woman presumed dead.
  
  When they become the target of a hit they must learn to work together and trust one another in 
 order to find out who's trying to kill them and more importantly survive. It's not as easy as it 
 sounds however, as she's somehow involved in the murder of a politician. Things get worse when 
 a mysterious group of thugs start eradicating members of the Inner Circle. The continuation of 
 the mob war only complicates matters as the Russians are again pitted against the Italians, who 
 are now led by their inexperienced and nervy leader, Vinnie Gognitti. Against all odds it's up 
 to you to solve the case.
  
  Max Payne 2 continues with that famous style that made the original so damn popular. The story 
 is again conveyed through the use of a graphic novel, which is narrated by Payne. There are more 
 dream-sequences, but this time they actually develop the protagonist.
  
  Primarily what makes this game different and fresh from other shooters is character and storyline. 
 Both of these work together to enthral the player and keep them interested. Through the graphic 
 novel, answering machines, etc we can garner that the main characters in the game are seriously 
 flawed people. Max is a burnout cop, torn between his feelings for Mona and the case; she's a hired 
 killer who's knee-deep in a murder; Vladimir Lem, the Russian mob boss is a shady restaurant owner 
 who possesses an alarming amount of firearms.
  
  It is a far more gritty and mature narrative than most other shooters, not to mention gripping. 
 You'll find yourself on the first time through racing through the chapters just to see the next 
 part of the story. This is just testimony as to how well it is written and presented.
  
  Apart from the story there are several other changes to the original game play. Bullet-Time, the 
 slow-motion mode, is now an unlimited resource and has been tweaked allowing players to return 
 to their normal speed after each kill. In addition to this there are several new weapons included: 
 the MP5 with its scope is ideal for blasting enemies at all ranges the dragunov proves to be a 
 powerful sniper rifle and the duel dessert eagles pack a serious punch. Another handy feature is 
 that grenades have been bind to a single key, allowing you to use these on the fly without having 
 to switch weapons. The most interesting change though, is when players get a different perspective 
 of the situation by playing as Mona Sax during several chapters; this leads to some edgy sniping 
 missions on top of a construction site.
  
  The structure of the level design is very much the same as the first, meaning that you'll follow 
 a single, linear path. The advantage of this though, is that the developers have been able to keep 
 scripting as tight as possible. The locations are quite varied with players travelling all over 
 the city from high-rise apartments, to a mansion, even a funhouse.
  
  Once inside a level there are no interruptions by load points or the graphic novel, just cut scenes 
 but they never slow the pace down and can be skipped with the push of a button. Some may find the 
 John Woo/Matrix gunplay repetitive; I didn't mind it though, as it is performed with such style 
 that it never became stale. There's nothing quite like bursting into a room, firing two guns at 
 once and diving for cover while in Bullet-Time.
  
  There are obvious homage's to the John Woo and Matrix films but there are also nods to the first 
 game. The first and most obvious of these is the revisit to the Ragnorok nightclub. The building 
 has been bought by Vladimir Lem and turned into a restaurant. Seeing this building again adds a 
 sense that time has passed on and that the city has overcome the events prior to now.
  
  Another favourite was at the end of the game when a police officer bluntly says in a hauntingly 
 tranquil voice: "They are all dead". Fans will remember when Max said this line at the beginning 
 of the first game. The last and best was also at the end, with the name of the chapter: "Waking 
 up from the American Dream". The American Dream was the name of Part One from the predecessor. 
 This actually rounds off the character, Max Payne, because he's finally woken up from this dream 
 life that he knows and wants but can never have: a peaceful New Jersey home and the perfect family. 
 He can finally accept the harsh reality that his loved ones are gone forever.
  
  This is a more mature character to the young, vigilante we saw back in 2001 and its evident in 
 both the face of his character model and his look on life. In the first game he was a framed fugitive, 
 who craved revenge and would stop at nothing to eliminate the drug Valkire. This time not only 
 has he found love again but he's dedicated to finding out who's behind the murders. While there 
 is strong development of the protagonist the ending is at the same time unforgivingly painful.
 
  
  
  For all its intelligent scripting and sharp action Max Payne 2 is quite a short ride. It has been 
 estimated to last between six and ten hours and some people have been known to finish the campaign 
 in a single day! This is compensated somewhat by the numerous modes that are unlocked. Two of these 
 are Dead Man Walking and New York Minute. The latter is a bit different from the last outing in 
 that you must reduce the time rather than keep it from reaching zero. The former plays out like 
 an infinite Deathmatch. The objective is to stay alive as long as possible with each kill adding 
 two seconds to the clock. While this is a nice diversion, it isn't at all rewarding, so a little 
 disappointment there.
  
  The last mode to be unlocked is Dead on Arrival. This is the super hard mode, with limited saves 
 and all. For this to be unlocked you must play through both Detective and Hard Boiled mode, which 
 might be too much for some, but it is definitely worth it. Rather than getting a bonus level, that 
 goes nowhere, the reward is one thing you'll definitely want to see: an alternative ending.
  
  Not only does this get you to play through the game three times, so you don't feel short-changed, 
 but it also presents the player with a slightly less depressing finale. It's rumoured to be the 
 real ending, which makes one question how the story will pan out in the third game and if people 
 will be utterly confused.
  
  Aside from the unlockable features one component from the original that remains intact is modding. 
 The first game had a huge following and saw many great mods being released. Everything from Matrix 
 moves, kung fu, as well as new guns and skins were added and the sequel will undoubtedly follow. 
 The potential is huge and already several mods are being released from new levels to DMW maps.
 
  
  On the technical side of things, the engine is flawless, bug free and like the rest of the game, 
 has been enhanced significantly. The A. I., while not brilliant, does what it has to do and can 
 cause serious damage to you. This time around however, in a move similar to Half-Life, there are 
 a few occasions where you can even the odds by receiving help from NPC. They will supply you with 
 weapons, painkillers and backup.
  
  This all is all good but the most anticipated feature is the arrival of Havoc 2.0. Set to debut 
 with Half-Life 2 the arrival of Havoc 2.0 Physics is more than welcome as it adds weight and balance 
 to almost every object in the game world, giving an unprecedented level of realism. Walking into 
 items will cause them to fall over and goons will slump realistically when fired upon, leading 
 to some first-rate animations. The stunning texture and explosion effects are also worthy of mention 
 and the sound is simply terrific. That unforgettable powerhouse score returns re-mixed on the cello, 
 weapons are explosive as you inflict damage and the voice acting is exceptional from all the characters.
 
  
  While Max Payne 2 is short there is no denying the terrific story, heart-racing action, as well 
 as the incredible visuals and sound. It would be great to see a third game to conclude the series. 
 Whether this will happen we'll just have to wait and see. For now however, go out and buy this 
 game, you wont regret it.
  
  
  For:
  + Amazing graphics and great sound.
  + Absorbing story and characters.
  + Slow-motion action and effects.
  + Modding potential.
 
  
  
  Against:
  Short campaign.
  Grim
  
  Verdict:
  Combing a great story, loads of action and incredible visuals, Max Payne 2 is an outstanding follow-up. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilipepperman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 6:00 pm PT
Review:  My review deck pretty much described what this game is: TOTALLY AWESOME! ok, so now that im done 
 with the corny **** i might as well tell you about the game. this is the sequel to the great max 
 payne, and you are max being once again pursued by gangs because of your killing sprees. along 
 the road you meet this hot chick named mona sax, who helps you, and you grow a love to. the gameplay 
 is relatively the same as max payne, except there is ultimately less strategy, as in you can just 
 run into a room of guys, gun blazing, and kill them all without getting much inflicted damage at 
 all, which in my opinion, makes the game more fun to play. the graphics are really great to look 
 at, and the explosions and physics are very realistic. The environments are really fun to play 
 through, and my personal favorite was the funhouse, which was a blast to play through, and was 
 creepy while messing with my mind. Lastly, the story and voice acting is at its best in the series, 
 making you really care about the characters, and what will happen next. it makes you think"OH. 
 it was them behind this the whole time...." All in all, Max Payne 2 was one of the best experiences 
 i have ever had in my gaming history. I would recommend it across the board to any person who likes 
 to shoot anything:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Casanova_ole
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 9:03 pm PT
Review:  I usually don't think much of 3. person shooters, but Max Payne changed my mind after only 10 minutes 
 in front of the screen. The games storyline leaves you with a thirst to find out more of the deep 
 **** Max Payne has gotten himself into after each chapter. Therefore this game is so much more 
 than just a "blow the head of some bad guys for hours" -game, but the bullet time slow motion still 
 gives you the action and shooting you need to be satisfied.
  
  The game, played on easy, gives you about 10 hours of playing, if you care about the story and 
 don't rush through the game. I can't find any flaws in the game, and it runs smoothly without any 
 glitches, still the game is not perfect. It is not anything I can put my finger on. The storyline 
 is a 10, but because the game is old and the graphics therefore is out dated, i can't rate it higher 
 than 9.0.
  
  It's a classic and a great follow up from the first game, so if you haven't played it yet, make 
 sure you don't miss out on this amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Alot of people look at Max Payne 2 in two different ways. A comedic take on cheesy noir crime drama's, 
 or a dark gritty noir love story that pierces straight to your core. No matter how you look at 
 it Max Payne is full classic crime drama cliches.... and ACTION. The story itself is very solid 
 and makes the game that much more immersive and as it progresses, you find yourself getting pulled 
 into more and more. The dream sequences are done extremely well and a great touch in my opinion. 
 The action is intense and with bullet time, it can be very cinematic. The graphics are top notch 
 as well. Everything just looks beautiful and the darkness that just seems to compasses everything 
 is a direct reflection of the story and helps drag you into even more. The music is also something 
 that is note worthy. A sad and lonely score of mostly a lone cello haunts the cut scenes. Whether 
 you feel this game has a great story or just a bunch of cheesy cliches, you definitely won't be 
 let down by the action and the gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggest_loser
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2008 6:06 am PT
Review:  Max Payne delivered a powerful, cinematic quality to the gaming industry not that long ago. The 
 combination of incredible slow-motion gameplay, which would put the Matrix to shame, as well as 
 a strong vigilante/noir storyline, made it a smash hit. The Fall of Max Payne follows the example 
 of its predecessor but has a few new tricks thrown in. The result is a short but highly enjoyable 
 shooter. 
  
  After the events of the original, the game begins with a prelude and a flashback that sets the 
 scene for players to take on the role of Max again. During a routine investigation of a warehouse, 
 he runs into Mona Sax, a woman presumed dead. 
  
  When they become the target of a hit they must learn to work together and trust one another in 
 order to find out who's trying to kill them and more importantly survive. It's not as easy as it 
 sounds however, as she's somehow involved in the murder of a politician. Things get worse when 
 a mysterious group of thugs start eradicating members of the Inner Circle. The continuation of 
 the mob war only complicates matters as the Russians are again pitted against the Italians, who 
 are now led by their inexperienced and nervy leader, Vinnie Gognitti. Against all odds it's up 
 to you to solve the case. 
  
  Max Payne 2 continues with that famous style that made the original so damn popular. The story 
 is again conveyed through the use of a graphic novel, which is narrated by Payne. There are more 
 dream-sequences, but this time they actually develop the protagonist. 
  
  Primarily what makes this game different and fresh from other shooters is character and storyline. 
 Both of these work together to enthral the player and keep them interested. Through the graphic 
 novel, answering machines, etc we can garner that the main characters in the game are seriously 
 flawed people. Max is a burnout cop, torn between his feelings for Mona and the case; she's a hired 
 killer who's knee-deep in a murder; Vladimir Lem, the Russian mob boss is a shady restaurant owner 
 who possesses an alarming amount of firearms. 
  
  It is a far more gritty and mature narrative than most other shooters, not to mention gripping. 
 You'll find yourself on the first time through racing through the chapters just to see the next 
 part of the story. This is just testimony as to how well it is written and presented. 
  
  Apart from the story there are several other changes to the original game play. Bullet-Time, the 
 slow-motion mode, is now an unlimited resource and has been tweaked allowing players to return 
 to their normal speed after each kill. In addition to this there are several new weapons included: 
 the MP5 with its scope is ideal for blasting enemies at all ranges the dragunov proves to be a 
 powerful sniper rifle and the duel dessert eagles pack a serious punch. Another handy feature is 
 that grenades have been bind to a single key, allowing you to use these on the fly without having 
 to switch weapons. The most interesting change though, is when players get a different perspective 
 of the situation by playing as Mona Sax during several chapters; this leads to some edgy sniping 
 missions on top of a construction site.
  
  The structure of the level design is very much the same as the first, meaning that you'll follow 
 a single, linear path. The advantage of this though, is that the developers have been able to keep 
 scripting as tight as possible. The locations are quite varied with players travelling all over 
 the city from high-rise apartments, to a mansion, even a funhouse. 
  
  Once inside a level there are no interruptions by load points or the graphic novel, just cut scenes 
 but they never slow the pace down and can be skipped with the push of a button. Some may find the 
 John Woo/Matrix gunplay repetitive; I didn't mind it though, as it is performed with such style 
 that it never became stale. There's nothing quite like bursting into a room, firing two guns at 
 once and diving for cover while in Bullet-Time. 
  
  There are obvious homage's to the John Woo and Matrix films but there are also nods to the first 
 game. The first and most obvious of these is the revisit to the Ragnorok nightclub. The building 
 has been bought by Vladimir Lem and turned into a restaurant. Seeing this building again adds a 
 sense that time has passed on and that the city has overcome the events prior to now. 
  
  Another favourite was at the end of the game when a police officer bluntly says in a hauntingly 
 tranquil voice: "They are all dead". Fans will remember when Max said this line at the beginning 
 of the first game. The last and best was also at the end, with the name of the chapter: "Waking 
 up from the American Dream". The American Dream was the name of Part One from the predecessor. 
 This actually rounds off the character, Max Payne, because he's finally woken up from this dream 
 life that he knows and wants but can never have: a peaceful New Jersey home and the perfect family. 
 He can finally accept the harsh reality that his loved ones are gone forever. 
  
  This is a more mature character to the young, vigilante we saw back in 2001 and its evident in 
 both the face of his character model and his look on life. In the first game he was a framed fugitive, 
 who craved revenge and would stop at nothing to eliminate the drug Valkire. This time not only 
 has he found love again but he's dedicated to finding out who's behind the murders. While there 
 is strong development of the protagonist the ending is at the same time unforgivingly painful. 
 
  
  
  For all its intelligent scripting and sharp action Max Payne 2 is quite a short ride. It has been 
 estimated to last between six and ten hours and some people have been known to finish the campaign 
 in a single day! This is compensated somewhat by the numerous modes that are unlocked. Two of these 
 are Dead Man Walking and New York Minute. The latter is a bit different from the last outing in 
 that you must reduce the time rather than keep it from reaching zero. The former plays out like 
 an infinite Deathmatch. The objective is to stay alive as long as possible with each kill adding 
 two seconds to the clock. While this is a nice diversion, it isn't at all rewarding, so a little 
 disappointment there. 
  
  The last mode to be unlocked is Dead on Arrival. This is the super hard mode, with limited saves 
 and all. For this to be unlocked you must play through both Detective and Hard Boiled mode, which 
 might be too much for some, but it is definitely worth it. Rather than getting a bonus level, that 
 goes nowhere, the reward is one thing you'll definitely want to see: an alternative ending. 
  
  Not only does this get you to play through the game three times, so you don't feel short-changed, 
 but it also presents the player with a slightly less depressing finale. It's rumoured to be the 
 real ending, which makes one question how the story will pan out in the third game and if people 
 will be utterly confused. 
  
  Aside from the unlockable features one component from the original that remains intact is modding. 
 The first game had a huge following and saw many great mods being released. Everything from Matrix 
 moves, kung fu, as well as new guns and skins were added and the sequel will undoubtedly follow. 
 The potential is huge and already several mods are being released from new levels to DMW maps. 
 
  
  On the technical side of things, the engine is flawless, bug free and like the rest of the game, 
 has been enhanced significantly. The A. I., while not brilliant, does what it has to do and can 
 cause serious damage to you. This time around however, in a move similar to Half-Life, there are 
 a few occasions where you can even the odds by receiving help from NPC. They will supply you with 
 weapons, painkillers and backup. 
  
  This all is all good but the most anticipated feature is the arrival of Havoc 2.0. Set to debut 
 with Half-Life 2 the arrival of Havoc 2.0 Physics is more than welcome as it adds weight and balance 
 to almost every object in the game world, giving an unprecedented level of realism. Walking into 
 items will cause them to fall over and goons will slump realistically when fired upon, leading 
 to some first-rate animations. The stunning texture and explosion effects are also worthy of mention 
 and the sound is simply terrific. That unforgettable powerhouse score returns re-mixed on the cello, 
 weapons are explosive as you inflict damage and the voice acting is exceptional from all the characters. 
 
  
  While Max Payne 2 is short there is no denying the terrific story, heart-racing action, as well 
 as the incredible visuals and sound. It would be great to see a third game to conclude the series. 
 Whether this will happen we'll just have to wait and see. For now however, go out and buy this 
 game, you wont regret it.
  
  
  For: 
  + Amazing graphics and great sound. 
  + Absorbing story and characters.
  + Slow-motion action and effects.
  + Modding potential. 
 
  
  
  Against: 
  Short campaign.
  Grim
  
  Verdict: 
  Combing a great story, loads of action and incredible visuals, Max Payne 2 is an outstanding follow-up. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface46
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 9
  Value: 7
  Tilt: 9
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Now this is what I call an exciting, adrenaline pumping, action-packed game, not like the first 
 one. Max Payne 2: The Fall of Max Payne has great graphics, a great story, great weapons, and most 
 importantly tons of action scenes. With great gameplay, you will be thirsty for more. The bullet-time 
 affects are incredible and it gives Max Payne more time to enielate his enemies. But you don't 
 only play as the deadly Max Payne, but in parts of the game you play as Paynes lover Mona Sax. 
 Once your done with the game, the pain is not over, you get a new difficulty called Dead or Alive 
 and also two new game modes. So if your up for an adrenaline pumping action adventure game with 
 a great story, then pick up Max Payne 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WalkingP
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2008 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne, a New York detective now back on the force after being framed for the murder of his 
 wife and baby now seeks the answers for the events that ruined his life, but now once again, fights 
 a hopeless battle. This action thriller is one of the best of its kind. You take on the role of 
 Max Payne and that of Mona Sax, his new love, thought to be dead; prepare yourself for the many 
 twists and turns of this creative plot. 
  
  Max Payne 2, The Fall of Max Payne, is the sequel to its namesake and picks up right where the 
 original ended. This game is very stable and plays flawlessly. The graphics are detailed and let 
 you play in real time and slow motion. The Game has a variety of weapons, including pistols, submachine 
 guns, shotguns, sniper rifles, grenades, Molotov cocktails, and much more. Max can be wounded or 
 killed during game play but you can completely recover by using painkillers, which you'll find 
 scattered about in desks and cabinets throughout the game. 
  
  I highly recommend this game and it should be a part of any gamers collection because it can be 
 played time and time again. It is already a classic.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockin_caz26
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 7:23 am PT
Review:  Max Payne 2: The Fall Of Max Payne is by far, one of the most thrilling games Rockstar has ever 
 made. Good thing Remedy Entertainment let Rockstar Games do it's magic. The thrilling storyline 
 from the first installment of this game is improved and made even better for the sake of Thriller/Shooting 
 games. 
  
  It's a pretty cool balance of realistic bloodshed and believable storyline. Even i started to believe 
 that Max Payne and Mona Sax was real. [Sorry for the spoilers] .
  
  The best part about the whole Max Payne series is that it has redefined the meaning of "Thrillers". 
 The graphic novels are amazing. It's like being back to the 80's and 90's, reading the "Heavy Metal" 
 g. n's but with a whole new twist.
  
  But enough with the spoiling. 
  All i'm trying to say is, THIS GAME IS THE SHIIIIIIIIT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrick00746
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 1:50 am PT
Review:  wow i thought max gonna die and this series that's why i play and buy this CD and play it cause 
 even before i don't play max Payne this is the first time i play cause the title of this edition 
 is the fall of max Payne that's why i buy this and play 
  cause and this game you been playing as a cop killing some bad ass cause for me i rather want to 
 play as bad ass and killing some damn cops that who want to waste me or bring me and jail 
 
  and also because of adrenaline i been thinking if you have adrenaline you can easy kill all of 
 you'r enemy very easy to play.................
  and now let's go to the picture of this game, this game, the have poor level detail very classic 
 texture and also and the story you can play two character, but of course your main character is 
 max................. and second one is a girl that i dint remember hes name.....................
 
  very easy to play even your not using adrenaline except and the final mission that you need to 
 think or use your mind to end the game or an very easy way is look for faq's........................
 
  and also there are some mission not one i mean some mission has all you need to walk or run to 
 the end of the path you have nothing to do just fallow the path no enemy no items to find just 
 one of a boring stage.........
  I'm was telling my opinion to this game if you want to know just find out see for your self I'm 
 not a heater of this as i said this is only my opinion.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 55584623
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 19, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  first of all, why? can somebody tell me why? why change max payne model?!?!
  where is sam lake?!
  it is really really frustanting for players who loved the first game just 
 as i loved, well but forgeting that lets go for the real deal.
  max payne 2 is a very curios game to be analized, cause despite of the graphics the game make few 
 changes, but the funny is that those fews changes are capable of making the game worst than the 
 first one.
  i know its sounds strange but, the slow motion is too fast!!! all the enemies stays very slow and 
 you very fast unlike the first one. the problem of that is that the slow motiom makes the game 
 too easy, you can even beat steven seagal with this fast slow motion!!
  and other great problem, the game ends just as fast as the slow motion!
  the first one was short 
 for sure, but max payne 2 is REALLY short.
  and the story line doesnt flow as good as the first one.
  
  well conclunding play the game 
 if you liked the first one, but in anyway is a litlle dissapointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f_an
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 8:20 pm PT
Review:  With sharp controls, good visuals, and an in depth story, I thought I found a great action adventure 
 game but with frustrating level designs and a story that eventually gets in the way: the game could 
 have been so much more.
  
  Max Payne 2 is a third person shooter where the main character is able to slow down time around 
 him. Every time Max Payne kills someone while time's slowed down then the effect is increased further, 
 making the world around you move even slower, while you blaze through your enemies. It works pretty 
 well and you defiantly have to rely on it to get through the game. This forces you to use your 
 time bar wisely since running out of power at the inopportune time will cause you to rely on your 
 slow mo side jumps (they don't take up the bar) .
  
  Most importantly the shooting and guns feel great. This is good because there's a lot of it. Getting 
 headshots and wicked kills will even slow down the game and the camera will focus on the kill. 
 This is kinda cool at first but loses its charm halfway through the game when it kicks it while 
 you're in the middle of being shot at. A slight annoyance was that Max Payne dies rather easily 
 from falling; even smallish falls will take out nearly all your health or kill you.
  
  I found the biggest problem being the levels themselves in certain areas. One of my biggest pet 
 peeves in video games is not knowing where to go next which I found happening a bit too often in 
 Max Payne. Not very often but in an action oriented game like this, it gets frustrating. Also I 
 found that I had to rely heavily on the quick save system for some parts since enemies sneak up 
 on you or when you turn a corner in a staircase, 3 guys are staring right at you. Personally I 
 think more difficulty settings should have been unlocked when you start the game (there's only 
 one in the beginning) and there should have been an easier difficulty setting, it was fine with 
 me for the most part but the game isn't exactly newbie friendly.
  
  Speaking about newbie friendly, the story isn't very friendly to people who haven't played the 
 first Max Payne like me. I found it a bit confusing at first but then I got into the story. Eventually 
 though, I found the comic noir strips being way too cheesy. In the beginning he starts saying all 
 these far-fetched metaphors and sayings which consist of half his lines in the first chapter (this 
 dies out as the game progresses) . I really enjoyed some of the lines but it got over the top way 
 too quick and the story just seemed too clichd and not well flushed out. Personally, I like games 
 that focus on stories and it's one of the things I look forward to if a game has one, so this got 
 in the way for me quite a bit in the beginning of the game where it's very obscure. 
  
  The dream sequences and other sequences that didn't focus on the action and instead were to move 
 the story forward frustrated me further. I found not knowing what the hell to do in these parts, 
 whether I was supposed to answer a random phone in the room or go through a specific door that 
 I passed by in the beginning of the level, it really killed the story even more.
  
  Despite these problems and some frustrating levels like the sniper level where Mona is covering 
 Max (I swear games just shouldn't have "protect this person" missions) it's still a solid shooter. 
 I just would have liked it so much more if some of the levels weren't irritating or had minor confusing 
 problems like not knowing where to continue next. Luckily the levels pick up in the third chapter 
 which is for the most part, by the far the best one with very solid straight forward shooting action. 
 If you are a fan of action oriented games then this is defiantly a good shooter and maybe you'll 
 like the story unlike me. It's not that it's a bad story; it's just not a story that would appeal 
 to everybody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeartBreakKID1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne was such a good game when I played it on the PC that I just had to get its sequel. And, 
 once again, it did not disappoint on any level. In some categories, the game has improved. 
  
  Pros:
  For example, Bullet Time has been fully fledged out to a point where you'll be using 
 it most of your gunfights because this time around, Max is faster in Bullet Time. Instead of everything 
 slowing down, only his enemies slow down, while Max is moving in normal time. You'll see the bullets 
 zoom by you, and you'll be able to dodge them more effectively this time. Also, in Bullet Time, 
 Max does this cool 360 turn while reloading. Another good thing is the implementation of "ragdoll 
 physics". If you played games in the Fight Night series, you'll know what I mean. For all of you 
 that don't know, ragdoll physics is something that happens when an enemy (or Max) is shot. Certain 
 gunshots will affect your enemy differently. So, the enemy's body will fall in different positions, 
 depending on the force of the gunshots, hence the name "ragdoll physics". Also, the enemies are 
 tougher this time around, so you can't use the same run-and-gun tactic throughout every level. 
 His arsenal of weapons has grown (Desert Eagle=Dual-Wielding) , the graphics are a lot better, 
 and for the most part, the story is better too. And, you can play as MONA SAX! YES! There will 
 be a few missions where you will go back and forth, playing with Mona and Max. Also, the game still 
 has good music as well.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Con:
  The only bad thing I can say is that they actually were able to make it shorter than the previous 
 Max Payne. I don't why they did this, because although it didn't miss anything storyline-wise, 
 it still left me wanting more lol
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  All in All, this game was another critical success for Rockstar games, and hopefully, they will 
 make a "Max Payne 3"!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Foxcono
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2007 9:16 pm PT
Review:  If Gamespot hadn't switched to this damn 0.5 based scoring system this wouldn't get a ten, but 
 hey, what can you do. Anyway, onto the list - 
  
  Pros:
  - Story: great characters and a supremely interesting plot that keeps you guessing until the very 
 end.
  - Format: Narration and comic book sequences make this game brimming with originality
  - Bullet 
 Time - How cool is this! Far perfected from the first one, bullet-dodges and bullet time are a 
 blast and add a huge strategy element to the game.
  - Updated Graphics - Looks truly great and runs near-max on intel integrated graphics. Bullet time 
 motion blur and environments are gorgeus.
  - Music - Fantastic Soundtrack!! Rich, orchestral sounds create a more immersive and emotional 
 atmosphere.
  - Packaging (silly, i know) - I love it! A game digipack! Practically unheard of and yet the best 
 packaging of any game I have.
  
  Cons:
  - No real replay value - once you beat it, it's really done. Maybe worth a replay after a few years, 
 but the extra game modes are near-worthless. But, honestly, who cares?
  - Kind of short - could've used maybe another chapter.
  - Kind of easy - maybe I'm just too good. 
 =P
  
  Overall the single best 3rd person shooter experience I've ever had. Makes my top 10 of all time 
 list.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bahasad
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  This game is a great sequel to the awesome Max Payne 1 game. This game does not improve the gameplay 
 of the previous Max Payne as much as other tweaks, but it definitely is a mature and interesting 
 game.
  
  Pros:
  -Graphics: Gone is the constipated look on Payne. Graphics are heavily improved, especially texture 
 detail. This game employs a more modern DX8.1 engine compared to the previous DX7 engine. -Physics: 
 The physics in this game are top notch. Pop a few shotgun shells into a goon and watch his body 
 go flying.
  -Bullet time: Yes its back and its better than ever. I think the Max gains more agility in bullet 
 time based on how many kills you get successively
  -Mona: You get to switch around gameplay and play as Mona, a very important and prominent character 
 in this game. She is just as cool, and looks pretty fine as well.
  -Story: Grimey New York crime story, mixed in with a little romance and revenge, and is expressed 
 in a very cool way  through a comic book. A quality story, in short. -Guns: This game has some 
 awesome weaponryIt is so much fun emptying dual ingram clips into anyone in your wayor using 
 a Kalashnikov/MP5 and busting some hardcore shots.
  
  Cons:
  -Lack of enough gameplay options. Pretty much all you can do is play the story.
  -Very linear
 
  -Few gameplay tweaks. -Short, unfortunately. Definitely worth a play through. It would be worth 
 it to play the first one, but it is not necessary. Another rockstar hit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Seeing as how many people love this game, there isn't really too much to add to it. The slow motion 
 is a brilliant idea and continued to be so in Max Payne 2. 
  
  Bearing in mind how boring linear games can be, this is truly a masterpiece and considering that 
 I cannot change the entire game and make it into something that I think deserves a 10, I will still 
 rank this game as a 10 because I think it truly is a masterpiece and an absolute legend within 
 its framework and its class of games. 
  
  
  
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth 
 playing if you have nothing else to play
  6 - worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely 
 anything else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 as if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10) .
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life.
  
  Best Wishes to everyone,
  
  Zak 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 5:10 am PT
Review:  This time round, Max's life got complicated with a new girl, a very cool assassin with a Dragunov. 
 In fact, my favorite part of the game is where you have to play as the femme fatale and snipe down 
 enemies who are trying to surround Max as the computer controls him. Even so, she has to fight 
 her way to strategic vantage points which are guarded by goons as well and you get maximum shooter 
 action while you combine close quarter fights and sharpshooting skills at the same time.
  
  Well, that's just one part. The rest of the action is just as packed. The story-telling also retains 
 the noir comic style if you like it in the first one. Bullet-time is still a blast to use and watch. 
 Again, a very well blend of action and investigative storyline.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3eloff
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Fantastic game. Bullettime, cool moves... list goes on. Additionally you have great graphics. You 
 can do cool things like watch Tv, or do other stuff which add a great applause for developers, 
 Thank you! For example, you're in cop station, 2 guys watch tv. You turn off tv, the guy gets up 
 and turns it back on. Genius! Best of all, the things on tv are top class so you can enjoy the 
 company of 2 handsome policemans. Payne's coat even moves when you run! 
  
  Camera is still and provides you with great experience.
  
  Nice graphics.
  
  great sound, 
 including awesome track called "late goodbye"
  
  Story is a god' present. it is that good! short, but it's twice better than today's popcorn blockbusters!
 
  
  In the end, this game is a must have. and i mean it. it is a must have or you die painfully. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexpayne
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 12:04 am PT
Review:  When I played MAXPAYNE, I really feeled like going trough the emotions of a detective. As the game 
 proceed, i feeled like i have to help MAXPAYNE with my gaming skills. The strong language and whole 
 enviornment fleshed my thoughts it compelled me to finish the game and give a little pleasure to 
 MAXPAYNE The music on background is giving the correct feeling. The graphics look natural and easy 
 feeling and comfort. 
  Whe you play the game, yoou feels all charectors in this game plays a leading role. The all bad 
 experiances in MAXPAYNE'S life strengthens him in your mind. As you not played the first part, 
 dont worry the second has a section Previous in MAXPAYNE. So you can read the game there. The comic 
 book style really gives the adventurous mood in the game. Also the pattern is so good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kumarh3
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 27, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  Max Payne 2 is indeed a great equal to a great game. Infact Max Payne 2 has better graphics than 
 the original. The bullet time is modified this time, where the shootdodging does not consume bullet 
 time. The overall game is short, it should take about 5-6 hours to complete the game on easy mode. 
 The voice acting is excellent. The background score is great, especially the theme song which is 
 moving. During bullet time, when the Max changes ammo, he turns to 360 degree in rather cool fashion. 
 The way each weapon sounds is good, especially the mp5 and dragunov. The story is good. The end 
 credit song ( Late goodbye ) is one of my favorite song. In my opinion, the first Max was good 
 looking than the second one. The way Max runs is really awkward, where in the original, he moves 
 slowly where we can hears his boots making a rhythmical noise. In spite of all this, the game did 
 not do well in the market, which is really sad. So I suggest people to buy this game, as it is 
 one of the best shooter available for PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightwarrior179
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  Max Payne is considered as one of the classiest third person shooters on PC, and it has been said 
 that for a good reason as well. It doesn't only have one of the most original element in shooters 
 in the form of bullet time, but a thoroughly deep and interesting protagonist in Max Payne himself.
 
  
  Max Payne 2 starts with unknown time after Max Payne 1, where Max Payne has joined NYPD again and 
 has been doing the quiet job until his past haunts come back as a nightmare in the form of his 
 love, Mona Sax, the fatal assassin.
  
  Max Payne 2's story has been divided into three parts, each part having it's own fair share of 6 
 to 7 chapters. Each of these chapters vary in length with some being very big to most being quite 
 small. The story in Part One and Two is a flashback of the events leading upto the superb Third 
 Part.
  
  If you haven't heard of Bullet-Time, then here's a recap. Bullet-Time is a mode in the game which 
 is initiated by default right-click of the mouse button. In Bullet-Time the time slows down and 
 and makes Max move at the speed of a bullet. You can clearly see the bullet flying through the 
 air creating ripples around it.
  
  All this is more impressive than it sounds. You will find a variety of weapons of your liking ranging 
 from pistols like Desert Eagles, semi-automatics like M4, to heavy-fire guns like Kalashnikov. 
 There are many other weapons too like Pump-Action Shotgun and Dragunov which display one of the 
 classiest graphical physics in real-time game.
  
  When you are equipped with any gun especially a M4 or a Pump-Action Shotgun, hitting your target 
 with a good accuracy would result in the time automatically slowing down to show Max Payne doing 
 a 360 degree turn and then blasting the enemy with the weapon.
  
  If you are in Bullet-Time, then you can do a 360 spin very easily. In case of a Dragunov, the sniper 
 rifle, the path of the bullet shot from it is shown every time you get a succession of hits (accuracy) . 
 This thing is very impressive as it begins with a slow movement of the bullet being shot from the 
 sniper rifle and then suddenly speeds upto an astonishing pace and hits the enemy.
  
  Many of the times even the death of an enemy is shown in form of these slow-motion where he might 
 be shown falling down from the roof etc. The main strength of Max Payne is that all the above said 
 things do not take away the real action of the game. Max Payne would actually be a hard game if 
 there had been no bullet-time as Max can die within a few shots of the impressive AI. But, bullet-time 
 will make this game very easy and you will be flying past the chapters and parts in no time.
  
  There is also a Jumpstrafe action which like in Matrix style slows down and Max Payne Jumps 
 and Strafes in slow-mo to shoot the enemies.
  
  Storywise, Max Payne is more impressive than many of the shooters these days. It shows a complex 
 series of betrayals and dark wishes of the people in the form of a comic strip type of story. This 
 is indeed how unique the developers progress the story between the chapters and parts and nicely 
 set up the setting and atmosphere of the next level.
  
  The story is centered at the depressed Max Payne, who often finds himself at the wrong place at 
 wrong time and everything in his life has gone downhill till hell. However, he still keeps living 
 everytime he wishes to die. Everyone around him start to die and more darker secrets of Max Payne 
 are revealed in the brilliant third part.
  
  The atmosphere is another strength of the game where it outclasses any great shooter. It's dream 
 sequences with it's blurred and hazy graphics create an effect that amazes the gamer till reality. 
 Another one of the great moments is when we go to Mona's hideout, a deserted horror-house which 
 is so thrilling to experience.
  
  Often, one might feel that Max Payne would have been even more better as an FPS but, then the Bullet-Time 
 always looks good in Third-Person.
  
  Voice acting is simply superb with Max Payne, Mona and Vladimir Lem's voice being brilliantly enacted.
 
  
  There is a lot of false mature content in the game like the comic-strip kissing scene between Max 
 and Mona or it might be those sleazy TV soaps that can be heard through the TV with a few clips 
 in between.
  
  Once the game is completed you can replay it at two more harder levels-known as the Hard-Boiled 
 Action and Dead on Arrival.
  
  More than that there is a special mode of speed-running known as New York Minute. Plus there is 
 an insane deathmatch mode in the designated maps where enmy spawns and respawns in the mode known 
 as Dead Man Walking.
  
  In Dead Man Walking, you will face a whole tsunami of enemies and must survive for as long as you 
 can. An average gamer can survive till around 2 to 3 minutes as the enemies just multiply irrespective 
 if you kill them or not.
  
  At the end, Max Payne 2 is a brilliant shooter that truly deserves it's name in the Third-Person 
 shooters. If you are looking for an action game that will impress you beyond your expectations, 
 then every bit of penny spent on Max Payne is worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agentdan868
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne 2 continues the excellence of the original Max Payne. This game as in the first of it 
 series starts were an event has already occurred in history to Max, and then he has a flashback 
 to were it all started and it is in this flashback where the gamer begins to play the game. I must 
 admit this style of plot is brilliant and most movies now mimic this formula. The game mechanics 
 are used perfectly. The physics the lightning effects, shadow textures are rendered with accuracy. 
 The in game dialogue is funny at times and hidden jokes make all laugh.
  
  The best addition to the game besides the improved graphics was the new bullet time ability. This 
 ability used to only slow time down for all characters including Max, but we can still aim normally. 
 Now the new ability continues this feature but as Max kills more enemies, the bullet-time meters 
 begins turning from white to a dark yellow. The darker the color, the slower time passes but the 
 movements are faster and faster; allowing Max to dodge and gun-down all his enemies in his path. 
 But the amazing feature is when the meter is dark yellow and Max begins to reload his gun. The 
 screen begins to zoom in and out with fading effect on Max while completing a full 360 degree angle 
 around Max. This new feature allows all fans of Max Payne to go on serious kill sprees and not 
 worry about life, as the game is meant to be played. I recommend this game for all who like action 
 and great story and steady game play for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: giro786
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 11:38 pm PT
Review:  the sad life of max payne continues with a nice story , great soundtrack , and the most important 
 ; BULLET TIME playing with the hot chick Mona was awesome ; and the part were they meet together 
 was awesome ; how they made up this idea ???
  
  it was a masterpiece ; i would love to play a 3rd and a 4th max payne i think that a game on the 
 way called alan wake may replace max payne with also new graphics and new engine but , will it 
 have the same influence that max payne had on us time will come and we will see 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grantelicious
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  
  - Storyline
  - Graphics (even now for both of them)
  - Attension to detail (like background noises and watching tvs etc etc.)
  - Funny jokes
  - 
 Controls
  - bullet time
  - Good length for a action game
  - Both games are one of the best ever created.
  - Some great mods
  - Great value where both 
 games will only cost you &pound;10
  
  Cons:
  
  - No multiplayer (although it wouldn't really work + they're multiplayer mods)
  
  This review 
 will be used for both Max Payne 1 and 2 because i'm viewing them as a series + they're both pretty 
 similar to eachother.
  
  When i first played Max Payne i thought the graphics were sooo amazing and not because it has a 
 high polygon count but because the details and textures were amazing. You just didn't get this 
 kind of detail in games at the time and it just really brings life to the gameplay. What you notice 
 about Max Payne at the time was that it has Bullet Time which many people said was just taken from 
 The Matrix and a Matrix game will be better but we all know how that turned out, 2 crap movies 
 and lots of crap games. The great thing about bullet time is not just the effects but that does 
 look great too but the way it can turn the tide in the gameplay. If your in lots of trouble and 
 you need to get out of a bad situation then that'll hopefully turn it for you so you don't die. 
 Basically it makes everything go slow giving you a edge to react faster than everyone else.
  
  Also what you notice about Max Payne 1 and 2 is the fantastic storyline that it gives you and 
 really makes you care about the characters and getting to the end. No other game from FPS to third 
 person action game has had a better story and these 2 games, it's great how it has a RPG standard 
 story. What you'll really love about the two games though is all the gun fights aroun all the physics 
 which is more so in the 2nd game. Just makes it sooo beautiful to watch and all that much better 
 for taking cover and just little fun things you can do. I also like how they add some little funny 
 things in the background of hotels like couples fighting and having sex.
  
  Which game has the better storyline? It's hard to say really as Max Payne 1 is finding out why 
 his Wife and kid were murdered and getting revenge. The 2nd game is about Max Payne finishing the 
 story and bumps into Mona Sax, from then of it's like a weird kinda love story between both of 
 them which put's it as my personal fave.
  
  Max Payne 1 and 2 has a very dark sense of humour which is some i found really unique to these 
 games. If they made a 3rd one and it didn't have the same humour then i don't think you could call 
 it Max Payne. Anything from dirty writing on the wall to sick tv shows and banner adverts + what 
 i just said above. I really has that gangsta ghetto rough hooker gun crime and drugs feel to it 
 which i love personally.
  
  Max Payne has some great sound effects with all the guns and all the extras to listen to i the 
 background. Also the voice acting is all done really well, specially in the 2nd game where they 
 just made it sound better. That goes for the music aswel both game shave greta music but the 2nd 
 agme sounded like it was updated with the bigger budget.
  
  Most people say Max Payne is a short game only lasting 10 hours but tbh when has a actiong/shooting 
 game lasted much longer than that anyways? Some games lately like Bioshock or MOH: A have taken 
 me only 3-6 hours to complete. So i think Max Payne has a great length with about 20 hours in the 
 series of a great storyline and great action so what more could you want?
  
  Max Payne 1 and 2 are both one of my personal faves and i couldn't realy fault them even if they're 
 quite linear, but what game isn't anyways. If theres a storyline to be told it has to be linear 
 otherwise it wouldn't have a story. IT's a shame the series hasn't sold more and it really deserves 
 to as they're both one of the best games ever created... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: norton158
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Great game. Really good. Immersive storyline. After finishing Max Payne 1 you wonder what happens 
 with Max. There is the answer after 1/2 of the game. The storyline is presented in a distinguished 
 way, picking up parts of it you get to know what happened and what will happen. The gameplay stands 
 pretty well on this game too and once you get acquanted with the keys necessary for bullet time/dodging 
 there will be no bigger problems after all. The sounds are well too. The voiceover is of great 
 quality in mayor characters and stands well good with a little bit less effort on lesses characters 
 like the Cleaner's company characters. As regarded, what really outstands in this game is the overall 
 presentation/quality in graphics, gameplay and reviewer's tilt. I played this until morning and 
 went tired to my routine without really caring to that, thanks to the these factors. So, if you 
 can get it, you will be getting a nearly perfection game, although it is higly reccomended you 
 play Max Payne 1 for getting the plot, even though the first one is not bad after all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pangster007
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 23, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  After completing Max Payne, it felt like there were a lot more that could have been done to it, 
 basically, more of it, better scenarios, better eye-candy, better sounds, and something to tie-up 
 the plot, or rather bring the story of Max to an end. This second outing does all that, but somehow 
 fails in the sense of my own expectations.
  
  Gameplay is pretty much the same as the first. The game is played in 3rd person and you gain a 
 large arsenal of weapons as you progress, what makes Max Payne different from other shooters, is 
 the bullet-time effect. In the first game, you could activate bullet-time, but moving in a direction 
 would cause you to to do a diving jump and the slow-effect would come to a stop. However, although 
 disorientating at first, MP2 changes how bullet time is played out: upon activation, your character 
 is controlled just like in normal mode and any jumps you would like to do is executed by the jump 
 button (naturally) , and the major difference now, is that the slow-effect stops once you press 
 the slow-button again or until your bullet-time guauge runs out. Rockstar have done really well 
 with this, action is now much more controllable, and is also more satisfying; once a clip is finished 
 during the slow-effect, the camera will automatically rotate around your character - who does this 
 reloading pose ala Chow Yun Fat/John Woo style - COOL. Something felt a little amiss with this 
 outing in terms of the plot, maybe it's just me, but the plot of the first game is better, easier 
 to follow, and has some good twists in it. Although you get some good understanding of the plot 
 towards the end, it feels like you're just running and shooting for a good half of the game before 
 realising what your final objective is.
  
  I did have some gripes with the graphics of MP1 even though it was a really old game, R* really 
 has given the series a big lift in the visuals, the characters have more detail, the animation 
 feels that much more natural, and the environments really are quite varied. This is first noticeable 
 from the get-go as you are introduced to the characters in big close-ups of the face. One of the 
 things i enjoyed in Max Payne were the comic-layouts of scenes which is made up of still images 
 and voice-acting. This makes a return and is still melodramatic as before. The environments are 
 littered with objects which can be destroyed or 'used' like flushing toilets (lol) , pressing switches 
 on vending machines, taps etc. And they do really well in bringing the game to life when bullets 
 are firing like crazy. Blur is used quite extensively in the 'dreamy scenes', in bullet-time and 
 the effect still has a &amp;#7811; ow-effect even after completing both MP1 and 2.
  
  The sounds have definitely improved, and i can now tell apart where shots are coming from. The 
 voices of the enemies give you a heightened awareness of your surroundings but also give clues 
 as to how you should act. There was once a part when i was supposed to go in a panic room as the 
 place explodes, but could not find it. I hid myself behind a door and heard the guards shout, the 
 bombs are set, quick, to the panic room , or something along those lines. I opened the door and 
 followed them and realised where and what i had to do; the sounds can be integral to the gameplay, 
 as you can often hear guards behind doors, or shouting out orders such as setting off bombs.
  
  One of my favourite highlights of the game involves you playing a second lead character, a 
 female, sniping enemies in order to clear the way for Max Payne (the main character you controlled 
 previously) . The sniping action was extremely satisfying as before, especially in bullet-time. 
 And this section of the game came at just the right time as the game did start to feel stale. One 
 scene which i felt was quite funny was when in the ploice station, this woman (not part of the 
 story) comes to the front desk and tells the policeman of the fear she feels when her son plays 
 videogames - holding that controller, was just like holding a real gun! , another jab at the media 
 from Rockstar...
  
  I completed this game in about the same time-frame of the first game, and yet again, it unlocked 
 some more modes. I didn't feel like playing the game again, mostly because the game can feel stale 
 at certain parts of the game, in fact, i stopped playing the game for about 2 weeks at one point. 
 I convinced myself to push on as it felt i was close to the end of the game. The pacing was probably 
 just right, but for someone who went though the first game it didn't win me over. This game defintely 
 did not convince me to play it through again, rather, i was glad to see the ending credits (a very 
 satisfying one, as well!) . Longevity depends on how much you liked the gameplay and the only difference 
 of the other modes are time attack, more difficult (by up to 2 more levels) , or survival.
  
  To sum up, this game is better in almost every way than the first. However, it fails to meet 
 my expectation of it surprising me or doing that much extra as a complete game. It is basically 
 the first game with a new lick of paint and a few extra well-crafted scenarios. Actually, i would 
 say, skip the first game and go straight to the second. Having played the same gameplay a second 
 time round, you wouldn't want to go back to the first, and the game mechanics feel a lot more varied 
 or less stale just playing Max Payne 2 rather than going the whole length with both. A great game, 
 play this game if you haven't played Max Payne. For those who have played and completed the first 
 one, be wary of feeling a little bored or underwhelmed at times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 13, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Since summer is somewhat dull for PC gaming, I thought I'd go back in time and check out some great 
 games that I missed. One that stood out was Max Payne 2, promising a film-noir love story. After 
 installing, I checked out the previously video and after that fired up the game. What immediately 
 stood out was the amount of story that's packed into this game. The story is told through graphic 
 novel-style cutscenes, with a dark, film-noir style art. The second thing was the main character 
 himself. I was suprised by how much you talked, letting us in on what goes on in his head, and 
 by the end of the game, you might find that you feel sorry for the guy after all he's been through. 
 Made in 2003, the graphics are still pretty, though some textures are slightly blurry. Despite 
 the blandness of the environments, you'll still think it looks cool due to being everything looking 
 so shiny. The sound is great, all the voice actors fit the characters perfectly and they deliver 
 a great job with their work. Gameplay is like your typical third person shooter but the use of 
 bullet-time is what makes it fun. Activating it slows everything down but you can still move normally 
 and fire away. The more accurate you are, the longer you can stay in bullet-time. The only major 
 gripe is that its short. I spent around 8 to 10 hours playing but that's because I sometimes stood 
 around listening to the hilarious conversations and pseudo-TV shows that poke fun at the game. 
 Overall, this is a worthy buy if you find that you got nothing else to play until the Great Game 
 Avalanche of 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  Remedys only previous work had been the long-forgotten racing game Death Rally  hardly the kind 
 of pedigree that augurs a classic. But with the original Max Payne, the Finnish studio whacked 
 one out of the park.
  
  We lauded it with our prestigious Editors Choice award. Though some people balked at the games 
 length (only around eight hours) and lack of multiplay, we applauded Max Paynes visceral, finely 
 crafted, and intensely paced solo experience.
  
  Much of the same sentiment can be applied to this sequel. Its a graphical powerhouse that knits 
 breathtaking firefights with a tight narrative that twists without tripping over itself. Unlike 
 most games, Max Payne 2 is all about story  told in three parts, each split into several chapters. 
 And its definitely adult 
  this Mature-rated game drops the F-bomb on several occasions, as well as many dozens of corpses.
 
  
  The eponymous hero is tortured and tragic (or tragic-comic, if youve never been able to buy into 
 the starkly stylized noir-speak that drips from our heros voice-over) . During graphic novelstyle 
 interludes and in-engine cut-scenes, every one of Maxs contrived metaphors is delivered through 
 clenched teeth, as if each syllable could be his last.
  
  But they couldnt drown the sobs of my dead wife, says Max. Heavy, man, heavy. Or lame. Your 
 call.
  
  With the murder of his wife and child avenged at the end of the first game, Max returns to police 
 work, incredulous that the trail of violence left in his vengeful wake didnt get him (a) killed, 
 or (b) incarcerated. (The backstory to the original game is supplied in graphic-novel form in a 
 menu option titled Previously.)
  
  Using the flashback technique familiar in movies but used only sparingly in games, Max Payne 2 
 starts off its hero in a hospital, weaponless. And right from the get-go, it establishes itself 
 as a game for gamers  with an apparent expectation that youve played the original game before. 
 There is no hand-holding introduction to gameplay, no tests to make sure that you can manipulate 
 the mouse or that youre practiced with the controls. Youre in the story. Youre Max Payne. Get 
 familiar, quick. And remember, F5 is your quick-save button!
  
  If you did miss the first game, an important tip is to grab painkillers (health) anywhere you see 
 them  in cabinets, lockers, or cupboards, and sometimes hidden atop crates, high on shelves, or 
 under tables and benches. And make sure youre comfortable with your bullet-time, shoot-dodge, 
 and combo commands.
  
  THE BULLET BALLET
  Ahhh, bullet time  n: The function by which you slow down time in the game. It gives you a huge 
 advantage in firefights by letting you react and aim in real time. And shootdodging (yes, apparently, 
 its really trademarked)  n: The function by which you dive sideways, forward, or backward while 
 still firing at enemies in slow-motion; syn.  kickass gunplay.
  
  Stylistically, hitting your bullet-time key turns the slo-mo world into a sepia-tinted arena for 
 the death dance. Vibrant colors in the environment are dulled, putting all the focus on you and 
 your enemies. While the amount of time you can spend in this mode is limited by a timer icon, its 
 refreshed when you take down baddies. And if you get so into the zone that the timer turns yellow, 
 youll be inflicting even more damage in your onslaught.
  
  During a bullet-time rampage, youll need to do a lot of reloading. The pay-off for a reload is 
 a motion-blurred slo-mo pirouette thatll make you grin in admiration of your bad-assery every 
 time it happens. It never gets old.
  
  All around you in the environment, objects react to the swarm of bullets peppering every surface. 
 Boxes fall from their neatly stacked piles, tables splinter, and chairs tumble. Thanks to the Havoc 
 physics engine and its ragdoll effects, enemies react to shots based on velocity and distance  
 they twist, turn, and lurch back from the force of every impact.
  
  Like few other games, Max Payne 2 features cinematic combat sequences that youll want to replay 
 again and again just to see what new panorama of devastation you can paint in any given environment.
 
  
  But if you played the first game, you know this already. Max Payne 2 gives some fresh nuances to 
 bullet time, but its gameplay doesnt feel like the revolutionary experience it was the first time 
 around.
  
  Similarly, despite the staggering level of detail and the number of objects that move when you 
 bump into them, you cant use anything: You cant pick up any of the movable boxes, or interact 
 with any other objects beyond using phones, TVs (which show the latest episodes of Captain Baseball 
 Bat Boy and hardass cop Dick Justice) , and some security systems. Of course, interactivity isnt 
 what Max Payne is about  its about laying the everlovin smack down.
  
  WELCOME TO THE FUNHOUSE
  Right, so back to the story. Im going to dance around its specifics 
 so as not to spoil any of the real surprises. Whats fair to say is that still-breathing cast members 
 from the first game return  Vinnie Gognitti, Vladimir Lem, and Woden. Central to the whole shebang 
 is Mona Sax, a contract killer who was after the same person as you in Max Payne. Shes your love 
 interest, partner in crime (-solving) , and, in a key turning point, a character that you actually 
 play!
  
  Its one of the cool new twists: Youre playing as Max as he escapes from an exploding building 
 (gas tanks and volatile barrels litter the landscape of this virtual New York, meaning that any 
 firefight has the potential for a few well-placed or misplaced bullets to unleash an inferno) , 
 and the chapters concluding cut-scene sees Max bruised and trapped under a fallen beam. Now, as 
 Mona, standing above the scene at this construction yard, you get to use a powerful Dragunov sniper 
 rifle to protect Max.
  
  As Mona, the interface now shows your own health, plus Maxs as hes lying prone. You have to pick 
 off enemies trying to snuff him while hes defenseless. The action then moves through the yard 
 as Max takes a pounding from all sides and Mona races around the warehouse finding the best vantage 
 points from which to waste the bad guys. If Max takes too much damage and dies, its game over 
  or at least time for an F9 quick-load.
  
  Additional new gameplay mechanics include you (as Max again) teaming up with four buddies in 
 a fast-paced run-and-gun shootout down a graffiti-daubed street. Another mission (youve got to 
 see this one to believe it  I cant give away its absurdity) has you protecting a character as 
 youre swarmed by The Cleaners  the bad guys in the Squeaky Clean vans who are doing laundry, 
 but not your whites and colors.
  
  And in the games concluding location, a sumptuous mansion where the walls are covered in exquisitely 
 detailed paintings, Max and Mona work together, linked by headset communicator, eliminating everyone 
 in their sights until they reach a breathtaking climax.
  
  While I found Part I to be a little too reminiscent of the original game  grimy New York tenement 
 buildings and crack houses can only get so much graphical clean-up  Part II ups the tension, and 
 Part III is a thrill-ride that you should start only when youve got three uninterrupted hours 
 to spare so you can really get the full effect of the story.
  
  Ultimately, Max Payne 2 took me about nine hours to complete. Once finished, I headed back through 
 on Hard Boiled difficulty, in which enemies are tougher. Beyond that, you can try Dead On Arrival, 
 where you have limited saves. A single-player deathmatch mode, Dead Man Walking, is a fun diversion: 
 you try to stay alive for as long as possible, with new enemies spawning in, endlessly focused 
 on gunning you down.
  
  A word of warning: youll need considerable horsepower to get your eyes on the highest levels of 
 detail. A top-of-the-line (3GHz) system with a RADEON 9800 PRO will let you play with 6x anti-aliasing 
 and all the details maxed with not a hint of slowdown at 1280x1024. But if youre packing anything 
 close to the minimum specs, youll have to lose a number of detail levels to ensure the firefights 
 are stutter-free. The audio is pretty good, too, so Id suggest using headphones if you dont have 
 5.1 speakers.
  
  For its graphics, and those stunning action sequences that youll be boring your buddies with for 
 weeks, Max Payne 2 is a definite must-have for action fans. But its not quite the revolution that 
 made Max Payne a must-have for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: portossthedog
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game I've ever played. The story line is the greatest. I just love the hole detective 
 story and the model is of the Max is super cool and hot :D!!! The game is really interesting and 
 scary at some missions. But the best part is the cool Matrix like moves that Max does that make 
 the game so special and trilling. I' ve payed this game a lot and I can say that when you sit down 
 you can't stop. All the weapons and jumping around really is cool and fun and you want more and 
 more. The thing is that you can't stop thinking about the story. Trying to solve the mystery you 
 just wan't to jump to the end and see what happens. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bedram793
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 28, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  If you haven't played the first game, then you should play it before playing this. If you don't, 
 you'll get confused about the story. 
 
  The graphics are really good. It's not great at one thing, but good at everything. Detailed faces 
 bring this game to life. The physics engine is also great. You can knock over tables and chairs, 
 unlike the first one. 
  The sound is great. Everything from the voice acting ( the lip synching is pretty bad) to the sound 
 of the weapons. 
  The gameplay is where the game really shines. The slow mo thing is really cool and it's really 
 smooth. 
  I would probably give the lasting appeal about a 9.5. The game isn't very long, but their's extra 
 modes you can play and the mod community is sure to keep you playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Desalbert-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 17, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne, in its first rendition, was a bomb shell of a game, delivering, fast, adrenaline pumping, 
 and innovative action. The second showing brings much of the same, though it is, by rights, subsequently 
 less innovative than its predecessor, for the simple fact that its been done before. However, taking 
 that into account, it becomes clear that, on the PC, Max Payne 2, and, by association, Max Payne, 
 are two games that have made quite the franchise.
  
  Truth be told, the game, to me, shines more in purposes of story telling than a sheer action game, 
 but it is certainly saying something when I also find this to be one of the more enjoyable action 
 games I have played, despite the game's last generation graphics engine. The heart pounding thrill 
 of firing a hail of bullets from the nozzles of two Ingram Uzi's while diving side ways in slow 
 motion, barely evading demise yourself is quite an expirience. What's more, as said, the story 
 is tremendously engrossing in the way that it is depicted, in a dark, graphic novel, smoking gun, 
 game-noir style. Granted, the story, -as well as the gameplay- holds a few quirks, and questionable 
 relevances and developments, but it is none the less, incredibly enjoyable.
  
  As far as the gameplay quirks, there are, admittedly, several, that are entirely minor and are 
 hardly ditracting. What does ditract from the fun to be had, is a real sense of (despite the unravelling 
 story) repitition. Sure, shooters are defined by the shooting of enemies, but, the user begins 
 the game the same way they ended it, in a blaze of gunfiring, slow motion diving, and painkiller 
 popping glory... For what its worth, the game is an absolute blast, though slightly derivative, 
 repeditive, and almost too easy at the default setting, (which the user is forced to play the first 
 run through) .
  
  I can safely recommend this game to fans of the franchise, though, to new comers, I suggest a play 
 through of the original Max Payne, which, to be honest is the superior preformer. Also, please 
 note that this game was reviewed specifically on the PC, as the other platforms seemed to provide 
 a far less enchanting expirience.
  
  Overall, its a great title, with my last and only gripe being the length. You may not get much 
 bang for your buck if you purchased it at full price, but with age, and the lowering of cost, not 
 only do you get a hell of a lot of bang, but you also save a few bucks in the end. Good things 
 come to those who wait, and those who waited a few years back, anxiously for this title, should 
 come away pleased.
  
  Overall Score: 8.5 Defining Features: Exhilirating Gunplay &amp; Great Story-Telling Expirience
 
  Notable Slip-Ups: Fairly Short, AI Leaves something to be Desired (on the default, mandatory setting 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmiquila
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2007 7:30 am PT
Review:  When I finished playing Max Payne, I was hungry for more. Not because Max Payne was short or weak 
 or didnt finish quite right, no. I wanted to play more of Max Payne because it was so good it 
 was a sin not to have a sequel
  
  So, the developers went ahead and released this sequel. Even if I think overall Max Payne was better, 
 this sequel was a must, and as such it was sometime as good as Max Payne, and in some senses better, 
 at least on the game play. For example, the time-replenishing feature of Bullet Time adds a nice 
 touch to the strategy you must develop to advance through the game. Graphics are also better, and 
 the story is quite unique and different than Max Paynes, which in a away is welcomed as it shows 
 the game can go on a different direction and still be a great game
  
  So, if you enjoyed Max Payne, you cant miss this sequel. Hope the developers think this should 
 be a trilogy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oonge
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  Max Payne 2, brief but totally worth it. Great story line and game play to boot. Its like being 
 in an action packed movie, and you are the lead actor.
  The only down bit of it is the length, too, too short. But all the same got to give it credit, 
 the story keeps you on edge from start to finish. Another down bit, towards the end where one is 
 to fight Vlad, aiming for those rods is a bit of a let down. Especially in comparison with the 
 level of accuracy in aiming achievable when shooting people around you in the game. One other minor 
 irritating bit, the TVs in the game, its appreciable that it would have been harder to get moving 
 pictures on them like actual TVs, but making them like a kids toy TV set doesnt help much. Better 
 off having scraped that totally
  Apart from that there really isnt anything negative to say about it. The sounds are great, wonderful 
 storyline even has a bit of suspense in it. Also the interaction with the environment settings 
 is quite impressive.
  All in all its a must have for anyone whos ever played any game and is looking for the next thrill. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rj5958
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 18, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  I played through the first Max Payne and I was awestruck by how innovative the game was (introducing 
 bullet time and all) . This second game makes it even easier for players to enjoy bullet time (as 
 it regenerates; albeit slowly) . Also they've reworked some of the gun types (you can get dual DEagles 
 without modding) . The game also has a darker, more mature theme (which totally worked) for Max 
 Payne 2.
  
  The game also has many hilarious moments (but players have to be vigilant to be able to hear or 
 see some of the funny stuff) .
  
  When you play a game this epic, sometimes you feel drained when an ending doesn't go the way you 
 would have wanted it to go, but MP2 had an alternate ending that made the conclusion very satisfying. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xchange17
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 14, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  This game is excellent, great gameplay a little difficult for those who didn't played Max Payne.
 
  Graphics were an improvement that was needed in the first Max Payne and it was sucedded, Max Payne 
 face it's a lot better than before.. if u know what i mean... xD.
  Sound was improved but it still isn't there.
  But it's still too short and the problem of the 
 game is that TOO SHORT!
  Almost all people say that the first Max Payne is better than the second, well IT'S NOT TRUE, the 
 first Max Payne had some terrible graphics, worst gameplay and sound!
  
  In overall it's an excellent game and in my opinion is a MUST PLAY!
  
  xchange17 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uncledeath2005
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 1, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  The first Max Payne was rather akin to a one night stand. It can be a great experience but is over 
 before you can really get into it (no pun intended :P)
  This sequel heightens the experience but once again finishes before it has really begun.
  
 
  This game picks up where the last one left off, after Max's murderous rampage he is somehow installed 
 to his former job with no charges against him. I won't spoil the story but suffice to say this 
 story has just as much power as the previous.
  
  The graphics have recieved a complete overhaul. No longer does Max look constipated nor the textures 
 muddy. This game has to been seen to be believed. Just press pause in a big firefight and you will 
 see what I mean.
  
  The sounds is excellent also with great atmospheric music and good voice actors. The musical motifs 
 are excellent and certainly stick in the memory. Plus the bang and crackle of the guns cannot be 
 faulted.
  
  The only niggles with this game are the rather linear and repetative gameplay and the much maligned 
 lack of longevity. Things I feel are holding this game series back from true greatness.
  
  Max Payne 2 is a fantastic game no doubt.. it has outstanding graphics, excellent sound and an engrossing 
 story. For the price it can be picked up for today it is essential....... while it lasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dpic
Rating: 1.4
Date: May 20, 2007 2:26 am PT
Review:  i didn't much like this games for a lot of reason mainly because it didn't get that hard for me 
 though i don't know about you but even on hard i almost never had to use the slowmo. Another thing 
 that mad me mad about this game is it was VERY short i finished it in a couple of days and only 
 played for a couple of hours each day. I give this 1.4 because you get a lot of ammo but... you 
 only get a lot of ammo for SOME guns, for example i liked to use the double desert eagle but you 
 never got ammo for it. I also did not like the story very much i just thought it was pretty bad. 
 Lastly the ending 'boss' was, oh how to say this... a joke, i don't want to ruin this for people 
 who are going to get the game anyway so when i had to shoot the little bars i shot them but nothing 
 happened i mean you aim at them and they don't move and this is why i had to use the slowmo just 
 to get a chance to even hit the bars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lonelynight
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 29, 2007 6:36 am PT
Review:  I didn't played the first Max Payne game before playing this but I understand the story and I think 
 its good but I don't really care about the story in this game.
  
  Pros:
  The shooting is great because you can use slow motion, and most of the environment are destructible. 
 It also has rag doll physics. The voice acting is also very good. A lot of difficulty settings 
 so I won't be too hard or too easy.
  There are modes too unlock.
  
  Cons:
  This game is too short.. Thats about it.
  
  So, if you like the first game or action games 
 and haven't got this game yet, go and buy it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newyork_graffit
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 28, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  6 years ago, Rockstar Games and Remedy Entertainment, changed the face of the gaming Earth with 
 one game, and an all-new feature. The game was Max Payne, that feature was a little thing called 
 Bullet-Time . That little unknown feature has been used in almost every shooter, but it has been 
 used like it first was, back in Max Payne. Well, in 2003, Rockstar and Remedy released the sequel, 
 Max Payne 2: The Fall of Max Payne. The game was very short, compared to the original, but the 
 gameplay, graphics, and sound make it every bit as good as the original.
  
  Let's start out with that misunderstood, tragic, and heroic man they call Max Payne. Max started 
 out as a detective in the DEA, but after his family and partner were murdered, he left drugs, and 
 went back to America's most loved people, the New York City Police Department. Of course, as soon 
 as he gets to the NYPD, things, once again, start to go wrong. Max looked a lot like the man that 
 designed him in the original, Sam Lake. Max looks notably older, more rugged, and is modeled after 
 a completely different actor, Timothy Gibbs. That mother-of-all-ironic names that has been thrust 
 upon him, has made him a, household name, if you will.
  
  They're are some all-new characters in the game, like Max's new partner, Detective Winterson. But 
 for the most part, the character's are familiar faces like, Mona Sax, Vinnie Gognitti, Vladimir 
 Lem, Alfred Woden, and many others.
  
  Since this is a newer game, the graphics should be better. As you may already know, the graphics 
 are great. The character models look smooth and sharp. The environments for the most part, are 
 good looking as well. Some of them, look flat, and unsettling. Although, I'm sure that making them 
 unsettling is a key in making this game as intense as it is, they just look flat-out bad sometimes.
 
  
  The sound is also better this around. Max is voiced by Rescue Me's James McCaffrey again, and he 
 does another very solid voice-over job. His voice is gritty, and the metaphors he uses are all 
 once again, very entertaining. The other actors do a great job as well. The score for the game, 
 resembles the first game very much, and thats not a bad thing. The music is very creepy, gritty, 
 and sometimes a little melancholy. All around, the sound is one of the things that shines for Max 
 Payne 2.
  
  As for the gameplay, if you've played the original Max Payne, you'll find that very little has 
 changed. Once again, that's not a bad thing in this case. All the shooting is still fun, realistic, 
 and intense. The enemies A. I. is still a little clumsy, but they can be very challenging at times, 
 especially when they use group tactics to swarm around you and take you down. Plus, the use of 
 bullet-time is still fun to use, and the slow-mo aspects of the game, certainly won't let you down.
 
  
  All in all, Max Payne 2: The Fall of Max Payne, is pretty much the same game that Max Payne was. 
 Despite a better graphics system, some new musical scores, and better ragdoll physics, you may 
 find that they are almost the exact same game. This is not a disappointment, however. If you liked 
 the original, then you'll love its sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skojic
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2007 5:18 am PT
Review:  Max Payne 2: The Fall of Max Payne follows our anti-hero closely as he descends even further in 
 his own personal hell...
  
  Several events took place since we were left with the ending of the original Max Payne as our favourite 
 anti-hero sat in the back of a police vehicle, handcuffed and smiling. Max Payne was released of 
 charges with the help of Alfred Woden and finds himself back on the job, the NYPD. All seems to 
 be going smoothly for Max as he belives his troubles are over - until a person he thought dead 
 comes back to haunt him...
  
  The gameplay is left intact from the original, combining 3rd person action and the famous bullet-time 
 dodges and jumps. The graphics are upgraded and Max has grown older so his appearance is not the 
 same as in the original. One of the most notable changes is the ragdoll motion the developers used 
 for the dead bodies Max creates as he *cleans* his way through various warehouses and buildings 
 and sometimes even streets. The music is a bit changed to be darker but remains the same in the 
 core. Old characters are brought back and some for one final time...
  
  So if you're a fan of the franchise or if you're just looking for a quality story filled with bullet-time 
 action, Max Payne 2 will not dissapoint... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agturboninja
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 14, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  So dark it was pitch black, so black it was like thousands of daggers thrusted into my heart, so 
 many metaphors and similes like galaxy of stars.
  
  Max Payne was a great game, how they made a sequel is ridculous. Max Payne killed 600+ mobsters 
 druggies and criminals in the first one and his family is dead. Max Payne needs to take more pills 
 to make the pain go away. The only thing Max is good at is killing bad guys, and you have to kill 
 more. I thought it would be more interesting if Max Payne partnered up with Vladmir and build a 
 huge crime operation, since being good friends in the first Max Payne, but no. The graphics and 
 sound is great, the bullet-time is top-notch and Dead Man alking is great to kill hordes of criminals 
 coming at you. The mods help a lot like the kung-fu mod, cinema mod, and the era4ser mod.
  
  No other developer does bullet time like Remedy.
  
  Overall it's a great game but the story 
 and plot is lame and bad. If there is a Max Payne 3 he needs to go on a killing spree and escape 
 from a asylum. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baganb
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 12, 2007 6:33 am PT
Review:  if you want to expirience an amazing storyline and top notch graphics , than you should'nt even 
 consider playing max payne 2 , because this game let's you feel like you are playing a real character 
 . this game should be on the top of your list , but the only thing that bother me was that the 
 storyline is too short and also the gameplay is kind of similer to the original max payne. even 
 if this game is short (about 6 our prox) you should play it again on a higher level like hard or 
 maybe more .
  this game should not dissapoint you in any way , the storyline is excellent , the graphics is one 
 of a kind , and the gameplay is the bomb , so don't stand there and reading my review , go get 
 this game at any cost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 7, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  Max Payne had been an action story of suspense, revenge, betrayal and tragedy. The part two of 
 this game had to accommodate these elements on a new storyline. This sequel successfully does this 
 job, plus offers a cool new storyline -- a love affair that feels tragic throughout the game. It 
 is like acting inside a classic action movie. This game is as flawless as the original one. The 
 action is as intense as expected, and delivered in a cool style. The music, the cut-scenes, the 
 graphics and the dark bloody environment add to the story telling remarkably well. Its a must-have 
 game for gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazook
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 31, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  I kind of wish Frank Miller was working on this game, then he would've made it even better plus 
 the original Max Payne. The writing, action, weapons and suspense to the ultimate reality of who 
 the bad guy actually is, is amazing.
  
  Gameplay: While it's basically the same from Max Payne, it feels sort of fleshed out and the your 
 bullet-time meter isn't wated out if you just go into slow-mo without dying. So I give Gameplay 
 a 9 Graphics: are really good just loads of detail on the environments and the characters look 
 pretty good, oh and the amazing graphic novel cutscenes are the best so I give it a 10, even a 
 friend of mine thought it was a 360 game lol. Sound: The Voice acting was so good I couldn't beleive 
 it then again most of these voices are from the first one so if you played that game, you'll immediatly 
 recognize the characters just from listening. The Music feels so tragic and gritty which is exactly 
 what the game is on about. Value: Still no multiplayer, oh well the single player and difficulty's 
 are amazing to play through plus there's the mods to download for different chapters or different 
 gameplay styles. Tilt: I couldn't stop playing this game, it was that good, the action was so good 
 you wish a gigantic mob war was going on and that you were apart of it with some amazing music, 
 it's sometimes fun to play the game with the Matrix mod since the music from the fight scene where 
 Neo fights loads of Smiths plays in the background and that music was pretty damn good. I can't 
 wait for another sequel to Max Payne. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorantula
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 28, 2007 10:32 pm PT
Review:  I really hope they make a 3rd after Alan Wake and hope also Alan Wake is a game i'd want to play 
 if i loved Max Payne. Max Payne 2 leads the story onwards and does a perfect job with it and it's 
 every bit as good as the first and more so. The game really is more of the same in terms of gameplay 
 and does a little bit more. Was also one of the first games i noticed to take advantage of the 
 Havoc engine. The graphics were just AMAZING again for it's day and specially a massive step forward 
 from the first. Only problem i had at first is i didn't like the face lol.
  
  The storyline is more romantic and in many ways better than the first because of it and i really 
 cared for the characters. It was told perfectly and even if you hadn't played the first you could 
 watch a video on the Menu telling you what happened.
  
  The humour is still there and theres plenty to explore for and listen to. The sound and music are 
 even better than the first and it's just perfect.
  
  In many ways Max Payne 2 has improved from the first and you'd expect it to be a failure like many 
 other games, which makes it even more impressive. I really love the Fun house levels and the ending 
 with Mona Sax too.
  
  I just wish there was a great multiplayer to back up te single player but i'm not complaining as 
 it was &pound;30 well spent IMO in one of the best games ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hiddai
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 20, 2007 4:54 am PT
Review:  Well this game was one of my presents of my Bar Mitzvah. A girl called Shira Lendman bought it 
 to me
  
  I installed this game and I was amazed to see its amazing graphic and the dramatically amazing 
 story this game has to feature.
  I didn't play the first game but it was a fresh beginning to me and I didn't feel like I missed 
 something and the story is very good.
  The Graphic of the game is amazing (the cut scenes and the gameplay share the same graphic) and 
 so the Sound that is sometimes made me shudder...
  
  The Gameplay is amazing and the TPS feeling is somewhat very strong and the Bullet time feature 
 plays a major roll in this game as you can make tens of classic killing styles to your enemies 
 that each time you do it you will say one big WOW or COOL and if you kill a lot of enemies your 
 bullet time bar will increase and you can reach the maximum of the bar and then your bullet time 
 will get insane and Max will turn into a-stronger-than-superman power!!! After each level you will 
 have a Comic-like cut scene that tells you the thoughts of Max and sometimes you can play a level 
 that is actually a dream of Max and the gameplay is very enjoyable!!!
  
  The game feature a respected amount of weapon from a normal 9mm Beretta to the IMI Desert Eagle 
 to the Ingram MAC -10 (and if you get 2 of the same type of these weapons Max will hold them in 
 both hands makes it much more cool to kill!!!) and also heavier guns like Shotguns, MP5 and AK 
 47 and even grenades and SWS!!!.
  
  The game unfortunately doesn't have MP mode but the SP mode gives you a lot of difficulty levels 
 and they are VERY challenging even for good players but this game I highly recommend you this game 
 because this isn't just another game this is a work of art!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbrading
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  The original Max Payne gave us a long enough taste of mind-bendingly exciting action and adventure 
 to make us salivate profusely at the mouth with delight, and then quickly took it away before we 
 got too greedy. Max Payne 2: The Fall of Max Payne takes almost the exact same approach, but gives 
 us a slightly different, but just as engrossing, experience. Although we all wish the game had 
 been just a little longer, its quality would probably have suffered. For what you get then, Max 
 Payne 2 is an absolute diamond of the highest degree.
  
  First off, if you havent played the original Max Payne, go out and play that first, as it is a 
 truly fantastic game in itself. Although there is a very nice and handy storyboard cutscene summarising 
 the events of that game, actually playing through it means that you will understand the story much 
 easier. Since the storyline is one of the best aspects of the game, this point should not be underestimated 
 in any way. This time around, Max has dispensed with his Hawaiian shirt, is out of the DEA and 
 back into the NYPD as a detective, when he gets called to a warehouse where shots have been reported. 
 However, the storyline actually jumps around in a very cool kind of Pulp Fiction style, and so 
 the first thing you experience is Max awaking in a hospital, before suddenly hopping back to the 
 beginning again. Starting the game in medias res was an exceedingly novel idea, gives the game 
 a sense of style and adds to the film noir feel even more. Although Max has put pay to several 
 ghosts already in the first game, he is still deeply haunted with Survivors Guilt over the deaths 
 of his wife and child, and has not been able to get over it. Further, his infatuation/love interest 
 with the character of Mona Sax has notably increased. There are also new twists around the corner 
 waiting to be discovered. Overall, the plot of Max Payne 2 is just as good, if not better than 
 the original, offering a very interesting twist at the end.
  
  On gameplay, Max still has access to a nice variety of weapons, and can now brandish dual Desert 
 Eagles, for double the killing power. Further, Paynes main advantage over his enemies, Bullet 
 Time, has gone through a substantial change. Before, it was of mainly about shoot-dodging your 
 way round corners and leaping across rooms from cover to cover. Now, as well as that, activating 
 Bullet Time just before an encounter with numerous enemies will allow Max to continually speed 
 himself up and slow down time further in line with the number of bad guys he takes out, making 
 large battles hugely entertaining as bullets ricochet everywhere and the rooms become wrecked with 
 holes and blood. AI is now even more intelligent, rolling around, hiding and throwing grenades 
 when suitable. Aiming on the PC is nice and easy as always, and you can choose the design and size 
 of the reticule. The ragdoll physics are good, and allow vanquished enemies fall in many interesting 
 (and occasionally amusing) ways. There are also several levels where you get to play as Mona Sax, 
 which is good fun and a nice change, but as Max is the more intricate character, his levels are 
 much more exciting.
  
  The graphics have improved substantially. Lip syncing on the characters is almost perfect, the 
 character models are highly detailed and expressive, and all the environments are extremely interactive. 
 Instead of a blizzard, there is now heavy rain falling across the boroughs of New York, giving 
 more depth to the film noir, and showing that it really is the fall (autumn) . Cutscenes are again 
 delivered through the exquisitely beautiful graphic-novel storyboard format, and the sharp, cold 
 and witty lines combined with superb voice acting give the game an amazing ambience; Firing a 
 gun is a binary choice, you either pull the trigger, or you dont. The music too, most notably 
 the main theme, has improved significantly and is sombre and exciting when required.
  
  There are again dream sequences like the previous game, but this time they are much better, as 
 you can no longer die whilst in the dreams. Again, they form a surreal sideline to the main story, 
 but are still interesting. Aside from the relative shortness of the game, there are very few, if 
 any, major weaknesses. I struggle to think of anything terribly critical to say on the gameplay 
 front. Secondary characters have been developed nicely, notably Mona Sax, who is simply perfect 
 in the role of mysterious femme fatale. There are also a great number of little in-jokes which 
 have been in added, giving some nicely light-hearted moments. The best of these is the television 
 programmes which have returned from the original, but now in longer format with a running plotline 
 themselves; Address Unknown, a thriller about a guy called John Mirra, along with Lords and Ladies, 
 where everyone is either addressed as my Lord! or my Lady!
  
  In essence then, Max Payne 2 is really a film noir love story, just as it was billed. Max is 
 one of the most interesting video game characters ever designed, and playing as him, you can also 
 sense his emotions; a hardened but grief stricken individual. Apart from it being too short, as 
 was its predecessor, this being a minor qualm at best, I sincerely hope that Payne will return 
 for a third instalment some time soon in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viewtifulzfo
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  A breathtaking, original ballet of death
  
  -Computer Gaming World.
  
  I dont think it could have been put a better way than this: Max Payne 2: The Fall of Max Payne 
 is one heck of a video game. Call it a realistic shooting gallery, or whatever else you want, this 
 games grips you and doesnt let go for the full 5 to 8 hours youll be playing it. But what a glorious 
 time it will be.
  
  Coming from the Finnish developers at Remedy, the original Max Payne was an excellent game, combining 
 many of the conventions of the shooter genre at the time with several twists that changed it for 
 the better. First, there was Bullet Time. Yes, that technique made popular by The Matrix found 
 its way into Max Payne, who used it to great effect in killing hordes of crooks, and getting revenge 
 on the people who murdered his family. But BT didnt only look cool; it actually had strategic 
 implication. See, whenever you shoot dodge (BT + any direction) , Max would become invincible, allowing 
 him to dive into a hail of bullets that would kill any normal person. There are many situations 
 that required its use, and as the game got harder, one got more proficient in when to and not to 
 use it. In addition, the games art style and story were straight out of the noir style; it had 
 the ham-fisted acting, and the underlying were not really serious vibe that really gave the 
 game great character. 2001 was a great year, for pretty much any gamer.
  
  In 2003, the sequel came out, continuing the story of Max, who now followed a new love interests 
 who held the answers to his connections and what was really going on behind what happened to his 
 life (which, at the end of the first game !SPOILER! he was absolved of his murder spree, but resigned 
 from the DEA !SPOIRLER END!) . In addition, the graphics have improved tremendously. But what really 
 makes 2 so special is the game play; I dont believe there is a finer shooting experience to date 
 (Half Life 2 is an entirely different kind of game, which exclude it from here) anywhere. Bullet 
 Time becomes a much more visceral experience. Gone are the constant shoot dodges (which did get 
 pretty annoying by the end) ; walking around in BT is the new fad. Slowing down time is now the 
 way to dodge bullets, avoid enemies, and takes the new villains down. The graphics only add to 
 this feel. Think of a John Woo movie on steroids; the environment are interactive, as boxes fly, 
 things explode, and human carcasses smack against walls. Headshots show instant rag dolls, as the 
 victims head whips back and the recipient basically flies. Its not all that terribly realistic, 
 but man it sure does look great. And its fun. Every gun shot, every object, makes a sound during 
 the firefights that only adds to this unbelivable, intense experience. Without the atmosphere, 
 it probably wouldnt be as good, as that is part of the games appeal. It just feels so natural 
 and intuitive to use BT. Still, youre not invincible, and you can use invincibility cheat too 
 if you just want to blow through it.
  
  However, the modding community has extended the life of this game; check out the different mods 
 out for this and see what I mean. From Matrix inspired graphics, to Equilibrium, to a new Street 
 Fighter mod  they really changed the way it looks and plays while still retaining the great game 
 play and visceral violence.
  
  Really, if theres one game everyone needs, its this. Max Payne 2 has it all: story, game play, 
 graphics (which have aged particularly well) , and great mods to extend its value. Pick it up for 
 the PC; you wont be disappointed. It truly is a perfect game in every sense (maybe not at release, 
 but definitely now) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viggggo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 21, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  I have never been the kind of guy who played a lot of these type of shooting-games. I liked Goldeneye 
 for N64, but never since that, have I played a shooting-game like that, and really had that special 
 feeling. Not until now, I can say, because Max Payne 2 is really great. Actually the hole Max Payne-series 
 is great, but this one was the first one i played. It has it all, great environments, great history-part, 
 a bad-guys you really wanna shoot. As the reviewer said, the steering is good.
  My advice is go buy the game, their is many great hours of fun in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alkku94
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 18, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  Great Action game! Remedy have made great gaming series. Game has got good graphics and great sounds. 
 Special points come from great movies while playing the game. Gun firing and yelling Grenade! Run! 
 thats great! Even the game play is fine but there isn't anymore those bats which were in first 
 game of this series. Missions are playable but those dreams are stupid and and couple of chapters 
 are wasted to them. Max Payne 2: The Fall Of Max Payne is Magnificent game as a action shooter 
 and instant classic.
  I think the Max Payne games are The Rising Star Of Action Games.
  
  Points:
  93/100 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HardBoiledGamer
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne is the first best third person shooter I've ever played on PC and it was great...... I 
 can even say that this is better than GTA, but not Scarface. Anyways, I've haven't played Max Payne 
 1 and I don't plan to, but the story for the sequel is excellent. The graphics are great since 
 the gun physics, shape and appearance looks very real, you can also see the bullet shells flying 
 out of your gun everytime you fire. The sounds make this game even more realistic.. as if this was 
 a John Woo based game.... even though it isn't. Max Payne 2 is a great game to buy (not rent.... BUY!) 
 and now it's not that expensive to get at your local video game shop. One story short........ GET 
 IT NOW!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: puch_emil
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Once i started to play the first Max Payne i thought the story was the best ive ever seen. I have 
 played Max Payne 2 for a long time now. It NEVER gets boring. I've got a cousin who's the best 
 in the world on this game BTW ^^. This was simply the best game i've played. Nothing is as good 
 as this game. Its everything you want it to be. I have never played anything as good as this. Alot 
 of people o know think The game Mafia has better story. But i think thats really wrong :P. I strongly 
 recommend this game. And i hope sometime in the future they will do a movie based on this game 
 =) . Thats all i think =) . If you havent played the game. DO IT! NO dissapointments =) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hutapamo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 13, 2007 7:48 am PT
Review:  Max Payne Two The Fall Of Max Payne is quite cool, but I do not really like it. The story line 
 is good. The action terrific, characters good, But there is still something missing that I cannot 
 seem to find out. I have not finished the game, this is a hard game it is a game where you have 
 to think quite alot, and parts of the game are really, really hard. The game is not that bad. Max 
 Payne 3 better be good. I am sure there are some people who dont agree with me but, this is my 
 point of few. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filaria
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  Max Payne 2 defines action, fast paced, aweinspiring, jaw dropping raw action. From the beginning till 
 the end, the game is very engrossing. This game is totally unique and one of a kind, no cliches or 
 stuff like that. The story is great. The comic book like cutscenes are not as bad as one might have 
 come across in need for speed underground 2. New features like bullet time aid 2 add a lot to the 
 game. Though I still dont find shootdodge useful to any extent since I have completed the game in 
 all difficulties and unlocked the new ending in which........... play it urself and yes no cheats 
 were used whatsoever I can assure u. In the first instant one may find MP2 very difficult, it appears 
 to be so untill u come across the wonder and beauty of bullet time aid 2. This game is actually 
 easy, yes it's true. that's outrageous u say, well...... believe it. The graphics are excellant. The 
 audio: tooooo coool, especially with a 5.1 speaker setup. The dynamic lighting is phenomenal of course 
 u'll need a graphics card with pixel shader 1.4 or greater hardware support for better lighting. The 
 rag doll physics, mindblowingly well done. There are many destructive environments that most games 
 used to lack. The story is good though there are chances u might get confused with the storyline. Each 
 level is different from the the other, though u will be returning to similar places again n again 
 yet the new ambience sets up a whole different feeling. U WILL NOT GET BORED WHILE PLAYING THIS 
 GAME. Situations will arise where u will come across 10+ enemies but use the BT aid whenever u can. There 
 are some very challenging level (s) like the one in which u gotta protect vinnie gognitti or Mona 
 Sax trying to protect Max Payne with a sniper. Oh yeah..... u can play as Mona Sax in three-four 
 occasions. There are some levels that do not involve shooting but just going through just for the 
 sake of the story. The post-proccessing effects are way cool, the stylish 360 degree reloading, the 
 jumping from ledge to ledge or balancing on steel girders are some very stylish moments. The weapons 
 are pretty good though it might have done much better with a rocket launcher and some vehicles. The 
 last part of the game involving Vlad was the finest part of the game, I could have thought of no 
 better ending myself, no other ending would have fitted half as well as the finale. U wouldn't find 
 this game lacking in much. Yes, it's a game of 2003, yes, it's not next-gen but nevertheless this 
 game is WICKEDLY cool not to mention the dead man walking mode. This is a must play game for anyone, no 
 excuses people. Definitely, Rockstars' best. Duuno what the hell happened to Max Payne 3, it's almost 
 3 years now? One of the best endings ever.... not like ahem (H2) . The system of painkillers in place 
 of health packs is also quite fresh. The last two levels didnt work as smoothly as I expected them 
 to. Also gotta love the scavenging for ammo and new weapons in the levels, which does make the game 
 still interesting. Finally Max Payne 2 is has very interactive stuff lying around in the levels 
 that reveal many ... ahem... dialogues like in the TV or news reports etc. etc. etc.
  ........... video games kill people...... :-a lady officer in MP2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squal_117
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 28, 2006 11:21 pm PT
Review:  You get the feeling that you're one of those movie characters that never get hit and kill them 
 all.
  The game story is maybe greater than the first time though it's not much long, you get in exchange 
 great quality and a replay options for a bigger challenge. It's also filled with great realistic 
 off-story speeches that gives more reality to the game's environment.
  The graphics details are pretty great, you can even see the bullets fired when you're in bullet 
 time though you can't do a thing to stop them.
  Bullet time is what makes it different from many other shooting-based games, you ca get all your 
 foes with head shots before they can even aim at you, then reload just as fast as you shoot your 
 guns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prince_elad_69
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 23, 2006 8:34 am PT
Review:  this game wich is even better than the first take you to another world of Max Payne and makes you 
 to dry your eye from happiness a second time
  
  GRAPHICS: the graphics in this game is amazing and at the first level of the game you will jump 
 in the air from joy snap out of it and than you will countiniou playing
  
  SOUND: another leage sound from max payne and really good too...
  
  GAMEPLAY: the amazing gameplay 
 from the first game comes back to the second max payne and ecen better this time wich in one level 
 they will give you a mission to protect vinnie wich is stuck insyde a doll that can explode any 
 time so you will go to mona sax to dismental the bomb but the commandoes wont dive you and the 
 surprising andind (in th end) in amazing ans will make to open your mouth and not close it untill 
 you will kill the last boss wich if you already played the game you should alreeady know and there 
 is olso levels were you play as mona sax wich is not that special because she has the same... abilities 
 like max... but i like max better because you cant take off the cloudes of mona and make her run 
 around a dead body nude... that made me mad and sad in the same minute
  
  anyway this game is a second gift from god and a good game from remady siems like remedy has a 
 gift in making good games
  
  BUY BUY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UbAdm
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 7, 2006 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne 2: The Fall of Max Payne is a tragic Film Noir love story set in the night of New York 
 City.
  
  The game picks up from where the origional Max Payne left off. Which every good sequel should do. 
 This time you're not out on revenge. You've been dragged into a gang-war between Vinni Gognitti, 
 Vladimir Lem and The Inner Circle. Why? You've fallen in love again, this time with a criminal. 
 (A woman by the way, not a man, you sick person) .
  
  I'll be honest. The first time i played the game i wasn't very impressed. All the features from 
 the first Max Payne are still there, bullet time, shootdodge etc... That was until you kill the 
 first enemy, it goes into a cinematic-type camera, showing him fall backwards onto a hospital table. 
 I was very impressed, the interactive enviroments and ragdolls physics were well-implemented into 
 the game. It then became a case of not waiting to pick off your next enemy just too see him go 
 all floppy and fall over.
  
  The graphics were improved on much. Soft (ish) lighting made the game look very nice. The character 
 models were quite well-polished in my opinion, though sometimes in cut-scenes it looked like Max 
 had a watermelon shaped head. Maybe it was his hair or something.
  
  The storyline for this game is much more dramatic and emotional than the first. I can't really 
 go into the story, as i will give spoilers away to people who haven't played this game. Even though 
 it's been released for over 3 years.
  
  I don't usually talk about mods in my reviews, but Max Payne 2 has some great ones. Some real gems 
 such as the Cinema Mod and The Punisher. They can add a fresh breath of life into the game and 
 stop it from going stale after you've completed it on all the difficulties.
  
  To round this all up. I'll say that you won't be disappointed if you fell in love with the origional 
 Max Payne like i did. If you didn't, you might be disappointed by the slightly dated graphics. 
 The game is really directed towards older gamers (16+ in my opinion) the story might be hard to 
 pick up, and there is alot of swearing in the game. So if you've got a mom or dad that is strict 
 about that stuff. I would stay away.
  
  The game is very cheap, considering it's age. You can pick it up at Gameplay. co. uk for &pound;7.99.
 
  
  Hope you enjoyed my review.
  Thanks for reading.
  
  
  -Ub 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perfection1000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 1, 2006 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne 2 is an amazing game. It showcases some of the best visuals, sound and presentation but 
 on top of that it jus a seriously awesome action game. On its own merits, it's a stunning shooter 
 that's got a fantastic plot and is over too soon, though it's still incredibly intense and definitely 
 worth experiencing. Max Payne 2 is sequel to the original and picks up after the events of that 
 game. Max, now a detective once again has his hands full as he finds himself attached to the lovely 
 Mona Sax. She is also a murder suspect.
  
  Max can point and shoot, and if he didnt have the ability to slow down time, he'd be a pretty 
 boring character to play. Bullet time is different now and, for better or worse, the shoot dodge 
 has been less emphasized. Bullet time meter not only regenerates, but it turns from white to yellow. 
 As this happens, time moves even slower while Max moves even faster. It also has a lot of different 
 weapons in the game but some of them would be your go to go weapon throughout the game. Youll 
 find Ingrams, shotguns, pistols and of course the infamous M4 and AK-47s. Youll also find sniper 
 rifles in the game as well but since most of the combat occurs in close quarters they dont really 
 prove useful.
  
  Max Payne 2 looks extremely impressive. The razor-sharp maps, the excellent special effects and 
 animation, and the incredibly detailed environments that are the stars of Max Payne 2s visuals. 
 The bullet time effects look great while shooting you can even see your bullets flying. Theres 
 also plenty of blood during the firefights. All in all, Max Payne 2 looks simply outstanding. Despite 
 some of the mundane settings in the games world, you can expect to see some very unusual and interesting 
 places and characters during the game.
  
  Max Payne 2 sounds fantastic. The sound of bullet time is just remarkable. The rush of air and 
 the sound of Max's heart pounding are some of the effects. The weapon effects are very loud and 
 clear. Some of more powerful weapons in the game will really make you feel satisfied when theyll 
 just kill your enemies in a flash. The game's soundtrack is outstanding. It really fits the action 
 and changes as youre moving through the games levels. The game is also pretty short. It will take 
 you about 10 hours or-so to finish but once you finish it you unlock new difficulty and modes like 
 New Yok Minute which will give you few seconds to get through the level but you gain more time 
 by killing your enemies.
  
  Max Payne 2 is an amazing achievement that delivers some of the most intense moments found in any 
 game. It has fantastic visual, superb sound and presentation but its the action that makes it 
 so great. Its not revolutionary or anything but dont let that make you assume that it cant be 
 one of the best action games ever made. If you are a fan of shooter youll definitely find Max 
 Payne 2 to be an amazing experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yo_foo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 25, 2006 10:34 pm PT
Review:  I was expecting the worst for this game. However I was surprised by the gripping love story of 
 the game. A shooter with a strong love story, I haven't seen too many of them for a long time. 
 But it worked and is a worthy addition to the Max Payne Franchise.
  
  The game plays like the first Max Payne and follows after the first, so if you haven't played the 
 first one - don't worry because nothing is missed for this game, but it does enhance your gaming 
 experience for this game. The bullet time is back and is just as helpful as ever. I found this 
 game a lot harder than the first but just as atmospheric and immersive as the first. The game story 
 is again told by comic book and wonderfully narrated by Max Payne. The voice over cast is sensational 
 once again and all voice clips aren't excruciatingly repetitive like the first.
  
  The graphics are an amazing update from the first game and are realistic for that time. The character 
 models are sensational and the comic art is just sensational. The game once again has very limited 
 life but this is usually the case with all games however it is enjoyable throughout.
  
  Not as good as the first but solid and without a doubt exceptional. You'd be hard pressed to find 
 a better game than this available now.
  
  :' ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DREU66
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  Max Payne 2 is a great sequel of the original game. It let you feel the same experiences you got 
 in the original but also you can play whit the fantastic Mona Sax. Mona Sax is the perfect complement 
 of the ironic Max Payne, older and more sarcastic this time. Playing whit Mona you can take another 
 view of the game. She is as dangerous as Max Payne but she is elegant killing her enemies.
  
  I recommend this sequel. If you liked Max Payne also you like Max Payne 2. Its the same game 
 you loose the surprising of the original but its a very solid game, which you will enjoy as much 
 as you have enjoyed whit the original 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hittin
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 2, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  Max Payne 2 Review
  
  Introduction
  In this review, I will be reviewing Max Payne 2 for PC. I just recently got Max Payne 2, and I 
 love it, its a must for action/adventure fans.
  
  Review
  Max Payne 2 is a brilliant game. If you played the first Max Payne, youll understand this one 
 even more, but if didnt play Max Payne, no worries, you dont really need to know something from 
 Max Payne to finish this game.
  The story in Max Payne 2 is fantastic, the words chosen for the comic strip style story line is 
 fantastic, and there are loads of times where there are surprises in the story, which doesnt happen 
 a lot, as most action games are good guy kills bad guy, because bad guy has killed good guys family. 
 This game obviously has some elements of that, as someone has murdered Maxs wife and daughter. 
 But then the story is different, you have to find out about other stuff to even come close to finding 
 out who killed Maxs family. There are also other twists, which I wont reveal because it will 
 ruin your experience.
  The gameplay is amazing, truly the best aspect of this game, as the gameplay is so varied, and 
 the guns are fantastic, its FPS, but not. As youre not in first person. The enemies are tough, 
 but realistic, youre not going to kill someone with 1 9mm pistol shot in their stomach in this 
 game, the more you battle and try to kill, the more chance you have of dying, which is why combat 
 is so varied in this game, at times you want to kill people with guns, and at times, you just cant, 
 or youll be blown to pieces.
  I think this games graphics are excellent, some of the doors and chairs look real life, and Im 
 glad you dont get the first person view in this game, the graphics would look different and not 
 so great, the graphics contribute a lot to this game, to the realism feel.
  
  Conclusion
  Get this game, its not expensive, its a must have for anyone; youll have an amazing adventure 
 in this game. Max Payne 2 is a fantastic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mcrfan44
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 1, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  The story in Max Payne 2 starts off right after the first one with Max as a detective for the NYPD. 
 But of course Max cant be a regular detective, he has to get mixed up in some things that could 
 end up killing him. Without spoiling the story lets just say that theres lots of betrayal, twists, 
 and action, just what youd expect. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The gameplay in Max Payne 2 is essentially the same as the first. Theres lots of shooting, blowing 
 things up, and killing thats all tied together with an awesome plot. There are a few additions 
 like being able to play as Mona on some missions and a few choices throughout the levels. One thing 
 good about the gameplay in Max 2 is that the dream sequences have been made different. Theyre 
 not as frustrating as the first Max. And of course, you still have the shoot dodge (think Matrix 
 style dodging) and bullet time (slowing down time) which make the game a lot more fun than your 
 average first person shooter.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
 The graphics still hold up pretty nicely. Dont expect a Doom 3, but for being made in 2003, it 
 still looks very good. Theres also a lot of detail in Max 2. You can open almost anything with 
 drawers, interact with most objects, and do certain things that effect the environment. Also, instead 
 of in game movies (there are a few) most of the plot is explained graphic novel style which looks 
 very nice and fits the noir-crime style the game has.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  The 
 sound in Max 2 is excellent. From the voice acting (same actors from the first) down to the sound 
 effects and the back round music, everything fits the situation your in. If your shooting like 
 crazy, you get fast paced music. If your watching a sad part of the story occur, then you get soft 
 music.
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  The 
 value is one of the most important things about this game. I bought it for $3.99, new, at a discount/closeout 
 store, which is an insane price for a game of this caliber. Basically, if youre a fan of third-person 
 shooters or enjoy crime/noir style things, there is no reason you should not own this game.
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Overall, 
 this is an excellent game that I enjoyed very much. The story/plot is much better than your typical 
 shooter and it moves the game along at a fast pace. If you dont own this game, I would seriously 
 recommend picking it up, especially for the price it is now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CruZer_69
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 25, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  The game has an amazing range in arsenal. From Dual Berratas to Pump - Action Shotguns to Dragunov 
 sniper rifles. You play a Cop called Max Payne investigating Cleanars from the squeky cleaning 
 company. As you move on the plot unfolds and Max is trapped between a choice. As in the previous 
 Max Payne, there is something called Bullettime - someting which lets you go slow motion and helps 
 yo kill your enemies and dodge the bullets easier. But now Max doesn't put on a stupid face on 
 everytime he shoots. And as you go into bullettime you go into a black and white picture which 
 i think is known as the noir mode. You also get a taste ass Mona later on in the game which is 
 not much differnt from Max, apart from the shootdodge is different.
  
  Overall I think it's a great game and anyone who likes the first one will love this one. You can 
 also download very good mods for it. : D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wibles
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 17, 2006 1:41 am PT
Review:  It seems I am somewhat isolated in my view that this game is just too similar to the original MP 
 to have any long-lasting appeal. That game was ground breaking in its ability to portray reality 
 on screen, but this is, at best just an upgrade to MP1 with a few more twists.
  
  The graphics are still its enduring feature and the gameplay is entertaining extending from simple 
 exploration to extreme gun fights.
  
  It's probably excellent assuming you haven't even looked at the original. I played it for a week 
 or so and it was interesting, hence the score of 7.2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_mighty_boos
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 4, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  Ignore what you may have heard about this game being short and simple. True, it is short and it 
 is simple, but sometimes less is more. This game will probably only take you about 6 hours to complete, 
 but because it is such a great game, you will most definetely play through it again. I have personally 
 played through it on each difficulty and then played it again, it really is that fun. The combat 
 is the best I have found in a 3rd person shooter, by far, as there is a real feeling of connection. 
 The graphics are amazingly detailed and realistic.
  
  The Good - Kinetic shooting action - Detailed and impressive graphics - Tons of replayability
 
  
  The Bad - Short single player - No multiplayer - If you hate noir, you'll hate this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LonnieMitchell
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 11, 2006 8:30 am PT
Review:  This game literally picks up right after the end of the first game. It provides for some closure 
 of some items that were left open in the original and continues the life of Max Payne. This game 
 is essentially the same as the first game. There are no leaps forward in game engine, game play, 
 or anything else. However, the game still works. While I wasn't the biggest fan of the first game, 
 it was still worth a play in order to take up a Saturday afternoon. I enjoyed this game both more 
 and less than the original. In some ways this game was a bit more involved than the original, but 
 the drawback was that it was the exact same as the original, only with a plot taking place after 
 the events of the original game. I would recommend checking out the original game, and if you enjoy 
 it then check this one out as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Defender_502
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  In Max Payne 2: The Fall of Max Payne, the player assumes the role of Max Payne, a police detective 
 who is under suspicion for a crime he didn't commit. This game sported all the drama and intrigue 
 of a Sam Spade true crime novel.
  
  Throughout the game, Max Payne must endure police interrogations and near-constant gun battles 
 with the mob. During these shoot-outs, the bullet time capability from the first game is available, 
 which effectively slows all action on the screen down, and provides the player with the ability 
 to accurately engage multiple enemies while leaping through the air with his trench coat flapping 
 &agrave; la Chow Yun-Fat in a John Woo picture.
  
  In addition to controlling Max's movement in bullet time, the player also had to contend with Max's 
 sluggish behavior when he was drugged during the game, which happened quite often. When Max was 
 drugged, he would hallucinate. This was effectively conveyed in the game through swirling images 
 and sluggish controls. The effect was disorienting to say the least.
  
  Max had a variety of weapons at his disposal, mostly acquired off the corpses of his foes. He certainly 
 needed all the firepower he could find, with all the enemies he faced.
  
  As noted earlier, Max Payne 2: The Fall of Max Payne played like a true crime novel. Each level 
 was essentially a chapter of Max's life, and each chapter brought him one step closer to the truth.
 
  
  In the end, Max Payne 2: The Fall of Max Payne was a thoroughly satisfying game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sangoanuta
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 24, 2007 12:51 am PT
Review:  Max Payne 2 has a great, i mean, great storyline!
  It's just the way all games stories should be.
  
  A nice storyline that develops really nice 
 (better if you had played the previous title, that's it's good, not as good but still good) through 
 the game.
  
  The level designs are really good, the physics, and the somehow clumsy interactiveness with the 
 environment were good new implementations at the time.
  
  The graphics are still good, there are many games that even today don't match Max Payne 2's level 
 when it comes to graphics.
  
  It's like i always says, all a game needs to be successful it's to be done carefully.
  
  That's 
 it, if you're new on the gaming world you should play this old title.
  
  If you're old but just did not cared much, you should reconsider.
  
  Max Payne 2 is the real 
 deal.
  And let's hope the best for Max Payne 3.
  
  So long people... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acurban
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2006 1:05 am PT
Review:  What a great story done in a great format! I loved Max Payne 1 so much, I ran right out and purchased 
 Max Payne 2. THe creators of this game brought a real film Noir feel to this game. the atmosphere 
 is as thick as pea soup. If you like First person shooters like Doom, etc , then you should enjoy 
 this even more. The graphic novel approach is.. we;;. novel!. ha ha pardon my pun. I wish everyone 
 could try this game to swee what they think. sure there are probably better games but this is a 
 solid addition to anyones game cabinet. The action is fast and didnt oveload my PC with graphics. 
 I love the way the sory develops and the action gets hairy. my recommendation?? BUY IT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FeDeXeP
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2006 11:05 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne 2 is the best game ive ever play, his graphics, story, sounds, bullet time, weapons, and many 
 lots of more things. the game is short but Take-Two say that a Max Payne 3 (i cant wait) its coming 
 to the world, but now lets see MP2.
  The graphics are really good ones, the models are great, and the physical motor HAVOK, makes the graphics 
 themes AWESOME. The sounds are not too realistic but there are great, some of the sounds are from 
 the original MP, like the footsteps. The story is super, but im not gonna tell it, its very good and 
 its better that you find it without help. The bullettime is now more easy to use, and reload inside 
 BT max looks athletic .The weapons go from a 9mm pistol to a ak-47, and very nice every one, all 
 the weapons got his advantages and disadvantages, and thats make it very realistic.
  
  This game is the best ive ever played (i say it again) , you really like this game (Rockstar make it, obviesly 
 this game rocks) .
  
  Ok, enjoy this GREAT game.
  
  If I write something wrong, its because im from Argentina and I can't speak english very well. Cyas 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adams95
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 17, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  Max Payne 2 is a direct sequel to its predecessor Max Payne which was released in 2001. Max Payne 
 2s story is told in the same way as the first did in a comic style. Max, now a detective and wearier 
 than ever of the world, once again has his hands full as he finds himself hopelessly attached to 
 Mona Sax, a murder suspect and part of a bigger plot that ties in to Max's own dark past. Max Payne 
 plays very much like the first game in the series, with the bullet time which slows down time and 
 gives the player an advantage over the enemies. Not only can you slow down time but also dive to 
 dodge enemy fire while shooting. This is mostly what makes Max Payne so great. There is one improvement 
 to the game play where you can have a melee weapon as well as a gun to use at the same time. These 
 melee weapons are grenades, Molotov Cocktails or just hitting enemies with the weapon you have 
 equipped. The graphics have improved a lot from the first game, the character models in particular 
 look brilliant. The game also has accurately modelled guns and great rain effects too. Max Payne 
 2 also has very good physics like chairs, stools, cardboard boxes can be knocked over in the middle 
 of a shootout which is really cool. Max Payne 2 also uses rag doll physics so when a bad guy is 
 killed he will flop over. The games sound is about as good as it was in the first game very good 
 sound effects, but the highlight of the sound is the music and voice acting which are both very 
 well done. PS2 owners are again getting the worst version of Max Payne, the graphics have been 
 watered down a lot, I saw big squares on the walls like from the PS1. Max Payne 2 as you probably 
 already know isnt the longest game out there, it took me around 8 hours to finish on the first 
 play through. Although for the PC version there are some mods which can be downloaded, this gives 
 the game a little bit more replay value. Max Payne 2 is certainly worth a buy but dont go into 
 it expecting a really long game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brad11344
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 14, 2006 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Max payne 2 is a cool ass game, you play as a dectective and you have some mental issues and you 
 get these dreams of were u play in the dream and its just a really cool game GAMEPLY: The game 
 play is verry realitic like if u bump into a barrel it wil move or get knocked over, and you can 
 flush toilets and use sinks lol Graphics: the graphics are unbelieveable, I just cant really explain 
 how they are its just something u would see on an xbox 360.
  
  Sound: sound is excellant when your out side u can hear the rain dripping and hear the workers 
 downstairs just a wicked game
  
  OVERALL: If u see this game for under $30 (which the highest i think is $20) you have to get this 
 game!! it is pure fun but it goes by kinda fast but not that bad just pure fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muppen
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 29, 2006 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne 2 is without a doubt one of the best games I have ever played. And I have played alot 
 of games. The storyline in Max Payne 2 is simply awesome, it's very interesting and the comic-book 
 style cut-scenes combined with Max Payne narrating in true film-noir manors keeps you as a gamer 
 glued to your monitor.
  
  One cool thing I noticed when I first started up the game was a feature called previously... . 
 If you click it, Max will tell you what happened in his life and you get remined why he is where 
 he is now. The game is full of memorable quotes and bullet-time 2.0 really adds the hot spice to 
 the action sequences. Gunfights in general are very entertaining with the ragdoll physics; throw 
 a grenade, go into bullet-time and watch your enemy (and eventually nearby objects) fly all around 
 the room. If you liked Max Payne you will love Max Payne 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sat_purush
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 4, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  A must have for any pc gamer. A dark, gritty, comic book feel, with great action and bullet time.
 
  This game is a blast! Despite its age, it is still one of the better games out. The story is great 
 and comic book fans will find the cutscenes entertaining.
  
  The gameplay is great, bullet time is always fun, and the game has a good amount of replayability. 
 I have beat very few of the actual games I own , but this is one I couldn't stop playing.
  
  Plus the random flashback, trauma/drug induced hazes are fun: playing it late at night and 
 suddenly there I was in some level dripping blood and this random lattice of bloodlines stretching 
 out over an abyss, with babies crying in the background.... nice and creepy
  
  buy this game if you see it in bargain bin, should cost next to nothing these days 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ROCKA321
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 2, 2006 10:18 pm PT
Review:  You are Max Payne, a hard boiled new york cop with nothing to lose. Sound familiar? Not exactly 
 surprising as this game tends to fall into one of the biggest movie stereotypes around. But its 
 how it feeds off this premise that makes the game outstanding. GAMEPLAY: Max Payne 2 uses the exact 
 same style of gameplay as its predecessor, and this is to its strength, as Max Paynes bullet time 
 system was at the time, revolutionary. The gunplay is very solid, each gun feels right and works 
 well for different situations. There is a few platforming sequences here and there, but they arnt 
 very frustrating and mix up the action decently. So if you have played the first game, you know 
 what you are in for here, but if you havent, prepare for a experience unique to pretty much anything 
 you have played.
  
  Graphics: This game doesnt use any high tech "Source" or "Unreal" engine. But the game features 
 slick graphics with textures that while not as impressive as games such as half life 2, look very 
 crisp and well suited.
  
  Sound: The game features a impressive musical score, you will often find yourself humming the games 
 main theme. Gun sounds are equally as impressive, each gun sounds unique and powerful. But the 
 greatest thing about the sound is the amazing voice acting, its better the most anything you have 
 experienced in a video game, Max Paynes narrative fits the game so well that you simply will be 
 in awe.
  
  Value: The game isnt especially long, but as you can find it for 20 dollars or less these days, 
 its very well worth it. Plus its just one of those games you will want to play over and over again. 
 To further the replay value, the game features multiple difficultys and even a secret ending to 
 unlock. It also features a arena type mode where you see how long you can last against a unlimited 
 wave of enemies.
  
  In the end, Max Payne 2 is a thrill ride that simply should not be missed by any fans of action 
 games, or anyone looking for a great and compelling story in a video game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 26, 2006 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne 2, is a huge improvement since Max Payen.
  
  The GOOD: Good improvement since the first game, althought the game play is the same. Awesom graphics 
 and sound makes the game so real and the story keeps you glued and addicted till the end. There 
 are lvels now where you have to use a bit of tactics, improved since the first game, the story 
 line just becomes better. Good shooting sequences that gives you the feel that your ina action 
 movie. Better use of bullet time andnow bullet time regenerates, because of this there are new 
 additions to the game that give out more challenges.
  
  The BAD: You revisit several places, over and over, cause it's part of the story, but some may 
 find this boring. The games pretty easy, it would have been good if the othere difficulty levels 
 were unlocked at the start of the game. The games all about shooting, other that some puzzling 
 areas where you have to find your way out of. The games a bit short.
  
  Overall this game is one of the best sequels that I have played, for a game that came out in 2003 
 it give you the best there is in a action shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrfidget
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 28, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  The first time I passed MP2 was when I was 8 or 9 (I'm pretty sure it wasn't rated E) . I loved that 
 game. After playing MP1, which I thought would be better, I didn't anymore. I LIKE THE SEQUEL BETTER. 
 Max Payne 2 is a must buy for anyone with a soul and a computer. The cutscenes are amazing!!! I 
 also found a way to die in a dream.... In the police station dream, to kill yourself, keep jumping 
 down the stairs near Bravura (bloodied)
  and after 3 or 4 or 5 tries you died! YAAAY!
  Graphics:9.9 simply amazing
  Sound:10 If you have something bad to say about the sound, I will 
 punch you.
  Gameplay:9.4 A little linear! I hope MP3 has bigger environments!
  What it needs is multiplayer. Yes, that would be nice....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mac631
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 19, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  This is just a simply MASTERPIECE!!! Just a superb game!!! Outstanding theme music (well, it is 
 a bit sad) , great romantic story between Max and Mona, prefect gameplay.... i played many similar 
 action-adventure game like Mafia, GTA, blah blah... but max payne still great and even better than 
 Mafia! Max payne 2 worth to buy since its length is a bit short.... but i dun think that i will 
 play it again, again and again....... I think max payne can a bit longer like Mafia, then max payne 
 2 is prefect. i exciting to wait the release of max payne 3 but it seems doesn't release any news 
 about the max payne 3....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alliedally
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 17, 2006 7:00 am PT
Review:  I missed this game when it first came out for some reason (too engaged with FarCry or Mafia??) , 
 but picked it up a couple weeks ago for $10.
  
  Better late than never.
  
  I'm only a few chapters into the game but already love it -- the sympathetic main character (the 
 bravado is back, along with the delusions) , the hot love interest (s) , the mysterious and dramatic 
 story, the challenging battles (with a host of enemies including the mob) ... and the graphics are 
 top-notch.
  
  I loved the first Max Payne but this may be better. 
  
  I see that a Max Payne 3 is in the works... this time I won't wait so long to pick it up.
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: surag198
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 8, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  This is an excellent game that draws you in from beginning to the end.
  
  Mainly, the story is enthralling, after a while you feel like you've seen this before and it slightly 
 becomes repetitive. However, this is only for a short while, and the action packed pace makes up 
 for its slightly hackneyed plot. Granted there's a decent surprise in the end but still...
  The characters are truly amazing. You meet so many and work with so many that the game gets really 
 immersive. At the same time, the levels and areas you enter are so varied that it never gets tiring. 
 I was really surprised at the amount of unique stylinging and structuring of each level.
  The gameplay is much the same as the first version and on that note, while i never played it, I 
 still enjoyed the second game immensly. However, I suspect that players of Max Payne will find 
 this game a lot like the first one.
  With bullet time, several guns and the opportunities to lunge forwards, backwards, sideways and 
 move at several paces, you feel truly like your character. Also, the movements are well done, and 
 camera movement and other aspects are made with the player in mind.
  
  Unfortunately at the end it felt like all was for naught. Whie I was entertained throughout my 
 play, I felt that near the end the replay value was low and hte game was slightly linear. You basically 
 go through each level blazing down the bad guys and the cartoon cut scenes (with a few actual animated 
 ones) sort of slow it down and make you want to rush by them since its all text. Its nothing spectacular, 
 but definately entertaining.
  Graphics is outstanding, with excellent ragdoll physics, (i believe this was one of the first games 
 to apply it) and great rendering, the game stands out considering it was made in 2003. 
  
  Sound is great as well but the game doesnt require much since you tend to know where the fighitng 
 is. However, character voices are well done, and standing in the corner listening in on others 
 is extremely entertaining 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bpmf
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 7, 2006 8:02 pm PT
Review:  ' Max Payne 2 ' is the second part of the game that developed by Remedy and published by Rockstar 
 Games.
  ' Max Payne 2 ' is the continue game of Max Payne , the big action game of 2001.
  also now you gonna play with the character Max Payne with his amazing time bullet.
  like most 
 of us seen at the the previous game Max Payne revenged the killer of his family and been captured 
 by the police.
  in Max Payne 2 a man named Alfred wooden get Max back to the forces of N. Y. P. D .
  but Max still 
 have bad wounds and nightmares from the last chapter.
  all what keeping him alive is his love to the hot Mona Sex. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 483paul
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 1, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  If you were a fan of the first max payne you will get a kick outa this one.
  In the max payne series you play a cop who is on a renegade. Your one and only mission is to find 
 out who murdered your wife and child. The sequel... well.... you have your job back and now doing 
 what max payne does. Killing people.
  
  The story is great, and a little hard to follow. If you understodd the first max payne and all 
 the plots you will have no problem understanding this one. I for one have a hard time following 
 the story line. However thats not why i play the game. I play the game to blow s*** up. Max Payne 
 2 delivers this greatly.
  
  Bullet Time has been updated. Now as you enter in bullet time the more you kill the slower time 
 goes. Basically you can have bullet time last entire shoot out and you can see the carnage you 
 caused. Its a very nice effect.
  In MP2 i find myself not using the leap in bullet time as much. Standing in a room in bullet time 
 is effective enough.
  
  The graphics have been updated greatly. Max doesn't look the same though. I believe they used the 
 same voice actor for the character.
  
  I'm not sure why i'm wrting a review for this game. If you have played max payne than you shouldn't 
 be reading this you should be playing max payne 2.
  
  When you beat the game you unlock a arena. This is where you see how long you can last going up 
 against spawning bots. This is a cool feature that can entertain you for some time.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vorlon92
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 26, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  the gritty, hard, max payne is back at it again. with improved graphics, better sound, and the 
 same great gameplay and bullet time. The game is a bit short, but this can be addressed by downloading 
 any the available new content for new levels, mods, etc. 
  
  the max payne games are just fun games. this game is available in bargain bins for $6 and less. 
 if you don't own it , you should definitely pick it up. 
  
  The ai is much better in this one, I was fighting some cleaners in warehouse and shooting at them 
 as they came in a door at me, a couple of them got behind some boxes and started pushing the boxes 
 towards me using them as a shield to get close, meanwhile their buddies sniped at me from the door. 
 awesome
  
  bring on max payne 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyshinigami
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 20, 2006 8:51 am PT
Review:  The game was made with the same engine as Half Life 2 (Havoc engine) which is an incredible thing. The 
 ragdolls looks so real. The graphics and textures are great but incredibly it doesnt lag on my low 
 performance pc.
  The best thing in this game is the bullet time. You can easily see bullets moving all over you and 
 evade them all coz they became slow as hell (except bullets that shot by you) . The shootdodge moves 
 also helps alot.
  The boring part is the final boss fight, it was nothing at all and too easy.
  And the worst part 
 of this game is its too short. But luckily its not as short as Half Life 2 Episode One^^. But the 
 storyline covers everything and the mod community all over the net makes the game fresh and not 
 too boring for me.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fahim_zak
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 18, 2006 8:47 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY - Gameplay in Max Payne 2 : The Fall Of Max Payne is more or less the same as in the original. But 
 Max is now much stronger and faster.
  He wont die every now and then. To help you ought you still have theBULLET TIME". This is probably 
 the most strongest appeal for Max Payne games. Bullet time is also much more fun this time around. It 
 has a grim feel to it. You can alsoDODGE" bullets now. There is a wide range of realistic weapons 
 thus adding to realism in the game.
  Also this time its much more difficult as the enemies are much more smarter. They hide for covers 
 and attack in groups.
  In order to have replay value there are different settings likeHARD - BOILED", DETECTIVE, NEW 
 YORK MINUTE , DEAD MAN ALIVE... Each of which are fun.
  All in all the Gameplay is pretty decent but what makes it different from other action games is 
 theBULLET TIME" which makes the game just freaking awesome.
  
  GRAPHICS - When compared to the original Max Payne this game has been massively upgraded with more 
 detailed characters and environments.
  The new Ragdoll physics has also been added which is just superbly done.
  The textures are just 
 brilliant and particle effects are too good.
  Although the characters may look repetative, environments are not.
  Adding to the brilliant graphics 
 is once again theBULLET TIME".
  Combine a Spectacular dive through a window with the bullet time you'll see every chunk of the 
 shattering glass falling with a clunk on the surface,
  And of course all of this is presented in third person so you get to see evry bit of stuntwork. And 
 guess what, the end result is a superbly designed gunplay sequence which gives you a feel which 
 no other action game can come close to.
  
  SOUND - This game has the BEST VOICE ACTING ever. And believe me when i say BEST EVER. Its just awesome. Every 
 character is brought to life because of the excellent voice acting.
  Max Payne 2 also has a very good theme song which also plays at some points during the game.
 
  There are few musical themes which play during the cutscenes and some very intense shootouts.
 
  
  THE GOODS - Bullet Time , Rich Storyline , Fantastic Voice acting , Good Visuals specially during 
 gunfights , Well Crafted Cutscenes (The Graphic Novel) , Sound effects and music.
  
  THE BAD - Short game
  
  The Fall Of Max Payne does a fabulous job of storytelling and has some 
 of the most memorable characters in gaming history. Its a game which is genuienely a top quality 
 entertainer.
  Max Payne 2 is a sequel worthy of praise. With its extremely rich story and hard hitting dialogues 
 Max Payne 2 will be remembered for many years to come.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: christy_neo
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 14, 2006 6:19 am PT
Review:  Incredible story, the best game play is like u watching a movie and u make the action! First was 
 good but this one is more i'm dying to see Max Payne 3. Time bullet is a great idea, the graphic 
 is great there is no game that i've played to be this good. 
  If you look at the game u can't believe it is a game made a couple of years ago, your first impression 
 is somewhere last year. The sounds, voices the story make it a wonderful game, pity is so short 
 after you finish the game u get sad "so soon the finish line" : ( ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatboyvinnie
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 12, 2006 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Story-You are max payne, a New York detective investigating a series of crimes involving stolen 
 weapons and mobsters and in the middle of this you are caught up with max's love interest called 
 Mona Sax who was supposedly killed in the first Max Payne but has somehow lived.
  
  Graphics: Pros-Models look great, weapons are well modeled, environments are well detailed
  Cons-none
 
  
  Sound: Pros-Solid voice acting, great suspenseful music, great weapon sounds
  Cons-none
  
  Game Play: Pros-Brilliant use of bullet time which slows everything down around you and makes 
 it like The Matrix, great tense firefights
  Cons-none
  
  Replay Value: The single player mode is incredibly short and it should only take you 6 hours to 
 complete, you get higher difficulties and a sort of DM mode with the AI but it doesnt add that much 
 value to it in the end
  
  Overall: Max Payne 2 is a incredible action game that is only brought down by its really short length 
 but if it had a additional 5 hours or so to the main storyline it could of possibly been one of 
 the best games of all time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sime47
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 3, 2006 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne 1 was very good game. It had a great graphic, very good story, great sound, well the 
 game was very very good. Everything what has been done in first Max Payne is just a little better 
 in second one. In Max Payne 2 in the beginning you will see that graphic is better than in first 
 one. Story is better, too. It is continued from the first MP and it is one of the best stories 
 ever. Max Payne is famous with his bullet time which is working very good here, too. With fun, 
 good characters, and great story atmosphere will be on the high rank so you will hardly stop playing. 
 And now here comes problem. Max Payne 2 is pretty short game. You have to try this game especially 
 if you have played the first one. This is one of the best TPS-s. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Don_Shadio
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 30, 2006 2:36 am PT
Review:  I really love this game, not for its very good storyline or graphics, its the voices. Max Payne's 
 voice acting is certainly the best I have ever come across. Its a manly voice and makes you feel 
 like a real man when you are walking down a street, kill 5-6 bad people and a cut scene starts. 
 This alone is the most powerful involvement factor.
  Max Payne 2 really has good graphics and would run as smooth as butter on a normal gaming PC. I 
 really enjoyed the blurry effects when Max is having a dream and we are playing in it. Really shows 
 how dreams are like.
  The game is short but is full of exciting events that keep you on your toes. You never know what 
 is waiting for you at the next corner. The developers have really come up with a strong plot and 
 unlike many games and movies, I was unable to conclude it until the moment I had finished playing. 
 You also get to play with one other character (play it to see him/her?) . The way you come across 
 characters and how they try to hit you is really nice. As for fighting, I think it boasts the best 
 fighting style seen in a 3rd person shooter game. 
  As I said earlier that I liked voice acting of this game, but you just listen to the ingame soundtracks. 
 They are thrilling. I would recommend playing it more than once.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: klint44
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2006 7:01 am PT
Review:  This is it! The game succeeded in getting rid of anything (I mean anything) that was adherable 
 in the first part of Max Payne series. The graphics, sound and above all ACTION have been mastered 
 to a level where the only thing you receive is the game itself. I really disliked the fact that 
 the characters who survived the first part are put into the story in MP2 not much convincingly, 
 however: who cares, when you have such a brilliant game to play. And the idea of playing two different 
 characters in the simultaneous action is just terrific. I really can't wait to try MP3, when it 
 finally is in the stores. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kicken
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 22, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  this game successfully builds upon the first Max Paybe, and Rockstar brings us Max Payne 2 - The 
 Fall of Max Payne... and continues to bring what the first Max Payne gave us: great graphics, great 
 gameplay, and GREAT storyline
  gameplay: so fun, you have the slow down matrix style looking gunfights, and can use it whenever 
 you want by just clicking the right mouse button by default. But its just so fun! lots of guns 
 (my fav is the dual desert eagles) and theres a variety (without spoilng the story) on certain 
 levels you also play as Mona Sax, which is really fun
  graphics: game came out in 2003 and 3 years later they still meet the standard. amazing for 2003, 
 ragdoll effect when you kill people, and all the boxes and stuff moves around, fun stuff. Only 
 prob I had is that I found Max Payne's mouth didnt move during certain cut scenes, which kinda 
 sucked, but still awesome.
  sound: mint, awesome job of Max's Payne voice.
  value: heres the problem with this game, its really short first time around, and theres nothing 
 different about the story at harder difficulties... so the first time around, expect the excact 
 same thing the next time.
  so in conclusion: awesome game, but I rather play an awesome GOOD QUALITY game like this for 10 
 hours, then play some crap RPG or strategy game that lasts me 50 hours, and since its 3 years old 
 its probably a lot cheaper, so theres NO reason not to go buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 43n1m4
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 20, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  This intense ride through the consciousness and subconsciousnes of the narrator may be among some 
 of the best PC game storywriting in recent memory.
  
  Sure, the game falls into a decent amount of clichs along the way, but most of them actually enhance 
 the story, as falling is very much the central theme of this story, as the title implies.
  
  What happened to Max Payne? 
  
  This game delivers a perplexing answer to that question, 
 but before the answers come, you experience a certain amount of pain, suffering and - at times 
 - even fun in this rollercoaster of madness.
  
  Well, I know, this may sound like an overly enthusiastic PC sales speech to a newcomer in them 
 games department, but to be honest, very few action games has this amount of depth to it.
  On one side, one could experience this as an intense, if somewhat short, action game. But another 
 person may play the game for the layered film-noir paradox story behind it all. 
  
  Of course the game has its shortcomings. First of all, its rather short. I don't mind that, considering 
 the quality of what is in it. But others may not be as forgiving. Expect somewhere between 5-8 
 hours of solid gameplay.
  Secondly, the game - despite its intelligent storywriting - is basically a shooter in 3rd person 
 perspective. Don't expect the game to break new ground in the core mechanics of the shooter genre. 
 
  Finally the game has some repetive areas. Although its fun to shoot and see things bounce around 
 due to the almost-to-full physics system, some areas seem to have just that - things and enemies.
 
  
  That being said, Max Payne 2 is an instant classic which has much to offer, and if you haven't 
 played the game yet, I implore you to search the bargain bins for a copy. 
  Even the graphics are still very solid, despite the age of the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Limonadi
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 18, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  I have played and finished the first one and the first one really kept you into the game with the 
 awesome storyline. I have played through to chapter 3 of Part III... and i've only had the game 
 for less then a week. I must say Max Payne 2 is by far the best game dealing with storyline's and 
 gameplay. I have yet to have a game of any genre capture me like this one has. I have slight A. D. D. 
 and this game has made me do nothing but venture farther in it. I have also reached a state to 
 where i NEED to get up and walk away because i know if i dont i wont be able to walk again. For 
 anybody who likes a good action game if they dont get this then they have not lived their life. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Subcritical
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 17, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne 2, although being short, was a chore to finish. Although cinematics can enhance a game, 
 this production just takes it too far. The action is always broken up by cut-scenes and passive 
 story advancement . Unfortunately this breaks up action sequences which are too short. Just as 
 the game builds rhythm in gameplay, it takes you right out of the action by invading your gameplay 
 experience with its passive delivery of the story. Although I didn't time all of the passive moments 
 and action moments. Upon finishing the game, I felt I watch this game more than I played it. 
 
  
  The third person perspective is annoying as well. It was no doubt utilized so that you can watch 
 in slow motion as your characters (Max and Mona) make their dives and tumbles. But the perspective 
 actually took me out of the gameplay because it makes you feel isolated from the action. Basically 
 the movement mechanics are dull. 
  
  The graphics are very good, even three years after release. The in-game sound is adequate. Voice 
 acting is very well done.
  
  The bottom line: this game does a great job of taking you out of the action and allowing you to 
 sit in your chair and watch the game unfold. Immersion is quite low...... and immersion is a big 
 part of gaming for me.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anarki983
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2006 5:38 am PT
Review:  Max Payne 2 the fall of Max Payne, is unlike any other shooting game I've ever played. I believe 
 it is one of the best games ever made for PC, also one of the best sequels. The graphics are incredible, 
 and the gameplay is amazing. Bullet time, and bullet dodge are a clever, and unique way of attacking 
 the enemy. The sound is great, especially the music. The guns, the characters, and the levels, 
 have had alot of work put into them. The way an object moves when you shoot it, or run into it, 
 is really clever. If you love shooting/action games, then play Max Payne 2: the fall of Max Payne, 
 You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeMoraledGamer
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 16, 2006 9:49 pm PT
Review:  man, this game was a lot more fun than i thought. the realistic combat combined with the slow motion 
 function can lead to surprisingly good results. oh the action is good, but this game isn't all 
 action. believe it or not this game does have an intriguing story to go with it. i'm not going 
 to spoil it, but what i have to say about the storyline is that its griping and exciting just like 
 a good rated R movie. i recommend this game for those who are into the shoot em up action story 
 game and to those new to the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 15, 2006 6:49 am PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
  On top of the revolutionary bullet time effects, they added rag dolls. Rag dolls will add a whole 
 new depth to any game and certainly added a lot more to the Max Payne series and experience.
  The story has more to it than the previous partially "spray and pray" type story as before. Instead, 
 there's more personality to Max Payne.
  Lots of mods out there means loads of replay value.
  
  :Bad Idea:
  The story is better 
 but more weird now. Max Payne just lost his wife and kid and he's already screwing around with 
 a bimbo that tried to kill him. It doesn't make any sense.
  I wish there were more weapons but I can't have everything.
  Before GTA's hot coffee scandel, 
 this game was out there was Max Payne 2. And in this game, you can actually unlock with cheats 
 a highly-rendered 3D naked chick (who looks a heck of a lot better than the GTA chicks) .
  
  :Overall:
  Another solid game from Remedy. This time with a few graphical uplifts and rag dolls 
 and a bit more of a story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KlawHammer
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 14, 2006 6:45 am PT
Review:  A worthy successor to the original, with even better graphics, sound and gameplay, Max is back 
 with a vengeance!
  From the moment you start the game to the moment you end, you'll be so immersed into the troubled 
 world of Max Payne, you'll never want to put it down!
  
  The most interesting aspect of the game is the "film noir" style of play. You would think you were 
 in a movie, such is the immersion. Like the last game, Max battles foe after foe, he even gets 
 some help from a certain sexy female in some parts of the game. 
  
  The sound is top notch, with a very unobtrusive background music. 
  The Havok physics engine 
 provides the true rag-doll physics with incredibly life-like animations, although at times people 
 do end up in strangely contorted positions.
  
  The graphics get a huge upgrade from the first game, with sharper more detailed textures and higher 
 polycount. Max's face and the faces of all the other characters in the game are very human-like, 
 think on the lines of "Mafia :Lost Haven", but even better. What's even sweeter is that the game 
 will run butter-smooth even on a low-end system, (9600-9800 series) with no problem.
  
  The gameplay aspect of the game is very good, with over 12 hours of playtime to be had, definately 
 a plus in my book. Matrix-style bullet time is back and can be used at anytime, good for when you're 
 overwhelmed with foes.
  
  Overall, the game features alot of new things over the old, and i would highly recommend! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KitMcCloud
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 10, 2006 9:24 am PT
Review:  My uncle gave me this game a week ago and thought I never played the original, I tried it anywho. 
 I must say I was pretty ssurprised.
  
  I have never seen a game that has as solid graphics as this game. Veeerrrry solid gameplay too. 
 After defeating the game once, you yet still have another challenge to go. Waaay more challenges 
 actually.
  
  Such as completing the game on different leves. And replaying the levels all over again.
  
 
  Many of the games levels get kinda fustrating sometimes, but you'll get through 'em.
  
  Some of the flaws of this game is that your allies are bland, whom always get into firefights and 
 who walk, and run sometimes, to your aid while being surrounded by millions of M4 Carbines firing 
 at them.
  
  Overall this game was the best I've played on a PC!
  
  Gameplay-A big winner here. A whole lotta replay value
  
  Graphics-A VERY big winner. I've 
 never seen graphics this solid
  
  Sound-Pretty good, but the music get's kinda repetetive
  
  Value-GET THIS GAME! It may not 
 be cheap, but it's worth your money.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: themubashir
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 9, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne 2 : The Fall Of Max Payne is a third person shooter which continues the story of Max 
 Payne , who is an undercovercop but unfortunately was framed for the murder of his wife and children.
 
  
  STORY - This games starts off 2 years after the events of the original game.
  He has left the DEA and joined the NYPD as a detective. His routine investigation about a cleaning 
 company brings him face to face with Mona Sax. (Remember?) . She herself is framed for murder. Max 
 Payne is still haunted by his nightmares. He is also attracted to Mona Sax. What follows in their 
 lives is what Max Payne 2 is all about.
  Max Payne 2 has an extremely rich and deep storyline with its extremly well crafted cutscenes it 
 can give you some nail biting experience.
  The Story is all about Love, Power , Greed , Betrayal....
  
  GAMEPLAY - Gameplay in Max Payne 
 2 : The Fall Of Max Payne is more or less the same as in the original. But Max is now much stronger 
 and faster.
  He wont die every now and then. To help you ought you still have theBULLET TIME". This is probably 
 the most strongest appeal for Max Payne games. Bullet time is also much more fun this time around. It 
 has a grim feel to it. You can alsoDODGE" bullets now. There is a wide range of realistic weapons 
 thus adding to realism in the game.
  Also this time its much more difficult as the enemies are much more smarter. They hide for covers 
 and attack in groups.
  In order to have replay value there are different settings likeHARD - BOILED", DETECTIVE, NEW 
 YORK MINUTE , DEAD MAN ALIVE... Each of which are fun.
  All in all the Gameplay is pretty decent but what makes it different from other action games is 
 theBULLET TIME" which makes the game just freaking awesome.
  
  GRAPHICS - When compared to the original Max Payne this game has been massively upgraded with more 
 detailed characters and environments.
  The new Ragdoll physics has also been added which is just superbly done.
  The textures are just 
 brilliant and particle effects are too good.
  Although the characters may look repetative, environments are not.
  Adding to the brilliant graphics 
 is once again theBULLET TIME".
  Combine a Spectacular dive through a window with the bullet time you'll see every chunk of the 
 shattering glass falling with a clunk on the surface,
  And of course all of this is presented in third person so you get to see evry bit of stuntwork. And 
 guess what, the end result is a superbly designed gunplay sequence which gives you a feel which 
 no other action game can come close to.
  
  SOUND - This game has the BEST VOICE ACTING ever. And believe me when i say BEST EVER. Its just awesome. Every 
 character is brought to life because of the excellent voice acting.
  Max Payne 2 also has a very good theme song which also plays at some points during the game.
 
  There are few musical themes which play during the cutscenes and some very intense shootouts.
 
  
  THE GOODS - Bullet Time , Rich Storyline , Fantastic Voice acting , Good Visuals specially during 
 gunfights , Well Crafted Cutscenes (The Graphic Novel) .
  
  THE BAD - More or Less same gameplay as in Max Payne 1, Short game, Some missing Points in Story.
 
  
  The Fall Of Max Payne does a fabulous job of storytelling and has some of the most memorable characters 
 in gaming history.
  Max Payne 2 is a sequel worthy of praise. With its extremely rich story and hard hitting dialogues 
 Max Payne 2 will be remembered for many years to come.
  Its a game which is genuienely a top quality entertainer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: V1RuS0fL1fE
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 4, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, Max Payne 2 is an awesome game. It's just not as immersive or as convincing.
 
  
  Story:
  
  Mona Sax..... yeah she's hot and all... but I still didn't understand how she was still alive. Maybe 
 this whole game is jut one huge hellbending dream of Payne's. Some points in the plot didn't quite 
 fit in the jigsaw puzzle whilst in the first game, everything began to make sense after the playing 
 the first half of it. I can't spoil anything here, but it just wasn't as enjoyable. How did Payne 
 end up being an NYPD cop after being arrested in the first? If any of you guys think I'm missing 
 something about the game that I should've known, PM me.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Now this is where the game glows like shimmering gold. The frustrating bullet lag in the first 
 no longer exists here. The bullet time meter now regenerates, whilst in the first you had to kill 
 someone in order to gain some juice :p. The physics are a great add as well.
  The only problem I had in the game was that there were a bit TOO MANY painkillers lying around 
 the levels compared to the first. The game was much easier.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Not bad... not bad at all. The bendy-distortion-thing effect during Payne's nightmares just adds 
 to the eerieness and suspense, but it just wasn't as crazy as the first game's nightmares. Character 
 models are rendered quite nicely. Not much here that'll surprise people.
  
  Sound:
  
  Soundtrack is great. The speeches are not as well done as the last game's. The sound effects during 
 Payne's nightmares isn't as spooky.
  
  Overall, I didn't quite like the game much. Even if the game gets a 9.0 from me, I just didn't 
 appreciate the game as much as the first Max Payne. Once you've played the first, then play this 
 game after, I think you'll understand.
  
  As a stand-alone game, it's great. Along with the first Max Payne, not really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeSlayer01
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 3, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne 2 takes everything good about the first game and "Maxifies" it times ten. This is the 
 type of game that shows me that Remedy Entertainment is one of the best gaming companies in business 
 right now.
  
  The gameplay is turned up several notches. This may seem as a bad thing to some people, but the 
 game is slightly easier, which I like a lot. Shootdodges don't drain your slowmo anymore, so you 
 have a alot of bullet-time at your disposal. Oh and you do a cool spin thing as you reload if you're 
 in bullettime. The addition of Havok physics and ragdolls is a giant plus. It's nothing short of 
 thrilling to see a body flying through the air and hitting stuff as you speed past it to shoot 
 the next guy.
  
  The storyline is fantastic, in a way it's the greatest videogame storyline ever written because 
 of the emotions put into every single character. It must have taken a lot of thinking, unlike science 
 fiction games for example, where it's like, hey lets invent a monster that attaches itself to your 
 head, and it's an alien, oh and it's called a headcrab!!! now that's good writing.
  
  The graphics are very nice for a game made in 2003. The game is very pretty. However, I suppose 
 it wouldn't look that great if the game was in first-person perspective. They're great for a TPS.
 
  
  The sound in the game is fantastic, the guns sound nice as in the original, but the dialogue is 
 the star of the audio realm here.
  
  This game is definitely worth every penny. It's somewhat short. I beat it in about 5 or 6 hours, 
 but the storyline and gameplay make up for it all the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neerajkumar_4
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 9, 2006 12:45 am PT
Review:  Max-Payne 2:-
  
  By,
  $corpio_g@mer a. k. a Neerajkumar_4
  
  Introduction:-
  
  Max-Payne 2's predecessor was a Super Hit and yet again Max-Payne's sequel is a great game!!! Its 
 basically a similar game with a different story and improved graphics. The cut scenes are comic 
 style. The back ground music is amazing!
  
  Game-Play:-
  
  You have your bullet time (MATRIX style a. k. a slow motion) , this makes the game more fun to play. 
 The guns are cool. The game gives you a memorable shooting experience. The rag doll sequence is 
 pretty well done in this game. The sniper is fun to use!! 
  
  Graphics:-
  
  Superb graphics !! the game has amazingly cool graphics, the game looks good on a low-end config. 
 The character models are done pretty well ! 
  
  Sound :-
  
  The game's sound is very good! the back ground music is cool! The voice acting is pretty good !
 
  
  Conclusion:-
  
  The game has an superb story line. The game works nicely on a low end system, thats a very good 
 thing !! There's a lot to tell about this game, it better you play it !! So wat r u waiting for 
 ?? leave now!! 
  
  Its a must buy title !!!! 
  
  Graphics - 10/10
  
  Sound- 9/10
  
  Gameplay-9/10
  
  Replay Value:8/10
  
  Story: 9/10
  
  Overall- 9/10
  
  
 
  Scorpio_gamer:- Remember there is NO such thing as GAME OVER!!
  So keep GAMING.!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordgames123
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  MAX PAYNE 2 ROCKS!!!! i love slow motion, its simply the best!!! 
  Max Payne 2 is what i think the best game of its type, i really enjoy the slow motion effect (Bullet 
 Time) in the game, there are lots of weapons to choose from, i love the ingram, when you keep shooting 
 with bullet time until max reloads the effect is awesome!! My mate breakdownxcore told me max payne 
 3 will be releasing soon so im really excited about it, im sure it will have better graphics and 
 filled with new extra features. I downloaded the bonus chapters for the game, you have to stay 
 alive for as long as you can, the enemies keep reviving. MAY PAYNEIts the COOLEST!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Decomposed35
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 26, 2006 4:52 am PT
Review:  Max Payne 2 doesn't lose for the first one in any aspects. The storyline, that is the plus of the 
 Max Payne games, is deeper and more complicated that the one in the first game. Some things that 
 were left untold are now reveled and you basicly understand almost everything.... almost, what gives 
 the sign that there is a third game coming.
  It's amazing how the story is told by to parts, for in this game you play with Payne and THE girl. 
 Then you mix the lines and it's great.
  In the matter of the gameplay, it's almost the same as in the previous game. The only diference 
 is a few features and some new weapons that are shown diferently.
  If you are looking for a good game to play you've found it. Max Payne has the power to hold you 
 to the story and make you play more and more to discover what will happen. It is a MUST BUY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-M-INDIAN18
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 17, 2006 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Introduction
  
  A couple of years ago, the predecessor of Max Payne 2: The Fall of Max Payne changed my gaming 
 habits with its unique and stylish game play, story and everything else. It converted me into a 
 pc gamer for life!!! The first thing I did after finishing Max Payne 1 was to check if it had a 
 sequel or not. Praying to the Gods of gaming, I clicked into the Max Payne website and with a sigh 
 of relief, I found out that the sequel to the most stylish and coolest game ever made was already 
 out. Not knowing that it was going to push Max Payne hard for the No.1 spot in favorite games list, 
 I went ahead and purchased it.
  
  Preview
  
  The protagonist of this game, Max Payne, has been freed from police custody for whatever he did 
 in the previous installment of the game, with the help of one of the characters he had made a deal 
 with. Now, the entire world perceives him as some kind of a hero who helped the city in its fight 
 against the unlawful citizens of the city. This game has been promoted as a film noir love story 
 and it tries really hard to be one.
  
  Story: 8.5/10
  
  Like it has been said above, the story tries very hard to be a film noir love story. But, in the 
 quest to make a film noir love story, the writer loses the humor that made the first game a classic. 
 Somewhere down the line, you wish they had paid more attention to the humor side of the first game, 
 and implemented it in the second one too. But the humor side apart, its still good enough to be 
 able to suck you into caring for the lead characters. You just cant help continue playing until 
 you know what happens to them at the end.
  
  The story of Max Payne, like the previous one, has been told through a number of cut-scenes and 
 graphic novels (ala Sin City) . The writer, though loses the humor, still manages to create an intense 
 and dark atmosphere of the first one, which, in turn, keeps the players at the edge of their seat 
 through out the length of the game.
  
  But, there is a difference in the way graphic novels and cut-scenes have been implemented this 
 time around. In the previous game, you were able to click on various items (including TV news, 
 radio, telephones, etc.) through out the level, which triggered graphic novels. In this sequel, 
 however, you cant click on anything during a level to trigger a graphic novel. Graphic novels 
 are strictly there to begin and end the levels. Everything else during a level has been told in 
 live action or cut-scenes.
  
  Now, we come to the actual story of the game. His life in ruins, Max rejoins the NYPD. He is shown 
 working under the guy who was chasing him in the first game!!! One night, responding to a distress 
 call, he goes to make enquiries where he meets someone he thought dead, Mona Sax. And with her, 
 comes back all his past ghosts to haunt him. This game also marks the return of a few more characters 
 from the first game. It seems as if one of the underworld don, Vinnie Gognitti, has made a deal 
 with some one high above. A hit has been put on Max Paynes name along with a few more people. 
 He must now uncover the mystery behind it all, while confronting with the evils of his past.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  What can we say about the game-play of max Payne??? It still remains 
 the biggest highlight of this franchise. Like the previous installment, it once again has been 
 incredibly well done and extremely enjoyable to play. With the return of the franchise returns 
 the Bullet time and shoot dodge. These unique features make the game really stylish and fun to 
 play. But, there have been some major changes to its key features like Bullet time, placement of 
 painkillers, and the like.
  
  Previously, bullet time was more useful when used with shoot dodge. Now, bullet time has been modified 
 to complement standing and gunning people. It doesnt pay to shoot dodge since it takes a long 
 time to get back up which always proves calamitous. Now, you can take on 5 or even more people 
 at the same time with the help of Bullet time and standing up. If you try to shoot dodge while 
 taking on so many people, you will always lose the battle. The screen goes yellow when you use 
 bullet time in this game. The longer you use it, the more powerful you will become, since you will 
 pick up speed with each passing second while your enemies will progressively become slower. Another 
 new cool effect of Bullet time is the reloading style while in Bullet time. If your gun runs out 
 of ammo while you are still in bullet time, then Max will bend halfway downwards and does a 360 
 degree spin. By the time you face the enemy again, your gun is reloaded. This feature, however, 
 may become tiresome after a while.
  
  Another new addition to the game play is the ability to play as another character in a few levels. 
 You will get to play a couple of levels through Mona Saxs perspective, which blends perfectly 
 with the storyline. Even when you play as Max, Mona will be there in a few levels to help you as 
 a NPC. This helps the storyline too, by showcasing there relationship. There are other characters 
 too who help you to kill enemies without you actually controlling them.
  
  Even the environment contributes a lot to the game play. There are many explosive canisters lying 
 about here and there which you can use to kill the enemies. There are places where you will have 
 to blow some canisters to create a hole in the wall or the ground to progress further. They all 
 look really beautiful too!!!
  
  Then, there is this thing about the HAVOK ENGINE!!! The enemies will no longer fall in only three 
 or four ways like in the previous game. The rag-doll effects in this game are amazingly life-like. 
 The bodies of the enemies will fall in real fashion depending on where the bullets hit them. The 
 movement of their arms and legs and other body parts will crash into things like they would in 
 real life. They will get entangled into things and or hang from ceilings with their arms still 
 flapping. It all looks wonderful in a combat. You can even play with bodies by shooting it and 
 blowing it up in the air. The game objects too are affected by these effects. If you crash into 
 fans, crates, etc., then be sure that they will move and fall.
  
  Enemy A. I.: 8.0/10
  
  The enemy A. I. is nearly the same as the last one. They will again come after you once they spot 
 you. Occasionally, they will camp in stead of following you. This does make for great combat set 
 pieces though. But, it looks dumb when they hurl a misdirected grenade at you and then walk into 
 it.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  Quite easily, one of the most beautiful looking games out there in the market!!! The level textures 
 and models all look really detailed and realistic too. The level designing is perhaps the best 
 you will get to see over a long period of time. The buildings, explosions that send the bodies 
 and walls flying, the burning effects of the building, blowing up of places, all pack a punch. 
 It all looks so real and awesome that you spend a lot of time just looking at them. The explosions 
 and flames all do well to lend themselves to creating a great and intense atmosphere in the game.
 
  
  There is a wide variety of levels which all showcase the hard work and the dedication of the developers. 
 No expanse has been spared. Right from the Police HQ, big Manors, decaying buildings and neighborhood, 
 to the garage and a funhouse, etc. all look so detailed, that its a crime not to stop and behold 
 the beauty for a few moments!!!
  
  Weapons, character models, weapon reloading, environment, etc. all look fluent and realistic. The 
 Molotov and grenades, explosive canisters, smoke, thunder & lightning, create an intense atmosphere 
 suited to the franchise. Carnage by bullets and explosions are permanent which can make any place 
 look like a war zone in no time. The new Bullet time also add to the beauty!!! When in bullet time, 
 the screen turns into a beautiful golden colour, a sight to behold!!!
  
  The re-modeled characters and their clothes are all good too. They are all extremely detailed. 
 Max now looks more real, and he looks like a man who has been through a lot in life. But, in lieu 
 of creating a more believable Max Payne, the developers have lost the ever-so-famous grin of the 
 earlier Max Payne, which is a pity really. The scars and cuts of the character remains with Max 
 right till the end, which shows off the amount of hard work thats been put in.
  
  The issue of death-animation restriction of the first one has been resolved here. The rag-dolls 
 look great and more importantly, are convincing!!! But, another issue of lip-syncing for the characters 
 still hasnt been answered in this one. They still look odd during cut-scenes.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  The main theme of the first one has been retained, but its been created using 
 a different instrument which suits the film noir style more. It gives a feeling of the events as 
 they unfold. It also does well to conjure up an image of the tragic protagonist, and creates a 
 wonderful atmosphere. The combat music of the first one was better though. This game also has a 
 very good end credits song Late Goodbye by the Poets of the Fall, which easily surpasses any 
 song ever heard in any game.
  
  Like with the previous installment, the voice-acting is top-notch once again. The voice-over actors 
 of the first one have been retained for the sequel as well. And they have done a great job of it 
 too. 
  
  The guns, Molotovs, and grenades all sound realistic. The enemies yell a more variety of curses 
 at you during fire-fights than in the first one, which add to the atmosphere. The breaking of walls, 
 blowing up of buildings, screeches of cars, sounds of thunder & lightning, etc. all combine their 
 forces to create an unbelievable aura of realism.
  
  Controls: 10/10
  
  Even if you havent played the first one, it wont be a problem to get into this game. This game 
 is incredibly easy to control and operate. The features are very well implemented and the players 
 find it very easy to learn the moves. You can also change the control set up for the game to any 
 keys you want to.
  
  Play time
  
  This game can take you anything between 7-9 hours to complete in your first play through. However, 
 this game has various difficulty modes to beat.
  
  Replayability: 8.5/10
  
  Like its predecessor, its game-play too is also very strong so that you can play it multiple times 
 without getting bored. Once you beat the game for the first time, you can try to beat the game 
 in higher difficulty modes, which are unlocked one-by-one as you beat the previous difficulty modes. 
 The game has three difficulty modes which make the game progressively harder to beat. In addition 
 to these three difficulty modes, it also has a timed mode to contain with.
  
  In addition, there is also a new game play mode called DEAD MAN WALKING. In it, you will have 
 to kill re-spawning enemies who keep on increasing with time. Basically, you will have to survive 
 for as long as you can. There are a total of six maps plus two more official maps waiting to be 
 downloaded. Plus, there are hundreds of DMW maps made by fans of the series, which you can download.
 
  
  Modifications
  
  The game has quite a few good mods for you to play. And the mod community for the Max Payne games 
 has gained momentum off-late. So you can get a few hours game-play out of them.
  
  Overall: 10/10
  
  Recommendation
  
  This game is a worthy successor of a great game. A 
 must-buy if you dont mind the short length of the game. It is a journey that will blow you away 
 with its style and classiness. A game to last an eternity, spiritually!!!
  
  Behold the beauty of Payne!!!
  Taste the Payne!!! Again!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xploded
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 14, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  Well,
  I was searching for a cheap game since i wanted a break from the brand new ones. So i went ahead 
 and bought this. I didnt expect from this to much. I loaded up the install, it was pretty slow. 
 But hey? Noone cares to much. I was a great fan of max payne 1. So when i first played the game 
 it had sort of a dark... yeah dark is the right word, feel. It had a dark feel. Quickly i got into 
 the story line, i kept playing it until i finally beat it. Dead man walking is a nice mod, its 
 pretty fun playing it since its just plain death match with some max payne elements. So this is 
 defently a buy -- rele amazing game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InSane_Snake
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 9, 2006 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne 2 is the sequel to 2001's critically acclaimed Max Payne. Max Payne 2 follows the story 
 of Max Payne, a cop on the edge with nothing to lose. Along the story you will meet many memorable 
 characters, like the Femme Fatale Mona Sax, Gangster Vinnie Gognitti, and Russian Gangster Vlad. 
 Max Payne 2 features hardcore, balls to the walls, stylish shooting action. The Game makes good 
 use of "Shootdodging." A Matrix-esque feature which allows you to dive in slowmotion while shooting 
 at enemies. Very cool. Combined with a great use of Havoc Physics, kills are very satisfying, not 
 to mention look very cool. At about five to six hours, the ride is short, but very very enjoyable. 
 After you have finished the main story I recommend downloading some modifications for the game 
 (many can be found right here at gamespot) . These mods can greatly extend the games replayablity 
 and your enjoyment with the game. Many include new levels, character models and stories. Or you 
 could try your hand at creating your own content, with the games official Mod tools. All and All, 
 this isn't one to miss. Pick it up as soon as possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vampiro_HuntT3R
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 5, 2006 7:01 am PT
Review:  The Game is very good. Better than Max Pyne 1. The Graphix are good, The sounds are kool and The 
 most important and Attracting this is slow motion shooting which is Incredibily Strong. Its very 
 good. The Slow Motion fighting feature is Superb. Reloading the guns in different ways, I like 
 that as well. Max Pyne reloads the guns in different ways in different situations and thats what 
 I like. 
  The story of this game is very good. I like it when he is in dream and the camera shakes when max 
 pyne walks in his dreams that is good. The Game is very good but it needs some Videos, The game 
 would get 9 or above if it had some amazing videos as it has the great story line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jebushank
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 25, 2006 3:30 am PT
Review:  Max payne 2 is a huge improvement on the first game. everything has been greatly improved a makes 
 a great difference. One of the biggest difference you can see from the start is the graphics. Max 
 himself and the other charcters have been beefed up in the facail. Max now looks like a real person 
 with amazing looking clothes.
  
  The graphics otherwise,
  The levels have whole new layer added to them making htem all the more realsitc to play through 
 and even just look at. The apparment level and the old theme park are especailly good looking, 
 even the warehouse in the beginning of the game has a huge amount of detail in it. The ingame videos 
 look as lsick as ever while the game plays through quite well, the colour palet often makes you 
 feel uneasy as it transfers that feeling from the first game, basing it on the valkir levels from 
 the first, some missions are done under the influnece of heavy wounds and even drugs, This gives 
 the game an almost dream look which is carried over well from the first one.
  
  The gameplay,
  In this secind game the gameplay is pretty much the same, the same responsive 
 control, the same bullet dodgeing skills (alothough max aqquired a new skill that cause him to 
 spin round riddling anyone close buy with bullets) and slow motion bits. This is deffintaley just 
 as fun as the first game but with more challanging levles and the introduction of a new character, 
 maxs new love and killer. this gives the game a dynamic twist that will keep you going
  
  If you even remoltey liked the first one you will go nuts for this amazing game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1carus
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 18, 2006 1:50 am PT
Review:  Max Payne wasn't a very long game. Infact, I finished it in a day. As short as it was, it was still 
 one of the funnest games I've ever played. The story was excellent as well, a movie experience, 
 with absolutely amazing voice acting.
  
  The sequel packs in that, and plenty more. Max Payne: The Fall Of Max Payne combines some furious 
 action with an excellent story, bringing back old favourite characters, and introducing new ones 
 too. 
  
  The story begins in the normal Max Payne way - In the future. We find Max running for his life 
 through a hospital, relaying memories of his experiences with key characters. This sets the scene 
 nicely. The game then takes a turn, and heads back a night, and shows us the events of Max's haunting 
 adventures. This in itself shows that already the game has some movie influences, and you know 
 that you're in for a ride of twists and turns.
  
  Max's character is a bit different this time round, both physically and mentally. For starters, 
 he no longer has that sly, crazed look he sported in the original Max Payne, and instead looks 
 like a stark, emotionally frustrated man. He is no longer a "hero looking for vengeance." Instead 
 he has a "glass half empty" look on life at the start of the game. He also has terrible difficulty 
 choosing sides to play with. One side to his job, a simple NYPD cop, tracking down a fake cleaning 
 agency, and the other to the Femme Fatale Mona Sax, who is being tracked down by another officer 
 on the force. It is Mona's seducing skills, and Max's weakness to seducing skills, that causes 
 Max to fall in love with Mona. At first, you'll be thinking, Max is a bit of a jerk. I don't like 
 his attitude. Why isn't he happier? Let me tell you, by the end of the game, you'll love Max Payne, 
 and you'll be praising him with every bullet he fires.
  
  This time round however, the cops don't turn on Max. Not entirely anyway. It's not all black and 
 white this time round. Without ruining too much of the story, let me just say there is double crossing, 
 and sometimes you find yourself helping or fighting those you least suspected.
  
  As you can see the story is a crucial part of the game. Even with all the excellent action, the 
 game wouldn't be half as good without it's brilliant cinematic feel.
  
  The graphics themselves are brilliant, giving a nice stellar feel to the game. It's dark, yet colourful 
 at the same time. The models are excellent - with greats like the beautiful Mona Sax, the sly, 
 sneaky, and angry Vinnie Gognitti, and the calm and clever Vladmir Lem, all of which make an appearance 
 in the original Max Payne, so they had a lot to live up to.
  
  The sounds are great. From the crack of a Berreta, to the loud pump of a shotgun, the games sounds 
 are amazing. But that's just the start. With the added element of the excellent and fitting voice 
 acting, the game works great. The music finishes the sound off with a bang though. This is truly 
 some of the best music you'll ever hear. Think the original Max Payne music with a violin, slower 
 theme, and darker pitch, with some great drums, and you've got this excellent piece of music, that 
 gives the game it's awesome feel.
  
  And finally I've reached the point where I can actually talk about the gameplay. Like I said before, 
 that without the story, the gameplay would be nothing, likewise, without the gameplay, the story 
 would be nothing. With the added ragdolling effects, you can have some seriously awesome fights. 
 Bullet Time makes a return, obviously, this time with a small change. As you kill more people, 
 you will become faster, and you're enemies slower in bullet time. So if you wrack up enough kills, 
 you can eventually be moving at a normal rate in bullet time, while your enemies will be blasted 
 into yesterday, literally.
  
  But it's not just about running and gunning. There are many different styles of play. The first 
 of which, is a level in which you play as Mona (that's right, it happends now. Only a few, but 
 they're there) when you're on the rooftop of a warehouse, with you're heavy sniper rifle, creating 
 cover for Max, as he runs across a huge open cavern. It's times like these that make you go, wow!
 
  
  The game is over far too quickly however, just like it's predecessor. You'll be wanting much more 
 after you finish, but when you think about it, it's not that crazy. If it were longer, it'd feel 
 dragged on, as though, they're stretching the near perfect story and just going on tangents. The 
 only other way around it is to make the game harder. But it is. It's incredibly hard. And that's 
 another reason why you'll love it so much.
  
  This game is an easy recommend to anyone looking to have some great action, or simply a great, 
 movie quality story. This game is better than it's predecessor in almost every single way. The 
 developers have left nothing off that was in the original. Overall, Max Payne 2: The Fall Of Max 
 Payne creates very memorable scenery, great graphics, excellent gameplay, and the best damn story 
 in a game, I've every seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fasdaqw
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 16, 2006 4:55 am PT
Review:  MAx payne 2 is the next installment of Max payne a man who his wife and daughter have been killed 
 and try to find who may have killed them. In this game Max payne found his self back to the NYPD (New 
 York Police Department) and as he is investigating a murder he founds that a woman from the past 
 who saw her with a bullet in her head is alive.
  Max payne 2 has excellent solid graphics and although it is a 2003 game it 's graphics can easily 
 be compared with the graphics of a 2006 game. There are more weapons and better moves. You kill 
 the bad guys and watch them fall down. It is a bit short and perhaps this is the only bad thing 
 with the games. It is a violent and enjoyable game who may gamers will love it. If you do not have 
 it, BUY IT NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pisfles666
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 27, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  When the first max payne game came out, no one was really looking forward to it. Until it came out... the 
 game amazed allot of people. It had good graphics, good gameplay, good sound... only it was a little 
 bit on the short side. And for max payne 2 it's actually pretty much the same but in a good way.
 
  
  The graphics are fantastic if i may say so, and still today they are up to date and it's been out 
 for 3 years, so i find that pretty amazing. It's great because of all the detail on the weapons, face 
 expressions, level detail... for example, when you look at the walls in the hotel levels, you will 
 see writings, graffiti and papers hanging on them. This also count's for alot of other levels.
  
  The sound is also very nice, like if someone is speaking to you ingame and you turn around 
 you won't hear him so clearly anymore just like in real life. The weapon sounds are all pretty good 
 except for a few. I also enjoyed the ingame voices, they all fit nicely with the characters and 
 after listening to them a couple of times, you still won't skip 'em. 
  
  And boy... what a gameplay! it's truly amazing how fun that bullet-dodge en slowmo can be. And firing 
 guns is so nice and you feel so powerfull if you have a nice big shotgun in you're hands: p.
  
  The story looks like it came right from a movie, it's really a noir love story that drags you 
 with emotion from the beginning of the game till the end.
  The only "bad" thing about the game is, that's it's a bit on the short side. When i played it the 
 second time i finished it within 2.5 hours. But for that you got the very big max payne mod community!
 
  
  To say the final words: This is one of the best games i played and i'm still playing it this very 
 day, so that's gotta mean something :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f_muzaka
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 11, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  When Max Payne 2 came out I ran to buy it looking for another strong game with detective Payne 
 and it was. With refined graphics and a different much more compelling storyline and proper over 
 17, the game was serving more as a series not even as a sequel, probably because of the setting 
 . Still the game play was cool, refined and with an intriguing plot. Although Max Payne is turning 
 a bit like Rambo or Dirty Harry, the game carries on values like the first without having the advantage 
 of surprise.
  I bought it and played it although not as much as the first one. The only new element in the story 
 line that i liked very much was playing even as the other character, thing that does not happen 
 that much in rpg games. 
  I would recommend buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobby_Milli
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 11, 2006 1:19 am PT
Review:  Max Payne 2 is a very classy game, especially from a visual point of view. The graphics are quite 
 sharp and even though most of the game takes place in mundane environments such as warehouses, 
 the high interactivity with the surrounding objects makes these environments quite life-like. Also, 
 these settings add a great atmospheric feel to the game.
  
  Perhaps my favourite part of the game is the beautiful graphic cutscenes and the accompausic and 
 dialogue.
  
  Max Payne 2 gets a high replay value from me, mainly because the first time around, you'll be so 
 confused, that when you go through it a second time, many parts of the plot, which were blurry, 
 clear out so the interest is kept alive!
  
  Two thumbs up!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n0s2004
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2006 12:38 am PT
Review:  Which shooter can be better or close to Max Payne ?? Max Payne 2 ofcourse.
  
  Graphically MP2 is just superb. The sound could've been better. The 9mm pistols & MP5 sound ridiculous 
 but thankfully they sound amazing is Bullet-Time. Gameplay is as Solid as Max Payne himself. The 
 game is still short but an amazing ride from the start to the little dissapointing end. But that 
 shouldn't keep you away from this game.
  
  One of the new features is the Bullet Time 2.0. As u kill enemies your Hour glass turn yellow then 
 finally golden like. As it turns darker you keep moving faster & by fast i mean FAST. In this BT 
 2.0 u can reload guns instantly. Another new feature is DEAD MAN WALKING which is a survival mode 
 at different locations.
  This is an excellent sequel must be a part of your collection. Miss this at your own risk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudeglove
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 7, 2006 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Max is a troubled man. He used to be a regular Joe - working in the NYPD. Max's wife and newly 
 born child were murdered one night. He switched over to the DA, and followed a greasy trail of 
 drug addicts, Italian gangsters, and Russian mobsters leading all the way to high-ranking government 
 officials. Forsaking everything, Max took on everybody who came his way, all the way to the very 
 people responsible for ruining his life. Max had nothing left to live for. His life is in ruins, 
 yet he eventually finds himself back at his old job. Nothing is ever simple, and Max runs into 
 a woman he thought dead: Mona Sax - a femme fatale, in every sense of the word
  
  For the reader it is best to describe the game as a third-person shooter, but it is an insult to 
 pigeon hole Max Payne. Max Payne is a whole chunk above the rest and sets a standard and amount 
 of effort not seen very often. The first installment of Max Payne pioneered the bastardization 
 of "bullet time" in computer games. If this term is lost on you, cast your mind back to the film 
 "The Matrix" that starred Keanu Reeves. A method of filming was employed whereby both Keanu and 
 the audience could see bullets coming towards them in a manner of slow motion. "Bullet time" returns 
 once again for Max's benefit.
  
  By the press of a button Max can go into "bullet time" to get the upper hand over his enemies. 
 Each enemy he disposes of fills up his "bullet time" hourglass and makes him progressively faster 
 than his opponents in the slowed down state. The game doesn't bother to explain it rationally and 
 if it did, it would be to its detriment. The important thing is that there's action, and plenty 
 of it. Over the course of the game, Max comes across an army of low-life criminals all happy to 
 see him. Max can also gather an impressive array of weaponry such as sawn-off shotguns -a mainstay 
 of anything involving guns- hold pistols in both hands -a nod to director John Woo- and wield a 
 wealth of assault rifles. 
  
  The story is told through a kind of graphic novel. We cut to a sort of comic strip between reasonably 
 short levels of action. The game does not resort to overblown FMV movies, but uses this far more 
 classy method of telling the story which fits perfectly into the mood of the game. Max, Mona and 
 everyone else has their own voice acting and the individual strips of the novel would be best compared 
 to Frank Millar -of "Sin City" fame. By that, dark colour dominates and rare splashes of bright 
 red serve for dramatic visual effect. On top of this, the plot works in a roundabout manner. We 
 start off at what is close to the end of the game. We know that key characters have died already, 
 but we don't know why. Think along the lines of the film "Memento", in that as the time moves backwards, 
 the plot moves forward, so what you think you know turns out to be a lot more complex. On top of 
 that it has a terrifically dark sense of humour. Sex and Death -two of the "big three" as my English 
 teacher referred to as, the third being Religion- feature heavily so it's no wonder it received 
 a 15+ rating from the British Board of Film Classification. In fact 15+ is fairly generous, but 
 in movie terms it is less vicious than say "Scarface" or "Goodfellas". 
  
  Max Payne 2 is a violent game, but at least it is not violent for the sake of being so. It is not 
 fair to compare it to something like the controversial Grand Theft Auto series, even though the 
 same company, "Rockstar Games", produced it. You aren't blowing away innocents randomly. In terms 
 of the game's content, that's up to you. I have no qualms with the material; the mere fact that 
 such a type of game has bothered with such a highly polished and engrossing script is testament 
 enough. There are a few lessons to be learnt as well, namely don't get involved with women caught 
 on the wrong side of the law or you'll be up against militant criminals wielding Kalashnikovs. 
 It's all wholesome stuff. 
  
  There is one minor failing to this game, and that is the length. It possesses a fantastic plot, 
 really top-notch stuff, but it can only go on for so long. It's also a bit easy, at least on the 
 first run, depending on how good you are. If you are getting shot too much, or reloading your game 
 all the time, the game will adjust its difficulty to give you more ammo, or slightly dumber enemies 
 and vice versa. For the most part, you will never be stuck on one particular section for too long, 
 but there are challenging set pieces of action. Enemies aren't particularly stupid in these situations. 
 If you throw a grenade, they'll shout at each other and run like hell. They make use of scenery 
 and try to surround you if you are pinned down. In case your chest doesn't thump loud enough, going 
 into "bullet time" will amplify a pulse of heartbeats through your speakers to further add to the 
 action.
  
  Max Payne 2 was released about two years ago, so any modern computer bought now is more than capable 
 of handling the hardware specifications. The pack says a minimum of 1 Ghz processor, but my own 
 is an 850 Hz Athlon and is just as dandy. If in doubt, overclock your processor to make it faster 
 (it's not recommended that you do this as your computer will heat up quicker and more likely to 
 crash, but hey, you only live once) and turn down some of the graphical effects. You will need 
 a decent graphics card to enjoy all the bullets and explosions -I possess a 32MB Nvidia that is 
 fairly old in hardware terms but it meets the minimum specs and works super. You will also need 
 at least 256 RAM. I've had a bit of slow down occur at some points when nothing in particular was 
 going on but other than that I've had no problems at all -even when running at the highest possible 
 resolution. In terms of software you will need Windows 98 or above -i. e. Windows Millennium, Windows 
 2000 or Windows XP - and that your graphics card is compatible with Direct X9.0 -which comes with 
 the game. Max Payne is not compatible with Macintosh's operating system. The installation of two 
 discs depends on your computer, but I got it installed somewhere within twenty minutes. Sound is 
 recorded in Dolby Digital so make full use of your speakers. You will need a keyboard and a mouse 
 to play. Price varies depending on where you buy it. I purchased mine for 19.99 from a store, 
 which is very reasonable.
  
  "Max Payne 2: The Fall Of Max Payne" is the only video game I know to be referred to as a "film 
 noir love story". It is dark, brooding and unforgiving on the senses. Max is going through hell 
 and you are coming with him.
  
  http://www. maxpayne2. com 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Tron
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 6, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Hello guys, welcome to my review.
  I am reviewing Max-Payne 2 because it is awsome, the first time i played it on the x-box i thought 
 it was ''sweet but short'' so then about 1 year later i brought it for the p. c it cost me $7.99 
 and i thought that was a bargin for a new seeled game, plus i have always liked rock-stars style 
 of games.
  
  Gameplay; It is smooth as a mofo even if you have a low end computer, it will do a auto test to 
 detect your hardware which is good, so you dont have to fiddle about with the graphics settings 
 if it isnt working proply, the best thing about this game is the legendary bullet-time or as some 
 say '' slow-mo '' you can do this stylish move by pressing the right mouse ( i think ) and you 
 can move around in any direction while you are in the air, its very slick.
  Also the Ragdoll physics are great! 
  You can shoot a dude then he will go flying in the air 
 then drop high in the air then he will look cripled on the floor, this is really a highlight of 
 the gameplay with the bullet-time mode.
  
  Graphics; The graphics are great, rhe bullet-time mode makes it blury and gives it this awsome 
 effect, the faces and models are top class and they look almost real the exspression on there face 
 when you shoot the crap out of them before they die is great, you really feel like your there.
 
  The buildings and the backdrops look good, and the items on the table look great but they look 
 better when there blown to smithereens.
  The gun models look awsome too, in slow-mo you can really see the bullets shooting from the gun 
 and hitting your enemy in the face which gives you a good feel when you see this and it will amaze 
 you.
  
  Sound; The sound on this is awsome, the voice acting from max and mona and various other leading 
 people in the game sound so real not no cheap crappy acter's like from resident-evil 1 ( i still 
 like that game ) The enemy npcs shout to there buddys telling them stuff like '' Hey he is over 
 here! ''
  or '' Its Max!! '' which makes it even more fun killing them.
  
  Value; There is quite alot of value in this game because of the MODS here are a few screenie of 
 some of the few MODS i have installed
  Max-Payne 2 - Kung Fu MOD
  http://img340. imageshack. us/my. php? image=untitled0nh1. png
  http://img395. imageshack. us/my. php? image=untitled10ah. png
 
  Max-Panye 2 - Blood MOD Gold
  http://img395. imageshack. us/my. php? image=untitled24xb. png
  http://img340. imageshack. us/my. php? image=untitled37wd. png
  
  That is it, i hope you enjoyd 
 my review . 
  BTW, I accept all friend request's.
  -Tron
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rikz_westside
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 29, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  Max Payne 2 is what i think the best game of its type, i really enjoy the slow motion effect (Bullet 
 Time) in the game, there are lots of weapons to choose from, i love the ingram, when you keep shooting 
 with bullet time until max reloads the effect is awesome!! My mate breakdownxcore told me max payne 
 3 will be releasing soon so im really excited about it, im sure it will have better graphics and 
 filled with new extra features. I downloaded the bonus chapters for the game, you have to stay 
 alive for as long as you can, the enemies keep reviving. MAY PAYNEIts the COOLEST!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Imrus
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne 2 is a really gr8 game.... with super cinematics and story.... i would highly recomend 
 u to play this... but this game is short.... i played it and finished it in a week.... i xpected it 
 ta be more big.... n e ways... its a SUPERB game actually...
  
  Max and Mona's appereance were great and the action of the bullet on the enemies are improved in 
 max payne 2 that makes the game even more fun.
  But again... it disappointed me when the game ended soon..
  
  But its worht of playin on a week 
 off.... or in a vacation... so get into it and you can also play the harder levels once when you 
 finish the game... that actually helps you get the complicated storyline of the game much more clear... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: litnek
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 25, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  The game has a great story, but the end came too soon. The story was even that good good and exciting 
 I played the game through in a day only. One of the best thing in the game was those comic pics 
 between missions. The combat has been done wery cool and exciting also. That's the only reason 
 you want to play the game many times. The problem is, that the other times the cutscenes and comic 
 pics are starting to piss me off if I have seen them for ten times already. The graphics look quite 
 good also, no problem with them. The music is kinda boring though. I didn't even noticed it was 
 there. The game is basicly made for people who like the cool action and don't care if the game 
 is realistic or not. You can heal yourself with painkillers. How lame is that? It reminds me of 
 the movies where the main character never dies. One cool thing was that you could play with another 
 character in the middle of the game. It ain't my kind of game, but still it's a great game, so 
 i recommend it to anyone who likes action and don't care about if the game is realistic or not. 
 Also if you liked the first game, then buy that game too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceteo012
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 25, 2006 3:09 am PT
Review:  Max Payne returns with better graphics, more of the same in your face action and a gorgeous sidekick 
 to boot. What is there not to like about this game. This time, Max goes up with and against Mona 
 Sax who has perhaps the most sultry personality in FPS history. The John Wooish bullet time effect 
 makes u hanker for more and the graphic comic style presentation is a refreshing turn from your 
 run of the mill FPS. Everything handles superbly in Max Payne 2 and the enemies u kill fall and 
 die realistically (well mostly anyway) . A great game which is now available at bargain price. Grab 
 it if u havent already 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 21, 2006 9:52 pm PT
Review:  The shadowing/lighting.... and graphics are outstanding in this sequel also. I can't believe anyone 
 would say this game sucks! The story was great. What do you expect. The boards were well thought 
 out, and not your couped up in a building game. This game was a little harder than the first, but 
 still on the easy side. The SFX's were great! With the added sniper shot! I hope this is the game 
 I'm thinking about. Another title that I haven't played in awhile, but should return to it. My 
 favorite board was the Fun house. Very creepy in a way. Liked the way the game handled in every 
 aspect. Just wondering what's in store for part 3. This was the Fall of Payne making me think it 
 was the last part of this great series. This game is on the cheap rack... so If I were you I'd pick 
 up a copy. I see it around here for $10-15 now. Not to mention it has a cool case! lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArneZ
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 20, 2006 12:36 pm PT
Review:  "Like all bad things in my life, it started with the death of a woman..." 
  
  There seems to be no end of bad things in Max's life, but we don't mind. Since his explosive debut 
 in 2001's original Max Payne, the title character has had his family murdered, his career shattered, 
 his friends gunned down -- and he's been filled with more bullets than the stockroom of an Appalachian 
 Wal-Mart during hunting season. Through his inner monologue and gravelly voice, we see Max Payne 
 filled with self-doubt and an almost suicidal depression that's more dangerous to his enemies than 
 it is to himself. Somehow, he perseveres, driven by either his anger or want of justice. The end 
 result? Bad guys in bodybags and burning buildings up and down Manhattan ... as well as some of 
 the greatest action gaming you can find on any system. A must buy for any gamer.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HunkAtYourNeck
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 20, 2006 12:49 am PT
Review:  After the first game, Max heads back to the NYPD, but his life has been a train wreck. One night 
 he takes a call about a disturbance near a warehouse. After facing much hostility from the killers 
 occupying the warehouse, he encounters a woman back from the dead. Mona Sax. From then on, the 
 game thrusts the player into a gripping storyline of noir narration about a guilty cop in love 
 with a fugitive killer. The comic book style graphic novel cut-scenes generally tell the most important 
 parts of the story, and star actual actors to convey the characters visual emotions and actions. 
 Boasting excellent acting and a phenomenal musical score, Max Payne 2 is worth buying for the production 
 values alone. It also doesnt hurt that Max Payne 2 uses the revolutionary Havok physics engine 
 and ragdoll. This allows for many of the games objects to be broken, shot, and pushed in a very 
 realistic fashion. Theyll topple and push each other over and such. Its truly amazing. 
  
  Then theres the intense, Bullet-Time based gameplay, similar to the first. It plays like a 
 first person shooter, but with an insanely cool slow-motion twist. You can dive in different directions, 
 or just run around with your guns full blasting. The new and unique addition to the Bullet-Time 
 system is how the game rewards you for consecutive kills. Each time you kill an enemy, the player 
 moves faster in Bullet-Time than the other enemies, and issues a cool rotating spin when reloading. 
 The game looks fantastic, with photo-realistic textures, but the animations could be better, along 
 with lip-synch. Its only about four to eight hours in length, but you earn new gameplay and difficulty 
 modes upon completing the game. Along with the huge modding community, this game should last you 
 a very long time despite its short length. Fantastic in seemingly every aspect, Max Payne 2: The 
 Fall of Max Payne is a game no gamer should go without.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: adema360
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2006 11:17 pm PT
Review:  In this second installment of the series, you once again play as the tragic hero, Max Payne. This 
 is following the events of the original game. You start off investigating a weapons manufacturing 
 facility. The over all story line of this game seems somewhat lacking, it just seems played out, 
 however the game play and graphics are wonderful. Many people have mods for the game where you 
 wear different outfits and there is a different musical score and things such as that, really making 
 the experience allot more diverse and enjoyable. This is one of those games where you can play 
 parts of it over and over again, just because its fun, but if you pay too much attention to the 
 story you start not liking the game. It really is one of the best third person shoots out on the 
 pc and that still even applies today. The game is really long and the levels are well designed 
 and interesting, you may run into a hick up in the game play every now and then but its rare. Over 
 all this game is fun and really worth the 10 or 20 dollars you pay to buy it at the store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g3n3r41xan
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 12, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  I know I'm writing a review on this game late but I just want to express my view on the game.
 
  I only played this game because the first Max Payne was really cool and I wanted to know what 
 happens later on in the story. It turned out that Max Payne 2 is so much better in terms of graphics 
 and game play compared to the first Max Payne and the bullet time mode is so much cooler. The main 
 character Max Payne in Max Payne 2 looks very different and and better than the first one and also 
 the Max Payne in the first one if you look close you can see he has a smily face always on. Well 
 to me it looks like a smily face. But as the first Max Payne, Max Payne 2 is a really cool and 
 fun game to play so if you still haven't had the chance to have a go at this I suggest you do because 
 you wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theumad
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 11, 2006 1:05 am PT
Review:  When I first started playing Max Payne 2 I thought it was going to be easy but then i realised 
 that it wasn't that easy. Max Payne 2 has a very good story line and original story. The comics 
 part is really cool. I love the pics. a lot. I played this game 1, 2 , 3 times. It was so amazing. 
 I hope you like it guys because it's really cool. You can visit my web on  
 This is the best game I ever played. I wish max Payne 3 would be realised soon so that I can buy 
 it. A new movie maxpaynereadaption is going out too. Try downloading a mod for your max apyne2 
 and you will never ever be tired of it. You can download the tools to make your own mods. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beefycake
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 10, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Life can sure have its ups and downs for most people. But for 
  Max Payne. life can sure be painfully bad. 
  The game. MAX PAYNE 2: The Fall of Max Payne, is 
 well the sequel to one
  of the most action packed games to hit the selves... MAX PAYNE. Well to sum up the Story of the 
 first MAX PAYNE ( without ruin the plot or ending) the story is about a former NYPD cop, whose wife 
 and baby daughter were murdered by mad criminals. While going under cover in the DEA, Max is framed 
 for the murder of his boss and now the cops and practically the city wants Max dead. Now Max must 
 figure out this mess, solves crimes and discover a horrible truth about a drug infesting the city, 
 called V. 
  Now back with MAX PAYNE 2.. the story takes place when Max wakes up in the hospital... only to realize 
 that.. He is in trouble once more... PERFECT!! Old characters from the previous MAX PAYNE comeback 
 to haunt Max once more.. and now its seem Max in a difficult situation of choosing to solve the 
 crime or putting someone he hold dear in jeopardy.
  Now the game does offer brand new feature. Once feature is the amazing graphics, the characters, 
 facial expression and environment is very impressive. The sound is great. Ofcourse the main feature 
 of Max Payne is the usage of the great BULLET TIME.. If someof you gamers remember about BULLET 
 time, its just like what you might see in famous Asian action flicks or notably The Matrix, Max 
 does have the ability to dodge them pesky bullets and perform amazing moves while capping hes foes. 
 Now in FAll OF MAX PAYNE.. bullet time can go beyond, the time goes much slower when you killmore 
 enemies, and you can perform even cooler moves ( like spinning around in a 360 rotation... COOL!!!) 
 However the huge downfall of MAX PAYNE 2 is that its even shorter than the first one!!! Probably 
 even shorter than the first MAX PAYNE!! 
  However, that shouldnt stop you guys from trying out this games... still MAX PAYNE 2 is a great 
 game overall.. and frankly i cant wait for MAX PAYNE 3!!!
  
  PROS: Amazing graphics, sound and visuals.. very well scripted.. Great voicing and action packed 
 fights!
  
  CONS: SHORT!! SHORT SHORT!!! The ending was quite disappointing
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: theevildoctor
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 4, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  I'll start saying that, in my opinion, Max Payne 2: The Fall of Max Payne is a little bit better 
 than the previous Max Payne.
  
  The graphics are a whole lot better, every piece of texture is really appreciated. Just look around 
 in any chapter/level and you'll find even the minimun detail in every object.
  The weapons look great, look at them really close and you'll notice really well done textures.
 
  
  The maps, well, just excellent. These create the perfect atmosphere for the game and every chapter, 
 from the little amusement park to the various different apartments for every single character.
 
  
  Gameplay... I think it's the same as in the previous Max Payne. It's still fantastic, the famous 
 bullet-time looks even better. The only missing thing are the puzzles... I remember that MP1 had 
 more puzzles.
  
  As for the sound, well... the sound is really cool, combined with the maps it creates (again!) 
 the perfect atmosphere for every situation Max must confront (in most cases it relates to killing 
 mobsters :P)
  
  It has been said that MP2 is a really short game and that it doesn't matches with it's monetary 
 value (when it was released) I feel the obligation to say: People!!! The game is not just about 
 killing hundreds
  of people with your fantastic weapons!!! It's all about the story!!! For God's sake, the story 
 is the principal theme of this game!!! The tragedy, the romance, the depressive life of Max, the 
 search for an answer,
  the irony, everything!
  
  I once read a guy's comment complaining about the comic... holy *%!?, I couldn't believe what I 
 have just read that day. The comic story is like the axis of the game. Without it the story wouldn't 
 be able to be told.
  It's one of the game's awesome features!!!
  Besides, and what if you finished the game in 2 days? Play it again in a harder difficulty to prove 
 yourself you are a great player, it may have been easy the first time but it wont be the 2nd. time... 
 and if you don't want to "swallow" the whole tale again, just play in the Dead Man Walking mode 
 and I assure you will have lots of fun. You can download a lot of DMW maps if you want to have 
 even more fun!!!
  
  In conclusion, this game and the story guarantees you will sit down in your chair for hours until 
 you finish it :) A real shame that a 3rd. part is almost impossible.
  Sorry for the grammatical mistakes, I'm still learning English xD
  If you don't have it, go and 
 buy it... if you do have it, play it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pavel_btn
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 23, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  OK, Max Payne 2: The Fall Of Max Payne is certainly a smash hit in the contemporary game world. 
 It concentrates on a few gameplay and visual aspects and scores exceedingly high in these. The 
 game plays and looks stunning, better than the original. This is how I would rate it:
  1. - Video. Absolutely unbelievable graphics and superb Physics engine set the base for the genius 
 of this game. The way objects fall when knocked over and bodies fly through the air when shot - 
 so impressive! With a good graphics card you absolutely must turn all settings to the maximum to 
 experience the thrill ride of a lifetime.
  2. - Audio. Im actually not greatly impressed ny the audio, but believe it or not, in this game 
 audio doesn't seem that vital and what you get is good enough, it seems. Voice acting is OK, not 
 great, gunfire is also OK and the music is really rare in this (short) game, so it isn't a big 
 deal.
  3. - Gameplay and Difficulty. Ah..... The enemy AI is tolerable and they will occasionally kill 
 you, but overall, the game is WAY TOO EASY. It is true. You have a blinding advantage over your 
 foes. The bullet time in this game is actually too overhyped. It make Max into some kind of a superman. 
 I've completed the game on the hardest difficulty and, frankly, all difficulties are so easy and 
 not much different from each other. Your enemies just don't stand a chance when you switch on Bullet 
 Time, as simple as that.
  However, this isn't necessarily a bad thing. The game is so SHORT, its unbelievable. It is much 
 shorter than the original, may be because it is much easier and you simply breeze through the levels 
 (25 or so short levels altogether) . Other than that, the game has little replay value, no multiplayer, 
 some MODS are available for download if you have time, they are OK and are similar to the original 
 Max Payne Mods.
  The main character is actually a different voice actor than the original Max. Plus, this time around 
 Max looks a lot different in the cutscenes. To me, it doesn't have the same appeal as Max Payne 
 1. But it is not a significant critique.
  To sum up, Max Payne 2 must not be missed by any shooter fan, or even any serious gamer. It is 
 really COOL, so Stylish, so Slick.. It is TOO SHORT and EXTREMELY EASY, but in the few precious 
 hours of gameplay you will experience of of the most spectacular and mindblowing action and shooting 
 sequences known in videogaming. 9.0/10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-Strike
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 22, 2006 12:27 am PT
Review:  Pros: Max is back! The story continues and this time max gets some help, from a lady! All the good 
 things from Part 1 are back and that means that the bad things like the dream scenes are removed. 
 The story is longer, better en more complex. The graphics are somewhat the same, but it wasn't 
 a bad engine after all. If you liked the first one you really gonna like this one, all those psychic 
 wierd levels are back and are more fun to play. 
  
  Cons: If you didn't like Part 1, i suggestyou let this go. It just doesn't gives that much extra. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sefpayne
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 19, 2006 11:02 am PT
Review:  Max Payne 2 has all the great gameplay and story elements that the first game has but taking it 
 to a whole new buff level. The original bullet time has been included in the sequel as well as 
 a new version. This new version allows you to slow down time with a clik of a button whilst you 
 move in real time. Each enemy you kill in this state, slows down time more and so on. This is an 
 incredibly cool feature because you are capable of running around shooting whilst you see dead 
 bodies flying very slowly in mid-air. Its just a massively fun feeling.
  
  The dailogues were a great part of the first game and now made sooooo much better. The music in 
 the background, the sin city type escence to it is just breathtaking. The only donwfall is the 
 games length and its difficulty. The game is suprisngly short to play through which you could probably 
 do in one sitting but can be very difficlut at times to make you get frustrated and turn your PC 
 off. Other then these flaws, you will end up loving Max Payne 2 if you loved the first one.
  
  It is now available on the xbox and ps2 as well so any of those who havnt got a PC or simply 
 havnt got a great graphics processor, check in out on the consoles. It is incredibly fun and satistfying 
 for the short duration that it lasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madsoul2
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 17, 2006 5:33 am PT
Review:  I love this game SOO much! It's got everything in it: a good story, great soundtrack, incredible 
 graphics and the gameplay it's just awsome!! I cant see anything that's bad about this game. Sam 
 Lake is a genius! I want to see a movie directed by him! It would be so cool... This game and the 
 first one is one of my favorite games of all time. To bad the game is so short.. :P But I can play 
 over and over again so I dont really care! 
  
  I really recommend this game to everybody! 
  
  "The past is a gaping hole. You try to run from 
 it, but the more you run, the deeper it grows behind you, its edges yawning at your heels. Your 
 only chance is to turn around and face it. But it's like looking down into the grave of your love, 
 or kissing the mouth of a gun, a bullet trembling in its dark nest, ready to blow your head off. 
- Max Payne 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krisalid
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 16, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  I was curious how can continue this lunatic curse of revenge of a desperate man who lost his family 
 and the sense of life itself.
  
  Max Payne is a name that sounds like a mystic in the ears of many gamers and in this sequel many 
 things will want to keep you finishing this game.
  
  After two years from the first appearance the most depressive hero of video games wears his coat 
 and finds himself in a new adventure and again we dont know much from the begining.
  Transferred from the drugs section to homicides, Max takes on a strange gang that eliminates their 
 targets one by one.
  Alerted by a neighbour our Max get himself in a ware house and discovers death bodies, explosives 
 and a full arsenal that will satisfy even the tastes of mafia of anykind. Besides the bodies and 
 explosives he finds some guys dressed up in plubmers who are used to take care of things in John 
 Woo or Luc Besson style :)
  Some bodies later Max finds a sexy woman with the name of Mona Sax (watch the spelling :)
  They 
 look to be travelers in the same train of troubles but at some point they decide to cooperate.
 
  After a carnage they are some consequences: surprised in in murder in company of a runaway woman.
 
  To make his warm up Max has the bad habit to put himself in the worst situations and often we 
 get to have good fun from this wonderful game.
  In this second part he's armed to the teeth with weapons we wished in the first  
 has to go in some levels like a building, a playhouse (awesome) and building sites making his moves 
 with the awesome bullet time.
  To bad in The Fall of Max Payne the game is shorter than the first but hey we get to play with 
 Mona and the game play is the same or even better.
  
  The sounds and the graphics are good, the music contributes to the sad, breakable atmosphere even 
 the voice of Max remains the same and the rest of the cast completes the picture.
  The game is full in violence and we get some sex scenes (18+) . Anyway Max Payne is a jewel with good 
 scenario and lots of action.
  
  The Good:
  -intense action; movie scenario
  -splendid making
  -modest requirements
  
  The Bad:
  -too short; linear to the bones
  
 
  Waiting for three part :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orasion_Seiz
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 19, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne 2: The Fall of Max Payne is the sequel to the highly rated action, film noir game Max 
 Payne. On this game you still play as Max Payne but he is no longer with the DEA, he is now working 
 for he NYPD to clean the city of its dangerous crimes. But as you play you will bump to Mona Sax, 
 Payne's love interest during the first game who is apparently a murder supect now and knows alot 
 fo Payne's dark past.
  
  Even though its been a few years since the original game, the style and gameplay has never change 
 at all. Not to mention the balance of the storyline and the presentation of the conversations. 
 The thing i most love in he game is the gameplay itself. Max can shoot and aim at his enemies accurately 
 well of course thanks to his ability to slow time (Matrix style) . His skills have improve now, 
 the shootdodge move has been made an option now, but this is still very usefull from time to time. There 
 are now more weapons to use and also some projectiles like grenades and molotov's to help you dispose 
 long range enemies. 
  
  The graphics is still the same novel, comic type graphic with good voicovers and dialouges. It is 
 perfectly well balance to fit the main story and gameplay.
  Most people know that sequels doesnt live to everyones expectaion quickly, but not this one. Guns 
 maybe fun and everyone knows that. This game is just pure pleasure for those trying to find a game 
 that will take them into reality. Amazingly this game is one of the finest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asadNAWABI
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 9, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  Max payne 2 is a game with a feeling of the old game as well as excellently done new features.
 
  We play as max payne in the game. He is a member of NYPD. The game starts with max payne lying 
 on a hospital bed. In his course of story he gets involved with a criminal named MONA. mona is beautiful 
 and smart lady. actually max gets in love with her . 
  The graphics are cool . if u ve got a good pc then they surely gonna rock . We will see some in 
 side as well as some outside environments. The best element in the game is its gameplay. The same 
 old slowmotion kills and diving shots as well as some rotating shots. there are a lot of weapons 
 to choose from . including machine guns , dual pistols , ingram (dual as well) . , sniper rifels 
 ,shot guns, and abit more. In game physics are one of the best i ve seen . For example if u get a 
 chair in ur way u can drag it with u all yhe way in the room .Sound is not so good but still compromisable 
 with all other components so well done. 
  All in all its a game worth getting for the fans of action and story driven games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthragar
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  yep Rockstar is the best gaming company out there. GTA games, Manhunt, and all Max Payne games will 
 get sales. time for the Max Payne 2 review. gameplay is awesome. bullet time grabs u in good positions 
 for easy shots. diving to the sides, forward, or backwards will help anyway too. and the story, well, 
 seems so good u must beat the part to see the next part of the story. graphics lookin good. these 
 are real nice for a 2003 game. honestly, these are close to Far Cry graphics. sound is great. they 
 have great conversations that u definitely wanna hear. at a really cheap value now this is no-brainer. 
 its getting a 9 to 10. nuff' said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kakashi1991
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  This game is great, the rag dolls are great, the story line great, the bullet time is great, everything 
 about it is great, apart from the fact that there are few mods out there for it... The rag dolls 
 are much better than anything i've seen in any game, unreal's rag dolls fly away at the slightest 
 touch, and go into strange positions (foot goes through head, half of the body goes through the 
 ground etc.) while these seem much more realistic and responsive. The guns are suberb, the bullets 
 make the rag dolls move backward and flip etc. The best thing about the game is it's style, the 
 shoot dodge and bullet time are one of the best features of this game, and make that much better 
 than most 3rd person games and even first person shooters.
  
  Buy this game. Especially now that its about 7.99 in england, dunno about America tho :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Viper
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 6, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  I am referring to "Return to Sender: Address Unknown", one of the surreal TV shows that Max repeatedly 
 comes across on his adventures in Max Payne 2: The Fall of Max Payne. It is subtle background elements 
 such as these comedic TV shows that seem to have a new episode in each chapter of the game, or 
 the fact that irrelevant background items such as sinks can be manipulated that make Max Payne 
 2 so special. It highlights how much care has been taken by the developers to create a fully immersive, 
 detailed game.
  
  In terms of gameplay, Max Payne 2 is very similar to the original. Enemies will come at you, and 
 you must dispatch them. The enemies AI is still very high, and they will act in realistic ways 
 during their quest to end your one man crusade for justice. Except that it is no longer a one man 
 crusade, as Max is joined by Mona Sax, the attractive assassin that has seemingly returned from 
 the dead to bring renegade members of the mysterious Inner Circle to account. 
  
  The introduction of Mona as a playable character is done with great style seeing as in numerous 
 situations Max and Mona will be separated in different parts of the same huge environment, and 
 you are required to play through the same events from both of their perspectives. This is a neat 
 touch and gives some of the key events in the story a more complete feeling.
  
  Visually, Max Payne 2 is almost flawless, much like its predecessor. Credit must once again go 
 to Remedy for creating a graphically stunning game. All of the main characters appearances have 
 changed fairly significantly (in some cases for the better, in some for the worst) , and the environments 
 are even more detailed and realistic than they were in the original. Almost all the environments 
 can be manipulated through gun fire, and much as in Max Payne 1, the devastation left after some 
 gunfights is truly incredible. Empty shells and corpses litter the floor, with blood and bullet 
 holes all over the walls - the game is certainly not for the young or immature.
  
  The concept of bullet time is used again, and while it looks better, it is a bit overused in this 
 sequel. Max seems to have access to it too much, meaning that few battles are particularly challenging. 
 Only the interesting and very tricky final battle will really test the majority of gamers. Once 
 again the game uses the self-adjusting difficulty level, that keeps the entertainment value high 
 by never allowing the game to become too difficult. However, with bullet time being so readily 
 available the self-adjusting difficulty level never quite sets the challenge high enough though.
 
  
  The graphic novel from the original is used again, but with some minor aesthetic tweaks. These 
 work in its favour, and unsurprisingly it looks wonderful. The script is as melodramatic as fans 
 of the original would have hoped for, and the voice acting is spot-on once again. There are loads 
 of genuinely funny moments in the game that can be found by listening to the enemy's conversations 
 before you burst in on them with your dual Berettas blazing. In fact, I turned on subtitles simply 
 so that I wouldn't miss these little conversations, as it is these along with the TV shows and 
 interactive environments that really highlight Remedy's attention to detail. It is this that makes 
 their games a pleasure to play.
  
  However, unlike the original I can pick a few faults with Max Payne 2. Firstly, and most obviously 
 it is way too short. Not every game will keep you entertained for weeks first time around, but 
 two days to complete a game is verging on the ridiculous. And it is such a wonderful game that 
 it deserves to go on far longer! My other complaint is a relatively minor thing, and that is that 
 the catch up story and start up movies refused to work properly. They were jerky and the sound 
 and graphics were both intermittent. I had no problems during the actual game, but I was mildly 
 irritated with these problems. Considering that my PC is fast, has a lot of RAM and at the time 
 my graphics card was almost top of the range, I was annoyed to run into technical problems. 
  
  On the whole though this is a fantastic game, and a good follow up to a classic game. It doesn't 
 differ that much from it's predecessor, however it is just that little bit more stylish. The mission 
 is stupidly short though, but thanks to the added difficulty levels it does have good replay value. 
 And you will replay it many times, believe me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nicolas1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 3, 2006 4:58 am PT
Review:  Max Payne 2 offers an indescribable experience. The story is so nice that it wouldn't surprise 
 me if i saw it on the big screen. It also has really good graphics and nice physics. It doesn't 
 last long and sound isn't one of it's hard points but lets see things more practically. No game 
 has offered me the same satisfaction to see the enemy fall down after a deadly headshot or getting 
 blown up by a grenade or even burned.
  Furthermore, i didnt care about the story too much concerning first person or third person shooters 
 till now! Its story is so nice written.
  
  Also this game is very agile meaning that after you finish it on different difficulty levels, so 
 many good mods have been made that offer you the same excitement that the game offered you the 
 first time you played it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razorboyrack
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 29, 2006 12:27 am PT
Review:  i would like yo play it there's some secret in it i like the dectetive mode thats confusing and 
 is wonderful to find out whats next all we have to do is just find out something amazing to proceed 
 while we proceed in to deep action and fun so far easy to enjoy. he could only a small jumping 
 no extra powers to perform and is thrill to shoot stupid **** cleaners and other fools. mona that 
 sexy girl is exciting. the payne is also a **** having fun with that girl fool. i would like to 
 shoot down all crazy stupids who dont know to shoot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hitman9
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2006 12:32 am PT
Review:  Max Payne 2: The Fall of Max Payne Is not so bad how look first time if you like comics this game 
 is for you had play . But if you don't play Max Payne too you dont feel a really film. I think 
 this game have to do the film becouse the shoots guns Vlad who first is your friend after that 
 he is biggest criminal who he what to kill you . Sound is perfekt value too game play too a dont 
 know that is so bad for this game . SO play play this game but dont forget Mona thif she you can 
 play too maybe she even beter? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bacall133
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2006 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Although the games work the same way I must say, Max Payne: 2 grows on an already great concept. 
 The fact that Max's family was killed gives the game a good excuse for the insane violence and 
 the violence is really attention grabbing and realistic. Overall the story is more complex (which 
 is a good thing) and the everything is better. One thing that it does't have though is the same 
 articulate dialog. Still the characters are memorable the dialog is still dark and foreboding and 
 the enemies are hilarious!! I STRONGLY RECOMMEND YOU PLAY THIS GAME!!
  
  The thing keeps telling me that I don't have enough words!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunwn
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 24, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  We all know how good the first Max Payne was. It was a rollercoaster ride; we fell in love, we 
 investigated and then we killed. In the same sense, Max Payne 2 keeps this immersive quality. Throughout 
 the game we're gripped. Will Mona kiss or kill max ? 
  
  The developers have obviously spent alot of time thinking about the story. I found it to be deeply 
 interesting - I was completely engrossed in what would happen; I wasn't too worried about who the 
 real baddie was.. it was concern for the relationship between Max and Mona. Freaky eh? I blame the 
 story writer. Max Payne 2 can easily be compared to a movie - We don't want to leave it halfway 
 through because of how the game grabs us. I do feel that perhaps those gamers who don't have much 
 concern for storylines will perhaps feel that it can be hard to follow. Maybe this applies to those 
 that haven't played the first game too. However, I wouldn't say its much of a negative point; beating 
 the game isn't the end - the other difficulty settings and game modes (such as Dead On Arrival) 
 will ensure that any confusions on the story evaporate fast. 
  
  The weaponary in the game is standard - as usual, I found myself using only 2 weapons throughout 
 the whole game. However, that could just be a personal thing. Being an avid Counter-Strike player, 
 I like my headshots and as such I only used the weapon with the most accuracy. Sound in the game 
 is amazing; sound of shells dropping, chairs flying and shooting different materials all seems 
 to be extremely realistic. And just like the first game, the music suits the game perfectly. That 
 old experience we all felt of darkness and loneliness in the first game makes a comeback and brings 
 back old memories as soon as the game's theme tune kicks in. 
  
  The game could have been more diverse with its range of locations. Not that the current locations 
 aren't good. Far from it. The level of detail is astounding and you'll spend hours grenading stuff 
 just to see how it flies, however, having new, different and exciting environments could have added 
 so much more. 
  
  Another point I'm going to quibble about are the enemy character models. Apart from the very few 
 major characters in the game, everyone else looks just the same. All the baddies wear the same 
 clothes, have the same height etc. 
  
  Oh, and the length of the game. /Me shakes a grenade at Remedy. Why oh why is the game so short! 
 What were they thinking! Still, having said that, I'd still have bought the game had I known how 
 *short* it actually was. It only took me 7/8 hours of gameplay time to complete. We can't have 
 everything I guess. Max Payne 2 is definately a good game. The new bullet time is definlatey as 
 good as the old one was - even better thanks to the wonderful Havok physics engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nauman_97
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2006 12:18 am PT
Review:  max payne 2 one of my favourites . max payne 2 is a game with a feeling of the old game as well 
 as excellently done new features.
  we play as max payne in the game. he a member of NYPD. the game starts with max payne lying on a 
 hospital bed. in his course of story he gets involved with a criminal named MONA. mona is beautiful 
 and smart lady. actually max gets in love with her . 
  GRAPHICS: the graphics are cool . if u ve got a good pc then they surely gonna rock . we will see 
 some in side as well as some outside environments.
  GAMEPLAY: the best element in the game . the same old slowmotion kills and diving shots as well 
 as some rotating shots. there are a lot of weapons to choose from . including machine guns , dual 
 pistols , ingram (dual as well) . , sniper rifels ,shot guns, and abit more.
  PHYSICS: in game physics are one of the best i ve seen . for example if u get a chair in ur way 
 u can drag it with u all yhe way in the room . i used to pile up some chairs and boxes and then 
 throw a granade in to this pile and see the effect when the bomb goes off
  SOUND: not so good but still compromisable with all other components so well done. 
  ENDING COMMENT: 
 its a game worth getting for the fans of action and story driven games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eee_master
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 17, 2006 12:54 pm PT
Review:  I applaud Rockstar for making a more than successful follow up tot he Max Payne series. 
  
  Sam Lake's Writing of the story for its sequel is brilliant (Although Short) but enjoyed. The Person 
 Acting as MAx Payne's Voice was back as well (Something I was very happy about) . Unfortunately 
 I was not very happy with the actor that portrayed Max Payne. Sam Lake's Look was a lot better 
 but I guess they were looking for someone more proffessional looking lol.
  
  The Game play is great and I have found the gameplay to be both smooth and easy. I Specifically 
 liked the fact that the gameplay was shared between Mona and Max. 
  
  The arsenal selection was great as well. (Dual Desert Eagles Rock!) . The only thing I hated was 
 the fact the game was waaaaay too short. I wish there would have been an expansion or something 
 for the game. But one thing still puzzles me on this one: When Wil Max Payne 3 Come out like the 
 game promises? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ben_grasso
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 14, 2006 2:10 am PT
Review:  In Max Payne, Max was hurt and had nothing to loose. He took on every level with a somewhat angry 
 yet humorous face seeking revenge and answers.
  
  In this sequel its not much different, hes still looking for answers. He's now driven by a new 
 love and lust in this action packed sequel. The slow mo is now different and takes on a new artsy 
 look, going for style. detail in not only the graphics but the world around you has improved. From 
 new episodes of lords and ladies to listening to a recording of Max calling Dangerous Liaisons. 
 The physics engine is also awesome, watching bodies and objects fly around after throwing a grenade 
 into them is somewhat satisfying.
  
  Its a fufilling shooter that has heaps of replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bardockkun
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 10, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  The first Max Payne basically suffered from plenty of problems, but it was still a good game. 
 
  
  Max Payne 2 improves basically on everything that was troubling the first one. First thing it does 
 is actually give a good story. No more satanic cults, no more junkies that sound like the stabbing 
 robot Roberto from Futurama, no, instead you get a kick ass experience that ends too soon.
  
  First things first, bullet time has greatly changed from the first Max Payne. It's no longer 
 diving moves as much as normal movement (for the most part) that gets better when you kill more 
 people. Not to mention the bullet time meter now recharges on its own so it doesnt stop the fun.
 
  
  The storyline is a true noir story this time around (all except for the baseball bat mascot, but 
 ill let it slide) . It actually doesn't make you think to yourself "with a name like Max Payne, 
 no wonder it's hi-larious!"
  
  So if you've been scorned by the first Max Payne or need a good action game then go for the Fall 
 of Max Payne. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JJMikhail
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 9, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  After playing the first max payne, I had my own ideas on how the next one would pan. Another scandal 
 or consipiracy, quiting the force and going undercover and so forth. There were so many they could 
 of picked from, in this case, they picked right.
  
  The story has so many twists to the plot that it failed in turning me away from the game but instead, 
 to enjoy the gameplay, adore the graphics, hike up the sound and be entertained with the storyline. 
 A tap on the back should be given to these guys and a lesson to all at how you should be making 
 sequels and in fact making them better.
  
  The graphics are amazing to say the least, the Characters realism has been hiked up with Max Payne's 
 injuries showing as the game progresses, more interaction with Characters and other objects. The 
 lighting as well as the cutscenes have really, from time to time, turned the game into a movie, 
 just like the first Max Payne.
  
  The sound, leaving sound effects to one side, the story is told very well, its clear, simple and 
 easy to follow, I would find it hard for someone to find something either stupid or confusing, 
 its fascinating and I wonder why on earth there has not been a movie on this yet. The Characters 
 voices play their part in the cutscenes giving you an idea on what is going on, bit by bit, Max 
 Payne 2 achieves this in the finest quality yet in all other games, you simply do not see this.
 
  
  I strongly recommend that, like all others with sequels, the first Max Payne because you will get 
 this game the instant you finish the first one. A thrill to play, watch and complete, I heard theres 
 a third one and I say, "Bring it on." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiatebake
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 8, 2006 4:04 am PT
Review:  Max payne 2 is one of those games that you will love the instant you start to play it, it's pure 
 genius.
  
  The grapics are good, the enemies won't fly in the walls too often and in bullet-time (slow motion, 
 like in the matrix) it; s very nice when bullets come at you.
  it's also a real treat to see enemies fly trough boxes and tables, this part of the game is really 
 well made and it made me play trough the game over and over again. (i know, i'm sick)
  
  The sound is great, especially the menu music.
  
  The game is way too short, and even on the 
 hardest setting you fly past the enemies.
  
  This will propably be a problem, but they've tryed to resolve it with having an ''infinity'' mode, 
 where the bad guys just keep on coming.
  
  The level design is pretty much great aside from some levels in the beginning.
  
  Buy this 
 game, it will give you many hours of joy. (if you're busy, give up these strange activities called 
 eating and sleeping)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: game06
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 7, 2006 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Beautiful storyline. Yet again Remedy Entertainments creation is worth experiencing. One of the 
 best games i have ever played and still playing it more even though I have completed it more than 
 10 times. I recommend gamers to play this game. Excellent graphic effects and physics engine seems 
 more realistic. Although the game is short which of course was dissappointing, but i still think 
 its one of the best. If Max Payne 3 comes i recommend Rockstar games to not put in bullet time 
 since it makes the game too easy and the duration too short. Bullet time gives you too much advantage 
 and makes the games realistic value go down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lokirth_Typhoon
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 6, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  I was a pretty big fan of the first Max Payne. It was the graphic novel-film noir style that drew 
 me in. The story and over the top violence kept me in place. The game had a stranglehold on me. 
 I wasn't complaining one bit. It was, however, a little short, and it felt a tad bit unresolved. 
 This is why I was ecstatic to hear about a sequal in the works some time after. It was a long wait, 
 but I really think the end result is worth it. Max Payne 2 delivers on pretty much every level 
 with a great story, wonderful style, that same cinematic flare of the first in the series, and, 
 of course, blood and guns. Hehehehehe....
  
  We'll start with graphics, the first thing that you'll be noticing when you play this game. Upon 
 starting play, the first thing you'll see is a nice graphic novel sequence, much like those in 
 MP1, except animated a little better. Your hopes are high from the start. Then you see the game 
 and you wonder what's happened to Max. No longer is he the ever-constipated antihero from the first 
 game. No, this time he looks realistic. It's simply wonderful. The graphics are beautifully realistic. 
 It is all too easy to tell that Remedy was serious about delivering a quality gaming experience 
 the second time round, and not just churning out another cheasy sequel. Bullet time, a staple of 
 the first game, comes back with full force in MP2, and it has become arguably better. The developers 
 have done more with the graphics engine to better display the effects of bullet time. The screen 
 blurs, warps a little, and takes on a sepia-toned hue, remeniscent of all those old gritty film-noirs. 
 Simply beautiful.
  
  Onto the gameplay. Max Payne 2: The Fall of Max Payne uses the Havok physics engine, seen most 
 recently in Half-Life 2. Almost everything in the environment is interactive, from little cardboard 
 boxes to ladders and brooms, even bookshelves a little later on. Ammo clips and empty guns can 
 be thrown across the room by a powerful explosion, easily unleashed by one of the many grenades 
 you'll find at your fingertips. Bullet time and shootdodge, Max's signature Matrix-style slow-mo 
 dive through the air, have also been augmented to better suit the action-crime-drama-film-noir 
 look and feel and to better keep you in the game. Instead of using the bullet time toggle button 
 (default right mouse button) while walking to jump straight into a shootdoge, you know use the 
 shift button, meaning if all you want is to slow down time to look at your surroundings before 
 plunging into a frantic gunfight, you can do so without worry of accidentally diving into enemy 
 fire. The new mechanic serves the gameplay so well, it's hard to go back to the first Max Payne 
 after you've tried it. The developers, with the advent of Havok, have implemented a ragdoll physics 
 system for corpses in the game, meaning that when your targets die, their corpses become as interactive 
 as the many objects strewn about the area. The dead bodies react to where they are shot, so a shot 
 to the leg will do what it is safe to assume it will do in real life, other than the whole dismemberment 
 thing. The ragdoll engine also makes the use of grenades much more interesting. You'll see your 
 unlucky victims soar through the air in a chaotic spiral and then plummet to the the ground, bouncing 
 and bending when they collide with various objects. This physics engine has also been implemented 
 not only to enemies, but to Max himself and most every character in the game. It makes losing the 
 game much more interesting when suffering death at the hands of somebody with an uzi, especially 
 when you fall from up high. Some people have complained about the ragdoll physics, saying they 
 make the game look goofy sometimes, but I believe they help add to the movie-like quality of the 
 game. Anyway... too much time has been spent here... Onto the sound.
  
  Like the previous game in the series, Max Payne 2 has very high production values on every front. 
 The voice acting and music are no different. Remedy hired top-notch New York voice actors to play 
 the parts of the characters. They add something to the game that just feels right. The music is 
 simply brilliant. Max Payne's theme song is performed by a Finish band called Poets of the Fall, 
 who I've simply fallen in love with. The lead singer's voice, it's just so perfect for the game, 
 and the lyrics were written by none other than Sam Lake, the lead designer for the series and also 
 the model for the first Max Payne game. Guns sound realistic, explosions are represented with near 
 speaker-shattering force, glass breaks with such intensity in slow-mo, and surround-sound, for 
 those who have a setup capable of it, is nothing short of wonderful. The team has really gone over 
 the top with the sound in this game. It's so near perfect, I can't believe I'm seeing this in a 
 game, especially in a game released two years ago. It's the same amazement I went through on my 
 run through the first game. Wonderful production quality.
  
  Now, value. The game is far too short, for one thing. It suffers that same mistake the first made. 
 You can finish the story in about ten hours if you plow through it and don't take your time with 
 the gunfights. The load times, as a result of the ramped up graphics and great voice acting, I 
 suppose, are almost unbearable. Too long for a pc title. I'd hate to see what they're like on the 
 PS2. The game is easy to learn, hard to master, like golf, I guess you could say. It starts you 
 off pretty easy, but at the onset of the second level it has you taking on rooms filled with up 
 to four gun-wielding enemies, usually all behind cover and with Max sitting out in the open. This 
 provides you with a testosterone-filled rush for cover, and thus safety. Situations can be approached 
 any way, limited pretty much only by your immagination. The only thing is, your play style has 
 to be extremely good in some situations, good enough to match the scenario that unfolds afterward. 
 You may find yourself cursing your immagination. But I've gotten off track. The game is short. 
 That's where I was going. Too short, I would say, to pay $60 for at Staples. I would immagine the 
 price has dropped now, but that's what I payed for it the day it came out. Big mistake. Luckily, 
 you're given a bit of replay value. When you complete the main game, you unlock a few scenarios, 
 a survival mode, a time attack mode, and more difficulties with which to play through the story 
 again.
  
  Overall Max Payne 2: The Fall of Max Payne is a great game, though it suffers the same downfall 
 of the first in the series, it's just too short to really get attached to for long. You'll play 
 through it once, maybe twice, enjoy your time with it, and be done. That's really all that can 
 be said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bonfi315
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 5, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  max payne was a great game with a great story, but max payne 2 is the perfect game with the perfect 
 story. when you finish the game you will want to start again and again and again till' you get 
 bored (i doubt it)
  
  max payne 2 combines a noir love story with some kick-ass gun fights, the basic story is that max: 
 a detective in new york city finds himself in the middle of a mob-war, somebody is whipping out 
 the competition in the black market gun-trade and while solving the case, he will discover things 
 of his past, and another disturbing things about the people he knows, including mona sax, a professional 
 killer who falls in love with max, and also his so called best friend vladimir lem.
  
  the reason why it's so great to play MP2 is the sound, one of the best in all pc games, in MP2 
 you can use a ability called bullet-time (something like matrix, but this slows you down too) and 
 when activated, you hear max's hearth beating while dozens of bullets are flying in the air and 
 with every mobster you kill, the deeper and slower the bullet-time effect goes.
  
  the only bad thing about MP2 is that the story is wonderful but short, but in each scenario you'll 
 find out why the game its so realistic (not including the bullet-time) , before you start shooting 
 your enemies and if they have'nt noticed your presence, you'll hear them talking about their lives, 
 their families, even of you, so if you pay attention and take your time to listen every conversation 
 you'll get more involved in the game.
  
  so, what are you waiting for? go and buy this game right now and thank me later, there are some 
 things in MP2 that even the best reviewer cant describe, so go find them out yourself 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ksyme99
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 30, 2005 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne was one of the first first person shooters I ever played. And what a place to start. 
 it was fast paced (or slow paced with the highly original bullet-time) and brought what a lot of 
 games were missing previously - STORY! 
  
  Max Payne 2 is even better in my opinion. It combines good graphics and very effective sounds to 
 give the whole experience that extra edge. The story was gripping, and I played it mainly to find 
 out what happens - and thank god the gameplay was as good as the original. Bullet-time is back 
 and helps make sense of the hugely chaotic fights you can find yourself in. There is nothing like 
 diving into a room and taking down three guys before you even touch the floor.
  
  With Mona back in the fray, Max gets some sort of hope... and getting to play as her and see Max 
 doing stuff you did while playing him, is pretty nice. The ending is perfect. Some won't like it, 
 but it is what is meant to be (feel free to discuss it on the Max Payne union forums) .
  
  My only annoyances are that one mission where you had to protect someone was very difficult, compared 
 to all the others, and I felt this stopped the flow of the game. The other thing was it was too 
 short! I don't think I would ever find a Max Payne game that wasn't too short, but this really 
 felt like you were just getting into the swing of things when it ended.
  
  Overall, this is one of the best games you can play... and an excellent place for beginers to shooters... I 
 just hope Max Payne 3 can be just as good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTOCTOCTO
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2005 9:12 am PT
Review:  So it really comes down to what you expect to get out of a $50 investment in a PC game. Everything 
 about this game is absolutely top quality: in my testing I didn't spot any bugs or compatibility 
 problems, it runs silky smooth, and even the packaging is slick and well-designed. Nowadays, when 
 a 90-minute movie and snacks can run you nearly $20 bucks, the eight hours or more of top-notch 
 gameplay that Payne serves up is starting to look like a bargain. The action in Max Payne 2 is 
 as adrenaline-pumping as anything you'd see on the silver screen, and you're in control. Or dangerously 
 close to spiraling out of control, as Max often is. Despite the length, this is top-quality entertainment. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dEaThAwAiTs013
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2005 2:46 pm PT
Review:  The sequel to one of the most groundbreaking action games of 2001 is all that a fan would hope 
 for it to be. The graphics are excellent, the storyline is just as dark and gritty, and the gameplay 
 is still exhilarating. 
  You play the game as Max Payne, who in the original game tackled the mob and a corrupt politician 
 and won. This time, Max has quit the DEA and rejoined the NYPD. The story is told through the same 
 graphic novel display and it goes with the game very well. 
  The graphics in this game definitely shine. Character models are highly detailed, environments 
 are beautiful, and the particle effects are explosive. I didn't really like the in-engine cutscenes, 
 but it's a good thing that there aren't too many of those. And Max no longer has the constipated 
 look on his face, which is both a good and bad thing. 
  The cast from the original game have all reprised their roles in this sequel, and the new characters 
 are just as good. The soundtrack is also superb. Gun shots all sound accurate, too. 
  The gameplay is what made Max famous, and it's back in this sequel. You can rolldodge out of the 
 way of bullets, play as different characters, and this time you have some backup in some of the 
 missions. And, of course, Bullet Time is back. When in this mode, the screen takes on a grainy 
 effect and time is slowed down, but Max can still aim in real-time. The more enemies you kill in 
 rapid succession, the faster you move. And if you kill an enemy and then reload right away, Max 
 performs a cool-looking spin which is like an exclamation point to the killing. It's really cool 
 to see, and even cooler to do. 
  The game is actually shorter than the original, coming in at just under 10 hours, but considering 
 how much fun I had during the first play-through, I was more than willing to play it a second time 
 on a harder difficulty. 
  Overall, Max Payne 2: The Fall of Max Payne is an excellent action game that any fan of the original, 
 or action games in general, should play immediately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 28, 2005 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Like other sequels, this one manages to change the feel of the original. The interface feels different, 
 and it looks like it should be played on a console, not a PC. The original felt very detailed and 
 makes the graphics appear sharp, but this makes it look somewhat dreamy. The Max Payne character 
 was a failed English major who sounded like a tough guy put looked like a boy in the original, 
 now he's back looking more macho but with still the over-the-top verbage. His infatuation with 
 Mona is just too much, that guy needs to get a life and stop being so obsessed. The story isn't 
 bad and the length isn't bad either. With all the reviews saying how short it was, I kept thinking 
 that after every level past the 3rd one, that this was it, it's over. No, not true, and the reviews 
 made false conclusions; the length isn't short nor is it long, it's somewhere in between. All in 
 all a good game, but like Half-Life 2, it changes the feel of the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yokoh999
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2005 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Great game, very immersive. When I first played Max Payne 1, I wonder what will be the improvements 
 for the sequel . Well this is better than my expectations. The dark gothic story in awesome visuals, 
 mixed with Matrix style action plus some of the best psychological horror dream sequences make 
 a perfect blend.
  MP2 was a breakthrough in shooter/adventure games , when it's not only about glitzy graphics, but 
 instead allow great movielike plotlines too. Reminds me of Wing Commander series years ago, when 
 space battles combined perfectly with romance, betrayal and death.
  One nice twist though, that the player are rewarded with alternate Mona ending if the player had 
 persistence enough to play through DOA difficulty setting. This comes as a surprise, because at 
 most games, changing difficulty levels only means tougher enemies or bonus items, not changing 
 the story itself.
  All aside this makes me wonder, what will be for us in MP3 ( if it comes anyway)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: javelin1814
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 28, 2005 7:31 am PT
Review:  Max Payne is stylish, but the bullet time thing feels like a gimmick to jazz up an otherwise average 
 game. 
  
  The dialogue made me think I was playing Max Metaphor. "Death is like ...." the "The past haunts 
 you like a so-so video game". 
  
  I just didnt think it was fun to play as someone pouting all freaking day long. 
  
  Get pissed 
 or get a therapist. 
  
  The levels with Mona playable or, with Max and Mona working together gave a much needed break from 
 the monatony. There was just nothing new ... no new skills the enemy changed clothes, but aside 
 from that ... the same throughout the entire game. 
  
  I was just not impressed. I will miss Max3 for sure. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerkeer
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 27, 2005 5:31 am PT
Review:  Hell yeah i was never really convinced to buy Max Payne 1. But i sure am convinced that Max Payne 
 is one helluva evil Bastard now. ^_^
  
  He keeps running around looking for Pain while consuming Painkillers almost constantly. And you 
 can be so mean to civilians. Its just Great!
  
  I find myself playing interesting passages again and again just to see in how many variations i 
 could blast the enemies. The physics are just brilliant. Graphics and performance is doing nice. 
 The weapons are great. The story sucks you in.. the molotovs look awesome, the grenades are a blast, 
 the ammo crates lieing around and exploding like some tremendously powerful magnesium-flash style 
 thingy are fascinating. And dont forget Bullet-Time, flying around akimbo style with double desert-eagles 
 is devastating. 
  Thanks to Bullet-Time you can reload so extremely fast, while you start and finish reloading in 
 BT your last elliminated foe can only slide along the beginning to the end of a 1m long, wall-mounted 
 radiator. And then the fun starts off once again, with full magazines.
  
  The only thing you need to watch out is not saving or running into an autosave while having low 
 energy and few painkillers. The game is designed to use Painkillers constantly, but it works out 
 fine in most cases.
  
  I didnt like the passage playing as the woman though, they should have showed her perspective of 
 the story in some cinematics and thats it. I prefer Max Payne, she's no real Painkiller-Narcotic 
 anyway.
  
  Conclusion: Sssssssssplendid!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: loopy_101
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 28, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  It was clear from the start of the game that Remedy were trying to scrape whatever they could to 
 make a Max Payne sequel. In the process of doing so, Max Payne 2 also removed what created the 
 game's ludicrously popular fan base in the first place. The gritty feeling and dark storyline from 
 the original game simply is a no go, Max did what he had to do in the original game and it stirred 
 up the whole revenge and plot twisted storyline at the same time. Max Payne 2 however can only 
 try it's very best to emulate this and it still fails to do so.
  
  As expected, Max Payne 2 has a nice cosmetic look throughout the game. This applies to both the 
 graphic novel and the gameplay itself (which seem better link this time) . The visuals are bold 
 and vivid although yet still noir like the first game. The effects of the game itself are also 
 still good, the action feels fantastic. Bullet time made popular from the previous Max Payne is 
 still available to use in Max Payne 2 and feels a little faster also, which is just fine as far 
 as I'm concerned, if a little repetitive.
  
  There is a clean emphasis on screen effects in Max Payne 2 and work well thanks to fantastic presentation 
 during the game also. Players will find it hard not to sit back and gaze into the wonders of the 
 graphical engine in the game itself because so much has been improved in this game. Remedy have 
 even gone as far as to including the famous Havok physics engine to accompany the fantastic visuals 
 with realistic death animations which should make you almost seal the deal straight away.
  
  Although there's still more. Max Payne 2 has excellent voice acting, some of the best I've 
 heard in a game for quite some time. The voice cast is mainly different to the original game although 
 you'll find it impossible not to agree that the new voice actors are far better in this game. Main 
 character Max, Mona and Vlad all have authentic voices and are very convincing in their use of 
 accents are potrayal of the characters themselves. Even the mobsters, which are simple side-characters 
 have their own slice of personality that the players will like and/or relate to throughout the 
 game.
  
  Perhaps the only let-down in the sound effects department comes from the music which sounds odd, 
 although Max Payne 1 wasn't dependant on this either. Also perhaps some some of the voices and 
 screenplay are a little off putting too, although this is very occasional since the game's script 
 is quite witty and psychological 
  
  So the gameplay, as you might expect from a Max Payne game again, it's pretty good. See, while 
 Max Payne plays like a run of the mill shooter, the use of bullet time, made famous in the Matrix, 
 effects everything. Max Payne 2 more or less extends on this. The array of weapons has been increased, 
 there are more diverse objectives to this game compared to the original and it's a lot more fun 
 to toy around and re-create your favourite scenes from movies with the renowned bullet time features.
 
  
  The developers, Remedy, have even introduced another playable character in the form of Mona Sax, 
 which makes for a nice change. So overall, the gameplay is something of a highlight in Max Payne 
 2. Mona plays much the same to Max except she peforms a few different moves that he couldn't normally 
 do, as well as progressing the game's story.
  
  Although there is one issue that hasn't been solved in Max Payne 2; the length of the game itself. 
 This a bit of a disappointment, since Max Payne has cinematic values written all over it, but gamers 
 will honestly want more. Also the story of Max Payne 2 seems to be outrageous compared to the original 
 game. With once likeable characters turning into an annoyance, regardless of the voice acting and 
 their skill.
  
  You could go into detail just how much the story has shot players down from really experiencing 
 the game at its best. But cut short, we were expecting a gritty tale of vengeance similar to, say 
 Kill Bill, rather than a love story like Romeo And Juliet. This greatly effects the perception 
 of the game considering the original punky Matrix themes we saw in the beginning. 
  
  So that's all there is to know about Max Payne 2. It is still a action packed bullet time shooter 
 like its predecessor, although be prepared for a few surprises and raising eyebrows throughout 
 the game. The game picks up the series atmosphere a lot differently this time around. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: breshpe
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 24, 2005 12:06 pm PT
Review:  .When I played Max Payne , i was delighted: the story , the characters, the places where Max goes 
 ,etc. I thought that , when Max Payne 2 cames to PC i will play it; and when it came on 2004 i played 
 it a lot. a played all its levels 3 or 4 times , in Detective, Hard Boiled, New York Minute , Dead 
 On Arrival and Dead Man Walking. I couldnt stop , i get never bored!. Its graphics, gameplay , music, characters, all 
 was perfect. So if you like action games dont doubt on play it. And if you played Max Payne and 
 you liked it ,you MUST play this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: uber_adam
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 22, 2005 2:39 pm PT
Review:  To be honest, i didnt like it the first time i played it i thought they had just remade the first 
 game just with a different story and new characters.
  
  But then...
  
  I killed the first guy, an explosion of amazing effects and mind blowing ragdoll physics burst 
 onto my screen leaving me blood-thirsty and wanting more.
  
  As the story developed i got more into it. Wanting to know what happens next.
  
  Everything 
 about the game is better than the first one.
  
  The Graphics, the A. I, the guns.. everything!
  
  And now that the game is now only 9.99 (in 
 UK) its more than worth it.
  
  Anybody who doesnt own the game shall be shot
  
   . 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wowcoolawesome
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2005 10:59 am PT
Review:  If you want a really awesome action game, look no further than max payne 2. The menus in this game 
 are marvelous, and the cut scenes drive the story really good. If you want some of the best rag 
 doll physics you've seen in a action game, buy this game. If you want a game where you can shoot 
 an unlimited amount of A. I in the dead man walking new games buy this game.
  
  I really enjoyed may payne 2. The only gripes I had with this game was the ineffectiveness of grenades 
 on staircases and the slight lack of realism in the rag dolls but I believe if there is to ever 
 be a sequel these things would be improved on/ or cleared up in a snap.
  
  I beat this game on all difficulties so I'm pretty sure I'm better than everyone who wrote a review 
 on this game with game spot because I just mutilated this game basically in one night on the hardest 
 difficulty, "dead on arrival" I got a different ending so it was worth it.
  
  I've also had memories playing this game moons ago, and getting times like 18 minutes on one of 
 the downloadable levels you get off the official game site for the dead man walking new games. 
 I also got to play with better resolution on a computer with better graphics cards so I had my 
 computer settings turned down when playing with this computer even though my computer is newer 
 and has more gigabites. If it just had a better graphics card. My computer made installing complicated, 
 and it took several attempts until I finally got someone more computer critiqued to install it 
 for me.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jondavisx
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 21, 2005 10:21 am PT
Review:  Max payne 2 was fun while it lasted. It really has not changed much from the first, that's a good 
 thing though. Run and gun no puzzles hear enemies are not to hard unless they are in packs which 
 they tend to be towards the latter missions. What more can I say than Guns, Bullets, Blood, more 
 guns and Bullet time. I really liked this one but would recommend renting on the xbox first because 
 its so short you can finish it in about 9 hours or less.
  
  
  I hate the 100 words rule for reviews maybe thats why most people list their PC specs, oh well. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 20, 2005 4:05 am PT
Review:  Bringing back the Payne.
  
  It's been over two years since we helped Max Payne clear his name and take revenge on those who 
 relieved his family of their right to exist. But like the killer in any slasher film, he's back, 
 with a similar preternatural proclivity for mayhem and wanton destruction.
  
  Max is a hard-boiled NYPD detective, but as a cop he always seems to come up short. In Remedy's 
 third-person shooter Max Payne 2, however, our hero shines like my Uncle Buck's hairless dome under 
 the hot Indiana sun. Admittedly, there are few hurdles along the way - you may find yourself bypassing 
 much of the exhaustive story to get to the bloodletting, - but at the end of the day, this is about 
 as cool as a cop gets.
  
  Unfortunately, he's not cold enough to stay away a femme fatale who has seemingly defied the Reaper's 
 death grip. Those of you who helped our sleepless detective on his last mission will remember Mona 
 Sax, the bombshell assassin who until now was thought to be dead. She returns to Payne's life as 
 a love interest and plot catalyst providing plenty of mystery and intrigue.
  
  Like his previous outing, the drama unfolds in a sequence of clever, stylish graphic novel sequences, 
 with Max himself as the narrator. The seasoned detective will find himself on the opposite side 
 of the law yet again as a one man army against impossible odds.
  
  Thankfully, Max's signature ability evens those odds like a hot iron over a cheap polyester suit. 
 Often imitated but never truly duplicated, Bullet Time is back and badder than ever.
  
  Bullet Time has gone through a bit of a revision. Now with the press of a button time seems to 
 slow, but in reality Max is moving at break-neck speed while the enemies plod along at a snail's 
 pace. Shoot more knuckleheads while in Bullet Time and Max moves even faster while his assailants 
 move slower. This also replenishes your Bullet Time meter.
  
  This new Bullet Time allows Max to more effectively handle the scores of enemies. It was possible 
 to get through the fist game pretty handily without using Bullet Time much at all, but thankfully 
 we no longer have such luxury. You'll need to use it a lot, but that's a very good thing because 
 it's a very cool thing. It's amazing how a feature inspired by The Matrix is better implemented 
 than the video game adaptation of its progenitor.
  
  Also born from the cinema is the shootdodging ability, which is completely unchanged. Press a button 
 while moving in any direction and Max will dive in slow-motion with the ability to aim and shoot 
 in real-time. Handy and damn cool.
  
  A third 'feature' increases the cool to Sean Connery-James Bond status  details. The new Havok 
 physics engine adds the finishing cinematic touches Max has been begging for with an unparalled 
 use of rag-doll physics and a level of interactivity that will leave gamers speechless. It's virtually 
 impossible for Max to kill a guy the same way twice. Everything is taken in to account. Enemies 
 react differently if shot in various parts of the body and/or with different ordinances. A Desert 
 Eagle shot to the arm, leg, torso or head produces a much different animation than an Uzi or shotgun 
 blast to the same locations. Even momentum from running or diving out of the way is accounted for 
 when baddies catch lead. It's incredible.
  
  Plus, everything in the game world can be moved, shot up and destructively disassembled. Death 
 animations include guys flying through windows, over railings into boxes, onto tables (which will 
 buckle under their weight) and so much more. I nailed one poor sod with a shotgun blast so fierce 
 that it sent him flying into a series of shelves which promptly fell apart, dumping their contents 
 on top of the sucker as he slumped over a barrel. Sweet!
  
  The textures and overall look of the game are just as stellar, even more so than the original. 
 Bullets can again be seen in flight, but when they stab into various materials the surfaces behave 
 appropriately. For example, wood splinters and releases dust while metals dent, giving off sparks 
 for a great particle effect. The attention to detail is award-winning.
  
  The texture quality manages to hold up no matter how close you get to objects. The game is also 
 quite scalable for low-end systems without losing too much of the graphical bells and whistles. 
 Moreover, a patch has been recently released to decrease load times on lower-end systems.
  
  But there is no patch to fix some of Max's flaws, including his awkward, jerky running animations 
 and the enormous amount of story that gets in the way of the action. I appreciate the gloomy storytelling, 
 but often you just want to speed through it to get to the more glorious gunplay.
  
  Also, a patch to increase Max's stay would have helped immeasurably (although I guess that's called 
 an 'expansion') . His visit seems even shorter than last time, clocking in at about 10 hours tops, 
 and that's just too bad. This was perhaps the biggest complaint about the original, yet Remedy 
 failed to remedy the situation by adding more replay value. Despite all the slick coolness, Max 
 is still just running and gunning. He's not stat-building, jumping in and out of vehicles, taking 
 alternate paths to right his wrongs or taking his grievances online for any sort of multiplayer. 
 Max is on a very linear, straightforward path, and once you get to the end of it, the only incentive 
 to do it again is, well, to do it again.
  
  In fairness, New York Minute, Hard Boiled and Dead on Arrival modes make a return, so at least 
 you can play through the story with some added pressures. But it's the same plot and the same path 
 no matter how you play.
  
  With that said, Max Payne 2 is still a great surprise all around. Improvements were made to the 
 key aspects of the gameplay with an increased sense of cool. Max Payne 2 is about as slick as they 
 come, with a presentation and verve that supercedes cutting-edge. It's a short one, but good things 
 do come in small packages after all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danngerus
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 18, 2005 8:04 am PT
Review:  I already played Max Payne on th PS2 before playing this and i thought it would be more of the 
 same. Ok, it is. It's twisted noir film plot returns, the dark rooms and roads, the nightmares 
 and ofcourse the revolutionary bullt time gameplay that not even the matrix games could beat. There 
 isn't anything really new in terms of gameplay, only the grafix are improved, AND WHAT AMAZING 
 GRAFIX THeY ARE! Incredibly detailed scenery and characters, the weapons look like their real counterparts 
 with their details, flames and especially their bullets in bullettime (apparently they have reflections, 
 but they are too small for me to check) . 
  But what really maters in a Max Payne game is the bullettime gameplay. Run, activate bullettime, 
 dodge the bullets, dive, fire the two Uzi's and hear their crackling noise as the enemies are blown 
 away with the great rag doll effect. This never gets boring and this gives room for experimentation: 
 what would happen if i shot him there, could i kill the 3 of them in just 3 head shots before i 
 land on the floor, how many times can i shoot him before he falls to the ground....?
  Another great effect is the incredibly destructive scenery. You whip out your M4 and start blazing 
 away and while some bullets reach the target the rest destroy the surrounding scenery (walls, tiles, 
 computers, vending mchines, windows, etc..) creating a cloud of smoke dust and sparks.
  The story is a little bit complicated and short, but fantasic none the less, with love, vengence, 
 betrayal, etc... Just brilliant.
  And the scenery where the action takes place is incredibly varied: hospital, police station, mansion, 
 construction site, fun house, block of flats, streets, etc... And each one incredibly detailed 
 (radiators, trash cans, dirts, rubbish, cofe machines, pizza boxes, tv's, computers, lockers, switches, 
 home cinemas... I know they have all appeared in other games but not as many and well placed, they 
 are never placed repeatedly in every room in each level. Very detailed.
  And sound is crazy! the sounds of the guns are brilliant, normal or bullettime mode. 
  This game 
 is basically pure genious, with its only flaw its length but it does have replay value as each 
 time u play its different thanx to the bullettime.
  BUY IT!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: techkill
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 13, 2005 12:45 am PT
Review:  I bought this game not long ago and I must say it is very addicting. The graphics aren't of the 
 best, but that isn't the point in this game. The lovlines in this game is that it is so well made 
 and you really feel like you'r in vietnam.
  it's a great feeling when getting a good. or just surviving to do it again.
  when you die you 
 get so agrevated you probadly yell out" im gonna f***** kill that guy" 
  I do at least. the game is most rewarding if you play online because the A. I isn't of the best.
 
  all in all this game is an amacing shooter with a lot of fun., 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jabbawocky04
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 11, 2005 7:32 am PT
Review:  Max Payne 2: The Fall of Max Payne is possible the greatest 3rd person shooter I have ever played. 
 The story is a great continuation from what I thought had been finished in Max Payne, the game 
 play is a little more easier on PC than it was on Playstation 2 so that makes even better. The 
 graphics look like they have been pumped up on steroids compared to the previous game and now every 
 bit of effort has gone into voice acting and sound effects. People may not think that this game 
 has anymore value than the previous game but play Dead on Arrival and get treated to a new ending, 
 and even after completing the game this is the PC version go download some mods! This may not be 
 a masterpiece (nothing ever is in my opinion) but it is as close to one as you will ever get. This 
 is the most unappreciated game of all time. The only question tha lurks with me now is will Max 
 Payne 3 be able to match this now that some main parties have pulled out? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2005 8:04 am PT
Review:  As we all know most of games are getting more rating points at first release. And its sequels are 
 not getting much more attention or rating. 
  However, Max Payne 2: The fall of Max Payne is diverted this thoughts. I would say this sequel 
 made a lot of noise rather than its first version. New personages and killer beauty 
 Mona just wiped out all game play experience in good manner. All relations with first part were 
 amazingly highlighted in this part. And for most of us it became on of the greatest game experiences. 
 
  I would say that Max Payne series was one of the successful series in game history and I hope that 
 it will continue in it is right way. Hearing about that developers are going to work on Max Payne 
 3 (Working Title) make me just wait excitedly and purchase this game at the first release date. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxdemobster
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2006 7:17 am PT
Review:  This is the game, that I have played the most - beacuse it has the best story of all FPS, that 
 exist. It has the most emotional athmosphere - there will be times of love and romance and times 
 of war and death. In center of everything is Max Payne, a NYPD officer, that has discovered secrets 
 of local mafia, that many people would regret them... Anyway, it also has one of the best Bullet 
 Time of all FPS - fantastic animations. The graphics and the sounds are very life-like. The only 
 bad thing is, that the the game is little too short, but that is what every good game looks like.
 
  And you won`t surely get boring with multiplayer - lots of action and fun.
  In final conclusion, I can`t describe this game any more and also - you won`t be dissapointed with 
 game, all things considered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 3, 2005 12:41 pm PT
Review:  A rich romantic story, with a SUPPER game play.
  
  Lots of good actions and shooting, and ducking, diving, buillet dodging, matrix dives, and plenty 
 of fire action, pump action shotguns and rifles.
  
  WOW , my life pass's me again, thats almost a vision of my life style.
  
  (cough) yea right, 
 you say.
  
  Well then again, life is a dream, but then again, games are only dreams.
  
  OR ARE THAY.
  
  They are getting real every time, and this game play has INTENSE CINEMAIC 3D 
 ACTION GAME play, with UNIQUE BUILLET TIME gameplay.
  
  You'd have to be a first-degree fool to fall for a woman who returns from the dead, and you would 
 be a first-degree fool not to play this game.
  
  SO PLAY IT!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrCHUP0N
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 1, 2005 10:34 pm PT
Review:  [This review originally appears on TRIGAMES. NET.]
  
  I was thinking about starting this review with some hammy metaphors in the spirit of Max Payne, 
 but I'm terrible at that so I just won't. But I can offer this metaphor: Max Payne 2 is... uh... 
 oh screw it. Max Payne 2 kicks incredible amounts of arse.
  
  Max Payne 2 basically came out of nowhere. I wasn't even thinking about a sequel until one day 
 I was browsing around and saw that game sites had big fat news articles on the home pages of their 
 PC sites: Max Payne 2 - Fall of Max Payne had gone gold. I guess Remedy and Rockstar did a good 
 job of keeping the game under wraps. In any case from that day on, I eagerly anticipated the release 
 of this sequel to one of the most stylish shooters to date.
  
  I'm going to cut right to the chase -- if you've played Max Payne, then you've basically played 
 much of Max Payne 2. For me however, this is one of those things where more of a good thing can't 
 possibly be bad. It's like Contra to Super C, or Megaman to Megaman 2 to Megaman 3. Max Payne 2 
 takes Max Payne, sticks real "actors" (models for the graphic novels) in place of staff members, 
 introduces the Havok physics engine and glorious graphics, brings back a new enhanced bullet time, 
 and wraps it up in a nice neat little game noir package. It's brilliant, if not familiar.
  
  To run it down for people who haven't played Max Payne, the franchise is basically a third 
 person shooter that controls like a first person shooter. Think Alice. With mad gunz. And swearing. 
 The Max Payne games differeniate themselves from other shooters not only with its gritty, film 
 noir-esque, graphic novel approach to story, but with Bullet Time -- a gameplay element meant to 
 mimic such bullet-time sequences found in the Matrix. This slows down the environment around Max 
 -- and, at least in the case of the first game, Max himself -- but still allows him to aim in real-time. 
 So while everything and everyone crawls around, you still have the advantage of being able to aim 
 more easily to pepper some foes with lead.
  
  Notice how I said "at least in the case of the first game" up there. That's because Remedy altered 
 Bullet Time to make Max more like like Superman. If you keep pelting enemies in Bullet-Time mode, 
 your Bullet-Time meter continues to fill and eventually turns yellow. When that happens, every 
 enemy you kill makes you faster while the environment slows down even more. Ultimately you reach 
 a point where you are moving as fast as you would in normal time, where the environment around 
 you is literally crawling. If you could imagine seeing Max from the enemy's point of view, he'd 
 be moving so fast that, hell -- you might not even see him at all.
  
  This can be a welcome addition or a detriment, depending on your tastes. On the one hand, it makes 
 the game much easier than the first: instead of being limited to shoot-dodging (diving in slow 
 motion while shooting) from cover to cover, as in the first game, you can in fact just flip on 
 the bullet time and rush in guns-a-blazing, confident that skillful maneuvering will allow you 
 to -- sooner or later -- run around at blazing speeds and finish the battle unscathed. On the other 
 hand, it just looks and feels so cool! For me, very little beats the rush of running around unsuspecting 
 gunmen, littering the ground with bodies, as I dodge bullets while on my feet. I haven't mentioned 
 the uber-stylish reload animation while in the new Bullet Time, where Max spins around in some 
 John Woo inspired balletic move (the way his trenchcoat flaps around is so smooth) .
  
  The new Bullet Time is such a rush that shoot-dodging seems to pale in comparison. I think Remedy 
 realized this so they improved the shoot-dodge by having it not draw anything from your Bullet 
 Time meter, in addition to allowing Max to continue to shoot after he finally lands on his side. 
 This is a welcome improvement from the first game, where Max suffered a temporary moment of vulnerability 
 as he got up to his feet after a shoot-dodge. All you have to do is to hold down the Fire button 
 as he's on the ground.
  
  Yet another improvement to combat lets you use a secondary attack with the click of a button. In 
 the first game, you selected melee weapons and grenades/molotov cocktails as if they were a normal 
 weapon. This meant that you couldn't hold a gun and throw a molotov cocktail at the same time. 
 Here, Remedy has taken a cue from Halo and allowed all melee attacks and lobbing items to be assigned 
 as a secondary attack. Now, you can let off a burst of Mac 10 fire, lob a grenade, then continue 
 firing with the greatest of ease.
  
  An addition to the general gameplay comes into the picture when Remedy thrusts you into the role 
 of another a character who is working in concert with Max. In certain scenarios you, as the other 
 character, help fend off thugs as he struggles to make his way out of a pile of rubble and is eventually 
 overwhelmed. Fail to cover him properly and he dies. Not as significant but also added is the ability 
 for Max to fight alongside allies. For me this only really happened twice (not counting the significant 
 character mentioned above) , and the effect was minimal, but I guess two bullets are better than 
 one. I did enjoy saving the game, then shooting my allies to see how they would react. Needless 
 to say, they weren't very pleased.
  
  Replayability was my only problem with the original Max Payne, as that game was so intense that 
 I was literally almost too exhausted at game's end to play it a second time (but I persevered) . 
 This time it's almost as intense and almost as exhausting, but Remedy added a "Dead Man Walking" 
 mode where you are guaranteed to die: the question is, how long can you last? Every enemy that 
 you kill adds to your bullet time as usual, and the challenge is to keep that up as long as you 
 can to break your own records.
  
  A few new weapons also make it into the mix -- the AK-47, MP5 and the Dragunov Sniper rifle (which 
 replaces the old sniper rifle) . I would have liked to see a flame thrower in there, just for kicks, 
 since Max Payne 2's beautiful graphics engine handles flame with even more grace than the first 
 engine did way back in 2000.
  
  And this, perhaps, is Max Payne 2's best aspect: the visuals. I am indeed a Gameplay-over-Graphics 
 person, but that doesn't take away from the eerily supreme job that Remedy did with the game. First, 
 the texture work is stunning. As sharp as the first game's was for 2000, these are incredibly sharp 
 for 2003. With DirectX 9 goodies shining through, this game looks absolutely fantastic. Secondly, 
 Remedy employed the Havok physics engine. Crates, columns, desks, lamps, doors -- they all move 
 around with realism. Save for the fact that some big objects seem too light, and some weak objects 
 don't break apart when shot at. Enemies die realistically with the help of ragdoll physics, and 
 in certain cases you can use the environment against them. One instance has you tripping a log-on-a-rope 
 that swings and smashes into two baddies on the floor under you, unaware of what's happening until 
 it's too late. Other scenarios let you shoot down a pile of boxes that an enemy is taking cover 
 behind. They think they're safe until the boxes start to fall, one by one, until their beady little 
 eyes are exposed for you to shoot.
  
  Of course, the caveat here is that you'd probably need the cash for a fine machine -- at least 
 a DirectX 9 card and everything else well above the minimum requirements. In 2003 machine has an 
 Athlon XP 3000+, a gig of PC2700 RAM, and a Radeon 9700 Pro GPU -- it was never unplayable but 
 I saw the framerate wavering a little. (Today, with a Radeon X800 XT and PC3200 RAM, it never skips 
 a beat.) With no enemies on screen it ran briskly at near-60 levels (to the naked eye at least, 
 I have no benchmarks to prove it) , and with a heaping of enemies it dropped to maybe high 20s. 
 But again, always playable.
  
  Like the first game, Max Payne uses the graphic novel style to tell the story along with in-game 
 cutscenes. But this time Remedy went out and got outside actors to model for the characters, whereas 
 in the first game they used staff members -- with Sam Lake, the story's writer, as the endearing 
 constipated-face Max Payne. Unfortunately his squinty face is missed in this game, but he still 
 pens the cheesy (but always great) lines, so we still feel his Payne. Plus, the new actors do give 
 the game (in-game and graphic novel) a much more polished feel. And thankfully, Max's face changes 
 expression once in a while.
  
  Again, Remedy opted not to infuse the game with a lot of music. In some stages there are some background 
 rumblings to help get you enthused with shooting down punk fools (although, with Max Payne, what 
 more motivation do you need than the thought of blasting a digital hole in someone) and the haunting, 
 beautiful opening theme is redone with a cello solo. But for the most part all you hear are footsteps, 
 gun blasts, and "It's Payne!" With little music, then, the highlights of the aural experience is 
 again the sound of shrapnel and bullets during Bullet Time. The muffled, piercing sound effects 
 in that mode sound as good as they did in the previous game. The great voice acting from the first 
 game also returns, with the comical voice of Vinnie Gognitti remaining among my favorites.
  
  Yet in the end, Max Payne 2 isn't as memorable as the first game. Perhaps it's because this 
 is the second go-round. Perhaps it's because the story didn't climax as much as I would have liked 
 it to, or that it went by way too fast for the huge amount of information it threw at you. Maybe 
 it's because it was easier, thanks to the new bullet time, and thus the game just went by faster 
 (I estimate about the same 8 to 10 hours of play went into this as the first game) . Bottom line 
 is, the true Max Payne experience isn't fully complete unless you play the first game.
  
  Of course, I still had so much fun shooting people, that I must say that the Max Payne experience 
 isn't fully complete unless you play this game, either. "Not as memorable" doesn't mean it's not 
 memorable; both games certainly are. Max Payne 2 is a very fun, polished product that should be 
 played by all shooter fans and absolutely cannot be missed by Max Payne fans. If all you got out 
 of the first Max Payne was a cool dabble with a new gimmick (bullet time) , I will begrudgingly 
 admit that perhaps you can pass this up. But I don't recommend that you do. I certainly couldn't 
 pass it up, and I don't regret it a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeyjolnir
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 30, 2005 10:49 am PT
Review:  I must admit that this game is a piece of art when it comes to graphics and game play. It's music 
 and sound contributed well to the mood of the game.
  But the storyline of the game doesn't compare with the first one. In the original Max Payne, you 
 kill to avenge your family and to bring down the bad mob, while making good fruitful relationships 
 with other mobs (i. e. Vlad) .
  In the Fall of Max Payne, you shoot dry-cleaners high on crack, you save a loud mouth just to make 
 him blow up, and you chase a woman that doesn't know what she's doing.
  The plot was also confusing: your in love one second, you're in the hospital having hallucinations 
 the next second. And why is Vlad supposed to gain from being the bad guy?
  Oh, by the way... why is this game called: The Fall of Max Payne? Because he lost his beloved killer 
 partner (s) ? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AudioSoldier
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2005 9:29 am PT
Review:  Max smiles grimly. The grunts in the adjourning room are oblivious to his presence. Only seconds 
 earlier he had dived in with marked aplomb, relying on his trusty slow-mo, "bullet time" moves 
 to get one up on the potential enemies. Except, he had been outnumbered. He had been unprepared, 
 never *certain* there would be enemies waiting. He had died. 
  
  But thanks to the handy quick-load feature, masquerading as an unassuming F9 button, Max is breathing 
 his laboured breaths once more. He smiles grimly again, confident that he can pull off the move. 
 Because he knows... he has knowledge and with the pistols nestling in each paw, there's absolutely 
 no way he'll die again. 
  
  The sequel to Remedy's critically acclaimed 2001 blockbuster third-person shooter has received 
 a graphical polish-up, but it retains the undeniable "Max Payne" bits. There's shooting, there's 
 dying and there's plenty of quick-saving. But most importantly, there are countless moments where 
 you'll sit bolt upright in amazement; desperate to replay the expertly executed dive you've just 
 performed. Max Payne 2 has the irresistible ability to make you feel worthy of such a beautiful 
 game. 
  
  Our main character is ageing, yet he's still as suave as ever. The game's story is of no less importance, 
 however, and you'll find Max's tale of love and lust as intriguing as his previous exploits in 
 snowy New York. 
  
  Remedy hasn't tampered with the original formula. The game really succeeds at all because of this. 
 There are no frown-inducing puzzles, for instance. The action is kept at the fore of proceedings 
 and the action is largely relentless throughout the brief game. 
  
  Brief, yes. It's certainly no forty-hour trek through a land of mystical creatures. Levels are 
 grounded in the realms of the "real world". We have warehouses. Grime-encased apartments. Max Payne 
 2 paints a depressing picture, but the standout moments are the expertly crafted storybook scenes; 
 a feature of the original game that caught the attention of many. 
  
  Max Payne 2 is devoid of a multiplayer component, but the single-player experience is a thoroughly 
 enjoyable one. This is a game to sit back and relax with, stretch and indulge in some outlandish 
 shootouts. The pacing is impeccable too, and labelling Max Payne 2 as the definitive third-person 
 shooter is entirely correct. 
  
  It's just too short. And Max Payne was before it. But by all means, sample the sequel if you found 
 Max's original adventure captivating. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: random_joe6657
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2005 5:50 pm PT
Review:  max payne 2 is is the best game ever to use bullet time. the ragdolls are the funnest things ever. 
 i spend hours play around with them. and the graphics fit the game perfiectly. my only problem 
 is how they made the 9mm sound all sisy like. i havent found much problems with the game ( probly 
 cause i dont look) it runs great on my pc and i got out fo date grapics card. i can run everything 
 on high except for the shadows but who needs shadows when u have bullet caseing everywhere. the 
 game never gets old and the mods are great too. i find myself playing it over and over for some 
 reason. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Jankka-
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 26, 2005 6:23 am PT
Review:  Bullet time, almost every gamer knows that...
  
  Exactly, we're talking about Max Payne!
  Max Payne 2: Fall of Max Payne, I would say firstly that it is one of the best action shooters 
 ever made. Great story continues, and Max has now some new weapons, game-engine, witch is very 
 good! Gameplay is Perfect.
  
  In Max payne 2, there's also ability to play as Mona Sax, but bad In that is that it comes just 
 on several levels.
  Also the game is pretty short, so you can play it through in 2-4 nights.
  Max payne 2: Fallof 
 Max Payne is also realy beatiful, and nice to watch.
  I have nothing else to say about this game, It's... Almost Perfect action! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mankark
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 26, 2005 5:38 am PT
Review:  One thing is for sure. Max Payne 2 rocks! With better graphics, weapons and Ai raising its stocks 
 this game is a must buy product. For those new to the franchise let me tell you : you will not 
 be confused by the storyline. Its sharp, fast and dark in every way. If it has to be criticised 
 then the game could have been longer. With a suprise character of Mona Sax the game has attained 
 more depth if possible. It is also possiblle to play as Mona Sax later on in the game. Weapons 
 like the shotgun look glorious and are a joy to behold. Hats off to Rockstar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aikov
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 15, 2005 6:57 am PT
Review:  I first got this game 2 weeks after it got out. I just couldn't wait to play the game. Once i started 
 pplaying the game i was overwelmed by the beauty of its graphics. The characters all moved (and 
 died) very smoothly.
  
  The gameplay itself was pretty smooth as well. But it became very repetitive... jumping in a room... bullet 
 time... guns blazing. It all looked great and in the beginning it was very satisfying to see all 
 the bad guys piled up after a nice shootout. But after a wile... these 'piles' started to look alike'. 
 
  
  In most action games that isn't such a problem, but the game never made me feel part of the adventure. 
 The storytelling was just annoying. If they wanted me to read the story in comic form, they should 
 have included a comic in the game's box. Just don't annoy me with 'comic style storytelling' in 
 an action game. Nice try, but it wasn't nearly as original as they may have wanted it to be. 
 
  
  O and about the content of the story, it was boring! Hell, those story writers can even learn from 
 a game like Rayman! 
  
  But that was just the part of the game that really kept me from playing the game a second time. 
 Apart from the above listed cons, the game was great fun to play. Great graphics, nice gameplay 
 and great sound. Overall a good game, but not as good as the sayd it would be...
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hello465
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2005 2:32 am PT
Review:  IT RULES pure and simple thats all you need to be told :) anyway apart from the fact that it rules 
 the whole max payne saga so far has been apsolutly cool and if you dont have it the shooting the 
 dolly effect the graphics and AI are superb. so get this game it is pure awsomeness if thats a 
 word. The storyline is nice and depressing and max payne is so apsolutly depressing that is another 
 good point of the game the dialog is really sarcastic and funny. When shoot people the acually 
 move the way they should and that brings a real realistic effect to the game. the slow mo is eccellent 
 and is fun to see everyone dying in slow motion its hilarious sometimes and really improves the 
 gameplay and can help you out of tough spots. IT RULES!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockstarrem
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 12, 2005 10:47 am PT
Review:  I love this game Max Payne 2. It has so many different and new weapons from teh first one. This 
 is my favorite game overall. Now since this is a PC review I'll talk about the PC stuff. I have 
 all of them on all platforms and PC is the best to me. The graphics and everything else go good 
 with the pc. The controls on teh keyboard suit the game very well. As always you have the W, A, 
 S, D controls but then again what is Max Payne famous for... Bullet Time!!! You use the right mouse 
 button to enter bullet time in the sequel. In the first when you pressed the right mouse button 
 Max would do a "Bullet Time Dodge". To me these seem the same without using bullet time. Now getting 
 into gameplay now I have to say I was dissapointed that there was not a M60 weapon. In Max Payne 
 1 I loved using the M60 Rocket Launcher and it really helped. They did make up for this though 
 by putting in the secondary attack key. In the first max payen you could only hold a grenade and 
 then go back to the gun. This time you can do both... I think the default controls are good for 
 this "secondary attack" feature seen in many other games. Now the story part of this game is great. 
 They call it "A Film Noir Love Story" which is exactly what it is. We have always known the graphic 
 novels from the first Max Payne. They are back except this time you can fast forward, rewind, and 
 play them on all platforms. You could only play or skip them in the first max payne on consoles. 
 Overall thsi is teh best Third Person shooter but it could of had more weapons and a few more changes. 
 Can't wait for the third! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superdraciel
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 3, 2005 9:55 am PT
Review:  After quite a wait, the much anticipated Max Payne 2 game has come out. And it's as sensational 
 as the original Max Payne, if not more.
  The graphics are stunning, and almost everything around you can be destructed, making the gameplay 
 more interactive.
  You can play as Max and as Mona Sax (Max's new love interest) in this game. The cutscenes are in 
 a cool new graphic-novel format which can be accesed any time.
  This game features a lot of guns and a variety of missions which include both stealth and action.
 
  The only drawback in this game is that its a bit short, but as they say say-quality is better than 
 quantity-this game more than makes up for its shortness by sound graphics and gameplay.
  Overall, this game is a must for any gamer looking for an action thriller.
  By superdraciel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CHAMPANERIA
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 2, 2005 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Gripping from the starting to the end, it uses the backwords story telling so something 
 has already happen and your going thro hell then you play what lead to that part very interesting 
 also you play other views of that part so if you got blown out a window ect... you play another 
 view and see that happing its neat and sweet non the less... the matrix slow down is very fun blowing 
 bodies into the guy ect watching them fly around the physics are awesome and the 360 reload actions 
 are just perfect indeed a must play... I felt Max Payne 1 had more weapons tho, I would of liked 
 to see more and a longer single player but it was short and sweet so its well done... its a must 
 play and experience cuz you missing out on some nice action...
  
  Grahpics: I'll say some of the best ever everything is so detailed its great it doesn't have the 
 best lighting but still very well done... easily a 10 also this game has the best fire seen ever 
 up there with splintercell series...
  
  Sound: The story telling was great, the sound of guns were nice its really perfect... some music 
 would of helped but nothing would of worked with this blood shot story...
  
  Value: its short so that kills it... but it was good there are extra bouses but never really got 
 into them.
  
  Tilt: Your like it its full of action as other reader reviews you most likly to enjoy this action 
 packed game hands down... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amardeshbd
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 30, 2005 4:21 am PT
Review:  Max Payne 2 is one of the best game i've played..... and it's my all time favourite game !! i finished 
 this game 3ice !! :D and still want to play again.
  the game has fantastic graphics and the game's uniqueness is the MATRIX effect or slow motion.
 
  
  It has another thing which attracted me a lot..... from it's previous version.... which is it's 
 game story ..... it's cool.... sometimes i like to hear the voice of max payne n i love it's theme 
 song..... i still have it and listen to it !!
  there is a variety of different mission types that keep it interesting and the gamer coming back 
 for more.
  the game is a bit shot..... but OK..... still i can hope for another story come by...... another 
 mission ..... where MAX will prove himself as # 1
  
  hope to see MAX backkkkkkkkkkk !!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drswank
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 28, 2005 6:56 pm PT
Review:  When the original Max Payne was finally released in 2001 after a ton of delays, it fast became 
 the standard of what a 3D action game should be. Though the game was criticized for being a tad 
 short, every facet of the game oozed originality. From the graphic novel influenced cut scenes 
 to the bullet time mechanic that made it famous, it fast became a top favorite in many a action 
 game fan's eyes. Now, a little over two years later, Remedy Entertainment brings us Max Payne 2. 
 Billed as a film noir love story, the game only took a few short months from announcement time 
 to release. Does it live up to the standards that the original title set? 
  
  Max Payne 2 takes place not long after the first game. Payne has regained his job with the NYPD 
 as a detective and is still haunted by the loss of his wife and child. We still find him coping 
 with the loss as well as being tangled into a relationship with a mysterious woman named Mona Sax 
 which begs the question as to whose side she's on. You follow Max as he investigates into a syndicate 
 of thugs disguised as janitors, all the while trying to find out if Mona's on his side, his love 
 for her, and betrayal by the police force he works for. For those who didn't play the original 
 game, there is a cut scene off of the main menu that sums up the events leading to the sequel, 
 but most won't find it very helpful. Which bodes the warning to prepare to be lost at certain points. 
 During the course of the game you'll play as both Max and Mona where you'll get their perspectives 
 of what's going on which proves to be interesting at times. 
  
  While the original game offered a lot of originality as far as gameplay, expect more of the same 
 with this entry. However, game play is spiced up with improvements to the bullet time ability, 
 which allowed Max to dive from cover and around corners in slow motion in the previous game. Max 
 still has these moves available to him now, but on top of that, he can now use bullet time on foot. 
 This allows him to run at a group of enemies and as he guns them down, he gets quicker as they 
 get slower. This adds in some nice differences with game play with great effects. 
  
  The game's presentation is excellent. All of the graphic novel cut scenes are back and looking 
 better than ever. Character models look great, which is especially true for Max who was criticized 
 for having the infamous "what's that smell?" look permanently etched on his face in the previous 
 game. Levels are well designed too, while some rooms start looking the same after a while, the 
 player will be whisked through a lot of different places such as a fun house, construction sites, 
 a hospital, and other miscellaneous locations. 
  
  Another series standby are the TV shows in the Max Payne world. You'll see the return of Lords 
 and Ladies, Captain Baseball Bat Boy, and Address Unknown as well as a new show called Dick Justice, 
 which pokes fun at the over dramatization and the said "what's that smell" look of Payne in the 
 previous game. Each show has it's own story as the game progresses and are good when you just want 
 to take a breather. Be sure to stay for the commercials for some lighthearted fun. 
  
  The sound department has some issues. While most of the voice acting is top notch, it seems that 
 Max just wasn't into his role this time around. All of his storytelling sounds wooden and monotone, 
 while that was a norm in the previous game, he just sounds bored this time around. Towards the 
 end of the game you'll get to thinking that the janitors he's gunning down sound better. All of 
 the guns sound great with individual sounds for each one. 
  
  Too much of a good thing isn't bad, as this installment shows. Max Payne 2 gives us more of the 
 great game play that it's known for with some additional new elements thrown in. While the game 
 play falls short in the game play department again, nothing seemed tacked on. Everything flowed 
 smoothly from beginning to end. All-in-all, Max Payne 2 is a great action game that delivers excitement 
 and a great story from beginning to end with little time to breathe in between. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wise1080
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2005 12:48 am PT
Review:  "Max Payne 1 - A Look Back"
  
  When Max Payne 1 came out it was quite possibly one of the best games of its genre. A diamond in 
 the rough among several other mediocre third-person shooters. Max Payne's standout features were 
 the great gameplay, a great story if a little short, and of course bullet-time. Max Payne had great 
 replayability due to the fact that extra modes were unlockable and the variety of great user-made 
 mods available for the game.
  
  So when i heard about the release of Max Payne 2 the first thing that came to mind was "Ok, how 
 is this going to live up to its predecessor"
  
  The Max Payne 2 release was very hyped up and highly anticipated so naturally i braced myself for 
 a letdown, "Something with this much hype can't be that good." BUT!.... I was in fact very pleasantly 
 suprised. Upon release date i went out and purchased a copy and took it home expecting it to be 
 just a piece of second grade overhyped trash which couldn't possibly live up to the original. 
 
  
  "How could it, Max Payne was just so damn good"
  
  Despite all my initial pre-conceptions Max Payne 2 was great, naturally the graphics were more 
 polished but thats not what i was looking for, what i wanted was a great story and great "suck 
 you in" gameplay, and thats what i got.
  
  Max Payne 2 definately lived up to the original and in staying true to the original Max Payne 2 
 modding tools were freely available, and it was not long after i finished the game that mods started 
 appearing on the net for Max Payne 2.
  
  The Verdict:
  
  A great game, more polished than the original in every way but still lacking length of story. But 
 the availabilty of some many great fan-made mods do in some way make up for this. Check it out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ValquR
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 15, 2005 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne 2: The Fall of Max Payne
  
  Well what can I say? I love Mafia movies and hate Star War movies. This is why this game sucks 
 me right in and doesnt let go. Sure the game play is a bit repetitive but the story grows on you.
 
  
  The Graphics:
  
  For 2003 the game looks pretty good, even on a super beast of a machine it still has a few jaggies 
 when you activate bullet time. The weapons look realistic and are very close to their real life 
 counterparts. The characters look very polished and it seems Rockstar took their time modeling 
 them; even though they should have made a few more character models. It gets ridiculous when you 
 kill the same guy 8 times in a chapter. 
  
  9/10
  
  The Sound: 
  
  The games weapons sounds are very realistic even though the Beretta lacks some power, the shotgun 
 should have had some better animation. I mean if you shoot a sawed off shotgun with one hand youre 
 asking for trouble, someone should take these animation creators out to a shooting range in the 
 near future. 
  The games main song is fairly sad and depressing but the game is basically based on this whole 
 view. 
  
  7/10
  
  The Gameplay:
  
  Wow, thats what I said when I played the first in the series, the whole fact of a lone cop running 
 around and killing hundreds of men is a little far fetched, but what more do you want? After-all 
 this is just a video game, not some cheap Steven Seagal movie. The game is basically running around 
 and killing bad guys, collecting guns, and well running around and doing cool shot dodges. Dont 
 expect any Matrix moves though; Max is in his late forties. But if you do get bored of the default 
 game there are tons of modifications around, just check out www. levels4you. com. 
  
  9/10
  
  The Story:
  
  This game is kind of like a sick and twisted suspense movie, but to an extent. 
 The story keeps you on the edge and keeps you guessing, I love the whole comic book look to it. 
 It loses you in some places and requires you to go back and play it again. You should play Max 
 Payne 1 before playing the sequel, its not mandatory but I recommend it.
  9/10
  
  To wrap things up, I love this game. It is my favorite and always will be. I still play it and 
 have over 20 modifications on my hard drive. 
  
  9.6/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 13, 2005 2:40 am PT
Review:  Fantastic visuals that features the same comicbook story telling as the first game. 
  
  The sounds are just as good as they where in the first game. 
  
  Max Payne 2: the fall of Max 
 Payne is very much like the first game, but there are a few new things that works very good. You 
 can now play two different characters: Max Payne, and the woman in his life, Mona Sax. The story 
 is great, but it can be a bit hard to really understand it, so there you have at least one reason 
 to replay it! The game isn't long, it's very short and may be one of the shortest games I've played! 
 Luigi's Mansion is easier, but that doesn't say much does it? You'll finish the game in arround 
 7 hours, but then there will be possible to play new modes which is cool. Max Payne 2 is in a way 
 better than Max Payne 1, but it's just all to short to give it a higher rank. 
  
  + 
  Everything, except the longvity! 
  
  - 
  The game is all too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 12, 2005 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Remedy Entertainment is back in the developers chair to give players a few more chapter in the 
 storyline of a man whos been through Hell and back. That mans name is Max Payne. After losing 
 his wife and child in the last game, one wouldnt think that thered be much left in Maxs life, 
 but hes been reassigned to the New York Police Department and hes trying to start over. On October 
 14th of 2003, players got the chance to become their favorite unrelenting New York Detective who 
 never seems to have a good day. From the Max Payne himself, Youd have to be a first-degree fool 
 to fall for a woman who returns from the dead only to put a gun to your face. Love Hurts.
  
  Like the first game, Max Paynes story is told through the same sort of comic book style of 
 framework that expresses the details of the characters and the story that theyre involved in. 
 The plotline is broken up into three parts including twenty-one chapters. Trouble has again come 
 to the streets of New York and Max Payne finds himself in the thick of things when he all of a 
 sudden finds his love from the first game, Mona Sax. After believing that she died from a bullet 
 wound in her head, Max is quite surprised and finds that shes also part of the mess that has the 
 Police Department of New York combing the ugly streets of downtown to find answers. But is Mona 
 causing the problems or is the actual detectives of the Police Department? Also like the previous 
 game, youll be given a few plot twists as you play as both Max and Mona as they both try to figure 
 out whats behind the smoke and fog. The storyline will take both of you through different locales 
 such as the slums of New York, construction sites, and the New York Police Department itself, among 
 many other locations.
  
  The great style of gameplay known as bullet-time is back from the first game, but is changed 
 a little. Instead of everything in the world, including Max, slowing down, now everything but Max 
 slows down giving him the opportunity to take out more enemies as hes able to sprint around bullets 
 and enemies alike. This new feature actually adds a few more styles of gameplay including the ability 
 to have bullet-time combos where Max can dive practically every way to avoid enemies, and since 
 he has the ability to move extremely fast, Max also can both see and dodge the bullets that are 
 being shot at him. These new abilities provide a lot of help when dealing with a lot of enemies 
 in a close area which seems to happen to both Max and Mona frequently. Playing as Mona doesnt 
 really differentiate from the norm of playing Max, given that she has the ability of bullet-time, 
 but its a welcome changed to be able to do some acrobatic techniques when faced with some dangers 
 such as grenades and molotovs thrown from waiting enemies.
  
  The graphical engine used in the first Max Payne has been upgraded slightly and it can be seen 
 throughout The Fall of Max Payne. Objects within the levels can and should be interacted with like 
 the first game. Boxes and other miscellaneous objects can be shot apart to reveal extra ammunition 
 and also painkillers, which are a form of health in the game. Youll be able to see your reflection 
 in every mirror any way you turn and youll also be able to turn radios and televisions on and 
 off to reveal news about you and your actions as you parade through the streets of New York leaving 
 a stream of crooked bodies across the pavement. Items such as answering machines and NPCs you find 
 around the different levels should always be interacted with to provide more about your current 
 and future objectives.
  
  The sound in Max Payne 2 was done well with the different voice acting by the different characters. 
 The grievous voice of Max Payne, when hes thinking to himself and when speaking out loud proclaims 
 a certain air of uncaring for life, and who can blame him with his string of bad luck since the 
 death of his wife and child. The musical score throughout the games many chapters make the game 
 and its environments more atmospheric in all aspects down to the sound of bullets whizzing past 
 your skull as you dive behind cover. 
  
  Again as in the first, there is not a multiplayer part to Max Payne and the single player portion 
 of the game is quite short, but Remedy Entertainment does give the game some replay value in the 
 different, what can only be described as, difficulty levels that must be unlocked only after completing 
 the game either once or on the previous difficulty level, depending on which difficulty level you 
 choose to play. Most of the different types of difficulty are from the previous game, such as New 
 York Minute and Hard Boiled, but Remedy has created another difficulty level even harder than the 
 ones previous named Dead Man Walking. This style of game can really only be compared with a deathmatch 
 type of creation. The player begins a level with one enemy on the map, but more will spawn as time 
 progresses and once you kill a particular enemy, he will again resurrect in five seconds. You get 
 points for each of the kills and your point total is given at the end.
  
  Even though Max Payne doesnt provide the player with hours and hours of gameplay like other games 
 of its time, it does provide the player with a different experience than most. With the addition 
 of a different type of bullet-time, and also a new gameplay type, Dead Man Walking, Max Payne 
 2: The Fall of Max Payne gives players a twisting plotline illustrated with great artistic work, 
 great graphics, and a 3rd person shooting experience that cant truly be rivaled by any game. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarsLander
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2005 9:37 am PT
Review:  Once again you play as Max Payne super cop able to leap tall buildings with a single oops ! wait 
 a minute, that's another game. Well anyway you are Max Payne again or are you, in the first game 
 your character looked like he was 20 to 25 years old and in this game he looks like he's aged about 
 20 years in just 1 or 2 years, I know New York is tough on people but this is crazy. Well anyway 
 Max is back with a new older look but the same bad ass attitude which is good, more mob people 
 to kill that's always fun. Anyway the story really dosen't matter to much in this game, just like 
 the last one. But the game play still kicks butt. You still have bullet time like the original 
 but the game is noticeably easier than the first game with far better graphics as well as a big 
 improvement on the graphic novel approach to moving the story along. Also you get to play as this 
 woman Named Mona from the first game, She's kinda what you'd call a sexy contract killer that's 
 got the hots for Max. Anyway you spend the time looking for some gun smugglers and it leads you 
 to some old friends ( well enemies ) and well the poop hit the fan and you kill everybody which 
 is cool. The end. Well there's more to it than that but it's not all that interesting, but the 
 gun battles are as fun as the original but more so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dawgz_Homies
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2005 6:03 am PT
Review:  Max Payne 1 could easily be called revolutionary in the action genre with bullet time alone. But 
 the bullet time is not the only the thing that made Max payne such a great game. Max Payne just 
 had the whole package! It had awesome graphics, a gripping story, hollywood production value and 
 just plain fun gameplay. Well Max Payne 2 does include more of the same but thats not a bad thing 
 at all. It still keeps the bullet time system the same since it is so simple and easy to use. The 
 graphics and havok physics engine really add depth to the game. It actually adds more "cool kill" 
 cinematic moments (like when you headshot a guy from a mile away with a sniper rifle and you see 
 him tumble down to his death in slow mo!) and the story is EVEN better than before (definately 
 taken its inspiration from a lot of action movies here) . Max Payne actually looks... well normal! 
 In the last one its like he always had the same expression on his face all the time (which if i 
 remember correctly was like a smirk of some kind) but anyway the new and improved graphics definately 
 add a new touch to this game that makes it better presented. Max Payne 2 unforunately is a very 
 short game which should take you probably 5-10 hrs to beat first try. There is also a new feature 
 called Deadman Walking which is like a sruvival mode where hordes of enemies keep respawning and 
 you see how long you can last without dying. Also the modding community is still good in max payne 
 2 as in max payne 1 (i can reccomend these two mods for you called closer to truth and cinema mod) . 
 In my opinion Max Payne 2 is definately worth getting, it is very underrated and deserves more 
 attention so we will get to see a max payne 3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smoke0
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2005 6:35 pm PT
Review:  In 2001, the first game with slowmotion (Bullettime) appeared, namely Max Payne. Devloped by Remedy 
 from Finland, and relased by Rockstar. Max Payne was relased on PC, X-box, Game Boy Advance, and 
 Playstation 2. It had a very dark story, and good gameplay, which made this a sucess. Now the squeal 
 has comed. It has taken 2 years to devlop, and has cost 2 million dollars to devlop. 
  The story: Max Payne has returned to the NYPD, returned to his life. But then one day, he investagtes 
 a warehouse, and finds Mona Sax. Remember her? She died in the elevator, or did she? Cause her 
 body was gone short after. A new clan of enemies are after Payne, they are "Cleaners". Max is now 
 left to find out what is going on. The story is great, one of the best yet, on the PC. Lets get 
 to the gameplay. There isent much that has changed since Max Payne 1, but its still make your 
 time worth. Theres nothing like running through areas, with a M4 Cabine, killing armys of enemies, 
 in bullettime. Basicly, this game is just about, killing enemies, and get to the goal, but its 
 been done better, then those games that do the same. Getting into a gun fight, is dead easy, just 
 shoot, and you are there. The guns fights, are one of the highlights in the game, they feel cool, 
 and reminds you of the gun battles you may have seen in movies such as The Matrix, and The Punisher 
 (new one) . The best thing is that you can flick on bullettime, which gives it more of a movie feeling. 
 Bullettime has changed a bit this time, so has the shooting, but thats only one thing. When you 
 shoot, after making a Shootdouge, keep holding down fire, and Max stays on the ground, until he 
 has to reload. If you flick on Bullettime, and reload, Max spins around, in super slowmotion. It 
 may not be of any good, but it looks damn cool. In bullettme, things are changed. You still get 
 more bullettime by killing enemies, or wait for the gauge to recover. In bullettime, not only you 
 get more bullettime, as you kill, it also gets better. Its not upgradebale, as you may think. 
 The more enemies he kills, the faster he gets, until he gets quicker then the eye (talking about, 
 faster then his own shadow) . The best thing about the gameplay, is quick save. Press F5, to save, 
 and F9 to load quick save. Its of coruse a great thing. The graphics are really nice. The characters 
 are nice to look at, but their animation is a little bad, but still ok. The places Max explore, 
 are now really alive. Any object, react when they are shoot at, even the dead bodys react. Its 
 a sign that the use better tools to make this game. The sound are without problems. The music are 
 really great, it gives you the feeling, of being in Max Paynes world. The sound effects, are really 
 nice, the guns sound awesome, and so does everything else. The voice acting is great again. The 
 man who voiced Max Pyne, in the first game returns, and he does a great job. The other voices are 
 good, but you may wronder over the script a little. Enemies now say things like, im gonna f*** 
 you up. You may wronder, why the say the F word. Buts it dosent matter, cause it fits into the 
 game world. If there is one bad thing about the game, its the lifesplan. It takes 8-12 hours to 
 complete, so you can blaze through it. But its save here. You unlock new modes. Besides 2 new 
 diffuctulys (Hard Boiled & Dead On Arrival for hardcore players) , you unlock 2 modes. New York 
 Minute, where you see hot quick you can complete a level. Dead Man Walking, is how long can you 
 survive in the battlefield. The gameplai itself are really enough to play it through again, cause 
 its so well done. If you dont think thats enough, go to "www. maxpayne2. com" where you can download 
 game tools, which enables you to create your own levels, and such. Countless mods are already relased, 
 so this game can be played differently for weeks. Overall its a very great. One of the most perfect 
 games yet on the PC. A must buy for all shooting game fans. Espicaly Max Payne fans. Everyone will 
 get fun. Its worth the money. Buy it, and enjory it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: montzag
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 11, 2005 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Great game once again. This is pretty much an update fo the original, but still good. The story 
 continues as max gets once again tied up with killing mobsters. Bullet time is still here and is 
 great again. Wonderful action, as you come to expect from this series. There isn't much to say, 
 this is so close to the original. If you liked the orignal, get this. Same storyboard story telling 
 and the voice acting, although done by different people, is great once again, argueably better 
 this time around. Graphics look much better this time and the sound is still just as good.
  This game is short, but it doesn't need to be that long. It continues the story to a point and 
 has an awesome ending that I just love and you will to. Pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drdroid
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 18, 2005 7:12 pm PT
Review:  This is an americanized John Woo-esque classic: beautiful cinematography, glorious action with 
 deep and sometimes heartbreaking story that involves several story archs each comprised of complex 
 motives, and how could one forget the diverse and ever-evolving arsenal of weapons: from the classic 
 dual berettas to the brand new m-16. If you loved Max Payne one, there isn't a reason in the world 
 to miss this one; heck, if you didn't like it, you should play it anyway simply to finish the epic 
 story. 
  With the realistic new graphics and exsquisite physics engine, each scenario plays out as one part 
 gun fight one part ballet, as boxes and tires flow through the air amongst the flying bullets in 
 slow motion as Max takes a spin to gracefully reload his ammo. 
  Not to give away to much of the story, but I don't think this sequel is as dark as the first, because 
 afterall there isn't much worst than the first few moments of his new life in the apocolyptic underground; 
 in fact, in parts, it feels like his life might actually be returning, but depth of character return's 
 and the human condition plays one of the greatest in the events that follow.
  As formerly noticed, the graphics are simply undisputed but the sound, it truly shines. Having 
 a surround sound system is basically a must, hearing the sound of bullets all around you create's 
 an experience like no other. The music is just as powerful this time around, though still sparsely 
 used. The cello's of the main theme at first really hype you into the game, though before the end, 
 almost tear at the walls of your heart.
  Though there isn't much to be replayed, Dead Man Walking is enjoyed by quite a few people, but 
 lookout for some crazy total conversions and new campaigns, there are already quite a few out. 
 
  I only review the best of the best, take it as a sign: if your reading this, you should be playing 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kanderstag
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 8, 2005 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Rockstar did a good job delving into the twisted realms of the human mind. I didn't play the original 
 game though. Nevertheless, the story of this game is told in a very unique way, unlike any other 
 game I've played and therein lies a very captivating feeling while playing it.
  For a game from 2003, the graphics are pretty good. The mirror was a neat and crystal clear trick. 
 Mona's funhouse was an absolute trip. So were the dream states for Max. I wasn't too keen on the 
 ending, though it did fit right in to the mood of the game. The psychology and sociology folks 
 could have a field day with all the symbolism, moods and feelings this game has/brings out.
  As for the gameplay, using bullet time and shootdodge are easy and intuitive (one you remember 
 which key to push, lol) . If you are an fps fan, disable the aiming and hourglass aids from the 
 beginning. What I didn't realize was the AI adjusted to your skill level in-game. The AI is suprisingly 
 good for a 2003 game. And yet they're stupid as a door nail, though the third-person view gives 
 Max a decided edge in battle. They'll take cover, dive out of the way, bum rush you and throw frags 
 if you hole up. To them I was a coward most of the way through the game. I suppose you could run 
 and gun through this with bulletdodge and bullet time, but I didn't want to die that often as a 
 result of the subsequent injuries affecting me for the next batch of shooters, of which there were 
 many. So often I would pick them off a few at a time. Though there were quite a few times where 
 running and gunning were the only options, and that was fun. Perhaps a bit frustrating as you're 
 trying to comprehend what's going on amidst all of this, but that is chaos at it's best. The med 
 kits were adequately and moderately dispersed through the game. By searching around and interacting 
 with the enviroment, you find all sorts of goodies, painkillers included. And your squadmates AI 
 rivals that of HL2!! Go figure.
  
  The construction site sniper scene reminded me of Enter the Matrix game. That was a refreshing 
 change of pace, to play as Mona. For a few polygons, she sure was a tempting vixen... hotter than 
 a two dollar pistol. Instant schwing if you met this woman in real life, provided she even gave 
 you the time of day. A better babe than Jack Carver's Val. Maybe more akin to Angie Jolie and Tomb 
 Raider.
  
  The replay value for this game is quite high. One or two times to capture what you missed in the 
 disjointed storyline, riddled with clues and cues if only you knew... And many more times in the 
 various gameplay modes that are unlocked after you beat it the first time.
  
  Two thumbs up, and one more for Moner Sex. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dem0nslayer89
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 21, 2005 9:47 am PT
Review:  Max Payne 2: The Fall of Max Payne is superb in every way. This game has everything that a action 
 gamer wants. It has intense cinematic 3D action and it also has unique bullet time game play. The 
 story line for this game is really unique and powerful. The story is the thing that makes you want 
 to keep going on in the game. The graphics that this game gives out is amazing. They didn't hold 
 anything back when trying to make this game. This game is really easy to get into and the game 
 play is very addictive. 
  
  This game also offers a lot of weapons to choose from. This game has had a lot of improvements 
 since the first Max Payne game. This game is great for people that like a deep story line and action-packed 
 game play. The voice actors that they chose for the characters fit exactly right with the characters. 
 The main character, Max Payne, keeps you wanting to play this game. No matter how much I play this 
 game, it never gets old for me. Also, the environments in this game is very interactive. This game 
 allow you to turn on sinks, flush toilets, open lockers, move objects, and it allows you to shoot 
 holes in to walls and mirrors. The bullet time just adds more to the greatness of this game. It 
 allows you to slow down time and lets you do stuff that you couldn't do regularly. 
  
  I really have nothing bad to say about this game. The developer's of this game did an extremely 
 great job on it and I would like to thank them for putting hard effort to making this excellent 
 game. Overall, this game is greater than most games out there and i am recommending that anyone 
 buy this game that has the money. This game is very much worth the time and money. I promise that 
 you will have lots of fun with this game. So I am giving this game a 9.3/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duxup
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2005 8:56 pm PT
Review:  In Max Payne 2 you once again assume the role of Max Payne who has returned to work for the NYPD 
 after the rampage Max went on following the murder of his wife and child that occurred in the first 
 game. Like in the first game we meet up with Max as an NYPD detective who again finds himself drawn 
 into the world of organized crime.
  
  Also like the first game the story of Max Payne 2 is told in a film nor style. Using a mix of graphic 
 novel style storyboards and in game video Max narrates the story as you progress though several 
 chapters. While some games stumble over and around their story, the Max Payne series has managed 
 to intertwine game play so that the violent and dark story unfolds beautifully. In fact many gamers 
 will likely find themselves pressing on through the game just to find out what happens next to 
 Max and the other characters.
  
  Adding to that style is the haunting music that references the original Max Payne theme but is 
 original enough not to be repetitive. Many of the most dramatics scenes are also highlighted with 
 music amplifying the experience, this includes an original piece of music by Poets of The Fall 
 called Late Goodbye specifically written for Max Payne 2. 
  
  Considering that the story is as involved as it is those who have not played the first Max Payne 
 might worry about understanding everything. Fortunately, Max Payne 2 has a good prologue built 
 into the game, and Maxs own narration in the game often references the history of the characters 
 that reappear in Max Payne 2 thus refreshing old gamers memories and enlightening new gamers. 
 
  
  The characters are another highlight of Max Payne 2. It seems every major character is fully realized 
 as if they could have been plucked out of a book or movie and placed in the game. Considering how 
 many characters there are, and that some do not get much screen time, the fact that they are as 
 three dimensional as they are is even more impressive. Characters such as the femme fatale Mona 
 Sax, mobster / fanboy Vinnie Gognitti, Russian mobster Vladimir Lem, and Alfred Woden all reprise 
 their roles from the original game and have interesting back stories and motives making them all 
 believable. To a credit to the storytelling in Max Payne 2 is so good that even minor characters 
 such as the baritone Kaufman are intriguing.
  
  Max himself has changed from the first game. He now looks notably older and worn down by life. 
 Maxs sense of humor seems to have changed as well. Maxs wisecracking is still there but the humor 
 is now much darker and more introspective. In many ways this change helps the game as sometimes 
 in the first game Maxs comments seemed to be there just to spice things up rather than fit in 
 with the mood. 
  
  While Maxs sense of humor has been muted, the games sense of humor has not been lost. Much like 
 in the first game as Max moves through the game he will pass television sets that play various 
 shows such as the Twin Peaks style Address Unknown, and a show loosely based on Maxs own life 
 called Dick Justice. These shows, while often hilarious, also seem to mock Max as he the game unfolds 
 and underscore many of the games events. In addition characters like Vinnie Gognitti introduce 
 some humor with his own obsession with Captain Baseballbat Boy collectibles.
  
  Gameplay of Max Payne 2 has not changed much from the original game, and that is a good thing. 
 Max Payne 2 is a third person shooter with a bit of a twist. When the player hits the right mouse 
 button Max will enter a mode called Bullet Time where the action slows down making it easier for 
 the player to deal with difficult situations such as when Max needs to bust into a room full of 
 bad guys and gun them down. Toss in Maxs ability to jump and roll while shooting in Bullet Time 
 system and it all makes for some great cinematic experiences where you can see the bullets from 
 Max and his enemies weapons flying through the air while shell casings cascade to the floor. 
 
  
  One change to the Bullet Time system from the first game is that after Max enters bullet time and 
 kills an enemy, the effect becomes amplified after each kill. Meaning Max can move even faster 
 as his opponents slow down even more. This can be a great deal of fun and at the same time a downright 
 necessary as Maxs opponents are almost all experienced gunmen and thus great shots.
  
  The level design for Max Payne 2 makes for some great shooting experiences as well. Max finds himself 
 shooting it out through hospitals, hallways, allies, mansions, a construction site, some upscale 
 condos and several other locations. While these locations might just sound like a basic hallway 
 crawl the level design adds a lot of variety. On top of the fact that each environment has a distinct 
 style and feel that adds a lot of realism, the level design also provides a good variety of scripted 
 encounters where various strategies that can be used.
  
  The weapons themselves add some variety as well. Like most games Max will start out with lowly 
 pistols, then dual pistols, SMGs, sniper rifles, and on up to assault rifles, Molotov cocktails 
 and grenades. Unlike some games the early weapons never become totally obsolete and with the help 
 of the bullet time system they are still useful late in the game against well armed opponents. 
 Use of the Havok physics engine also makes gunning down opponents particularly fun as they can 
 fly head over heals if you place a shotgun blast just right. Also when landing a good shot with 
 the sniper rifle you get cool cut scene where the game camera follows the bullet from the barrel 
 until it strikes the target for another cool slow-motion scene.
  
  Graphically Max Payne 2 looks great even on a lower end system. The textures lighting and human 
 models do a great job of reinforcing the gritty theme. Meanwhile on a higher end system the game 
 looks even better although the difference between low and high isnt as much as some gamers might 
 expect. Still the game still stands as one of the best looking third person shooters available.
 
  
  While Max Payne 2 has an outstanding story and great game play there are some valid complaints. 
 One is that while the Havok engine introduces some cool physics, it seems to only apply to some 
 objects in the game. A body might go flying across the room when a grenade explodes nearby, but 
 in the same space a nearby chair wont move an inch. On top of that while many opponents move fluidly 
 through the game. Max sometimes seems awkward as when he jumps he sort of bunny hops without bending 
 his legs in order to get through a windows and such spaces.
  
  The biggest complaint is probably tied to the length of the game. An experienced shooter could 
 get through Max Payne 2 in around 9 hours, less experienced gamers might take somewhere around 
 12 hours. While the game is absolutely jam packed with action and a compelling story, it is understandable 
 that both hardcore and more casual Max Payne fans might find themselves wishing there was more 
 to play. 
  
  In addition to the initial single player game there are some modes such as Dead Man Walking where 
 you are placed in one of the larger environments from the single player game and challenged to 
 stay alive as long as possible while an infinite number of opponents spawn as you kill them. Also 
 you can replay the single player campaign through other difficulty modes and on the hardest mode 
 discover an alternate ending that while interesting, just doesnt seem to fit in with the theme 
 of the game and unless you wanted to replay the single player probably isnt worthwhile just to 
 get the alternate ending. While neither of these features are unwelcome, they dont add much longevity 
 to the game either.
  
  The standard ending of Max Payne 2 deserves some special note. Depending on how involved the gamer 
 is in the story it may just seem fitting to some gamers, but this gamer found it one of the most 
 touching endings of just about any story (movie, book, video game) . It is perhaps one of those 
 things that only those who have lost an immediate family member can relate to, but Maxs last few 
 lines, while cold, can also incredibly touching.
  
  In the end Max Payne 2 is one of the best narrative experiences available in video gaming today 
 along with some third person action that has yet to be surpassed. While Max Payne 2 might be short, 
 is very sweet indeed and should not be missed by anyone looking for a great story or some third 
 person shooting action.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Royas
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 24, 2005 6:59 am PT
Review:  Max Payne 2 is a remarkable piece of work, and a worthy successor to the first Max Payne. This 
 is a great game to play, and has a lot of good features.
  
  First, the graphics are pretty darned good. They have a nice, smooth look, and they run well. No 
 skips or hesitations at all on a mid range machine. The colors are dark and somber, and everything 
 looks dirty and grungy. This sets and maintains the proper mood of film noir the game seeks. Character 
 models are pretty good, some collision detection problems, but nothing that significantly detracts 
 from the game.
  
  The sounds are crisp and clear. Gunshots sound good and authorative, and the different weapons 
 all have their own, unique sound. It is very possible to identify what gun is being fired at you 
 before you even look, a detail I appreciated. The voice acting is nothing short of superb. Max's 
 dark, brooding monotone is very appropriate for the game, and is matched by a similar tone from 
 Mona Sax (the femme fatale of the story) . Other characters also have voices that match their general 
 mood.
  
  Gameplay is fast and furious, and far from easy. You are either quick, or you are dead, period. 
 Weapons do a lot of damage, and you can't just sit still and take the hits. Which brings me to 
 my next point. Bullet time.
  
  Bullet time follows Max into the sequel, with some improvements. Bullet time always allowed you 
 to slow the world around you, while still letting you aim in real time, a big advantage for limited 
 periods. Now, not only can you aim in real time, but you also get faster moving the more people 
 you kill. Shootdodging, the act of going into bullet time while diving in some direction or another, 
 has also been improved. Before, if you did a shootdodge and ended up in the open, you were likely 
 to die before you could go through the standing animation. In MP2, you can stay down and continue 
 to fire until you clip runs out. Much more effective.
  
  The thing that always amused me about MP1 was the little details, with a dark sort of humor. MP2 
 continues that tradition, if you keep your eyes and ears open. Some of the conversations you overhear 
 from enemies can be a real chuckle. The graffiti often is interesting, and it's worth the time 
 to watch the TV in game. Just a couple of examples, there are more to be found in the game itself.
 
  
  Finally, the music is great. Most of it is dark, orchestral style, very good for the mood of the 
 game. I have to mention the band that plays the music over the closing credits, Poets of the Fall. 
 I'd never heard of them before this, but they really sound good. Check them out at their website, 
 if you get a chance.
  
  MP2 is a great game, a lot of fun, and improves on the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devouring_One
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2005 8:27 pm PT
Review:  This game picks up a couple of years after the first Max Payne. The story is not confusing and 
 complicated as the first one. This game isn't as dark as the first one with the revenge theme. 
 Not many things have changed since the first game. The graphics have improved the most. It is one 
 of the best looking games out there. 
  
  More gameplay modes have been added to make the game more entertaining. Since the gameplay of the 
 first one was good anyway, there wasn't any need to change it. The gameplay is still the same, but 
 they more features to the game. With the addition of the Havok engine which is my favorite part 
 of this game, almost everything has it's own physics and weight. You can play around with the physics 
 by blowing up and shooting people/things. 
  
  The sound is pretty good. It puts you with the feeling of the game and the voice acting is impressive. 
 But the sound effects sound pretty dated and cheap. One the most disapointing things about this 
 game is the length. Even though the length was disappointing you can find some replay value in 
 it to play certain parts of the game to try out new things. You can also play the other game modes 
 for fun too. This game should be picked up by PC gamers, but I wouldn't recommend you to get the 
 console version. This is one of the best games of 2003. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalsnakezero
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 22, 2005 12:11 am PT
Review:  I never played the first max payne but it didn't stop me from playing this one. Graphics are joy 
 to see , from bullet holes to the inside of a building everything looks great and with a havok 
 physics engine battles in bullet time feel like you'll play a movie. The story is understandable 
 even if you didn't play the first. It's being called "A film noir love story" and it is. The love 
 between max and mona grows strong as the story unfolds. Each battle you get in will all ways be 
 new even if you shot the same guy over and over. Voice acting was very well done to help the story 
 along. On the down fall it's short, it take me about 9 or 10 hours to finish. Also sound had problems 
 at times during game play and little more with the gameplay would made it perfect. In the dead 
 end of an alley Max payne Takes a bullet to the head once more but comes back even stronger."Short 
 But Sweet" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rover301
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 26, 2005 3:43 pm PT
Review:  I loved the first Max Payne. The graphics, the gameplay, bullettime, everything was great about 
 it. And now there's a sequel. And it's a better game than the extraordinary good first game.
  
  The gameplay is still very good. Bullettime 2.0 is an improvement if you compare it to bullettime 
 1.0. Now the more enemies you shoot, the slower Max becomes. It makes the game more easier for 
 gamers who never played Max Payne and play it for the first time.
  
  The graphics are amazing. The textures are great. The character models are great. Only the cleaners 
 look like clones from eachother. This time the character models have facial animations. And with 
 the 'Ragdoll' physics the shootouts look more realistic and are much better then the first game.
 
  
  The sound is also very good. When Max is in bullettime, the sound becomes muted. You can hear the 
 bullets rushing by. But it is sometimes repetitive.
  
  Max Payne doesn't have any multiplayer modes. But it has a mode called Dead Man Walking. It's a 
 very fun and an addicting mode. But it's not the same as multiplayer. But Max Payne does have enough 
 replay value to keep you busy.
  
  I think Max Payne 2 is one of the best games ever made. I can't wait for Max Payne 3. This game 
 is a must have for the pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nico4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 13, 2005 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne 1 was a stunning succes because of its bullet-time now Max Payne is back in Max Payne 
 2 The Fall Of Max Payne (stupid name eh?) .
  The story finds you as Max he has joined NYPD and working for his old boss Jim but under an invastigation 
 he meets Mona Sax whos an assasin then the rest of the story his about Max fails in love with 
 Mona and Max protecting her from the police and stuff.
  The gameplay is like MP1 you run round and kill everything that moves also when hes outguned you 
 should just kill them thats not a good tactic for a man whos is outguned but thanks to Maxs 
 bullet-time hes able to kill small armys bullet-time works like this.
  In bullet-time you simply kill everyone and with each kill in bullet-time Max becomes faster and 
 the emenys more slower its a good system but i rather want the MP1 bullet-time.
  There are something thats missing from the gameplay you cant stand up against the wall like in 
 Metal Gear Solid or Enter The Matrix.
  The graphics are good the characters looks very good and its looking very good when you kill an 
 emeny because when you kill an emeny the body respond and they fly away its done like real bodys 
 would do.
  The voices are good but almost all of the voices is new expect for Max hes still got his old voice.
 
  The game itself is short shorter then MP1 but with the mods you chould play it forever.
  So all in all Max Payne is just as fun and as good and MP1 its entertaining and beautiful and 
 fun every fan of shoot em up should buy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RockyMntRebel
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 30, 2005 9:56 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne 2 is a great follow up to the first Max Payne. The story is great just like the first 
 game. Max Payne 2 like the previous game is short but sweet. I do wish there was more levels if 
 it didn't compromise the story. The story ties in well to the first one. You almost have to play 
 the first one to understand much of the story of this one. However there is an option where you 
 can get a brief explanation of what happened in the first game in case you have not played it. 
 The story is well written but much darker than the first game. It's a dark love story. 
  
  The gameplay is what you would expect from a 3rd person shooter like Max Payne. It's very fun and 
 entertaining. The bullet time is even better than the first. The music and sound is better too. 
 The dramatic music is a dynamic fit to the game. The tunes are very catchy. Max still has the same 
 voice from the first one, but he isn't as humorous since the story is much more dark. Not that 
 first game was a comedy or anything. The levels are well designed. My favorite level is the construction 
 site in Part 2 of the game. You also get to play Mona Sax in a few levels. Kind of a nice touch. 
 The final level is kind of a pain though. You'll see what I mean when you get there.
  
  The PC version is by far better than any other. I originally had bought the PS2 version when it 
 came out and was disappointed by the graphics so I bought the PC version. The graphics are superb 
 and it's a much funner experience than the PS2. The PS2 version isn't bad, but the PC version is 
 much better. I rarely buy PC games, but this one is worth it. Give it a try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: special_biff
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 29, 2005 3:54 am PT
Review:  Now, I love 3rd person shooters, but only once in a while does one this awesome come along. I know 
 most people out there are just sitting there thinking, what makes this different from all these 
 other third person shooters, well I'll tell you.
  
  1. Graphics. Some of the most amazing graphics I've ever seen (you can't compare to Half Life 2, 
 but you should already know that) . The talking and cutscenes are superb, and the gameplay graphics 
 are a lot better then some of the crap you see these days.
  
  2. Physics. Move anything and everything you want, whenever you want, wherever you want, hey it's 
 a womens paradise. But seriously the physics here actually rivals those of Half Life 2. All you 
 need is a gravity gun and your set.
  
  3. Sound. The sound in this game literally makes you jump out of your seat. Whether your in one 
 of those "it's quiet, a little too quiet" and then someone jumps at you moments, or your in the 
 middle of a gun fight with some dual mac10's.
  
  Unfortunately there are bad stuff about this game. For instance the first time I played I beat 
 it in a day. Maybe they should add some more cities you have to go through to add some more gameplay 
 elements. Whatever happens lets just hope Max Payne 3 takes meat least a week to beat. And when 
 there are a whole bunch of people in one place shooting, it gets a bit of lag, actually it gets 
 a lot of lag. 
  
  But altogether if you separate the pros from the cons, you still get a helluva excellent game. 
 And the bottom line is you need to by it. Now go, buy it, get.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: M-Yu
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 25, 2005 9:57 am PT
Review:  New York's Toughest Cop, Max Payne is back and he wakes up in a hospital and tell us a story about 
 how he got there and also he knows a beautiful woman named Mona Sax and a there's a forbidden love 
 story. and his friend Vladimir Lem is releasing a new club called Vodka and Max is having nightmares 
 about Mona and his fellow officer Winterson is having connections with Vlad and Vinnie Gognitti 
 is on his hitlist and it is apparent that Max's friend is his enemy.
  The graphics in the game are awesome and the bullet time sequences are improved where the enemies 
 are slowed down while you move at normal speed shooting enemies is satisfying and the graphic-novel 
 sequences are cool and there is a new playable character and overall one of the greatest games 
 of 2003. it is not to be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: salad10203
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2004 10:49 pm PT
Review:  UNREAL, this game is awesome. The single player alone is interesting and will give you chills. 
 The atmosphere of the game is unlike any other game I have ever played and will be loved. The action 
 is a work of art with the extremelly well done bullet-time. Seeing every bullet shot whiz by, and 
 mayhem all around. It is truly a work of art. And there is an extensive amount of mods that only 
 prolong the great game even more. Must buy. Some say this game is short, but I bought it immediately. 
 And now its december of the next year, and i still play frequently.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerbudgp1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 23, 2004 12:25 am PT
Review:  Max Payne is back and this is mainly a movie than a game, it is also a love story. It is so fun going 
 in slow motion. If you've never played Max Payne one you will be very lost.
  
  The gliches step out when you see a black screen where the graphics should be.
  
  Things you 
 need to nkow if you are too young:
  The game conists of massive 1. Gore
  2. bad
  3. Bad Language
  4. some very MATURE adult-only scenes you should be aware or.
  
  The slow 
 time is the same as the original and the wepons seem the same too but you will enjoy the amazing 
 graphics. Max Payne is getting ravenge on the people who killed his family on the first one.
  
  Max Payne 2 is only 20.00 now, unless if you find a better price, i think you should buy it. Max 
 Payne 3 will be out in 2006 most likely. Do not get this game on PS2, unless if that is the only 
 system that it will run on in your home, because the controls and graphics is terrible on the PS2 
 version.
  
  Graphics-10
  Gameplay-8
  Tilt-9
  Value-10
  sound-10
  Final Score that i would give it would be a 9.0.
  
  Try not to use cheats on this game, it takes 
 all the fun away, Because the main flaw in the game is that it is very short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_levane
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2009 8:08 pm PT
Review:  An excellent script, great voice acting and awesome gameplay combine together to make "Max Payne 
 2: The Fall of Max Payne" a superb sequel. Writer Sam Lake has penned a non-linear storyline for 
 adults which plays out like a cross between "Memento" and "Pulp Fiction". It is a throwback to 
 the old "Film Noirs" of the 1940's. You need to play it more than once to truly understand how 
 it all ties up in the end. The graphic novel panels that move the story forward (or backwards) 
 are superb and so is the musical score. James Macaffrey once again does a great job voicing his 
 role as laconic detective Max Payne. Other returning characters include femme fatale Mona Sax, 
 senator Alfred Woden and mobsters Vinnie Cognitti and Vladimir Lemm. The action gameplay is not 
 much different than what came before, it's just more refined. "Bullet Time" has been upgraded and 
 the weapons (both new and old) are a kick to use. The graphics are sweet, very much improved from 
 the first title. And the rag doll physics are awesome. But what I love most about the game is how 
 it manages to deliver a captivating, emotional love story. You actually do care what happens to 
 the characters. Like "Grand Theft Auto: Vice City" before it, "Max Payne 2: The Fall of Max Payne" 
 borders on art. It has beautifully written poetic dialogue on the subject of love and sacrifice. 
 The atmosphere is pure "Film Noir" and the twisted puzzle story is ingenius. Oh, it also has the 
 best kick ass action sequences you'll ever play in a third person shooter. A one-of-a kind, memorable 
 experience . *** 1/2 out of ****. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vitor_M
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 6, 2004 9:22 pm PT
Review:  No game has ever quite captured my imagination or brought me back tp play it over and over again 
 quite like this one since Metal Gear Solid 1 for the original playstation.
  
  It is very rare for me to play a game so often adn do redo the main story line several times after 
 finishing but for some reason this game is one that won't let go. For one thign, the graphics are 
 amazing and every new area looks great in its own way, add to that the realistic physics and the 
 ability to play around with virtually anythign yuo can see and it makes for one truly amazing thiseral 
 experience.
  
  The sounds is also top notch, wiht great music (especially the main theme and 'Late Goodbye' by 
 Poets of the Fall in the credits who have now become one of my favourite bands of all time) and 
 great voice acting to boot. The story is well told and not at all as bad and cliche as many reviewers 
 made it out to be. You reallly care about the characters and the graphics novels are a vast improvement 
 over those found in the orginal max payne.
  
  No, this isn't a long game, if you wanted you could complete it in a day or two but its replayability 
 is such that you will be back for more on the harder modes and you will constantly keep trying 
 to better your times on dead man standing mode, which places you in an area with a wave of never 
 ending enemies who randomly spawn and you just have to stay alive as long as possible. I love this 
 game and anyone who gives it a shot will too, its rare to find a game quite as polished and well 
 done as this and the community are releasing so many mods that if you ever get bored, theres always 
 somethign new and different for you to try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 5, 2004 12:53 am PT
Review:  Max Payne returns in this, the sequel to the first game. The story picks up a few months after 
 the last one and has Max Payne on the NYPD. Things aren't going so well for our hero as we see 
 him brought into the hospital on death's door. What happens from there is a trip through a web 
 of decipt and trechary that again engulfs Max abd Mona Sax. Yes, you read that right, you actually 
 play Mona for several of the chapters. She is a nice change of pace and is pretty lethal with a 
 rifle. 
  
  Many of the characters from the first Max Payne make return visits, including Vladimir Lem, Chief 
 Bravura, Vinnie Gognini, Alfred Wooden and of course Mona Sax. 
  
  The story unfolds the same way as the previous one with three main parts that are broken up into 
 chapters. They will take you to warehouses, hospitals, mansions and even a funhouse. All of the 
 levels and backgrounds are spendidly rendered, and the physics are amazing. Everything is play. 
 You can interact with just about everything. The sound is great and the score is phenominal. The 
 AI is pretty tight and the enemy for the most part is pretty smart at ducking and covering and 
 only occasionally goes braindead.
  
  The sore spot in this game is the length of the game. I was able to finish it in about 10 hours 
 at the most. And an hour of that was spent at the end trying to figure out how to get to the final 
 challenge. I loved this game and the story had me hooked from the get go, but when it ends so soon, 
 you feel a bit cheated. I hope that Rockstar allows the great Max to go an extra part or extends 
 the chapters a bit, because it is a stinger for those that pay $50 for a game that is over in the 
 span of two afternoons. I know that you unlock harder difficulty modes, but it is essensially the 
 same game.
  
  Don't get me wrong though, because those 10 or so hours were amazing and you will be thrilled at 
 all this game has to offer, but in the end, you will wish it had not ended so soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: underdark944
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2004 4:43 am PT
Review:  Max Payne 2 is one of the best games of 2003. You'll find everything excellent about this game 
 but it proves to be way to short, around 8 hours the first time. But doing it at another difficulty 
 isn't hard... it's still pretty fun.
  
  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay is mostly about using the bullet-time correctly plus an another slow-movement 
 that isn't bullet-time. The game is really impossible to beat without using this correctly. But 
 in fact it isn't hard to do. And pretty fun. Bullet-time is one of the best aspects of Max Payne 
 2. But beneath B-T, there isn't anything special about the gameplay, you just seek cover, activate 
 bulletime, and do a move to give the advantage over your enemies. It's very cool. Grenades and 
 molotov can also be shot and you'll learn that they're very useful and that the molotov is satisfying 
 when well-timed.
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics are really beautiful. This engine should be used more often because it has 
 good framerate and isn't too demanding but still very beautiful. Characters, textures, shadows, 
 bulletime effects, its all there.
  
  SOUND: The sound is pretty decent. There is no music. The weapons do theyre job pretty well. The 
 voice-acting is okay even I like Max Payne's thoughts throughtout the game.
  
  VALUE: A weak aspect of the game. Lasts only 8 hours but can be played several times easily without 
 being tired. Additional modes can be played but I never falled in them.
  
  TILT: It runs very well without any bugs and good fps.
  
  --------------  HIGHS: :) Excellent 
 scenario
  :) Pretty and economic graphics
  :) Solid action
  :) Great Bullet-time
  --------------  LOWS: : ( Lasts only 8 hours
  : ( Actually ends 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whaught
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 19, 2004 3:21 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed playing MAx Payne 2. The awesome interactivity with physics made the bullettime 
 gun fights sooo sweet. I often sat turning on tvs and knoking over stuff for fun. I even found 
 pleasure in placing grenades underneath bodies and then in slo motion shooting them (PUUULLLLLL!) . 
 I also loved the scripted conversations, there we lots of cool easter eggs and such. The only dissapointing 
 thing was that the game was rather short and the plot was a bit lame. It was kind of a joke when 
 they had "squeaky cleaners" and random cartoon characters. I also don't really like the cartoon 
 intros to each level but thats just me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrokov
Rating: 5.3
Date: Oct 6, 2004 2:56 am PT
Review:  Let's get one thing straight. I loved the first Max Payne. In many ways it was a revelation. Once 
 I downloaded Ken Yeung's fabulous Kung Fu version mods, I had a whole new revelation. I still fire 
 it up every now and then; it's that good.
  
  Max Payne 2 is no Max Payne. Sure the graphics are better, but gameplay just isn't quite as good. 
 It's more difficult to hit an opponent, largely because the controls are floaty and not precise. 
 Conversely, it's practically impossible not to get hit. In MP1, if you were good, you could dodge 
 most bullets (especially critical when playing Kung Fu) , but in MP2 you'd be swiss cheese before 
 you could ever close to hand to hand distance. (So why did they even bother to put a pistol whip. 
 There is never a time when silence is better than two in the head.)
  
  Other problems include the weapon modeling. There seems to be very little difference between the 
 9mm and Desert Eagle, whereas in MP1 you could definitely tell the difference. There is also very 
 little opportunity to use the sniper rifle to good tactical advantage. In fact, most of the game, 
 you don't even have a sniper rifle.
  
  Now getting to the multiple personalities. The game features similar humorous touches like the 
 first game did. Phone messages, television shows, billboards, conversations are all funny. But 
 the rest of the game takes itself so seriously that the difference is jarring. Jame McCaffrey as 
 Payne again narrates the story with even more deadpan style than MP1... if that's possible, but 
 without MP1's self mocking nature. The music is moody, even depressing (although fabulous) . The 
 whole ball of wax is just not congruent.
  
  MP2 feels more like a new story than the continuation of Max Payne. Payne's character model is 
 based on a different person. Mona Sax, Vinnie Gognitti, and Vladimir are all obviously voiced by 
 different actors to the detriment of the story. Vladmir and Mona also seem to be based on different 
 characters. Max has lost his sense of humor, but not his melodrama.
  
  There are just so many things that could have been done that were not. Max should be addicted to 
 Valkyr, but his struggles are never mentioned. "The flesh of fallen angels" features prominently 
 in dreams and the funhouse, but nothing ever comes of it. There seems to be a much larger story 
 between Vlad, Woden, and Mona, but we never find out about it. After crafting such a good story 
 for MP1, its sad to see Rockstar stumble so badly on MP2's story.
  
  And finally, there is gratuitous cussing with liberal use of the F word. I don't have anything 
 against adult language or themes per se, but it makes it so that I have to play the game with head 
 phones instead of my Klipsch speakers so as not offend other people in the house. Moreover, I don't 
 think saying "You stupid F..." improves the game vastly over "You stupid moron, idiot, fool, etc." 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackFunk
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 4, 2004 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne 2 is a continuation of the first part. You don't need to but the immersion into the story 
 line is incredible having played both games. In essence MP2 is a first person shooter telling a 
 film noire/Bogart style story about a man looking for answers about the death of his family.
  
  The story is well played out in the fps genre mixing sequences with comic book style interval 
 story telling followed by different chapters of mostly shooting but also dream sequences, illusions 
 and some more.
  
  I loved the game because it's simply a very good story told in a very good way using good visuals.
 
  
  Get this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr0wnage_PhD
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 29, 2004 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne 2 may be the best 3rd Person shooter in the history of video games with Mafia being the 
 only one which may be better. Great dark story, great voice acting, superb graphics and sound and 
 some of the best gameplay you will ever experience.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are close to perfect. You can't really find any faults in it. The character 
 models are finely detailed, character animation is done perfectly, the textures are detailed and 
 crisp, gun models are great. You can't find anything wrong with them. And the game runs great on 
 modest systems and overall great graphics engine.
  
  Sound: Some of the best voice over acting in a game. There are quite a few characters and all the 
 voice acting for all of them is done very well which adds to the great story. The gun sounds are 
 well done as are special effects and any music in the game.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is very fluid and done extremely well. The bullet time is even better in 
 this sequel and Max has a couple new techniques with bullet time. Besides using Max there is a 
 point in the game when you will control the female protagonist Mona her dodging techniques are 
 different from Max's as she will do cartwheels as her dodge. Playing as Mona adds some variety 
 to the game which is refreshing. The story is even better than the first games story. You start 
 off waking up in a hospital and sort of play through a flashback of what has happened. You find 
 out more and more about the story as you go along and it gives you some suprises and twists. The 
 story overall is very dark and sometimes disturbing. 
  
  The level designs are varied as are some of the missions you will go on. One of the better missions 
 is when you will be escorting Baseball Batboy. Some of the funniest dialogue in game will occur 
 in this level that will have you laughing. Mona's Funhouse is another well designed and unique 
 level. Levels such as those really makes for a varied and fun experience that is hard to put down. 
 The game is short, it may take you anywhere from 6 - 10 hours to finish but it is so action packed 
 and immersive that every minute is worth it. You won't find many games with such great action and 
 story combined in one. Max Payne 2 is one of if not argueabley the best 3rd person shooter of all 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martlume
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2004 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Third-person shooters are rare, but can be extremely cool as proved by Finnish company Remedy's 
 Max Payne. As an ex-cop blindly looking for vengeance for his murdered family, you go through spooky 
 and very detailed NYC environments, "dodgeshooting" myriads of bad guys ("dodgeshooting" means 
 shooting while jumping in any direction, like in Matrix) . Dodgeshooting is a special pleasure to 
 use together with the most celebrated feature of Max Payne, "bullet time." BT lets you slow the 
 game down for a while, making it much easier to dodge bullets swishing your way and improving your 
 aim to near-perfect. Max Payne's action moves are very smooth and easy to pull off and in that 
 sense it is one of the most innovative shooters of recent years. The second part improved on an 
 already great game, adding fantastic storytelling for a shooter (the term game noir originates 
 from the first Max Payne) with a love story, and probably the funniest / craziest levels ever seen 
 in a shooting game (some taking place in a dream or other fictional environments; an especially 
 hilarious level is set in an abandoned amusement park) .
  
  17/20 - Based on : 20 HOURS
  4/4 PRODUCTION VALUES - Beautiful game, indoor environments in fictional New York are great at 
 bringing some variety to game's repetitive shooting.
  4/4 ACCESSIBILITY - No lessons needed.
  3/4 PACING - A lot and lot of repetitive shooting. Then 
 again, there are some dream levels with no guns at all. Then again, it's Max Payne.
  3/4 INNOVATION - That jumping thing is cool. I am not sure if one should build 20-hour game around 
 it, though.
  3/4 IMMERSION - It comes back with cut-scenes and goes away in the middle of big firefights. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccooke
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 11, 2004 4:44 pm PT
Review:  this game folows the very mierable and bloody adventures of max paynen the maybe worst cop.
  
  why is he a bad cop? because he never arrests he just kills and kills and kills
  
  anyone 
 planning to become a police officer please dont do this
  
  thank you 
  
  anyways he also cant stop thinking about the creepy assasin mona sax 
  
  i wont say anything 
 about the story im not giving it away
  
  the gameplay is well what you would expect from max payne and its very very easy
  
  the endless 
 shooting and killing and slaghtering gets very repeditive because you always shoot the same baddies 
 again and again and so on
  
  other than this its very fun and theirs awsome rag doll phisics and those of you who are really 
 sick and like lots of gore its here
  id like to add if it didnt have a story it would be total crap all games with no stories are anyway.
 
  oh yes and its quite short too
  
  if you have played max payne and want more go buy this now
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheWildthang
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 11, 2004 12:10 am PT
Review:  If you're like me and don't have a lot fo spare time to sit down and actually play through your 
 games collection, Max Payne 2 is the answer to your prayers. Just like a good short book, it will 
 keep glued to your screen just to see how the plot develops, it's not overly long and each chapter 
 (or level) serves a purpose in revealing the story.
  
  The style of the game is much the same as the first.. gritty, dark with a little toungue in cheek 
 humour here and there for good measure. Particularly worth a mention is the excellent use of the 
 Havoc physics engine which beautifully hurls objects around the screen with gusto. There's nothing 
 quite like diving over a table and watching the room errupt with gunfire, splinters and explosions 
 as the baddies try to 'cap yo ass'.
  
  I really loved this game from start to finish. It's as I'd always imagined how a movie tie in should 
 work. Being entertained by the game itself whilst also being hooked by the plot and wanting to 
 resolve it all to a conclusion (rather than it being an after thought) . I strongly reccomend you 
 try this if you love any type of John Woo film (dig those slow motion action scenes) or indeed 
 any sort of action films at all. This will be your dream come true! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canine_Knight
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 7, 2004 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne 2 is a very intense, thrilling action game. in the game there is a wide variety of weapons 
 at your desposal and many of the objects found in the levels are movable. the game has a really 
 great physics system and fantastic graphics. but what really makes the game unique is its use of 
 bullet time or slow motion that max is able to use in order to slaughter his enemies. this is very 
 fun to use and really adds a lot to the game. the game is fairly short but u can always go back 
 and try the various game types, difficulty settings, or just play any of the levels over again. 
 the sound is very atmospheric and each characters voice acting is very well done. though the levels 
 are basicly the same in what you do (shoot bad guys) there is a variety of different mission types 
 that keep it interesting and the gamer coming back for more. this is one of my favorite PC games 
 and a game any action fan should have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: houli252
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 6, 2004 11:28 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne 2 which is the sequel to Max Payne (duh) is in my own opinion better. The beginning your 
 kind of like "what?" but as the story progresses you'll understand the point. Max Payne 2 is not 
 as dark as the first one but is definatley not any happier. The games story is compelling, with 
 lots of twists and turns in the story. This time around you'll most likey be using your bullet 
 time instead of the infamous slow-mo dive. Reason being because as Max starts getting rid of more 
 guys the slower time goes and the faster he goes! The game features awesome physics. Rag Doll physics (body 
 corresponds to where the body part got shot and what it got shot with) which really makes this 
 game different than the first one. If your a fan of the first one or you need a new third person 
 for your computer, i highly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoshThePimp
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 29, 2004 6:58 pm PT
Review:  I'll start with the highs.
  
  The story:
  The story is incredibly believable.
  You can almost imagine that the characters in this game are real people.
  The only story in a 
 game that rivals it is the first one.
  
  The voice acting:
  Hands down the best I have ever heard in a game.
  
  The gameplay:
  Gameplay is the most important 
 part of a game. The gameplay would get a 20 from me if it were allowed. It's right up there with 
 UT2004 for best gameplay in a PC game.
  
  The Graphics:
  Last but not least the graphics.
  Even today they are mindblowing for me. On a 2GHZ, 512 ram, 
 Radeon 9200, Windows ME computer this game runs FLAWLESSLY at its highest settings. The graphics 
 for me are just mind blowing on the PC and still really good on the Xbox. The PS2 graphics I'm 
 sorry to say, really suck. It is in the top ten for best graphics for me right up with UT 2004, 
 Far Cry, Doom 3, and other games with good graphics. Just like the original was back in 2001.
 
  
  Now the lows. 
  
  There are few lows.
  Every game has its flaws.
  
  Length.
  This is the achilles heel of MP2.
  I finished the game in about 12 hours, longer than other people, 
 because I stopped frequently just to admire the chaos.
  
  I can't really think of anything else that is bad about this game.
  
  I hope you all can see 
 my points.
  
  Max Payne 2 is trully a wonderful game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kuruptt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2004 8:22 am PT
Review:  this game as i sayad its crazy the Chapter's love them .. but its scary little when i play it in 
 midnight it scare's me little .. LOL .. the gameplay its great i enjoy it and i didnt completed 
 it i am in PART I .. Chapter 4 so.. i like this game so much .. the graphic's are amaizing
  i love the graphic's in this game the sound its great 2 
 
  
  
  
  Graphic's ::
  
  the graphic's as i sayad amaizing because i see all things clearly and the MAX PAYNE's Face then 
 monna's are very nice maded........ this is the one that i love the game
  
  SOUND ::
  
  The sound crazy too i hear some sounds from a sick people in the other room etc etcc
  it meaan 
 to be plaaaaayed MAX PAYNE 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yurik
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 24, 2004 1:17 am PT
Review:  MAX PAYNE was a great game. (See my review for it on GameSpot.) Was this as good? Well, not in 
 some ways; and in others, it was better. But, in the end, it's another fine product, with qualities 
 all other 3D action game makers should aspire to. 9.3.
  
  GAMEPLAY (9) . This was by far the best aspect of the original game. The game's implementation of 
 Bullet-Time (more specifically, shootdodging) was revolutionary in games. So MP2 had a tough act 
 to improve on -- and yet it managed to do so. Shootdodging (flying, in slow-motion, through the 
 air, while being able to aim in real-time) still works the same way -- and is almost as effective. 
 However, it no longer drains the Bullet Time meter. Wouldn't this make the game too easy? No. The 
 enemies are much smarter and quicker in Max Payne 2, so shootdodging only will be good enough to 
 get you through the easiest difficulty level, but no farther. This is where actual Bullet-Time 
 comes in. You see, in Max Payne 1, pure Bullet-Time was basically useless, since it drained the 
 meter so quickly. In Max Payne 2, the more enemies you kill across a short period of time, the 
 yellower the meter becomes; this makes you move closer to real speed, while your environment (and 
 enemies!!) move at typical slow BT speed. So, if you kill many enemies quickly, you become the 
 Flash. The effect is awesome, if oddly superhuman. But then the yellow quickly fades, so you better 
 make use of it while it lasts; meaning you can't think too long. BT also lets you get the first 
 shot off when you round a corner. All-in-all, an excellent system.
  
  But now I've rambled about BT for so long, and it seems perfect -- so why "only" a 9 for gameplay? 
 It's especially strange since MP2 features more interesting environments than MP1. For example, 
 a tour-de-force layered action sequence between Max and another character (Mona Sax) at a construction 
 site (scaffolding, etc.) is simply stunning, and probably even better than the skyscraper levels 
 of MP1. Here is the only problem with the action, costing a point: It's broken up by cutscenes 
 and chapter breaks A LOT. It's not that the cutscenes are bad -- they're excellent -- but I really 
 want to take my time through a level, and I don't want to be interrupted constantly. Cutscenes 
 are good, but at least make the levels longer, then. And speaking of the levels, they are 100% 
 linear, just like the 1st game, though I am not saying that's a detriment. The last thing I wanted 
 to do, in a game like this, is solve puzzles.
  
  Wow, this is a long gameplay section. Bear with me. There's another excellent element to the gameplay, 
 which almost brings it back to a 10. The physics. Almost everything is movable, and you can actually 
 use this to your advantage. Planks and barrels will fall on enemies after explosions. You can move 
 objects for cover. And there's nothing like a good slo-mo depiction of an enemy flying over a railing. 
 And the pre-scripted and non-pre-scripted explosions themselves have to be seen to be believed.
 
  
  GRAPHICS (10) . This is the best-looking FPS or TPS I have seen yet. I'm not kidding. There are 
 basically two types of quality graphics engines: (A) Made for big, expansive environments, many 
 players, and a high frame-rate, with lower-res but more colorful textures; (B) Made for smaller, 
 more moody environments, for a single player, with realistic and detailed high-res textures. A 
 fine example of (A) is, say, Unreal Tournament. MP2 is probably the best example of type (B) , perfectly 
 realized (another example is Metal Gear Solid 2) . The amount of high-res texture work for this 
 game is absolutely ridiculous. I mean, you don't notice it because it just seems so right; it feels 
 like you're in a real place, whether it be Max's crappy apartment building, or Mona's whacked out 
 Funhouse complex. I think this game features the most realistic-looking environments I've ever 
 seen. The sheer amount of detail the level designers put into this is staggering.
  
  But, I've talked about environments for so long, you might think there's nothing else to the graphics. 
 The enemies look good, and Max and Mona look excellent. Especially Mona. When she gets naked. ... Moving 
 on, the animations are all stellar (well, the enemies can still be a little wooden when moving 
 around) , especially once the rag-doll physics kicks in. There's lip synching, but it's not too 
 good (at least it's there) . In general, the characters look good, but not completely perfect like 
 the environments. Finally, the particle effects and explosions are outstanding. Shell casings, 
 etc., still persist. Quick note: the slo-mo bullet trail effects don't seem to be as prevalent 
 as in the first game, which is disappointing (but perhaps more realistic) .
  
  SOUND (10) . The sound is perfect. Voice acting (especially Max and Mona's) is great, the bullet-time 
 and normal weapon effects are deafening, and the music -- which rarely kicks in -- is kicka$$. 
 And the script... well... film noir to the max. Enough said. (By the way, get ready for some serious 
 f-words.)
  
  VALUE (7) . Well, this would be the big weakness. I was compelled to give it a 6 at first, but then 
 I remembered that the mods would come a-flying; and they'll probably be much less buggy than the 
 original's (even the Kung Fu mod had many issues!) . So add 1 point. This game is so short. It's 
 unbelievable: 8 hours, and that's probably above average, since I explore so carefully. It's a 
 very dense 8 hours, with lots of humor and action and story, but it's EIGHT hours. That's SHORTER 
 than the original, which was short. I'm not surprised; the levels are too meticulously crafted 
 for this game to be longer and not be diluted, which is the last thing I want. But that's not the 
 point. The point is, does it have replay value? The answer is: some, but not much. Difficulty levels 
 unlock one by one, with the most difficult one (Dead On Arrival) supposedly having a different 
 ending. That's exciting enough for me to play the game again; and the game is still fun. Add Dead 
 Man Walking (an interesting addition, where you kill as many respawning enemies as you can) , and 
 you have some reasons to whip out the game again. But it's not urgent. A generous 7 here.
  
  TILT (10) . I tilt this game by 10 because of its 2nd-most important element (after the gameplay) : 
 the story. I haven't said much about it, but it's really the meat of Max Payne 2. It's true that 
 the script for this game is huge. Almost all the enemies engage in conversations, which are always 
 entertaining. And the story arc is outstanding, with the love relationship between Max and Mona 
 both maturely handled and compatible with the story's noir aspirations. It helps that Mona is foxy 
 and deadly, and it helps that villain (whose identity I won't give away) is charismatic and likeable. 
 I also like the 3-point chronological setup of Max's story (he narrates from point C, the recollection 
 starting at a crisis at point B, and then quickly moving back to point A, and then resuming from 
 point B to explain how we got to point C) . But it's not just a good story (for the record, much 
 better, in and of itself, than the first game's) ; it's well told. The game treats the player like 
 an adult, and I like that. It's definitely not for 9-year-olds. And a sense of style and grit permeates 
 every image, cutscene, and sound.
  
  9.3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ummagumma
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2004 9:33 am PT
Review:  Currently, I consider this the best PC game I've ever played. It is a truly stunning production 
 that hits all its marks with deadly precision. Great graphics, an angst-ridden noirish story that 
 pulls back a notch or two from the goofy original, and what has to be the best level designs ever 
 in an FPS. It takes all of the elements of the first Max Payne game, such as the bullet-time effect 
 that slows down everything but your crosshair, and gives them a tweaking that makes it all work 
 that much better. And it also adds a few new twists, that sends everything over the top in truly 
 magnificent fashion. If you are a PC gamer, this is the one game you should have in your collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rester
Rating: 5
Date: May 29, 2004 10:39 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is OK, even though the camera can be a pain in the ass.
  It's a very short game, with some boring sequences that are there just to tell the story. The main 
 character is a jackass, not very exciting and involuntarily ridiculous in many instances. Gameplay 
 is very repetitive, and the cool "bullet time" effect is not cool anymore after the 100th killing. 
 That also gives you an unfair advantage towards your enemies, making the game pretty easy to beat.
 
  Graphics are kind of lame, most of the times, all levels look pretty much the same, characters 
 definitely look like puppets and textures are poor in many cases.
  Bleah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ender
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 22, 2004 2:36 pm PT
Review:  I just finished this game and loved it to death. I'm about to replay it, because i enoyed it so 
 much! This game is one of a kind. You get to slow time down to kill people! yes it is a shooter 
 up kind of game with a great story line. This game is all about effects! you can turn on/off a 
 T. V., flush a tolet, wash your hands, and use paper towels! or you can just shoot a T. V. to turn 
 it off :) . Max payne also talks to you alot, as if he is reliving the experience and you play it. 
 You actually have to think and use skill more near the end of the game. The game is pretty short 
 if you get addicted, so i tried to just play about 30-60 min. a day so that i wouldn't finish the 
 game in 2 days like some of these people do. If you saw the screenshots then you probably already 
 know that this game have really good graphics! I would recommend buying this game whenever, i usually 
 try to wait till it gets down to the 30-40s before i buy a 1 player game. Still it is probably 
 worth $50, at least I feel like I got my money's worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gnoel809
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 18, 2004 3:29 pm PT
Review:  I just finished Max Payne 2 and loved every second of it. There are still a couple of nightmare 
 sequences (my least-favorite part of the first game) , but they are much better this time around. 
 The game is challenging without being impossible. 
  
  A friend told me she plays Max Payne but never uses bullet time. That's the signature feature of 
 the game, you may as well play any other shooter.
  
  I still enjoy the graphic novel style, I think it adds a lot of mood to the game. A lot of people 
 dissed the first game for the horrible writing, I personally think it was done purposely like that 
 to tip its hat to noir films and novels and was fine within the context of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neiltc13
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2004 4:13 am PT
Review:  If you finished Max Payne and felt like you were expecting more levels, then you'll get exactly 
 the same feeling here. The game is very short, and can be completed much quicker than other games 
 in the same genre. Max Payne 2 is however, technically and graphically impressive. This new version 
 of Max Payne sees the introduction of the 'Havoc. com' physics engine, which allows lots of objects 
 to be moved about. This is probably the best improvement to this game, as much of the rest just 
 feels like 'more of the same'. The same bullet time effects are there, but these don't have the 
 same 'wow' factor after three 'Matrix' films and a game.
  
  There are a variety of mods available for the game which allow you to change various aspects of 
 the game (eg adds more levels) . These add a bit of longevity to the PC version, and if you're considering 
 this game on any other platform, then forget it. The PC version is the only version worth buying.
 
  
  Highly recommended, perhaps better on rental than anything else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zsciaeount
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 29, 2003 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne was one of those games that just left me hungry for more. While some complained that 
 it was far too short, I thought it was just the right length to tell a compelling story and bring 
 it to one of those conclusions that lets you know the story will go on. Well, the next chapter 
 has finally arrived, and Remedys follow up, Max Payne 2: The Fall of Max Payne is nothing short 
 of a masterpiece.
  
  Its been a few years since Max Paynes life was ripped apart by junkies sent to liquidate his 
 wife and child. Exonerated by the handiwork of Alfred Woden, Max finds himself a free man. Max 
 has left the DEA to rejoin the NYPD, and he has left his house in the suburbs for a dingy apartment 
 in one of the worst parts of NYC. However, as P. T. Anderson would say, Max may be through with 
 the past, but the past aint through with him.
  
  Everything there was to like about the original Max Payne is back, with a whole slew of new gameplay 
 scenarios and plot twists packaged in a wrapper that has received a considerable facelift.
  
  The narrative of Max Payne 2 starts off very strong. Max awakens from the brink of the dead, 
 his body tattered and torn in a hospital bed. Theyre all dead, Max tells us, but who they 
 may be is something that will take the better part of 10 hours to find out. Needless to say, along 
 the way, there will be plenty of action, a whole slew of surprises, and most certainly an engaging 
 story told superbly through in-game engine shots, as well as the trademark graphic novel cutscenes. 
 All in all, its a total package that succeeds on all fronts.
  
  Graphically, Max Payne 2 is practically unrivaled. The textures are ultra-detailed, and the variety 
 is truly amazing. Mosaic floors, framed art, even the graffiti looks tremendous. The character 
 models are very well done, complete with faces modeled on actors, and this time, the faces are 
 expressive and synced with the audio. The animation is also very fluid, with the only flaw being 
 an odd twist in Maxs shoulders when you spin too fast on a shootdodge, so its a minor flaw youll 
 hardly ever see.
  
  The lighting effects were great in the last game, and theyre even better here, with excellent 
 colored lighting, refined light flares, and what appears to be a sort of volumetric lighting engine 
 that allows for features like light spilling in real time through the crack underneath a door. 
 The shadow effects are also remarkably done, with soft, smooth edges, and realistic deformation 
 over objects.
  
  One of the coolest things about the original game was the particle and damage effects. While the 
 particle effects are perhaps a bit better than the last game, it doesnt seem as if there are as 
 many different ways to mark up the territory, but its a small complaint.
  
  In the sound department, Max Payne 2 also delivers, albeit with one flaw. The voice acting is simply 
 superb better than other games with A-list actors. It also doesnt hurt that the dialogue is exceptionally 
 written. The sound effects are crisp, with a lot of variety, and now the sound slows down when 
 youre in bullet time, something it really didnt do in the original. The music, while understated, 
 fits the mood well, complementing the action when necessary. The only complaint that could be levied 
 against the sound is that multi-channel EAX audio is very poorly implemented, and I often found 
 the center speaker sound to frequently mute or drop out after restoring a game from a quicksave. 
 But, even without the fancy sound setting, the game still sounds great.
  
  As far as gameplay is concerned, Max Payne doesnt stray too far from the magic of the original, 
 but it does give the action a breath of fresh air. Bullet time has received a massive overhaul. 
 Unlike in the first game where you spent the majority of your time shootdodging, in Max Payne 2, 
 bullet time is most often used as a way to run and gun without diving. Furthermore, as more of 
 your shots find the mark, you get deeper into the zone, and time slows down for you even more. 
 This works quite well. Add this to the fact that shootdodging is now a free move, and youve 
 got a nicely refined bullet time system.
  
  Max Payne 2 also changes the narrative a little bit by forcing you to play through similar sections 
 as a secondary character, often representing parallel story arcs. This second character, Mona Sax, 
 controls the same as Max and handles the same weapons, but her storylines and environments are 
 rather unique.
  
  Max Payne 2 also brings cooperative play, as sometimes, youll have some Barneys along for the 
 ride. Their AI is not great, but at least they fight well and dont shoot you in the back of the 
 head.
  
  Perhaps the most astounding and useful feature of the game is the stunning physics engine in the 
 game. Nearly everything is interactive, and everything seems to have its own appropriate mass. 
 Objects tumble and move like they would in real life, and enemies bodies employ truly impressive 
 rag-doll physics. The effect is quite profound, and in addition to being great eye candy, the physics 
 also factor into the gameplay.
  
  One of the things that could be said about the original is that it was beautiful rendering of a 
 very drab environment. Sticking to the seedy underbelly of NYC, Max Payne could have fallen under 
 the above description as well, but the folks at Remedy cleverly avoided pure monotony by two things: 
 1) The rendered each room in exquisite detail and 2) they added a fun house of sorts that figures 
 in to the story. These fun house levels are incredibly stylized and very entertaining.
  
  Max Payne 2 utilizes a variable difficulty system that changes itself depending on how well you 
 play. The changes are subtle, but to be honest, the game is rather easy. The enemies are really 
 crafty, and a well-placed shot to the head can take you out quickly, but there is an overabundance 
 of painkillers to ensure that you can always stave off death.
  
  Tying all of these features together is an incredible amount of polish that pervades the game. 
 Theres a lot of little graphical effects, a whole slew of TV shows that play on various screens, 
 and a lot of little in-jokes. Also, this time, theres a lot more to the dream sequences. They 
 now feel more like levels than strange mazes, and the warping screen effect is truly disturbing.
 
  
  If you take time to enjoy the ride, Max Payne 2 will take you around 10 hours to finish, Rest assured: 
 this is a perfect length for the game, and you definitely get your moneys worth. In the end, the 
 game leaves you with a great ending, but also like the last game, it leaves you hungry for more. 
 Lets hope the wait for the next chapter in Max Paynes struggle isnt too long.
  
  In short, Max Payne 2 is a triumph of video game storytelling, and its success in all aspects of 
 what it sets out to accomplish identify it as a strong candidate for game of the year.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fabbuki
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 22, 2003 11:51 am PT
Review:  The only thing I can complain about is the shortness of the game... It ends so abruptly that it 
 makes you want more
  
  The graphics and sound are superb. The most impressive feature of the game is its havok physics. 
 All of the enemies die with ragdoll physics and every object in the game has its own mass. 
  
  The physics engine itself is worth it. You can chuck a grenade at a conveniently placed pile 
 of 10+ chairs or so, turn on bullet time, and watch all the chairs fly in a huge explosion!
  
  The Dead Man Walking feature will keep you coming back for more every time. If you can get 
 to a high enough time, eventually all the dead corpses' guns start to pile up in a massive pile 
 (because they all died near each other) . Then you can chuck a grenade in the pile, turn on bullet 
 time, and watch the guns fly!!! The physics engine is just awesome.
  
  The storyline is great, too. At first, you might not know what is going on, but if you play it 
 again you'll be able to connect things from the first game... MP2 is mostly about the "Fall" of 
 Max Payne. You'll find out what that means in the end! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thekdg
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2003 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Awesome and addictive, but a little short lived. I'm a semi-serious gamer and I went through this 
 game in under 16 hours. Thats not alot of game for your money. But, its fun. I love the way it 
 makes you feel like your playing a movie. Much like Mafia or Vietcong both favorites of mine. The 
 graphics and sound are great and are playable on older computers.
  Value isn't the only problem though. The camera angles can be a problem in tight places. Also it 
 should have bonus play at the end, instead of going through it again at a higher difficulty level. 
 Or why not let me replay different scene of the game again? I recommend this game, but I would 
 wait till the price comes down. I really don't think you'll need a game guide. There aren't any 
 missions that will stump you for long. The game has hints along the way. 
  The story is cool with a few twist along the way to keep it fresh. The dream play is cool and I 
 loved the fun house. In the end its a fun and engaging game. Play on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xiaor
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 27, 2003 6:52 am PT
Review:  Alright, well you all have probably read the thirteen year old's reviews of this being the best 
 thing since toys in a cerel box, and the guys that play to many video games so their just a little 
 to picky......
  This game does have a good story line, and I think is just a good as the first MP in this aspect. 
 The graphics in the game have been tweaked, and things look a little bit more alive due to the 
 extra lighting and rag doll effects of the dead bodies. The rag doll effect adds quite a value 
 of fun I found, as I could replay a certain area over and over just trying to see how many different 
 ways one guy could die. heeh (pretty sad, but fun)
  
  Overall I understand the comments about this game not being worth the money becuase of its shortness. 
 If you loved the first game, you diffently won't go wrong with the second. If you didn't like the 
 first one get the hell out of this review section.
  Also the addition of the modding tools may allow for ppl obsesd with MP to add length to the game 
 themselves.
  
  If you loved MP1 = buy
  If you thought MP1 was decent = wait for a price drop or used copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 26, 2003 4:47 pm PT
Review:  I have played and finished the first one and the first one really kept you into the game with the 
 awesome storyline. I have played through to chapter 3 of Part III... and i've only had the game 
 for less then a week. I must say Max Payne 2 is by far the best game dealing with storyline's and 
 gameplay. I have yet to have a game of any genre capture me like this one has. I have slight A. D. D. 
 and this game has made me do nothing but venture farther in it. I have also reached a state to 
 where i NEED to get up and walk away because i know if i dont i wont be able to walk again. For 
 anybody who likes a good action game if they dont get this then they have not lived their life. 
 
  
  
  Raven Darknight 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rubycon
Rating: 4.6
Date: Oct 25, 2003 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Quick review: The Graphics are nice - not amazing, but pretty decent. The sound is okay - what 
 you'd expect for this type of game. The game is way too short, and the gameplay is only cool if 
 you fancy yourself as a Neo wannabe, and you still think bullet-time is amazing. You have to use 
 bullet-time in order to win, and it gets old really quickly. The guns and weapons are uninspiring, 
 and nothing special. The shotguns appear to be loaded with rock-salt rather than real ammo for 
 all the use they are. Overall, it's an overrated game which is fun for a while, but you'll be bored 
 within a couple of hours. Bottom line is that this genre of shoot'em game is old and tired. We 
 still wait for half-life 2 in the hope that it will save the story-driven FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edysh
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 25, 2003 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Ok Here's a nice and concise review for those of you who want it. The graphics in MP2 are excellent. 
 The same old scenes and items such as dark alleyways and scaffolds get boring. I see why the game 
 is soo short b/c if it was any longer people wouldnt wat to finish the whole thing. It should be 
 selling for 35 dollars insead of 50 and for 50 it should include multiplayer. It's much like the 
 first game good graphics, goodstoryline) but way to short! The bullet time gets boring after a while 
 b/c u HAVE to use it to beat the game. It's like a cheat that you just don't want nemore b/c it 
 makes he game to easy. The Ai in this game don't compare to those in Soldier of Fortune or Halo. This 
 game gets its high scores from gamespot b/c of the graphics and storyline mostly. All i n all it's 
 to expensive for the gameplay you get. Wait till its on sale definately and run out and look at 
 some other great games. Freedomfighters, SOF2 Double HElix, Call of Duty etc. THere ya go have 
 fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanstrive
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 25, 2003 4:15 pm PT
Review:  This review will be short and sweet, as much has been said already. Ill stick to things that really 
 blew me away, and those that left me wanting a little more:
  
  First and foremost, the graphics are unbelievable. Not the most realistic shadows in the world 
 mind you, but the texture artists really outdid themselves. Although the architecture seems uninspired 
 at first, it sets the stage for whats to come. The environments keep getting more and more interesting, 
 right to the very end. Im using an ATI Radeon 9700 Pro with every bell and whistle turned on, 
 and was able to keep the resolution at 1280x1024. Well done Remedy.
  
  Remedy really cast the voices well for the other cast members. From the commando radio chatter 
 to the Mona the heartbreaker, every voice fit the scene perfectly.
  
  Speaking of audio, for those who have yet to experience a great 5.1 title, this should blow you 
 away. Though the game isnt free of sound glitches here and there, the EAX environmental effects 
 have to be heard to be believed. Also, the centre and rear channel effects dont stick out or feel 
 awkward; the sound is positioned very naturally.
  
  Unfortunately, as briefly mentioned before, the game isnt without its flaws, albeit minor. Technically 
 speaking, from time to time during the story-telling boards, Maxs voice would fade out to a very 
 low volume, and occasionally be inaudible. This also occurred during a few in-game missions, making 
 it difficult to hear Maxs self-dialog used to describe goals or thoughts to the player.
  
  Some of the levels felt too linear. This may be a result of the amazing architecture and texturing, 
 as sometimes I felt like opening a random door just to see what the room on the other side might 
 look like. Although I understand the reason to keep Max on the straight and narrow path for the 
 sake of the storyline, sometimes I felt like I was too confined.
  
  Overall, the game felt just right. I played through the game in about five days, a few hours at 
 a time per day. Some may consider this short, but as Gamespot said, its 100% quality the whole 
 way through. For those with a killer graphics card, this will surely be your showcase game for 
 quite some time. 
  
  Well, time to check out the new game modes that were unlocked after finishing the story! Go buy 
 this game!
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 20, 2003 9:28 am PT
Review:  If there was an award for most overrated game of the year, then Max Payne 2 would certainly be 
 my pick. It has some great moments, and it has some great qualities, but it has some glaring flaws 
 that nobody has mentioned yet. 
  
  If this game had more than 3 hours of actual action, then I might feel differently, but as it stands, 
 it's BADLY lacking in content. The game takes only a half day to play through despite having TONS 
 of filler, in the form of cutscene after cutscene after cutscene after cutscene. The action is 
 constantly being interrupted with cutscenes. In addition, there are a few dream sequences, and 
 a handful of other levels with no enemies that add little to the game other than downtime. I'm 
 not a big fan of short games, but I don't mind so much if the action is nonstop (Red Faction 2 
 is a perfect example) . However, the action in Max Payne 2 is not nonstop. It's choppy and unsatisfying, 
 at least until you get about halfway through the game.
  
  The game also forces you to reload your saved game hundreds and hundreds of times to get past all 
 of the "ambush" encounters (i. e. encounters where you walk into a room and spend a save game just 
 figuring out where all the enemies are) . This is why half of the gun fights remind me of the sniper 
 city level from "Jedi Knight 2: Jedi Outcast", where you have to reload the game at least once 
 for every enemy so that you can point your guns where he is the next time that you play that encounter. 
 The bad camera angles in this game mean that the enemies will always get two or three shots at 
 you before you can figure out where they are, regardless of whether you are in bullet time. This 
 can be a problem with all shooters, but it is at its worst in a 3rd-person shooter like Max Payne 
 2. The game is very unforgiving with health, so one unseen enemy can wear down 90% of your health 
 in 2 seconds. That's why you are constantly reloading your saved game. Bullet time should eliminate 
 the need for trial-and-error, but thats not what happens here.
  
  The AI for the game is abysmal. Enemies will yell "take cover" when you throw a grenade, and then 
 just stand there. Frequently, they will blow themselves to bits with grenades. They don't duck 
 back and forth behind cover, or run away when they are badly hurt. Compared to the other shooters 
 on the market like Halo, the AI in this game is vastly inferior. So, the game makes up for it with 
 constant surprises and ambushes. This simply gets downright annoying after a while. The original 
 Max Payne had this problem, but it is worse in this game. 
  
  The graphics have highs and lows. They suit the game genre perfectly, but they get very drab and 
 repetitive after a while. Every area is some run-down building or warehouse drenched in greys and 
 browns. The best part of the graphics effects is the way that the screen gets all distorted and 
 washed out when you initiate bullet time. By and large, the special effects for bullet time are 
 spectacular, which means that you will never get sick of it. The characters in the game look excellent, 
 especially Max and Mona.
  
  I have mixed feelings about bullet time 2.0. You get a lot more of it, and it slowly regenerates 
 without killing enemies, but it seems to have been powered down since the first game. The colors 
 drain from the screen when you initiate it, and I can't overemphasize what a cool effect that is. 
 You also reload almost instantly, and the animation for it is an awesome mini cutscene. The generous 
 supply makes for some great battles, since if you are killing bad guys, you can stay in bullet 
 time for 20 or 25 seconds without running out. On the other hand, it's harder to hit enemies in 
 bullet time this time around, since Max still moves at full speed. It's still hard to hit an enemy 
 while you are strafing when you click on bullet time. 
  
  There are a few nice levels in this game, but for the most part, they are uninspired and weak. 
 The exception is one bizarre, interesting area which gets worn out when you visit it three times. 
 For some strange reason, the developers went bonkers with scaffolds and wooden planks. There are 
 a lot of areas where you have to navigate a narrow walkway while shooing a guy above or below you, 
 and you end up falling to your death. Did I mention that you will be using the Quick Save, Quick 
 Reload keys a lot?
  
  Max Payne has the best implementation of rag doll physics to date. Rag doll physics combined with 
 bullet time makes for some killer sequences. As I stated previously, the game does have its moments. 
 Sometimes you get some really satisfying sequences, where you overcome tall odds and blow away 
 five guys and dive behind cover while you blow away the sixth. These are the parts that I was looking 
 forward to, and unfortunately, I didnt find enough of them. There are just too many Quick Save+Quick 
 Reload 15 times in a row sequences, and too many empty levels. 
  
  The game is short, but it does have at least some replayability, thanks to some dialog, secrets, 
 cheats, and other extra goodies that you will miss the first time around. I have been having fun 
 with some stuff that I found in the forums. "Dead Man Walking" is a lot of fun to play as well. 
 Still, this game isn't going to challenge "Serious Sam" or "Deus Ex" in the value rating any time 
 soon.
  
  I knew going in that it would be a short game, and that is why I only got it on sale. I expected 
 to have more fun while playing though, and that is why I am extremely disappointed in Max Payne 
 2. This game is way too short for full price, and there isn't enough great action to make up for 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axboi2001x
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 20, 2003 2:02 am PT
Review:  If you liked Max Payne 1, than there's no arguement that you'll love MP2. The graphics is extremely 
 sharp, and considering that I have a slow computer (1.4ghz + ti4200) I was really surprised that 
 I was able to run graphics at a pretty high setting. (as compared to Halo) . I do agree with some 
 other reviewers, that the cutscene gets a bit too much sometimes. It definitely kills the action 
 a lot of times. I feel that the bullet time doesn't work AS WELL as MP1. It seems like I'm getting 
 shot way more often than I should be. Also the biggest problem I have with this game is the audio 
 glitch as mentioned in gamespot's review. Sometimes the in game dialogue is really really soft, 
 and I have to rely on the subtitles. What's up with that? Overall though, MP2 is the second best 
 game out this year (behind Raven Shield) . Everyone should definitely check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgdsn
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 20, 2003 1:06 am PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS AMAZING! I loved the first max payne, and i love this one even more! i love how everything 
 has physics. i threw a grenade at this guys stomache, and he got hurt, then when it blew up it 
 launched his corpse into the guy behind him, knocking him down! thats sooo cool! the game looks 
 better than anything ive played since, and remarkably, i set my resolution and effects higher than 
 in any other game, and it runs SMOOTHER! that says a lot about the programming. they really stuck 
 with the old formula, but tweaked it and updated it to make a perfect game even better! BUY IT 
 NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigtpsychoboy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 19, 2003 9:25 pm PT
Review:  If i could describe this game in one word, I couldn't. this game is by far one of the best shooters 
 EVER! this game just blew me away. The graphics so much more improved from the original "Max Payne" 
 i just loved looking at the detail on the weapons and on the characters faces and even the levels 
 looked fantastic. The new and improved physics engine was awesome because you can now interact 
 with the levels. for example in one level there were 2 or 3 cleaners below me and i pushed off 
 three explosive barrels and shot them once they hit the ground and before the cleaners had time 
 to run away the were blown up into the air like rag dolls. speaking of rag dolls the "rag doll" 
 effect was so cool. I loved throwing grenades in to rooms full of people and watching them fly 
 around. The sound was also terrific. The guns sound so real it felt like i was really there. This 
 game is a story based game that does a really good job of starting where the first game left off. 
 Even if you haven't played the first max payne you should pick this one up. Last I would like to 
 add one drawback to this practically perfect game. The game is just to short but, well worth the 
 $50 price tag. In conclusion, this is game is a must for those who love shooters and/or are fans 
 of the Max Payne series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: connor
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 19, 2003 7:30 pm PT
Review:  There is no reason u shouldnt go out and pick this game up. This game is an excelent sequal to the 
 original and very impressive max payne. The story is one of the great things behind this game and 
 if u remember from the first the story was great, and the story only gets better in max 2.
  
  Graphics in this game are very sweet especially the shadows and the bullet time effects. Lighting 
 and particle effects are also supurb.
  
  The sound is great. The guns all sound very good and so does the enviorment effects like lighting 
 and thunder etc.
  
  If u were a fan of the first go and get this game it is a must. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xyre
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 19, 2003 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Exactly what you would expect from Max Payne. Every aspect of the game is perfect or almost perfect. 
 
  The gameplay features the well known bullet time and shootdodging, giving you that unique aspect 
 that you can't find in other shooters. The addition of the new Havok Physics engine adds even more 
 life to the game, when you hit a barrel, it will fall, then roll until it hits a wall or just stops 
 if its too heavy.
  The graphics are beautiful, enough said. The textures are crisp and realistic looking, and the 
 new particle effects (fire for example) are wonderful. The character modelling has also been improved 
 by a good bit.
  The sound features that enviroment rich ambient feeling to it. Perfect for a film noir game, where 
 you are on your toes every minute.
  For $50, I think you get all you could get, minus the length. But the sheer density of the story 
 more then makes up for it. If you haven't already, I would seriously recommend you go out and buy 
 this game now, yes, now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomcat353
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 19, 2003 6:03 am PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing in almost every aspect. The graphics are stellar, the surround sound 
 spectacular, and the gameplay action-packed. What more could a person ask for? 
  
  Let me start off by talking about the graphics. The graphics in this game are very detailed. This 
 new Havok engine Remedy is using really shows us that any object in the word is very interactive 
 and not just a static blob. 
  
  The gameplay in Max Payne 2 will really show you that about 4-8 Hours of gameplay can go a long 
 way. The first notable feature is BulletTime 2.0. This version of BulletTime allows a player to 
 slow everything but himself down. It's very useful and in fact, must be used to complete the game. 
 Also, this game is way more action packed then the first Max Payne. Everywhere you go you're bound 
 to see enough enemies to keep you busy. And believe me, the AI did indeed get smarter...
  
  When I first played this game, I expected it to have somewhat mediocre sound. However, I soon realized 
 that Max Payne 2 took FULL advantage of 5.1 Speaker Systems. When bullets zipped past you, you 
 heard them moving from speaker to speaker. When two characters talked, you heard their voices coming 
 from different speakers. That type of detail really impresses me.
  
  This is where we come to a bit of a downslide. The main reason I gave the value of this game a 
 7 is because this game is extremely short. And believe me, extremely short means about 4-8 Hours 
 in total length. I personally beat this game in 4 Hours 23 Minutes. You would probably think that 
 the value deserves a lower score since it's that short. But I must say, those 4 Hours and 23 Minutes 
 of my life were very fun and action-packed. And a person like me will even play a few more times 
 through just to enjoy those 4 Hours again. 
  
  To conclude, this game easily scores in the 9 range because of everything it did right. The value 
 is the only downfall to this game. If the game was just a bit longer, it would've easily scored 
 in the 9.5+ range. I recommend this game to anyone who likes a lot of action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PDzero
Rating: 6.3
Date: Oct 19, 2003 5:22 am PT
Review:  Just like the first Max Payne the second version sucks to me.
  When i saw the video Review Gerg was imprest about the way the game feels and looks.
  I was to, 
 but it still looked like it was much of the same, a run 'n gun shooter with no kind of tactics 
 at all.
  A friend of mine had the game on its PC and i must say it was cool at first.
  Learning your skills, shooting in slowmotion, it was al great.
  But after playing for 2 to 3 
 hours it just got boring as hell, always the same simple to defeat A. I. just by holding the trigger 
 button.
  It just got boring and after those hours, i just wanted to go back home and Play someting else. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gasgano
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 18, 2003 3:51 pm PT
Review:  You know I think we are starting to have a very bad trend with PC games lately - they are WAY too 
 short for the price.
  
  I had decided to wait till some reviews were posted for Max Payne 2 before I went out and spent 
 my money on it. Yeah this is the same company that brought us Max Payne 1 as well as the GTA games, 
 but you never know. But Thursday night reviews started to hit and the game was getting very high 
 marks. The only thing every reviewer knocked was how short the game was.
  
  Now Max Payne 1 was by no means a long game, it took maybe 10 hours or so to beat it start to finish. 
 But it left you full, there were a number of memorable boss battles, and quite a few different 
 areas to explore.
  
  However to call Max Payne 2 short is an understatement. I got it last night after work and beat 
 it this afternoon. I would say 4-6 hours of game play start to finish max. When I realized I was 
 coming to the end, I was like "That's IT??? I'm just getting into it! 
  
  I would say if Max Payne 1 were as long, it would of ended when you found the Don in his mansion 
 and the killer suits assassinate him. Max Payne 2 was in serious need of a 4th chapter and a few 
 more environments.
  
  Oh as baffling as it is, there are no real boss fights at all. There are a couple main characters 
 you waste, but they go down as fast as a normal goon.
  
  On the good side, the game looks and plays GREAT. They used the Havoc engine for this game, which 
 means pretty much anything not nailed down, can be moved. The trendy "rag doll" effect also is 
 used when you kill a bad guy. Instead of having a predawn death animation, they will fall and land 
 in a realistic way. The effect is really quite gruesome when you hit someone with a shotgun near 
 a ledge. :)
  
  Also Bullet Time has been improved and is much more useful. When you enter bullet time, the more 
 and more kills in a row you get drives you deeper "into the zone". It gets to the point were the 
 bad guys are moving in super slow mo while you are moving at normal speed.
  
  In the end, a really cool game, but hard to justify $49.99 for. You don't even have multiplayer, 
 which makes justifying the cost even harder. Either wait a few months for the price to go down, 
 or rent it for PS2 when it comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kh_nature
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 18, 2003 7:13 am PT
Review:  I never thought a game could be better than Max Payne 1.
  I wasn't interesting in Max Payne 2 even though I adored the first game.
  The reason for this 
 is we get more of the same old stuff.
  That is correct but let me explain you something:
  The story is ABSOLUTELY perfect, the graphics are drastically improved over the first game and 
 all the in-game players have different and detailed faces unlike the first game. The bullet time 
 2 is even better... far better actually.
  I rarely used bullet time in the first game (I used it twice) but in this game you will need to 
 use it far more often because there are many more groups of mobs hanging around and they hide-and-seek. 
 So the ennemy AI is very clever and so is your fellows' AI. 
  Now, lets talk about the levels. Some levels are so weird and funky that you will have to replay 
 them immediately after having done them. The developpers went wild at times and that is to our 
 benefits. You will go through levels that you have never seen before in a computer game, they are 
 totally odd. It is really worth playing through them.
  
  This game has PERSONNALITY.
  --------------------------------------------------
  BUY this game and you will NOT regret it, 
 I promess.
  -------------------------------------------------- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 6.3
Date: Oct 18, 2003 1:36 am PT
Review:  The game has some annoyances too which I think is important to point out.
  
  The #1 most annoying thing is the large number of cut-scenes. I enjoy cut-scenes normally as they 
 contribute to the atmosphere and story line. But this game is overdoing it, and you will find your 
 character to continuously snap out of interactive mode, often at crucial points ruining the tactical 
 advantage you built up, forcing an unrealistic outcome to a situation you would be able to handle 
 just fine if left alone.
  
  I like things going on in the game that supports the story, around the character, but it should 
 be tied into the game part, not into a separate movie part interrupting the gameplay. Half Life 
 2 seems to be getting this right, all the dialogs and character interaction happens while you still 
 are controlling the character (I have not tried the game yet naturally, but seen all the movies 
 from the game in action) .
  
  Annoyance #2 is the total linear gameplay. Sometimes you feel like you are standing on a rollerband, 
 just watching the things going on around you and occasionally shooting badguys that appear. You 
 are left with very few real choices, even when it comes to tactics as you are usually forced to 
 stick to a narrow path.
  
  What I liked the most about the game is the attention to detail. The dialogs you encounter are 
 really funny. However they stand in a sharp contrast to the dark atmosphere of the game where the 
 main character is having some serious mental problems. This is often overstated by dark melancholic 
 music and cut scenes of the main character's hallucinations or disturbing dreams. The overall mood 
 is a bit depressing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlankerDFMax
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 17, 2003 7:26 pm PT
Review:  I'd forgotten how much I liked the first MP, until I'd gotten a couple levels into this game. The 
 incredibly detailed environments and massive quantity of interactable or deformable objects just 
 boggles the mind. The graphics are even better, and the sound is great too. AAAAAAAHHHHH the gameplay -- yes, 
 MP II be havin' gamplay! The bad guys act like they mean to kill you, and are fairly skilled at 
 it if you're not careful. The story itself, the graphic novel presentation, and Max's monotone 
 voice overs are just as spot on as before. In fact the only thing I'm not sure about in MP II is 
 the new improved bullet time-it's OK but, I'm not sure I didn't like the original better. Well, 
 what can I say, this isn't a very good review because I so biased. Now quit readin this stuff, 
 and go get a copy for yourself you lagger! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmurda
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 17, 2003 5:03 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about Max Payne 2 that hasn't already been said about Pulp fiction, 
  The Matrix, and Max Payne? This game is a perfect sequel to it's predcessor, everything you would 
 expect from a crime noir flick, and much much more. The only gripe that would be even remotely 
 troublesome is the length of the game itself, but also the way that the game ends in my opinion.
 
  
  Visuals
  
  The visuals are gorgeous, the first sequences you see are very beautifully done. It's like walking 
 through a desert after being denied water for 2 days, blurry, confusing, and hallucination inducing. 
 The character models in Max Payne are well done, max himself looks like a stone cold bastard. Mona 
 Sax looks like the fabled hot assassin bad ass woman character you expect her to be. The glare 
 and smoke effects are not to be forgotten, but who could forget the wonderful lighting in the game. 
 The crackle of lightning that comes through the window in the hospital is not to be forgotten. 
 
  
  The fire effects have improved drastically this time around, it flows and flickers looking impressive 
 as hellfire. Even tiny things like how the bullets can be seen even if the game isn't in bullet 
 time, and how if you look at a can of paint you can clearly see the type it is. The way the bullets 
 spill realistically out of the rifle, and pitter patter to the floor. How Max's jacket sways with 
 every movement he makes. Even the reloading in bullet time effect is wonderful. Although these 
 aren't big deals, it is a nice attention to detail that most games lack.
  
  Sound
  
  Gone are the old sounds from the last game, such as "Wack em! AHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!!!!" Things 
 aren't so over the top when it comes to enemies dying, or coming to put a bullet in Max's head. 
 The characters now sound at bit more realistic, if you try to run and get behind something after 
 they shoot at you. They scream out "Coward!" or "I'm going to find you!". They even scream when 
 you throw grenades at them, or when they do the exact opposite. The sound of the gunfire in this 
 game is wonderful, the Desert Eagle sounds distinct from the 9mm pistol. Ak-47 is distinct from 
 the M-16, the shotgun even roars with a thunderous boom when it goes off.
  
  Probably to the most distinct sounds in the game, are from the television shows that are scattered 
 randomly through the game. Address Unknown had to be my favorite in the game, it was crisp and 
 clear and chalk full of insanity. Yet let's not forget the random NPC characters in the game, sitting 
 there listening to their comments and conversations will have you stopping and waiting before pumping 
 a bullet in a baddie. Apparently Max is quite the ladies man, you'll just have to wait and see 
 on that one.
  
  Now the sound is not perfect, maybe they will correct it with a patch. Sometimes it goes in and 
 out, sometimes you can't even hear what Max Payne himself is saying. This is a small problem, compared 
 to the vast sound quality of the game.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Ever felt like you were playing the same game, but someone put the game into overdrive and you 
 died alot? That's the new system of Max Payne 2, the enemies this time around are even Quicker 
 on the draw then in Max Payne 1. Sometimes they open doors and know exactly where you are in the 
 room, you can even shootdodge to try to get away and still end up dead. Hell, you can even kick 
 in bullet time this time around and still get mowed down. This made the game feel a lot different 
 to me, the difficulty on the Detective level itself was high. 
  
  This doesn't ruin the gameplay experience at all, it just makes the game that much better. If you 
 don't overuse the "Bullet time 2.0", you can have some pretty strategic fights with the bad guys 
 which is tons of fun. As Max, you can still dive from side to side, or forward/backward to kill 
 your enemies. This time you have the option of staying down and shooting until your bullets run 
 out. Although this is a wonderful thing, I wouldn't suggest staying on the ground for long. The 
 enemies in this game are crackshots, even if they are damn near across a football field from you.
 
  
  Controls
  
  Ahh, this feels just like coming home to see that nothing has changed. Well... something has changed, 
 and it's probably just going to need to be corrected by going to the options menu. The game is 
 still as easily accessible as it always has been, except now the 1 key is used to bring up your 
 secondary attacks. Like your Melee, grenades, and molotovs. While it's a nice addition, the melee 
 attack isn't really that useful in the game. I'm sure if the characters in the game, weren't so 
 Quick Draw Mcgraw on you. There would have probably been a better use of it, so mainly don't go 
 expecting to Kung Fu Mod 3.0 anyone.
  
  Max moves exactly like he did 10 years ago, he can roll and still jump exactly the same way. He 
 is in no way stiff, so there should be no complaints of getting killed cause he didn't move properly. 
 Having him move so well is a glory, it should get you out of a lot of troublesome fire fights, 
 and save you from plunging to your doom in platform heaven. It's still easy to aim, and plug away 
 at your opponents so there shouldn't be any gripe here either.
  
  Overall
  
  All in all, this is a great game in all respects. The only problem I really had myself is the way 
 it ended. Not even the length of the game itself, just the way the game actually ended. Either 
 way though, Max Payne 2 is like bullets cackling out of a gun like a devil dancing in hellfire. 
 My bullet count was a permanent 666. Yet I loved every moment of it, and wouldn't change it for 
 the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truelove79
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 17, 2003 12:06 pm PT
Review:  i'm not going to repeat everyone else so i only have a few points. this one is leaps and bounds 
 better than the first (and the first kicked a** so what does that tell you) . the graphics are amazing. 
 i had to go out and buy a new power supply just to run the game at full performance with my GeForce 
 FX 5900 (my old supply was girly and weak) . so that right there tells you this game kicks the crap 
 outta most games out there now visually. i gave it a low value rating just due to it being so short. 
 i've had it for 3 days now and haven't beat it yet, but i have a wife that needs my time too. :) 
 anyway, if you think you're a gamer and you don't buy this game, you're not a gamer. if you buy 
 it and don't like it, you're not a gamer or you're some sort of plant creature from another planet. 
 please rockstar and remedy, make the third one longer, please!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gandalflotrtt
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 16, 2003 8:31 pm PT
Review:  The game is simply amazing. The new bullet time 2.0 is a great improvement to the game. The game 
 itself although short is extremely fun, and at times funny. Sometimes I? ll just sit there listening 
 to the TV or interacting with the people around me, for example in the Police station there are 
 A LOT of side conversations you can have, probably the coolest is in the Rec room. You can turn 
 off the TV and the guys watching it complain to you and turn it back on. You can tamper with the 
 air conditioner (its out of order) and break it even more and they will comment on that. They will 
 say funny things about the coffee machine and such... and what I found really interesting was, 
 I turn on the coffee machine and went away, then returned a couple minutes later. It was shut off 
 and the cops there were saying how I made such a good brew, Very funny.
  The graphics are amazing, I get an odd sort of slow down (but I don? t have a high end system so 
 oh well) , but the slowdown acts as lag its kinda odd. But easily fixed (I turned on high detail 
 ragdoll so that? s what slowed it down =\ )
  This game will be Amazing once mods come out for it, it will have a high replay value just like 
 the first one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poblasai
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 16, 2003 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Every aspect of this game is polished beyond belief. The graphics are some of the best I've seen 
 this year (unreleased games excluded e. g. Doom III) . The sound is spot on. The physics work admirably. 
 The story is memorable. And the gameplay is bar none the best that action games have to offer. 
 I play almost nothing but 1st and 3rd person shooters and I can say without a doubt this game contains 
 some of the most addictively intense and immensely fun moments I've ever experienced in a shooter. 
 
  
  You could complain about the length of the game, and it is fairly short. However, I personally 
 would rather have a short game packed to the brim with quality gaming than a long game that just 
 extends the game with useless filler as too many games often do.
  
  It's said that Max Payne 1 drew heavily on the Matrix movie for it's bullet time feature, in the 
 sequel they do so even more so. In the Matrix Neo's perception of time is dramaticly slowed down 
 and his body sped up granting him his distinct advantage. This is the essence of "Bullet Time 2.0," 
 in that Max, as he lays more enemies to waste, becomes faster and faster creating the effect that 
 everything around slows down. The difference in Max Payne 1 bullet time and Max Payne 2 bullet 
 time is that in 1 Max's conscious is sped up making everything move in slo-mo, where in 2 Max's 
 conscious and body speed up to make everything BUT Max go into slo-mo. Making Max Payne 2's bullet 
 time almost identical to Neo's abilities in the Matrix. Not that is a bad thing in any way. I provides 
 for some the best gaming we'll probably see this year.
  
  Unless you're a gamer who likes strategy and heavily thought out gameplay, and absolutely hates 
 twitch gaming... BUY THIS GAME. You'll love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asmox
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 16, 2003 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, I only have one real complaint about this game (well, two) .. the campaign is waaaay short 
 - I finished the game in about 7-8 hours.. and way too easy, even on Hard-Boiled (haven't tried 
 Dead on Arrival yet) . I mean, you can beat the entire game using only shootdodging, and never have 
 to use bullet time once :O
  
  As for the graphics, they aren't overly amazing. With the exception of the Funhouse (which is very 
 cool, btw) , most of the environments are pretty bland and alike. The character animations are nice, 
 though.. as are things like bullet impacts on various surfaces and other particle effects - especially 
 in slowmo. Overall, pretty decent graphics.
  
  Everything else is very well done though, great story (the cut scene strips are neat) .. very nice 
 voice acting and sound quality. The gameplay is very simple and easy to get used to, no exhaustingly 
 long learning curves and whatnot.
  
  Bottomline - it's no HL2, but still a damn good game.. hehe. :O 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codepunk
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2003 11:57 am PT
Review:  Ok, this is the very first review I have ever submitted for a game which should already tell you 
 something. Put simply, Max Payne 2 just raised the bar for all games. Here's a few standouts:
 
  
  * Physics: Waiting for HL2? Get this game. The physics (Havok engine) are unbelievable and Remedy 
 takes advantage of it. For the first 1/2 hour of playing, I did nothing but knock stuff around 
 the room. One level in particular was designed to showcase the physics and, even though there was 
 nothing to shoot, was one of the best levels I have ever played in a game.
  
  * Graphics: When I first saw the screenshots, I immediately thought they were doctored to make 
 it look more real. Guess what, they're not. This game really does look that good. The faces are 
 amazing looking, the decal system is top notch (for things such as blood, wall marks when you bash 
 your gun into the wall, bullet holes) .
  
  * Story and interactivity: If it's there, you can manipulate it. I've probably taken over 10 showers 
 in the game, flushed 50 toilets, watched TV quite a few times, etc... The storyline itself is quite 
 engaging. It's like watching a good movie but the best part is that you get to control it. Bad 
 thing is, when you have to quit the game and go to bed, it's like giving yourself a cliff hanger. 
 I want to know what happens. Why do we have to sleep?
  
  In summary, this is a game that will rank in the top lists. You should have it. My current all 
 time favorite is Mafia, but this may well beat it. We'll have to wait and see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkullLeader00
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 16, 2003 9:38 am PT
Review:  Is it perfect? No ... but I can't find another game close to this! How do I begin ...
  1) The graphics will blow you away. Literally. You enter the room and you are so mind blown about 
 the environment you fail to see the 4 guys shooting at you. The cut scenes are worth it, and the 
 detail in every aspect to the game is quit amazing.
  2) The Havoc engine is great. Forget about bullet time for a second, the mere fact that they have 
 worked so hard in developing an engine where you have the ability to move boxes, break them, destroy 
 tables, etc. sounds so simple yet hasn't been done till now.
  3) The sound is great. Apart from the typical guns and bombs ... the vioces and acting is great. 
 Though many people don't care about that ... i think it adds to the game so much!
  4) Bullet time is amazing. Plain and simple. The only one thing I am a little dissapointed is that 
 bullet time is faster then in Max 1. Which brings me to my end point. If that is the only thing 
 about the game I am dissapointed well then ...
  
  This game is worth every penny folks ... every penny! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shotinthedark99
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 16, 2003 9:28 am PT
Review:  I had been waiting for Max Payne 2 since the day I completed the first Max Payne. I had waited 
 for the first Max Payne since I got my hands on a PCGamer with Max on the cover. It has yet again 
 exceded my highest expectations in form of gameplay and graphics, with a few flaws, but none that 
 detract from it, nor will keep me from playing it over and over again, like the last one. By the 
 way, I played through and beat the game the day it hit the shelves, with 12 minutes to spare; so 
 you might see a spoiler or two here.
  
  The Physics are as realistic as ever as far as bullets go, the added effect of interactivity in 
 the environment definately sweetened the pot for me aesthetically, and even tactically. A favorite 
 of mine is to wait behind a door for someone to come running at, then when I hear their footsteps 
 (because the sound is so well done that you actually can tell when they're right up on you) , kick 
 the door in their faces and fill them with bullets as they tumble backwards. The tumbling is repetitive, 
 but, the ragdoll effects more than balance that out of the equation. 
  
  One problem though, mirror technology has been available since Vampire: the Masquerade: Redemption, 
 yet mirrors do not mirror. They reflect more light more sharply, but not objects in the environment, 
 like Max. Call me vain if you want, but I wanna see myself in the mirror.
  
  One thing, probably the only thing other than graphical overhaul, that is different than the first 
 game, in Max Payne 2, it seems to me that it's easier to be killed by spread fire. Naturally when 
 you're in a room with 5 baddies and they've got Uzis, your odds are against you, but, in the last 
 game, a good shootdodge would keep you going unless you really screwed up. And you'd know when 
 that happened. In this one, you can pull the same move, and on one try, die, the next, take no 
 damage and kill them. Realistic actually, come to think of it. 
  
  SPOILER ALERT.
  
  The only problem I had with the game was that Remedy promised characters that survive more. Only, 
 every character died save Max. Including the focus of the game; Mona. Which, kinda felt like I 
 played the game in vain. It was fun as hell, but to no greater cause. 
  
  Bottom line, literally; buy it, play it, love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flamingboard
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2003 3:21 am PT
Review:  What can i say. this game kicks a**. i had it pre-ordered at best buy and i picked it up today. 
 when i got back to my dorm around 7 pm i started playing it and i didn't stop till about 5 minutes 
 ago when i beat the game. i only took one break to go to the bathroom. the story sucks you in and 
 the gameplay pushes you to get to the next chapter. i think this game is even better than the first 
 one. the graphics are incredible and they really add to the gameplay because seeing bodies flop 
 around is awesome. i hope the third is even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: westryder907
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 16, 2003 2:30 am PT
Review:  This game is the same as the original with a pretty make over. The gameplay isn't any different 
 than the first. There are people you can recruit. Somewhat like Freedom Fighters. Max is a little 
 bit more like Dirty Harry in this version. Over all I would recommend it to all Max Payne and Rockstar 
 fans.
  The graphics however are nothing but stunning. I found myself mesmorized by the first level and 
 couldn't help but walk around with jaw dropped. Pretty much everything in the game is interactive 
 and fun to just look at. I'm running a 1.7 athlon with 512 Ram and 64 MB graphics processor. I 
 shot everything to high and the game runs smooth. Occasional glitches, but they don't effect the 
 game at all. Continuing to play the game and so far I like it a lot.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpsaply
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2003 9:06 pm PT
Review:  If there was a third person shooter out there that did it right, it would be Max Payne 2. This 
 is by far the best shooter I have played yet. The graphics alone just blew me away! So much detail 
 in the game, it just makes you want to stare at some of the features, such as the Fun House. Of 
 course you dont want to sit there and admire the gorgeous graphics while getting shot at. 
  Another feature that I was impressed with was the rag-doll effects. I love throwing a grenade into 
 a group of enemies and watch them fly across the room like a rag doll. There is no clipping issues 
 either. I remember in the first Max Payne I sometimes would see the enemy that I shot either floating 
 or laying half way in and out of a wall or door. Not in this sequel. If the enemy lands on an object, 
 such as a paint can or box they are slumped over and not laying flat on it.
  The environment is pretty cool. You can knock chairs or stacks of boxes down. You also could kick 
 a paint can off a balcony (or shoot it off just for fun) . Just about anything that is in the room 
 you can knock over or shoot. 
  Now, what about Bullet Time? All I have to say is the new and improved bullet time is AWSOME. 
 I am not even going to describe it for you. You will have to buy this game and see it for yourself. 
 And for you parents out there, this is not a game for your kids. Its rated M for Mature
  This game is worth the asking price of $50. It deserves a 10 out of 10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adlerson
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2003 2:55 pm PT
Review:  I don't often give a perfect score, in fact, I don't think I ever have, but this, my friends, is 
 a perfect game.
  Every nitty gritty noir-ness of the first game is there, and more. I've played for about 3 hours 
 now, and I'm just getting more and more drawn in to it. The graphics are spectacular, even on a 
 computer just a little more powerful then what the average is today. Everything in the setting 
 set to max and it runs smooths as a baby's bottom. Sound is awesome, so are the special effects.
 
  And the best of all, the story. I haven't gotten too far in to it yet, but.. 
  All I can say is I love it, and this is /the/ best action game I've ever played.
  
  Cheers 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
