-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: MDK
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/mdk/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  6, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 8.9, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 524 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Playmates
Developer: Shiny
Genre: Sci-Fi Shooter
Date:     Apr 30, 1997 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
MDK is frequently fun, sometimes frustrating, full of surprises, and visually stunning. 

 The marketing folks must not have understood MDK's storyline because neither the ads touting "It 
 thinks, therefore it kills" nor the story about monstrous mining machines have anything to do with 
 this game. So what. MDK is still a visually exciting, mentally challenging shooter with a humorous 
 and twisted viewpoint.  

 You play Kurt, an androgynous, leather-armor clad, leaping, action figure with a machine gun hermetically 
 sealed to his wrist. The third-person perspective shows the action from above and behind, a la 
 Tomb Raider, with the action taking place in about fifty-five different settings - mostly large, 
 wide-open locations which make a refreshing change from the confining corridors of Duke, Doom, 
 Quake, and the rest. The variety of the wild 3D graphics and colors create a continual sense of 
 amazement and wonder. You'll encounter locations from the ethereal or surreal to the gritty or 
 pastel, with reflective surfaces, translucent walls, and gorgeous backdrops. The bad guys are all 
 true 3D, and most have a similar, metallic look, but their actions and tactics vary, giving you 
 plenty of diversity.  

 The game mechanics deviate greatly from standard shooter fare, and MDK sports many innovative features. 
 Kurt has a sniper mode that allows for very accurate aiming of weapons - with the exception of 
 mortars, which have a high arc and take some practice. As you zoom in for a close-up, the image 
 does not become a mass of blocky pixels. Surprisingly, it becomes more detailed. You get close-up 
 views of your enemies taunting you or toking on a stogie. Using the built-in "bullet-cam," you 
 can follow the trajectory of each shot and see a close-up of its effectiveness.  

 Unlike other shooters, you will not gradually accumulate a cache of super-duper bazookas and shrink 
 rays. Typically you'll locate a weapon and use it up in whatever situation you face at the time. 
 The weapons can be downright goofy: The World's Most Interesting Bomb stupefies and transfixes 
 any enemy within sight; The Tornado which acts like a food processor run amok; and The Thumper 
 is a giant hammer that pummels anything within range. You can also call in a bomber strike flown 
 by your dog.   

 Moving from setting to setting usually means a redundant sprint down long winding corridors. But 
 in later levels it becomes a bobsled run and finally a snowboard slalom - accompanied by James 
 Bond-style music. Kurt has a built-in ribbon parachute that you open to ease long falls or to catch 
 updrafts. On some levels the only means of movement is leaping from one elevated platform to another, 
 using your deployed chute and dodging pulsating beams or blue rocket blasts. During your travels, 
 you will encounter an unusual assortment of deadly devices including a huge pendulum, boulder-tossing 
 baddies, and huge, rolling, metal balls.  

 While blasting anything that moves is a dominant feature (on some levels you'll never stop pressing 
 the strafe key while squeezing the joystick trigger) , there are many brain problems to solve, from 
 the simple, such as lobbing mortars through narrow openings, to the sublime, operating the dolphin 
 dispenser in the final episode, feeding the cetaceans to the big boss to distract him so you can 
 pick up the World's Smallest Nuclear Bombs.   

 In the midst of all this frivolity and mayhem, there are some gnawing problems. The minuscule manual 
 devotes all of two CD-sized pages to controls and strategy with no mention of weapons. A tablet-sized 
 "diary" of the crazed scientist who supplies you with weapons by parachuting them in from his space 
 station, serves to only set up the inane back story. The joystick "hat" is disabled, meaning a 
 third hand would come in handy for all the controls. You can't look up and shoot - all non-sniper 
 aiming and firing is along a horizontal plane. The game offers multiple difficulty settings, but 
 these have minimal differences, and despite all the work to create a wide range of settings, MDK 
 is too short. Hard-core gamers can probably finish it in a couple of sittings. Plus there's no 
 rhyme or reason to the levels. It looks like anyone with an idea for a cool level simply did his 
 own thing then someone mashed these ideas together.  

 As for the lack of any multiplayer options, expect to see some sort of networked MDK within three 
 to six months. Depending on its popularity, Shiny will either come out with a huge arena for a 
 deathmatch or a more elaborate multiple level approach (or if the game bombs, no multiplayer anything) . 

 MDK is frequently fun, sometimes frustrating, full of surprises, and visually stunning. It's not 
 going to inspire the next revolution in action gaming, but it is an enjoyable diversion.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: RodneyRam
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Mdk is a good game but has its flaws
  
  Good Dog with six legs that fly a plane.
  A few interesting weapons.
  Weird enemies Whatever moves shoot it.
  
  The Bad
  Enemies 
 sometimes seems never ending.
  Can be annoying sometimes.
  
  If you like games where you just run around and shoot everything buy it. If you are looking for 
 more than that give it a pass. This game can be fun but never ending enemies will make it frustrating.
 
  
  Overall give a try you may not be disappointed.
  
  Give it a try give it a try give it a try give it a try give it a try give it a try give it a try 
 give it a try give it a try give it a try give it a 
 
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valeria_Vitrix
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  There are few words which can amply describe the sheer 'old-school' excellence of MDK. Upon first 
 glance it appears an outdated, avaunt-guard oddball from the nineties. However, that would be all 
 too dismissive of one of the greatest PC games ever made whilst they were still in their relative 
 infancy.
  
  I will not lie, the die-hard loyalty shown by the majority of MDK's fans stems from sentimentality 
 rather than critique. Yet this does not, in any way, subtract from the genuine excellence of the 
 game. What was great over a decade ago is still great today, and despite the passage of time and 
 the advancement of gaming as a whole, this revolutionary game has lost none of its charm or original 
 brilliance.
  
  Saving the world from obnoxious aliens using chain guns, sniping and various assortments of atomic 
 and other less-than-sane weaponry; the game takes an overworked genre, gives it an original flair, 
 and propels it to new levels of brilliance.
  
  Donning the eponymous black coil suit (the greatest outfit ever?) and free-falling into a dystopian 
 world to do battle with evil incarnate packs in all the frustration, craziness, and the thrills 
 conceivable. 
  
  Murder Death Kill just never gets old!
  
  Utter Classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razvan_ol
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  So it's 2007, and I'm writing a review on a game from 1997.
  I'll be brief cause probably no one will play this game again.
  
  In all my years of gaming 
 I have never found a game more fun than MDK.
  I have probably played it 30 times, even last month after finishing Crysis, LOL.
  The feel of 
 it, the graphic art, the jokes, the story (which you can just imagine by yourself) ... they all make 
 it a classic.
  
  The game runs on P1, 16mb ram system (maybe less) which I find hilarious now ....
  
  I don't 
 care what other people might say, Duke Nukem 3D, Half LIfe, MDK, C&C Tiberian Sun, C&C Red Alert 
 and Age of Empires: Age of kings are the greatest games ever made.
  In my opinion.... nothing comes close to them, and probably never will ;) .
  
  If you ever have 
 the chance.... just play it :) . It may hurt your eyes for a couple of minutes to get used to the 
 resolution, but after than you will be pleased until the end. It's pure old school. Shoot and have 
 fun. Ahh yeah... and kill aliens !!!!
  Can you ask for more ? Seriously... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebbderelict
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 8, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  MDK was the first game I purchased which really utilized my Pentium PC. I was hooked from the beginning.
 
  
  The Look: The look of the game is slick and stylish. I've never seen a character model as realistic 
 as our hero Kurt before. The landscapes were flowing, organic, and edgy, with big rooms inside, 
 and a nice sense of space outside. The Game play: Super fun. At the start of each level you're 
 hurtling towards Earth, having to avoid gun fire and missiles coming up at you, (giving me a sense 
 of Deja Vu when playing R&amp; C: Up Your Arsenal) . Once you hit the ground though, it's a 3rd person 
 shooter with exciting run and gun action. The controls are tight and easy to manage. The enemies 
 tease you, making it even more fun to take them out. The game also allows you to shoot enemies 
 up piece by piece; Take out a leg or an arm before they die, which is something I had never seen 
 before. Also new to me was the ability to blow off an enemies head when you switch to sniper mode, 
 which MDK allows you to do on the fly. Of course, you don't have to spend all your time running; 
 You're also equipped with a reusable Ribbon Parachute allowing you to glide from high platforms 
 at any time. At the end of each section is a big boss, each with a unique way of taking them out. 
 Although you're doing a lot of shooting, the only thing that may hold some people back is that 
 you're never really in the middle of a swarm of enemies. For the most part, the numbers that you 
 deal with at one time is fairly mild.
  
  The Weapons: Although not in abundance, that ones you have are very fun. You're standard weapon 
 is the Chain Gun which can get the job done. Power ups include the super chain gun, grenades, tornado's, 
 decoys (hmmm, also remnant in R&amp; C) , and the occasional World's Smallest Nuclear Explosion and 
 even less available World's Most Interesting Bomb . To add to the roster of firepower you get various 
 Sniper Weapons as well. The sniper mode (which you switch to by attaching your gun to your face 
 - makes more sense when you play the game) also includes a gun cam in the corner so you can watch 
 where you're bullets and bombs are going. The Music: Fantastic. Just as stylish as the rest of 
 the game, with great ambiance and a killer soundtrack.
  
  To sum up, MDK is fun, fast, exciting, and even a little funny. A definite play for any action 
 fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 3, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  MDK is one of its kind action game; not even its sequel MDK 2 could replicate the spirit of this 
 funny action game. I mean pocket size Nuke? Villains that humously curse you till they die? The 
 top boss that love eating seals? Come on, fewer games come up with weirder enemies in a package 
 of such fast pace action. The whole game is so wonderfully colourful that even with today's technology 
 you don't get to see such vivid use of colours. Its very artistic, arcade like, addictive and light 
 hearted. Our hero Kurt Hectic is a janitor; who goes out armed and dressed with lethal weapons 
 to save the world. The game was designed for fighting battles, solving puzzles and driving fast 
 paced land surf board zig zagging races. Its a combination of all fun things that makes a video 
 game a video game. The whole game is passionately well-designed which Bioware failed to replicate 
 in MDK2 (which is set in a rather dark environment, though still somewhat humorous) . Mind you, 
 you might find the game puzzles difficult at times; but to me that's the fun part of it.
  I strongly recommend this game to all action/adventure game lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angrycobra
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 14, 2006 10:19 pm PT
Review:  MDK is one of those games that you really dont know what to expect when you first buy it. But 
 as soon as you install it and see the opening scene, you know you are in for something special. 
 With graphics that still hold up to this day, and a story line that is crazy and fun all at the 
 same time, MDK gives some of the most satisfying game play around.
  
  You will find yourself saving your progress again and again throughout the game. Some sections 
 will take several times to play before you are able to master them and advance to the next section. 
 The sniper vision was the first of its kind and really gives the game a great punch. Being able 
 to see your enemy from miles away and nail them right between the eyes is very gratifying.
  
  Additional levels through an expansion pack would have been nice, but this was before the days 
 of extra levels being added by programmers for almost every game that is out there. 
  
  Some of the levels are a bit confusing and can be frustrating because if you dont them exactly 
 right you will not level up. But overall this game is a classic and it rocks. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 16, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Man back then, those were the days, I played this game when I was 7 years old and I can't leave 
 this review behind because this game got me into pc gaming. It was really hard game, but I loved 
 it. The graphics were amazing, the third-person shooter was awesome everything. Not to mention 
 this game is the very first game I played that you can shoot someone in the head, which is a headshot, 
 I love that. In this game there is a variety of equipment and weapons like the chaingun, grenade, 
 etc. You can also ride a helicoptor in this game and drop bombs on the aliens (only in 2 lvls though) . 
 Some of the boss fights are easy though but it's great fun. This game may have 6 levels but man 
 those levels are HARD. This game can get you puzzled and frustrated sometimes. 
  
  This game does have a repeative story though, on level 1 you have to save the city from the minecrawler 
 (which is a huge machine that destroys everything) in level 2, same thing, lvl 3 and lvl 4... same 
 thing. Although I won't tell you what lvl 5 and 6 are about.... I'm too lazy of a typer to type.
 
  
  I just played this game yesterday and beat it less than 3 hours. This game is a instant classic 
 to third-person gaming. Too bad no one doesn't really no about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wralthor
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 18, 2005 5:51 am PT
Review:  (yes, this is a very late review of a very old game, and I guess no on will ever read this.. whatever 
 ^^)
  This was one of my first games ever... I remember it, just like it was yesterday, when I bought 
 this game with my dad.
  
  I played through the whole game in about a day, couldn't stop playing it... at that time it was 
 the greatest game I've ever played.
  The thing I liked the most about this game was the ABSOLOUTELY PERFECT gameplay! I couldn't see 
 anything wrong with it, and when I play the game today I still can't see anything that's wrong 
 with it!
  Another good thing about this game is the comedy, today it can still make me laugh.
  
  Now 
 for the short summary:
  Gameplay: ber! perfect!
  Graphics: It was REALLY GOOD when it had just been released, and still.. I can't see anything wrong 
 with the graphics.
  Sound: I found the alien noices fun as hell :D
  Value: underrestimated game! This game has more value than many other new 3rd person shooter games... Like 
 Giants.
  
  Go grab this game... somewhere, I doubt it's possible to buy it anymore :p
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoldoAsesino
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 10, 2005 1:47 am PT
Review:  Wow. This game left me with no words to utter, so I don't know where to start from. Ok, let's just 
 say that this game is one of the most visually impressive games Ive ever play (give me a break, 
 I still got a Pentium-100!!!) , and its also one of the more interesting game experiences I've 
 ever had.
  In MDK, you play the role of Kurt Hectic, some androgenic kind of super-hero, whose mission is 
 to rescue a handful of cities from the grasp of the usual bad guys who want to destroy them. This 
 game is a genre-cross between a third-person-shooter and a platform arcade from the eighties. Yes, 
 Lara Croft meets Super Mario! As a matter of fact, you got a bunch of power-ups and bonuses that 
 helps you in your quest, restoring your health or giving you special items. You also got an ample 
 selection of weapons and grenades including a very well designed sniper mode.
  One of the best issues of the game is that it combines perfectly brainteaser puzzles with reckless 
 action. Thanks to it, MDK never gets boring or repetitive, because you dont have always to kill 
 all the critters on the screen in order to beat it. The puzzles vary from climbing up the usual 
 annoying set of floating platforms, to finding a disguise in order to sneak past a bunch of evil-looking 
 (and very powerful) robot guards.
  Good absurd humour is another one of the best issues of MDK, which is something usual to every 
 Shiny Entertainment's release since Earthworm Jim. For example, one of the power-ups you may encounter 
 on your missions is the Worlds Smallest Nuclear Explosion. When deployed, this will detonate an 
 hobbit-size atomic bomb (with a very tiny mushroom cloud and fallout included) that is very useful 
 to unlock doors. The game is full of this kind of jokes, and that helps very much in making it 
 that funny.
  But the very, very best issue of MDK, by far, are the graphics. THEY ARE OUTSTANDING!!! The surrealistic 
 landscapes of the levels are a gorgeous feast to the eyes. Take, for example, the last arena screens 
 from Level 2, the best of them in my opinion. The whole place is made of mirrors which reflect 
 some alien buildings that stand on the horizon; and when I say reflect, I mean that. I only can 
 describe the graphics by saying wow. If you want to see it for yourself, in the GameSpot screenshot 
 gallery for this game you will find a picture of this: go, and see if I told you lies.
  Youre maybe thinking that you will need at least 4 MB of VRAM, plus an acceleration card, in order 
 to enjoy this graphical bacchanal. Wrong. MDK runs with 1 MB, without acceleration, and its graphics 
 work fast and smooth! Hey, this game even runs perfectly in plain DOS! Congratulations, Shiny! 
 You have made the impossible: an impressive game for old machines with no stressing hardware requirements!
 
  The only problem Ive found in the game is this: its very short. At the same time, its very 
 long. Short, because it got only 6 levels. Long, because the levels are so hard and challenging 
 that you will need weeks, months, in order to beat each of them. You got only one life, and you 
 can only save your games between levels; so every time you lose you got to start the level from 
 the very beginning. And thats where frustration comes.
  Even with this permanent risk of hating the game because of this feature, MDK is definitively a 
 must-have. Believe me: its not very usual to see games of this quality out there. Thumbs up, way 
 up, including those of the feet!
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
