-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: MDK2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/mdk2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 12, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 8.7, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 505 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interplay
Developer: BioWare
Genre: Sci-Fi Shooter
Date:     May 31, 2000 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It improves on the original's technology and expands its gameplay without losing the off-kilter 
 sense of humor that helped make MDK so unique. 

 When it was announced that BioWare would be developing the sequel to Shiny's 1997 action hit, MDK, 
 there was some understandable concern among fans of the original. While BioWare had become known 
 for its high-quality role-playing game Baldur's Gate, it wasn't exactly known for its quirky 3D 
 shooters. But that's about to change. MDK 2 is everything you'd want in a sequel. It improves on 
 the original's technology and expands its gameplay without losing the off-kilter sense of humor 
 that helped make MDK so unique.   

  MDK 2 begins just moments after the end of the first game. Mad scientist Dr. Hawkins, his janitor 
 and reluctant superhero Kurt, and the six-legged robotic dog Max are aboard their spaceship celebrating 
 their defeat of extraterrestrial madman Gunter Glut. The ship's computer informs them that a second 
 alien warship has been spotted threatening Edmonton, Alberta, and Kurt is once again forced to 
 don his battle suit and wage a one-man war against the alien menace.   

  Only this time, he's not alone in his one-man war. Dr. Hawkins and Max, who had little more than 
 walk-on roles in the original, are full-fledged, playable characters this time around. The game 
 is split into ten huge levels. Each level is played using one of the three characters, and each 
 character stars in three levels.   

  The gameplay on the Kurt levels is pretty much unchanged from MDK, and it's still both unique and 
 enjoyable. As in the original, Kurt's coil suit is equipped with a chaingun, a powerful sniper 
 rifle, and a parachute. The action in these levels generally centers on a combination of precision 
 sniping and gliding.   

  Max's levels play more like an over-the-top shooter. He has six limbs, two of which are used for 
 walking, while each of the other four can be equipped with a weapon, making him a veritable wall 
 of firepower. In some levels, Max is given a rechargeable hover pack that leads to some tricky 
 jumping and flying puzzles. These act to break up the shooting action, but a few - especially one 
 that requires you to slowly guide Max over a pool of deadly toxic waste - are more frustrating 
 than fun. However, this more annoying sort of challenge is the exception to what is generally a 
 highly gratifying string of outrageous firefights.   

  The weakest of the levels are the ones in which you control Dr. Hawkins. Instead of wielding an 
 arsenal, he can pick up common objects, combine them with each other, and then use them to solve 
 puzzles. When Hawkins' levels take full advantage of this adventure-game style of play, they're 
 generally successful. It's an interesting departure from the more straightforward action of the 
 Kurt and Max levels. Unfortunately, the Dr. Hawkins levels too often resort to tedious jumping 
 puzzles across deadly terrain. The first of the Dr. Hawkins levels also contains the game's low 
 point: a pointless, awful subgame in which you must guide a fish through a long maze of identical-looking 
 pipes.   

  Even so, it's a testament to the great amount of imagination displayed throughout the majority 
 of the game that you'll gladly suffer through these occasional tiresome segments to see what comes 
 next. BioWare has packed each level with plenty of interesting content. Virtually every level ends 
 with an epic battle against a huge, multistage boss character. MDK 2 features what has to be among 
 the best 3D translations to date of the intense boss battles from classic coin-op and console side-scrolling 
 action shooters.   

  The original MDK's levels generally consisted of giant environments connected by tight corridors. 
 BioWare has retained this general structure but has developed its own rendering engine for the 
 sequel. The open areas are now even bigger. Some are truly enormous and appear to stretch on forever. 
 As in MDK, the game's visuals are simultaneously both gloomy and lightheartedly surreal, like a 
 dystopian version of Dr. Seuss' Whoville. One of the biggest incentives to beat each level is simply 
 to experience the next strange, spectacular vista.   

  BioWare has included a few features in the PC version that were absent from the recently released 
 Sega Dreamcast version. The biggest change is the addition of a much-needed save-anywhere feature. 
 MDK 2 on the Dreamcast was brutally difficult, largely due to an acute shortage of save spots. 
 The PC version also has four different difficulty settings - a big improvement over the Dreamcast's 
 none. Unfortunately, the save-anywhere feature, which apparently wasn't part of the original design, 
 can actually be used to cheat your way through a timed switch-flipping puzzle that composes a large 
 part of one of the Dr. Hawkins' levels - you can just restore your game until you get the sequence 
 right. But if you can resist the temptation to overuse the save feature, it helps make the game 
 a lot less frustrating and more enjoyable to play: It transforms MDK 2 from a long, grueling odyssey, 
 into a shorter, easier, yet still intensely enjoyable two- or three-day adventure.   

  While console-style action games are becoming more common on the PC, good ones are still rare. 
 MDK 2 may be slightly short, but it makes up for it by being relentlessly ingenious.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: otomayim
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 9, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  MDK2 is one of these titles that PC gamers rarely see and play. It combines elements from the action/adventure 
 and platform genres and looks more like a console type of game than a PC-like experience. Despite 
 this fact the controls ( with the mouse and keyboard) are great and the title is fun to play -at 
 least most of the times.
  
  The strongest point of MDK2 is its unique style and distinct personality. Smart humor, funny moments, 
 clever story that make this a joy to play (as long as it lasts) . The cutscenes ( a combination 
 of comic book storyboards and videos that use the game's graphics engine ) are hilarious to watch 
 and give a stylistic presentation to the title. The design and the animation of the three heroes 
 ( Kurt, the protagonist of the first MDK, Max, the four-armed robotic dog and Dr. Hawkins, the 
 crazy scientist ) and their enemies follow this humorous trend. The same goes for the bosses that 
 are huge in size and have extraordinary and bizarre looks, that fit perfectly to the sci-fi and 
 funny atmosphere of the game. The environments look gorgeous at times, with flawless -even breath 
 taking- draw distance, enough variety to keep things interesting and very crisp textures... in 
 addition to that the dark colours support the sci-fi feeling of the MDK series excellently. The 
 problem is that MDK2 gets a bit repetitive at times ( too dark, too many tight corridors that aren't 
 as impressive as the open environments, not that many different enemies) and since it has a short 
 lifespan that's a bit disappointing.
  
  The music really helps in the creation of the futuristic atmosphere in the title... it sounds cool 
 ( or funny depending on the circumstances) and the same goes for the voice acting that's fantastic 
 and brings the characters to life. The sound effects are mostly average though.
  
  The good news is that you have three playable characters this time, with different abilities that 
 add variety to the game play. The bad news is that the best of them is Kurt so the above fact remains 
 a bit debatable ( it would be better the whole game to be based on this character) . Kurt can either 
 strafe around his enemies and exterminate them using his grenades and chaingun ( this weapon is 
 upgradable) or stand still and shoot at them with his sniper rifle ( it can get different kinds 
 of ammo-&gt; keep in mind that Kurt is vulnerable while in sniping mode) . He can also use his parachute 
 during the hard jumping sequences or follow a more stealthy approach with the help of pick-ups 
 like the Cloak device. This character is my favourite and his missions are a blast to play.
  
  Max is mostly about shooting since he can hold 4 different weapons at once. He can choose between 
 magnums, shotguns, different types of machine guns and missile launchers so there is enough variety 
 in his arsenal to blow up everything that stands in his way. You can even have the same weapon 
 on each hand so imagine what happens with 4 machine guns firing at once... total mayhem. Then there 
 is the rechargeable jump-pack that he can use in order to access higher areas and get through difficult 
 and tedious jumping sequences, reminding a bit of Rare's Jet Force Gemini. Too bad that these are 
 some of the most difficult, frustrating and boring moments of the whole game.
  
  The last character is Dr Hawkins who is different than the rest of the cast since he can't use 
 any weapons and he has to use his/your brains... simply put he has to combine different items in 
 order to create new ones that will help him to solve a few simple puzzles. Less shooting and more 
 adventuring with this one. It adds variety to the game play but I prefer the action sequences of 
 Kurt and Max. Another drawback is that there are also jumping puzzles even in Dr Hawkins levels... 
 .
  
  There are 10 different missions ( 3 for each character and you can beat the final boss / level 
 with anyone of them -there are three different endings, don't expect major differences though) , 
 each mission won't take more than 2 hours in order to finish and there is always a cool boss fight 
 at the end of each stage. The good thing is that the PC version has a quick save option, so each 
 time that you will miss a jump you won't have to replay the level from the beginning. The bad thing 
 with this feature is that the title becomes much easier and you will finish it in around 15 hours. 
 The game just isn't as challenging as it should be and the quick save button ( that doesn't exist 
 in the console version) really ruins this one ( it's like cheating all the time) . At least there 
 is the option of the 4 different difficulty settings to balance somehow this problem.
  
  MDK is a solid action/adventure/platform hybrid that is worth your time thanks to its atmosphere, 
 style and humour. The problem is that this is a very short experience and won't last for more than 
 2-3 days. What's more the unbalanced game play of the three characters makes the title at times 
 less fun and more tedious than it should be. So keep these things in mind before buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebbderelict
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 10, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  One thing that's just as impactful in MDK2 as it's predecessor is sound. The music and ambiance 
 is still great!
  
  The humour in the game is not the subtle absurdity as in the first, and so not as entertaining 
 for me.
  
  The levels are still large and flowing, and although linear gives a nice combination of claustrophobia 
 and wide open spaces.
  
  The big bad bosses are still very big, and a little badder than before.
  
  The biggest change 
 is one of the best new features, and one of the worst. Instead of being limited to playing only 
 as Kurt (the chain gun sniper rifle totin' hero of MDK) to also get to play as his robot dog Max, 
 and the genius professor. Playing as Max is pretty fun. He carries around multiple types of fire 
 arms, including hand guns, shot guns, and automatic rifles. The fun part is that you can be wielding 
 up to 4 at a time in whatever combination you see fit.
  Then there's the levels with the Professor. These levels are more of a puzzle style platformer. 
 You find various items around the space station he's on and combine them to build weapons and gadgets. 
 That's kind of fun. But the levels got tiresome for me fairly quickly. I play MDK for the fast 
 paced action, not this. And again, although Max's level are fun, I want more Kurt.
  
  Overall the action does pay off, and makes the game lots of fun! Although not matching all the 
 style an uniqueness of the original, it's a worthwhile sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 5, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  I was waiting for this sequel for a long time. When I finally had it, the first disappointment 
 was that despite use of a better technology, it looked darker. Then the gameplay sometimes seemed 
 cryptic. The switching of the characters, though the characters themselves are funny, was not quite 
 comfortable. Honestly I did not finish the game.
  The changes in the game, I think, came from the fact that this game was developed by Bioware, and 
 not the original maker- Shiny Entertainment. The new developer did expand the ideas of MDK. In 
 fact the game gives you a better idea about the hero, the professor and the robot dog. The game 
 delivers the enemies in the same manner of the original game, while you play three characters in 
 rotation. Now some gamers are okay with that, but I find switching whole set of commands irritating. 
 This kills the gameplaying mood. That does not mean that I did not appreciate the humour in the 
 game. The main characters are still funny, the enemies are also funny. the puzzles are there. Still 
 things did not gel as brilliantly as they did in the original game. May be they should have simplified 
 the gameplay to make it more enjoyable. Plus, the original MDK's graphics score much higher than 
 this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tommer_Wine
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 30, 2006 7:32 am PT
Review:  Mdk 2 is a gem among the older games that you can find. you start playing as Kurt, a janitor and 
 switch between the three lovable characters as the game goes by. The game starts where the last 
 one left off, with the group celebrating the defeat of Gunter Gluck, the evil alien leader. When 
 all of a sudden there's an emergency in Edmonton (their home town) . They rush to save the day and 
 the adventure begins. You find that the three characters, (the professor, the robotic dog and the 
 janitor withe the untested battle suit) have different abilities and still the controls stay familiar. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: numeraswrong
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 23, 2006 12:08 am PT
Review:  It is a thinkers game. It isn't very easy. I have struggled it for several days. Graphics cold 
 be better. But the caraters are well described and designed. It is definitely the game you should 
 try. Just don't have high expectations. Any way I liked it very much. I specially liked the doctor. 
 I think he is a little creaky. Any way i liked that you can combine things like atomic toaster 
 and bread. So you can shoot atomic bread on your enemies. The game is totally '' freaky.'' But 
 i am thinking it in good sense. It will bring you hours and hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 17, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  It is ashame that no one hasn't seen this game true aspects back then because it is a really good 
 game.
  
  The gameplay has really improved from the first one. You get to be Kurt but also you get to be 
 Maxx the Dog and the nutty professor dr. hawkins. The 3 characters have different backgrounds. 
 I mean, Kurt uses stealth things. Like you get the cloak to be invisible, the classic dummie decoy 
 that will distract your enemies, grenades, a parachute to glide (well this thing doesn't look like 
 a parachute at all, you'll see if you play the game) and a sniper helmet, which it's not a gun... it 
 a thing that attaches to the helmet and kurt can look threw it and it can shoot things in a very 
 far distance. It comes with different types of ammo like normal bullets, homing bullets, mortar 
 bullets, bouncy mortar bullets and explosive sniper ammo. If you played the first mdk then you 
 would be quite familiar with Kurt. Now the robotic dog maxx can uses brute force which means he 
 uses guns, lots and lots of guns. This dog may have four arms, but man he is the first character 
 in a game I seen is able to hold 4 guns at once. There are so many types of weapons you can pick 
 like magnums, uzis, chainguns, shotguns, rockets, lasers and etc. O ya he can also use a jet pack. 
 How cool is that. Now Dr. Hawkins is a little different... he uses his science experiments help him 
 on his adventure. Like he uses his atomic toaster that shoots nuclear toast at the enemies, but 
 this is the most hilarious and most unique weapon I ever seen. But he makes other weird and cool 
 inventions like making molotov cocktails, using pumper-nickels for bombs, and making a very long 
 ladder with just duct tape, extended cord and with sewer pipes... thats impressive. Dr. Hawkins is 
 very funny though, you will want to use him because of his comical acts in the game.
  
  Yeah the first MDK game is the first game I played on pc. I couldn't miss out on this one and this 
 MDK2 just got better. But it a huge shame no one doesn't know about it. It is a great game, maybe 
 the graphics is a little out dated now a days but still, if you do find it in your bargain bin, 
 try it out or try the demo at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikromouse
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 19, 2005 4:20 pm PT
Review:  MDK2 was a game that was bundled with the purchase of a video card for me. I bought a shiny new 
 GeForce 2 MX, and was treated to a game I had a lot of fun with.
  
  Having seen MDK 1 I sort of knew what to expect. Man in cool suit allows him to parachute to safety 
 (trippy lookin chute too) , utilize a sniper rifle, and generally cause mayhem while trying to destroy 
 some ugly looking space aliens.
  
  This sequel doesn't stray far from that original idea. Where things get odd and interesting is 
 when the characters switch. You get to play as the dog which has a jetpack, and the absent-minded 
 professor who must create inventions out of everyday objects. The latter is a throwback to true 
 adventure games where you had to figure out how to use the tools at your disposal.
  
  The jetpack levels with the dog spice things up and involve less shooting even though you have 
 4 arms and 4 guns. The professor levels were among the most frustrating for me: a set of them involves 
 diffusing bombs by tracing snarls of wires to the correct defuse button. If you guess the sequence 
 incorrectly its bye-bye for you.
  
  In the end, the game felt too short and I definitely don't remember seeing a lot of marketing for 
 it. Its a great game to play if you enjoyed MDK 1, but I don't see BioWare reinvesting in this 
 property any time soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diglow1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 14, 2004 12:26 am PT
Review:  MDK2 is a stylish action game that is fast paced and looks great. 
  MDK2 is essentially a shooter but it comic book style and sharp humor set it apart from the pack. 
 The game is full of cool abilities, interesting level design and great enemies. The AI is very 
 respectable for a game of its age and the graphics are equally impressive. It's not to different 
 from the original and if you liked MDK, you need to play MDK2. However, gamers that are new to 
 the series can either jump in at MDK2 for great game play or play the original first to get aquainted 
 with the gameplay and general feel of the series.
  MDK2 is worth a bargin bin pick up for hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMarcus
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 13, 2004 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Again, I'm tempted to review an older classic of mine - and MDK 2 provided me an extremely fun 
 challenge, and its well implemented sense of humor remains unique for the genre - so unique considering 
 the harder challenge than your normal average action game. The sense of epic sci-fi scope is not 
 tampered down despite this light humor mainly incorporated throughout various cutscenes, very well 
 done in a vivid cartoony fashion. 
  
  The gameplay mechanics, good enough, could have been magical if not handicapped from time to time 
 by an occasional glitch or control problems ( I'm told the Dreamcast version runs smoother ) . Even 
 more impressive are the graphics, an outstanding combination of thoughtful design and cartoony 
 meshes. I say it for a very few games, and that one figures in my short list of polished designs 
 of modern art to interact with. If you like all forms of cartoony artistry like comic books, sci-fi, 
 fantasy, and incorporated into a credible design of varied levels, MDK 2 provides a unique experience. 
 Also, I did not find a similar game delivering such a successful combo of drama scope AND humor, 
 by the exception of No One Lives Forever of course.
  
  Yes, the most ''annoying flaw'' is the good amount of platforming, jumping, and some jump puzzles 
 ( not all ) can be excruciating ..... maybe unacceptable for many gamers by today's standards, but 
 still a gameplay feature widely ( and intentionally ) coded in action games at that time.
  
  All in all too hardcore for the casual gamer, but a modern gem this rare should have been more 
 carefully studied, isn't it ? 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
