-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: MechWarrior 2: 31st Century Combat
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/mechwarrior231stcc/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  1, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.8, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 594 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Genre: Mech Sim
Date:     Jun 30, 1995

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
With controls more like those of a flight sim, and a need for strategy and planning, this is not 
 your average action game. 

 For years we waited patiently (and sometimes not so patiently) for Activison to finish the sequel 
 to the original MechWarrior, watching them sack one development team after another until, finally, 
 they got it right.  

 And oh man, did they get it right.  

 Starting as a series of non-computerized RPG-like games, the MechWarrior 2 story, set in the 31st 
 century, revolves around warring clans who are duking it out in massive, bipedal war machines known 
 as "Mechs." The Wolf and Jade Falcon Clans are each vying for control of Terra, sending their armies 
 of heavily armed robotic behemoths against each other in a never-ending cycle of violence. As a 
 new pilot for either side, you must bring your clan victories and do so with honor in order to 
 ensure success and rise through the ranks.   

 Different battles have different goals: sometimes search and destroy, sometimes recon, base strikes, 
 or other missions. As your playing improves, you're put at the head of a squad which you control. 
 In each mission you can outfit yourselfwith a custom Mech, which you can modify down to weapons 
 loadout, heat sinks, engine, and so forth. Over a dozen Mechs are available, each with its own 
 strengths and weaknesses, and picking the right one for the job at hand can becrucial.  

 The graphics are gorgeous, with display resolution running from 320x200 to 1024x768 HiRes SVGA. 
 At the highest detail levels (which even top-notch Pentiums will have trouble with) you can see 
 right down to the clan insignia on the side of the enemy Mechs. Even in 640x480, the view through 
 the cockpit of your Mech is stunning.   

 A new version also runs native in Windows 95, and includes the NetMech bundle, allowing for head-to-head 
 games over LAN and direct connection. (NetMech is available separately for DOS gamers.) The Win95 
 version doesn't seem to run quite as smoothly, and I had a bear of a time getting a stable connection 
 for NetMech. Once up and running, however, you can play with "team" games such as capture the flag, 
 "steal the plans," and scavenger hunt, as well as last-mech-standing duels in cities, canyons and 
 other locations.  

 This is no cake walk: MechWarrior 2 is a tough, demanding game, with challenging controls and opponents. 
 Maneuvering both the Mech and the turret can be a tricky proposition at times. With controls more 
 like those of a flight sim, and a need for strategy and planning, this is not your average action 
 game. It demands a lot of computer systems and gamers alike, but it delivers like nothing else 
 around.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jdlee05
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 11, 2007 12:42 pm PT
Review:  MechWarrior 2 was the first video game I had ever played in my life., due to a fairly sheltered 
 childhood, and it is still one of my favorite games of all time. The graphics were amazing for 
 their time and the gameplay was revolutionary. With a rich and deep backstory and an incredibe 
 soundtrack there is more than great gameplay to keep you coming back to this one. The ability to 
 customize your mech and to control you squad as you progressed to the higher levels really made 
 it feel like you were in control of the gameplay. So, if you failed a mission you knew there were 
 variables that you could change to see if you could get it the next time. The controls are easy 
 to pick up and feel very natural. Also, the game is definitely challenging. It is just an excellent 
 game as a whole. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernieic
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 20, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Well of not ALL of them, but a lot of them really took a new direction after this game, if you 
 would like to know some of the back story to were the other Mechwarrior games came from , or would 
 like to see one of the most revolutionary Mech games of its time this is the one. For its time 
 it had the best sound and graphics of any other game. I would highly recommend it for anyone who 
 likes the current mech games, even thought its an older game in my opinion its still one of the 
 best sim games ever. I had MANY fun nights because of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sahfire
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 3, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  One of the first games I bought for the PC, 31st Century Combat is THE game that sparked my love 
 for anything Battletech related, and game soundtracks. Fighting as a Clan Mechwarrior, you battle 
 a rival clan for the fate of the Inner Sphere. Although the eventual outcome of the conflict has 
 no basis in Battletech literature, it does give you a good impression of Clan life.
  
  In between missions, players are treated to a wealth of information which is based on the Battletech 
 novels and source books. Add to that an extensive library in the Clan archives which players can 
 access in the main Clan Hall, and no new-comer to the series can ever complain about the fact that 
 they have no clue as to what this game is all about.
  
  I must note that the soundtrack, by Jeehun Hwang and Gregory Alper, is a true masterpiece, and 
 won an award for best soundtrack. The soundtrack can be played on a regular CD player, which was 
 kind of a novelty at the time. I still play the music on my iPod.
  
  All in all, a superb game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: easy0neasy0ff
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 21, 2006 1:52 am PT
Review:  Young and impressionable minds agree : blowing up things = fun. When I got my first computer all 
 I had to play on it was freeware until I went to egghead software and found this game and a brand 
 spanking new joystick to go with it called a 'Sidewinder 3D'. I couldnt believe it, my parents 
 hated violent video games, but my father liked the way this looked. He agreed to buy it and the 
 rest is history. Mechwarrior is based off the Battletech universe of giant battles between worlds 
 and secrets invading 'clans'. Set on various battlegrounds that all have the same thing in common: 
 they are worth something and everyone wants ownership. You will go through training and then put 
 in a quad to back up your team. Customize your mech and then hope you made the right choices. You 
 will often be put in missions solo, but will sometimes have assistance. The graphics where awesome 
 and for the time, very few games where completely done in 3D. Things looked realistic enough to 
 be identified as friend or foe, and the hud/control system was flawless. Mapping buttons to the 
 sidewinder was a snap, and movement was fluid and precise. The sounds where all very close to what 
 energy weapons or giant auto cannons would most likely sound like. Getting peppered by a volley 
 of missiles will probably make you flinch as your mech rocks back and forth from explosions. The 
 music was superb and some of the best in any game; to top it off the cds where red booked and you 
 could pop them in your 'boom box' and listen to them all day. This is the turning point of my PC 
 gaming addiction. Thank you Activision, you make life better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 4, 2006 7:17 am PT
Review:  This was one of those games that was a steal, having gotten this with my new computer back in the 
 90s. The features of blowing stuff up and customizing my machines compelled me to play and get 
 addicted for quite some time. I was never able to beat the game, but I sure did have fun piloting 
 these mechs around.
  
  The graphics were fairly blocky, but solid enough to know what you are doing. You could tell when 
 something blew up or when a mech comes into you infrared scanner. The sound was also fairly nice, 
 with great explosion sounds and a little monitoring voice that let you know what was going on.
 
  
  This is a mission based game that requires you to upgrade your mech to better fit the needs of 
 the environment. If you need jet boosters or missle launchers, you could puchase those parts.
 
  
  Like I said, getting this bundle with my computer was a steal. Even with the new editions out there, 
 this is a classic for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikromouse
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 20, 2005 9:03 pm PT
Review:  MechWarrior 2 ran in a DOS window. Oh yeah. It didn't support 3D acceleration but had vector drawn 
 graphics with simple shaders.
  
  Even with primitive graphics, the game was intense. Strapping your character into a mech, a mechanical 
 robot with 4 sets of interchangeable weapons, jumpjets and varying mech abilities was a hoot. I 
 enjoyed playing the single-player missions.
  
  Playing networked just got me hammered. The online competition was often fierce and sometimes more 
 than it needed to be. I couldn't hack it (which is one reason why I think I hated it so much) .
 
  
  The game itself has gone on to spawn MW 3, and MechAssault the reincarnation on the Xbox platform.
 
  
  Sound was iffy, graphics were yucky, and after about 6 hours, I lost my interest. I can't whole-heartedly 
 recommend this game but I can suggest picking up a more recent version of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iron-Dragon
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 4, 2004 2:54 am PT
Review:  While I definitely wouldnt suggest going back and playing this game in the year 2004 seriously, 
 it would be an excellent way for fans of the mech games on the xbox to go back and check out there 
 roots. Mechassault 2 was the game in the mech series that really got the franchise notoriety and 
 and a strong fan base. The strong need for well planned assaults really adds to the action. An 
 excellent game overall, but it wasnt exactly the top of PC games at the time of its release. Anyways, 
 I would suggest this to mechassault fans who would like to see what exactly started the series. 
 Mechassault 2 on December 28! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragoonlover
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 12, 2004 1:25 am PT
Review:  Mechwarrior 2 is the very pinnacle of cool. While it's only a very small window into the Battletech 
 universe and messes around with some of the names a bit, it still remains remarkably true to the 
 popular gaming franchise. And even if you're not into that sort of thing, taken by itself, Mechwarrior 
 2 is a satisfying experience. It manages to do the unthinkable -- providing elements that satisfy 
 hard core fans of simulation games without seeming too dry and clinical, as many other sim games 
 tend to get. The game successfully gives you the feeling that you're controlling a giant battle 
 machine. The graphics and sound combine to give your mech a sense of weight. Options like infrared 
 vision, wireframe vision, satellite linkup, the ability to eject your ammo, and different firing 
 sequences give the game a sense of realism. You have to control your teammates and watch your heat 
 levels. There are a wide variety of weapons, and each has its own strengths and weaknesses. You 
 even get control over what mech you want for the missions and what kind of loadout it gets. It's 
 this kind of attention to detail that makes Mechwarrior 2 stand among the best of sim games. But 
 despite being a sim game, it never fails to provide an exciting, visceral experience. The missions 
 are all clever and well thought out, and the firefights resemble duels between titanic monsters. 
 There are very few things in the gaming world more satisfying than waiting patiently for a lock 
 tone and unleashing a barrage of missiles on your opponent. And working behind the scenes is a 
 story of clans and politics and the feeling that you're part of something much bigger. The clans 
 have an honor system based on strength, and you gain respect by your performance in battle and 
 in duels for rank. But even without all this, Mechwarrior 2 would still be a satisfying sim game. 
 It has the right amount of cool, accessibility, pop culture, and hard core sim power. It has very 
 little dippy voice acting, no unnecessary narrative gumming up the works, and no arcade feeling. 
 Other games with giant machines have tried to imitate this game's success, and there have even 
 been other entries in the Mech series, but in my opinion, Mechwarrior 2 remains the king. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
