-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: MechWarrior 4: Mercenaries
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/mechwarrior4mercenaries/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 18, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 8.3, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 750 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: FASA Studio
Genre: Mech Sim
Date:     Nov 7, 2002 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Mercenaries is the perfect stand-alone sequel: improved enough for hard-core players, yet accessible 
 enough for novices. 

 The MechWarrior franchise has now been around so long that it's running out of names. Aside from 
 the numerical designation, MechWarrior 4: Mercenaries shares its name with a product released as 
 part of the MechWarrior 2 line. Both covered essentially the same ground, but unlike the 1996 game, 
 MechWarrior 4: Mercenaries version works beautifully right out of the box. It's as polished as 
 the rest of the Microsoft-published games in this franchise, and while it doesn't have the same 
 impact that the original MechWarrior 4 had two years ago, it's still a very good game.         
   The branching campaign lets you choose your missions on a planet.    

  Mercenaries is essentially a stand-alone update to 2000's MechWarrior 4: Vengeance. It's fully 
 compatible with the Inner Sphere and Clan Mech Pak expansions, so you don't lose any functionality 
 by upgrading. Some of the weapons have been rebalanced, but for the most part, it's the familiar 
 MechWarrior 4 gameplay.   

  In the single-player campaign, you play as a mercenary leader. You jump around the galaxy, visiting 
 various worlds and completing missions, which eventually opens up new worlds with new missions. 
 There are maintenance costs to be paid in each cycle, so initially you'll have to stay on a single 
 world to avoid paying fees due to time spent in hyperspace. You'll eventually get the chance to 
 lead two full lances of mechs (but only when the game specifically lets you, not simply when you 
 can afford it) and keep track of your standing with House Steiner and House Davion. The uneven 
 cutscenes in Vengeance have been replaced by decent, if campy, voice-overs, although the voice 
 work gets tiresome if you have to repeat the missions too often.           The new coliseum maps 
 are part of a nice gladiator-like system.    

  While the campaign might appear to be dynamically generated, it's really a scripted (albeit branching) 
 campaign in which your choices early on affect the ones that become available later. It's not really 
 possible to fail, since if you don't complete a mission you just restart, so you don't have to 
 worry about destroyed mechs or mounting cycle costs. The missions have a good mix of recon, assault, 
 and stealth objectives, and the game has three endings based on your mission choices, so you can't 
 just play on indefinitely, taking assignments and building up your mech arsenal. A nice addition 
 is the Solaris gameworld, where you can go and fight gladiator-style battles for cash prizes in 
 different weight classes. You start in the light mech class and progress to assault, and there 
 are factory, coliseum, and jungle maps to choose from, each with its own ladder. The only disappointment 
 is that the encounters are scripted at each level, so if you fail to place in any round, your subsequent 
 fights will have the same mechs and placement.    

 While the mech lab interface is sufficient for building and modifying individual mechs, it gets 
 a little tedious when managing multiple lances, especially with the need to go into the free market 
 and buy chassis and weapons on a regular basis. In the game, you can be sponsored by one of four 
 mercenary companies (Kell Hounds, Wolf's Dragoon, Gray Death Legion, or Northwind Highlanders) , 
 each of which will provide access to different weapons on the free market (although you'll eventually 
 be able to buy anything you can afford) .           The graphics engine is no longer spectacular, 
 but it's still decent.    

  Mercenaries also makes improvements to MechWarrior 4's multiplayer component, including an improved 
 (and chat-enabled) server browser window that now shows the respawn, ammo, and heat settings for 
 each game and thus serves as a warning about potentially immature opposition. The attrition game 
 types have been consolidated into battle and team battle, and Mercenaries has plenty of new maps. 
   

  The initially impressive MechWarrior 4 graphics engine now looks merely acceptable, and while Cyberlore 
 has made some graphical updates, there are some areas in Mercenaries (especially the terrain) in 
 which the engine clearly shows its age. Still, the game looks good enough to maintain the atmosphere 
 of the MechWarrior universe, and the fact that there isn't a brand-new engine means that system 
 requirements shouldn't be a problem.           You can lead up to two lances in combat, but control 
 is limited.    

  Mercenaries is the perfect stand-alone sequel: improved enough for hard-core players, yet accessible 
 enough for novices. The MechWarrior series' basic premise -- blowing up giant robots with futuristic 
 weaponry -- is still loads of fun. Mercenaries' single-player campaign is engaging, but MechWarrior 
 is really all about multiplayer. With such a popular franchise, you won't have much trouble finding 
 a game to join, and even practicing against the AI while you hone your skills is enjoyable. Thanks 
 to MechWarrior 4: Mercenaries, the MechWarrior series doesn't seem like it will wear out its welcome 
 anytime soon.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: HAL0030
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 6, 2008 9:26 pm PT
Review:  MechWarrior 4 (MW4) Mercenaries is a great addition to the 'Mech Series'. It has excellent game 
 play style and missions. Also the part role-play experience gives the game its own unique style 
 as most 'Mech games' were just play and shoot. But MW4 Mercenaries is a Play, choose and shoot 
 game. The sound and visuals are great and the story is thorough, but not complicated. There are 
 four clans to join and each clan has there own uniqueness about them (money wise, equipment wise, 
 etc) .
  
  MW4 Mercenaries has many missions to choose and play, however you cannot play them all as you generally 
 swing more to one side and the other side doesn't offer you contracts anymore. Also, you have specific 
 hard points on a Mech which can only be equipped by certain types of weapons. There are omni hard 
 points on Mechs which enable any type of weapon to be put on (providing that it is large enough 
 to cater for the huge armaments) . The weapons are fantastic and the noises they make are impressive. 
 The areas in which the missions take place are great (terrain, atmosphere and location wise) .
 
  
  MW4 Mercenaries has a good sound track to keep you pumped when in action, or when there is no danger. 
 The style of earning money to improve your rank as a mercenary and increase your power and strength 
 is another great thing for the game. Even when you have finished single-player, you can customise 
 a quick mission and choose what Mechs you will have on your team and what Mechs you will be against. 
 There are great areas to choose (single-player missions) and also the Multiplayer is good online. 
 Without Internet, you still have a fantastic game and hours of fun which gets points in my books.
 
  
  Not only does MW4 Mercenaries have well all round stats, but it also has such list of good characters 
 and voice overs. A favourite voice is the one called 'Duncan Fisher'. When you are about to be 
 attacked it is also great to hear the leader of the enemy talk and your character talk back. When 
 Mechs are hit, or explode or do whatever they do, it looks great and it is satisfying when you 
 take out a Mech which is in mid-air.
  
  MW4 Mercenaries is definitely a great 'Mech Game' because everything that makes a 'Mech Game' good 
 (action, story and designs) , MW4 Mercenaries has plus more (choosing what you attack in a custom 
 match, playing campaign maps) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainHarley
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 2, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  This is simply a solid game. No fancy bells and whistles, no requirements to buy new hardware to 
 play it, no need to spend HOURS on boring tutorials... you pick it up and play it. While thew arcade 
 nature might not appeal to everyone, I like the somewhat lighter approach as the game's accessibility 
 has leap upwards and the speed of the action has picked up as a result. This is still a thinking 
 action game with a methodical, deliberate pace, but it never feels 'sluggish' per se.
  
  Multiplayer is pretty inconsequential. The 'instant action' mode would be fun but is hampered by 
 awful menus with terrible programming, forcing you to repeatedly set things over and over until 
 you get what you want. The campaign is the meat and potatoes and certainly rocks. Building your 
 mercenary company from the ground up is quite satisfying and the arena is a fun distraction.
  
  If you can find a copy, recommended. It's a good many hours of simply solid mech-smashing action. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baron_Kenobi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 11:39 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that stays true to the series. It is not arcade like Mech Assualt, but a true simulator 
 that takes a little getting used to, but is far more rewarding once you do. 
  
  You have the option of buying and custimizing mechs. You can configure them to whatever you want, 
 and once you start to get the hang of the game, you won't ever go out in the stock configuration. 
 You can also custimize your wingmates mechs, including paint jobs, to make it easy to tell which 
 mechs are yours.
  
  Gameplay rocks, even if it is a somewhat of a slow burning. Several missions will require patience 
 and some can be quite frusterating, though you always feel as though you are in control of a five 
 story monstrosity, not a guy walking around with a rifle. It does an excellent job of defining 
 itself there.
  
  The story is weak, and will probably be nigh indecipherable for those people who haven't read the 
 books. However, for those who have at least a little bit of background knowledge in the BattleTech 
 universe, here is a chance to play some of the famous battles from the Steiner-Davion civil war. 
 Quite impressive.
  
  Overall, it is fun if you are into BattleTech, and can be even if you aren't, but this is not a 
 straight forward shooter, this takes more practice and skill than keen eyesight and reflexes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: earlgrey23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  This is one of my top 3 games of all time. Hell I still dream of it. But then again I played the 
 boxed game as a kid and those mechs come to life is a dream come true for me. Just a fun fun fun 
 game to play!
  
  The mix of missions and the ability to increase your skills in the Arena make it eminently replayable 
 even before the age of open ended campaingning. I just bought a uber system and am going to reinstall 
 and see if it still plays!
  
  I actually replay missions in my head to this day to help me fall asleep... maybe that is a bit 
 much but true... lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamauldi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 26, 2007 12:37 am PT
Review:  I do find Mechwarrior 4 in particular a good game, with MW4 Mercenaries being the best in its series. 
 However, even this mercenaries game is not as memorable or as addicting as Mechwarrior 2 Mercenaries 
 ever was. Still, this game is worth playing, and I do enjoy it for several reasons:
  
  One, there are so many Mechs to choose from, you'll end up having not just one favorite but several 
 if not all. My all-time favorite Mech is the Catapult (and it has been since MW2 Mercenaries) , 
 but I also like the Timber Wolf, the Timber Wolf Assault, the Stormcrow, the Kit Fox, and the Fafnir. 
 I guess Clan Mechs are more popular than the Inner Sphere are. Second, throughout MW4, more weapons 
 have been introduced as a new game was produced. In Mercenaries, weapons like the Heavy Gauss Rifle 
 do make battles a little bit more unpredictable and interesting. Another benefit is the fact you 
 can choose whatever weapons you want on this walking tanks and create variants, while the only 
 thing you have to worry about is weight tonnage. The only drawback I find about the weapons in 
 MW4 is that they take too long to be usable again when apprehended afterward. In MW2, even a Large 
 Laser would recycle as fast as a Large Pulse Laser in MW4 would. Third, I find the missions in 
 MW4 Mercenaries quite enjoyable and addicting. I think what they should introduce in the future 
 Mechwarrior games are some more of those competition-type missions where you battle it out with 
 computer players and you have to be the last one standing to win. I believe those kind of missions 
 are what helped this game to be the best one in all of MW4. Other than that, I do love the mission 
 where a huge army on both sides are involved in an everlasting, bloody battle. The missions in 
 MW4 Mercenaries, Revolution and Overlord, are good examples. Lastly, and this is the most interesting 
 part about MW4 Mercenaries. A couple of years ago, MekTek created a MekPak which introduced dozens 
 of new Mechs and weapons into MW4 Mercenaries. No new missions, though. I honor their hard diligence 
 to create all those Mechs, and to create a completely new world for us Mechwarrior fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JonB1969
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  Mechwarrior 4 Mercenaries isn't so much a sequel as it offers a new facet of the Mechwarrior universe. 
 You start out on the Mercenaries R Us planet of Outreach, where you get to go through several very 
 simple (but effective) training missions. In these missions you get to stomp around the training 
 grounds, blow stuff up, and maybe even get your first Mech kill. However the training regimen doesn't 
 cover one very important aspect of the game -- your management skills. You aren't "just" one lone 
 Mechwarrior. Instead, you are a lance leader. You start out the game with three lance mates, and 
 you eventually gain another full lance. Your management skills (or lack there of) come into play 
 when hiring these additional warriors (or even letting a couple go) , and buying weapons and even 
 more battlemech chassis. Figuring further into the equation, is choosing which organization you 
 will fight for -- choose the Kell Hounds only if you are an advanced gamer with good experience 
 in Mech's. Choose the wrong company to work for, and you will find yourself unable to pay your 
 light bill if you don't get paid. Also, diplomacy figures in. On every planet you go to, you will 
 have a choice of missions. Some missions you have to play first before you can play others. But 
 choose certain missions over others and you will find yourself suspect. 
  
  There is only one aspect to the game that I don't like. Those of you who have played previous versions 
 of this game will remember that in the Mech Lab, you can customize your mech to carry certain types 
 of weapons over others (I favor energy weapons) . But in Mechwarrior 4, such is not the case. Each 
 battlemch chassis has a predesignated slot that will "only" take missile weapons, energy weapons, 
 or autocannons. But its only a small complaint, because, as you will see, there are all sorts of 
 cool weapons to choose from, including some new ones. 
  
  As for the missions themselves, the game play is immersive and realistic. When you take a hit, 
 your Mech will stumble. Your team mates will report their readiness to you. The graphics are awesome. 
 Overall this is a very solid entry into the Mechwarrior universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lovituralapizda
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2006 4:46 am PT
Review:  i didn't describe anytihng in the game.... because it would have taken too long.
  i said this there though.... i've finished like 75% of all games that ever came. i played ALL GENDERS 
 AND TYPES of games as long as they were either quallity, innovative, inspired or worked hard at.
 
  from all, mechwarrior series are my ALL TIME favourite.
  
  Trust an experienced gamer and buy vengeance, black knight and mercenaries.... pirates moon and 
 the otehrs are much too oldto be bought in 2006, at least not untill you get captured by these 
 3.
  
  they are worth it, only down is the... kind of dated graphics, wich you will forget about when you 
 get into the presentation, storyboard and gameplay.
  
  Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goober_billions
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 1, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  This is the Mechwarrior of all Mechwarriors. I'm a big fan of the series, and this is the best. 
 It got Good graphics, great Gameplay, good voice-acting, and and immersive storyline, Which in 
 the end, you get to choose between joining one of the greatest clan, or starting your own base of 
 operations. It a great ending both ways, though are both hard to acheive. You get to manage your 
 own Mercanary squad, from buying pilots, stealing or buying your Mechs, to what weapons they will 
 use and what role they will play on missions! There are plenty of different ways to go about getting 
 money, and there is even this great side thing you can do that is really fun, it a tournament of 
 Mechs ranging from light mechs to Assualt Mechs (which are big and nasty) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cski00
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 7, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  One of the most definitive mech franchises around, Mechwarrior has been around since the beginning 
 of gaming. Delivering a great branching campaign and the mech customization that has made this 
 series notable, Mechwarrior 4: Mercenaries is well worth it. The story of the game has you in charge 
 of a squad of mercenaries for one of 4 different factions. Small and relatively weak at first, 
 you will eventually grow to be a force to be reckoned with, through recruiting better pilots and 
 the accessibility of better equipment. The story of the game focus on a growing conflict between 
 two vying houses. At the start, you can accept missions from either without worrying about what 
 the other will think. Eventually though, you will be forced to choose a side. There is also infamy 
 and nobility statistics for your squad, which will influence which missions are available to you. 
 The addition of a non-storyline based arena is a good break, and a great way to earn cash. Graphics 
 will vary depending on the computer, but overall, they are very polished. The sound is serviceable, 
 but nothing spectacular beyond that. A great value for what its worth, any mech fan should at least 
 play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uziel126
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 2, 2006 5:37 am PT
Review:  This game is certainly a must for any fans of the BattleTech universe, yet also enjoyable for those 
 just starting out. The game is an excellent first person/ third-person shooter. The difficulty 
 is teh handling of your mech, as movement is hard in this game. I liken it to combat flight simulator 
 without the crashes. While learning how to pilot the mech in this game can be frustrating it is 
 like riding a bicycle, once you learn, it's very hard to forget.
  
  The Gameplay is interesting and the campaign is long enough to keep you occupied for quite some 
 time. Also, should the single player get boring, there is a multiplayer feature which adds to the 
 game's enjoyment level. It can be exhilarating to play with a large group of friends in an ffa 
 match. Replayability is there, since there are literelly hundreds of possible configurations for 
 each game. 
  
  Graphics are a tad sketchy, but then again, it has been around for a while. The sound is well done 
 and certainly isnt lacking much. 
  
  In conclusion, I urge everyone to get this game as it is superb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sponny1
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 4, 2006 3:20 am PT
Review:  the game is great because of its great graphics but though its not as up to date i still love it 
 and i love controlling a mech and if u want to see it through 3rd person well go to the option 
 but if your more suitable with 1st person its okay to that if ure able the survie with you mech 
 with that and the story line is great especially instant gameplay where you could wage war with 
 the clan jade falcon or many other racis 
  
  The gameplay will make u come back for more of the great action but i mostly love the mech building 
 section where u get to change its name and colour and also sloting in your weapon of destuction 
 
  
  this game cost about 50 over dollard in my country because its just plain worth buying it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voltage350z
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Mechwarrior 4 Mercenaries is probobly the game ive played the most out of any game i have ever 
 owned. It is a fun game to play online and with the many downloads for the games online you can 
 increase your mechlab from a mere 30 mechs to over 100, same with the maps.
  
  Graphics wise this game delivers ok graphics, they arent perfect and they probobly could be better, 
 however they are good enough to get the job done.
  
  The sound in this game is pretty good for the most part, each weapon has a different sound, and 
 they dont sound to cheap when they fire.
  
  Over all this game is fun to play online, and has an average single player. But the main experience 
 you get from it is on the online, and with the available downloads for the game, it will keep you 
 interested. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaam
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 17, 2006 6:42 am PT
Review:  Per Normal diffuculty - Graphics turned up to highest quality:
  
  Gameplay/Controls: 9/10
  Controls are as per Vengeance (mouse for torso twist, being better than 
 keyboard or joystick - prefer mouse keyboard combination as joystick alone does not have enough 
 controls and is awkward, using joystick and keyboard, plus mouse gives improved aiming ability 
 over joystick) .
  Gameplay is great - nice to have a branching structure, with two quite different story lines depending 
 on whether you support Steiner or Davion - also really liked the areana play. Regular diffuculty 
 seems just about right for an occasional gamer - you will really struggle in the beginning until 
 you start making the big bugs. Nice variety of missions, though really didn't enjoy the stealth 
 missions that much - really struggled on them.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  Same as per Vengeance though definitely slightly tweaked - still a bit cartoony for my taste and 
 really shows up as blocky when viewed close up, except that . Though it is missing the really nice 
 cheesy FMV and FMV acting / feedback. Just get a picture and a voice. Not nearly as nice.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  Same as Vengeance.
  
  Value: 9/10
  Definitely plenty of value here. The 
 arenas are virtually a game in themselves - highly entertaining. You can also play the campaign 
 at least 4 times, one for each sponsor as there are differences to each one, especially if you 
 adhere to the sponsors requests. Have been through 3 sponsors - once keeping to Steiner (which 
 has two endings) and twice supporting Davion - which had same ending, but had some different missions 
 and some rather interesting news excerpts each time. And there is still the multiplayer to enjoy, 
 even a couple of years on from its original release.
  
  Rent or Buy?
  This game is a good buy - especially for any mechwarrior collector out there.
  
  Reviewers 
 Tilt: 9/10
  A nice edition to the rest of the MW series with a good level of difficulty. Pity about the slightly 
 cartoony look and would still love to see some of the MW3 features implemented on future MW titles 
 like chain fire within one weapons group - being able to adjust weapons groups on rampage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redlineR24
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 3, 2006 3:18 am PT
Review:  This game is a realy nice game. Being a pilot of the Mech is not easy. The game play is so real. 
 You have to shoot tanks, helicopters, airplanes, wartrucks and more. You can also go into water 
 but you will not be able to swim. You can stay in the water for hours and the mech will not be 
 damaged. before driving a mech you can buy for it weapons like bigger laser, machine guns, and 
 rockets. when playing a mission you can go and destroy a building or a factory. after finishing 
 the four missions, there will be a chalenge. To finish a chalange is not easy. there will be about 
 5 more mechs which you have to destroy. if you are the last one standing then you are the winner. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordGoo
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2005 8:53 am PT
Review:  So shall the story continue? I really hope so because it would be nice if here was more.
  
  I think a game like this has strong potential to carry on, with the mercenary way of life, always 
 changing sides, the plot could theoretically twist indefinitely.
  
  I can't stay mad at its shortness for long I just can't I am an old softy for the mech titles. 
 I plan to simply go on demanding that they give me more!!
  
  Economy is very easy in this game its a little rocky to get going but by mid way though the campaign 
 you can sustain 2 full lances with good equipment. Recovery was a snap too. 
  
  What I mean is if one of your guys lost his/her mech it would set you back a little but it helped 
 me fish out the AI that I liked for my style of play. I fired Beowolf after he lost me 3 Mechs. 
 He came with some of the highest starting stats but he had trouble obeying formations he was a 
 rogue.
  
  Blaze on the other hand I had her and she never lost me one mech and she did very well as Secondary 
 lance Commander. A female, persona was my best Lance mate. Anyone that thinks the guys are the 
 best jocks will sorely miss out.
  
  Couple tips.
  
  Dont let low stats fool you, they intuitively learn, and gain experience. Read their descriptions, 
 they tell you what makes them useful. If one says they are instinct, good site. Put them in a light 
 mech with extended sensor range and some speed and you will always know where the enemy is.
  
  If it says they are a real scrapper and like getting in close and decimating the opposition 
 put them in the biggest meanest nastiest Loaded down to the teeth mech you can find and they will 
 likely crush any nearby target.
  
  In fact I didnt even play in my most expensive mech. Heck Id get it blown up and I know it. I 
 stayed in a light Assault Mech most the game. The Long Bow is a great Mech.
  
  If you get in a pinch for money buy a small mech and go a few rounds in Light Jungle Arena.
  
 
  I liked this game a great deal really. It leaves me wanting more and I guess that is okay,
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaethro
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 10, 2005 2:08 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong. Despite the MW4M's brevity and hand of subtle problems, I have to admire the 
 overall feel and creation of the game.
  
  You start (and end as well for that matter) as a Mercenary in the mechwarrior world where houses 
 Davion and Steiner are both competing for domination of the majority of a galaxy as it seems. You 
 start out with a few funds for designing your mech and hiring new cohorts, etc, etc. For most of 
 the campaign the game is action-packed, aurient, and has a very amusing feel to it despite its 
 rigid appearance. You fight in arenas, backstab political figures, defend naval bases; the usual 
 stuff with excellent variance and the feeling of a well put together game (with excellent force 
 feedback controls might I add) . The arena's announcer, as a minor detail I loved, is convincing 
 in his voice-acting (though occasionally repetitive) and even unveils little side plots during 
 matches.
  
  Once you start climbing in capital, however, reaching the top is an easy objective. By the time 
 you are about halfway through the campaign, you will have enough money to buy absolutely everything 
 you would ever want or need. You simply attain funds way too fast. Having everything does not mean 
 the game is not fun anymore, quite the opposite in fact, but it makes you lose any objective other 
 than beating the game. Most of this wealth accumulation problem is caused by the arena.
  
  But the real kicker is when the campaign abruptly ends. It doesn't leave you on a cliffhanger so 
 much as just sort of the feeling of climbing up the mountain and then coming across an unpassable 
 gap and instantly deciding to turn around walk back down. I played the campaign again (seriously, 
 as much as I punching this game around, it is most assuredly a solid title otherwise) and by thoroughly 
 following the scattered storyline I found that the ending was not entirely abrupt but the problem 
 came with the fact that despite the fact that the story was leading up to that moment, the gameplay 
 was not. In the actionous feel of the game it was building up to some all-out war with tons of 
 super powerful mechs at the end; but that never happened sadly.
  
  Do not let me discourage you. Once again on the subject of gameplay, this game is one of the best 
 out right now and if you have a desire to play a game with big smashy robots, this is the one. 
 It has a decent instant action mode and the multiplayer is definitely helpful. The AI isn't the 
 brightest thing in the world, but it definitely poses a challenge for quite a while. The customization 
 process, while tedious, is quite flexible (it isn't comparable to the customization in Armored 
 Core: Nexus, but then again it doesn't take 3 hours to make a mech either) and the variation of 
 weaponry and mech types is pretty good. The campaign simply needed some work.
  
  On a minor note, I don't know if its just my joystick or not but the game seems to lack a dead 
 zone on all three axes, making standing still a very difficult task on a stick. Isn't impossible; 
 just kind of annoying.
  
  Suggested purchasers are people that...
  
  -Need something a bit strategic but with some shooting involved
  -Want to buy a mech game
  
 -Are tired of beating one Armored Core: Nexus level for every four hours put in.
  -Have played the Mechwarrior series before
  -own a PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rabid_Possum
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 1, 2004 3:13 am PT
Review:  I am a huge mechwarrior fanatic, so i love anything mechwarrior i can get my hands on (kenex, models, 
 etc.) . I am writing this column as a person who has maybe played a bit of mechwarrior, but not 
 a huge fan. If i were writing this from my perspective, it would get a 10. But of course, that 
 wouldn't be fair, because not everybody likes this kind of game. Mercenaries is just like Vengeance 
 except that you get much more freedom in the way of getting mechs, weapons, choosing missions, 
 etc.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 10
  
  A great interface, one of the best interfaces of any game i've played. Great controls, feel... 
 everything.
  
  GRAPHICS: 7
  
  Good and nothing more. No showing internal parts, if you're damaged, it shows up as a black scorch 
 mark on the mech with some sparks. OK nondestructible environments. Good enough to get by.
  
  SOUND: 7
  
  Average, with great mech sounds and gunshots and laser. No really good background 
 music, however. Would be great with a heavy rock soundtrack.
  
  VALUE: 9
  
  Campaign will make you go back time and time again to find every mission, mech, etc. Multiplayer 
 is also available, but not many people.
  
  TILT: 10
  
  In my opinion, being a giant mech and shooting everything that moves is very fun and entertaining. 
 A must buy if you enjoy mechwarrior, and recommended even if you don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iggygeneva
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 11, 2003 4:40 pm PT
Review:  You know the team needs a bit of work when the best feature is the force feedback on your joystick!! 
 
  
  The graphics here have been virtually unchanged for years. Buildings have limited detail, and terrain 
 is flat and wide open. Let's get some running water, caves, interactive terrain, ledges that collapse 
 under your feet. I want to be able to walk around inside big ships/structures, that kind of thing 
 These wide open dull maps are becoming very blah...
  
  The UI is really cumbersome too, Instant Action doesn't save your settings, so every time you fail, 
 you have to key in all the settings over again.
  
  It's really hard to figure out what mechs you have in the Mechlab, you can't see all your mechs 
 at once. You have to click the dropdown 8 times to get a heads up view of all mechs. Your mechs 
 also don't reflect the weapons mounted on it. The external mech view always looks the same, you 
 could be knocking out a missle pack on a Catapult that isn't even used!!! What kind of crap is 
 that! The external chassis really need to reflect the equipment mounted on them. 
  
  In the mechlab It would also be nice to see all the equipment you have, even if it was mounted 
 on another mech. I had extra mechs, but unless I stripped them, I couldn't use the stuff on other 
 mechs. The whole UI seems really clunky. Plus in mission setup, you think you're picking a mech 
 and you're really de-assigning it from another NPC. Kind of annoying.
  
  This game ended way too quick, there was no openendedness to it. I finished the plot fast, and 
 then I couldn't explore any other missions on any other planets. Not that it really mattered, because 
 you couldn't really do anything but take missions. Where is the interactivity , I want to walk 
 around and talk to NPC's and stuff, make it really feel like your exploring stuff.
  
  They just took the existing game they've had for years and repackaged it with some monetary systems 
 involved, a couple new chassis, and some new guns. No big deal really, I'm glad I only paid $20 
 for it, If I paid full price I would have felt really ripped off.... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
