-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: MechWarrior 2: Mercenaries
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/mechwarrior2mercenaries/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 10, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.4, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 418 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Pandemic Studios
Genre: Mech Sim
Date:     Sep 30, 1996

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Activision's new sim takes everything that was entertaining about MechWarrior 2 and combines it 
 with fantastic resource management features to create a hybrid that is unmatched in the futuristic 
 sims category. 

 First off, if you're one of the many people who've been writing in asking for our opinion of MechWarrior 
 Mercenaries, let me end the suspense right away. It's all you've been waiting for and more. Activision's 
 new sim takes everything that was entertaining about MechWarrior 2 and combines it with fantastic 
 resource management features to create a hybrid that is unmatched in the futuristic sims category. 

 With that said, let's give the newbies a chance to catch up. MechWarrior 2: Mercenaries is a prequel 
 to Activision's popular MechWarrior 2. As the leader of a crack squad of mercenaries in the year 
 3039, you must accept enough important missions, collect enough cash, and avoid enough political 
 BS to keep your team fitted with the giant living robots they rely on to survive. These 'mechs 
 (short for BattleMechs) are upright Leviathans with more firepower than a fleet of today's tanks, 
 and are used to wage war on many different worlds in the space that you call home. While most mercenaries 
 will tell you that the only thing that matters is who brings home the paycheck, the wise commander 
 will also keep abreast of the overall status of this conflict, making sure never to back a loser 
 for too long, or to back a winner who threatens to bring an unprofitable future to your squad. 

 Although the folks at FASA (the creators of the MechWarrior pen-and-paper roleplaying games) worked 
 hard to put together several strong plots, it's the gameplay in MechWarrior 2: Mercenaries that 
 is so completely addictive. On the sim side, the game has everything that made MechWarrior 2 such 
 a hit. Smooth graphics and animations mix with an intuitive control system (although it's not as 
 easy to learn as it could be) that lets players get the feel for battle firsthand. On top of that, 
 players are required to keep track of new factors like salvage - if you're tricky (in other words, 
 if you don't shoot everything you see into small pieces) you can even get ahold of some Clan mechs 
 - and repair costs that add an entirely new spin to an already challenging game. Worry not, action 
 lovers - a new instant action option lets you bypass all of the new intellectual requirements and 
 jump right into battle at the helm of over 30 classic era 'mechs.  

 MechWarrior: Mercenaries artistic vision is brilliant, but sometimes its execution leaves a little 
 to be desired, considering the advances made in graphics during the year since MW2's release. The 
 entire game is rendered in well-mapped polygons that will give a player with a little imagination 
 a good feel of what it might be like to be on a futuristic battleground in snow, on rock, by day 
 or night. Thanks to cool visual effects like the Thermal Sensors and an amazing particle physics 
 system, laser blasts and missile trails really add to the overall realism of the product. MechWarrior's 
 audio is another split story, combining solid voice acting and sound effects with a soundtrack 
 that doesn't hold up too well through the long listening sessions involved in the average game. 

 In the end, there's an awful lot to like about MechWarrior: Mercenaries, and those who liked the 
 first two games are in for a real treat when they open the shrink wrap on this follow-up. All new 
 AI, an amazing network play system that allows players to host their own multiplayer games over 
 the Internet, and some really great pre-made missions ensure that the game is almost certain to 
 appeal to any fan of action or simulation games.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ces916
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 12, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Truely one of the best 'Mech shooters ever to have been created, no other modern-day game can compare 
 to this classic.
  
  This game has been in my collection since 1996, I have never gotten tired of it. Any fan of the 
 'Mech genre will fall victim to this adictive game. I love this game mostly for the feel of greed, 
 choice of path, money, total power, and the countless modding oppertunites that await!
  
  You can choose to play the campaign as your standard merc soldier, with no responibility but with 
 no chioces, or be your own boss and call the shots; choose extra mechwarriors hire, buy and sell 
 weapons and mechs, and choose the contracts you sign.
  
  Weather you are a pro or not, the game is completely adjustable for the difficulty that is right 
 for you.
  If you are a modder like me, get your hands on a hex editor and start having some REAL fun! Have 
 as much money as you want, jump from level to level, overload your 'Mech with illegal weapons like 
 nukes, rearange the level enviorments, get a 'Mech you normaly wouldn't, do whatever you want!
 
  
  You will love this game; modder, player, campaign, online, I guarantee it.
  You can know all there is to this game in a month, and 12 years later, it can still surprise you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThAdEa82
Rating: 9
Date: May 28, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  I miss this game. From disabling individual areas like mechs arms and legs and then blasting them 
 (which Armored Core 4 doesnt have a decade later) which is stupid... to selecting different companies 
 to work for, this was such a great game. But how the developers of AC4 could overlook or ignore 
 this is beyond me. That feature made the game all the more fun. The graphics were good. I dont 
 know what the person reviewing this game was smoking, but the soundtrack (metal and ambient music) 
 gave the game a rustic feel. Great soundtrack. I can't believe it's been 12 years since it came 
 out. This was the game I spent my time playing before high school and will always be a classic 
 to me. Final fantasy 7 would come out later and steal my attention, moving me forward with video 
 games. Pick it up but dont hold it to today's expectations 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goober_billions
Rating: 7.2
Date: Sep 1, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  This Game I played along time ago, but I remember the hours of fun I had playing it. You get to 
 chose between two factions which was something new at that time, and each one had a completely 
 different set of missions. It was always fun, even when I would lose. You also get the pleasure 
 of commanding your own little squad, you can lead them to victory, or use them to take the brunt 
 of the enemy attacks while you attack safely from a distance. You can also set up your own matches, 
 and you can make yourself invincible if you just want to have a fun time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalisticpain
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 31, 2006 12:32 am PT
Review:  Now i know when you pull it out of the box it isnt anything, it is downright terrible and should 
 never have been released. But that problem is easily fixed, patch it up with all the patches available 
 and you have one killer game.
  
  It is truly excellent, the controlls are very adaptable and responsive, with good players easily 
 getting cokpit shots and being able to salvage the entire mech.
  
  MW2 merc gives a huge replay value form the different paths. Your losing? well save your ass and 
 eject! who cares you lost a few cbills at leats your alive? and stuff whatever the combime had 
 you fighting for, it isnt your war.
  Even if you fail missions there is often other missions to do with money to earn that are results 
 from losing. In one campaing if you lose the first battle, you are then standed by your employees 
 who say their going to get more supplies. Youy then discover a weapons chache worth millions of 
 dollars. 
  
  I have played a demo of MW4 and i have to say i thought this was better. It weapons do a lot more 
 damage and have a significant impact on enemies and yourself, where as in MW4 i found you hade 
 to shoot like 6 volleys of LRM's into the chest complimented with a constant barrage of laser weapony 
 to have any effect.
  
  The difficulty is well spaced and the economy features really let you take controll of your unit 
 and the like.
  
  If your a Mech fan and havent played this you really must, its a standout game and extreemly fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcadmin110
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 27, 2006 4:45 am PT
Review:  Mercenaries was one of my first PC games and what an experience it was, I can still remember the 
 mind blowing opening sequence where your commander gets double crossed and spectacularly blown 
 away, few game intro's since have been as good. As a game Mercenaries was a great introduction 
 into the world of PC gaming as the Super Nintendo entered its twilight.
  
  The main strength of Mercenaries was not the gameplay (as awesome as taking control of a heavily 
 armed mech is) but the story. At first all you are is another mech mercenary looking for work from 
 the rival corporations that span the galaxy while slowly building up your finances and expanding 
 your mech team. Then as the game continues towards the end you are unexpectedly thrown into a war 
 between the now united corporations and the mysterious Clan, fighting to preserve the free galaxy.
 
  
  No doubt fighting inside mech is a reward unto itself, with some of the best graphics I'd seen 
 at the time you got to fight in a multitude of different environments; desert, snow, grass, at 
 night (definitely a favourite) and even on an asteroid in space. Combine the graphics with the 
 sounds of the weapons, mechanical screeching of the mech, the droning of the female computer when 
 a critical system was damaged and a nice soundtrack, you'd quickly work yourself into a bloodlust!
 
  
  Now put me in that Atlas and let's blast the Clan away!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamauldi
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 5, 2006 12:34 pm PT
Review:  The graphics for this game may not too great compared to the newer games today, but it was good 
 during that time when it was new. At least, I can tell what's what.
  
  It's too bad there isn't an option in the game where you can make your Mechs invincible if you 
 want to, and you have to keep on typing down the codes to keep them invulnerable. 
  
  The Mechs are pretty cool to use. They all can carry good and strong weapons, and you can choose 
 what to do with your Mech in the Campaign Menu, too. 
  
  I really like the missions in this game. It gets even more interesting as you progress onward in 
 your file and see harder obstacles coming at you. 
  
  Lastly, the songs are cool enough to hear. I especially like the one that occurs on the very last 
 mission of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 28, 2005 1:08 pm PT
Review:  This was my first Mechwarrior game and only one at that, but it was very memorable. It had a unique 
 storyline and you play as a merc for hire. The graphics aren't bad if you think about it, this 
 game came out around the time of Duke Nukem 3D. The audio is great, a good soundtrack too. There 
 are several campaign modes, you can play as a merc and forget about budgeting (easier) or as a 
 merc commander and weigh your coffers (harder) . There's a good selection of mechs to choose from, 
 but early on in the campaigns you'll be limited to the weakest ones. There's no in-game saving 
 mode, so if you screw up, even if all you have to do is reach your dropship, you have to start 
 all over if you die... this earns it a more difficult rating. Some of the objectives aren't all 
 that clear, and I found myself playing several missions over and over again in a process of trial 
 and error. Overall however, a worthy game. While you're at it, google the subject online and you'll 
 find that a Japanese diary company actually made a mech - no joke. There are clips of it in action 
 online, it'll come in handy for their next imperialistic expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigBaderXIII
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 13, 2004 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Mechwarrior 2: mercenaries was a great game, if not the best of its time. The Gameplay was simple, 
 the driving was easy, I could remember the short-cut keys, and most of all I loved the weapons. 
 This game was easy enough that it didnt make we chuck my keyboard out the window (this actually 
 happened) . The graphics for its time were superb. The sound matched the game in every way. The 
 levels were diverse and BIG. The one thing that I feel detracted from Gameplay was that on some 
 levels the area was big, and flat, and bare (io: lots of nothing) which let enemies run away for 
 about a mile and you had to go find them ( moving at about 15KM an hour, it got boring sitting 
 there) . 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
