-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: MechWarrior 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/mechwarrior3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  4, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 8.2, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 773 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Zipper Interactive
Genre: Mech Sim
Date:     May 31, 1999

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It might seem rough around the edges once in a while, but nevertheless, MechWarrior 3 is a worthy 
 successor to one of the best games of the decade. 

 The greatest feat a science-fiction combat simulation can achieve is to suspend your disbelief for 
 moments or stretches of time and to actually convince you in those instants that you're piloting 
 some sort of incredible military machine. Activision's MechWarrior 2 achieved this feat back in 
 1995. It was one of the pioneers of high-resolution 3D graphics, and beyond that, it was an excellent 
 futuristic combat simulation. Since the MechWarrior series is, for better or for worse, confined 
 to the rules of its source material, FASA's pen-and-paper tactical combat game, the real goal of 
 Zipper Interactive's game is to update its predecessor with state-of-the-art graphics while retaining 
 the action and simulation elements intact. And MechWarrior 3 accomplishes this goal gracefully, 
 even as it tactfully deviates from certain traditions laid down by its ancestors to enhance the 
 depth and complexity of the game. It might seem rough around the edges once in a while, but nevertheless, 
 MechWarrior 3 is a worthy successor to one of the best games of the decade.  

 Of course graphics aren't everything, but it doesn't hurt when a game looks as good as this. The 
 attention to detail is what's especially impressive - although all the different mechs in the game 
 look great, it's the way they move that makes them seem so real. You can see their toes flex, and 
 they leave tracks in the earth and kick up clouds of dust and dirt with each and every step. They 
 topple over slowly and painfully if they lose balance from a powerful attack, and struggle back 
 to a standing position. As they're shot apart in battle, their limbs don't just fall off but rather 
 rip from their sockets, leaving exposed pipes and cables where the arm or leg used to be. Their 
 weapons fire independently and look powerful and are easily distinguishable on the battlefield. 
 Laser weapons pierce their target instantly, while pulse lasers generate a steady stream of concentrated 
 energy. Autocannons are so powerful that your mech recoils as it lets loose each hail of bullets, 
 while your missiles fill the screen with their contrails. Certainly lasers, machine guns, and missiles 
 aren't anything unusual for a science-fiction game, but in MechWarrior 3, these archetypal weapons 
 are in top form, not only because they look great, but also because they are finely balanced with 
 proportional strengths and weaknesses.  

 As they fight, the BattleMechs look right at home in the beautiful, desolate terrain of the aptly 
 named planet Tranquil. Though the hills might look a little blocky sometimes, everything else, 
 like thunderstorms, beaches, ravines, and deserted cityscapes, looks realistic and detailed. You 
 can even see rays of sunlight pierce through the overcast sky, while explosive weapons leave huge 
 craters in the ground. Other special effects, like the fires caused by internal explosions in damaged 
 mechs, as well as the deadly blue swirl of the particle projection cannon, look as good as just 
 about everything else in the game. All the while, the 3D cockpit shudders with every step and every 
 shot. MechWarrior 3's great sound effects make the game feel even more true to life, as each step 
 is accompanied by a resounding, dull thud that perfectly conveys the awesome scale of the machine 
 under your control. Weapons and explosions also sound good, although most of the speech in the 
 game, including your onboard computer and assorted banter between rival MechWarriors, isn't anything 
 especially exciting. The game's soundtrack, while suitably grandiose and serious-sounding, is also 
 a bit of a disappointment after MechWarrior 2 and comes across as a pale imitation of its predecessor's 
 striking orchestral score.  

 But you won't be worried about the music once you're in the game, trying to fend off enemy mechs 
 as well as tanks and stationary defenses. MechWarrior 3 plays similarly to its predecessor by forcing 
 you to compensate for your machine's sluggishness with precision piloting and for its propensity 
 to overheat with deadly aim. Mechs can twist at the torso, but you can also aim and fire easily 
 at any point onscreen by using the mouse. One important new feature lets you magnify the area around 
 your targeting reticle, so that you can strike a target from a much longer range than your eyes 
 can see. Another new trick that works along with this one lets you lock onto specific parts of 
 the enemy mech, so that you can try to disable key weapons systems or internal components. But 
 pinpoint accuracy isn't quite so important if you decide to use an alpha strike, which unloads 
 every weapon on your mech simultaneously. This devastating attack will overheat your mech more 
 often than not, and overheating causes your sensors to malfunction and may cause your mech to shut 
 down or even explode. But fortunately for you, MechWarrior 3 also introduces a coolant flush device 
 that can be used a limited number of times to rapidly dissipate your machine's heat. Together, 
 these abilities make MechWarrior 3 battles tense and exciting, since a quick decision can just 
 as quickly determine the outcome.  

 Most missions also put you in charge of a trio of vehicles that form your mobile field base, which 
 is essentially a pit crew that can be ordered to reload and repair your mech on the battlefield. 
 Although the MFB will try to stay out of the action, it can be destroyed if you aren't careful. 
 So while the MFB is your lifeline, even as it renders the especially powerful BattleTech weapons 
 (which hold very little ammunition) far more practical, it's also an all-new liability. Luckily, 
 you usually won't have to fight alone and can order your lancemates to protect the MFB at the touch 
 of a button. Communicating with your team is simple, and friendly pilots do a good job following 
 orders, even as enemy pilots do a good job trying to put an end to you and your allies alike. Enemy 
 mechs maneuver effectively, changing directions often and dodging and weaving to avoid your attacks, 
 and their aim is good but not so perfect that you can't get away from their guns with some fancy 
 footwork of your own. But being quick on your feet won't keep you alive for long, especially if 
 you're up against several enemies at once, as they'll try to take advantage of their superior numbers 
 by flanking and surrounding you.  

 It's too bad, then, that the campaign is a little too straightforward and short for its own good, 
 with only around 20 missions. Though they're linked seamlessly, the missions aren't terribly unique 
 either, and in light of how good the game looks otherwise, it's disappointing that the campaign 
 wasn't quite as bold or impressive as most everything else about MechWarrior 3. You'll probably 
 end up spending a lot of time in the excellent instant-action mode instead, which you can use to 
 easily set up fights against any number of enemies of any size and strength. You can even choose 
 to fight wave after wave or progressively more challenging opponents, as well as pit yourself in 
 base-attack and base-defense missions. Multiplayer MechWarrior 3 is similarly flexible and allows 
 for both deathmatch and team-play battles, with plenty of opponents guaranteed on Microsoft's Gaming 
 Zone.  

 You could nitpick about how MechWarrior 3's mech lab interface is a little convoluted, making it 
 cumbersome to customize your machine; and it's true that the campaign isn't quite as exciting as 
 it might have been. Long-time fans will also lament the absence of some of the most interesting 
 mech chassis types, like the marauder and the rifleman, which have been quietly discontinued because 
 of legal concerns surrounding BattleTech's borrowing too much from the Japanese animation that 
 inspired it. But these concerns aren't so very important once you find that MechWarrior 3 looks, 
 sounds, and controls better than anything else like it.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: sequekhan
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2009 8:43 pm PT
Review:  What game provides a realistic story, great replayability and firepower, and more importantly, 
 heaps and heaps of fun? You're looking at it.
  
  While I have not played all mech warrior games, I have played the majority of them, and from my 
 experiences MechWarrior 3 is the greatest of them all.
  
  The story is realistic, and reminiscent of Quake in some respects, in that each mission is broken 
 up into segments, like disabling enemy communications, destroying mech labs and capturing key structures, 
 or trying to capture a drop ship. Almost predictably, you will start the campaign by being stranded 
 in an average mech as the majority of your foces are destroyed upon arrival, eventually meeting 
 up with a few other (unique) mech pilots. Towards the end of the game, getting a drop ship becomes 
 your primary mission, as it is the only way back to civilisation. There are enough different environments 
 to keep the player thoroughly entertained, and enough variety in the objectives to make the game 
 seem more real than others of its ilk.
  
  The usefulness of these other mech operators is often questionable, but for the most part enjoyable 
 - they say some funny stuff (as does the enemy in overheard transmissions - "Strawbug!") , and can 
 often be seen doing funny stuff on the battlefield (getting stuck on a corner, limbs moving in 
 strange directions, or even jetpacking up into the stratosphere and not coming back down O_o) . 
 One thing they may do which is unbelievably annoying, funny, and tragic (all at once, btw) , is 
 their uncanny nack for self-destruction, usually when they manoeuvre their mechs under a bridge, 
 clip the head segment of their mech (the weakest part) , and utterly annihilate their mech in one 
 fell swoop. The only thing is to watch where you go, and thus where your lancemates will go. Or 
 just order them to stop so you can do it yourself (my own preference) .
  
  The music may let players down in this installment - there are only two different tracks for the 
 entire game. But the nature of the tracks - not too "in-your-face", empowering, determined, yet 
 at the same time moody and otherworldly scores - are such that it only enhances the gaming experience. 
 It did for me anyway. I would have liked to have had a bit more variety anyway.
  
  Gameplay is simple - after only a short time playing it becomes second nature. Don't get bogged 
 down by the impressive array of buttons as you won't use some of them anyway, in all likelihood. 
 A joystick comes in handy if you have one. Things like alpha strike - stay away from that, unless 
 you are in the colder tundra climes, otherwise you are more than likely to blow up, or at the very 
 least, shutdown. Zoom is useful, and you'll find yourself giving orders to your lancemates (the 
 other mechs in your party) often. If you're playing with the keyboard, you may have to rearrange 
 some keys to make for a smoother playing experience. You can choose to shutdown your mech at any 
 time, use a coolant flush if you need to, or override a shutdown if you are in the middle of an 
 intense firefight. Other options include radar, damage and enemy damage toggles, the ability to 
 rearrange weapon groups, and a whole mountain of other additional extras.
  
  Graphics are ultimately very enjoyable, if a little blocky around the edges. mechs leave behind 
 footprints in the ground, people can occasionally be seen running around buildings, and can even 
 be shot to smithereens, or stepped on. The choice is yours. But it's hard to imagine what a blast 
 from a laser that can destroy buildings in one hit may do to a tiny human. When you enter the range 
 of a missile turret, and look through the zoom, you can watch as it slowly rotates in your direction. 
 Feel every impact of every kind and realise just how real it is when you take every lurching footstep, 
 fire every PPC, get hit by every Ultra AC20. Hear bullets tinkle on your windscreen. Walk underwater 
 and feel how much slower it makes you move. The attention to detail is astounding.
  
  The mechs themselves are vast, and each have their own pros and cons. Some missions call for speed, 
 others for firepower. Generally, te bigger the tonnage, the better. You can only carry six spare 
 mechs, so choose your salvage after each mission wisely. There is also a maximum tonnage for your 
 mobile field units (MFBs) , so don't just grab everything. Also note that most salvage varies and 
 is rarely the same for each playthough. Also note than CLAN equipment is always better than the 
 regular stuff. Load up your mech with heaps of Heat Sinks and a variety of weapons and you should 
 have an wonderful gaming experience. You may also want to consider AMSs or jetpacks too.
  
  There are a variety of difficulty levels, and an instant action mode for those wanting more of 
 a challenge (but is limited by the problem mentioned below) . There is even an invulnerability cheat 
 for the more ham-fisted of us, or for those that need a bit of practice.
  
  Years later, and a few operating systems later, one fatal error keeps recurring, and that is the 
 instant shutdown problem. In the middle of a mission, or more infuriatingly, just before you finish 
 a mission, MW3 may suddenly decide to quit and return you to Windows. There is no fix for this. 
 What I have learned during my time playing the game, is that this problem is more likely to happen 
 when you switch targets - whether it be ally targets (for issuing orders) or enemy targets, I've 
 noticed many a time MW3 resets with a very large targetting reticule (red or blue triangle) on 
 my HUD (heads-up display) . The only way around this is to try again and hope it won't happen. A 
 small problem, but annoying enough to be worth a mention. This still happens after patches have 
 been applied.
  
  Yet, I have still given the game a 10. Why, you may ask. For me, it comes down to a simple choice. 
 I love this game enough that I keep it, and keep coming back to it every few years. If a game is 
 that good, then it's good enough to be a ten.
  
  If you haven't tried it yet, do so, despite the quirks and minor technical problems. You may find, 
 as I did, that it's a diamond in the rough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plantedchaos
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 18, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  Another great game in the Mech-Warrior series! This game has many great features to it. You can 
 choose what type of mech you want. Whether its fast but weak, or slow but powerful. It also has 
 many different weapons to choose from. Long Range Missiles, Machine gun's, Lazers, it goes on and 
 on. 
  You may be thinking that destroying different mech over and over again will get boring fast. Well 
 your wrong! Every encounter is different. The Enemy might run up to you and unload some machine 
 guns in your face. Or they might shoot at your legs, knocking you down. And on top of this you 
 have three fellow teamates to command. Each with there own personality and mech's.
  On top of all this, there is an online mode. Battle it out with your friends, make a clan. I recommend 
 this came to any shooter fan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamVH1984
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Mechwarrior 3 is an old game. None the less, it is still an awesome game. A lot of it is better 
 than a lot of modern games. 
  
  Gameplay-I spent a lot of time playing this game. The story is really good and I can still remember 
 it. "It is the 21st century and mankind is once again at war." I haven't played this game for about 
 2 years and I can still remember that line. There are a lot of mechs to choose from. They all are 
 a lot different and I have my personal favorite (Thor) . There are also a lot of levels. They have 
 varied objectives in the campaign. Some of them are a bit too hard though. There are a lot of memorable 
 moments because it is so cinematic. The game doesn't have a splitscreen but it is still fun to 
 play with a friend or brother. You can do a quick instant action match with two players even though 
 it's only single player. My brother and I used to command different areas of the mech. I always 
 steered and operated most of the mech. My brother was the gunner. Good times. You will seriously 
 have some good times playing this. 
  
  Graphics-For a 1999 game, this looks incredible. The mechs are extremely detailed and overall cool 
 looking. I have seen a lot of rip-off games that just have **** mechs. The environments are a little 
 blocky though. Great smoke and explosion affects.
  
  Sound-The voice acting is really really good. The mech sounds are really good too. The music is 
 right on with the game too. My only complaint is that sometimes the sound just cuts out all together.
 
  
  Value-Even though this is only a single player game, you can still easily play two player and have 
 a good time. The campaign is long and you can play it again too. It is really fun too which is 
 the main thing. You will want to play this.
  
  Mechwarrior 3 is an awesome game. It is one of my best computer games. I recommend getting this 
 even in 2006. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamegaman
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 22, 2006 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Honestly in this entire series, MechWarrior 3 and the expansion Pirates Moon, these two games both 
 have come out on top of all its predecessors and the current releases in the 4th series. The great 
 thing about MW3 is that when compared to its older brother which hit the streets only a 3 years 
 earlier, the graphics were right on time for the evolution of visual quality in gaming. While things 
 have a bit of that blocky look to them, I think the graphics are the least of the worries. The 
 gameplay is fun, the mission mode is prett linear though and simple, mind you it can also be trick 
 at times and requires some strategy. The freedom to completely customize your mechs with whatever 
 weapons you want gives the advantage over other MechWarrior games. I found the ease of use with 
 setting up controls on a joystick really easy too, and the controls can be really simple if you 
 tinker with them for a while. The storyline is kind of bland, like Pirates Moon but that is not 
 the point of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaam
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 4, 2006 4:20 am PT
Review:  Even though there isn't that much to look at - what there is, is stunning, and out of all the mech 
 games it is still one of the best looking and the one that works the best.
  
  Graphics wise - so much nicer than the mech 4 range - the mechs look better, landscape is so much 
 more realistic, and while weapon effects might not be as good, it is nice to see the landscape 
 taking damage.
  
  Add to it the great cut scenes that give the mission details - simply superb - still the best to 
 date.
  
  Playability - missions are pretty much the norm, ranging from destroy to protect. Considering the 
 game etc, didn't think there was much you could change, However Mech4 Mercs sures goes a long way 
 to proving that you can change the spin on it.
  
  Mechs - love the way that nothing is totally hardcoded, like the mech4 games - makes more sense 
 in a way. Also love the way that you can move the reticule around the mech, as though you are actually 
 moving the arms - yet again a bit more realistic.
  
  Difficulty - just change the level of difficulty to get the right challenge.
  
  Learning Curve 
 - easy to difficult - easy to play, difficult to properly master - especially if you want to play 
 online. Things like DFA are not that easy to pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barkera0
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2005 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Introduction: Mech Warrior 3. One of the already great Mech Warrior games. This is a good game 
 without a doubt but there could also be some improvements. This game is as good as the previous 
 Mech Warriors and you don't need to start from the first one to play this game. 
  
  Graphics: 9/10 
  The Graphics in this game are quite good. They could be improved though. One 
 area of improvement would be when you fire your weapons. Sometimes you can barely see them and 
 they are not that animated. Some strong points are that all the Mechs look fantastic and all really 
 different. There are also some interesting buildings around they look really good. 
  
  Sound: 8/10 
  The sound on this game can be quite dramatic at some points but sometimes too soft 
 or similar. A lot of the levels have quite dramatic or appropriate music. Others the music is too 
 soft and repetitive. There is also good sound when the Mechs are walking around. There is also 
 some good music in multi player mode. 
  
  Gameplay/Controls: 9/10 
  The controls on this game are quite good but when you first learn how to use them they can be a 
 little complicated. Most of the controls will take a little practice to master but some will come 
 on very easily. 
  The gameplay involves you walking around in this robotic mech creature. You can equip it with weapons 
 or just choose from over 30 types of mechs. Each with their own pros and cons.. Most missions have 
 you go after a target, or more, to destroy. However a few missions have you rescue some one.
  
  Replay Value: 7/10 
  Once you have finished this game there is very little to come back and 
 do again. Some of the best things to do again are trying to find different strategies to win a 
 level or getting a better time. But there is also a multi player mode as well as other challenges 
 out of the main campaign. 
  
  Challenge: 10/10 
  This is a very challenging game and will keep you entertained for ages. But it is not so difficult 
 that it is impossible. There are many challenges and sometimes you will have a lot of trouble but 
 after practicing a few times you will be really good at it. 
  
  Rent or Buy? 
  This game is a good buy. There is a lot to do and will keep you entertained. But I would still 
 recommend renting it and seeing how it is and then buying if you enjoy it like I have. 
  
  Closing Comments: 8/10 
  This game is a good game. No doubt there. But whether you like this 
 game or not is a matter of self opinion. I loved this game but there still could have been a few 
 improvements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4rc4ng3L
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 16, 2005 10:49 pm PT
Review:  Usually i would write a huge long speech was i love this game so much, why i think you should all 
 rush out and buy it and play it until your eyes are red and your brain seizes up.... but i wont!! 
 Its simple, this game provides everything you need, eye candy, absorbing gameplay that will keep 
 you coming back for more time and time again, what it lacks in quantity it makes up for in shear 
 quality. Multiplayer is a dream come true for true battletech fans. Not a dull moment from the 
 installation until the time you dump your hard drive, because you will never want to uninstall 
 this monumental game ever, PERIOD!!! if you love mech games, you should most definitely have this 
 in your collection!! Instant classic.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rabid_Possum
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 11, 2005 1:33 am PT
Review:  If you're a mechwarrior fan, buy this game immediately. I have played Mechwarrior 3, Mechwarrior 
 3 Pirates Moon, Mechwarrior 4, Mechwarrior 4 Black Knight Expansion Pack, and Mechwarrior 4 Mercenaries, 
 and let me tell you, this game is the truest to the Mechwarrior series as anything else you're 
 going to buy. This game has all the classic mechs, from the small Firefly to the devastingly powerful 
 Daishi. 
  
  GAMEPLAY: 10
  
  Excellent controls and customization screens are easy to use, even though it may seem a bit overwhelming 
 at first. The mechs just feel right, especially when you go to a light, fast mech to a lumbering 
 assault mech, the speed and manuverability change can really shock you. The mechs are all very 
 well balanced, no mech being less important than the other. 
  
  GRAPHICS: 7
  
  I bought this game in 2004 and boy this game's graphics are awesome for when it was made. Great 
 mech detail (even better than the new games) , weapon animations, and mech animation. The game's 
 graphics are old, which can show up in the terrain, which isn't too great and pretty sparse, but 
 it's still great. When you hit a mech, their armor actually falls off and if you hit a part enough 
 wires and whatnot can actually start showing, showing severe damage in that area. Not like the 
 newer mechwarriors where armor just turns black and starts sparking.
  
  SOUND: 8
  An average soundtrack combined with awesome weapon and mech sounds. The soundtrack is actually 
 absent in some parts of the games, but that's ok, since you'll be focusing on piloting the mech 
 mostly. There are also voiceovers which sound great for how long ago they were made.
  
  VALUE: 9
  
  With no multiplayer, the value of this game drops, but the campaign is interesting 
 and will have you playing again and again, and the instant action allows for endless mech customizaton 
 (did i mention the millions of combos you can outfit your mechs with?) . 
  
  TILT: 10
  
  A great mech simulator which any mechwarrior fan or anyone remotely interested in giant robot fighting 
 machines should pick up and play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Savages_Wolf
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 31, 2004 7:43 am PT
Review:  Im an experienced Mechwarrior and have been playing Mech games from Mechwarrior 2 Mercenaries up 
 to Mechwarrior 4 Mercenaries. I just finished the single player campaign of mechwarrior 3 and I 
 would have to say im fairly pleased with it. Gamespot said that it was short but I found it to 
 be rather long, there is 4 different operations each consist of up to 5 or 6 missions plus there 
 is a few more missions after the last operation. I found the campaign story line to be fun and 
 enjoyable to play. My only complaint would be that the second to last mission was the hardest for 
 me atleast. I only had 1 problem while playing it which was minor. A few of my lancemates in the 
 game wouldnt cross a bridge and I had to go back and eventually they would cross it, minor problem 
 no biggy AI is never perfect. The online portion of the game is enjoyable as well. If your not 
 use to mech games the driving might be a bit of a hassle because there is a lot of controls dealing 
 with the torso and movement speed etc. Ive played the game useing a joystick that worked well for 
 moving my mech around and torso twisting but was hard to aim at people. I also played the game 
 just useing a keyboard and mouse. Used the keyboard to acell forward and backward and turn left 
 to right and the mouse to aim. I found that way to be easyer for completeing singleplayer. All 
 in all, the graphics arnt bad and the game is fun, if your a mech fan, dont miss out on this game.
 
  
  Wolfy
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigBaderXIII
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 13, 2004 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Mechwarrior 3 is a game that for its time was just ok. The graphics were sub par. They were in 
 fact so granulated that it became interesting to watch them. The mech driving was slow, tedious, 
 and rather hard. In previous games the driving was much easier, and I feel added to the game. Not 
 so here. In fact that was one of the main drawbacks. Another thing, in the last games I was able 
 to use the keys to drive/fire/move, but in this game, It becomes too hard to actually remember 
 how to do things. So to some that up: Gameplay and graphics sucked. The replay value was, if anything, 
 so bad that it would require an edict by a god to get me to play it again. I feel that it was one 
 of the worst games I ever played. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
