-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: MechWarrior 4: Vengeance
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/mechwarrior4vengeance/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 30, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 8.7, 42 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 994 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: FASA Studio
Genre: Mech Sim
Date:     Nov 23, 2000
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's a fantastic introduction to the MechWarrior series for those who haven't yet discovered it, 
 and should have enough depth to keep veterans involved for a long time. 

 The MechWarrior series is probably one of the most recognizable in computer gaming. Based on the 
 Battletech pen-and-paper tabletop game, the series has become more popular on the computer than 
 the original game ever was. The Battletech license has bounced between developers over the years, 
 but with the fourth game in the series, it has finally come home. MechWarrior 4: Vengeance was 
 developed by designers from FASA, the company that originated the board game and developed the 
 Battletech virtual reality centers, where you could actually sit in a large capsule and play a 
 multiplayer computer game with other similarly outfitted combatants. While MechWarrior 4 has returned 
 to its roots in this sense, the latest action-packed addition to the venerable series is actually 
 a departure from the previous games. It can be dangerous to meddle with a successful franchise, 
 but in the case of MechWarrior 4, the changes are for the better.   

  The MechWarrior series focuses on combat between mechs, which are giant mechanized robots with 
 human pilots. You control one of these mechs from a first-person (or third-person) perspective. 
 Mechs come in different sizes and are armed with a variety of weapons, but the point is always 
 the same: to blow things up. MechWarrior games are more complicated to play than shooters because 
 of the skill required in piloting the mechs, but they aren't as technically involved as some pure 
 military simulations are. In this respect, MechWarrior 4 does a good job of emphasizing action 
 without compromising the basic military simulation feel. It's a difficult balance, but MechWarrior 
 4 pulls it off.   

  The graphics in the game are absolutely superb. A configuration utility lets you choose the exact 
 options that will maximize the frame rate on a given machine, and those with a decent processor 
 and a fast video card can enjoy beautiful terrain, detailed mechs, and spectacular explosions and 
 weapon effects. It's been less than two years since the last game in the series was released, but 
 MechWarrior 4 is still a significant step forward, graphically. The visual impact of the game is 
 heightened by the fact that the mission maps are varied and appropriately decorated with trees, 
 buildings, and the like. This sort of terrain looks much better than the relatively desolate maps 
 of MechWarrior 3. Also, because of the addition of smaller vehicles such as tanks and missile launchers, 
 MechWarrior 4 effectively conveys the sense that you're piloting something really enormous. In 
 short, the graphics really enhance the game.   

  MechWarrior 4's audio effectively supports the game's stunning visuals with appropriate sounds 
 of missiles launching, lasers, and a range of other effects that sound believably like futuristic 
 weapons. You'll also notice the different sounds made by the mechs as they walk over different 
 terrain like snow, desert, or swamp. If the game's audio has a weakness, it's that your lancemates 
 who accompany you in battle aren't very active on the comm frequencies, and the lack of radio chatter 
 makes the single-player campaign sound somewhat sterile. There are scripted broadcasts during the 
 missions, but they only partially solve this problem. Of course, this isn't an issue in the game's 
 multiplayer mode.   

  MechWarrior 4's predecessor was criticized because its single-player campaign was limited to about 
 20 missions, so the campaign was short and forgettable. This new installment has an expanded campaign 
 that contains more than 30 missions in a variety of environments. You play as the sole heir of 
 the House Dresari, and you are tasked with restoring Davion rule in your homeworld of Kentares 
 IV. Starting from a secret base on a moon orbiting the planet, the campaign takes you through arctic, 
 alpine, desert, and swamp environments before ending in a series of titanic clashes in an urban 
 jungle. The cutscenes between missions are acted out fairly well and move the story along nicely, 
 while the various lancemates available to choose from have well-developed personalities and notable 
 strengths and weaknesses in combat. The key to the campaign is salvaging destroyed enemy hardware 
 as you go along so that little by little you get to design new mechs for use in subsequent missions. 
 The pace of salvage ensures that you won't have the really big mechs available to you until you 
 need them. There is a good mix of offensive, defensive, and recon missions during the campaign, 
 all with varied objectives, but none of them are particularly difficult. Experienced MechWarriors 
 might be somewhat disappointed at the ease of the campaign, even on the highest difficulty level. 
    

 One of the biggest attractions of MechWarrior and the Battletech universe is being able to design 
 your own mech and to test it against those designed by others in the proving ground of multiplayer 
 combat. In MechWarrior 4, those who step into the mech lab to design their own mechs will find 
 one significant change from the previous MechWarrior games: A mech chassis is not quite the blank 
 canvas it was before. Instead, MechWarrior 4 restricts you to choosing from certain weapons on 
 particular mechs by differentiating between types of weapon hard points. For example, lasers can 
 now be placed only on laser hard points, and these hard points are restricted by size as well. 
 A mech may have plenty of space overall but not have the correct type of hard point big enough 
 to mount a gauss cannon.   

  This is a significant departure from previous MechWarrior games, which essentially let you equip 
 a mech however you wanted as long as you didn't exceed the chassis' maximum weight allowance. Any 
 weapons would fit on your chassis, and the balance was dependent on other players being able to 
 design their own mechs to counter yours. MechWarrior 4's system imposes a certain level of balance 
 from the outset, so some mech designs that worked in previous games won't be available in this 
 installment. This is somewhat similar to FASA's approach in its virtual reality Battletech game, 
 where mech selection was limited to a specified set of designs. But the game still comes down to 
 building a better mech, and there is plenty of room to experiment. Bad mech designs will still 
 be punished by skillful players.   

  Players who accept this conceptual change will find MechWarrior 4 to be a superlative multiplayer 
 game. Even players using a relatively slow 56k dial-up connection will find themselves able to 
 participate in massive 16-player battles without much noticeable lag. The game's multiplayer support 
 is excellent, and joining a game is as simple as finding a server with a low-enough ping and connecting 
 to it. There are many game types to choose from, with one of the most popular being team attrition, 
 where two teams of mechs score points for killing each other and inflicting damage within a given 
 time limit. Another is team destruction, where the focus is on kills only. There are other popular 
 multiplayer games such as capture the flag and king of the hill, and jumping into a game is easy 
 as long as there are openings in the game session. The multiplayer mode is definitely the high 
 point of MechWarrior 4.   

  Besides the changes in the way the mechs are constructed, MechWarrior 4's mechs seem somewhat easier 
 to pilot than those in the previous MechWarrior game. While there is definitely a learning curve 
 to MechWarrior 4, new players will find that it's easy to get used to the controls. Nevertheless, 
 combat in MechWarrior 4 is anything but a mindless shootout - it strikes a virtually perfect blend 
 of pure action and simulation. Combat is fast, furious, and intense, but shrewd tactics and skillful 
 piloting will greatly increase your longevity on the battlefield. And even inexperienced players 
 can enjoy the team games, since having support from friendly mechs makes it easier to avoid being 
 picked on - and even the greenest mech pilot can score the occasional kill by hunting down someone 
 who's already been crippled by the opposing team. Regardless of your skill level, since destroyed 
 mechs immediately respawn at full strength, you'll always see plenty of action.   

  The MechWarrior games have advanced far beyond their roots in the pen-and-paper game to carve out 
 a large following among computer gamers. MechWarrior 4 makes it easier for new players to get involved 
 but still preserves the essential elements that make fighting in these giant robots so intense 
 and so much fun. It's a fantastic introduction to the MechWarrior series for those who haven't 
 yet discovered it, and it should have enough depth to keep veterans involved for a long time.  
   
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (20 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: william623
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2008 10:43 pm PT
Review:  I love the feature between battle mech in battle field, laser beam shooting, projectiles, supreme 
 artillery, the complete the campaign. i already play almost 10 times already, veteran mode or brutal 
 mode already done playing many time, but i didn't feel so born in this game cause very rare feature 
 similar with this Mechwarrior4: Vengeance. But this Mechwarrior franchise feel looks like will 
 done developed. It had been a long time to launch the brand new mechwarrior version. i hope the 
 Mechwarrior 5 or new version Mechwarrior will launch, giving us all pilot (Gamer: Fans of Mechwarrior) a 
 chance to handle the brand new Daishi or Mad Cat MK2 (Mech) and new weapon like advance Gause Rifle (Mech 
 railgun projectiles) to battle in new AI enemies, stronger than any version AI Mechwarrior. MechPilot, 
 ready to roll out!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackfnBurton
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  The original Mechwarrior was the game that prompted me to make the move from consoles to PC gaming 
 back in 1989 and I haven't looked back since. The Mechwarrior series has been through several iterations 
 that have both pleased and angered fans of the Battle Tech board games on which it is based. 
 
  
  I have never played Battle Tech and generally am not a fan of board games so I carried no such 
 baggage concerning the Mechwarrior series. My interest in giant fighting robots is well documented, 
 and a chance to actually stomp around in them and destroy things with them on my PC was irresistable 
 and remains so. 
  
  Mechwarrior 4 marks something of a departure for the series, as significant changes were made to 
 the way you allocate resources and weapons systems when designing your mech. Purists were outraged 
 and I will admit it took some getting used to but you do get used to it. 
  
  Gameplay is as thrilling and engaging - if not more so - than previous titles and the graphics, 
 while no longer state of the art were stunning at the time and still hold up sufficiently to keep 
 the game playable for the time being. 
  
  Like previous titles in the series, the single player campaign is somewhat mundane but is useful 
 for familiarizing yourself with the different Mech types, how they are best used and controlled. 
 You can try to play this game with a keyboard and mouse and some are quite good at it - but I'd 
 suggest a good flight controller - you'll never go back. 
  
  Fans of this series, like myself continue to clamor for another sequel and while Microsoft throws 
 a bone once in a while it isn't looking hopeful for the near future so if you haven't already take 
 this one for a spin and see what you think. 
  
  If you hate it then you were never meant for giant robot fighting. Not all of us are. LOL But if 
 you get it, and you understand, and you see how giant fighting robots can change your life then 
 join us and beg Microsoft for a sequel. 
  
  Somewhere up there in his Ivory Tower, Bill Gates and the Master Control Program will undoubtedly 
 hear us someday. LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LauLS
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 1:42 am PT
Review:  This was the first Mechwarrior series I played; I only play MechCommander 1 and 2 before that. 
 MechCommander was fun but I never had the chance to drive a Mech, it was just controlling them 
 and plans some the strategy and executes them. So, the reason I brought this game was just to try 
 to feel the excitement of driving a Mech. This game successfully makes driving a huge 100 ton machine 
 fun and exciting.
  
  The gameplay was hard but fun. Even I finished the entire mission in "Elite" mode; I still could 
 not control a Mech such as driving a car in reality. This is because I bad at it but I do enjoy 
 feeling of controlling a Mech and leading a team of Mechs against enemies Mech. It was fun when 
 I did manage to destroy them. Seeing their Mechs blow up was so relives and satisfy when I play 
 the single campaign. 
  
  For me, I used more thinking than skills to finish the single campaign. I used timing, planning, 
 my firepower, rather than my skill of controlling a Mech to win. I don't think I can use a ShadowCat 
 Mech to kill a MadCat Mech. Although, in one part of the game, I did manage to kill a Catapult 
 Mech using ShadowCat Mech.
  
  The storyline was straight forward; I could not decide what I wished to do. I just needed to finish 
 the entire mission to finish the game but that is a small part of the game in the end that I needed 
 to decide what to do. I hope if there is MechWarrior 5, it gives me a world map and let I decide 
 what to do in the next attack such as in Total Was series.
  
  Overall, this game did very well to satisfy my imagination of driving a huge machine and attack 
 another huge machine. I really hope that is MechWarrior 5.
  
  Enjoy the game!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowdancer96
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Looking back, it's apparent which direction Microsoft was preparing to go with it's gaming division. 
 The leap from Mechwarrior 3 to Mechwarrior 4 was jarring of a lot of veterans (myself included) . 
 But for those willing to play the game the intended way (with a Precision Pro joystick!) it was 
 a thrilling and rewarding experience that emulated the feel of piloting a mech. This was tempered 
 somewhat by the more restrictive mech construction (finally doing away with the Classic Battletech 
 construction rules) . Weapons were now mounted in groups and ate up space dedicated to certain types, 
 such as ballistic, energy, or missile. Battles often take place between Battlemechs, Tanks, Helicopters, 
 Static Defenses, Battleships, Bombers, Hovercraft, and more. Mission objectives run a wide range 
 of goals, including base assault, defensive missions, raids, scouting missions, and more. Combat 
 is usually given a good purpose and context. Often you will work with a squad of up to three other 
 members, who you may issue orders to. You are able to customize and assign each squad member a 
 mech from your garage. The AI is pretty faithful about following your orders, though they're not 
 afraid to shoot through you to get at their targets. They also tend to jump in your line of fire 
 at an inopportune moment.
  
  The only major knock I have with this game are the truly awful cutscenes. Each is a painful attempt 
 to inject some story and meaning in the game; but consist mostly of talking heads in a tiny window 
 on the briefing screen. it was a busch league move in an otherwise triple-A performance.
  
  This series (and much of the game engine) eventually jumped ship from the PC to the more fertile 
 shores of the console in the form of Mech Assault. With the IP in limbo with the decline of FASA 
 it's hard to say if the series will ever see another launch. For me, though, the Mechwarrior series 
 is what brought me into the world of giant killer robots, and I'll look back fondly on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_blue
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 20, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  Mechwarrior IV Vengenace is set in the popular battle tech universe where vast space empires field 
 Mechs (giant robots with alot of firepower) in their wars.
  
  Offcourse the backstory to the battletech universe is much deeper and is very interesting but MechWarrior 
 IV takes place on only a singItsplanet and its orbiting moon.
  
  You play ian dresari and your family is the rightful ruler of Kentares IV however your cousin william 
 dresari launches a coup with the backing of the larger steiner faction. The coup succeeds and you 
 vow revenge and to take back what is yours and so the stage is set for MechWarrior IV.
  
  Its not entirely a good story but one to give you a reason to keep playing, a few parts are quite 
 poor noticeably the 'save the sister' part which made me cringe but it does present at least one 
 choice and consequence scenario much later in the game of either saving the sister or going after 
 military cache of mechwarriors to use in the final mission and speaking of missions theres alot 
 of them in the singleplayer campaign, 7 ops with 26 missions in total which presents quite a lengthy 
 game even just for singleplayer campaign let alone the instant action option.
  
  The mission briefings are made so that you select a mission you get a series of objectives and 
 nav points on a map which tell you what might occur and the characters (played by actors) are talking 
 to you (and your character talks back to hem) in the corner, i must say some of the acting is quite 
 good, other ones are quite poor so its a mix bag.
  
  Before you undertake a mission you can pick your own mech out of the ones you have managed to salvage 
 from previous missions (usually destroying the odd enemy mech will suffice) or have completed a 
 mission were the reward would be some new mechs.
  After you select a mech and your 'lance mates' (your team which can sometimes be up to three) you 
 can also customise the mechs, this includes a choice of paint - some are pretty neat , then theres 
 the slightly more complicated task of balancing your mech with armour, armour type, heat sinks 
 anti missile systems, jump jets , engine speed and a plethora of different weapons and different 
 weapon types.
  
  Needless to say theres a hell of alot of choice and it can be quite addicting just fine tuning 
 your mech so its has the best possible choices fitted, and is suited to a specific mission, for 
 example in the artic missions your not going to want to worry much about your mech overheating 
 (which results in a temporary loss of control which can be quite unnerving if theres a huge fight 
 going on around you) so you may choose to fine tune your mech to have no heat sinks, wereas in 
 the desert missions this would be a huge problem so you'll want to up the heat sinks, however everything 
 needs to be balanced because different mech chassis (light medium heavy etc) have a limited number 
 of tonnage they can support and everything takes up valuable space/weight on a mech so you gotta 
 think carefully what you want!
  
  And then theres the firing sequence controls, once youve added all your weapons to the mech you 
 can select in what order they will be fired or if theyre all fired in a group, this can be useful 
 if you want say small lasers to fire first then press a button switch to missiles etc, i usually 
 just divide up the heavier weapons from the intial quick recharging laser based weaponrary so i 
 dont overheat my mech to quickly in a fight.
  
  During singleplayer the intial missions your in a weedy little mech and eventually have to face 
 down a few mediums and heavy mechs before you upgrade to something better, and eventually end up 
 owning the best dam mechs on the planet, so the singleplayer can be quite challenging at times 
 too. The combat itself is extremely fun, some of the fights especially with groups of enemies can 
 be very frantic running around, jump jetting, going behind cover, your mech has quite a few operational 
 controls too for example the rotating upper chassis can enable you to fire aat the side whislt 
 running in another direction which can be quite helpful.
  Furthermore you can also target specific parts of a rival mech if your a good shot, hellspawn mechs 
 for example have a rocket launcher mounted on their shoulder which you can completely destroy eliminating 
 whatever weapons they had placed there, or you could go for a mechs legs to slow them down, blast 
 of their arms etc, all the damage information is displayed in the radar depending on what your 
 target is, green is at full health for a part but eventually during a fight you'll see a mech target 
 go fro mgreen to yellow, to orange to red then flashing dark red signifying a part is nearly destroyed 
 - black meaning that part has been.
  And eventually offcourse you'll score a kill and a mech will fall over to the floor and you'll 
 see its reactor blow.
  
  Now whislt the game is extremely fun the graphical presentation has taken a hit over the years, 
 it still looks acceptable if the terrain and sky is incredibly UNdetailed, the mechs themselves 
 look ok, abit too blocky by todays standards but the animation is still pretty decent.
  
  The music for the game is pretty good, some very nice tracks in the game 'closing video b,' 'armed', 
 'steiner defeat' and 'panorama 'just for example, other tracks are much more suited to the occasionally 
 intense fights you'll experience during the game, such as wednesday 7 (played during installation) 
 and 'core'.
  The sound effects are also acceptable, nothing will particulary stand out offcourse but you'll 
 easily tell the difference between ballistic based weapons, missile based weapons and the laser 
 weapons.
  The acting as I said is a mix bag and thus the voice overs are too, the lance mates are all fine 
 but some of the voice overs are pretty poor during the briefings.
  
  The AI of enemy mechs and in general is pretty solid, I havent witnessed the AI either of my lance 
 mates or the enemy do anything particular stupid or get lost even in the dense urban maps, the 
 only problem ive had is that sometimes my lance mates would follow me even if i gave an order for 
 them to do so but this is a very rare occurence.
  
  So overall id say MechWarrior IV is a great game, its aged ok graphically not so well but the core 
 gameplay is still very fun, and its cheap these days too on various budget labels so worth picking 
 up , even just for the singleplayer portion of the game which is both lengthy and at times quite 
 challenging with enough variation in objectives and even if you fail a certain objective it might 
 not quite be the end of a mission, shame the story isnt too great but as I said presents a good 
 excuse as any to stomp around in a battlemech.
  
  Pros:
  .Interesting setting , this is battle tech afterall.
  .Excellent customisation options for your 
 acquired mechs.
  .The combat is very fun.
  .Lengthy singleplayer campaign
  .Some missions and firefights can be quite a challenge
  .Music and voiceacting is in general 
 very good.
  .Competent AI displayed by both team mates and enemies.
  
  Cons:
  .Graphics are pretty poor - theyve aged alot
  .Only 1 mission in the entire game that has choice 
 and consequence (save the sister or go for the battlemechs!??!)
  .Storyline is uninvolving and rather boring at times.
  .Only 8 mechs in instant action fights 
 (2 teams of 4 max) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmb34
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 20, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  It is time to give this game a next gen make over, though in it's time I considered this game one 
 of the best graphically made games. I have lost track how many hours I have involved playing this 
 game and countless times beating the campaign. Amazingly this game ran well back then on my dell 
 with a 1ghz processor and 32 meg ati graphics card , now playing on a E6600 w/ 2 gig ram and 8800 
 gts and not a problem. This is one game that I will always have around as long as I can still run 
 it on whatever system I have, I highly recommend it for its replayability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenoXV
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 3, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  The game pwns and its good for any new gamer thats new to the Mech Warrior series but only thing 
 is, Microsoft got kinda greedy with the Mech Warrior 5, Mech Assault . They made it for xbox and 
 not PC. Hopefully thell make it for PC soon but for now Mech Warrior 4 is good for starters that 
 are new to the Mech Warrior series. Also dont forget theres a site called www. mektek. com that offers 
 awesome new expansions for this game. New units, new maps and all kinds of other new toyz. Before 
 Mech Assault, this game was the best Mech Warrior game of all time. And in many true gamers eyes 
 it still is because Microsoft has proved one again they don't care about their gamers when telling 
 us they have no more ideas for the Mech Warrior series but then they up and make Mech Assault for 
 xbox witch is Mech Warrior 5. But is it for PC? nope or not yet anyways. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kazuma89
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 18, 2006 5:37 pm PT
Review:  It missed a lot of things from its prequel. It didn't feel like I was in the cockpit, the ability 
 to look around in the cockpit has been removed. Also, the interior looks horrible in comparison 
 to MechWarrior 3 where there would be all kinds of instruments lighting up, here, you would only 
 find low-res circuit like surfaces and a car sized instrument panel. You can't move your arms indepent 
 either, which also removes a lot of the battle experience.
  The customisation of your mech is limited, you may, for an example, only place missile weapons 
 in the left torso, and ballistic type in the right.
  In MechWarrior 3, everything, including ammunition, could be placed in the right leg if you wanted 
 to. You knew where all the parts of your mech were placed, and knew what parts to protect.
  Something positive is the increased number of vehicles you'll be fighting, it just feels good to 
 blow them up.
  MechWarrior 3 felt more realistic.
  
  MechWarrior4, including all sequels, wasen't what I was looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lovituralapizda
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2006 4:40 am PT
Review:  the deck says it all.... i like ABSOLUTELLY all game genders and types.... as long as it is either 
 innovative, worked hard at or inspired.
  I don't feel like writing at this review till saturday next week or something, because there are 
 too many things to write about... i'll write this... the game is very old and graphics may seem 
 dated... but since i played it when it came out it made a big mark on my heart. graphics and effects 
 were unbelievable back then.
  thing is... you'll be captured by the storyboard, presentation and gameplay that you'll forget the 
 graphics.
  
  trust and experienced gamer and buy this one.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnlivedPhalanx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2006 7:09 pm PT
Review:  MechWarrior 4: Vengeance is the latest installment of the MechWarrior franchise from FASA and Microsoft. 
 Set in mid 3050's the story revolves around the hostile takeover just after a long tension period. 
 Fans of Battletech will remember this time as just being after Clan Wolf's epic Trial of Refusal 
 with Clan Jade Falcon. After both clans were significantly damaged, Archon Katrina Steiner granted 
 refuge to the remaining members of Clan Wolf. Following just shortly after these events, Steiner 
 forces occupy Kentaries IV, formerly the home of the Dresari family. After a relentless attack 
 that left all but one member of the Dresari family dead, Ian Dresari has come back to reclaim his 
 bloodright, not for power, but for vengeance.
  
  All aspects of the story telling are done through small videos played back after and before every 
 mission. Usually these involve the lance mates or your tactical officer briefing you on the next 
 mission but not always. Sometimes you get transmissions that have been intercepted and so on that 
 forward your mission and sometimes alter it. Although the issue with my installation of Vengeance 
 made all the videos play back to back before I even selected a mission from the mission screen, 
 so my perception of the game's story was always quite warped until I got to the end and put all 
 the pieces together for myself.
  
  MechWarrior 4: Vengeance was released in 1998 and unfortunately it's not as graphically advanced 
 as you'd like, although for '98 it does look reasonably nice. Nonetheless, the most graphically 
 impressive feature of Vengeance would have to be the 'Mech models and animation, which even to 
 this day, is superb. The weapon fire looks very good, again for its time, I still wish it could've 
 been more cutting edge so that it wouldn't feel so old at this time some eight years later.
  
  MechWarrior has always been a simulation type game, and never arcade in one aspect. Most dedicated 
 fans like myself have purchased joysticks and command decks for this game. In MechWarrior you have 
 to pay attention to heat, coolant, damage to specific parts of the 'Mech, and if your radar is 
 active or passive to avoid detection etc. This is the last good 'Mech simulation out there, all 
 others are only a mere portion of the depth of Vengeance.
  
  Online used to be one of the best experiences available online regardless of what year we're talking 
 about here. Online required extreme teamwork and communication with your other lance mates. Unfortunately, 
 as of this writing, Microsoft has discontinued the online support for the entire MechWarrior 4 
 line. Even though Vengeance is around 8 years old, the community is still as alive as ever. Mektek 
 is the leading website for MechWarrior 4 community expansions. Mektek has added new maps, menus, 
 'Mechs and weapons into the game so far and is still developing for MechWarrior 4: Mercenaries.
 
  
  One of the most startling things about Vengeance is the soundtrack. Duane Decker has composed such 
 a beautiful, powerful soundtrack that I actually went out and purchased it. The only downside about 
 the music in the game is that in 1998 they didn't have any advanced way of mixing the music into 
 the game like they do now. So the music was pretty cut and paste for an event or mission start.
 
  
  All in all, the only game this old that still hails such a dedicated community as I have ever seen 
 is MechWarrior 4: Vengeance. Not even the Half-Life or Halo fan communities have ever gone as far 
 as the MechWarrior communities.
  
  Not only has MechWarrior 4: Vengeance withstood the test of time, but it was one of the best 'Mech 
 games ever produced. FASA made a grave mistake with the discontinuance of the franchise. There 
 are no longer any 'Mech sims as intense as 'Mech Warrior 4 was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JSGD2003
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 10, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  In this game you play a prince who tries to stop a war against a competing fraction. While the 
 story is nothing to write home about, it doesn't ruin the gameplay, because you do not need to 
 view in order to proceed. At the start of the game, you're put in charge of a 'Mech, which is the 
 only one available, but as you play on, you get more 'Mech. Depending on which 'Mech you choose, 
 changes gameplay; either it is slow and heavy, but strong, or either light and fast, but weak, 
 and everything in between. This is a major part of the fun in game, customizing your own 'Mech. 
 You probably spend as much time fine-tuning your 'Mech as you will playing. 
  
  The graphics are of the pretty variety, with good effects, and very well designed 'Mechs. The sound 
 is not quite as impressive, but nothing bad, but rather dull in some parts. They are definitely 
 nothing that stands in the way of the gameplay. A great game that can easily be recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TomJeffJones
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 14, 2006 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Mech4 is a step backward from Mech3. 
  
  1st of all, - it does not look better. The Mechs are poorly proportioned and don't have the sense 
 of weight they had in Mech3. The cockpits are absolutely ridiculous, even worse looking than Mech2's. 
 There are many places from the mission briefings to the V. O. and mech textures where the game shows 
 how little style it has.
  
  The plotline is laughable and the characters unlikeable. Each mission zone manages to seem more 
 'canned' and phony than previous games' possibly because they have neither the scale of Mech2's 
 maps, nor the continuous mission to mission flow of Mech3's, where the player actually moved across 
 a large contiguous piece of terrain over the course of an op. 
  
  Most heinously, weapons lack punch and everything feels floaty. The controls don't have the subtlety 
 and joy of mech2 and 3's. 
  If you take a mech's leg off it just blows up as if you'd punched its reactor. This may be an improvement 
 over mech2's 'one-legged supermechs' which just stood there looking at you after they'd been de-legged, 
 but its got nothing on the mech3 experience of watching an enemy collapse under its own weight. 
 
  and the 'mech explosion' which i assume is meant to represent a reactor breach, is a bizarre mess 
 of fat rays of light that shoot out all over the place. I guarantee that explosion is totally underwhelming, 
 doesn't even sound good, and gets old fast.
  
  Mech3's crowning achievement was its atmosphere - which took the mech2 experience in new directions. 
 Mech4 capitalizes on the strengths of neither of the previous titles. 
  It wasn't as buggy as mech3, but somehow -- seems even less polished. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SciFiShooterGUY
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 18, 2006 3:31 pm PT
Review:  I used to play the Mechwarrior 2 games, around the same time I was playing DOOM. Unfortunatly and 
 fortunatly, the FPS genre has a much better selection of games than most Future Combat Sims.
  
  Gameplay: This game, although it may not include all things from Battletech, has a large selection 
 of MECH and WEAPON setups. I would have liked to see a role with Clan Wolf, one of the fiercest 
 but smallest clans. Too bad they were mostly killed off. I find there is nothing more fun than 
 storming down a large urban or outdoor battlefield, in a Mech both near realistic in engineering, 
 and a scale as large or larger than any building.
  
  Graphics: Had the developers added much more clan variety. Maybe a game that had it all, it would 
 have taken longer. Then I would have been happier with a graphics engine powerful like X3 Reunion. 
 Graphics are decent. but at it's core Gameplay is the best aspect of this game and its expansions.
 
  
  Sound: Well, the voice acting wasn't all that great. It added depth to the game, if not painfully 
 monotone. Put some soul into it people! For a 2001 game though, the sound effects and music helped 
 very much with the games setting. You know, there is no fun running around in a mech, if its stomping 
 footsteps sound like a stick hitting a large stone. So thats one part the game did well. Gave a 
 sense of heaviness to the mechs.
  
  If you like Mechs or Battletech, more than you like Transformers and other Anime style mechs (Mwa!) 
 This is a game you might like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zezerd1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 18, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is extremely easy to learn. Maybe ten minutes and you'll be kicking 'mech butt. Don't 
 be deceived by the easiness to learn, There are plenty of challenges along the way to become the 
 ultimate warrior. The levels don't go from easy-breezy to impossible in an instant either. It gets 
 gradually harder as you go. Also a very large assortment of 'mechs. I think around 20, witch is 
 pretty cool. Now the weapons... awesome awesome awesome. My personnel favorite is the PPC, by far 
 the funnest to blow stuff up with. Great graphics, no blocks or fuzziness. Really good game if 
 you're a veteran and easy to learn if you're a new-comer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaam
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 4, 2006 4:59 am PT
Review:  Great fun to play, and works out nicely with the story line.
  
  Gameplay/Controls: 8/10 
  Controls are pretty decent, and best play as usual is afforded by the keyboard and mouse as it 
 allows for more precise shooting (change mouse to torso twist) . Pretty standard range of missions 
 from attack, defend to protect. Felt that some of the missions were a bit harder than MW3. Don't 
 like the way so many mechs are totally hardwired, making them very restrictive as to what hardware 
 you can load onto them. Like the way armour can be auto distributed. Still missing MW3's chain 
 fire within a group, and the ability to change weapon groups on the fly, and changing the internal 
 structure.
  
  Graphics: 8/10 
  Weapon effects are superb, but otherwise would say that graphics have gone downhill compared to 
 MW3. Just not as detailed and a bit cartoony in comparison. The Video and the little video sequences 
 were superb and cheesy - just what the doctor ordered. Pity the mission screen was not as per MW3 
 which has mission details down pat. Would be nice to also be able to enter own Nav points.
  
  Sound: 9/10 
  The sound on this game can be quite dramatic at some points which sets off 
 then game nicely. Good radio banter and weapon effects. Decent voice acting - nice and cheesy.
 
  
  Value: 8/10 
  Once you have finished this game there is very little to come back and do again, other than trying 
 different strategies, difficulty levels, and chaning you design on second to last mission. 
  
  Rent or Buy? 
  This game is a good buy. 
  
  Reviewers Tilt: 9/10 
  A nice edition to 
 the rest of the MW series. Pity about the slightly cartoony look and would still love to see some 
 of the MW3 features implemented on future MW titles.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blahboy01
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 20, 2005 1:28 am PT
Review:  The story line goes: you are already a mech commander, and you have just arrived home to find your 
 entire family (exclude your weird brother) and now you want revenge, or "vengeance". As the story 
 progresses, you find out the missions get deeper and more dangerous, until your gonna have to fend 
 yourself off against quite a few mechs. Your teammates aren't exactly the brightest in the bunch 
 (they can however pull the trigger and pop off a few enemies) , so you need to get yourself up to 
 speed quick. Later in the game you will find other mechs and weapons, which you can then swap off. 
 This is the part I like. You can take parts off your mech, and swap them with other, more powerful 
 or more conservative. This game respects the laws of physics, and if your mech ways more and is 
 bigger, its gonna be harder to kill, but move slowly. Keep your mech moving or your dead, never 
 stand still. It is very easy to aim and shoot, and the bullets travel pretty fast. 
  The part you are most likely to respect is the multiplayer online, this is where you can prove 
 that you are a true mech commander, and take your firepower out on someone who will recognize your 
 skill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solid_Alexei
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 18, 2005 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Thats is the best MechWarrior game yet. Its only counterpart is its bigger brother MechWarrior 
 4 Mercenaries At first sight it MAY seems slightly cartoonish with those high colorise graphics 
 but if you spent more time with it, you going to love it! Trust me:) At first I didnt even wanted 
 to play it... But after a while I couldnt take my hands of it. The mechs are more impressive then 
 ever before. Their movement looks more realistic and and unique to each mech. Like for example 
 the 35 tones Cougar runes like jumping then 100 tones killing machine Daishi hardly lifting his 
 knees. The same way the gameplay feels in cokpit. Sitting in the fast scout Mech running at 150km/h 
 + speed feels like sitting on the wild horse! You cant see what happening because of the insane 
 bumping and shaking of your cokpit screen. While the heavy mech on the run (he he: if you can 
 call it that) feels like a huge elephant stomping the ground. Only your elephant is 25 meters high:-)
 
  The graphics are beautiful. When that game came (2000) its graphic engine were supreme! It uses 
 all kind of graphical innovations such as lens flare, high quality shadow, real time damage and 
 so on. The weapon effect maybe look slightly different then it was in MechWarrior 3 but you get 
 used to it soon. The game also features jungle and urban terrain which is extremely cool!!! The 
 enemy can wait behind every tree and corner. 
  The story is MUCH better this time. The plot is good, and we got the real actors this time:) The 
 briefing is much more complex and the chose of lancemates is better. You can chose from many different 
 people.. all with their strength and weaknesses. They also gain experience after a successful mission. 
 
  The gameplay is very intence and can be very difficult at a times. The Mech battles is more complex 
 and bigger then in other MechWarrior games. 
  The only flaws I encountered is the difficulty with controls its very differenet then its on MechWarrior 
 3 if you using keyboard and mouse. Very difficult to adjust to it But if you using Joystick then 
 you can consider yourself the luckiest dude Especially when you using joystick with force 
 feedback! The controls is perfect even in the default setting. The stick itself rumbles and leans 
 when you piloting your Mech. It adds extreme to your MechWarrior 4 experience!!:-)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ijungmann
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 10, 2005 9:51 pm PT
Review:  The MechWarrior series is, in my opinion, one of the great series. This game shows why. Like every 
 Mech game, the plot is the same, but still interesting. There is a war between two sides, you are 
 fighting for one of the sides in large robots called mechs, sort of like a future tank, that come 
 in all different shapes and sizes, and are fitted with armor, weapons, ranging from guns to lasers 
 to missles, and a few extra little things. 
  
  In this game, you are Ian, and your father serves in a rebellion against the dominant government. 
 Your father is killed during a battle, and if you can't guess it, you want revenge.
  
  The gameplay is great. To a lot of people, Mech games are just basic blow-up-other-mechs-type game, 
 but it's not. You must also dirrect your wingmen, or get killed because you left them behind. Some 
 missions, you are directed to destroy certain objects, like a dropship, or a hanger, or shoot down 
 certain tanks or planes. Some you must protect a convoy from destruction.
  
  The graphics and sound are superb. The flashing lasers, the texture of the land, the look of the 
 mechs, every aspects is nearly flawless. And the souns of the destroyed trees being run over, the 
 sound of the missles launching, as well as the soundtrack, all great. Before each mission, you 
 recieve messages from people, which uses real footage, sort of like Myst does, and it looks great.
 
  
  The game is great, and has lots of missions to play. Unfotunately, there are a few things that 
 make it not as great. The controls are incredibely hard to learn on the keyboard, and many give 
 up and miss out on a great game. I would suggest you get a gamepad, or a joystick, or whatever 
 you want to call it. The game is short, and does not have much replay value. At the secong to last 
 mission, you must choose between saving your sister or raiding a weapon depot, but it won't make 
 much of a difference, your mechanic will get ticked off and leave if you let your sister die and 
 go after weapons, which sets up the story for thr expansion pack. If you save your sister, you 
 won't be as ready for the final mission, and the endind will be different. But unless you want 
 to go through the entire game twice, you won't see it, so...
  
  One of the best features in the game is the ability to completely costomize your own Mech. Choose 
 from one of the designs, and put on the armor, the weapons, and the little tweaks like jump jets 
 and camoflage. The multiplayer is pretty fun, but it's basically blow up the opponent.
  
  All in all, this is a great game, and everyone should try it, especially if you are a fan of the 
 Mech series.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Varik
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jul 31, 2004 7:26 am PT
Review:  Upon switching from Microprose to Microsoft, the Mechwarrior franchise took a massive beating. 
 A game that used to be unique and entertaining, turned campy and overly dramatic. Yes, the graphics 
 are impressive... but I always prefered my mechs to have industrial colors, and not comic book 
 type colors. 
  
  The worst aspect of Mechwarrior 4 is the storey line. Previous Mechwarrior games had a well written 
 storey line, that left a lot to the imagination of the player. In MW4, they have filmed actors 
 playing the roles, and overly dramatic at that. And the storeyline itself is a direct steal from 
 the "Dune" storey.
  
  In the end I feel MW4 is only a disgrace, when it could have been so much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silvermyst
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 19, 2003 9:53 am PT
Review:  Wonderful game. Great replay value. Even after having beat the game as a sub-mech unit of one of 
 the elder mech houses you can still go back and play the others, then toss in 3 different endings 
 and you looking at quite a bit of playing time. Only big complaint I have is if the game company 
 can come out with the mechs they have (and those done well) why could they not allow the 
  mech expansion pak mechs in the single player version...? Oh well.. 
  
  Now I am eagerly awaiting 
 the trouble from the Terra and the bloody palm... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
