-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: MechWarrior 4: Black Knight Expansion
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/mechwarrior4blackke/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  6, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 7.9, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 282 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Cyberlore Studios
Genre: Mech Sim
Date:     Oct 31, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Players itching for more mech combat might as well get Black Knight, if not because it's a good 
 add-on to a great game, then because there's no alternative. 

 The futuristic yet rugged form of the BattleMech has long since become an icon in PC gaming. Years 
 ago, these gigantic bipedal tanks were ripped from the BattleTech pen-and-paper role-playing game 
 and have since become the subject of a slew of action-packed simulations. The license to BattleTech 
 bounced around over the years until Microsoft finally claimed it -- a seemingly permanent resolution. 
 Microsoft has already delivered a couple of solid MechWarrior games, including this year's well-received 
 real-time strategy game MechCommander 2 and last year's MechWarrior 4: Vengeance. The latter game 
 did an excellent job of bringing the world of BattleTech to life -- it managed to render mechs with 
 an acute attention to their monstrous proportions. But its graphics weren't its only strong suit, 
 as MechWarrior 4 excelled as a multiplayer game. The game balanced action-packed combat with simulation 
 elements, a combination that pleased many players but still didn't appeal to some of BattleTech's 
 hard-core fans.           The expansion offers five new mechs, including the Black Knight itself. 
    

  Nevertheless, the game was successful enough to justify the new expansion pack, MechWarrior 4: 
 Black Knight -- which, unfortunately, doesn't tie in with the  forthcoming movie starring Martin 
 Lawrence . Black Knight, which requires that you have MechWarrior 4 installed, does introduce a 
 challenging single-player campaign with a dynamic mission structure; a number of new mechs, including 
 the imposing Black Knight itself; and some interesting new multiplayer modes to bolster MechWarrior 
 4's already good multiplayer options. These additions are sound -- they extend and expand on the 
 original game's context in meaningful ways -- though they might have given a stronger impression 
 if Black Knight weren't a full year older than, and just as expensive as, its predecessor.   

 
  Interestingly, MechWarrior 4: Black Knight was developed by CyberLore Studios, rather than by 
 the same team that did the original game. CyberLore has built up an unusual portfolio for itself 
 over the years, which includes the official expansion packs to the popular strategy games Warcraft 
 II and Heroes of Might and Magic II, as well as its own critically acclaimed strategy game, Majesty -- and 
 the expansion pack to that. Clearly, CyberLore knows its expansion packs. It's been making them 
 since before they were in style. Even so, Black Knight is a departure for the company in some ways -- it's 
 a graphically impressive fully 3D game, rather than a simple-looking real-time strategy game. On 
 the other hand, Black Knight actually has a lot in common with CyberLore's previous expansion packs, 
 which were technically good but stayed very true to their predecessors.           New environments 
 like this blasted cityscape make for good battles.    

  The "Black Knight" in the title refers to the notorious mercenary group that you will help lead 
 throughout the expansion pack's new campaign. After fighting for the good guys of the Inner Sphere 
 in the last few MechWarrior games, it's nice to play as the gun-for-hire again, just as you did 
 in MechWarrior 2: Mercenaries, the follow-up to Activision's classic mech sim. Although, as you 
 might expect, the Black Knights won't seem quite as dastardly as they're made out to be, but rather 
 like a typical battle-hardened regiment of soldiers. The game's plot unfolds in some brief noninteractive 
 sequences using the game engine, but mostly through voice-over between characters. The voice work 
 is well done, but alone it doesn't manage to make Black Knight's story very engaging, especially 
 when measured against games like MechCommander 2, which made good use of full-motion video sequences 
 to provide a better sense of context and purpose for the action.   

  The campaign missions themselves are tough and reasonably varied, and they take you through five 
 operations in a number of colorful environments, from molten wastelands to ruined metropolises 
 to resource-rich mineral fields filled with crystalline outcroppings. The campaign isn't completely 
 linear -- the success or failure of certain objectives may yield different options for the next mission. 
 In the mech lab, between scenarios, you'll have a chance to trade salvaged equipment on the black 
 market to get your hands on better gear. You can use this to customize your mechs more than you 
 might otherwise be able to with just the battlefield salvage. But having more options in the mech 
 lab means having an even greater responsibility for custom-tailoring your mech as best you can. 
 The difficulty of some of the scenarios will make you frequently revisit your mech designs, tweaking 
 their loadouts with the prescience of what your enemies will bring to the fray.    

 MechWarrior 4 was a great multiplayer game, if not inherently because it let you pit your best mech 
 configuration against fellow human opponents, then just because the action was generally fast and 
 smooth even over a dial-up connection. Black Knight expands on the original game's multiplayer 
 options by introducing several new modes of play, which are fairly predictable variants on other 
 popular multiplayer modes. For instance, the new "mech strongholds" mode requires teams of players 
 to defend key installations while trying to destroy those of the enemy. The "siege assault" mode 
 is similar, but the teams decide in advance which will defend and which will attack.           
 The new campaign is much tougher than that of the original game.    

  A couple of the other new modes, "goliaths" and "Clan vs. Inner Sphere," are inherently unbalanced. 
 The former pits teams of light mechs against heavier ones, while the latter -- true to the BattleTech 
 fiction -- pits the relatively weaker Inner Sphere mechs against the technologically superior Clan 
 mechs. Fortunately, these modes, along with the new "attrition" deathmatch variant, all use a damage-to-mech-tonnage 
 ratio for determining the final scores, which gives smaller mechs a fighting chance at least on 
 the scoring screen. The team-focused multiplayer modes of Black Knight can be fun, and it's easy 
 to find a game by using the built-in server browser. But then again, the original MechWarrior 4 
 offered a lot of variety in its multiplayer mode to begin with, so the new modes offered in Black 
 Knight yield diminishing returns.   

  MechWarrior 4 looked spectacular when it was released a year ago, and it still looks excellent -- though 
 perhaps not quite as dramatic as it used to. Still, the white-hot weapon effects, the blistering 
 explosions, and certainly the gigantic mechs themselves remain a pleasure to watch and still sound 
 good. The new mechs, vehicles, and weapons, as well as the new environments added in Black Knight, 
 blend in well with the original game's content -- to the point where it can be difficult to tell 
 the old from the new. Most of the new mechs -- even the light ones -- have a default configuration 
 that packs a serious punch, thanks to concentrated arrays of energy weapons. Expect to get right 
 up in the enemy's business in Black Knight's new mechs.           Black Knight's multiplayer modes 
 can make for a good challenge too.    

  That's not to suggest Black Knight plays much differently than MechWarrior 4 did, because it doesn't. 
 Hard-core BattleTech players who were disappointed by MechWarrior 4's action-oriented battles will 
 find more of the same thing, only tougher, in Black Knight. For the same reason, those who found 
 MechWarrior 4's campaign to be enjoyable but fairly easy will appreciate the greater challenge 
 in Black Knight, even if it is similar. The multiplayer action is similar too. This isn't to say 
 that the additions in MechWarrior 4: Black Knight are insubstantial -- only that they aren't necessarily 
 justifiable. Think of it this way: Black Knight is a game about mercenaries, so you might as well 
 take a mercenary approach toward the game itself. What price do you put on five more mechs, a new 
 campaign, and some more multiplayer modes? Probably not $30, which is the asking price for Black 
 Knight and incidentally also the asking price for the original MechWarrior 4.   

  In the mid-'90s, expansion packs were almost always bad news. They were scenario collections that 
 were hastily thrown together and were sold for a significant percentage of the original game's 
 cost. With Beyond the Dark Portal for Warcraft II, CyberLore Studios helped show that a higher 
 level of quality could be expected from such products. By now, many expansion packs are actually 
 very good. Unfortunately, somewhere along the line, they also started selling for 50 percent more 
 than they used to. And that $30 price point is really the only serious problem with MechWarrior 
 4: Black Knight. Still, it's a mercenary world -- since mech simulations aren't nearly as common 
 as they used to be, if you're a fan, then you'll have to take what you can get. Especially now 
 that EA and Kesmai's BattleTech 3025 is looking like it may never see the light of day, there's 
 all the more reason why players itching for more mech combat might as well get Black Knight, if 
 not because it's a good add-on to a great game, then because there's no alternative.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jaam
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 4, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  
  Gameplay/Controls: 9/10
  Controls are as per Vengeance (mouse for torso twist, being better than keyboard or joystick - 
 prefer mouse keyboard combination as joystick alone does not have enough controls and is awkward, 
 using joystick and keyboard, plus mouse gives improved aiming ability over joystick) .
  Gameplay similar to Vengeance, but generally seems a lot tougher in most missions - also nice to 
 have some light mech only missions.
  Nice touches with the black market and mechs being highlighted in different colours when damaged, 
 so can be used, but will carry damage. Nice touch.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  Same as per Vengeance - still a bit cartoony for my taste. Though it is missing the really nice 
 cheesy FMV and FMV acting / feedback. Just get a picture and a voice. Not nearly as nice.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  Same as Vengeance.
  
  Value: 6/10
  Once you have finished this game there 
 is very little to come back and do again, other than trying different strategies, difficulty levels. 
 Also include expensive price of add on.
  
  Rent or Buy?
  This game is a good buy - especially for any mechwarrior collector out there.
  
  Reviewers 
 Tilt: 9/10
  A nice edition to the rest of the MW series with a good level of difficulty. Pity about the slightly 
 cartoony look and would still love to see some of the MW3 features implemented on future MW titles. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
