-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: MechCommander 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/mechcommander2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 19, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 7.9, 35 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 497 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Jul 18, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Those looking for a visually impressive, enjoyable real-time strategy game set in the BattleTech 
 universe should find that MechCommander 2 fits that description well. 

 While the concept of piloting giant metal killing machines has been popular in the first-person 
 combat genre thanks to the MechWarrior series, the attempt to transfer this concept to the strategy 
 genre in 1998's MechCommander met with limited success. This is surprising, since the original 
 game implementation of this universe was the BattleTech tabletop board game that was the epitome 
 of strategic gaming. Almost exactly three years later, Microsoft has revamped its original mech 
 strategy game in MechCommander 2. Yet, the more things change, the more they stay the same, because 
 while the developers have clearly addressed key flaws in the original, the finished product still 
 suffers from some of the same design drawbacks that plagued MechCommander 2's predecessor. Fortunately, 
 MechCommander 2 also manages to capture enough of the spirit of BattleTech to make it enjoyable 
 in spite of this.           The 3D graphics in MechCommander 2 bring its world to life.    

  While MechCommander 2 is a real-time strategy game, it often feels a little more like a role-playing 
 game. That's because your ultimate success will depend on the experience and equipment you gain 
 from mission to mission. In true BattleTech style, the game is all about improving your forces 
 with new technology, equipping them with the right mix of weapons, and continuing to improve the 
 skills of your pilots. It's this sense of accumulation and improvement that drives the single-player 
 game forward, and it's also the main obstacle to the game's replay value.   

  The first MechCommander had some noticeable shortcomings. You couldn't set waypoints, and mechs 
 had a tendency to stand still while engaged in combat. In addition, you couldn't select units without 
 clicking on them, and you couldn't save during missions. Microsoft must have paid attention to 
 the complaints, because these and various other deficiencies have been addressed in the sequel. 
 You can now save your progress during missions. Waypoints can be set separately for walking, running, 
 and jumping movement modes, and mechs engaged in combat dart here and there, generally firing on 
 the run (though with odd exceptions) . Units can now also be grouped, and you can select these groups 
 using keystrokes. The waypoints help tremendously, as does the improved artificial intelligence 
 of your pilots. Unfortunately, there are still some problems with maintaining a given distance 
 from an enemy -- even with orders to stay at long range, mechs tend to close in so that they can 
 use more weapons. Whereas MechCommander's mechs were a bit too passive, the sequel has nudged them 
 too far in the opposite direction. They'll engage enemies on sight, but this means that if you 
 lose track of a battle, you'll often find some of your pilots wandering across the map, chasing 
 an enemy you hadn't even noticed.           You'll look forward to the cinematic cutscenes between 
 missions.    

  Otherwise, MechCommander 2 sticks to the same formula present in the original game: a linear campaign 
 driven by excellent cutscenes. The story itself isn't that engaging, but its presentation definitely 
 is. The full-motion video clips are quite entertaining, especially a recurring talk show, which 
 is clearly a spoof of  The McLaughlin Group . Some of the acting is outstanding for a computer 
 game, especially that of Rick Deats, who gives an appropriately over-the-top performance as Colonel 
 Renard. The result is one of those rare games, much like Command &amp; Conquer, where you'll actually 
 look forward to seeing the next cutscene.   

  Sadly, the actual campaign itself is much less interesting. The missions are strictly linear, with 
 fixed objectives and enemies that are triggered by moving your units within sensor range. Objectives 
 are numbered sequentially, and in most cases, this corresponds to a logical order in which they 
 must be completed. This means that you don't even have the option of taking a radically different 
 tactical approach to the battles on subsequent playings of the campaign (although you could try 
 to win with different mech combinations) . Some missions are so linear that straying even slightly 
 from the script spells doom, like when you're given exactly enough resource points to salvage certain 
 enemy mechs, which you then use to complete the mission with the help of some additional pilots 
 that magically arrive to aid you. You also get plenty of voice-over advice, which helps to create 
 a nice atmosphere the first time through but limits the replay value subsequently.    

 That said, the persistent nature of the campaign world makes the initial playing a rewarding experience 
 even for those who might not be fans of the BattleTech concept. In fact, more casual fans will 
 likely enjoy the game even more than the diehards, since MechCommander 2 still hasn't quite found 
 a good way to portray the concept of mech heat management in a strategic format. Now, there is 
 an overall heat limit you must take heed of when designing mechs, but once you're in combat, heat 
 isn't an issue. Since heat is one of the foundations of the whole BattleTech premise, fans of more 
 hard-core treatments of this in different genres (like in the classic MechWarrior 2) might find 
 that MechCommander 2 doesn't quite translate the feel of these other mech games. A similar complaint 
 can be made about targeting various mech body parts, which can be done in MechCommander 2 but isn't 
 the fundamental strategy lynchpin that it is in other BattleTech games. Still, it retains enough 
 of the flavor of mech combat to keep your interest, and the battles themselves involve a fair amount 
 of strategic planning. The addition of support elements (such as air strikes, fixed artillery scout 
 copters, and more) that you can buy with resource points while in a particular mission adds to 
 the strategic choices.           The single-player missions are often very linear...    

  MechCommander 2 is a fast-paced game by strategy standards, and as such, orders can be issued in 
 paused mode. In fact, many players will probably find themselves spending more time in pause mode 
 during combat than out of it. For this reason, it's strange that Microsoft didn't make the pause 
 mode easier to use. You have to wait for a system menu to pop out of the right side of the screen, 
 and once paused, you can't see what orders you've issued -- there are no graphical indicators to 
 show where a mech has been told to go or which target he's firing at. For something that's so crucial 
 to the gameplay, the pause mode seems like an afterthought.   

  Another basic BattleTech concept is the ability to customize and equip your mechs, and this is 
 a key feature of MechCommander 2 as well. Battlefield salvage yields a variety of mech weapons 
 and chasses, and as you progress through the campaign, you'll find yourself tinkering with mech 
 loadouts to find appropriate designs for the various missions. Since MechCommander 2 does away 
 with fog of war on the map, you can survey the terrain and get a detailed picture of the situation 
 to inform your force selection choices. The only problem is that since there is no skirmish mode 
 (there isn't even the option to fight computer opponents in multiplayer) , your mech design skills 
 in solo mode will be confined to the campaign -- unless you can find some live opponents. This is 
 perhaps the most disappointing aspect of the game, because the heart of the BattleTech experience 
 is designing the perfect mech and testing it against various other designs. But in MechCommander 
 2, you're essentially confined to multiplayer once you've finished the campaign. There is a mission 
 editor in the game, and you can create new missions as well as download others' missions. But this 
 isn't a good substitute for a configurable skirmish mode in a strategy game. The lack of a skirmish 
 mode is mitigated somewhat by the ability to use maps from the campaign missions you've completed 
 as stand-alone missions to test mech designs.   

  Like the original MechCommander, the sequel looks absolutely great. The mechs are nicely detailed, 
 explosions and other weapons effects are excellent, and the terrain is destructible -- you can even 
 walk over a tree with your mech and watch it fall over. The sound effects go nicely with the graphics, 
 and from a technical standpoint, MechCommander 2 does a much better job with 3D than some other 
 recent real-time strategy games. The maps are a little homogenous, but the actual terrain effects 
 on line of sight make for some interesting strategic situations. Sensor contacts become important 
 since getting the jump on your enemy can give you a significant advantage if you can make your 
 first strike count.           ... and the game's replay value is limited since there's no skirmish 
 option.    

  The similarities to the original MechCommander extend to the technical requirements -- you really 
 need a top-end machine to run the game properly. Even on a high-end test system, though, the graphics 
 engine seemed to bog down with a lot of objects in play. Even worse, this extends to keystroke 
 and mouse-click recognition -- at times, it becomes difficult to select units or even pause the game, 
 so you'll end up reloading. Load times are similarly long, and in some cases, dreadfully so. While 
 this has something to do with hardware, the simplest thing to do is to turn various graphics options 
 (especially shadows) off. Unfortunately, if you do this, you won't be able to experience the game 
 in its full glory.   

  MechCommander 2 is a significant improvement upon the original in numerous ways, particularly in 
 the interface. At the same time, it fails to address the more general design issues that kept its 
 predecessor from being the ideal strategic implementation of the BattleTech universe. Although 
 it falls short of being a strategic version of MechWarrior 2, MechCommander 2 still has so much 
 going for it that only the most die-hard BattleTech fans will be disappointed. Those simply looking 
 for a visually impressive, enjoyable real-time strategy game set in the BattleTech universe should 
 find that MechCommander 2 fits that description well.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 19, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  MechCommander 2 is an RTS set in the MechWarrior series. The story starts as the commander is hired 
 by Colonel Renard for help in this mech war. After a few more missions the commander now has to 
 work for other mech unions and is betrayed by Colonel Renard. The game features real time acting 
 instead of CGI cutscenes. The player can also have mech upgrades for their mechs and salvage enemy 
 mechs at the end of the mission for more money to buy more mechs and upgrades.
  
  What I liked about this game is that the RTS controls are tight. The graphics look great. Mechs 
 look good. The combat can get pretty intense.
  
  What made this game mediocre overall is that as the story gets more interesting, the game ends 
 during that time. Extremely frustrating moments. Some bad live action acting.
  
  Overall, this is a pretty mediocre RTS experience for me. In my book I think Homeworld, Warcraft 
 III, and Starcraft had it better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j007penz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 5:17 am PT
Review:  I have loved MechCommander since the first in the series debued. Honestly, the graphic aspect of 
 this game was seriously enhanced (BIG switch from 2D to 3D) , the mission lengths were improved 
 as well with the addition of a few complicated secondary objectives, and the ability to call in 
 reinforcements is something I especially loved from this game, as it forced the player to actually 
 think about his/her money.
  
  Ok so, first of all, my learning curve was short, perhaps due to my previous experience with MechCommander 
 Gold, but I also think that it's not that much of a complicated game, you select mechs relative 
 to your maximum drop-weight, you select pilots for your mechs with special abilities, you can even 
 customize the mechs to suit certain pilots or certain personal objectives. All these features make 
 this game different for each player, hence everyone will have a different view on this game, better 
 for me.
  
  Looking at all this, the game is fun, addictive, interesting, simply well made out.. but you'll 
 just get disappointed when you reach the end of the game. Get it if you can, you'll have fun for 
 a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakaii
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit that I have played very little of the other MechWarrior/Mechcommander games. I believe 
 in being honest. But I've read up on the other games considerably. 
  Mechcommander 2 is a great game that portrays the close up action from the cockpits of the MechWarrior 
 games into a RTS well. You can modify you're mechs just like always, but a little simpler than 
 normal so that you can keep up with all your other mechs, move your different pilots around, and 
 decide which skills your pilots acquire. All these decisions the player makes reflects his/her 
 fighting style, especially the pilot skills you pick. I personally will try to balance them, picking 
 one sensor specialist to train excessively and several favored pilots with extra abilities in LRM's, 
 autocannons, and pulse lasers (I'm the aggressive type) . 
  The graphics aren't much compared to today's games, but the game still maintains, if nothing else, 
 a very entertaining and addictive mood to it. Once you start playing, you won't want to stop, whether 
 it's taking out an annoying outpost, or exacting vengeance on a persistent Vulture-type Mech. All 
 around, a good game that rates an 8.5 for me. Well done Atari. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxTuakisxX
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2006 4:06 am PT
Review:  Ok i haven't touch this game since 2002 but what's more to be said ? There are any more new mechcommander 
 or mechwarrior games coming out at the moment, so the Btech universe will have to make do with 
 whatever we got.
  
  Anyway in case you guys have being living under a rock for the last few months, the FULLY PLAYABLE 
 game is now free for download. Hop to microsoft site and look for it. MC2 is now fully open-source 
 and free.
  
  Well if the free part has not gotten your attention, it still quite a blast. The graphics might 
 not be top notch, but they are perfect for a mech ! Mech's are big and squarish thingies so even 
 ol school blocky graphics don't hurt them at all. The sound is still crisp and sharp especially 
 for the PPCs and the booms from airstrikes and ammo dumps are still decent. The game does lack 
 replay value due to lack of a skirmish or instant action mode but you probably won't need it. Each 
 mission takes relatively a long time to complete and will get even longer when you realise that 
 you have to juggle between Secondary and Primary objectives... This is definitely not your 5 minute 
 jump into game, you will need time and lots of it !! Especially if you want to do everything perfectly 
 or play on hard mode. So be warned, be ready to invest time before you start off any mission.
 
  
  The game is basically a tactical RTS with some tweaks (like airstrikes, collecting resource points 
 , dropping in a helicopter etc) and the occasional RPG factor. The RPG factor comes in on your 
 AI pilots and developing them to gain special abilities is the key. This means that pilots that 
 fight more gain more experience and they will level faster, get better stats and gain more special 
 abilities. However, you do not just want a single core of elite soldiers all the time, if one happens 
 to get KIA, YOU WILL feel the loss since most of your replacements are usually Green and Regulars, 
 not the kind of dudes to bring to the late missions. So eventually you will rotate pilots so you 
 will have at least half a dozen of strong backups for your main team. Of course the game isn't 
 so straight forward, this a Battletech game, it is naturally complex !! Not only you have to juggle 
 your men, you need to accumulate cash to buy new mechs, accumulate new tech and then pouring out 
 the cash to shoehorn that spiffy new Gauss rifle tech that you just got into your shiny new Highlander. 
 Then you have to mess around with the mech lab since customizing is always fun and then burn more 
 time in the process, and oh after missions there is salvage, injured guys to rotate, special abilities 
 to choose for pilots and complement your team requirements.... The duties just go on and on and 
 wait, we are not even on the battlefield yet !!
  
  Once again i state, this is a game that is time intensive and instense. If you have the spare time, 
 paitence and really into Battletech / Mechwarrior, this game will work for you !!! The missions 
 might be too damn linear but for the perfectionist in you this game rocks, especially if you completed 
 the mission with all objectives achieve, not one mech down and even fact gained more and blah blah.
 
  
  So go and DL it now !! No harm trying since its free ! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noxdracodeus
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2006 8:20 pm PT
Review:  I like it, a lot. Editor has a few bumps but other that that I like it, really easy customizable 
 mechs and easy to hack too! Editor not all user friendly takes a bit getting used to but still 
 good for its buck! Game play is a bit old for to day but easy to get lost in especially if you 
 love your mechs, I wonder why micro hasnt made any others??? I hope they do and fast make many 
 many many many mech games big mach smash you dead! And your little dog too! And your mom and you 
 family and anything else you love or care about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: setsuna_pg
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 10, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  Honestly, I loved MechCommander since the first in the series, the graphic aspect of this game 
 was seriously enhanced (BIG switch from 2D to 3D) , the mission lengths were improved as well with 
 the addition of a few complicated secondary objectives, and the ability to call in reinforcements 
 is something I especially loved from this game, as it forced the player to actually think about 
 his/her money.
  
  Ok so, first of all, my learning curve was short, perhaps due to my previous experience with MechCommander 
 Gold, but I also think that it's not that much of a complicated game, you select mechs relative 
 to your maximum drop-weight, you select pilots for your mechs with special abilities, you can even 
 customize the mechs to suit certain pilots or certain personal objectives. All these features make 
 this game different for each player, hence everyone will have a different view on this game, better 
 for me.
  
  Now, on to the cons I found on this title. First, it was WAY too easy, I didn't spend more than 
 a week of normal gaming days on this (to me that's about 4-6 hours a day) , and that was on a hard 
 difficulty... my first reaction was to actually wonder if it was the end of the game or just a 
 cinematic, but much to my dismay, there were no more levels to play *sigh*. I asked myself "What 
 happened?", well, the mechs I designed were just too powerful I suppose, unlike MechCommander 1 
 where you are pummeled ruthlessly from all ranges, MC2 doesn't make it so hard on you, you'll find 
 either mechs that beat you up at close range, medium range or long range, but never two of these 
 at a time, making it easy to pick them off with a single weapon configuration, which in my case 
 was a couple of ER PPC, PPC and plenty of LRM's (those who play will know what I mean) , so my config 
 was mainly long range.. and 12 mechs with only long range weapons in MC1 would be suicide, as you'll 
 find plenty of short range mechs around to beat you senseless as you try to pick off the long range 
 mechs.
  
  So, how can this be judged?, well, the customizing feature on the mechs is one of the best ways 
 of really getting a feel for the game, but it's what kills the difficulty in this particular release.
 
  
  If I haven't bored you enough with this review (=P) , the sound WILL bore you to death, did they 
 not have enough budget for some new sound effects or something? ugh, they just took half the FX 
 from MC1, and pasted 'em here..
  
  Looking at all this, the game is fun, addictive, interesting, simply well made out.. but you'll 
 just get disappointed when you reach the end of the game without even trying your best. Get it 
 if you can, you'll have fun for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnlivedPhalanx
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 17, 2005 2:30 pm PT
Review:  This Mech game is a highly addictive highly detailed sequel to Mech Commander.
  
  This game keeps tradition with the Mech world, lore, history, and basic mechs and their configs.
 
  
  The houses are once again at war and you sell your team (and command themt too) to the services 
 of these houses. It even accurately portrays the mercenary side of business too, when a different 
 house offers you more cash, you follow the job.
  
  The game is a rather fast paced RTS compared to other similar titles and a knowledge of prior 'Mech 
 action certainly helps when faced with some of the tactics although it is not nessasary as there 
 are tuts availible that accurately demonstrate how a mech operates.
  
  Just a simple fun games for ANY RTS FANS, and even for people who dislike RTS games, like myself. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randar23rhenn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 21, 2005 5:27 am PT
Review:  I purchased MechCommander 2 in the "Mech Collection" pack, which also included MechWarrior 4 and 
 its expansion. I purchased the pack for MechWarrior 4, but oddly enough, MechCommander 2 was the 
 game I enjoyed the most.
  
  Gameplay: MechCommander 2 is an interesting take on the strategy Genre. It is much like a Real 
 Time Strategy, but lacks resource gathering or a home base (excluding the payments you get for 
 missions, of course) . It is not only unique, but also engaging and challenging.
  
  MechCommander 2 puts you in charge of a mercenary squad of mechs, and your task is basically to 
 get the money flow going, eventually the campaign gets much deeper, but I won't spoil it for you. 
 Regardless, the plot is interesting enough, and the excellant gameplay is enough to keep you playing 
 no matter what.
  
  You command a various number of Mechs through your missions, some allow for a whole group, while 
 other missions allow for only one mech. On the way you salvage new mechs and parts, place gun emplacements, 
 and fulfill various mission objectives as you see fit. 
  
  Mission variety plays a huge part in a game like this, as the entire gameplay centers on you controlling 
 a small amount of robotic destroyers. If the mission variety was not diverse enough, it would quickly 
 become boring. MechCommander 2 does not suffer from lack of variety. From missions where you are 
 to destroy a base or a specific mech, to missions where you are to infiltrate and destroy a key 
 target, the missions constantly change in size and ferocity. The challenge never lets up, and you 
 constantly are repairing and refitting your mechs to suit the new challenges.
  
  You are given a massive variety of mechs to choose from, a variety that broadens as you progress 
 through the game, and your weapons variety is also exceedingly high, allowing you to fully deck 
 out your mechs as long as they can haul the wait and handle the heat.
  
  The many different configurations you can create for your mechs gives you hours of gameplay alone, 
 and you will spend these hours often, minutely adjusting your mechs to be the right mechs for the 
 right job, from long range killers to close up fighters, you will diversify and make unique your 
 army. 
  
  Graphics: Graphically impressive, the explosions and different weapon animations are superb, although 
 the terrain gets a little bland after a while.
  
  Sound: Some forgettable music combine with just above average sound effects, but it is still fairly 
 good.
  
  Value: Hundreds of hours of gameplay await you in MechCommander 2, and for the bargain bin price 
 you can get it for, this is a great deal.
  
  Tilt: MechCommander 2 is awesome, and well worth a purchase for fans of the strategy genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rabid_Possum
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 1, 2004 3:04 am PT
Review:  I am a huge mechwarrior fan, having beat Mercenaries and Vengeance at least 20 times each. This 
 game truely feels like the original mechwarrior, with all of the same mechs, weapons, jump jets, 
 etc. If you like mechwarrior, then this game is a must; if you like rts, i would recommend it; 
 if you don't like either, then this maybe isn't the game for you.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 8
  
  OK interface, with some of the buttons not where they should be. Good hotkeys, good mouse control... 
 however, some of the actions, such as jump jets, are a bit more complicated than they should be.
 
  
  GRAPHICS: 9
  
  Great graphics, with lush surroundings, great mech and vehicle models and good building models. 
 The water leaves a bit to be desired, however. 
  
  SOUND: 7
  
  Average sound, with mechs making mech-like sounds, good gun and laser sounds, but no really good 
 background music. Average.
  
  VALUE: 8
  
  Good value... only thing you'll end up playing is single player campaign however, since there's 
 only that and the multiplayer that no one plays. However, the lengthly campaign is one that you'll 
 likely play a couple of times to get everything there is out of them.
  
  TILT: 10
  
  Being the mechwarrior fanatic that i am, i, of course, greatly enjoyed this game. Chances are, 
 you will too if you're a fan of mechwarrior or just enjoy rts's. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
