-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Medal of Honor Allied Assault: Spearhead
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/medalofhonoralliedas/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 11, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 7.6, 33 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 1,824 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Dreamworks Games
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date:     Nov 11, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
You may have to decide whether or not a few hours of great single-player gaming and some new but 
 not earth-shattering multiplayer features are worth 30 bucks. 

 The award-winning film  Saving Private Ryan  influenced several levels in Medal of Honor: Allied 
 Assault, and the new Allied Assault expansion pack, Spearhead, also draws inspiration from that 
 movie, as well as from the HBO miniseries  Band of Brothers . However, in what might be a first 
 in the history of computer gaming, Spearhead is almost shorter than the film that inspired it. 
 The single-player campaign is dense, exciting, and only three-and-a-half hours long. So if you 
 were thinking about picking up the game, you may have to decide whether or not a few hours of great 
 single-player gaming and some new but not earth-shattering multiplayer features are worth 30 bucks. 
           Spearhead's opening scene could have come right out of the HBO series  Band of Brothers 
 .    

  Spearhead begins with a scene that could have been taken straight out of  Band of Brothers : It's 
 D-Day, and you're on a transport plane that will soon drop you into Normandy. As explosions rock 
 the aircraft, you stand up, perform an equipment check, and then take your turn jumping out of 
 the plane. Once outside, you descend 3,000 feet through a chaotic sky full of other paratroopers, 
 AA tracers, planes, and bursting shells, finally crashing through the roof of a barn crawling with 
 Nazis. The entire episode is presented seamlessly, and it's one of the most impressive opening 
 scenes ever created for a first-person shooter.   

  What follows are nine levels spread across three missions in France, Belgium, and Germany. Like 
 Allied Assault, Spearhead doesn't offer much in terms of plot, opting for straightforward missions 
 that aren't interrupted by a great deal of pointless exposition. Most of Allied Assault's gameplay 
 highlights are revisited with new environments and a few tweaks. For instance, in one level, you 
 drive a Russian T-34 tank through the destroyed streets of Berlin. However, the tank controls have 
 been changed a little since Allied Assault -- you can now operate the machine gun mounted on the 
 turret, as well as the main cannon. In another example, instead of having you run from cover to 
 cover at Omaha beach, Spearhead features a level in which you scramble between foxholes as a forest 
 in Ardennes explodes around you.           Though you'll still have to breach enemy cities, entrenched 
 snipers aren't as much of a problem.    

  Spearhead offers the same successful mix of fast-paced squad-level combat and eventful, heavily 
 scripted levels that characterized Allied Assault, though a few of Allied Assault's less successful 
 elements have been removed or fixed. For instance, there are only a few sections of Spearhead in 
 which you're without some sort of computer-controlled squadmates. The deadly accuracy of enemy 
 snipers has also been toned down to the point that they're no longer extremely frustrating, as 
 they were in the original game. You can also lean to the side in the single-player campaign, which 
 makes dealing with snipers even less of a frustrating problem.   

  Spearhead doesn't noticeably improve on Allied Assault's visuals, but the graphics that looked 
 great 10 months ago are still just as impressive. The expansion does add a few brand-new and intriguing 
 environmental effects, such as trees that snap in half as you pound them with mounted guns. The 
 sound effects and the original's excellent music have likewise been left unimproved and were likewise 
 not in need of much improvement.   

  Allied Assault's multiplayer component is already very popular. But if you're not a fan of it yet, 
 there isn't anything in the expansion that will change your mind. Spearhead features 12 new maps 
 (13, if you include the Malta map that's currently available only in the playable demo but may 
 be imported into the full game with a future patch) , one new game type, some relatively inconsequential 
 new weapons, and a bunch of small adjustments to both its interface and gameplay.    

 These gameplay tweaks include relatively minor things such as no longer being able to move while 
 leaning. However, the most noticeable change that Spearhead makes to Allied Assault's multiplayer 
 component is an increase in overall character movement speed. This may be to compensate for the 
 larger maps (most of them are bigger than the biggest Allied Assault map, and Malta is the biggest 
 and most mazelike) . As it happens, Allied Assault's relatively reasonable foot speed helped it 
 seem much more enjoyably realistic, so the speed boost is jarring and unwelcome. You can explicitly 
 set servers to use the old, slower pace, but it'd be better if this were the default setting rather 
 than an option.           Spearhead looks and sounds equally as good as Allied Assault, whose production 
 values have held up well over the year.    

  All of Spearhead's maps are at least pretty good. Almost every one is set in an urban area and 
 features either the "main thoroughfare through a gauntlet of buildings" or "courtyards surrounded 
 by sniper spots" design theme. Thankfully, no attempt has been made to include any flat outdoor 
 levels like Allied Assault's least popular map, Snowy Park, though a new map called Holland, which 
 features almost no buildings you can enter, may take Snowy Park's place in Medal of Honor infamy. 
   

  No new objective-based maps are included in Spearhead. Instead, there are four new maps that support 
 a new game type called "tug of war." This is essentially an objective game with multiple objectives 
 that can be captured by either team until one team finally holds them all simultaneously. In addition, 
 each team's spawn point can be permanently destroyed, at which point that team must complete the 
 objectives without the benefit of respawning reinforcements. Tug of war is a nice evolutionary 
 advancement on the objective mode, and as such, you probably won't mind the lack of new strictly 
 objective-based maps.   

  Spearhead includes more than 20 new weapons. But for the most part, the new guns don't change the 
 game too much. The weapons are still organized in the same six categories, but the available weapons 
 now change according to which character you pick. For instance, while US soldiers have access to 
 the Colt .45, British soldiers get the functionally similar Webley revolver. Every gun that doesn't 
 already have a secondary firing function can now be used to perform a melee pistol-whip attack. 
 There are also new stationary weapons mounted around the levels, such as an operating Flak 88 cannon 
 in the Berlin map. Perhaps the most dramatic new weapon -- the Gewehrgranate, which is a Mauser with 
 a grenade launcher attached -- is currently available only in the Spearhead demo, though there are 
 plans to patch it into the full game at some point.           Spearhead is very short, but offers 
 more of Allied Assault's brand of impressive action.    

  Spearhead's multiplayer interface features a couple of noticeable improvements. Votes for kicking 
 players, changing maps, and altering virtually every major server setting can now be called up 
 using a straightforward menu system rather than the cryptic console commands required in Allied 
 Assault. In addition, a comprehensive filter system has been added to the built-in server browser, 
 though the browser still doesn't support any kind of bookmarking for your favorite servers.   

 
  Essentially, Spearhead's single-player campaign is a lot like the one in Allied Assault, but refined 
 and distilled down to its best parts. Unfortunately, this distillation has resulted in an intense 
 game that's short even by the abbreviated standards set by other expansion packs. On one hand, 
 Spearhead's quality makes it easy to recommend. But on the other hand, you might find it tough 
 to justify paying $30 for it, because if you're not interested in its new multiplayer features, 
 Spearhead will essentially amount to a short afternoon of entertainment.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (35 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 18, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 9
  Sounds: 8
  Value: 7
  Tilt: 8
  
  There's certainly no shortage of war stories derived from the last Great War as every story, no 
 matter how trivial or noteworthy they are, they all have that common element which played a very 
 important part of the war. E. A. in conjunction with The Congressional Medal of Honor Society produced 
 the third Medal of Honor game in January 2002 (or the 1st for the PC) with tremendous success as 
 it faithfully replicates the turmoils and tubulations from this Great War. Therefore almost a year 
 later, the expansion pack 'Medal Of Honor, Allied Assault: Spearhead' continues with the same successful 
 formula of realistically producing the intensity and ruthlessness that the players have experienced 
 during the third MoHAA game.
  
  Being an expansion pack and like its counterparts, Spearhead replicates three scenarios that can 
 easily be classified as turning points for WW2. You'll play through the eyes of Sgt. Jack Barnes 
 and heading throughout the European theatres you'll be going 'behind the Atlantic wall' during 
 the early morning of D-Day (June 6th 1944) , defending the ever-important and strategic town of 
 Bastogne as part of the eminent Battle of the Bulge to the one man seige of Berlin just before 
 the massive Red Army marches by.
  
  So from the opening cut-scene you form part of the 501st Infantry Regiment, parachuting into France 
 is certainly one of the most unforgettable moments in any video gaming and looking in hindsight, 
 could very well be the motivation for the latest Medal of Honor Airborne game as you can see the 
 similarities between them. Yet what seems odd though that even though you get the opportunity of 
 playing the enjoyable Russian campaign, you cannot help feeling a little 'off mark' as being the 
 American hero, the Americans never really joined forces with the Russians until the very end of 
 the war and since when an American drove the T-34 tank single-handed?
  
  Thus far Spearhead still maintained that intensity that was well-known from the third Medal of 
 Honor game and considering the third campaign predominantly is the Russian assault of Berlin, there 
 will be additional armaments that were mainly used by the Russians for that period (e. g. PPSh SMG, 
 the Mosin-Nagant and the beloved SVT40) but in the hands of the American, you. Also there have 
 been some significant improvements with the realism of all the weapons in Spearhead as it now takes 
 into the consideration for recoil, distance and damage ability.
  
  Improvements have been made with the AI and it's especially noticeable when playing on the 'hard' 
 level as they don't have the tendency to have sniper-like acurracy. Yet, and regrettably so, there 
 are some missions where the captain must not die yet he acts like a kamikaze idiot and charges 
 into battle or standing in front of a tank (which is not a really clever thing to do) therefore 
 forces you to rush past the captain and hopefully nuke anything before he starts firing and dying. 
 
  
  Ending each mission will guarantee a medal (like its predecessor) but sadly there are no 'beyond 
 the call of duty' medals which really made a difference in the first game. Yet you will be treated 
 with a perfectly narrated war poem and genuine photo snippets from each completed scenario which 
 certainly adds realism to the game play. 
  
  The graphics are pretty much the same as the original Medal of Honor but certainly not outdated 
 as the Quake III engine continues to be the powerhouse for PC gaming; yet unfortunately so there 
 are still drops in frame rates when rending outdoor environments but this doesn't happen often. 
 Although cool features has been added to Spearhead like trees can be cut in half, sections of buildings 
 blown off or bowling down street lamps when driving a tank certainly brings excitement to that 
 otherwise static environs. However one noticeable change was that Spearhead uses real footage when 
 detailing your next mission and uses real photos during the summery page. This positively enhances 
 the game play of not just playing the game but being in the game.
  
  Considering the sounds department hasn't really made much change yet this does not to say it's 
 backward as the quality is still top-notch so expect the whizzing sounds of bullets firing, the 
 whirling and cranking sounds from those huge flak guns to planes screaming overhead. Also you cannot 
 help but smile to the Medal of Honor title theme as you'll almost feel the sense of this 'Medal 
 of Honor patriotism' and as expected there are additional musical scores to enjoy. Yet the most 
 significant change arises from the voice acting of Sgt. Jack Barnes who's spoken by the talented 
 Gary Oldman.
  
  As with any expansion packs Spearhead is quite a short game considering there are only three missions 
 with four parts in each, expect just a couple of hours playing time however all is not lost as 
 you'll still get the intensity and excitement like the original Medal of Honor game. Yet there's 
 some noteworthy add-ons when it comes to multiplayer as there's an additional modes being the 'Tug 
 of War' (players have multiple objectives which can be retaken by the opposing team) . Also there's 
 more multiplayer choices like able to vote out/select a map therefore adds more team cohesiveness 
 when selecting your next battleground.
  
  Medal of Honor: Allied Assault Spearhead although only reveals just three single player missions 
 it still maintains that warlike feel that made the third instalment such a noteworthy FPS. With 
 all the additional features like using real film footage, quality voice acting, improved AI, realistic 
 weaponries and exciting new multiplayer modes, Spearhead is certainly a worthwhile investment in 
 time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 10:14 am PT
Review:  ***NOTE: REVIEW IS FOR SINGLE PLAYER VERSION ONLY***
  
  In this expansion you get to play as a british commando in a new campaign and new set of missions. 
 Also you now have new weapons, which are very detailed replicas of famous british WWII weaponry. 
 
  
  Medal of Honor does a great job of making you feel panic under fire. The sound of bullets wizzing 
 by, the exploisions all around you, the yells from you fellow soldiers.... it all just really helps 
 make you feel like that your there. 
  
  This was really great FPS due to the fact that it was fairly simple, no complicated weapons or 
 levels, but yet a blast to play. Everything about this game was top notch. The mission design, 
 the graphics, the sound, the gameplay it was just all around enjoyable to play. 
  
  The gameplay is smooth and I didn't occur any bugs or glitches. The single player campaign did 
 seem a bit short thought, for me at least. The sounds match up perfectly to the accurate and detailed 
 WWII arsnal. All in all, it's a great game that's a must for any WWII buff!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Well, I'm writing this and it's been quite a while after I've played it. To be perfectly honest, 
 so many good games have been made on this topic that I've mixed them all up and don't know which 
 one this is. These games are all linear but still very well done and I couldp lay them no matter 
 how many of them they make. 
  
  So, I won't be specific and I will mark / rank all of the games on of this genre with the same 
 mark of 9.0 as I think they are all incredible but it is really hard to have a game worth 10 on 
 this usbject matter as long as they are linear. 
  
  The only game that will get 9.5 will be Brother in Arms: Earned in Blood 
  
  
  
  My marking 
 system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing if you have nothing else to play
  6 - 
 worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely anything 
 else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 as if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10)
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life.
  
  Best Wishes to everyone
  
  Zak 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  I think about the most sleek feature in this expansion is the rocket artillery platform called 
 Nebelwerfer (German for "smoke launcher") where it's prominent in a lot of missions. When you get 
 to use it, you will notice it has a peculiar shrieking mortar sound effect that actually sounds 
 quite cool.
  
  The sound FX again maintains the benchmark of the gaming industry and the graphics are still impressive 
 to look at. Even though the single-player campaign is a little too short, the game's intro scene 
 will be worth your money. Nothing beats a parachuting cutscene where all hell breaks loose around 
 you and you get to witness every mayhem helplessly from the gradual drop in mouselook before you 
 land and get into action in a seamless manner. My salute again to one of the best intro scenes 
 ever in a WWII game. Well, I think that may be the reason it deserved its own spin-off in MOH: 
 Airborne. Lastly, it may be much more worth if you just get the MOH Warchest.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkShb
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is by far the best multiplayer game ever made.
  What's disappointing is that EA didn't made anything to support this game.
  Only 2 patches were 
 presented and resolved barely nothing. 
  What makes this game the best, its not its graphics, but the gameplay.
  With that leaning system 
 overpowers every single fps game.
  Ofc if you're looking for high graphic levels, I would surely not recommend Spearhead.
  
  But 
 take as my experience. I've played this game for 2 and a half years now, and I still find it challenging. 
 The community is becoming smaller each day with new releases as CoD4 and Crysis, people will just 
 stop playing Spearhead. IMO, this game should be considered a classic : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DodgeDuty
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 4, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  The single player has a great first mission, a lot better than breakthrough, but it still is way 
 too dark. AI snipers aren't impossibly accurate this time, but infantry can still see you even 
 though you can't see them. Graphics aren't much better, but a real improvement is seeing soldiers 
 shots from their light. Multiplayer is good, with average sized maps for both snipers and run and 
 gunners. Sometimes though you see each other running around in circles jumping up and down next 
 to each other with rifles. I confused this game with Breakthrough, because my other review says 
 the beginning is better in single, even though Spearhead is. This is still a solid game in the 
 multiplayer perspective to Call of Duty even if there are no tanks in MoH. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snarekick
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 31, 2007 10:46 pm PT
Review:  I loved Allied Assault, the game that started the whole WW2 gaming craze. When I heard there was 
 a couple of expansions for the game, I couldn't help but purchase them both. I started with Spearhead 
 and was hoping for an incredible experience, kind of similar to the one COD: United Offensive gave 
 me. I started playing Spearhead, and noticed that it was completely inspired by Band of Brothers 
 in the beginning. Though you are fighting with the British, you jump out of a plane into Normandy 
 and take out some enemy settlements. Then, you're with the Americans, fighting in the snow, bombs 
 dropping on your camp sometimes. And te final level teams you up with the Russians to steal a tank 
 and take out anything german in your path.
  
  This was totally a lot of fun, from start to finish. Unfortunately, start to finish took only less 
 than an hour. There was only like, seven levels in the entire exciting campaign. It was completely 
 short and ended without warning. Now don't get me wrong. Just because it was attrociously short, 
 doesn't mean I didn't enjoy it. I did greatly. The presentation was fantastic. The handle on your 
 weapons stayed strong. The sound was incredible, yet the graphics stayed the same. The two great 
 additions to this game were playing with other countires and that you have a melee attack.
  
  With new weapons and different enviroments in single and multiplayer modes, you can't help 
 but love the expansion, to an extent. Whenever you finish it you ask, Why is this over! Overall, 
 Spearhead is a noteable entry in the Medal of Honor franchise, but only noteable. It could've been 
 an amazing expansion, if longer. In my opinion, it should've been 10 dollars worth, not 30, because 
 the lasting craving to wipe out some Nazis is still there in the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9
Date: May 21, 2007 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: In Medal of Honor: SpearHead you are parachute behind enemy lines as Sgt. Jack Barnes. 
 Machinegun nests light up your buddies. There are nine new single-player and twelve new multiplayer 
 levels take you through Operation Overlord in Normandy, the Battle of the Bulge, and the fall of 
 Berlin. Well there are a few new weapons to play around with in this game which is pretty neat 
 because it gives you more choise. Also there are new weapons added and they are every bit as good 
 as the ones in the original, the British Sten Mark 2 is one great submachine gun, but watch it 
 as it eats ammo at an astonishing rate! You will also encounter the Lee Enfield Rifle, Gewehr 43 
 Sniper rifle, the soviet PPSh41 submachine gun, and the soviet 7.62 mm DTM. So in the multiplayer 
 like I said before there are twelve diffrent levels you can play in. There are a bunch of diffrent 
 modes you can play in to, there is the usually deathmatch, team deathmatch, capture the flag, and 
 the last mode you have to put a bome in the enemy base.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are good, but Spearhead's graphics is identical to Allied Assault, except 
 that there seems to be an awful lot more happening on screen at any given time. More soldiers running 
 one way, more decorative scripted sequences happening in another, and things of this nature. Sound: 
 The sound is very well done, everything sounds like they way they should and the voice acting is 
 really well done aswell. everything is polished from every word, whisper, ricochet, and explosion 
 from Allied Assault has been faithfully recreated here. I recommend setting the quality to high 
 and then cranking the speaker and enjoy the sounds, it's truly exhilarating stuff. Value: All in 
 all this is a very enjoyable game and is a must have expantion for Allied Assult. There is still 
 a little problems with the A. I at times and the Multiplayer part of game seems unralistic and feels 
 like Counterstrike. There is great replayability in the single and muliplayer parts of the game 
 and will give you hours of fun. I give this game 8.9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 22, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor: Allied Assault may be old but it is certainly a gem. With three games avaliable 
 there is around 20 hours of gameplay total, 10 or so in the original, and 5 in each of the expansions.
 
  
  The graphics in AA are decent for its time but the real thing that stood out to me was it's A. I. 
 In 2002 when it was released it's A. I. had to be one of the best in a game out yet. The nazi's 
 take cover often and squeeze shots off from the corners of walls. The move to better posiitions 
 when needed and capitalize on your mistakes when you don't cover yourself well enough. The main 
 point is that they were advanced for their time and it should be acknowleged.
  
  Gameplay in AA moves along well but at time can be unrealistic because you can just spray and pray 
 in close quarters and take barely any damage. From far away it is different, Enemies are snap shots 
 and it takes longer to take them out. Most of the missions have you playing solo or along side 
 a small team of friendlies, usually two or three. Your buddies provide cover fire for you but don't 
 effect the game that much. The solo parts can feel unrealistic because of the amount of enemies 
 you take out but it is still fun. Objectives vary and are different than in most games. Instead 
 of just clearing a bunker or take this area you will have to sabotage enemy vehicles or bomb a 
 certain key position. This aspect makes for a better experience. My only complaint is that you 
 can't choose your weapons or switch them whilst on a mission. This can bog down the fun factor 
 when for example you want to use you M1 Garand upclose but are stuck with a Springfield Sniper 
 Rifle which doesn't perform as well upclose.
  
  In a nutshell Medal of Honor: AA is one of the reasons WWII games became so popular and with the 
 2 expansions you get more gameplay out of Allied Assault. With that said this collection should 
 be on every WWII buffs shelf.
  
  Pros+
  Good shooting/gameplay mechanic, various objectives, Smart A. I.
  
  Cons-
  No weapons choice/switching, 
 graphics are dated for our time, unrealistic missions that you solo without friendly help 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 17, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  The first of Allied Assaults well-deserved encores starts out with what is still one of the most 
 breathtaking parachute jumps Ive seen in any first-person shooter. The game ends with a mad dash 
 across several blocks of downtown Berlin at its worst, followed by some triumphantly destructive 
 backtracking across that same patch of broken ground in one of the Soviet Unions favorite tanks. 
 Between those two events, Spearhead fills its comparatively brief running time with several well-paced 
 skirmishes in the snowy Belgian backcountry, only a few of which I survived before I learned to 
 keep my head down behind cover (as I shouldve learned in the first title, Quake-style running-and-gunning 
 is not a practical gambit in Medal of Honors semi-realistic world) .
  
  Although I was accompanied by a reasonably competent squad of fellow GIs on more occasions than 
 in Spearheads predecessor, the computer-controlled compatriots were still primarily used as window-dressing. 
 Although they helped immensely in many battles  particularly while holding the line on the night 
 when the Nazis tried to steal Christmas in the Ardennes Forest  the friendly soldiers effectiveness 
 is balanced so that the player still must put forth the most effort. Im not complaining  I dont 
 play these games to watch a passel of bots trade slaps  but the trick of ducking out of the fray, 
 even for just a moment, to retrieve a much-needed health pack from an earlier area was out of the 
 question.
  
  That feeling of being trapped in an overly-scripted series of waypoints is only a minor quibble, 
 however. With practice, the hectic events in the Normandy and Ardennes missions feel right, even 
 if I dont get to indulge my habit of wandering around, looking at all the pretty scenery. The 
 Berlin level allows for plenty of sightseeing; there, the amount of detail and motion built into 
 the games design makes even mile after square mile of unsightly rubble profoundly interesting.
 
  
  Spearhead advances the entertaining gameplay and presentation of the first Medal of Honor title 
 with a trio of brief but exciting campaigns. Since Allied Assault and its two mission packs are 
 typically bundled together these days, anyone who owns the first game probably has them all. If 
 not, then I heartily recommend Spearhead, even four years and a number of similarly refined WWII 
 shooters later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajorT1943
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 6, 2006 9:59 pm PT
Review:  The first sequence of the game is one of the most gripping, moving, and historically authentic 
 moments within FPS gaming history. Precisely like the 506th PIR, 101st Arirborne Division's discombobulated 
 airborne drop within drop zones during Operation Overlord, D-day, June 6th, 1944, Normandy Campaign, 
 Cotentin Peninsula, Invasion of mainland Europe, Nazi Occupied France, ETO, WWII you're scattered 
 across the Normandy-French countryside which is swarming with kraut (German Heer branch of the 
 German Werhmacht panzer (armored, mechanized infantry, and artillery) divisions and infantry) divisions 
 attempting to neutralize all allied amphibious and airborne expeditionary force personnel. It so 
 happens to be that the protagonist (main character; your character) Sergeant Barnes (U. S Army (junior 
 non-com) NCO, E-5 enlisted personnel) smashes into a French barnhouse, where an entire kraut rifle 
 squad is positioned. Immediately you whip your M-1 Garand 7.62mm semi-automatic rifle and start 
 blasting away at gerries who are just as surprised as you or I am. After over-running the the lower 
 section of the barnhouse, you must neutralize the opposition of all of the Heer personnel within 
 the perimeter. Climb up the broken-down ladder, but give yourself covering-fire because there is 
 a kraut schutze (private) awaiting your arrival. Don't just wait until he suppress-fires into your 
 face, blow him away! As you advance close to the attic window you might see a poor 101st Airborne 
 private become dismembered by four kraut MP-40s, retaliation is the only option; I remember that 
 I downed all four of the krauts with four rounds. Once you committed that leap from the window, 
 into the stream (first, the grass obviously) capture the first Flugzeugabwehrkanone (quad 20mm 
 anti-aircraft gun) . When advancing upon enemy installations make sure you maintain health, and 
 give yourself covering-fire. From there on you're on your own. Make sure you take in the fresh 
 French summer-night heat. 
  Okay, now down to business. The game flawlessly, and historically takes you through Western Front 
 and Eastern Front European Theater of Operations, post Operation Overlord (during too) as an U. S 
 Army 101st Airborne Division sergeant, Barnes (James maybe) . You also play as a Soviet Red Army 
 junior commissioned officer ranked junior lieutenant, or 2nd lieutenant (U. S Army) . You experience 
 enemy opposition during Operation Overlord (D-day) , Ardennes Offensive (Battle of the Bulge, December 
 16th, 1944- January 25th, 1945) , and the Battle of Berlin (April 14th (16th) , 1945- May 2nd (7th,8th) , 
 1945. Graphics are outstanding, couldn't be any better than the usual "MOH" games. If you ever 
 take your time in the heat of battle to glance at a M42 Jump-Jacket, you will be amazed. The same 
 goes for facial features. This is a clue to me that EA games took their time to create this game. 
 The game engine is fairly innovative since it accurately depicts the city of Berlin, for what it 
 seems for miles. Even the Reichstag looks accurately (Don't worry, I only know because I love history) . 
 The difficulty isn't that indecisive or impenetrable either, it's tactically simple. Value wasn't 
 as outrageous as gamers say it was. Sure it was $30 when "MOH Allied Assault: Spearhead" debuted 
 in 2002. Now it's only $9.99 at "Target", and "Best Buy" when I last checked. It is most definitely 
 worth the money. Gameplay is intense, competent, and fast-paced where orders are continuously barked. 
 There are many historically authentic objectives that will keep you occupied throughout the gaming 
 experience. Sound is highly reinforced and amazing; maybe even mind-blowing. The background music 
 snatches you from your seat especially during suspenseful situations like when you are independently 
 rounding or advancing past corners that possibly are occupied by enemy opposition (I'm unsure what's 
 around the corner) . Any-way, enjoy the game, and like I always say give it a hero's welcome. Battalion, 
 dismissed! 
  -Major T. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gstonyr
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 23, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Allied Assault: Spearhead is definitely one of the best expansions ever made; it 
 came with 3 different main levels, and a great mixture of playing the America, Britain, rasha. 
 You can get a piece of history from each side, not to mention that it tells what really happened 
 in real life. 
  The multiplayer mode is just plain fun, and well... is just plain fun. The graphics are definitely 
 was one of the best at the time. And the sound was just like the original, amazing, and that great 
 backround music. The value is pretty darn good. This was ea's best work, the original, and this 
 expansion. And for only $30 you can get it all. So go one and buy it. Please read my other reviews, 
 especially the other Medal of Honor review, and please give me some FEEDBACK. Thanks.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtrmgamer206
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 22, 2006 1:01 pm PT
Review:  I'm only going to talk about the differences in this game from the original. So, if you want to 
 know more about gameplay, sound, and graphics, read my review on Medal of Honor Allied Assault.
 
  
  First off, if you've ever seen Band of Brothers, this game basically is it. You are in the 101st 
 Airborne and go from Normandy to The Battle of the Bulge to Berlin. In addition to the new weapons 
 and added footage from the 40s, this is the same game as the original. It's fun basically.
  
  The multiplayer is a ton better, with bigger and more realistic maps ad new gameplay modes. 
 
  
  The only thing that is an annoyance is in Normandy (no matter what kind of system you have) there 
 is a humongous slowdown and it really takes away from the experience.
  
  Overall, it is a fun game, but only lasts about 4 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MallratsJaySB
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 15, 2006 12:39 am PT
Review:  After the absolutely wonderful Medal of Honor: Allied Assault, it was only a matter of time before 
 EA released an expansion on their incredibly popular WWII shooter. Medal of Honor Allied Assault: 
 Spearhead is the result. There really isn't much to say about this game that hasn't been said before. 
 If you enjoyed the original Allied Assault, there is no reason you shouldn't like this and vice 
 versa. It's also almost 4 years old which brings down the quality of it somewhat, but it is still 
 one hell of a good game.
  
  The gameplay is there, just like it's always been. It's just as fun to mow down Nazis now as it 
 was in the original Medal of Honor on the Playstation. Besides the obvious first person shooting, 
 there are levels where you will be track shooting and there are levels where you will control the 
 tank and be shooting at the same time. So there is slight variation, but nothing you haven't seen 
 before in the original Allied Assault. This game has some great levels, for example the very first 
 one. The first level finds you dropping out of a plane parachuting behind enemy lines and it is 
 great. It isn't as powerful as Omaha Beach, but it is still something not to be missed.
  
  The graphics, although four years old, hold up surprisingly well. I must say though that after 
 playing graphically gorgeous games like Far Cry and Doom 3, going back to this one is hard to do. 
 It still looks great, but when you're fighting a war, there isn't much variation you can use in 
 the environments. You are either inside a run down building or outside shooting stuff. It does 
 tend to get stale after all these years, but it still looks fine.
  
  The Medal of Honor series has always had great sound. From the shots of the guns, to the roar of 
 the tanks, to the explosions, to the cries of your comrades and enemies on the battlefield, it 
 all sounds superb. There is nothing wrong in this department of the game and the creators deserve 
 all the recognition they get. The sound is the one thing in this game that really immerses you 
 in it, so it is a real pleasure for it to be this good.
  
  All in all, this is a good expansion to an already great game. There isn't much value to it because 
 of the only 3-4 hour play time, but after four years, if you can find it somewhere, it's bound 
 to be very cheap. Every time I play one of the Medal of Honor games, I find more and more respect 
 for the people that died for our liberty. Although this game didn't give me the sadness that Omaha 
 Beach did on the original Medal of Honor, my respect still grows. Although playing this game is 
 enjoyable, knowing that people actually went through this and people lost their sons, fathers, 
 husbands, and friends on both sides is something that needs to be recognized to fully appreciate 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 20, 2006 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor: Spearhead was the first expansion pack for the Medal of Honor : Allied Assault 
 Series. It was released about ten months after the original and provided three quality campaigns 
 to play. Whilst this expansion fixes up some issues of the original, and offers some more intense 
 and exciting cinema-like and scripted gameplay, it all is over fairly quickly.
  
  You still play Sergeant Baker from the original game, and you find yourself fighting through the 
 night before D-Day in France, through the snow of Belgium and through the ruins of Berlin with 
 some pretty cool Russian weaponry. There is more of an emphasis on the squad in this instance, 
 though you are generally on your own in the final campaign.
  
  The opening sequence is superb. It really puts you in the picture for the game, and the atmosphere 
 and immersion never falters. It may be scripted but that doesn't affect the gameplay. The environments 
 and locations are varied and believable - whether clearing out houses, scurrying between bunker 
 to bunker in the snow (or better still, the tank phase of the second campaign) and working through 
 the ruins of Berlin. There are more opportunities to use heavy weaponry in this expansion and thankfully 
 snipers aren't near as accurate, or as near as difficult to find as in the frustrating Sniper Town 
 campaign of the original. Not much has changed in the format - the aim is to complete objectives, 
 which in the main involves firefights and skirmishes with enemies. However, there are some time-based 
 objectives where taking to long means failing and needing to start again. But the gameplay drives 
 you through the missions; it's just that it ends very quickly. I would have spent four and a half 
 hours at most on this, but thankfully that was over three sittings. I reckon finishing the whole 
 game in one sitting would be a bit of a disappointment.
  
  The graphics and sound pretty well remain the same as Medal of Honor: Allied Assault - but there 
 are a few subtle improvements. The graphics would be slightly better on the whole. The environments, 
 the enemies (and your allies) , the machinery and the backdrops just seem that little bit crisper 
 - as you would expect from an expansion. The music is more of the same classical pomp and ceremony, 
 but it all fits pretty in the gaming environment quite well. The explosions and the gunfire is 
 top notch and the voice acting / scripting is all good as well.
  
  I think I would have been pretty annoyed to have paid $AUD50 for this a few years ago. It offers 
 at most five hours of gameplay for single player, though there is some advancement with the multiplayer. 
 It is perhaps the shortest game I've played. But it was action packed and immersive from start 
 to finish. The first campaign is a beauty, no doubt about that. However, I didn't pay that much 
 - more like $AUD 6 or $AUD 7, having picked up the total "Battle Chest" for $22. So for that price, 
 this was OK. There's is not that much replayability, but it will stay in the collection.
  
  Even though this is close to four years old, Medal of Honor: Spearhead still looks and plays well 
 and is a genuine option in the flooded market of FPS games. What you get here is three quality 
 campaigns that at least match the best ones of the original. Of course you need the original - 
 so if you have that and thought a few years back that this was a bit pricey, find it now for a 
 fraction of the original cost and enjoy the short but sharp action that this expansion pack has 
 to offer
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big-Head
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 9, 2006 10:35 am PT
Review:  If you were interested in buying this game if you already have Allied Assault, I wouldn't get excited. 
 The game is good, and it's slightly better then Allied Assault in every category, but it's the 
 same old thing. The graphics are better, and there's been new weapons added. Different snipers 
 and rifles, new SMG replacing the Allies Thompson, and for the Axis there's this grenade launcher 
 sort of thing. Oh yah and there's smoke grenades. The gameplay is good and yet again the multi-player 
 is fun. The new online levels are fun to get use to. Also I find the campaign harder, that makes 
 it fun. I know it's the expansion pack, but I'm already use to Allied Assault, it's all the same. 
 I can't say it's totally bad, I don't regret buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbo0827
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 3, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor is a better game for the PC than the consoles. This may change when Airborne is 
 released but right now this is the case. Spearhead is the same as Allied Assualt except more missions 
 involving the arctic. Graphics are the same as Allied Assualt and gameplay is still the same, but 
 the beginning is great. You do this paratrooping mission as the British somewhere in Eastern Europe. 
 This level is pretty tough if you run around the whole time but it is very exciting. After this 
 the game switches to winter missions where you spend most of the time in the cold outdoors. If 
 you are a big Medal of Honor fan then you would check out Spearhead but if you want a more realistic 
 approach in warfare then stay away from this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdhnightwolf
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 3, 2006 3:23 pm PT
Review:  A great game that got a nice facelift. If you were getting sick of the levels that were given out 
 in Allied Assault, this game will refill your tank with a ton of levels that are rigged for close 
 encounters.
  
  The single player game can once again be satisfying, but the multiplayer mode is where this baby 
 shines. The graphics and gameplay are essentially the same as the previous game, but the levels 
 make this game what it is. Not too big, and not too small. Plenty of room to hide and some great 
 areas to takedown your opponents from.
  
  This is one expansion that everyone should have. If you own Allied Assault, get this to go with 
 it. You won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 17, 2006 12:22 am PT
Review:  I reckon, it is always happens that second part of the game or soooo highly addvertised game expansion 
 packs are not always quiet impresive as its original copy. But however in some points MOH: Spearhead 
 it is not too bad to claim that fact that this pack is sucks, most of my friends didn't like this 
 game. personally I reckon that it is worth to play this pack as a completion of MOH series (Hopefully 
 not :) ) ) ) . And I did. well designed game, fair enough interesting game story line, graphicaly 
 not bad sound is great. 
  
  most likely I liked in this game the storyline, well lets just say missions... very addictive impression 
 from first look, and thats why I finished this game within 3.5 hours.... with some sightseeing walks... thats 
 mean if you want you can finish the game faster than that.
  
  However there is not any rush, just enjoy your game... you might see some new features in game 
 or may be not. Well it is up to you to decide is game good or not.
  
  Looking forward for next level pack of darkish WW II sh**ter! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rossi-2k6
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 10, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  I've never jumped from a plane into a sea of bullets, death, and evil people, but I'd imagine Spearhead 
 is about as accurate a portrayal of that sensation as we've yet seen in any game. Not too surprising. 
 But then nor should it be. Spearhead is, after all, the awaited and currently debated expansion 
 pack to what was one of the first and still best action games of 2002. 
  
  Allied Assault had a knack for thrusting gamers headlong into the most brutal and devastating war 
 of our time, all the while keeping them cherishing nearly each and every single moment of it. But 
 there were instances that were less than enjoyable -- situations that were so frustrating they 
 broke keyboards, destroyed mice, ruined careers and even soured steamy relationships. At least 
 that was her excuse. 
  Spearhead largely does away with these troubles and instead tries to focus on the parts of Medal 
 of Honor that gamers most fondly remember. Epic assaults, impending doom, urgency, immediacy, a 
 sense of being overwhelmed, and camaraderie are all here. A small group of roughnecks, BARs in 
 hand, will win the day. 
  
  These better aspects of the entirely stellar Allied Assault have all been focused on for Spearhead. 
 However, when the main course of boiled potatoes and meatloaf is cut out and supplanted with three 
 helpings of the creme brulee the dinner becomes neither lasting nor filling. As a result, Spearhead's 
 length suffers. Yup, it's about three hours of gratification. 
  
  War is this time played out in front of the eyes of Jack Barnes, a personality devoid hero extraordinaire 
 capable of doing anything and everything. He also happens to be the greatest nemesis Nazi Germany 
 has ever faced. Zombies? The Plague? A volcano that shoots out lava and Godzilla who's throwing 
 clumps of lava? None of them can touch Jack. As our boy Barnes, gamers will decimate the ranks 
 of Germany's feeble but stylish army by manning about two dozen weapons, anti-aircraft, moveable 
 turrets, and even a tank with top mounted machinegun. 
  
  It starts with a bang and then falls off from there, literally. Jumping out of a plane with half 
 a dozen or more other troops and then watching whatever plan there was explode in your face alongside 
 bursting flak, flaming planes and falling bodies is plain awesome. Machinegun nests light up your 
 buddies. Men without chutes plummet to their deaths. Search lights scan the skies for clumps of 
 victims. 
  
  Superb sound that still has few rivals in today's marketplace pulls it together. Know now that 
 the polish of every word, whisper, ricochet, and explosion from Allied Assault has been faithfully 
 recreated here. In case you haven't played Medal of Honor in a while, I recommend setting the quality 
 to high and then cranking the speaker volume to levels that would kill lesser men -- truly exhilarating 
 stuff. 
  
  Incredibly loud and chaotic action sequences are spliced together masterfully with quiet, but gunfire 
 riddled sorties. Total immersion is the end result. The game transitions seamlessly from a loud 
 and impacting battle to one where only a few fires in the dark can be heard, yet they brilliantly 
 manage to carry an even more profound effect than the chaos. 
  
  Same awesome sound. Same awesome dialog. A lot of these men actually sound like war heroes, and 
 those who don't sound like soldiers caught up in something they don't want any part of. It's unfortunate 
 then that like Allied Assault, Spearhead is more of a loosely connected jumble of missions than 
 anything. There is no character development, bonding, worrying, or empathy of any kind. 
  
  But then I doubt anyone will give much of a damn when six Germans come pouring out of a small cottage. 
 Ample scripting makes Spearhead sing the same captivating tune as its older brother, which sounds 
 something like ka-boom, ka-clang, ka-boom, zing, ra-ta-tat-tat. 
  
  There's a tremendous sense of urgency and uneasiness inherent with each of the missions. Fostered 
 by pacing and a rapid but logical change of scenery (from an airdrop to inside a barn, to a pleasant 
 countryside, to a hill with a tank, for instance) , it all manages to mesh, fit, and work. For the 
 whole three hours it lasts, anyway. The problem is that there just isn't enough of the sweet. Since 
 the game is by nature linear (if you think you can walk there, you probably can't) , the limited 
 amount of linearity is quite... limiting, stupidly enough. 
  
  It doesn't help that Spearhead seems to suffer from even worse performance issues than Medal of 
 Honor did before it, at least in singleplayer and heavy multiplayer bouts. GeForce 3's married 
 to 1GHz Athlons and dating 384MB of RAM on the side still suffer from some serious and horribly 
 debilitating, inconsistent and downright unplayable framerates. At one point during play on such 
 a test system (well kempt, mind you) , I became so enraged by the performance that I actually turned 
 every single setting down to the bare bones minimum and played knowing that it would at last remain 
 smooth, which it didn't. Then my left arm spontaneously combusted. It seems stress hits me in waves. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: janoma
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 11, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  "Welcome to the Medal of Honor Allied Assault: Spearhead installation. This package offers new 
 guns, new characters and a new multi-player mode."
  
  - Cool! It was about time for a MOHAA patch
  
  "It also brings you nine levels in three locations 
 across Europe, each one being a mission (France, Belgium and of course, Germany) ..."
  
  - Wow It is like a whole new game!, what an expansion!
  
  "... which you will play during a 
 few hours listening to the same (perfect) music before noticing the game just ended. Then you will 
 exit the program and jump from the second floor."
  
  This could be the installation wizard of MOHAA: S if not for how ridiculous it would be. The game 
 is still good --especially the music -- , but gee! the three new missions are honestly too short 
 to be considered an 'expansion'.
  
  I'd prefer to talk about Spearhead as a 'big patch'. Maybe as the spearhead that was lacking in 
 the Allied Assault spear. Maybe as the expected hurried sequel to a great hit, as MOHAA was. And 
 maybe if EA had worked for a few more months, this game could have been a worthy successor of MOHAA 
 as well as a worthy reason to visit the videogames store (except for the price, though...) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimbo-b
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 9, 2006 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Allied Assualt is one of my favorite PC games, but Spearhead is a little disappointing. First off, 
 this game is short, very short. Second, the level design just isn't as good as Allied Assualt's. 
 Graphics are improved some but are basically the same. The whole feel of the game just isn't as 
 impressive or intense as Allied Assualt. Germans aren't that smart and the ending level is a bit 
 of a letdown. The guns are the best part about the game; they are fun to use and sound excellent. 
 As does all the audio. Worth a buy as part of a package but not alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersabado102
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 28, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  its ghetto give it a 1`0 i think this is one of the best multiplayer demo shooters it has good 
 graphics and great mods overall its a really fun game 
 
  c
  xz
  c
  sdfc
  sd
  czx
  c
  xz
  
  z
  cszd
  fsdkfnSDIURDHFuywerqwejoird 89q3jedklanjiusadydwe897  
 d am dxnasdnasd ad dsanm dans dnmas dmn asmnd asmnd man dan dmna dmn asmdn amsnd asn dnsa dnm, asn 
 danb djasbdj ies ffjsd jf ss fsj fhsd fjsd jdf s fksdjnf vkeria dffo oefasdfj idsfifo a df a tiojiofj 
 reiofasdjar jf dfj aei d iofjdoiajg i zeta oijdfgoidfjoigj efdio s fdjfogodjgdfo d o gd djodfjg 
 idfjg od dgdjgoijod jo ddoo jg ooos ds dfsfoisd f sd fo  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom1327
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 17, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Spearhead offers the same successful mix of fast-paced squad-level combat and eventful, heavily 
 scripted levels that characterized Allied Assault, though a few of Allied Assault's less successful 
 elements have been removed or fixed. For instance, there are only a few sections of Spearhead in 
 which you're without some sort of computer-controlled squadmates. The deadly accuracy of enemy 
 snipers has also been toned down to the point that they're no longer extremely frustrating, as 
 they were in the original game. You can also lean to the side in the single-player campaign, which 
 makes dealing with snipers even less of a frustrating problem.
  
  Spearhead doesn't noticeably improve on Allied Assault's visuals, but the graphics that looked 
 great 10 months ago are still just as impressive. The expansion does add a few brand-new and intriguing 
 environmental effects, such as trees that snap in half as you pound them with mounted guns. The 
 sound effects and the original's excellent music have likewise been left unimproved and were likewise 
 not in need of much improvement.
  
  Allied Assault's multiplayer component is already very popular. But if you're not a fan of it yet, 
 there isn't anything in the expansion that will change your mind. Spearhead features 12 new maps 
 (13, if you include the Malta map that's currently available only in the playable demo but may 
 be imported into the full game with a future patch) , one new game type, some relatively inconsequential 
 new weapons, and a bunch of small adjustments to both its interface and gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2006 6:23 am PT
Review:  If you've ever dreamt of playing part in a war movie, Medal of Honor: Allied Assault and its expansion, 
 Spearhead, are for you. Starting with the opening sequence and continuing through the final battle, 
 Spearhead oozes style and atmosphere. From the forests of the Ardennes to bombed-out Berlin, each 
 set piece could have been pulled from a Hollywood studio. Each and every mission is tense and fraught 
 with danger, much as I would expect every moment on the front lines to be. Skulking through the 
 streets of Berlin, taking refuge behind every bit of cover, only to take a shot from a sniper that 
 sends you reeling and spinning; watching a truck loaded with Nazi soldiers come rolling toward 
 you on a dark night in the French countryside; frantically trying to get out of your parachute 
 before you are mowed down by Axis gunners... moments like these abound, and make for a very satisfying 
 experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazethe1
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 2, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  i havnt played the single player section, mostly because im no history buff, and i dont get into 
 games that dont pull very hard. it also depends on how interested i am. theres not much to this 
 game other than new multiplayer levels and i think theres a new game type. i know i wouldnt hav 
 bought this if it had come with my game, which is the only reason i hav it. thats pretty much all 
 i can say about it. im sorry if this IS a good expansion and i just didnt see it in the little 
 time i played it, but i normally hav a good judgment on games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silvioniall
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 22, 2005 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Spearhead Was Good At the beggining But dude... not anymore when i discovered Call of Duty online 
 i mean Why is this..?? I have 712Mb ram and 5600GT Gforce and Medal of honor spearhead makes a 
 128mb ram game!
  I played Medal of Honor Spearhead online for 2 years now and i was a pro at it but now i discovered 
 call of duty and lost spearhead's addict... well my message is .. If you have just bought a new 
 gaming pc DONT LOOK AT SPEARHEAD But if you bought a sedcond hand 2nd hand pc with intel pentium 
 3 just try spearhead :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatm781
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 29, 2005 10:44 am PT
Review:  The Medal of Honor SpearHead is an expansion pack for Medal of Honor Allied Assualt PC title. This 
 expansion pack offers some cool new levels, and some diverse gameply but is not all its cracked 
 up to be. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are good. The enviorments are believeable, as are the weapons and character 
 models. But my copy, (don't know if its just mine) had a bunch of glithy moments, it would freeze 
 up often and ruin some of the action. My PC is well equipped to handle the game, I tried it on 
 two PCs and it did the same -- don't know if its just my copy.
  
  Sound: the sound was perfect for a WWII game, the weapon sound, the voices, the background noise, 
 all a great.
  
  Gameplay: I enjoyed the gameplay quite a bit, when it wasn't jaggy. There are some cool missions, 
 but the game is fairly short, but I had fun with it.
  
  Pick this up if you enjoyed Medal of Honor AA, but if you didn't have much fun with AA leave thisone 
 on the shelf. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickmehn2
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 25, 2005 3:12 pm PT
Review:  What we have here is EA's slick presentation (minus a few points for the cumbersome menu system) 
 binding a brief campaign through Normandy, set in the wake of a botched parachute landing. Although 
 development has shifted to EA's Los Angeles studio (with 2015 now working on something secret for 
 Vivendi) , none of the spirit of the original has been lost - every soldier's a hero with no qualms 
 about walking into certain death for his country, you still find yourself taking on vast swathes 
 of Germans in increasingly elaborate set pieces, and it's still hair-amputatingly frustrating from 
 time to time and book-ended by gravely narrated wartime footage. 
  
  Despite EA LA's adherence to the formula though, a number of unwanted changes have crept into the 
 game's make-up, starting with the one major technical amendment - the addition of smoke. As we 
 told you last month, France, 1944 is a very smoky place. Grenades line your belt and each explosion 
 sees enormous, volumetric wisps of the stuff gorging themselves on the cold winter's air. But it's 
 a throwaway effect in the grand scheme of things, and merely leads the gameplay to stutter. 
  
  One of our chief concerns with Spearhead is the peculiarly heightened system requirements. 
 If Allied Assault and Spearhead's respective manuals are to be believed, then nothing has changed, 
 but even a cursory visual comparison is enough to convince you otherwise. Playing on a regularly 
 watered 1.2GHz Athlon system with a 32MB GeForce3, a system Allied Assault was quite comfortable 
 with, Spearhead shudders and heaves whenever smoke billows or soldiers congregate. Drop the detail 
 and it's still no good - there's something fundamentally chuggy about it. This quickly interferes 
 with your fun, too, especially when you realise that each set piece is preceded by the whole rig 
 lurching violently, and as a result you work out how to spot them... 
  
  It isn't just the engine that needs tuning though; it's grey matter on both sides of the conflict. 
 Your squad mates are still totally useless, killing a token German for each situation and leaving 
 you to trawl through houses with a full magazine, but as long as you can keep them alive you're 
 happy. (Don't you just hate it when the game auto-saves three seconds before your squad is wiped 
 out, thus automatically failing the mission for you?) 
  
  Now, the Germans themselves, well, they've lost a lot of their guile and quick wits. Admittedly 
 Allied Assault was often guilty of being ridiculously hard, with snipers in every window attuned 
 to your presence before you even arrived, but it seems that EA LA has taken things to the other 
 extreme. Guards still pop up from nowhere and open fire, but now it's only the machine gunners 
 and mortar-wielding bastards that are hideously accurate, with some of the Germans failing even 
 to fire once. During a routine trawl through a French village early on, we found ourselves out 
 of ammo and facing a German guard in a doorway. He flatly ignored our soldier. It wasn't until 
 we went up and smacked him with a rifle butt that he noticed. 
  
  That said, quite why anybody would notice someone with a total lack of personality like our Sgt. 
 Jack Barnes is anyone's guess. As with Allied Assault's nameless hero (well, he had a name, but 
 we can't remember it) , Barnes is a man with words only for the intermission, and again Spearhead 
 is completely devoid of story, companionship, heroics, or any form of compassion. And in achieving 
 a 15+ rating from the ELSPA it avoids any form of blood or gore - shoot an enemy in the neck and 
 he'll gurgle his way to the ground double-quick, but he won't spill an iota of claret. With so 
 little cleaning up to do it's a wonder that 'quick load' takes any time at all. 
  
  It's not all bad though. There's a lot to be said for the cinematic parachute landing, the trip 
 through Belgium and the predictably explosive finale. Missions and objectives are constantly varied 
 albeit linear, and playing through it with the volume up and the visuals maxed out (assuming you 
 upgrade to a cutting edge machine) , it's difficult not to be immersed once again in the rigours 
 of warfare. As long as you liked Allied Assault and can handle the cut and paste presentation (complete 
 with the same sound and the same mix of English, American and German voiceovers) and the sensation 
 of 'same old, same old', then the only thing that stands to halt you is the game's worrying brevity. 
 
  
  Rather like Half-Life's Blue Shift expansion, Spearhead is over in barely three hours. That's less 
 than 200 minutes, about two footy matches, less time than it takes me to drive home from work and 
 about eight hours shy of its predecessor. Of course it was to be expected, and EA has also tightened 
 up MOHAA's net code and introduced 12 new maps to spice up the multiplayer side of things, but 
 the parts aren't enough to make a valuable whole. It's only because Spearhead chimes in at 20 quid 
 or thereabouts that we don't rip it apart - as it is, it's rather like buying a DVD of your favourite 
 war flick. You know its flaws and you tolerate them because it's entertaining in the short term, 
 but you probably won't get much out of your investment in the long run. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Parry100
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 23, 2005 5:08 am PT
Review:  Let me review both this and Breakthrough at the same time- the two expansions, since they are nearly 
 identical, just with different campeigns:
  
  Gameplay is Better than any other MOH games to date, amazingly good and fun set pieces unlike many 
 other utter failures by EA (I'm looking at you Frontline!) Not only that, these were be the first 
 MOH games where your not constantly alone, I always hated this and thought it was stupidly unrealistic- 
 being in a war and all. Artifitial intelegence isn't bad at all in these, enemy's won't mindlessly 
 run at you, and EA has even managed to involve some trench warfare.
  
  There's enough levels to keep you busy here, both the expansions have a full campeign as does the 
 original Allied Assault game. Online play is always fairly active and I've spent many an hour on 
 it. There's plenty of mods etc. available adding to replayability.
  
  Graphics are better than most other MOH games, the textures look fairly nice, and theres some nice 
 physics in there such as walls blowing up and trees falling over.
  
  Generally the best MOH game I've played- Though I haven't tried Pacific Assault or European Assault, 
 but this is definately a contender and a very good game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fahrenheit1221
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 24, 2005 12:52 am PT
Review:  Spearhead is probably one of the best expansion packs, realistically most expansion packs fail 
 big time and fail to deliver any new features or innovations, this one however includes quite a 
 few... where to begin.
  
  There are about 20 new guns in Spearhead, the best weapons in the series in my opinion. The new 
 British weapnons are very well made, the Lee Enfield and the Sten Mark are both great weapons. 
 The Russian weapons are my personal favorite. The Mosin Nagant Rifle is one of the most accurate 
 and technically precise weapons on the entire game, if not the most. The Nagant Revolver is also 
 a very precision-sensitive weapon that is equally as deadly when used effectively.
  
  There are about 40 new multiplayer skins, no longer is it simply Axis and Allies now there are 
 German, America, British and Russian soldiers to choose from. This makes it easier to differ yourself 
 from your teammates and to tell people apart. 
  
  There are about 10 new multiplayer maps and several new gameplay types, namely "Tug-of-War" which 
 involves objective based gameplay but with several objectives that can be fought for back and forth, 
 hence the name "Tug-of-War."
  
  There is also the introduction of the smoke grenades and the ability to bash with every weapon 
 with the exception of the Sniper Rifles. The smoke grenades give a tactical edge to the seasoned 
 veterans, they provide a dense foggy smoke making it impossible to see giving an advantage to the 
 one who deploys it.
  
  The single player campaign is a bit too short but it is overshadowed by the new multiplayer innovations. 
 Spearhead overall is a success, especially to fans loyal to the Allied Assault series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: child1
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 18, 2004 9:02 pm PT
Review:  MOH: Allied Assault, was an awesome game, and is still an awesome game today. The game had lots 
 of missions and variety in it, as well as breathtaking sound a good graphics. When people finally 
 got tired of MOH, a new one came out, Spearhead. MOH: Spearhead is an expansion that adds 9 new 
 missions to the game, including D-Day, Battle of the bulge, and more. The expansion is a nice addition 
 and is welcomed by MOH lovers. The Sound is still excellent, and the graphics were kept up to date 
 during the time. 
  
  There is a lot of great things to MOH, but the game falls a little too short, only adding a few 
 hours to some great gameplay. The game is very intense at times, and very quiet during others. 
 The game can come to be pretty tough because you are by yourself a big portion of the game, like 
 the others in the series. For the most part, Medal Of Honor: Spearhead is a great addition that 
 adds some memorable moments to it, but falls short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ANSteve
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 14, 2004 8:51 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honor: Allied Assaults expansion Spearhead is one of the best games Ive ever played, 
 and certainly the best expansions. Fixing the vast majority of the problems with Allied Assault 
 (in particular those pesky snipers) , adding more actions, more allies, and new weapons Spearhead 
 features my favorite FPS campaign ever. The problem is  its just to short. While the first 2 sections 
  D-Day and the Battle of the Bulge are amazing the Berlin missions have some problems with direction 
 and difficult, all while slowing down that fast paced gameplay of previous levels. All in all this 
 makes an already short campaign even weaker, only saving itself by a strong finish (there is tanks, 
 need I say more.)
  
  Gameplay  For the majority of levels in Spearhead youll have a few decent allies fighting alongside 
 you, including American and British soldiers. Couple that with the most intense action to date 
 in a first person shooter and you have an amazing campaign. Featuring well thought out missions 
 that dont leave you wondering where to go while at the same time providing some open space in 
 which to operate in your own style. The bottom line is that Spearhead improves on Allied Assault 
 in many ways which was, of course, a great shooter in its own right.
  
  Graphics and Sound  Spearhead features the same great graphics and sound (with a few new effects 
 for items) seen in the original Allied Assault and they are still impressive as ever. For more 
 information see my Medal of Honor: Allied Assault review.
  
  Value  This is the real issue with Spearhead. Although it does introduce a few multiplayer maps 
 the multiplayer really just falls by the wayside and the campaign is just to short. To put it bluntly 
 Spearhead really just falls short of being a great value at $30 BUT in the end for its great few 
 hours of gameplay and addition to the multiplayer I still recommend Spearhead to someone looking 
 for a few very solid hours of gameplay.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackhawk887
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 14, 2003 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Hardcore fans of the original Medal of Honor Allied Assault (like me) may want to think twice before 
 purchasing a game like Spearhead. The game, as an expansion pack, doesn't have a whole lot to offer, 
 as one would expect. EALA changed the gameplay style, and in some cases this doesn't turn out to 
 be a good thing. They failed @ trying to make it a more realistic game, and IMHO made the game 
 worse. The single player is mediocre, and multiplayer is fair. Some new weapons, maps, etc.. Bottom 
 line: Only buy this game if you're new to the MoH series and want to see all that it has to offer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Royas
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 30, 2003 8:40 pm PT
Review:  MOHAA Spearhead was a great game, full of intense action, tight situations and all the "accurate" 
 mood that the original MOHAA was great for. With a great variety of situations, and the opportunities 
 to do everything from s****ing from a window to shooting down a fighter plane with an AA gun, it 
 can't be said that this expansion forced a player into the same role time and time again. My only 
 complaint, and I have to say that it is a rather large one, is how short the game was. I'm at best 
 a mediocre player of FPS games, and even I was able to finish it in a single sitting, in under 
 6 hours. I do understand that it adds a great deal to the multiplayer scene, but for a player who 
 has no interest in playing online, it just fails to offer as good a value for the price as it could.
 
  
  In short, a good game, great action, well designed. But way too short, needs to be about 3 times 
 as long at least to be really worth its price tag. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
