-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Medal of Honor Allied Assault Breakthrough
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/mohaabreakthrough/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 22, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 6.9, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 1,404 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: TKO Software
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date:     Sep 22, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
There really isn't much to Medal of Honor Allied Assault Breakthrough that those who've played the 
 original and its first expansion haven't already seen before. 

  Given the current popularity of war-themed first-person shooters, it's no wonder that one of the 
 best WWII shooters, Medal of Honor Allied Assault, would get a second expansion pack. Medal of 
 Honor Allied Assault Breakthrough takes you to previously unexplored parts of the European theater. 
 Unexplored doesn't necessarily mean fresh, though, and while Breakthrough has a little more meat 
 to it than the first expansion, Spearhead, it ends up being repetitious and stale.  

          Once again you'll be on your own fighting Axis soldiers.     

  The original Allied 
 Assault consisted of several missions, which in turn had many levels. Breakthrough doesn't change 
 this formula, and consists of about a dozen new levels. These comprise three missions, which will 
 take you to North Africa, Sicily, and finally mainland Italy. The individual levels are varied 
 and will take you about six hours to complete in total. You will destroy German artillery, rescue 
 prisoners, and drive assorted vehicles, among other things. The individual levels don't fit together 
 to form a cohesive whole -- you're dumped onto a battlefield and given objectives, without any explanation 
 as to your ultimate purpose.  

  The drive into Italy was important because it split German resources in Western Europe, especially 
 when Mussolini toppled from power. You'd never know it from the game, though; all you ever get 
 are cutscenes with war footage and famous quotations. Similarly, it would be nice to know how you 
 are making a difference in the war as you complete objectives. Not that anyone will be there to 
 notice your achievements -- you will spend most of the game fighting alone. Whenever there are Allied 
 soldiers nearby, they get killed more often than not. You can try to save their lives -- we really 
 tried -- but these soldiers are just doomed to die. At any rate, only in the first part of the first 
 mission and the last part of the last mission do you ever get a feeling that there's a war being 
 waged around you.  

  These few intense battle sequences are actually quite fun. The sandstorm in Africa drastically 
 limits your visibility, so you need to push ahead and try to find where gunshots are coming from. 
 The next level has you protecting a minesweeper as it attempts to clear a minefield. The castle 
 at the end of the game at Monte Cassino has Germans and Allies fighting all over the place, and 
 you can hear gunfire and screams coming from all directions. You have to fend off wave after wave 
 of German attacks in several key positions on the map.  

  The problem is that these moments are too few and far between. The majority of Breakthrough is 
 rather forgettable because it is too similar to the previous Allied Assault missions. A lot of 
 times you'll be riding on a vehicle shooting at enemies that pop up like targets at a firing range, 
 or you'll have to lay explosives on artillery. You again have a mission in which you must use papers 
 to fool the Germans and Italians so you can sneak around their base. Sometimes these recycled elements 
 are made to be challenging, but they end up becoming save-reload moments. For example, you'll be 
 stuck in a building and have to repel a tank assault. You have mortars to fend them off, but the 
 problem is that there is a huge delay between when you fire and where you see the mortar land. 
 It will take a few tries until you get the positioning correct for the first wave. But then more 
 waves come, forcing you to figure out positioning again before the tanks breach the wall. There's 
 a similar situation when you have to cover escaping prisoners from snipers. Having to save and 
 reload until you figure out the exact pattern and locations of an enemy isn't what makes a shooter 
 fun to play.  

  Breakthrough has other gameplay elements that are becoming outdated. One example is enemies spawning 
 out of nowhere. You may see a health pack lying off the path where an MG42 is resting in a bunker. 
 If you get the health pack, dozens of Germans will come at you in front of the MG42. But if you 
 don't get that health pack and instead run off where the Germans would spawn, no one will be there 
 to greet you. The AI is also substandard. Enemies will sometimes find cover, but they will just 
 rush at you in open areas more often than not. You can just hide around a corner and wait for more 
 of the enemies to run at you so you can mow them down. The game relies on accuracy to differentiate 
 between the difficulty levels, but there's still a big gap between difficulty levels -- which was 
 a problem in the original Allied Assault and the Spearhead expansion. The normal difficulty is 
 too easy because you can rush right into enemy locations and find many health packs. But the hard 
 difficulty is nearly impossible without saving and reloading often. These gameplay elements just 
 don't hold up in today's games, because the shooter genre has evolved so much over the past two 
 years.  

  At least Breakthrough remains consistent with its inability to change. The graphics have not been 
 noticeably improved, which is to say that the engine has seen better days. The weaponry is basically 
 the same as well. The few new weapons in the game are just slight variations on weapons that were 
 already in the original -- there's no reason to get the game based on an Italian rifle that is functionally 
 equivalent to the German ones you've already used. The game does look reasonably good, but not 
 nearly as impressive as Medal of Honor: Allied Assault did when it was first released. On the other 
 hand, the sound in the game continues to be very impressive. Medal of Honor Allied Assault Breakthrough 
 sounds fantastic with its gunfire, bullets whizzing by you, and vehicle noises.  

          Clipping issues like this should not be found in today's games.     

  Breakthrough 
 includes nine new multiplayer maps and a new multiplayer mode called liberation. Liberation is 
 a team-based game where dead players are put in a jail with no weapons. Soldiers on your team can 
 come and rescue you from jail. Once you step out of the jail zone, you are given back your weapons. 
 Rounds can theoretically last forever if people are continually rescued, so teams must also defend 
 their own jail to keep enemies from rescuing their dead. Like all team-based modes, liberation 
 requires teams to know what they are doing. Oftentimes only one person will remain who will refuse 
 to rescue his teammates and will instead go on a hunt to kill enemies. But overall it's a fun gameplay 
 mode to complement the other multiplayer modes found in Allied Assault.  

  There really isn't much to Medal of Honor Allied Assault Breakthrough that you haven't already 
 seen before, and it's definitely not a product that will make people go out and buy Medal of Honor 
 Allied Assault if they haven't already. It's even hard to recommend to those who already have Allied 
 Assault because of its $30 price tag, so unless you're dying for more of the same type of action 
 that Allied Assault first offered in January of last year, you would probably be better off spending 
 your time and money on something else.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (28 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 10:10 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 6
  Graphics: 6
  Sounds: 8
  Value: 7
  Tilt: 6
  
  Medal of Honor: Breakthrough is the second expansion pack to the massively popular Medal of Honor: 
 Allied Assault campaign. Considering that both Allied Assault and Spearhead concentrated predominantly 
 on the European theatre, Breakthrough is based in African and Italy hence bringing in a fresh approach 
 to the World War II FPS genre. However the short campaign, outdated graphics and somewhat re-hashed 
 game play doesnt make this game unique enough to become a memorable experience.
  
  You play the role of Sgt. John Baker of the famed US 34th Infantry Division where like the previous 
 two MoH games, getting the opportunity to re-enact the campaigns that can be regarded as turning 
 points of the war. Therefore Sgt Baker will face the Battle of Kasserine Pass, the fall of Bizerte, 
 the bloody Battle of Monte Cassino and lastly defending Anzio, Italy. Plus keeping up the Medal 
 of Honor experience, once you have completed each of these three large missions will entitled you 
 to earn all the prestigious Medal of Honor badges to add to your collection. A further medal can 
 be added for completing the entire campaign on easy, medium or hard difficulty levels.
  
  Keeping on the experience that made Allied Assault popular, expect Breakthrough to have the same 
 intense fire fights therefore you'll constantly be outgunned and outmanned. But all is not lost 
 as youll get the opportunity to man mounted machine guns on the back of jeeps (which requires 
 pure luck than skill) , have fellow allies to fight alongside you (and die just as fast) and complete 
 those stealthy missions (which ultimately results in mowing down hundreds of Germans before the 
 mission ends) . So as you can see that nothing has really changed yet there are some few new innovations 
 that bring sparks to the somewhat rehashed game play. These innovations are searching for mines 
 (using a mine detector) and showing papers (note: these are different papers from the previous 
 MoH games) . Very exciting stuff dont you agree?
  
  The once all powerful Quake III engine is now showing its age as Breakthrough is now a sight for 
 sore eyes. Yet considering this engine is famed to be highly changeable, its sad to see 
 that the developers made no attempts to even ramp up the landscapes as it really feels like the 
 same European locations save the different colours. Thankfully though, the maps are very large 
 and well designed therefore you will have a sense of adventure trotting from one end of the map 
 to the other. At times when I can see the end of the mission up ahead, I normally run back to the 
 start of the map only to walk the entire distance to admire the 'handywork' I have done yet its 
 purely a novelty than anything else. 
  
  On the other hand the sound quality is still top-notch as there are a few new scores that are tailored 
 to this game hence made it somewhat a class on its own. Other noticeable features are Italian spoken 
 AIs, more ambience sounds like crackling fires and sparks from overhead wires will make the player 
 feel for the game instead of playing in the game. And if you have invested quality speakers, Breakthrough 
 has some really cool surround sounds effects that at times will make you swing your head away from 
 the screen only to realise these sounds are actually produced from the game itself. 
  
  Being an expansion pack, dont expect epic length campaigns. There are three main campaigns 
 to complete and each of these three campaigns has approximately two to three parts for which consist 
 of approximately four missions. That said, expect to invest probably four to six hours to complete 
 the single player campaign. Thankfully though, the online feature has an additional game mode called 
 Liberation where its very similar to the favourite 'Jailbreak'. The premise is basically 
 a death match style form when once killed only to spawn at the enemys jail. The player can 
 only be saved by his team mates when opening the jail cell and the only way to end the game is 
 when the entire team is in jail. 
  
  Breakthrough promises new locations that in principle spark up to that ever-saturated WW2 European 
 theatre yet predominantly only uses rehashed graphics, sounds and game play. Also considering the 
 highly anticipated Call of Duty is around the corner really makes you feel that Breakthrough is 
 more of a cash cow than a sparkling new chapter to the Medal of Honor series. Its a shame 
 that the final chapter ended like this so I can only recommend this game to the die hard MoH fans 
 otherwise save a couple of bucks and get Call of Duty or instead get the MoH War Chest for the 
 complete MoHAA package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orcmonkey3000
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 28, 2008 8:03 am PT
Review:  There is little to say about Medal of Honor: Allied Assault Breakthrough that could not have been 
 said about the original game. It offers varied mission objectives, engaging gameplay, and intense 
 multiplayer in an authentic presentation that once again raises the bar for World War II shooters. 
 Its graphics and audio are somewhat outdated nowadays, but were quite good for its time. The multiplayer 
 community is as large as ever, with literally hundreds of servers to choose from at any given time. 
 The only real downside to this game is that it is an expansion, not a full-length stand-alone game; 
 therefore, if you want to play it, you must own Medal of Honor: Allied Assault, and even then you 
 will only be getting about seven to eight hours of extra gameplay. When it comes to Breakthrough, 
 there is admittedly very little to set it apart from the original.
  
  However, in this case, more of the same is not necessarily a bad thing. If you played the original 
 Medal of Honor and you enjoyed it, you will definitely enjoy Breakthrough. If you never played 
 Medal of Honor but think you might be interested, buy the Medal of Honor: Allied Assault War Chest; 
 it is a worthwhile investment, if only for the extra 15 hours of gameplay provided by the expansions. 
 If you hated Medal of Honor: Allied Assault, rest assured that the Breakthrough expansion adds 
 nothing new or original enough to make you change your mind. Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pret1
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 3, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Breakthrough isn't as good as the first two games but it's still such a good expansion pack. Once 
 again there is a level where you have to disguise as a Nazi and I love that kind of thing. This 
 is the hardest one out of the three. There really isn't much to say about this pack even if it 
 is great. I think the MOH series is a bit better than the Call of Duty series because there's much 
 more experience. D'oh! Not 100 words yet?! RRRRRRRRR!!! C'mon!!! Ok ummmm... O yeah! There are 
 no levels in this game that will dissapoint you. First you're in an extremely dusty sandy place 
 for a pretty long time. Then you're in a plane above Sicily and you crash and you're in the night 
 and Nazis start attacking you. I love that. Ok hope my review was helpful! D'oh! Not enough characters. 
 I hope there will be another expansion pack because so far all the allied assault games are amazing! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2007 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Well, I'm writing this and it's been quite a while after I've played it. To be perfectly honest, 
 so many good games have been made on this topic that I've mixed them all up and don't know which 
 one this is. These games are all linear but still very well done and I couldp lay them no matter 
 how many of them they make. 
  
  So, I won't be specific and I will mark / rank all of the games on of this genre with the same 
 mark of 9.0 as I think they are all incredible but it is really hard to have a game worth 10 on 
 this usbject matter as long as they are linear. 
  
  The only game that will get 9.5 will be Brother in Arms: Earned in Blood. This game perhaps deserves 
 8.5 because a few minor details but overall this was the start of the series and you gotta start 
 somewhere so I will keep it as a 9. 
  
  
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing 
 if you have nothing else to play
  6 - worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely 
 anything else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 as if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10)
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life.
  
  Best Wishes to everyone
  
  Zak 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Well, this expansion may not be worth it on its own, but it still packs a little punch for Medal 
 of Honor fans. Because a lot of scenarios are recycled from the past games, you may not find the 
 drive to even finish it if you're not a hardcore fan. But on the other hand, if you really enjoyed 
 previous missions like sabotaging enemy artillery, gunning down the road from vehicles and spying 
 around the enemy base with a fake pass, then you may still find a gem in Breakthrough. Also note 
 that the single-player is much more lengthy now which is on par with the original.
  
  Well, I think Breakthrough is really made for fans in the first place cos of its steeper difficulty. 
 The number of Germans that you need to mow down is significantly a lot in scenarios like the African 
 desert, and it's mostly fun anyway. The AA guns are still awesome to shoot from due to the same 
 solid sound design. If you still love the gameplay designs in the original, then complete the trilogy 
 now.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DodgeDuty
Rating: 2.4
Date: Aug 1, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  Good thing this game is dirt cheap now ( spent $5 ) as that's the value. The Good: Multiplayer 
 has minor improvements. Gives you something to do before Airborne comes out. When you parachute 
 in the beginning of single player, it's intense.
  
  The Bad: After landing in single player. Pitch black in the first level. Lousy pop-up as you move 
 forward. Graphics in the light. The enemy can see you, but you can't see them. Germans the same 
 shade as the sky. A machine gunner can see you behind a bush before you reach it and hit you, but 
 running towards the machine gunner, he couldn't hit me. STILL CAN T SCOPE WITH AN M1 GARAND. Glitches 
 havn't been fixed in multiplayer.
  
  The only reason why the game gets a better score is that it has multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snarekick
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 2, 2007 11:50 pm PT
Review:  Supposedly, the first expansion (Spearhead) to one of the greatest WW2 shooters of all time, was 
 better than the second Breakthrough . I say: NOT! I found that AA: B was worth my money more than 
 Spearhead, because it brought so much more to the table. Everything is at least, a little advanced, 
 which makes the experience all the better.
  
  In this instalment of the Medal of Honor series, you play as SGT. Baker, a man who is not of the 
 OSS, but a soldier who goes everywhere to fight and rescue. Because of this, there is a whole lot 
 of variety of missions throughout the game.
  
  Now, I loved Spearhead as much as the next guy, but I believe this was the better product, not 
 because of great graphics, wonderful sound and physics, but because it was longer. Eleven levels 
 that went a long way. The challenge in this one is even greater than any of the other Medal of 
 Honor games. Ammo is scarce, so is health, and the length of the levels and the intensity of them 
 all, make it all the more fun.
  
  New places to visit, create a more different experience for the player. The first level and last 
 level, are incredibly intense. Fighting off germans in a sandstorm or defending a radio tower, 
 with an army 100 times smaller from your own. The multiplayer is upgraded significantly also. New 
 weapons and areas and skins, create a better, more immersive multiplayer. As well, the soundtrack 
 is superb. Who ever conducted the score is a genious, who knows how to bring the excitement out 
 of each level.
  
  Graphics are stepped up abit, but not to a huge extent. The physics are greater, but not to much 
 up there. But with plenty of different huge weapons to fire, there's simply never a dull moment.
 
  
  I can't help but say, the critics were wrong about this one. Breakthrough is a wonderful expansion 
 pack that needs no comparison to look good. Who knew that eleven levels could add up to so much 
 excitement. This one would be worth twenty dollars, because in the end, you'll feel you've justified 
 your need to save the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 24, 2007 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: In Medal of Honor Allied Assault: Breakthrough. This second expansion to the PC version 
 of Medal of Honor retains the wonderful cinematic touches that have defined the series and help 
 set it apart from the rest of the pack. So you play as Sgt. John Baker and you have to fight your 
 way through a variety of missions in Northern Africa up through Italy. Your fight through the Mediterranean 
 will take you through eleven new historically accurate single-player levels, like Kasserine Pass 
 in Tunisia and Monte Cassino in Italy. You will be able to finish though the single play part in 
 about six hours but it's far more refined that it feels like a bigger game. What you will be doing 
 in this game are pretty standard but there is something new, you get to drive a tank pretty much 
 from the start, and as usuall you get to disguise yourself as a German and infiltrate a shipyard 
 soon after. Escorting other units through enemy areas and demolishing large weapons are also part 
 of the game pretty much right from the start. There is a multiplayer part of the game which you 
 would expect of this game. Accept they have added some new features to the multiplayer part. This 
 time they have added a Russian, Italian and British skins to the allied side with there own unique 
 weapons like the Lee-Enfield, PPSH 41 and Bretta 92 pistal and such. There are also new maps that 
 were added from the single play such as Malta. My only complained while playing the multiplayer 
 over the years is compared to the other World War two shooters, this game is not as realistic in 
 terms of the gun fire. For example you can take a Tompson and spray your enemy from accross a big 
 room and have a good chance of kill him. Come to think of it it's alot like a World War Two version 
 of Counterstrike but it's kinda addictive. Also my second complaint is people sliding accross the 
 floor when shooting which also really annoys me. Graphics: Well the graphics are not bad, but are 
 also a bit of a mixed bag given the games age. Dont get me wrong, Breakthrough looks pretty damn 
 good for a game thats over a year and a half old when it came out. Everything from the enviroment, 
 gun desine and the characters look pretty good and more polished, but seems somewhat dated still. 
 Sound: Well what can I say, EA is well know for putting very good and accurate sound in there Medal 
 of Honor Games. Everything from the gun fire and explotions to the voice acting is very well done.
 
  
  Value: All in all this is not a bad expantion for Allied assualt and should of not got it's such 
 lame score. I think it should of gotten a bit hire. So I give this game 8.1 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 22, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor: Allied Assault may be old but it is certainly a gem. With three games avaliable 
 there is around 20 hours of gameplay total, 10 or so in the original, and 5 in each of the expansions.
 
  
  The graphics in AA are decent for its time but the real thing that stood out to me was it's A. I. 
 In 2002 when it was released it's A. I. had to be one of the best in a game out yet. The nazi's 
 take cover often and squeeze shots off from the corners of walls. The move to better posiitions 
 when needed and capitalize on your mistakes when you don't cover yourself well enough. The main 
 point is that they were advanced for their time and it should be acknowleged.
  
  Gameplay in AA moves along well but at time can be unrealistic because you can just spray and pray 
 in close quarters and take barely any damage. From far away it is different, Enemies are snap shots 
 and it takes longer to take them out. Most of the missions have you playing solo or along side 
 a small team of friendlies, usually two or three. Your buddies provide cover fire for you but don't 
 effect the game that much. The solo parts can feel unrealistic because of the amount of enemies 
 you take out but it is still fun. Objectives vary and are different than in most games. Instead 
 of just clearing a bunker or take this area you will have to sabotage enemy vehicles or bomb a 
 certain key position. This aspect makes for a better experience. My only complaint is that you 
 can't choose your weapons or switch them whilst on a mission. This can bog down the fun factor 
 when for example you want to use you M1 Garand upclose but are stuck with a Springfield Sniper 
 Rifle which doesn't perform as well upclose.
  
  In a nutshell Medal of Honor: AA is one of the reasons WWII games became so popular and with the 
 2 expansions you get more gameplay out of Allied Assault. With that said this collection should 
 be on every WWII buffs shelf.
  
  Pros+
  Good shooting/gameplay mechanic, various objectives, Smart A. I.
  
  Cons-
  No weapons choice/switching, 
 graphics are dated for our time, unrealistic missions that you solo without friendly help 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unreal6666
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 7, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  Breakthrough is very fun, nice adventures and all.
  
  Pros: nice storylines thru the missions. Superb sound and Music for the game. Graphics are good 
 but now feel dated a bit. Good lenght of play for an expansion pack. Easy hud to deal with.
  
  Cons: Game is very punishing, i played on medium and was constantly running out of ammo. Some 
 weapons in the game have an unrealistic area of damage effect. Especially Bazzoka. Game is very 
 scripted and AI on medium is not that intelligent. Game glitches with weapon selection with mouse.
 
  
  Overall a nice pack but i got really turned off by it because the dev had turned off the corpse 
 giving ammo to you feature. The ammo was really rare at some point so much that you had to loo 
 for it for some time. Realistic yes, but when the main game and spearhead gave you health and ammo 
 on a good basis and you end up in this pac you just wanna curse.
  
  Would recommend if you want to complete the allied assault game but otherwise look for another 
 WW2 game instead.
  
  Cheers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SWEToryu
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 23, 2006 5:45 am PT
Review:  Advance so fast i can but get surprised by the desert wind and the sand blows into your face and 
 you can't see a thing in front of you suddenly you hear something and move very slow suddenly because 
 you can't see nothing well maybe 2 or 4 meters at the time and there we have tank suddenly, you 
 run for cover but infantry has spot you and fire at you, where shall run now and where to hmm must 
 act now or you die here and today.
  So it was during the ww2 sadly many died in africa. Yes this game takes you back to africa well 
 in the beginning it dose but then you had for Italy and other places too.
  
  The AI is good i must say, the way you act they respond very fast back at you, if you try to flank 
 them, they try to do something about that. The gameplay is really good, you have some army buddies 
 with you but most of the time is solo just for you self and against the enemy. That is boring to 
 be alone more fun to see your army buddies! :D (sorry i'am more use to BF2 lol) .. Graphics is good 
 in breakthrough even the sound too..
  The campaign is great but is short and not so long in the MOHAA and Spearhead (Hmm if i remember 
 right now!) but the level you take is difficult well it depends how you act and so on, if you take 
 hard well you will die many times hmm, it shall not be easy it shall be hard more fun..
  What about multiplayer well is the same thing you have in Spearhead and MOHAA and still awesome, 
 if you like multiplayer you shall try it and one player too in the campaign. If you like this kind 
 of game just try MOHAA, Spearhead and Call of Duty and 2, BF 1942 you will love it..
  
  Have fun!!!!... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 18, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  I pounced on Breakthrough with both feet on the very day of its release based solely on its Medal 
 of Honor pedigree. However, a part of me was a bit tired of the WWII shooter model. The first two 
 entries in the series covered just about every aspect of war-based shooters (the on-rails mission, 
 the stealth incursion, an outing with some AI squad members, etc.) very well. I plodded over almost 
 every inch of the snowy forests and verdant fields of France and Germany represented in the previous 
 tours of duty, so much so that the twisted piles of rubble that were once civilization all began 
 to look alike. So, even though I was gung-ho to rejoin the Allies in temporarily ridding the world 
 of evil, what I really needed was a change of scenery.
  
  Breakthrough fulfilled that need with a 180-degree shift to the craggy desert land of Tunisia. 
 The second and final expansion pack for Allied Assault begins with a hectic jeep ride directly 
 into the gnashing maw of the Kasserine Pass, where the heros entire squad disappears into a blinding 
 sandstorm. The game engines particle effects for the smoke and grit of the North African battles 
 is impressive, as are most of the combat scenarios; whether in sand or snow, a room-to-room corridor 
 crawl through Nazi bunkers is always fun to me.
  
  After Africa, the action moves north toward The Boot, beginning with a nighttime glider landing 
 in Sicily that is both suspenseful and tragic, once again leaving the hero alone in the midst of 
 big events. Once out of the desert, Breakthroughs settings are quite familiar to anyone who played 
 through the first two titles, but the mission objectives are diverse and tensely staged enough 
 to feel like brand-new material. The expansions last level that recreates a portion of the infamously 
 costly Battle Mountain snafu pits the player and a very small band of his brothers against an overwhelming 
 series of counterattacks from heavily-armed Germans. The interminable waves of enemies are worthy 
 of many breathless, panic-stricken Theyre all around us, man! moments &agrave; la Private Hudson, 
 culminating in a brief but gratifying round of sniping from a castle tower that beats the heck 
 out of the one-on-one boss battles that typically cap off other shooters.
  
  Thanks to an essential change of scenery and an appreciable increase in its degree of difficulty, 
 Breakthrough provides an enjoyable return to the Medal of Honor series. Both expansion packs are 
 very brief; with enough practice, a player can blast through Spearhead and Breakthrough in a single 
 slow Sunday afternoon. Given the high number of WWII-era skirmishes available in the entire Medal 
 of Honor, Call of Duty, and Brothers in Arms series of games, however, the expansions length isnt 
 much of a factor. When played back-to-back with those other titles, especially, Breakthrough is 
 able to match their high level of detail and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 17, 2006 4:39 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honor : Allied Assault - Breakthrough is the second expansion pack released for MOH: AA 
 and it really is a case of more of the same, but with a couple of new ideas and scenarios. The 
 game met with lukewarm reviews on release as firstly it was the general view that the Medal of 
 Honor franchise had done more than enough with the European theatre and secondly all and sundry 
 were getting very excited about Call of Duty, which was being released a couple of months later. 
 While Breakthrough is not a groundbreaking game, it is upfront with what it offers and provides 
 enough entertainment to suggest the critiques of the day were a little on the harsh side.
  
  For anyone who played the original Medal of Honor : Allied Assault and the first expansion 
 pack Spearhead the game will be very familiar. Again you play the role of Sergeant Baker in a further 
 three campaigns. The first campaign, perhaps one of the highlights of the Medal Honor : Allied 
 Assault series is based in Tunisia, followed by campaigns on the island of Sicily and then mainland 
 Italy. It is more of the same scripted run and gun gameplay of the predecessors with the player 
 required to complete objectives whilst more often or not in the company of allied soldiers. There 
 are more vehicles to drive, more heavy weapons to use, and plenty of enemies to hinder your progress. 
 The campaigns are separated with cut scenes of real war footage and campaign briefs and in-game 
 cut scenes are used to issue new objectives.
  
  The graphics on Breakthrough are not a major improvement on the earlier games, but the North African 
 campaign does provide a much needed refreshing change to the usual environment of war-torn Europe. 
 During the campaign some excellent effects are used to create a dust storm which adds some claustrophobia 
 to the game. 
  
  Models and characters are decent enough without being a serious improvement on Spearhead. Considering 
 that game came out ten months earlier, perhaps that isn't good enough. The Italian setting is filled 
 with vineyards which also provide some variety and the environments in the final missions through 
 the tunnels and to the cathedral for the final showdown is another highlight. 
  
  Overall, the graphics are good enough without being impressive.
  
  The sound remains are highlight 
 of the Medal of Honor games, with the explosions, gunfire and ambient sounds of the war being as 
 good as ever. The driving classical music remains in the game, but it's placed and paced well enough 
 to be complimentary to the gameplay. The voice acting is also very good. With a decent set of headphones, 
 the sound assists with immersion into the gameplay.
  
  The gameplay does not really offer anything new, but what it offers is very entertaining. The first 
 campaign is without a doubt the strongest as you crawl through a sandstorm in Northern Africa with 
 visibility low enough that at times you don't realise where enemy fire is coming from until you 
 are a few yards away. Guarding the minesweepers later in the campaign is also an excellent mission, 
 as is the mission where you sneak through the city with the undercover agent. It certainly is a 
 good start to the game. However, from there, it does feel very similar to Allied Assault and Breakthrough. 
 Whilst going through Sicily during the night is an entertaining campaign - it's been done before. 
 While holding off tanks in Italy is also challenging and entertaining it's been done before. Plenty 
 of house clearing, plenty of firefights and plenty of heavy armory and vehicles - it's just that 
 it does not provide anything new or exhilarating - except for closing mission which is a superbly 
 designed defensive or 'protection' mission.
  
  Sergeant Baker generally has allies by his side during Breakthrough and they are useful soldiers. 
 Certainly a positive feature of Breakthrough is that there is not as much ammunition available, 
 which means you have to make you shots count and at times rely on you comrades to do their bit. 
 On a few occasions I had to rely of the butt of the rifle to dispose of an enemy and in one particular 
 scenario, where you have to hold the enemy off while the undercover agent picks a lock, the large 
 amount of enemies and small supply of ammunition made this an enthralling set piece. Enemies remain 
 a moderate competitive force on the default level, with it usually being sheer numbers, rather 
 than the AI or their ability to shoot accurately that will lead to your demise. But these sheer 
 numbers do result in some excellent skirmishes.
  
  By the end of it all, Sergeant Baker has notched up quite a body count, driven countless vehicles, 
 used all sorts of weapons and defended many an allied interest. While Breakthrough is an enjoyable 
 game, it is fitting that this is where Allied Assault concluded.
  
  It is also rather short (though not as short as Spearhead) , taking about six hours to finish on 
 the default level. Only the most hardened FPS fan would look at replaying the game. I cannot comment 
 on the multiplayer, but I'm sure that it is not overly patronised now.
  
  I paid about $AUD8 for this game (second-hand) , which is reasonable. Again, $40 or $50 for this 
 at the time of release would have been a bit steep. But these days, it is worth pursuing at half 
 or quarter that price.
  
  Medal of Honor : Allied Assault - Breakthrough starts with a 'Bang!' and finishes with a 'Bang!' 
 but the middle of the game offers nothing new and can be repetitive. In the end, the high points 
 of this game are good enough to recommend it. A must for FPS fans and recommended for those who 
 have the original but not the expansions.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MallratsJaySB
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 16, 2006 11:51 pm PT
Review:  If you've played Medal of Honor: Allied Assault or it's expansion, Spearhead, then I guarantee 
 you've seen everything this expansion has to offer. Breakthrough tries nothing new in this franchise 
 and it's kind of sad to see that. To be honest, it was disappointing. Not to say that it wasn't 
 fun. I thoroughly enjoyed this expansion from beginning to end, but it did start to feel incredibly 
 stale and repetitive about halfway through this game. Maybe it's because I played Spearhead right 
 before this, but that really shouldn't matter. Spearhead took a good 2 and a half to 3 hours to 
 complete and this one took 4 or 5. That is still less than a normal game so it really has no excuse 
 for being the same and getting boring.
  
  The gameplay is exactly the same as the first two games. You will run around, Nazis will pop out, 
 you will shoot them down, repeat. Just like the other games, there are rail shooting missions and 
 missions where you will be driving the tank or car, but ultimately it's exactly the same and nothing 
 you should have a problem with if you played the others. I will say that the difficulty seemed 
 much better than the others. There were moments in this game where it was considerably harder than 
 its predecessors and that was a breath of fresh air since I breezed through the first two. My main 
 complaint is again the repetitiveness of this game, especially after the original game and releasing 
 the first expansion, they should have at least tried to change it up a little.
  
  The graphics are unchanged from the previous games. Some textures look a little sharper, but it 
 is largely the same game as before in different settings. If you've seen the first two, there's 
 nothing here that will blow your mind.
  
  The sound is great, just like every other Medal of Honor game, all the way back to the original 
 on the Playstation. These games have always excelled in this area and this game is no exception. 
 The guns sound exactly like they should, the explosions are loud, and even the voice acting out 
 in the field is very realistic and perfect. No complaints in this department.
  
  Overall, this is a good game to play if you enjoyed the original Medal of Honor and its expansion, 
 Spearhead. If you liked those two, there is no reason why you shouldn't like this one. But just 
 keep in mind that it is nothing you haven't seen before and nothing that will blow you away due 
 to the fact that practically everything is unchanged. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Techdude99
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 17, 2006 6:22 am PT
Review:  This game is the 3rd Allied Assault game, i bought the Warchest for 30 bucks at Target, with a 
 bonus CD with game walkthroughs and such.. so i got a pretty good deal, breakthrough is pretty 
 good, despite what others say, sure its a little shorter then the last 2 games.. enemys can be 
 frustratingly accurate ( (not as accurate as the original Allied Assault, but toned down a lot, 
 but they still can make you a little frustrated.. i can beat this game in 2-5 days or so if i'm 
 really fixed on beating it...
  
  graphics haven't improved much, but it looks okay.. i don't generally buy games for their graphics, 
 i buy games for their story, multiplayer, and replay value.. 
  
  the multiplayer, is okay.. its a little dissapointing that they don't have THAT good a in-game 
 browser, but its better then switching in and out of games using a clunky 3rd party program..
 
  
  well, if you think about buying it, i'd suggest you get the warchest.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbo0827
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 3, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor is a game featuring Nazis in Europe. You are still the one man fighting the Nazis, 
 but this time in Africa. It is fun at first but it becomes more of a mediocre game later on. Graphics 
 to me look a little better but not much and gameplay is a little less unique. I got to the last 
 level and called it quits because it is very difficult. Another thing about this, it is more of 
 a challenge now in Breakthrough. This is a good game but maybe needs more to be called great. I 
 wouldn't pay full price of this expansion when it first came out but ten or twenty dollars would 
 maybe be a consideration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdhnightwolf
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 3, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  While not as good as it's previous expansion Breakthrough manages to hold up well with new weapons 
 and new maps set in the Italian theater.
  
  A whole new lot of Italian weapons await you when you load the game with a few new surprises on 
 the British side. The new British Sniper Rifle is simply the best in my opinion.
  
  The gameplay, graphics, and sound are all unchanged and why should they be? When you've got something 
 that works, stick with it.
  
  The levels are once again done quite well with everything being not too big, and yet not too small. 
 
  
  There is a new gameplay mode called Liberation that takes you back to your days of playing prisoner 
 of war as a child. You get killed, you end up in jail and you team must free you in order to keep 
 the game going. Once everyone is in jail, the game is over. A nice twist, unless you're not very 
 good. Then prepare to be bored as you sit in the cell a lot.
  
  All in all it's an expansion pack that is worth a shot if you can find it at a good price. Spearhead 
 it is not, but it's a nice addition to an already great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 17, 2006 12:45 am PT
Review:  Mmm.... from the last expansion pack this one is slightly different. Game's story line a bit poor, 
 I dont wana breakthrough leading my head under the hammer man.... all around full of RPG's I am 
 sitting in bloody mine terminator, what the hell.... just go with naked arse up to the germans and 
 say them to f*#k you! lol!
  
  Really a bit dissapointment in this pack... however, start of the game in the desert in Africa, 
 that was smash, but for a minute.... then another breath to the game when I reached to the point 
 where we should terminate the AA guns or enemies around it.
  
  there too much ups and downs in this game, may be this is the new design tactic which EA designer 
 practising now. I don't know.... but its is not quiet adequate, at least for this time with such 
 a poor graphic and sound implementations. 
  If you started MOH: AA so by this game finish it for good. Coz this was a break point in this serries.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: janoma
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 14, 2006 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Simply nothing new from EA Studios for this second Medal of Honor 'Expansion', which I prefer to 
 talk about as 'big patch'. The new missions are quite similar to the ones we saw in MOHAA and Spearhead, 
 with some new guns and some new locations --sadly without any major graphic improvement.
  
  One thing which entertained me a lot was that the "difficult" level was really difficult, and it 
 took me a lot of hours to finish the game in that level. It is almost impossible to successfully 
 accomplish a mission without getting killed, so if you weren't used to use the quick-save and quick-load 
 buttons --as it was in my case -- you definitely will have to reserve a finger for them...
  
  ... except that you really want to spend several hours trying to learn the enemies' behaviour 
 pattern and the ideal path across the battlefield. Instead, you could read Gamespot's review of 
 the game and give up your intentions.
  
  The music is still good, and the sound effects remain impressive. But if you upgraded your graphic 
 card thinking of the launching of this game, you'll get very disappointed, for the graphics are 
 still as in the original game of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom1327
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 17, 2006 6:36 pm PT
Review:  These few intense battle sequences are actually quite fun. The sandstorm in Africa drastically 
 limits your visibility, so you need to push ahead and try to find where gunshots are coming from. 
 The next level has you protecting a minesweeper as it attempts to clear a minefield. The castle 
 at the end of the game at Monte Cassino has Germans and Allies fighting all over the place, and 
 you can hear gunfire and screams coming from all directions. You have to fend off wave after wave 
 of German attacks in several key positions on the map.
  
  The problem is that these moments are too few and far between. The majority of Breakthrough is 
 rather forgettable because it is too similar to the previous Allied Assault missions. A lot of 
 times you'll be riding on a vehicle shooting at enemies that pop up like targets at a firing range, 
 or you'll have to lay explosives on artillery. You again have a mission in which you must use papers 
 to fool the Germans and Italians so you can sneak around their base. Sometimes these recycled elements 
 are made to be challenging, but they end up becoming save-reload moments. For example, you'll be 
 stuck in a building and have to repel a tank assault. You have mortars to fend them off, but the 
 problem is that there is a huge delay between when you fire and where you see the mortar land. 
 It will take a few tries until you get the positioning correct for the first wave. But then more 
 waves come, forcing you to figure out positioning again before the tanks breach the wall. There's 
 a similar situation when you have to cover escaping prisoners from snipers. Having to save and 
 reload until you figure out the exact pattern and locations of an enemy isn't what makes a shooter 
 fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duxy33
Rating: 5.1
Date: Jan 5, 2006 7:28 am PT
Review:  Just as few expected, MOHAA: breakthrough was nothing special as it pretty much only offers more 
 levels. But the levels are somewhat pointless... After beating the first stage of this game, you 
 expect to see something exciting, but nah.... 
  
  I hate it how you get stuck by yourself trying to kill everyone all the time. How is this any more 
 fun than the other two? And when you do have allies for a change, they die pretty quickly, unless 
 they're with you for the whole mission.
  
  I also found it frustrating how not all soldiers leave their weapons on the ground for you to pick 
 up ammo because unless your pro at this game, your pretty gone if you just fire bullets everywhere.
 
  
  however i do appreciate the series, it was great when MOHAA first came out, but since there has 
 been other competitors towards this game, i look back and think this expansion wasn't that great.
 
  
  sorry if i offended anyone, but i was only focusing on the single player missions only 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazethe1
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 2, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  just like spearhead, i got this along with allied assault, and thats the only reason i own it. 
 but i will say i liked this one more than spearhead, mainly for the new multiplayer game type, 
 prison. this was a fun twist on it where instead of dying when shot, you go to the prison in the 
 enemy base. its up to your team to rescue you by shooting the other team, and pulling the switch 
 opening the jail cell, WHILE guarding the switch doing the same thing for the other team at your 
 base. other than this new game type, theres nothing else worth having on this game, and i probably 
 wouldnt hav bought it seperately, but i am glad i hav it now souly because of the prison game type. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fahrenheit1221
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 22, 2005 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor: Breakthrough is not quite as good as Spearhead but it has some good points. It 
 has some other multiplayer modes not seen before, which are pretty cool, but overall I just feel 
 like this whole game was a big let down... just not enough new innovations to hold me interest.
 
  
  In Breakthrough you play John Baker, a Sergeant in the U. S. Army and covers a whole new type of 
 battlefront, Italy. In this game you will fight through Tunisia and Italy, which introduces the 
 Italian army which has some interesting weapons, but still isn't that interesting as much as the 
 British and Russian teams of Spearhead.
  
  Breakthrough features 11 single player missions. Nine new multiplayer leves, the new game type 
 "Liberation" where you must free your ally prisoners, similar to a rescue mission. 12 new weapons 
 and over 25 new character model types.
  
  Overall this game is nothing but an average disappointing expansion pack, only recommended for 
 loyal MOH fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Subcritical
Rating: 5.2
Date: Oct 20, 2004 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Breakthrough is only a breakthrough in disappointment. Medal of Honor: Allied Assault and the first 
 expansion, Spearhead are excellent games. But this expansion pack is downright terrible. Occasionally 
 this game will give you a level that reminds you of what was so good in Allied Assault, but it 
 quickly does a 180 degree turn and has too many levels that are downright horrible. Why? Because 
 there are quite a few levels that staple you into the back of a jeep (or other similar situation) 
 and force you to shoot enemies that line streets and hide in buildings. As you are forced through 
 these sequences, you are inundated by the enemy as they take pot shots at you when you drive by. 
 And just when you think you got them all, they respawn behind you. There are just too many crappy 
 situations like this that spoil the few good levels in this expansion game. It is really, really 
 disappointing. I would not recommend you purchase this expansion pack because it is so poorly executed. 
 If developers and publishers fling crap like this out, why support it? Despite a few very good 
 levles this game overall has too many frustrating moments which spoil any enjoyment that Breathrough 
 almost provided. This is so unfortunate because Allied Assault was so good. Oh well. I guess I'll 
 keep my fingers crossed for Pacific Assault. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMarcus
Rating: 7.6
Date: Sep 19, 2004 3:18 pm PT
Review:  The great action sequences, so fast and furious for a realistic/semi-realistic title - almost like 
 carnage shooters, is somethingthis second expansion presents exceedingly well. The battles in 
 Sicily are twitchy, and Monte Battaglia is awesome. A bit longer than Spearhead, still not enough 
 for some ( like 5-6 hours of SP gameplay ) . Can almost be compared to the more cartoony Call of 
 Duty, only here with lesser graphics and laggier flow. 
  
  There are no real innovative upgrades since the original MoH released more than a year and a half 
 ago, so the reviews show lower scores but I still think that one is a bit underappreciated. It 
 has some of the best WWII italian battles coded in a video game. Period.
  
  The gameplay needs more work at times, and the heavily modified engine shows its age more than 
 ever. However my final impressions remain: I've made the SP 3 times, liked it, and it's above the 
 average WWII shooter. The MP maps are maybe too large and aren't optimized to offer a good online 
 experience - not like the original ones , still widely played. 
  
  Breakthrough is a bit short even for an expansion, yet as a good WWII action script it completes 
 professionally the original MoH series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ANSteve
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 15, 2004 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor: Allied Assault: Breakthrough has gotten some bad reviews in the past so I've decided 
 to set the record straight. Yes the game was dissapointing but no, overall Medal of Honor: Allied 
 Assault: Breakthrough is still worth buying if you have Allied Assault and Spearhead.
  
  Gameplay - Breakthrough starts you off in the battle of Kasserine Pass with a lot of action going 
 on around you. Sadly, it doesnt keep this up for long and probably had some major issues when testing 
 because the lack of ammo is very disheartening. Overall though, it retains enough of previous Medal 
 of Honor games to get a decent rating. Don't expect much when compared to Spearhead but enough 
 to still have some fun.
  
  Graphics - When Breakthrough was released Allied Assault was starting to look a bit dated when 
 compared to games such as Doom 3 and particularly Half-life 2 demoed at E3 2003. Still, Allied 
 Assault was a great looking game for its time and Breakthrough holds its own when compared to other 
 games of 2003, not THAT far behind Game of Year Call of Duty.
  
  Sound - Breakthrough retains all the great music and sound effects you've come to know and love 
 from Allied Assault and other Medal of Honor games. Some of the new sound though, isn't quiet up 
 to par with previous releases of Medal of Honor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hicklebird
Rating: 3.3
Date: May 29, 2004 8:15 pm PT
Review:  This is for the Single Player Campaign only because I don't get into playing games online; Lack 
 of Ammo, Lack of health, no real "easy" mode. Game is just frustrating. Don't buy it instead get 
 some other game for entertainment. I purchased this game when it was first released and here it 
 is May, 2004 and I still haven't finished it. Why? It's just that frustrating. The designers just 
 decided to make an extremely difficult game sacrificing the "entertainment" value of a game. When 
 I set a game on "easy" mode, I mean EASY MODE. In my opinion the levels of difficulty should be 
 labeled "frustrating", "even more frustrating", and "you die within 2 minutes" (hope you enjoy 
 restoring a game alot. 
  
  Also you'll waste a great deal of ammo because sometimes when you lean from behind a wall or a 
 tree and you shoot the bad guy the bullet stops because the bullet actually hit the side of the 
 tree or wall allthough you have a clear shot. This is bad very bad. Also the enemy has about a 
 90 percent accuracy of hitting you AND even at long distances where they are in a fog they are 
 so far away. I tested this and this is so UN-Realistic. A Nazi officer firing a pistol and he's 
 in a fog, dancing back and forth and he's got easy a 95 percent accuracy of hitting you and shooting 
 from the hip of all things. Now let's be a little more realistic, because I do target practice 
 with a firearm. The only way to be that accurate with a pistol at that distance is crouching or 
 prone, both hands gripping the pistol and taking your time with a slow pull on the trigger. And 
 here's a dancing nazi officer with a pistol that can shoot 95 percent accuracy standing and moving. 
 Try again game designers. Hope the Medal of Honor franchise get more realistic on the next game. 
 And remembers that they are into games for ENTERTAINMENT. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick394
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 26, 2003 11:52 pm PT
Review:  I believe that this is a good game for those who enjoyed the last expansion pack, but it honestly 
 doesn't feel like you are part of the war. It feels like a bunch of mini levels and there isn't 
 much to tie them together. This game is very linear and it becomes especially frustrating to not 
 be able to do simple things like protect Klaus by picking up the grenades thrown at you. All you 
 can do is stare at them like a damn monkey. I had sound problems too, when i could hear everything 
 but machine gun fire. Glitchy. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
