-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Medal of Honor Allied Assault
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/medalofhonoralliedassault/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 23, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 9.1, 49 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 5,947 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: 2015
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date:     Jan 20, 2002 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Medal of Honor represents the absolute best that action-packed, event-driven shooters have to offer. 
 

 Medal of Honor: Allied Assault, the first PC installment of Electronic Arts' WWII-themed shooter 
 series, is superb. However, if the realistic setting has led you to expect a serious combat simulation 
 along the lines of Ghost Recon or Operation Flashpoint, you're going to be surprised and perhaps 
 disappointed. Medal of Honor is first and foremost a run-and-gun shooter -- a really, really excellent 
 run-and-gun shooter. A lot of clever scripting and precisely orchestrated mayhem lend it a sustained 
 intensity that more open-ended tactical shooters often lack. Relatively short but very dense, it's 
 like one-half game and one-half amusement park ride.           Medal of Honor is intense and exciting 
 all the way through.    

  Medal of Honor isn't very heavy on story. Instead, the game is split into six more or less disconnected 
 missions spread across more than 30 different levels. Rather than focus on creating memorable characters 
 or surprising plot twists, the developers at 2015 have taken an arguably more effective route by 
 constantly introducing memorable set pieces and surprising new gameplay elements. As in Half-Life, 
 you witness everything from the fixed first-person viewpoint of your character. All the "cutscenes" 
 are seamlessly integrated into the ongoing events of the level. Control is never taken away from 
 you. Just as in Half-Life, this technique is incredibly effective for creating a sense of both 
 urgency and of attachment to the game's environments. It's an ongoing mystery as to why developers 
 don't use this uninterrupted viewpoint more often.   

  Over the last couple of years, 10 to 15 hours appears to have become the standard length for single-player 
 shooters. Medal of Honor doesn't break this trend and should take you slightly longer than 10 hours 
 to complete on the standard difficulty setting. However, it packs a lot of content into those hours. 
 You won't ever have to force yourself through the game. This is mainly due to the wide variety 
 of interesting things and unexpected events that happen on a regular basis. It seems as if the 
 developers have tried to inject every level with some completely new challenge or new combination 
 of elements from previous levels. It's a testament to this variety that to give many specific examples 
 would be to ruin the surprise.           The Omaha Beach landing is just one of the game's memorable 
 scenes.    

  Even so, at least one specific example is in order, just to give a sense of how involving Medal 
 of Honor's missions can be. You begin the first level riding in the back of a truck with four members 
 of your squad. The squad leader informs everyone that you're attempting to infiltrate a Nazi-occupied 
 village. You can see another truck driving behind you. Both vehicles stop at a checkpoint, and 
 a German guard approaches the rear truck and begins talking to the driver. As the conversation 
 drags on, your squad becomes progressively more agitated. Finally, the driver of the rear truck 
 pulls a gun and shoots the guard, at which point alarms sound, gunfire erupts all around you, and 
 the rear truck explodes in a fireball. Your squad jumps out of its truck and you follow. With the 
 leader barking orders, you all advance on the village gates, eventually making your way to a courtyard. 
 There, you're ordered to check a door. As you do, German soldiers appear all across the rooftops 
 and balconies surrounding the small courtyard. You're trapped and chaos ensues, as bullets and 
 grenades rain down on your squad. Eventually, a door is blown open and you're ordered to enter 
 a building, get to the second floor, and commandeer a mounted gun that's currently being used against 
 you. Once you do that, and turn the gun against the Nazis, an ally joins you and tells you he'll 
 cover you from a window while you head to the far end of the courtyard. By the time you make it, 
 the entire rest of the squad is dead, and you're forced to continue to the next level alone.   
 

  This isn't the first  mission , but rather just the first  level . Things continue apace from there. 
 While not all of the following levels are as eventful as the first, virtually every one breaks 
 up the traditional straightforward run-and-gun action with some twist. One level that re-creates 
 the Normandy beach storming scene from  Saving Private Ryan  is quite likely the most intense and 
 well-executed set piece in shooter history. It's the perfect implementation of Medal of Honor's 
 apparent design philosophy: the heavily scripted level that somehow feels alive and completely 
 spontaneous.    

 In what has become a disclaimer that, at this point, should probably just be left implied in every 
 shooter review, the enemy artificial intelligence is not as good as Half-Life's. However, it's 
 not bad either. The Nazis don't exhibit any real squad-based behavior, and they'll sometimes come 
 running single file around a corner as you shoot each one in turn, but those that don't come sprinting 
 after you tend to use cover well. They also know how to toss grenades and get out of the way of 
 incoming grenades. If fact, you can provide cover for yourself by tossing grenades and then advancing 
 while the Nazis are busy scampering out of the way.           The action takes place in a variety 
 of distinct locations.    

  Two things contribute to making the fights especially intense. First, other than snipers who are 
 sometimes frustratingly accurate, the rank-and-file soldiers you'll face aren't perfect shots. 
 Gunfights usually involve bullets spraying all around you, instead of merely straight into you. 
 Second, when you do get hit, you become incapacitated for a brief moment, and your viewpoint is 
 knocked aside accordingly, leaving you open to more hits. This means you can't simply roll toward 
 an enemy while absorbing hits like a tank. Moving from cover to cover becomes an indispensable 
 tactic, which ends up making the fights feel more real, in spite of the fact that you can absorb 
 an unrealistic amount of damage and can instantly replenish your health with med packs.   

  Medal of Honor uses the Quake III: Team Arena engine, and its graphics are generally excellent. 
 It may not look quite as crisp as Return to Castle Wolfenstein, but it's no slouch. Character animations 
 are especially good, as are more subtle effects such as lightning storms in the distance and trees 
 swaying in the wind. It also features some of the most impressively destructible environments ever 
 created. However, to ensure a teen rating -- previous Medal of Honor games for the PlayStation were 
 also rated T-- the game is completely bloodless. If that turns you off, think of it this way: Maybe 
 they took out the blood so it wouldn't obscure your view of the death animations, which are gruesome 
 to say the least.   

  The graphics are very good, but the sound is phenomenal. Every level is thick with ambient sound 
 effects. The voice acting is excellent, and there's plenty of it. Best of all, the Germans actually 
 speak German. A lot. The music is fine and usually appropriate, but the game is smart enough to 
 sometimes forgo music. The soundtrack for the Normandy beach level is nothing but gunfire, waves, 
 screaming, and the overlapping conversations of groups of panicked soldiers, which ends up being 
 much more effective than any score could have been.           Medal of Honor's single-player game 
 is a blast.    

  Medal of Honor offers a few different multiplayer modes, including deathmatch and objective-based 
 team matches. There's nothing really wrong with them, and the realistic World War II-era weapons 
 are interesting, but there's nothing here that's overly compelling. Nothing like the marginal but 
 significant advances to teamplay offered by Return to Castle Wolfenstein are present in Medal of 
 Honor. Worse, there are some severe implementation issues. Rather than offer a built-in server 
 browser, Medal of Honor relies on the GameSpy program for finding games. Quitting out to a third-party 
 application every time you want to switch servers is a pain to begin with, but the developers have 
 made it even more obtrusive by forcing you to sit through three uninterruptible logo animations 
 every time the game loads. Three! Someone will probably come up with a workaround to this, but 
 a workaround shouldn't be necessary. There's also already a rampant cheating problem. It's possible 
 to enter god mode in multiplayer and become an invincible opponent or, worse yet, an invincible 
 team killer. Complementing this problem is the fact that there's no clear menu-based voting system. 
 Voting exists, but it's only available through console commands, and only then if you check the 
 advanced console setting in the options menu.   

  So, if you're looking for the next great online game or a deep tactical shooter, Medal of Honor 
 isn't for you. For anyone else, it's hard to recommend it strenuously enough. At a time when shooters 
 seem to be evolving into two distinct kinds of games -- either focused on realistic tactics or on 
 arcade action -- Medal of Honor represents the absolute best that action-packed, event-driven shooters 
 have to offer.   

    Editor's note 01/25/02 : Today a patch was released that addresses many of the multiplayer issues 
 mentioned in this review.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (162 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: oblivionwolf142
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2009 9:35 am PT
Review:  I could go on for ever about this game but I will make this short and sweet. MOHAA is by my favourite 
 videogame of all time! It has everything an FPS WWII fan is looking for. MOHAA has grate visuals 
 for it's time an amazing sound system that makes you feel like you are actually in the middle of 
 a fire fight, and above all it is immersive beyond explanation! This game will make you feel like 
 you are smack dab in the middle of the film Saving Private Ryan (also one of my favourite movies 
 of all time) ! This game made all the difference in deciding what platform I was going to end up 
 playing for the rest of my life. I played the PC version of this game and it made me love my computer 
 even more! Good PC games are hard to come by, but when something as revolutionary as MOHAA comes 
 along then you just know that it can only get better from hear on out! The fact is if you like 
 WWII and want a true experience of what war might have been like back then this is the game for 
 you to try!!! What are you waiting for go get your copy now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZanarkandTidus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 4:41 am PT
Review:  This game is excellent. The aiming is very smooth, the atmosphere is great. I loved the Omaha beach 
 landing when you're trying to avoid machine-gun fire and artillery shells are exploding all around 
 you.
  
  Most of the game is fast paced shooting action with lots of Nazis to kill. You can sniper, and sometimes 
 snipering is a neccesity and it can lead to some pretty tense sniper shootouts.
  
  There is a segment you use a jeep and can spray bullets at every enemy soldier and vehicle that 
 comes your way. There is a segment you use a tank and take on other tanks and can destroy the city 
 if you want.
  
  Enemies you face include LOTS of Nazi soldiers, snipers, tanks, guard dogs (the guard dogs are tougher 
 to kill and more dangerous than some soldiers because they are so fast and attack very savagely) some 
 soldiers occupy machine-gun posts/towers and are very deadly.
  
  You have a handgun, rifle (can be equiped with scope for snipering) , automatic  
 in your arsenal.
  
  There is times you need to call in aerial strikes. For a sense of urgency, enemies will even sound 
 an alarm and send soldiers everywhere looking for you until you turn the alarm off.
  
  You will need to avoid spotlights or automatically be hit with a lethal barrage of machine-gun 
 fire, and there's many occasions you have to avoid exploding artillery shells.
  
  The weakness in the gameplay is the Nazi soldiers are too accurate and their gunshots will hit 
 you most of the time unless you're behind cover. The Nazi soldiers can even shoot you when their 
 gun isn't pointing at you, and during shootouts Nazi soldiers move around and are able to shoot 
 you with pin point accuracy while they're not even pointing their gun at you.
  
  But most of the time the fast paced gameplay is really fun, and it feels more like a run and gun 
 shooter than a traditional FPS but the most important thing is the game is very fun.
  
  For extra replay value, you can earn medals for accomplishing extra achievements during missions.
 
  
  The graphics were great for their time, and even now they are decent.
  
  The music suits the gameplay well. Loud gunfire and explosions add to the atmosphere.
  
  The 
 game is very cheap now and the single player campaign is a pretty good length for FPS. If you've 
 finished Call of Duty, Medal of Honor Allied Assault would be a great FPS to try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rynn21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor: Allied Assault is a pretty good war fighter game. This was the first pc shooter 
 game I played. MoH: AA will bring you into the battle and war. The graphics are well done, and 
 the game truly relates to how wars are fought and how they progress. My favorite mission took place 
 when you first get to explore the game; your first mission. You see tanks blast the walls you are 
 hiding behind. You launch grenades, and watch as tank parts go flying in all directions. The details 
 of the enemies and the weapons are outstanding, and it was one of the most well done pc war games 
 that I've seen. 
  The only annoyance is the tank's controls. I don't know if it was my mouse or the actual game at 
 the time I played it, but I would take fighting on foot any day to blasting enemies with the tank. 
 
  
  If you are looking for a good war game, then Medal of Honor: Allied Assault is the best in the 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 7:20 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 9
  Sounds: 9
  Value: 8
  Tilt: 9
  Actual score: 8.8
  
  It's now a reality that console bashing is a favourite past time sport for PC goers; all this fuss 
 about being dumb down for the masses, the controls are hopeless, graphics are nothing short of 
 viewing it on a mobile phone and so forth; it's like watching a game of tennis  this back and 
 forth slag fest. And I'll admit that I'm one of those players who constantly ridicule console players 
 for the lack of game play. Yet there are games that we PC 'elites' do not like to admit that 'damn 
 I wish this game ports to the PC, it will totally rocks' therefore will conclude it should be originally 
 build for the PC anyway (but the reality is that the game wasn't even intend for the PC to begin 
 with) and Medal of Honor: Allied Assault is one of those console based games that can really put 
 many PC games to shame (but I'm not going to admit this) .
  
  Without further ado, the premise for MoHAA compose of six large missions loosely based on real 
 life World War Two events. The hero of the story, Mike Powell will find himself parcipitating Operation 
 Torch (British-American invasion of French North Africa) , heading up to Norway grabbing the infamous 
 Naxos radar detection, enduring the gruelling D-Day Operation Overlord campaign, getting the opportunity 
 to snatch the most fearsome tank of WW2: the King Tiger then blow up the mustard production plant 
 Schmerzen (which is a really unintelligent name as 'Schmerzen' means 'pain' in German) . All of 
 this requires the player to utilise every FPS skills imaginable as these campaigns can consist 
 of sniping, stealth, relying on other team mates and naturally your skill to eradicate as many 
 Germans (and the occasional German Shepard) as possible.
  
  Throughout these missions, you'll be exposed to the weaponry and armaments typically for the 1942 
  45 period for both allies and axis groups ranging from the Colt and Walther pistol to the Kar-98k 
 sniper to the submachine guns to grenades and M1A1 Rocker Launcher. Also noted that you'll get 
 the opportunity to shoot in a moving vehicle and blast your way using the biggest, meanest tank 
 for its time, the King Tiger. There will be at times you'll not be fighting alone as there are 
 some missions that requires assistance from your fellow comrades and considering the game uses 
 the Quake III engine, the AI for both Axis and Allies camps are acceptable; that is they will take 
 cover, use suppressive fire and even lob a grenade to flush out a group of soldiers. In addition 
 to all this, if you happen to have an AI medic, will fall behind and during the quiet moment/s 
 will heal you  now that's what I call service! 
  
  Also being true to its name, if you go 'beyond the call of duty' (i. e. side missions) will have 
 the opportunity to obtain a medal for all your effects consequently there are six to collect, one 
 for each mission (as each mission can consists approximately four parts) and another one for completing 
 the entire campaign on each level of difficulty (easy/medium and hard) . There's also a hidden (but 
 incomplete) mission where german shepards can actually open doors (clever dogs) and an easter egg 
 (hint: mission two) . So there's plenty to do during the single player campaign of MoHAA.
  
  Once all done, you can jump online and battle out with other comrades using the Gamespy account 
 for a game of death match, round based (similar to death match however no re-spawning) and objective 
 (Allies or Axis have to plant one or more bombs at a given location and the other team have to 
 defend this location) . And let's not forget the excellent modding community with more skins, weaponry 
 and single/multiplayer maps; yet I have seen only a few single player maps but plenty of multiplayer.
 
  
  Unfortunately there are some key downsides to this wonderful game play. One of them is that once 
 your foe dies there is some kind of 'build-in' timer that if you are not quick enough, the dropped 
 weapon will disappear forever (which is a royal pain as ammo can be hard pressed to find) . Also 
 especially at the hardest difficulty setting, the AI seems to have a 'lock on' ability that almost 
 guarantee a direct hit regardless if you are behind cover  that said, just the slightest show 
 of flesh will assure a pounding from the Germans (I never thought the Germans are that good or 
 could it be the superior weaponry they use) . Lastly there are some maps that triggers 'spawning' 
 Germans  I really don't understand why the developers do such diabolical acts of terror yet it 
 wasn't my cup-of-tea mowing down piles of Germans just because the alarm was triggered...
  
  The graphical software that fuels MoHAA is nothing other than the powerful id tech software 
 Quake III engine. This engine has proved many times before of how versatile and resilient it is 
 as visually this game is nothing short but luminous; that is entire landscapes render perfectly 
 as considering some maps are very large indeed, the optimisation choices available will guarantee 
 that any PC can play this game with minimal reduction of frame rates yet without the sacrifice 
 of being a complete pixelated mess. The optimisation also adds features like weather effects, smooth 
 characters' animation, fine-looking water ripples and the list goes on. The entire environments 
 are all life-like (e. g. the sub's docking station: large and powerful; the towns and villages among 
 rolling hills, the gloomy forests etc) all presents authentic qualities that brings you not just 
 playing the game but feel for the game. Yet there are some clipping issues (e. g. floating dead 
 bodies and weaponry that peer through walls) that can spoil that ever-so-beautiful scenry however 
 it actually adds a bit of unintentional humour and deter the game play.
  
  To compliments the outstanding graphics are the sounds in MoHAA. Just like the Quake series and 
 practically anything else that runs on the Quake III engine expect ear-splitting gun-fire, thunderous 
 explosions and zooming aeroplanes to dominate your soundcard and speakers. When things go momentarily 
 quiet, you can also hear the dogs howl, the branches snapping beneath your feet, squeaky floorboards 
 and the occasional Germans chattering to each other. The voice acting are quite well done as you'll 
 hear the soldiers yell for cover etc however the pinnacle has to be the musical scores which are 
 all composed professionally by the man himself Michael Giacchino (such a talented writer) ; the 
 same guy who composed The Lion King, The Incredibles and the TV show Alias just to name a few.
 
  
  Medal of Honor: Allied Assault is truly a champion game build by champions to be played by champions. 
 From the storyline (which happens to be partially written by Steven Spielberg) to the graphics 
 (Quake III engine) to the sounds and musical scores from one of the best composes around, one cannot 
 deny that being a console port doesn't spell disaster. The entire campaign from start to finish 
 (except for the last mission which feels more 'Hollywoodish' than an actual WW2 campaign) really 
 makes the player feel like a soldier fighting the great war similar to what 'Saving Private Ryan' 
 did to the viewing audience. That said it doesn't really glamorise what WW2 is like but try to 
 bring in reality of the horrors and turmoils yet also having fun; but the irony of playing a WW2 
 game isn't meant to be fun but to educate people what could be avoided. Nevertheless, the message 
 portrayed in Medal of Honor: Allied Assault is a dedication for all the brave soldiers fought in 
 the war and especially to those who actually received the honourable 'Medal of Honour' medal  
 lest we forget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Perth2008
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2008 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Own the MOH Warchest collection.
  
  Just played it through MOHAA a second time ... new computer and previous saved games didn't work 
 with updates. Nevertheless I did enjoy it all over again.
  
  Personally I prefer the COD WWII series to MOHAA/MOH Spearhead/MOH Breakthrough ... COD games just 
 look better (graphics-wise) and plays just as well. Overall the missions in MOHAA are fun ... but 
 can be frustrating as sometimes the next mission "waypoint" is above or below the current level 
 (in a building or underground complex) which can lead to a lot of running around looking for the 
 correct pathway up or down.
  
  OVERALL: Worth a playthrough. MOHAA is the best of the three originals (including Spearhead and 
 Breakthrough) . Am now playing MOH Pacific Assault which looks more like COD in the graphics rendering 
 department. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackoo52
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  i think this game is the best ww2 game ever the guns are good the levels are great and i could 
 play it for days and not get sick of iti have finished it like 50 times once i even finished it 
 like 10 times in one day and my favourite level is omoha beach it is kool i love that level so 
 much much i have competed all the missons on hard and got all the medals but one i dont know how 
 to get it if u know please write back and tell me it is the one left bottom corner if u know please 
 tell me but i think this game is the best game ever made i they should remake it with better grafics 
 and then it would be even better well thats all laterz please rewrite if u know how to get the 
 last medal and if you have this game u should start playing it online agian and tell your friends 
 if they have it to start playing it online bye all laterz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jotpot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 12:03 am PT
Review:  This game is simply outstanding. From gameplay to value, this game is most likely the best wwII 
 fps of all time. The campaign is action packed, intoxicating, and well lengthly. The multiplayer 
 is superb. You can still hop on mohaa and play any game type; tdm, objective, free for all, freeze 
 tag, freeze tag objective, and modded servers. If you havent played this, go buy it. If you have 
 played this game, you would agree. I cant think of a reason this game is not good.
  
  Mohaa is no doubt an instant classic with innovative gameplay. ok im done typing but i need 100 
  
 is amazing, buy  everyone for reading my review. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orcmonkey3000
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 28, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  To be honest, Medal of Honor: Allied Assault is probably the most difficult game on my shelf to 
 objectively analyze, because over the years I have played many games that were simply updated versions 
 of the original, with little to no new content, making it hard to remember which one was which. 
 However, one thing about MoH: AA that stands out to me now just as clearly as ever, is that this 
 game is the definitive original, the beginning of a genre -- and as such, is the best of them all.
 
  
  One thing that stands as a testament to this game's longevity is the number of people still playing 
 the online multiplayer. With the world of online shooters dominated by such modern classics as 
 Halo and Team Fortress 2, the multiplayer community for Medal of Honor: Allied Assault is surprisingly 
 large. And for good reason. Although the game's presentation is outdated and its options are limited 
 by today's standards, it is still one of the most authentic World War II shooters ever created, 
 not to mention being a blast to play. The gameplay is varied and challenging; mission objectives 
 range from sabotage to infiltration to guerrilla warfare, resulting in a game that keeps the player 
 alert by forcing him to adapt to different situations throughout the game. And what's better, the 
 single-player campaign clocks in at about 20 hours (if all secondary objectives are completed) ; 
 add to that the intense multiplayer mode, and this is one game that you will be playing for quite 
 a while. Furthermore, if you really like the game, there are two expansions (Spearhead and Breakthrough) 
 which add an extra 15 hours or so of single-player missions, as well as a few extra options for 
 multiplayer. Altogether, the entire package should not cost more than twenty dollars, a real value 
 for the money.
  
  To be honest, I can find very little wrong with this game. In fact, the only things that could 
 really be improved are the graphics and sound quality, which is to be expected in a six-year-old 
 game. All in all, Medal of Honor: Allied Assault is an extraordinary game, a masterpiece in the 
 World War II shooter genre. Many have tried to imitate it, but few have been able to improve upon 
 its excellent gameplay, authentic presentation, and intense multiplayer -- the same qualities that 
 have MoH fans coming back to the original all these years later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tinz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  I dusted off my copy recently and played this all the way through using a much newer rig (2008) . 
 With all the settings maxed out, this game is even more awesome than I remember!
  
  The graphics and model animations are very convincing and you really feel like you are in a WW2 
 environment. The weapon sounds are great and you can save whenever you want - no annoying checkpoints.
 
  
  There are some dull moments where you have to kill hordes of (x) to get to the next mission that 
 are sometimes very challenging, but on the whole, most missions are very addictive and have replay 
 value.
  
  This is definitely a classic FPS and there's no evil DRM! Some people have had graphics problems, 
 but these can be easily resolved by finding solutions in Google.
  
  This is one game that will never leave my bookcase! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reim00n
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 22, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor isn't very heavy on story. Instead, the game is split into six more or less disconnected 
 missions spread across more than 30 different levels. Rather than focus on creating memorable characters 
 or surprising plot twists, the developers at 2015 have taken an arguably more effective route by 
 constantly introducing memorable set pieces and surprising new gameplay elements. As in Half-Life, 
 you witness everything from the fixed first-person viewpoint of your character. All the "cutscenes" 
 are seamlessly integrated into the ongoing events of the level. Control is never taken away from 
 you. Just as in Half-Life, this technique is incredibly effective for creating a sense of both 
 urgency and of attachment to the game's environments. It's an ongoing mystery as to why developers 
 don't use this uninterrupted viewpoint more often. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orcsblade
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  This is the First World War 2 shooter I have played and I thought it was very good.
  
  The graphics are excellent, well back in 2002, but they still are.
  
  The level designs are 
 extremely well done I would give it a 10/10
  
  The sound effect are well done and they add atmosphere to the game
  
  Michael Giacchino composes 
 the music very well and it also adds great atmosphere to the game.
  
  The replay isn't that great because its like oh been there done that sort of thing, and the different 
 difficultly settings don't add much replay either.
  
  The game is quite hard at medium settings and it made it quite impossible to finish the last level 
 but I just about got there.
  
  The time on playing the game is kind of longish but it is quite easy to pick up and go.
  
  
 It's a very well made game and its well worth the money.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  ***NOTE: REVIEW IS FOR SINGLE PLAYER VERSION ONLY***
  
  From the very first mission, Medal of Honor Allied Assault explodes on your screen with the anxious 
 ride to the beach, waiting for the ramp to drop and get engulfed in a volly of machine gun fire, 
 motors, and artillery. Medal of Honor does a great job of making you feel panic under fire. The 
 sound of bullets wizzing by, the exploisions all around you, the yells from you fellow soldiers.... it 
 all just really helps make you feel like that your there. 
  
  This was really great FPS due to the fact that it was fairly simple, no complicated weapons or 
 levels, but yet a blast to play. Everything about this game was top notch. The mission design, 
 the graphics, the sound, the gameplay it was just all around enjoyable to play. 
  
  The gameplay is smooth and I didn't occur any bugs or glitches. The single player campaign did 
 seem a bit short thought, for me at least. The sounds match up perfectly to the accurate and detailed 
 WWII arsnal. All in all, it's a great game that's a must for any WWII buff!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _EXCON_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  MOHAA is definitely not a bad WWII game especially considering the fact that it laid the foundation 
 for what Call of duty has so marvelously achieved in presenting-War at its absolute best. MOHAA 
 doesn't exactly begin with a bang as war games should; Call of Duty 2, I think, has the dubious 
 distinction of having the biggest and THE MOST EXPLOSIVE start to any game till date- The Omaha 
 beach landing. MOHAA has a less intense version of the COD2 version of Omaha beach which is by 
 far THE BEST level in the entire game. The first few levels were quite boring that is to say it 
 wasn't much war like, it was Omaha beach that the marked a proper beginning to 'Allied Assault'. 
 MOHAA would have been better appreciated by me had I played it before playing call of duty. Now 
 it doesn't feel much different than what call of duty presents ten times better. It has too many 
 'behind enemy lines' kind of missions which can get rather boring at times. Not all missions put 
 u exactly amidst the mayhem of WWII. There isn't much to do except run and gun simultaneously and 
 might I add that in order to play some of the sniper missions really well u really need to have 
 THE SHARPEST EYES IN THE WORLD. You will encounter in MOHAA some of the most annoying snipers in 
 the world of single player gaming . You will not be able to notice them at all, neither the sound 
 nor will the dynamic lighting help u in any way to notice them nor will the damage indicator on 
 the compass. It won't be till your comrades shoot at the snipers and if u don't have any well.... 
 that's mighty bad for you. Of course there is always a chance that u might get lucky and spot some 
 or maybe all of them. Call of Duty is better in this aspect considering that at least the dynamic 
 lighting will definitely help you to see those snipers (Pavlov can be a perfect example) . The developers 
 have managed to place the snipers in such good positions that u can't pick them off without managing 
 to strain your eyes. The shotgun is powerful but lacks in accuracy; that is something I think applies 
 to almost all games with shotguns. There are plenty of ambushes spread across every level. Some 
 nice features were the system of calling in air strikes on tanks and flak-88s and being helped 
 by a medic. There are also missions requiring u to use stealth by changing disguises and picking 
 up documents to show your rank to the Germans who will "Heil" you on recognition. Graphics are 
 good, not bad at all thanks to the quake 3 engine. One good thing about using the Springfield sniper 
 rifle over here is that Lt. Powell (the lead character) has an extremely still hand and even when 
 your using the scope the crosshair will not sway making sniping a lot easier kind of like Halo. 
 The character models' static facial expressions make em look very weird. The Sound in MOHAA is 
 nice, not exactly mind blowing or ear drum bursting. MOHAA has a nice weapon cache most of it similar 
 to CoD. MOHAA esclusives were the panzershrek, the bazooka and shotgun. But some thing very odd 
 was that the ammo for the kar98k and the MP-42 somehow worked even for their American counterparts. 
 U have enemy tanks to pick off in some levels-some with the anti tank weapons and others while 
 driving a tank urself. Some situations are very similar to that of RTCW (return to castle wolfenstein) 
 like stealing documents about a new powerful weapon that the germans are secretly developing-stg 
 44 in MOHAA and Venom gun in RTCW and so on. The ending was kind of a surprise considering the 
 fact that it ended unexpectedly. The best weapon other than the sniper has to be the Thompson which 
 is even mightier than the CoD version. Among other annoyances are the alarms which will prove to 
 be a huge pain in the butt while u near the end of the game; the alarms spawn infinite no. of enemies 
 which can easily impede your progress. Among some other different things in MOHAA are avoiding 
 search lights and being awarded medals for 'heroic achievements' which are MOHAA exclusives. The 
 multiplayer is very enjoyable coupled with loads of smack talk. To sum up MOHAA for all those who 
 have already played CoD and RTCW it's just a mixture of both minus the sci-fi of RTCW and the intensity 
 of CoD plus some new features. A dissapointing start, some very annoying snipers, alsatians and 
 alarms and lots of mustard gas but at the end of it MOHAA is enjoyable. For all those still wondering 
 whether to play CoD or MOHAA, to them I say start with MOHAA and then move over to CoD and if I 
 had to choose between the two I would probably have to choose the CoD series which is by far way 
 above MOHAA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoD_killeru
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2008 5:53 am PT
Review:  This was a very good game in 2002, but now only few people like it.
  
  If you want to see the first Medal of Honor game for PC, try it, it's very good.
  The most exciting 
 parts of the game are the undercover missions (at 'Trondheim' and 'Siegfried Line') .
  
  The first 2 missions are extremely short, but the others, especially 'Siegfried Line', are long.
 
  
  In the game you are an American Infantrymen (Lt. Powell) , like other game in this series.
  
 
  You have to earn some medals (8) , and for someones you have to do special things, that are not 
 in relation with the mission objectives.
  
  The hardest part is at 'Omaha Beach' when you try to get to that trench across the field where 
 you are fired by machinegunners and that minefield in the finish, where I was killed very much.
 
  
  Overall, the game is awesome and must be played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Well, I'm writing this and it's been quite a while after I've played it. To be perfectly honest, 
 so many good games have been made on this topic that I've mixed them all up and don't know which 
 one this is. These games are all linear but still very well done and I couldp lay them no matter 
 how many of them they make. 
  
  So, I won't be specific and I will mark / rank all of the games on of this genre with the same 
 mark of 9.0 as I think they are all incredible but it is really hard to have a game worth 10 on 
 this usbject matter as long as they are linear. 
  
  The only game that will get 9.5 will be Brother in Arms: Earned in Blood 
  
  
  
  My marking 
 system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing if you have nothing else to play
  6 - 
 worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely anything 
 else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 as if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10)
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life.
  
  Best Wishes to everyone
  
  Zak 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  I've always liked the Medal of Honor series right from the Playstation, and Allied Assault takes 
 the cake. Easily the most memorable event would be the Normandy Beach take-down inspired from the 
 opening scene of Saving Private Ryan. It was like Spielberg himself directed the game, well in 
 fact he is one of the producers for this game, serious.
  
  Just like what everyone else who played this game always commented, the sound is fabulous. I had 
 a great speaker system pumping it out and I'm a happy man listening to the orchestration of adrenaline-rushing 
 bullet ricochets, hedge shots and thunderous mortar blasts. With Hollywood quality sound effects 
 that includes spatial ambient sfx, authentic weapon sounds and intricate Foley effects, it's worth 
 ditching your bundled pc speakers for a serious sound system just to play Allied Assault.
  
  The game's hard for the casual FPS player especially the Normandy Beach scene if you can't 
 handle chaotic camera shakes and multiple enemy shots firing at you simultaneously. BUT that's 
 what war feels like, and MOH: Allied Assault brought World War II closer to your heart than any 
 other WWII documentary or feature film you may have watched. This game rocks. Even if you're not 
 a FPS fan, try this classic out if you fancy WWII stuff.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weddlecm
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 24, 2007 7:18 am PT
Review:  Agh, Medal of Honor. One of the most invigorating war games of the century. This game specificly 
 to me is overated, it just has average game play, but I do like the graphics, sound, and gun selections. 
 One reason I like this game the most is the multiplayer online. There are tons of different people 
 you can play. From just who gets the most kills and capture the flag and things like that. If you 
 are new to the series I would most difinetly by this game, because it's only fifteen dollars at 
 any retail store. So go out there and try this game out, you will be satistied. 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspeck_1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  First of all lets get this straight: If you have never played COD or any of it's sequels, then 
 PLAY THIS FIRST! At first, if you have played Activision's hit WWII shooter, you will realize that 
 the graphics aren't as good, or the mission objectives aren't clear, or you you don't know where 
 the HECK to go, but, after a few levels, or at least until the Omaha Beach level, you will probably 
 appreciate the good solid meat inside this slightly overdone cheeseburger. Some things:
  
  Bodies, after being shot will fall in unnatural areas, heads disappearing in walls/doors, floating 
 3 feet above the ground if you kill them on stairs, and the two items dropped by the German rogues, 
 helmets and weapons, will constantly end up floating and circling around strangely. Sometimes, 
 if you are running around near or against a wall, you will float (anyone know the technical term 
 for this) , unable to control directly where you are going.
  
  The reason why this is revolutionary : The makers of this game, those many developers, well, at 
 least most of them, created this game, then moved on to Activision to create Call of Duty. Sure, 
 its not as good as COD, but you can see what the developers were thinking when the made COD. Lets 
 use MOH: AA as a backbone, but make this game: BETTER!
  
  Last Notes: Multiplayer bites, but the SP stealth missions ROCK! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skknight123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  WOW i dont know wat to say THE GAME IS GREAT great gameplay great graphics (for the time) and superb 
 sound. when i played it it was just like been in a movie. JUst great. and it has the best omaha 
 beach landing assault. It kicks the ass of other MOH games. ... Some small bugs but gREAT.........................
 
  also get spherhead expantuion is good and it has 1800+ people in the internet. i havent tried 
 the other one but this is a must buy...
  another bug nazi snipers are very anoying. the mp is superb and its quake 3 engine rage and destroy 
 others. i just love it . buy it is cheap and the warchestt cheap too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arnab9385
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  It wasn't as long as i expected it to be, but playing MOH : AA did leave me breathless. The beach 
 landing easily trumps Saving Private Ryan in terms of sheer intensity and is one of the most memorable 
 moments in (my) gaming history. The action is always fast paced, always maintaining the perfect 
 balance of realism and plain arcadeness. Its neither Tom Clancy-ish nor Virtua Cop-ish. Its just 
 in between.
  
  You do feel like a part of the World War when you play the game. Bodies fly all around as you fight 
 to survive the hell unfolding around you. No blood though. Guess they aimed for the teen rating.
 
  
  In short, game of the year material. Don't miss it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M3aBr0nz3
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Hats off to EA-Games this is the best 1st person shooter ever produced.. perfect game i'm speech 
 less.. just a small bit of advice to the competition give it up, you'll never produce a game like 
 this one Medal of Honor Allied assault.. the rest are just want to be's... Haha. The graphics are 
 just what you need meaning you don't have to go out and buy an expensive video card to play it, the 
 tech support is great, i mean just one patch is all you need .. Amazing! Is this game worth keeping 
 on the shelf at the stores for sale YES! is it worth every cent you spend on it? YES! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JakeOfRavenclaw
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 6:17 am PT
Review:  You know why the Medal of Honor series has such a reputation? Maybe it's because at least some 
 of the games in it are really, really good. This is one of them. It doesn't involve deep moral 
 conflicts or a complex story or detailed characters; it just provides a constant stream of intense 
 fun. Sometimes, as games become more and more concerned with realism, thats a quality which is 
 underestimated. Fortunately, we have games like Allied Assault to remind us how good run-and-gun 
 shooters can be.
  
  To the credit of the developers, they do do a lot to ensure the historical immersion of their game. 
 Missions are introduced with lengthy narrations, and the games weaponry is historically accurate. 
 Your enemies speak authentic German as well, and the voice acting is all around fantastic. There 
 are really only three types of enemies in the gamenormal soldiers, snipers and guard dogsbut 
 a larger than average variety of costuming and some fantastic death animations help keep them fresh 
 for the entire game. Their helmets will go flying after a headshot, theyll write in agony after 
 taking a direct hit, and theyre reasonably smart, tootheyll use cover well, and use and react 
 to grenades. They can also go prone when taking heavy fire, making them that much harder to hit. 
 The gameplay itself is wildly fun. Much of the action takes place inside of bunkers and buildings, 
 and firefights can and will erupt at any time. Enemies will run from doorway to doorway, blasting 
 the hell out of the environment as they go. Bullets are represented by streaks of flying light, 
 and bullet holes can appear almost everywhere, so things can get quite intense. Each time you get 
 hit, your view will jump around, so you cant just stay out in the open and soak up damageyou 
 have to shoot from behind cover and use your surroundings to your advantage. The level design is 
 superb. The developers make great use of vertical spacein one instance, youll be in a ventilation 
 shaft, firing through a grate in the floor; in another, youll be standing on a balcony overlooking 
 a room packed with Nazis. Youll also fight inside submarines and inside bathrooms, as well as 
 churches (both of the ruined and non-ruined variety) , farmhouses, train stations, and a host of 
 other locations. Theres also a good deal of less conventional gameplay as well. In one mission, 
 youll have to sneak into a German truck, kill the driver with your silenced pistol, club in inquisitive 
 guard to death, then steal his gun and use your shift key to sneak around an enemy base. In another, 
 youll need to obtain false papers and disguise yourself as a Nazi in order to sneak into a research 
 lab. These stealthy elements really help to mix up the frenzied pace of the rest of the game. You 
 can carry up to five weapons in addition to binoculars and grenades, and the health system is a 
 conventional Pick Up The Health Packs type. The difficultywell, youll die a lot, particularly 
 on the D-day mission. But the thing that prevents these deaths from becoming frustrating is that 
 you always die for a reason. The challenge comes from figuring out what you did wrong and trying 
 to fix it next time. On the normal setting, then, Id say that the game is slightly on the easy 
 side of average. The graphicswell, this game did come out in 2002. But the quality is good enough, 
 and, really, itd be a shame to miss a game thats this good simply because its not that shiny 
 (think of it this way: you wont have to upgrade your system to play!) . Allied Assault is a true 
 classic, and I can easily recommend it to anyone who has even a passing interest is shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rahulmohan212
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 3:06 am PT
Review:  The Game from beggining to end is extraordinary, You are powell you go through the life of being 
 a world war 2 soldier going in big events such as d day. The single player is amazing because so 
 much detail is put into the story alone and it is just plain fun but a bit tense at times. The multiplayer 
 is so dam good because it fells like you are in a actual war in ww2 which has modes like team deathmatch, free 
 for all, capture the flag, freeze tag, objective match and also round based match. I give this game 
 a straight 9.5 because graphics to the game is good but not good enough now and also the grenade 
 in the game is quiet rubbish because its hard to throw far. The game has upto over 10 weapons which 
 sounds small but really your spoilt with choice. If you want to buy this I think its a great idea 
 because u will enjoy it alot!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DodgeDuty
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 1, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honor is a solid bargain bin game ( I bought it with the expansions Breakthrough and Spearhead 
 included in the box for $15! ) . The Good:
  Some of the stealth action is great, including a infiltration level where you're disguised as a 
 german. Good 2002 graphics, average now. Non-solo missions have amazing AI squadmates, as they 
 can also do most of the killing. The dogs require fast reflexes.
  
  The Bad:
  German Snipers have amazing accuracy. Sometimes you get hit even though a german is running and 
 shooting with the gun pointing away from you. Not enough cover, and when there is, it is placed 
 at weird locations. Multiplayer is the average Joe. Some glitches in multiplayer and single player. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 26, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  In today's world a WW2 game is to video games what a horror movie is to the movies, they were in 
 but now they are old and the ideas are dated and people are getting sick of them and a perfect 
 ten could come along and people would completely forget blow it off. Luckily this game came out 
 when the idea was still new and exciting. This game first starts you off in Amfrica then before 
 you know it, your thrusted into D-Day like you were shot out of a cannon, and following the story 
 line of Saving Private Ryan, this level has your glued to your mouse and once you beat it you'll 
 madly want to play it again, and guess what you will atleast five times. Yeah, once you get really 
 good you can change the difficulty levels as well. Many other levels reminded me of Saving Private 
 Ryan and that is ok to me. If you've seen the movie as many times as I have you'll notice the similarities 
 in some of the locals. The controls are very good, even though there could have been more weapons, 
 but hey this is the first half of teh century so they didnt have all the weapons we have now a 
 days. The graphics dont hold a candle to some of the PC games out now, but it is still super intense. 
 I think one thing that was cool about this game is during the D-Day level, there is nothing more 
 intense then seeing men in front of you get shot down, and other boats carrying your firends get 
 blown to nothing and there is no blood. You dont need gore to be intesne and EA has proved that 
 with this series. There is a good chance that your PC will be able to run this game so definately 
 pick it up over the horrible console port Frontline. This game is so great I could praise it forever 
 and give you hundreds of reasons why you should play it and get hooked as I have. This game is 
 a long adventerous road that will take you behind enemy lines, and posing as a German guard to 
 destroy U-Boats. The stealth missions are great, they're not so much stealth as just sniping people 
 before they see you. This game has it all and does it all. This game is only comparable to the 
 other super monster MOH hit MOH: Underground. This is definatley a game that you need to pick up, 
 becuase not only is it fun it is super cheap. MOH should stay on the PC and be dead on the consoles. 
 Well, that or they better step it up a notch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PerfectJones
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 16, 2007 9:33 pm PT
Review:  I remember a long while back I tried out Medal of Honor for the PS. This was back when the PS hadn't 
 been out too long. Saving Private Ryan had been out for some time and had introduced or reintroduced 
 in many of us an interest for World War II. Medal of Honor the PS game was made as a result of 
 this interest. It was really mindblowing to me when I played it, especially the sound. The game 
 controlled fairly well too and the enemy intellegence was (and still is) quite smart. Of all the 
 games around at that time, that's the one I wanted but never got.
  
  Later on I saw a Medal of Honor game for PC and really wanted it but alas, my computer at the time 
 couldn't run it. So I held out until it was upgraded. After this I bought it fairly soon and I 
 remember having to pay like $30 for it, even though it had been out for 2 or 3 years. I bought 
 it and played it consistently for a long time. However I never finished it all of the way through 
 until the end until about 3 years after that. Some of the levels were abnormally hard, like snipers 
 last stand where you would get sniped before you even spotted the sniper. The game also got a little 
 repetitive towards the end. But I beat it nonetheless.
  
  The sound for MOHAA was phenominal. I mean it blew you away. The graphics were good too. But the 
 gameplay- the meat of the game- was the best part. Whether you were sneaking around, blowing things 
 up with a tank, trying to survive Normandy beach, clearing out a church, (etc.) , you were well 
 immersed in WWII.
  
  The multiplayer for MOHAA was really a good package too. I mean the game ships with a good number 
 of multiplayer game modes and maps and even today if you play it online there are tons of people 
 playing it. Unfortunately today many people play the objective maps like counter strike which is 
 lame to me because only two objective maps are good to play round-based and they get old. But whatever.
 
  
  Now I also have COD and I have also played that one all the way through. However, while COD is 
 a good game it doesn't fully replace medal of honor. Medal of Honor is much deeper to me with a 
 story that's brought out more than in COD where they seem to downplay a lot of story and throw 
 you into firefight after firefight. Because COD is so battle oriented these battles play out much 
 better than MOHAA's tend to, especially considering the fact that your teamates put in more of 
 fight in COD than in MOHAA. And MOHAA does have this bad habit of instilling this feeling like 
 your the lone hero of WWII which obviously is unrealistic. COD however I think downplays your character 
 too much to the point where you feel your just a nameless soldier. Ultimately it's easy to see 
 that there wouldn't be COD without MOHAA. Personally I think both have special merits, and they 
 compliment each other quite well if you end up getting both. This was probably the intent as many 
 of the developers of MOHAA also made COD and probably figured it would be best for marketing to 
 make these games different and complimentary.
  
  In any case MOHAA is still a game worth having. If you like it but want more of the battles get 
 COD. If you like the whole adventure aspect of it (along with the action) and want more get MOHAA's 
 expansions. In my opinion before you get COD or Batllefield 1942 or whatever is new in WWII FPS 
 games get MOHAA. It's cheap and can run even on older computers; it still looks, sounds and plays 
 great; it's highly influencial on the new WWII games no doubt; and I'll bet you won't be dissapointed 
 with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filaria
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 12, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  MOHAA is definitely not a bad WWII game especially considering the fact that it laid the foundation 
 for what Call of duty has so marvelously achieved in presenting-War at its absolute best. MOHAA 
 doesn't exactly begin with a bang as war games should; Call of Duty 2, I think, has the dubious 
 distinction of having the biggest and THE MOST EXPLOSIVE start to any game till date- The Omaha 
 beach landing. MOHAA has a less intense version of the COD2 version of Omaha beach which is by 
 far THE BEST level in the entire game. The first few levels were quite boring that is to say it 
 wasn't much war like, it was Omaha beach that the marked a proper beginning to 'Allied Assault'. 
 MOHAA would have been better appreciated by me had I played it before playing call of duty. Now 
 it doesn't feel much different than what call of duty presents ten times better. It has too many 
 'behind enemy lines' kind of missions which can get rather boring at times. Not all missions put 
 u exactly amidst the mayhem of WWII. There isn't much to do except run and gun simultaneously and 
 might I add that in order to play some of the sniper missions really well u really need to have 
 THE SHARPEST EYES IN THE WORLD. You will encounter in MOHAA some of the most annoying snipers in 
 the world of single player gaming . You will not be able to notice them at all, neither the sound 
 nor will the dynamic lighting help u in any way to notice them nor will the damage indicator on 
 the compass. It wont be till your comrades shoot at the snipers and if u don't have any well.... 
 thats mighty bad for you. Of course there is always a chance that u might get lucky and spot some 
 or maybe all of them. Call of Duty is better in this aspect considering that at least the dynamic 
 lighting will definitely help you to see those snipers (Pavlov can be a perfect example) . The developers 
 have managed to place the snipers in such good positions that u can't pick them off without managing 
 to strain your eyes. The shotgun is powerful but lacks in accuracy; that is something I think applies 
 to almost all games with shotguns. There are plenty of ambushes spread across every level. Some 
 nice features were the system of calling in air strikes on tanks and flak-88s and being helped 
 by a medic. There are also missions requiring u to use stealth by changing disguises and picking 
 up documents to show your rank to the Germans who will Heil you on recognition. Graphics are 
 good, not bad at all thanks to the quake 3 engine. One good thing about using the Springfield sniper 
 rifle over here is that Lt. Powell (the lead character) has an extremely still hand and even when 
 your using the scope the crosshair will not sway making sniping a lot easier kind of like Halo. 
 The character models' static facial expressions make em look very weird. The Sound in MOHAA is 
 nice, not exactly mind blowing or ear drum bursting. MOHAA has a nice weapon cache most of it similar 
 to CoD. MOHAA esclusives were the panzershrek, the bazooka and shotgun. But some thing very odd 
 was that the ammo for the kar98k and the MP-42 somehow worked even for their American counterparts. 
 U have enemy tanks to pick off in some levels-some with the anti tank weapons and others while 
 driving a tank urself. Some situations are very similar to that of RTCW (return to castle wolfenstein) 
 like stealing documents about a new powerful weapon that the germans are secretly developing-stg 
 44 in MOHAA and Venom gun in RTCW and so on. The ending was kind of a surprise considering the 
 fact that it ended unexpectedly. The best weapon other than the sniper has to be the Thompson which 
 is even mightier than the CoD version. Among other annoyances are the alarms which will prove to 
 be a huge pain in the butt while u near the end of the game; the alarms spawn infinite no. of enemies 
 which can easily impede your progress. Among some other different things in MOHAA are avoiding 
 search lights and being awarded medals for 'heroic achievements' which are MOHAA exclusives. The 
 multiplayer is very enjoyable coupled with loads of smack talk. To sum up MOHAA for all those who 
 have already played CoD and RTCW it's just a mixture of both minus the sci-fi of RTCW and the intensity 
 of CoD plus some new features. A dissapointing start, some very annoying snipers, alsatians and 
 alarms and lots of mustard gas but at the end of it MOHAA is enjoyable. For all those still wondering 
 whether to play CoD or MOHAA, to them I say start with MOHAA and then move over to CoD and if I 
 had to choose between the two I would probably have to choose the CoD series which is by far way 
 above MOHAA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misha97
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jun 8, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  Ok, I got this a present from a freind.
  I opened it, I was excited, and BOO, I did not like what I saw.
  Maybe the graphics are cool 
 but the gameplay is hard, annoying, and you feel like you want to get through it quick and say 
 good-bye.
  I only beat the first level of the game and the second one is WAY too hard. The Germans are in 
 white camoflauge suits and Im getting shot with a machine gun like crazy and don't know where it's 
 coming from.
  Okay I almost got killed, i'm walking happily behind a building and BAM in my face some kind of 
 dog comes and KO's me in 1 hit! MAN IM PLAYING ON EASY HERE!! I don't re-call having problems like 
 this in Battlefield on Hard!
  And you can't ride in vehicles, poor weapons choice, way too hard.
  Maybe I'm a RTS game and MMORPG 
 game fan, I like Battlefield but this game is totally not the way it could be.
  My advice stay away from it and play Battlefield. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarnaath
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 2, 2007 1:38 am PT
Review:  I thought this game was a mess. The missions were haphazard and nonsensical, and the maps themselves 
 were obviously contrived to be difficult. The invasion of Omaha beach was amazing, but the waltz 
 though the German forest was tedious. How much fun is it really to battle enemies you can see? 
 Never mind SniperTown, a shocking failure of decent level design.
  
  Even with patch 1.11, I could not complete the SniperTown mission because one of the tank team 
 would not gather to the tank. I had to shoot him in the head to get him to move. Then in the tiger 
 tank mission using the binoculars to call strikes on enemy tanks did not consistently work. Bugs 
 weren't a huge issue it the game, but bothersome enough that I was cursing at the screen.
  
  But bugs aside, later missions never failed to elicit a groan. I thought less about WWII with 
 this game than about what the game developers must have been thinking when they designed the later 
 levels ( How hard can we possibly make THIS level? ) . Infinite enemies are always bad. Split second 
 timing that can only be learned by 20-30 reloads is not good FPS level design. Enemies spawning 
 behind you in an enclosed area that you've cleared out is cheating. After playing the last 15 secs 
 of the ending over and over 20+ times I can't imagine how it can be pulled off without being in 
 god mode. There's not enough ammo in a clip to kill every one in the time allotted (although I 
 didn't try grenades, there didn't seem to be enough time) , and hanging back and reloading always 
 meant death for me. Ultimately I'm woefully disappointed in this game. I love a challenge, but 
 not one that seems to be unfairly balanced.
  
  Difficulty wasn't well balanced. I played on medium and the first half of the game was fine. But 
 near the end I wished I could have switched to easy. There's only so much reloading you can do 
 before frustration overwhelms the fun you are supposed to be having.
  
  Call of Duty was a huge improvement in the FPS war genre. If you haven't played that, and are looking 
 at MOHAA, go with Call of Duy first. I first bought this game 3 or 4 years ago but could never 
 get through SniperTown so abandoned it. 3 days ago I decided to try it again and got through the 
 dreaded sniper level (with a ridiculous amount of saving and reloading) and just finished the game. 
 I'm not sold on the rest of the franchise. I don't think I'll bother with any other MOH game again. 
 Which is a shame. The game could have been very, very good. But ultimately the designers overshot 
 the 'challenging and engaging' mark and landed in 'contrived and cheating to be difficult' territory. 
 Not good.
  
  I've had more fun with less well reviewed FPS games (Area 51 comes to mind) . Maybe it's just me. 
 Dunno. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snarekick
Rating: 9
Date: May 27, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  You look back to the end of the twentieth century, shortly after Steven Spielberg's Saving Private 
 Ryan when a different kind of shooter was released. It was called Medal of Honor, the beginning 
 of WW2 in gaming, but not the start of the craze. It tried to bring you an experience like no other, 
 by putting you in the boots of a WW2 soldier.
  
  Thanks to the popularity of Goldeneye back then, Medal of Honor didn't quite get the recognition 
 it deserved. Following, was the sequel MOH: Underground, where you took the role of a female French 
 spy. That sadly didn't go anywhere much either, but in a matter of years, the WW2 genre was officially 
 born and heard of. It was before the Call of Duty series began. It was way before Brothers in Arms 
 began. It was before any of these numerous games that tired out the genre and took the uniqueness 
 out of it. Before any of these, was a Medal of Honor game devoloped by EA, which took a huge turn 
 for the series.
  Medal of Honor: Allied Assault was released to the public and showed gamers a true way of how to 
 experience WW2.
  
  This game was very popular for many reasons and I'm starting off with gameplay. There are few flaws 
 to found in it, which means a great game. Since it was really the first, Allied Assault isn't the 
 most realistic, when it comes to physics or the weapons you hold, but the game's solid. There's 
 a good handle on the weapons and there's plenty of levels to play and a variety of immersive missions, 
 including the D-Day invasion seen in Saving Private Ryan. There are few things I didn't quite understand 
 in this game. You can only melee attack with your pistol and only aim down with sniper scope. The 
 other thing is that you can carry fives weapons at once, some probably twice your weight. Fortunately, 
 enemies are never too far away so you barely need your steel sights.
  
  The sound is superb. Just about every WW2 shooter has had great sound, and this one has one of 
 the top five best. Every Medal of Honor game has great sound, thanks to THX, who do a womderful 
 job. The weapons sound realistic. The explosions are extraordinary and the voices of your men fit 
 in just right.
  
  The graphics are great for that time period, even for today they're exceptional. Characters look 
 good. but the backgrounds look even better. Effects are wonderful and realistic and the look of 
 your weapons are unflawed.
  
  After Call of Duty 3 came out, we knew that the WW2 genre would soon come to an end. All of these 
 other games, mostly fantastic, kind of took the WW2 genre too far and tried their best to create 
 a different experience each time. Call of Duty transformed to modern day, because it was the most 
 simple, while games like Brothers in Arms, took a more creative approach. Sadly, with all these 
 games out there, it looks like WW2 is over if Medal of Honor of Airborme fails.
  
  If this type of game is over, then so be it. We might all start playing western shooters eventually 
 or go gaga over sci-fi again, but Allied Assault is such a well liked and highly recognized game, 
 that it will never be forgotten when these games die off. Someday, developers might look back to 
 a game such as Allied Assault and start the WW2 craze all over again. But for now, Medal of Honor 
 and other series' will try to continue their run unitl they're dry, but as long we have Allied 
 Assault, we'll have a good old, incredilby well made shooter that will be still played for years 
 to come. You just can't help but kill some krauts who corrupted the world every once in a while. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheWiseolDragon
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 21, 2007 4:15 am PT
Review:  The very first Medal of Honor games for PC. This game is complete with over 20+ missions and goal 
 and has 11 multi-player map. In my opinion, this is the most creative and innovating game in the 
 series so far. The Single player missions are unique and very realistic. The music is perfect for 
 this game and the maps are mind-blowing, which make a perfect game for those shooter fans. What 
 make this campaigns hard is the enemy AI players, there aiming is a bit too perfect. I've been 
 killed by an german soldier well over 100+ and was very welled covered, for crying out loud. I 
 would recommend you come up with a stragety before charging in like a wild gorilla and getting 
 sprayed by axi bullets from all sides. So the SP campaign is unique and reall fun. Hmm, About Multi-player. 
 there alot of benefits to choose from. You get Free-For-All, Team-Death-Match, Round BaseMatch, 
 and Objective Matches. There are mods too for this game. For example, BaseBuilder this mod let 
 you built your own base using sandbags, Boxes, Barbwires, Etc. The mulitplayer is very fun and this 
 make you want to play this game longer for time to come. Whats bad about it, is that about every 
 server lacks its defense from cheats and hacks. There is about one hacker/cheater in each server 
 that you might not realise all. So if you want to get the best out of this mulitplayer game. I 
 recommend you pick the right server. So to wrap things up, this game is very addicting for shooters 
 fans, This is A must Have for hose Fans out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 19, 2007 12:25 am PT
Review:  If you want to feed your addiction to WW2 based shooter and have not played Medal of Honor Allied 
 Assault -- you really have missed something. MOHAA is easily one of the best WW2 shooters that comes 
 in a brilliant package of visuals and game design.
  The MOHAA puts you in action right from the beginning (well, the beginning has a small training 
 that is very easy and logical) and sends you off to a mission. In most ways this game is so close 
 to Call of Duty, yet you won't feel that you have played this game before (if you have played COD 
 before) . The MOHAA assignments are pre-designed. This does not mean that it lacks creativity or 
 excitement -- because the way you have to play it is full of challenges. This game proceeds on a 
 auto-save system. When you accomplish a mission, that is automatically saved. But if you stick 
 to autosave only, I believe this game could take an eternity to complete -- as some of the missions 
 are really very hard. You can make good progress by saving it at will at critical points.
  MOHAA presents authentic style WW2 arms and ammo. At times you will find using a sniper rifle is 
 cool, and other times you'd want to use to enemy machine guns.
  The brilliant graphics, sound and good game design and difficulties put this game in Class A category 
 for all gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 18, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay was pretty fun in Allied Assualt. The game starts off with you storming 
 Omaha beach whici is exactly like in the movie Saving Private Ryan . I got to play with many weapson 
 like the Tompson, colt.45, M-1 Grand and the MP-40 and so on. But it seems that you can carry every 
 single type of gun in the game which is quite unrealistic.
  The AI is accually not bad in this game. The enemy would shifr from side to side and try to shoot 
 you or try to get behind cover and get there guns over the edge and squeeze off a few shots at 
 you. But sometimes the enemy is just plain stupid where they would just stand there and keepe on 
 trying to shoot you. Speaking of the enemy, them's were some sneaky S. O. Bs. They'd run for cover 
 and even stick their weapons out from around corners just to get a pop at ya. Worst of all were 
 those damn snipers. The one that gets you is always the one you never see. And speaking of the 
 enemy, them's were some sneaky sons of **** They'd run for cover and even stick their weapons out 
 from around corners just to get a pop at ya. Worst of all were those damn snipers. The one that 
 gets you is always the one you never see. There is also a multiplayer part of game. You get your 
 Stardard Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch. Also there is capture the flag aswell as a mode where 
 you have to go and disable some bombs or plant some bombs before the enemy does the same to you. 
 What I did not like was all the guns had almost the same amout of power. I could shoot the B. A. R 
 or MP-40 in a huge room and still have a good chance of killing someone. Also the people who slide 
 while shooter is quite annoying. There are quite alot of people still playing and it's like a World 
 War 2 CS.
  The controls of the game are standard for PC FPS; the mouse controls your players view and firing 
 and the keyboard for movement. Of course if you have a wheel mouse, that comes in handy when using 
 the sniper rifle.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are pretty good but not the best I have seen for a shooter at that point 
 in time since the relase of halo. The graphics are based on an updated Quake III: Team Arena engine, 
 but there is still great effects with the explotions and everything is well detailed like in the 
 urban areas. Sound: The game is amazing, many games skip out in providing a memorable soundtrack, 
 but not MOH: AA. EA is well know for having good and memorable soundtracks in there games. While 
 you are playing, there is always either stirring strings in the background or a swelling orchestral 
 measure to build the intensity during a sniping session. It is like you are in a moviein factthere 
 are so many parts in the game where you actually feel like youre in Saving Private Ryan. Everything 
 from the gunfire to the voice action is very wel done.
  
  Value: All in all this is a good game with a few unrealistic flaws to it that are somewhat forgivable. 
 There is a good replayability in the single player aswell as the Multiplayer parts of the game. 
 I give this game 9.0 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abridgers71
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 3, 2007 6:21 am PT
Review:  I was expecting a little more like a COD type of a game, but this is really fun, but sometimes 
 extremely frustrating game because of all the fire you take in certain missions. This will guarantee 
 you replaying some parts over and over and over agian before finally figuring out the right combination 
 of luck, reflexes, and aiming accuracy. That's not a bad thing; it gives the game alot of I'm going 
 to get through this no matter WHAT !!!! determination ( I swear I've played 1 section more than 
 20 times before FINALLY making it through alive!) The weapons are various in look, ammo, shooting 
 style, and stopping power and they are fairly realistic. There's alot of nicely rendered and accuratly 
 portrayed WWII arms in this game ( I know the 1911 .45 auto was the sidearm of the day , but in 
 this game, DITCH IT - it's worthless; it's not accurate outside 30' and you pretty much have to 
 pump all 8 rounds into an opponent to drop him) My father-in-law collects WWII arms (and has a 
 Class 3 / NFA license for automatic wepons) so I've actually shot alot of the guns in this game 
 at the range. I only have 2 gripes about this game: (1) no belly crawl movement; you can crouch 
 but I wish you could slither under enemy fire (2) No handgrande tossing without changing weapons; 
 i. e. storing your gun... you'll get shot ALOT b/c the grenades are just awkward to use in a tight 
 spot where you're really in the weeds. In FarCry , you just press the G button and toss even with 
 your rifle in your hand ---- i like the way that works and wish MOH had that feature. All in all, 
 this is a solid performing and fun game that won't overtax your system (even modest systems can 
 run this game at good res, fps, and gameplay) . The graphics are not super top shelf texturing, 
 but they do a great job in compromising between eye-candy good looks and fast frame rates. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btiddy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 26, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  This game is so much fun. It has great graphics and sound, and the gameplay is awesome. I honestly 
 couldn't wait to start playing it... of course MOH Pacific Assault has better graphics and weapons, 
 but honestly I think that this game is amazing. Play it as soon as you can because although there 
 have been a lot of WWII games, this one is awesome. The whole series is really cool and realistic 
 and fun... but this is the one that started it all so play it! -We the willing, led by the unknowing, 
 are doing the impossible for the ungrateful. We have done so much, with so little, for so long, 
 that we are now prepared to do anything with nothing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Schumock
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Ok, now, I know all of you must be wondering, How does a game so old get a perfect? Well Ill 
 explain it plain and simple for you, its AMAZING!!!
  
  Gameplay: (My rating, 10) I gave gameplay a 10 because: (1.) The A. I. of the Nazis in this game 
 are outstanding, even all the games Ive played this year (2007) dont nearly measure up to the 
 A. I. in this game. Say you shoot with a sniper and miss, not only will the A. I. react and take 
 cover but also they will adjust (change) their weapons accordingly to take you out. (2.) The single-player 
 missions range from extreme intensity like the D-Day mission, to complete nerve-racking OSS missions 
 where you sneak around killing Nazis with a silenced-pistol. (3.) The gameplay doesnt feel outdated 
 in any way; it simply doesnt feel like anything you have experienced before.
  Graphics: (My rating, 10) Ok, compared to current day video games the graphics may feel a little 
 old. However, I cant even run this game with the entire graphic and advanced settings maxed out 
 (my video card is a Raedon X1300, possibly X1300pro, I dont remember) . The smoke in this game 
 is REALLY thick and realistic, which is something some games these days cant say for themselves. 
 Also, the shadows are great, there is nothing like sneaking around as OSS seeing a shadow coming 
 down a hallway and crapping your pants!!!
  Sound: (My rating, 10) The sound is the best I have heard in a WWII shooter to date, bullets whizzing 
 by, grenades exploding, and nothing beats the MoH orchestra, THEY ARE AMAZING!!! Nothing like being 
 in a really intense moment and having those guys start up, it magnifies the experience ten-fold!!!
 
  Value: (My rating, 10) The replay-value for this game is just phenomenal. I was really getting 
 sick of waiting ten minutes for a CoD2 map to load so I popped this game in and expected the wait 
 time to be shorter but not 15 seconds. Also going back to SP is fun to try and earn all the medals. 
 As far as price goes you can get the whole warchest for like thirty bucks and get Allied Assault, 
 Spearhead, and Breakthrough, which I a great deal.
  Tilt: (My, rating, you guessed it 10) I am not sure what it means by tilt, but over all this game 
 is AMAZING so I would recommend this game to any WWII FPS fan, noob, or elite!
  PLEASE recommend this review if you liked it! Thank-you for reading! =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ready2freeze
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 2, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  This game, i must say, is really something i had not expected.
  
  Its graphics are sooo good, ok, i agree with that that there are more better games with far better 
 graphics, but hey, this game is a kind or REVOLUTION from the old to the new age.
  
  Its sound is incredibly good, u can hear the real bombing, the real gun shots and the real sounds 
 of planes and engines.
  
  The storyline is so great, and most of all, extremely exciting, which makes you wanna play this 
 game over and over again.
  
  But i must say that the mode is unfair. Like, if u go and play with the Easy mode, there are still 
 these missions where u will be sweating trying to find the guy that is shooting at you.
  
  All in all, this game is really good and a good introduction to WW2.
  
  And as i said before, 
 it is also and introduction to the NEW AGE OF GAMES 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon124
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 31, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  Lets admit it WW2 is old school now. Yes the bloodshed, yes the deaths and at first it was like 
 ain't that game great cause it captures how brutal and scary the war is and now it is like ok ok 
 we get the picture WW2 is bloody, yes every marine used the same wooden rifle , yes we know how 
 charging up Omaha beach can be fun and scary blah blah (no offense to any1 who find me offensive 
 for saying that) But once u forget that there is another dozen games exactly the same as this one 
 it gets okay. Gameplay isn't bad, the effect r good and the storyline is just based on WW2. Graphics 
 aren't bad and low system requirements for it as well. Sound is excellent. The multiplayer is good 
 but when I was looking through the servers this is what happened. Nice 2000 servers online..... 
 only 400hundred ppl online???? I literilly had to look through at least ONE THOUSAND servers with 
 no one on it!!! but once u get a game it is a big thumbs up. Out of all the WW2 games this is near 
 the top (never tried CoD but don't think I will with the same weapons and atmoshpere) but nothing 
 will be new here. The same M1 Garand (or something) then the thompson, then the BAR, then the Springfield 
 sniper, can't forget frag and sticky grenades and w8 don't miss out the Colt and Walter pistols. 
 (that was just off the top of my head saying the weapons most likely to be in every WW2 shooter 
 such as Brothers in Arms, MoH and CoD. If i was right that just proves WW2 games r all the same) 
 Producers everywhere!!!!! (espically EA cause they make good games) MAKE FPS SET IN MODERN OF FUTURE 
 TIMES such as BF2142 which was amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 22, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor: Allied Assault may be old but it is certainly a gem. With three games avaliable 
 there is around 20 hours of gameplay total, 10 or so in the original, and 5 in each of the expansions.
 
  
  The graphics in AA are decent for its time but the real thing that stood out to me was it's A. I. 
 In 2002 when it was released it's A. I. had to be one of the best in a game out yet. The nazi's 
 take cover often and squeeze shots off from the corners of walls. The move to better posiitions 
 when needed and capitalize on your mistakes when you don't cover yourself well enough. The main 
 point is that they were advanced for their time and it should be acknowleged.
  
  Gameplay in AA moves along well but at time can be unrealistic because you can just spray and pray 
 in close quarters and take barely any damage. From far away it is different, Enemies are snap shots 
 and it takes longer to take them out. Most of the missions have you playing solo or along side 
 a small team of friendlies, usually two or three. Your buddies provide cover fire for you but don't 
 effect the game that much. The solo parts can feel unrealistic because of the amount of enemies 
 you take out but it is still fun. Objectives vary and are different than in most games. Instead 
 of just clearing a bunker or take this area you will have to sabotage enemy vehicles or bomb a 
 certain key position. This aspect makes for a better experience. My only complaint is that you 
 can't choose your weapons or switch them whilst on a mission. This can bog down the fun factor 
 when for example you want to use you M1 Garand upclose but are stuck with a Springfield Sniper 
 Rifle which doesn't perform as well upclose.
  
  In a nutshell Medal of Honor: AA is one of the reasons WWII games became so popular and with the 
 2 expansions you get more gameplay out of Allied Assault. With that said this collection should 
 be on every WWII buffs shelf.
  
  Pros+
  Good shooting/gameplay mechanic, various objectives, Smart A. I.
  
  Cons-
  No weapons choice/switching, 
 graphics are dated for our time, unrealistic missions that you solo without friendly help 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kilualmighty
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  There is very little else to say about this game. The story is subpar WW2 stuff, animations are 
 ugly, enemy AI ranges from total idiots to clairvoyant sharpshooters even on the easiest difficulty, 
 friend AI is never good and the action is repetitive at best.
  
  The highlight of this game is no doubt the sounds landscape. Musics by Michael Giacchino are great 
 and set the mood very well, but it's unfortunate that most of it is recycled from the earlier PSX 
 games. While this doesn't make the music bad in itself, it does make the game seem more and more 
 a halfassed job. The effects are fitting and sound authentic and create a little flesh to this 
 skeleton of a game.
  
  What rubs me the wrong way the most in this game are the omniscient enemies. Too often I have been 
 shot at from a distance greater than the game even draws, too often the enemies magically know 
 my location to the exact spot I'm in, and too often I have been spotted even when I'm behind an 
 enemy sneaking as well as the game allows me to. This game gives the German superior race a whole 
 new meaning.
  
  On the flipside, at some points the enemy AI is just beyond retarded. No one wonders where the 
 missing soldiers go, there is no alarm if a soldier on patrol finds a body of a comrade lying in 
 his path. It just doesn't quite add to the realism of the game.
  
  All in all, this feels like the game was rushed out to PC just to establish the franchise on this 
 platform. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beefycake
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  ohhhhhhh... I know what youre all thinking.. how could i possibly love a game thats almost 6 years 
 old. There tons of other great games that are far superior in many shape and form. Lets not forget 
 there are also other amazing WW2 based games. So why bother playing this.. this old games. Simple.... I 
 truelly a masterpiece! Considering its time of release.. Medal of Honor: Allied Assault was actually 
 quite a breakthrough in gaming experience. Though its hard to imagine how much videogames has changed 
 in the gaming world today, Medal of Honor: Allied Assault was the game of choice back then. So 
 what makes this games really good? Medal of Honor: Allied Assault is a WW2 based shooter, where 
 step into the combat boots of Lt. Mike Powell, a man who doesnt know the meaning of not fighting. 
 The are odd against him.. almost 1 vs the pesky Nazis. Youll venture through many places, such as 
 Africa, Into the heart of a U-Boat docks, and the famous Omaha Beach landing on D-day!, As usually, 
 youll be familiar with the classic WW2 weapons, the colt 45, the mp40, M-1 garand, the Panzershrek 
 and my favorite the THOMPSON! Once again the Nazi are the baddies in the game, and dont think there 
 easy to fight and easy to out smart.. no way IN HELL!!. The Nazis in this Medal of Honor are truelly 
 hard core fighters, there excellent shooters, they know when to take cover and the A. I of these 
 computer baddies are just Terriflying ( In a really good way) The game itself is quite reasonable 
 in length, there up to 6 missions, each of which gets harder and harder. The gameplay is much similiar 
 to any other FPS you may have play, reloading, jumping shooting etc. pretty simple. But the highlight 
 of this game.. is the Hollywood quality sound.. the sound in Medal of honor is just breathtaking. 
 The voicing is incredible, The sound effects are awesone, the musically score is terrific!!!
  So, is there any problems with this game? Well considering all the mayhem, the killing and the 
 combant.. you will never see a drop of BLOOD...... PERIOD!! and im dead serious!!
  GAMEPLAY: Easy to handle, similiar to other FPS
  GRAPHICS: Nice and impressive ( condering its 
 time)
  SOUND: JUST TOP NOTCH ASS KICKING SOUND!!!!!!!
  VALUE: Plenty of combant and several good missions
  ORIGINALity: Its just like other WW2 FPs.. 
 only this one ROCKS!
  OVERALL: great experince!!
  
  So, no matter what i cant really say that this games is to old to touch, to me its a great game. 
 And just remember, you cant judge a book by its cover, cause you'll be surprised what youd find! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secretsk8r
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 3, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  After just a few hours of playing the game, it made me think allot more of what life was like on 
 the battle field. The game has great graphics and the sound was great too, after playing it I was 
 literally on the edge of my seat with my face pressed against the screen, I was so scared that someone 
 was gonna pop around the corner at anytime. This game really reflects the incidents of World War 
 2 and how God was with the men and women that fought there, the game is one of the best games I 
 have ever played, in fact I played it like four times and was still scared every time I played. My 
 personal opinion as a Christian was that the game was going to be the work of the devil, but when 
 I found out that this really happened, I began to see how it really was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chandu83
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 27, 2007 12:16 am PT
Review:  I didnt know what to expect from Medal of Honor when I started playing it. I had no idea that 
 the game was based on the solid Quake 3 engine. Having started the game, it strong resemblance 
 to Return to Castle Wolfinstein was striking, which basically means solid visuals are guaranteed 
 throughout the game.
  
  So I wont even talk about the visual aspect, because its bound to be very good, after all, we 
 are talking about the Quake 3 engine, which was also used for Call of Duty, albeit modified.
  
  About the gameplay itself, its a standard FPS game, although you are joined by other soldiers 
 a few times, it doesnt happen a lot, and more often than not, its up to the player to do the 
 job. And what a job it is! Although the basic premise of the game remains the same, the missions 
 are varied enough to keep you playing. There are escort missions, sniper missions and more, you 
 even get to drive a tank, although its a little sluggish... but I have played Battlefield 2 just 
 a while before playing those particular missions and naturally it feels that way, however its 
 not frustrating.
  
  There is wide range of levels as well, from Africa to Austria, so that gives a lot of variety. 
 The AI of both the enemy soldiers and team mates is a bit of both good and bad, or should I say 
 mediocre. The enemy snipers seem to spot you no matter where you are hidden, behind bushes, trees 
 etc. and I have tried to use stealth to catch them off guard, but it almost never worked for me, 
 so I used to the classic way of going about the business  attack head on and shot till you hit! 
 Of course, the sniper rifle in your armory is very effective, and I used it quite a lot as well.
 
  
  One of the things I found really strange about the game was that ammunition lying on the ground 
 after you kill an enemy soldier would strangely disappear after a minute or sothis was a little 
 annoying, but then in the large scheme of things, it wouldnt matter a whole lot.
  
  Over all, I have thoroughly enjoyed playing this game, and I would definitely recommend it any 
 FPS player. Its a solid World War 2 game, and the level in Omaha beach invasion was particularly 
 thrilling. The atmosphere throughout the game is extremely good. If I am not mistaken this is one 
 of the first World War 2 shooters, and it certainly set a very high standard for future games.
 
  
  This game is about 5 years old, so that means it will run quite well on most of the new computers, 
 even those with onboard display, so budget or casual gamers should find that to their liking.
 
  
  Dont waste time soldier, get on the battlefield! There is a war to win! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simpsons13
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 15, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  I am almost done with the game it is fun and challenging i love it so the game is great and i can't 
 wait to get the rest. The graphics were ok but it is up to par with its other 2002 counterparts. 
 I have yet to play on-line with my bad dial-up connection i don't feel like being the one everyone 
 says get out to. Some of the missions you will have seen before if you played Medal of Honor: frontline 
 before this but it is fine and i don't mind.
  
  I wish this game featured the ability to zoom in but again i don't mind. Also unless you can and 
 i just don't know i wish you could exchange your weapons for a different one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Trigga-
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 2, 2007 10:59 pm PT
Review:  When you think mob movies, you think Scorcese. When you think counter-terrorist espionage, you 
 think Tom Clancy. And when you think World War II you think Medal of Honor. Medal of Honor Allied 
 Assault is symbolic of First-Person WWII shooters.
  
  The game's single-player campaign leaves little to complain about. Only the most demanding gamers 
 could fathom significant disappointment after experiencing the game's 20 historically-significant 
 missions.
  
  You'll begin the single-player campaign in Algeria, in the back of a two-truck caravan with the 
 4 members of your squad en route to the coastal village of Arzew. Your caravan is stopped at a 
 German checkpoint and after the German officers become suspicious, your driver panics and shoots 
 one of the officers before being shot himself. You and your squad now have to make your way across 
 a clearing to the gates of Arzew on foot. Once at the gates, you and your squad will exchange heavy 
 fire with the German guard units stationed just inside the walls. There are a few explosive crates 
 around to be wary of, and depending on your difficulty setting the Germans will most likely take 
 cover behind buildings and other objects inside the walls, so make sure you've cleared the area 
 before you advance into the open streets. Similar firefights will ensue and after a brutal ambush 
 you will find the 4 members of your squad all dead. At this point it is up to you to rescue Major 
 Jack Grillo from German interrogation. Major Grillo will guide you through the rest of the mission. 
 With his help you will sabotage the Flak 88 canons, destroy tanks and munitions depots inside the 
 complex, and ultimately escape from Arzew and destroy more crucial objectives on the air strip 
 outside of Arzew during your vehicle-bound escape. After the first mission in Algeria, you'll spend 
 most of your time attending various, mostly unrelated missions throughout Europe - many taking 
 place in Norway and France. Apart from the D-Day landing, most of your missions will be done solo, 
 although you will receive temporary assistance from contacts in a few cases. The single player 
 campaign does not attempt to build any sort of long-term plot line. Instead, it focuses on creating 
 thrilling missions which each have their own storyline. Because the missions almost never go as 
 planned, they end up being drawn out into 3 or 4 sub-missions. As a result, completing just 1 mission 
 can be a very lengthy ordeal and is an effective way to allow players to become engulfed in each 
 individual storyline while still anxiously anticipating what the next, completely new mission will 
 hold in store for them. The campaign keeps players guessing, so between the anticipation and the 
 utter thrill of each brilliantly designed mission there is never a dull moment to be found.
  
  The game looks and sounds spectacular. The graphics are fairly crisp and leave little room 
 for criticism. The sounds are convincing for the most part. One sound in particular that raises 
 an eyebrow is the firing sound of the German sniper rifle, the scoped Kar98. The sound is a very 
 deep snap, and while it is not completely unrealistic it is by far the low-point of the game's 
 amazing sound effects.
  
  Medal of Honor's multiplayer mode is unparalleled in it's ability to provide replayable, fun, team-based 
 combat. The weapons are all well balanced and the maps are absolutely fantastic. The maps you will 
 play on all provide environments for each type of gun to excel in. The maps are large enough to 
 add the element of strategy and stealth to the multiplayer experience, which makes the game much 
 more interesting, but simple enough that it shouldn't take new players long to learn the maps and 
 their essential locations. Medal of Honor Allied Assault has a lot of replay value. The multiplayer 
 is almost endlessly enjoyable, and can easily keep you playing for months without feeling tired 
 or bored of the gameplay. Some of the single player missions are so fun, you'll find yourself wanting 
 to go back and play them again. Additionally, the game's multiple difficulty settings allow you 
 to keep challenging yourself until you've absolutely mastered all the difficulties. If you beat 
 the game on easy or normal difficulty, you can switch the difficulty to hard or very hard and expect 
 to have an entirely new game on your hands. The enemies are more aggressive, and show a significant 
 improvement in accuracy, stamina, and awareness. Beating the game on the highest difficulty will 
 easily occupy any gamer for months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I_Am_A_KING-
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 2, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  Im very thankful to all the ppl who gave this game a good review. The single player in this is 
 superb, and the multiplayer is Crazy!!!! If you beat the single player a million times, you should 
 try online!!! Its challenging and very fun!!!
  
  If you dont like this game, ur either a bum who lives on the street or you cant beat it so ur really 
 pissed!!!!
  
  The story line in this game is quite interesting, also the weapons are very authentic. The maps 
 in this game are fun, and OMAHA BEACH is CRAZY!!!!!!!!
  
  Also, the fact that you get to be a german officer and bash ppl with ur pistol is funny!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharpie125
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 22, 2006 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor. It's the old classic series itself, sadly overshadowed by its newer competing Call 
 of Duty and Brothers in Arms. Nobody compares the three equally anymore, due to its lack of good 
 games in recent times. But if you've had time to play all three equally, each has a different feeling. 
 Call of Duty is straight up run, gun, and cover. It's implemented the sights, making it feel just 
 a little more realistic. Brothers in Arms is the most different than the other two, with a complete 
 storyline, troop tactics, and etc. Now, people may think of MoH as CoD's older, outdated brother, 
 because it's just a plain run 'n gun shooter. This isn't the case. In many ways, Allied Assault 
 gives you an A+ 'adventure film', while Call of Duty may just feel like a satisfying shooter. Allied 
 Assault has no iron sights, it has no squad controls, it has no truly 'epic' moments (except for 
 the Omaha beach landing, which is overshadowed by the new) . But it does one thing right, and it 
 does it truly right. The entire game is completely fun. Think of Indiana Jones. Those movies are 
 thrilling to watch. Just bursting into a room full of Germans and unloading your MP40 on the lot 
 makes you feel like a movie hero. Right from the feel, to even the music (which I might add, the 
 score almost resembles John Williams' in that trilogy) . There's only so much I can say about it, 
 just the fact that it may just be the most fun. CoD might be the slickest, BiA might be the best, 
 but Allied Assault is just pure shoot 'em up fun. This game is what every new MoH should try to 
 go back to. The graphics may not be the best, but the gameplay and sound is certainly the best, 
 to me. Sound in these games are probably MoH's highest point. The Medal of Honor score has never 
 failed to amaze me. Allied Assault does no different. The weapon sounds might be the best in any 
 war game (not including authenticity) . Brothers in Arms has the most authentic sounds, but even 
 a little emphasis is good once in a while. The sound of the Garand in AA is loud, rapid and it 
 really distinguishes it from the rest of the weapons. In fact, in a multiplayer game, if there 
 is a battle taking place in the room just ahead of you, the sound effects are so good, you can 
 always tell which weapons your enemy is using. The Thompson is a thick, powerful staccato, the 
 BAR is a low, heavy boom. And the Springfield has the most satisfying crack you may ever hear. 
 It goes off with a terrific bang, and the sound feels like it echoes. These sounds all feel like 
 they were pulled from Saving Private Ryan. Even Call of Duty 2's sounds sound fake and underpowered 
 compared to these. If you really feel the urge to play a true classic, my vote goes towards Allied 
 Assault. Numerous people still play online, boosting its replay value, and many moments in the 
 single player are memorable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fernandoarias
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  You are not going to be sorry with this game, you will not lose time on this
  you will love this game until you beat it. this is one of the game people will get crazy with. 
 most of the missions were based on true events. The mission the day of the tiger was a very hard 
 one, but you will get the courage of passing it. you will not regret this. On the last mission, 
 you will love it, well not at first. but when you go far, you will go nuts and will need all your 
 statics you can, and you need all the weapons you can use. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlyrYaKA
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 13, 2006 8:12 am PT
Review:  Many games in this genre do stuff better than this, the graphics good, the gamelay is unoriginal, 
 the sounds are great but there have been better, scrits ok, ai's ok, but alied assault is more 
 than the sums of it's art and the best way to describe it is as the gta of fps. Yes it's been done 
 bigger, yes the shootings been vastly improved on, and the the hand to hand combat, but anyone 
 who says gta isn't the best deserves to have there eyes pulled out and shoved where the sun don't 
 shine. Same here, so lock, load and prepare to go nazi terminating, moh style
  
  p. s; the low scores the rusult of no funtastic factor 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_copycat
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 9, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  well in this game u can
  battle your way throught more than 30 levels in 6 exiting misions nd they really are great my personal 
 favourite is the d day lading mission its brillent to play but its but to play on the hard difficultly 
 cause then it gives u a challenge.
  also u can explore vast and great war enironmentswith buildings with holes and bunkers and many 
 more great hiding places brillent for snipers. u will fight ur way throught north africa, norway 
 into occupied france and even the heart of the war itself.
  there many way to play the game u could try a stealth approch to infiltrate german headquarters 
 or just get it done fast by just running about killing everthing u see. u get to drive a king tiger 
 tank a wee bit into the sniper mission were u have to get thought a town with a group of men while 
 it is full of germans
  the guns are grest i love the bar and the springfield sniper rife
  but if u have completed the game and want even more fun go online it just gets better but u dont 
 have to ciomplete it to go on the internet that just wat i done cause i wanted to know how the 
 game is before i got into the great fun if u havent got this u got get it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linmukai
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2006 2:29 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Allied Assault took the genre to a whole new level of immersion and fun when it 
 was new. It's still the same great game and if somehow you missed it when it came out you ought 
 to check it out. Unfortunately, I think the demo doesn't run in XP but the full game with patches 
 applied works just fine. I had no problems playing through the entire single player campaign on 
 an XP SP2 system and as of this writing, there are many playing it online 24/7 still, since it 
 is so good.
  
  The multiplayer is a blast. It's simple and straightforward enough but the maps are great, the 
 graphics and sound are good and the gameplay is just plain fun. This game just gets it all right 
 in so many ways. The weapons are fun and pack a good punch and sound great. I love the crack of 
 the sniper rifle and how it echoes. All the weapons have good authentic sound. The music in the 
 game is also very good and helps to set the mood depending on what is happening in the game.
  
  The missions are many and varied with plenty of action ranging from a lot of infantry combat 
 to driving a tank to even sneaking under cover several times to steal plans, send transmissions 
 or set explosives. The game ends with its final mission in a way that I found less than satisfying 
 though but this is a minor flaw all things considered. It just seemed to end rather abruptly once 
 it was over and I thought they could have done a little more in the way of finishing touches there.
 
  
  All in all though, I would highly recommend this game to anyone who enjoys shooters and especially 
 those with a WWII theme. If you missed it when it came out, you can still find it on Amazon. com 
 and elsewhere packaged with both of its expansions as the Medal of Honor Allied Assault Warchest. 
 I've not played the expansions yet but having just finished this excellent and very fun game at 
 last, I definately plan to play them both. I have also seen Medal of Honor recently in a jewel 
 case edition at various retailers so fortunately, it is still available to buy.
  
  If you are bothering to read this, I know you must be interested in the game. Do yourself a favor, 
 go out and get it right now. It's everything they say it is and then some. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: satorn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 12:42 am PT
Review:  
  Remember Raiders of the Lost Ark? If you can, try to imagine that Harrison Ford's Indiana Jones 
 wasn't a fancy professor or archeologist, but instead a special infantry soldier serving his army 
 during WWII. Now imagine a game surrounding his various adventures throughout wartime Europe -- 
 an exciting retelling of his missions, retaining that same cinematic feel.
  
  The first mission places you on a rescue mission with a squad of other Allied soldiers.
  That 
 description pretty much sums up Medal Of Honor: Allied Assault. Far more than your average shooter, 
 MoH: AA sucks you into its world, complete with more scripted scenes that you can possibly hope 
 to see in one trip through the game. Gamers looking for a "realistic" experience may find the action 
 a bit over-the-top, but like Raiders, it's such a fantastic ride that you'll likely find yourself 
 raving about it long after the credits roll.
  
  Basic Training
  
  Medal Of Honor: Allied Assault is the third in a series of WWII games published by EA Games. The 
 first two (Medal of Honor and MoH: Underground) were developed by Steven Spielberg's DreamWorks 
 Interactive for the Sony PlayStation, continuing the director's fascination with all things WWII. 
 For the series' first foray onto the PC, EA handed over development to 2015, a name gamers may 
 recognize from the excellent Wages of SiN mission pack a few years back.
  
  Like the first two games, Allied Assault is a fairly straightforward first-person shooter - you 
 play Lieutenant Mike Powell, an American soldier working for the Office of Strategic Services in 
 WWII Europe (OK, one mission is in North Africa) . The game is spread out over 6 distinct missions 
 (a total of 33 levels) , each taking place at a certain time and location starting in late 1942, 
 and ending in early 1945.
  
  Don't you wish you drove up in that tank? Actually, you did.
  The missions are fairly varied 
 - some will place you on search-and-rescue operations, some are hit-and-run, and some just require 
 you to escape with your life. One mission in Norway has you sneaking around disguised as a German 
 officer in order to sabotage a submarine; another has you in France stealing a King Tiger tank 
 and raising all sorts of hell with it. To its credit, the game never allows you to get bored for 
 too long; just as you're settling into one type of gameplay, MoH: AA throws something new at you.
 
  
  Small Consolation
  
  The game's console roots can be seen even before jumping into the gameand that's not necessarily 
 a good thing. The menu interface is laid out in the same graphical style as the PlayStation games; 
 unfortunately, having to navigate with a mouse instead of a gamepad turns what should be a simple 
 scroll through the game options into a side quest from Myst. You need to mouse around each screen 
 a few times to learn where all the hotspots are, and even then, you won't be sure you've found 
 everything. Thankfully, this is the absolute worst thing that can be said about Allied Assault, 
 and it has virtually no effect on gameplay.
  
  As in the PlayStation games, each mission is also introduced by a short briefing setting up your 
 objectives, presented in slideshow format. It may be a little low-tech compared to what we're used 
 to, but certainly in character with the time period. At one point, you'll even meet up with Manon, 
 the lead character from MoH: Underground, but that's pretty much all the crossover you'll find 
 in the game.
  
  Close Combat
  
  To do battle, you're given the usual assortment of weapons -- pistols, machineguns, rifles, grenades 
 and heavy artillery. All are based on real-life counterparts, most needing to be reloaded regularly. 
 You'll often find yourself relying on your Springfield sniper rifle (one series of levels requires 
 it almost exclusively) , with your machineguns being the most likely choice for closer combat. Unlike 
 most games, you won't start out with one weapon and end up with 15 by game's end - in fact, you'll 
 rarely carry more than 4 or 5 weapons during the course of any one mission. Once a mission is complete, 
 you'll start the next one with a fresh set.
  
  On the other hand, you'll have a variety of special items at your beck and call at different times 
 throughout the game. Most useful is the compass, displayed in the upper left of the screen. A small 
 arrow in the perimeter of the compass continually points you towards your next objective, and virtually 
 guarantees that you'll never find yourself wondering where you're supposed to be going. In some 
 missions you'll get binoculars and a radio for calling in air strikes, and other levels will require 
 you to find specialty items like a gas mask or ID papers to continue.
  
  Helping add some variety to the game's levels are a number of vehicles you get to control, or in 
 some cases, fight. One mission has you firing at planes from the back of a jeep, while another 
 has you commanding a tank and steamrolling through France. While there isn't a whole lot of flexibility 
 to these levels (you can't just hop in and out of vehicles as you choose) they usually come at 
 just the right moment, when you most need a break from the usual run-and-shoot.
  Considering the game is set in so many diverse locations across Europe, the enemies aren't a particularly 
 varied lot. Although there are a few exceptions (like the German shepherd) , it often feels like 
 a dozen soldiers and officers were cloned to create the bulk of the Axis troops. They're not particularly 
 bright, either - they'll usually run away from grenades, and sometimes they'll notice when a buddy 
 nearby gets shot, but there are lots of times where enemies will literally lay down and die for 
 you.
  
  What saves Allied Assault's combat and actually pushes it to an exceptional level, however, is 
 the level design, enemy placement and one nifty convention that drastically curtails your ability 
 to run around guns blazing. When you get shot, your character will jerk out of control for a moment; 
 once caught in a hail of gunfire, it's hard to recover. The normal run-and-gun tactics that work 
 for so many other shooters will have to be traded for a more methodical approach - if you run out 
 in the open at any point, you're likely going to end up dead meat. Even sniping is an exercise 
 in patience - just when you think you've got a shot lined up, you get hit and your shot misses 
 the mark by a mile. By the time you've got your next shot lined up, you're apt to be hit again 
 unless you've retreated to safe cover.
  
  This guy's in a hurry.
  Nowhere is this more apparent than the most dreaded enemy in the game (which isn't really an "enemy" 
 at all) : the watchtower, which appears in many enemy bases. If you happen to get caught in a tower 
 spotlight, odds are a guard manning a mounted machine gun will cut you to shreds soon after. The 
 same negative reinforcement can be said for many other locations in the game; if there's a foxhole 
 or a crate or something else to hide behind, you darned well better use it for cover or face the 
 consequences. The overall effect helps sell the notion that you're really behind enemy lines, and 
 need to progress carefully.
  
  (Thankfully, there aren't any end-bosses -- boring or otherwise -- in Allied Assault, a long-running 
 tradition of most first-person shooters that I'm only too happy to see going away.)
  
  
  The one thing that amazed just about everyone here at GameSpy HQ about Allied Assault is the amazing 
 amount of scripting that happens throughout the game. Right from the opening mission, you're fighting 
 alongside fellow Allied soldiers as a rescue mission turns bad. Even as soldiers fall alongside 
 you, the scripting continues right until the moment they're all wiped out. In later missions, 
 an SAS agent will lead you through an enemy camp; an enemy truck brings reinforcements as you reach 
 the top of a lighthouse; squad members scream and dive around you as you attempt to take a series 
 of bunkers; tanks roll in as you try to prevent a bridge from being blown upand then there's the 
 tour-de-force Omaha Beach mission.
  
  If for no other reason, Allied Assault is worth buying for this level alone. Basically a recreation 
 of the opening of Saving Private Ryan, it will be all you can do to get off the boat without losing 
 half your health. Just when you think you've stumbled on to another scripted scene of a medic tending 
 to a wounded soldier, he turns and heals you as well. I've played through this level at least 20 
 times, and still manage to find new and interesting things happening all over the place, from the 
 water to the beachhead.
  
  Medic!
  
  If you play through MoH: AA's missions over and over, you'll soon recognize where these events happen 
 and realize that there isn't much you can do to change them. The first time through, however, it 
 feels so real, so natural, it's amazing to think anyone could plan these sequences so well and 
 so successfully integrate them into the gameplay. It would have been nice if everything had been 
 tied up with a more satisfying ending (heck, any ending would have been better than none at all) , 
 but we're not complaining.
  
  One small bonus to the game's missions is the medal system, which rewards you both for completing 
 the game as well as achieving secret objectives in each of the game's six missions. We've actually 
 yet to uncover any of these objectives, but we're looking forward to going back and finding them.
 
  
  owering all this action is the Quake 3 engine, which arguably has never looked better (although 
 we seem to say that with each successive game that uses it) . The models are detailed and animated 
 nicely, and the game offers enough adjustable settings that anyone with a P600 / GeForce2 should 
 be able to get it running smoothly in both the game's indoor and outdoor settings. Rather than 
 listening to me drone on about the graphics, however, just take a look at the pictures on these 
 pages - they should give you a pretty good idea of the exceptional job 2015 has done with the visuals.
 
  
  It would be easy to mention Allied Assault's sound as an aside, but it too deserves far higher 
 praise than we can give in this space. A massive amount of the game's install space is dedicated 
 to sound, and you have the option of setting the quality settings, which makes a bigger difference 
 than you'd expect. I particularly liked the weapons sounds, especially the satisfying "chink" of 
 the Garand M1 it finished another ammo clip, and the sound of bullets clanking off the metal rails 
 in the Omaha Beach level simply has to be expereinced to be believed. The voiceovers add just the 
 right amount of emotion to the game's characters without getting cheesy, and the game's music, 
 while understated, does an equally fantastic job of setting a movie-like tone for the game without 
 getting too overbearing. All in all, it's hard to think of many PC games with better production 
 quality than Allied Assault.
  
  Fighting The Masses
  
  With one of the best single-player campaigns we've played in years, we hardly would have been surprised 
 if the multiplayer options weren't quite as polished. And while there's nothing particularly groundbreaking 
 in MoH: AA's multiplayer modes, there's still plenty of fun to be had. LAN and Internet play is 
 supported, and while there's no in-game Internet server browser included with the game, GameSpy 
 Arcade is included as a matchmaking service. It's a little annoying to have 4 movies start every 
 time you load up a multiplayer game, but you can at least skip past them quickly enough.
  
  
  There are eleven multiplayer maps that ship with Allied Assault: seven deathmatch, and four 
 team-based "objective" maps. All are based on levels from the single-player campaign, most running 
 on the medium to large side. Rather than give players the ability to run around with all their 
 weapons at once, you can only carry a pistol, grenades, and one "special" weapon at any particular 
 time, and that weapon will slow you down in varying degrees (depending on which one it is) . You 
 can drop your weapon in order to pick up another, and you can also change your "special" weapon 
 between spawns.
  
  The four team-based objective maps can best be described as a combination of many games already 
 being played on the Internet. With an "Axis-vs.-Allies" format, all of the maps have specific objectives 
 for each team to accomplish, such as destroying two cannons atop Omaha Beach or destroying a control 
 room at a V2 rocket base. There's a "last-man standing" mode (think Counter-Strike) where players 
 do not respawn after being killed, and an Assault mode, similar to that of Unreal Tournament or 
 Return to Castle Wolfenstein, where players attack in waves after waves in order to achieve their 
 objectives. We've only had a few days to dig into the multiplayer, but it's already become popular 
 here at the home office, and expect that to continue for some time to come.
  
  A War Won
  
  When I first started playing through my original preview copy of Allied Assault, I was so impressed 
 that I hooked it up to our big-screen and showed it off to the rest of the staff. Turns out I wasn't 
 alone in my excitement - the usually hard-to-impress GameSpy crew was just as amazed and excited 
 as the long lines of people who first got to see it at last year's E3.
  
  We've been waiting for years for developers to finally catch on to the concept of pacing in games; 
 to put themselves in the audience's shoes and understand how to constantly keep them engaged without 
 being repetitive. While other recent games like Halo have offered moments of brilliance, Medal 
 Of Honor: Allied Assault starts strong and never lets up. With a combination of great action and 
 cinematic presentation, it's already an early contender to be one of the best games of 2002.
  
  get the unlimited ammo trainer : 
  
  http://www. megaupload. com/? d=WNWB43TB
  
  thanks 
 for reading my review and i hope you will enjoy the game 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DREU66
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 21, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honor: Allied Assault tiene el m&eacute; rito de ser el primer gran juego de acci&oacute; n 
 en primera persona con una presentaci&oacute; n absolutamente cinem&aacute; tica. Un grand&iacute; simo 
 juego en todos los aspectos tanto gr&aacute; ficos, como jugables. En su momento fue absolutamente 
 inovador y marco una l&iacute; nea que luego siguieron otros como Call of Duty o Brothers in Arms.
 
  
  Este juego fue una aut&eacute; ntica experiencia, el desembarco en Normad&iacute; a silbando las 
 balas a tu alrededor y viendo caer acribillados a tus compa&ntilde; eros al m&aacute; s puro estilo 
 Salvar al soladado Ryan es una experiencia que te hace sentir el horror que tuvieron que sentir 
 los aliados el d&iacute; a D.
  
  If you like the FPS, if you want to live a inmersive experience of war this is your game. You can't 
 say that you have played the better FPS is you do&acute;'t have played Medal of Honor. Allied Assault. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mailbox2112
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 19, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  if you don't like this game, you must be the only 50 year old living with your mom, who's never 
 had a girlfriend, wait, you've never even talked to a girl!
  this is the base of all WW2 fps. it's buggy sometimes, but you just need to update it that's all. 
 But's pretty easy. If you like DOOM (1-3) , you'd like this. SO, Call of Duty ain't got CRAP ON THIS! 
 HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA! same thing with the expansion packs. HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA 
 AH HA HA HA HA AH HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA 
 HA HA HA HA HA AHA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lonelynight
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 19, 2006 6:33 am PT
Review:  The graphic aren't bad but they aren't great either. Starwars Jedi outcast also came out in 2002 
 and it uses the same engine as MoHAA but SWJO2 looks alot better than this game.
  The gameplay is nothing special.
  The thing that annoy me the most was that you can't crawl and 
 you can't look down the ironsight like Call of Duty.
  If you want a good WWII game try Call of Duty, CoD2 or Brothers in arms
  and I forgot to mention 
 that the Multiplayer sux because alot of people use hacks.
  The only part I enjoyed about the game was when you storm the beach of Normandy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elliot_
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 14, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  2002 after +/- 50 years of the great WW2... the EA pleasure us with this beautiful and great game...
 
  
  with great graphics, great sound and a very though one... this game is so awesome.... so addictive 
 so nice to play... that in 2002 you really think you are in WW2 really... lol
  
  hum graphics very nice lots of colors and very detailed with only one defect for 2002... the soldiers 
 are all twins all brothers... and we have some bugs too
  
  sound are really great... the shots the headshots: P the sea the plains the tanks we have it all..
 
  
  this game is really big and really though one... that Nazis... we want too kill then all
  
  but gameplay is very nice... nothing bad really
  
  so this is a great WW2 but its a very 
 nice FPS too...
  oh normandia you look so beautiful so realistic here... one of the greatest moments in the game 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 13, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  Before Allied Assault was released in 2002, the only shooters that focused on the Second World 
 War were Wolfenstein (the original and the Return) , its malformed cousin Mortyr, and two modest 
 offerings from ValuSoft. Even though at least one of those titles was a whole lot of fun, none 
 of them so much as attempted a realistic portrayal of a mud-caked, shell-shocked day in the life 
 of the average G. I. Enter Medal of Honors first brilliant entry, which was practically a video 
 game adaptation of Spielbergs astonishing Saving Private Ryan. The zombies and supersoldiers were 
 gone, and in their place were the daunting odds and wily Nazis that elevated the quality of WWII 
 shooters for years to come.
  
  Not all of the levels in AA were grandiose set pieces couched in cooperative squad tactics. In 
 fact, several sequences were spent in the one man versus an army mode represented in nearly every 
 preceding FPS title. Both mission types -- as well as the brief stealth endeavors  provided an 
 excellent range of pacing that ensured that the player never quite knew what to expect around the 
 next corner even though the enemies remained constant; although the Nazis might arrive in a tank 
 or camp out behind an eerily accurate sniper scope, the game is pretty much one infantry battle 
 after another. The action never got old, however, due to a healthy mixture of infiltration, loud 
 and fun rail sections with mounted guns, and even an all-too-brief but thoroughly entertaining 
 arcade segment viewed down the turret gun of a King Tiger tank.
  
  Although Allied Assaults character animation and heavily scripted events were a bit jagged and 
 simplistic compared to more recent event movie-style shooters, the game was still incredibly entertaining. 
 Each levels layout was very linear, but most areas contained enough open spaces or intersecting 
 passageways to produce a different outcome for every battle. One notable exception was the terrible 
 Snipers Last Stand level and its outsized degree of difficulty; even though Germanys long-range 
 gunners were renowned for their accuracy in real life, the effect of their skills on AAs gameplay 
 was horribly detrimental. The repetition of quickloading after every one-shot kill due to a single 
 wrong move did not qualify as variety, but as tedium.
  
  Allied Assault is credited with kicking off a number of cinematic titles that translate the adrenaline 
 and heightened emotions of war into an exciting and compelling game. Using reasonably lifelike 
 compatriots and events that really happened, AA sufficiently honors those who found fighting and 
 bleeding through WWII to be anything but fun by extending the entertainment factor beyond mere 
 key hunts and gib counts. Although there is plenty of history to passively absorb about the places, 
 events, and even the technology of mid-twentieth century Europe during one of its most infamously 
 frenetic periods, the action is varied and intense enough to interest just about anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rangeraa
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 1, 2006 5:24 am PT
Review:  I can still remember going to the local EB the day this game came out soo pumped to get it and 
 I was not disappointed. For its time the games scope was HUGE (dday landings anyone?) and while 
 a recent retreading of the single player levels shows that only a couple really hold up due to 
 the heavy scripting of the game, multiplayer is still a joy to this day. The graphics, while not 
 so great anymore, are still servicable... the sound is still amazing... the gameplay is quick to 
 pick up and get into and almost all the original maps are well designed (except snowy park ARGH 
 i HATE that map!) . So overall, if anyone is looking for an easy to play shooter, get this game.. while 
 the single player may not have the wow-factor it once had, the multiplayer is still very fun for 
 the casual gamer, and much better than any other medal of honor game out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacash3492
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 30, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  2002 was a great year for the Medal of Honor series. First releasing Medal of Honor: Allied Assault 
 then Medal of Honor: Frontline. Which was better? I have to give Allied Assault the W on this one. 
 It just feels superb in my mind and in the mind of Erik Wolpaw, apparently. It has many, many great 
 things about it that many FPSs don't have.
  
  Your weapons, a BIG thing you need to remember about this game. You always have to know what weapons 
 you are using at every specific moment. Like when you have to blow up a tank, obviously, grab a 
 Panzerschrek rocket launcher. Take out a whole fleet of soldiers, use a sub-machine gun. It can 
 be simple, but don't blow it.
  
  The graphics in the game are pretty lame for current time. In 2002, they are decent. But graphics 
 aren't important. The soldiers and people (same) are kind of messy in graphics. But the weapons 
 are better because they aren't as difficult to make.
  
  The story in the game is quite enjoyable. It is based on WWII and you take the role of a soldier 
 who is in a whole pool of very important mission objectives. You will be rescuing important people 
 in the force of just civilians. You will go from freeing people to stealing documents from your 
 Nazi enemies. You are pretty much on your own in the majority of the missions so it can get hard 
 depemdig either on the mission or difficulty settings set.
  
  Your enemies are quite easy. The smallest amount of Nazis that can bring you down is probably 7 
 or 8 at once. It also depends on the weapon you have equipped. You will also have gaurd dogs and 
 tanks on you. It is just a wide variety.
  
  Multiplayer is probably a huge thing in this game. See, that is why I prefer this instead of Frontline. 
 There is always a huge amount of servers available either Internet or GameSpy Arcade. It is a great 
 way to shows off your MOHAA skills.
  
  All in all, this is one of my favorite all time FPSs ever. Please recommend if you are a WWII shooter 
 fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ResonanceTheory
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 28, 2006 9:52 pm PT
Review:  First off -- I think that anyone who is reviewing this game (which was released in 2002 -- that's four 
 years ago, folks, and that's a long time in technology terms) and gives it a really low score is 
 being totally unfair. I suppose I'm somewhat biased because MoHAA was the first PC game I ever 
 played and turned me off of consoles forever. However, there are many shortcomings to the game, 
 especially when you compare it to other, more recent games of the same genre. MoHAA was my first 
 WWII shooter, but ever since then, I haven't been able to get enough (who can?) . I returned to 
 this game a couple of weeks ago after it had been collecting dust on my shelf for a looooooong 
 time. After playing a lot of new games, both WWII-themed and others, I had a bit of a different 
 take on the game, but I still hold respect for it. First of all, don't expect it to be anywhere 
 as good as CoD. The graphics, the gameplay, and the AI can't hold a candle to it. Another thing 
 that will piss CoD2 players off is the inability to look down the sight, unless you've got a scoped 
 rifle in your hands (though I'm pretty sure it was like that in CoD, too) . There's not as many 
 vehicles. You don't learn much about the weaponry, as you do from prolonged gameplay in other WWII 
 FPSs. All in all, the game is not very thorough. And the fact that you're basically a one-man-army 
 facing off against a bajillion Germans doesn't help the realism factor much either. However, to 
 MoHAA's defense, it is a good game, especially for its time. The one man army gameplay, though 
 not believable, is appealing. And as annoying and unresponsive as the AI is, it's fun target practice. 
 For the experienced gamer who wants a challenge, this isn't going to be the game. But for the WWII 
 lover, the newbie who hasn't played much, or someone who is just willing to enjoy an old game for 
 what it's worth, then go ahead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CarlsonAJ
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 20, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  It's not a BAD game; it's just not a 9.0 classic for the ages. The levels are too mixed up. Some 
 are patient shooters, some are frantic button mashing. and some are plain suicide. Your squad mates 
 are either invulnerable, or cursed with artificial stupidity - as tankers pretend they are infantrymen. 
 Or squaddies wander up to set explosives just as they go off - hey, "Fire in the hole!!" anyone?? 
 And the watchtowers, that can see better AFTER the lights are shot out?? And speaking of electricity, 
 even my non-gamer wife sees the stupidity in shutting off the power, THEN sending a radio message. 
 For a busy guy, who just wants to shoot up stuff, I had to flip on godmode a little too often. 
 It just never really felt like WW2, The Good War, or that I was a Ranger out ahead of the lines. 
 It felt more like a bad version of Dirty Dozen (the movie, not Deadly Dozen the game - it was better 
 than that, I'll grant) . 
  
  Bottom line: Freedom Fighters was more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vod_Crack
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 15, 2006 3:42 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honor has been around for over half of a decade now. The series started off on the original 
 PlayStation and it was a hit. No other war shooters were that fun at the time, definitely for the 
 PlayStation. After the dull sequel known as Medal of Honor Underground, Medal of Honor moved to 
 a different system and Medal of Honor Allied Assault was that game. The game exploded and it may 
 didn't look as good as Return to Castle Wolfenstein, it still had great visuals and great action 
 sequences.
  
  In Medal of Honor Allied Assault, you play as Lieutenant Powell who is just a random soldier who 
 basically destroys the whole German army. Just like every other Medal of Honor hero. There isn't 
 much more to the plot that that. There are six missions in the game and at the very start of each, 
 you get shown a video which tells you what to do. Objectives range from destroying Anti-Artillery 
 guns to disabling trucks in a motorpool. The missions do a good job of making each look and feel 
 different. You will be moving through places like North Africa, Germany and so on.
  
  The gameplay might feel slightly dated these days compared to other WWII shooters like Brothers 
 in Arms and Call of Duty. Your accuracy doesn't mess up on you if you use weapons fully automatic. 
 The only time when your aim gets a bit wonky is when you get shot at and when that happens, your 
 head tilts back a bit and that kind be annoying. As side from that, there are times where you need 
 to be relatively careful or you are going to die simply because you are outnumbered or there is 
 MG42 machine guns around. You health can go down quickly but you can recover it just by finding 
 health packs and canteens lying around the place. A lot of German soldiers will drop a canteen 
 after they die so there won't be a big hunt for health in the game. This helps the game out in 
 someways but it also makes the game sort of easy because of this and the whole quick saving all 
 of the time, which you can do in any shooter.
  Enough of that stuff, Medal of Honor Allied Assault is really a fun action game that really keeps 
 your pulse going and it is a whole load of fun. All of the objectives are easy to find so you are 
 never lost, even if the levels are quite linear anyway. There is a constant change of pace all 
 of the time. Early on, you will be sneaking around and the next level you will be on the back of 
 a jeep, shooting at Germans with your Machine Gun. It is just the variety that will keep you coming 
 back for more and you will enjoy every minute of it.
  The AI is pretty bad actually. When the Nazis know that you are there, they are pretty good but 
 a lot of the time, they just have a lack of awareness. There was a section with a German working 
 on a truck. I shot him in the back of the torso, he just sort of popped up and he just continued 
 working. It is problems like this that bring the overall game and it is shame that it excists, 
 The AI on the other hand, are good at taking cover, moving and throwing grenades. They aren't perfect, 
 though, and they never work as a group. But never mind, the enemy AI is still pretty good and don't 
 let the lack of awareness put you off. You will also be with some other Allied soldiers and these 
 guys fight well too and they hit their targets well.
  
  There is also a pretty robust multiplayer mode where you play a different range of modes such as 
 freeze tag, deathmatch, capture the flag and so on. Most of the modes are pretty similar to what 
 you are used to from other shooters. The action is really fast paced and you get to pick your team 
 and weapon, like in Call of Duty. The modes that are more like Counter-Strike are more fun because 
 it makes the action more intense but the other modes are still plenty of fun. Many servers are 
 completely empty but you will always a server with a pretty large number of players and you can 
 join that. Many servers also have mods on like infinite ammo and jumping sets you up really high. 
 These servers are cool too. The maps are excellent with plenty of interesting places to explore. 
 Some of the maps will be familar to you if you played through the single-player first liek the 
 way I did.
  
  The graphics in Medal of Honor Allied Assault don't look that great anymore and pretty much any 
 PC can run this at a good framerate, The biggest problem with the visuals is that the character 
 models look slightly blocky and the faces look terrible. Everything else in the game looks fine, 
 granted that you set your expectations correctly. Remember, this game did come out in Early 2002. 
 That is over four years ago.
  
  The sound is still actually very good. Gun effects sound good and the music is still just fantastic. 
 The voice-acting is bad but there isn; t too much of it anyway.
  
  After 10 hours, you should be done with the single-player mode. It isn't too long but it is fun 
 ride while it lasts. I highly recommend this game to anybody that likes WWII. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jakov_the_Great
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 11, 2006 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Mmmmhmmm gotta love the MOH series. My personal favorite is MOHAA. It got everything just right, 
 from the intensity of D-Day, to the capturing of the Tiger tank in France. It just clicks. Even 
 though the graphics weren't all that fancy, and the gun models weren't exact, they truly focused 
 their efforts on the essence of what it was like to be a G. I. in WWII. Just superb. They hit it 
 spot on. Even the refrences to Saving Private Ryan were phenomenal, just an all around geat game. 
 So our hats off to you 2015 and EA, you have graced us with a work of art. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zHELLDOG
Rating: 1.3
Date: Aug 9, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  DO NOT BUY THIS GAME. 
  
  Many people across the U. S. are fooled into thinking this is how ww2 happened. Don't be one of 
 them. Face the facts. NO SINGLE MAN WON WW2!!! I give pokeman silver a better rating than this 
 craptastic game, and I don't even like pokeman! EA just cant make a good, fun, realistic game. 
 Neither can Activision. The ONLY company to accomplish that is GEARBOX SOFTWARE. Their Brothers 
 in Arms franchise mows down all competition in its path. Everyone that thinks this game is better 
 than Brothers in Arms, just shut up. ALL MEDAL OF HONOR GAMES SUCK. One more thing, YOU CANNOT 
 CARRY 5 WEAPONS AT ONCE! 
  
  Here is a well thought out list of ww2 franchises, according to rank.
  
  1. Brothers in Arms
 
  2. Call of Duty
  
  I only put 2 there because anything below that should not be on the friggin market. 
  SCREW THIS 
 GAME. 
  zHELLDOG has spoken!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asbjoern_Skoedt
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 5, 2006 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Medal Of Honor Allied Assault is one of the best games I've played continuing to now. It's memorable 
 and consists of exciting and involving levels. The gameplay is shifting, which makes it non-repetitive 
 and durable. I've completed it at least 5 times and then there's the expansions.
  The guns are easily wielded to your cause, which gives you the possibility of enjoying the game 
 and ambience instead of sitting at the edge of your chair constantly. MoHAA isn't difficult to 
 play but it all, as always, depends on your selected difficulty level.
  The setting is around Europe and northern Africa in different areas and compounds. From fields 
 to bunkers. The landscape and surroundings are immersive, genuine and sensible at times. This is 
 mostly what makes the WW2 genre good for me. The surroundings are natural and true as opposite 
 to Unreal Tournament for example.
  The musical score to the Medal Of Honor series is truely a masterpiece resembling the sound of 
 WW2's war music, but still with a good melody as counter balance. It all helps create a captivating 
 experience for you.
  
  Kind regards Absjrn 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yarcofin
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 18, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  Graphics (12.5%) - 10
  Controls (15%) - 8
  Variety (25%) - 10
  Replay (25%) - 8
  Sound (7.5%) - 10
  Depth (15%) - 9
  
  OVERALL - 9.1
  
  Graphics - 10
  MOH: AA features 
 excellent graphics. The characters, weapons, vehicles, and items all look excellent.
  
  Controls - 8
  The game features the same controls as most shooters. Controlling the AI on your 
 side when you have them is tough though. They tend to like getting themselves killed, and sometimes 
 the game is rigged so they will die no matter what you do.
  
  Variety - 10
  There are many different Allied and Axis weapons you get to use throughout the game. There are 
 many elaborate and beautiful levels that make you want to live in the area, rather than blow the 
 crap out of it and kill everyone in the neighbourhood. You also get to man the turret in the back 
 of a jeep and even drive tanks in some levels.
  
  Replay - 8 
  There are a few levels that are particularly awesome to play over and over again. Then again, there 
 are also some levels that, once you finally get through them, you will never want to play again. 
 Once you beat the game, you can go back and try to get all the medals for extra heroic work, if 
 you're into that kind of thing.
  
  Sound - 10 
  The soldier's voices (both English and German) are very well done. Explosions and weapons sound 
 amazingly realistic. Planes buzzing overhead scare the crap out of you. This part of the game is 
 so realistic that it will really immerse you into the battle and make you feel like you are there.
 
  
  Depth - 9
  MOH: AA features much of the war and actual locals, from Africa and France deep into Germany.
 
  
  OVERALL - 9.1
  I didn't play MOH: AA online very much, but from what I did play it was pretty good. The single 
 player alone in this game is amazing though. The best WWII game I have ever played or owned.... 
 oh wait... it's the only one. Most parts of the game are balanced perfectly so that you make it 
 through each level the first time, but just barely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shuiken_Blade
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 14, 2006 9:41 pm PT
Review:  The first thing I would like to get to before the review is that this game can be found at an awesome 
 price. I bought this game in a bundle with Black & White, Freedom Fighters, and LOTR Return of 
 the King for $19.99 at Circuit City.
  
  The gameplay is your normal run-and-gun shooter style. Like COD but it seems better. Lots of weapons. 
 Great level design. Pretty good multiplayer, but i didnt play it that much.
  
  The graphics deserve the 7 I gave it only because they are outdated. I don't mind these graphics 
 but somepeople might. 
  
  Like I said earlier, you can't beat the value for this game.
  
  In conclusion: if you like WWII games and Shooters (or WWII shooters, rofl) then it can't hurt 
 to pick this game up. Truly a classic game. GET IT!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabi67
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 13, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Medal of honor is a must for shooter fans. It's one of the best shooters i ever played. You're a 
 soldier that goes to war and has to pass different missions. The missions are great, i can say that 
 "Snipers last stand" is the best mission i ever encountered in a shooter.
  
  The visuals are great to. If you have seen "Saving private Ryan" or the mini series "Band of brothers" 
 then you'll have an idea of what i'm talking about. The places you are deployed in are great to, contributing 
 to the success of the game. The action parts are very intense and very breath taking.
  
  You'll be handed a great deal of weapons so thats another thing that will bring "fun" to the game. The 
 missions aren't very hard, and a good thing is that there aren't boss monsters, a thing that makes 
 the story line more believable. So this game has a good story line, nice visuals, great action scenes, a 
 nice soundtrack, a bunch of guns and a nice ending. I would say it has all the right ingredients 
 to be considered not only a good game but a great one. And thats how i would categorise this game: GREAT!
 
  
  It has a good multi player but not as great as the one that Return to castle Wolfenstein has. Actually, now 
 that i mentioned that game, you could say that Medal of honor is like Return to castle Wolfenstein 
 but without the boss monsters, witch in my opinion is even better, making the story more believable.
 
  
  A good recipe, great ingredients, well cocked, and out came a tasty shooter. Taste it! You won't regret 
 it. You will want more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UmaSama
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 9, 2006 9:09 pm PT
Review:  I just finished this outstanding wich I own almost since when it was released to the market, but 
 somehow never really got to play, anyhow it really amazed me the quality of this game even after 
 four years since it's released.
  Graphically it's awesome, for example in the mission of the Omaha beach dissembark if you look 
 at the other soldiers on the boat some of them will look back at you and you'll be able to notice 
 the scare expressions on their faces, I mean truthfully I can't remember any other game from 2002 
 in wich you were able to notice NPC's facial expressions.
  But the most remarkable feature of this game are not the great graphics, instead what really got 
 me into the game was the sound, oh boy what a good sound production this game had, it all blends 
 together perfectly, the inmersive soundtrack, the guns sounds, the soldiers shouts, and the explosions.
 
  The AI is really good, especially considering that is four years old.
  There were only two backdowns that I could point about this magnificent game, the controls in one 
 hand, the thing really annoyed me while playing, was not being able to lean, I mean that would've 
 save a lot of loadings, and the second backdown was that the game was too straighforward, you get 
 an objective, then you follow the direction on your compass, and then you'll get to continue to 
 the next objective, making MOHAA a much easier game to play.
  But again what MOHAA does it does it great, it has a lot of packed action, wich combined with the 
 good graphics and the inmersive sound really gets you inside of the games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rokkuman09
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 30, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is pretty fun think like Rambo in WII or somthing. So ya it's unrealistic and everything 
 but its still pretty fun. You go to many place on various missons and there are tons of weapons. 
 Also the game is pretty long for a FPS. The game also has a multiplayer component that is needless 
 to say good (like 4,000 somthing at least servers at all times) . Strangely considering how unrealitic 
 the game is (you can take tons of bullets and take out tons of nazis at at time) it does something 
 horstically accurate that more accurate WII FPS have messed up on (such as COD or COD2) . It reloads 
 the M1 Garand correctly that is in many WII games you can only reload the M1 Garand after you use 
 the entire clip but this is actually a myth you can reload without using the entire clip and MOHAA 
 gets this right at least.
  
  Graphics:
  Very Outdated. The graphics look just plain bad now. You can actually run this game with all the 
 settings up except the resoulution (I tested it at 1024 x 768) and force on Anti Aliasing and Ansiotropic 
 filtering with a ATI RADEON X300 SE and STILL get a decent framerate! Ya there that bad. But if 
 you can get past the graphics the gameplay is still fun!
  
  Sound:
  The sound is just decent. Some of the weapons sound unrealistic compared to there real life counterparts 
 though. Also the game has some voice acting in it and it's generally pretty good.
  
  Value:
  The game has a pretty good value! It's really cheap now (you can actually buy the original 
 and the two expansions in MOHAA warchest for $20.00) ! It has a pretty long caimpaign (as I said 
 earlier compared to other FPSs) and it has really fun multiplayer!
  
  the final score is 7.5 good but have some mercy on it the graphics brought it down alot because 
 its an old game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Black_Fist
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 27, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  This game will take you on a ride from the first gun battle in a North African town to the explosive 
 final at a German mustard gas facility. Its gameplay is a well balanced mix of high intensity close 
 quarters fighting and long range sniping, with some stealth and infiltration elements added in 
 to mix things up all set against a dramatic World War II background. The graphics make you feel 
 like you are fighting during WWII and the sound is some of the best ever made for a shooter. German 
 soldiers yell for help in great sounding accents and the American troopers are very well acted. 
 The music is terrific and really helps set the mood. The missions are varied and feature some very 
 memorable scenes like storming Omaha beach during the D-day landings or sneaking through a German 
 U-boat pen in Norway. The AI does a good job of acting like German or American soldiers but is 
 heavily scripted, so don't expect them to throw many surprises at you. The multiplayer is quick 
 and brutal and can be quite fun. Though the game does not include computer controlled opponents 
 to flesh out your multiplayer matches, you can download mods that add AI fighters to multiplayer 
 games. No shooter buff can go through life and not play this game.
  
  Pros: Great intense World War II setting, excellent sound and music, great gameplay, fun multiplayer, 
 interesting and memorable missions.
  
  Cons: Single player could have been longer, not much replay value, some missions can be frustrating 
 at first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Limonadi
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 18, 2006 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Awesome game, the story is great, very great. The graphics also improved alot, and have been done 
 very very well for the time of the release of this game. Alot of people would just say "yay another 
 world war 2 first person shooter" but this game did set the way that first person shooters are 
 played today. The sound has been done very greatly, and the animation is crazy good. The story 
 improved, and this game has made this series very very different (in a good way) . I'd recommend 
 it for anyone looking for that fps that they wanted, it's most likely fairly cheap, if you can 
 find it.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bristowlfc
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 2, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is ledgendary! i cant stop playing it expecially when am playing it online! i play on 
 it everyday its so addictive i get withdrawral symptoms when i am not playing it! in my opinion 
 it is the best first person shooter todate even better than the halo games! i cant wait till they 
 make a medal of honour game for the psp thats the only thing that could make this game the best 
 if it was portable! they should make more an more expansion packs for this game as this game is 
 huge onlineand the levels are jus so different an entertaining! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Horus92
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 28, 2006 5:53 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome! 
  
  Medal of Honor Allied Assault puts you in the role of an Ally in middle of the World War II. Your 
 mission varies throughout the game, from surviving in D-Day, to blowing up a submarine in a German 
 base. Throughout the game, you will unlock levels (which are historical locations of the war) and 
 medals!
  
  Gameplay. It rocks. You have the typical 1st person shooting screen, with the chance to change 
 your weapon, which range from a rocket launcher, to a gas bomb. Probably the best thing of the 
 gameplay, that differentiates Medal of Honor Allied Assault from other first person shooting games, 
 is that its more of an adventure game. Your mission is not to kill every single guy in the base, 
 but to try to fulfill an objective.
  
  Graphics is amazing, considering how old this game is (not that old, but still...) The weapons, 
 scenario, locations and enemies are depicted fantastically. 
  
  Sound is good as well. There are musics that will make you remember this game forever, as well 
 s to make your gameplaying the best.
  
  Probably what I liked best of the games is the "cutscenes". At the beginning of some levels, (for 
 example, Omaha Beach (probably the best level in the game) you start in a boat, without possible 
 movement but with free look. You can see how your allied boats suddenly blow up, or as your allied 
 partner starts playing with his gun.
  
  This game features a solid multiplayer as well.
  
  The Medal of Honor Series are a leap forward in gaming world-wide, and will surely be remembered 
 as the the best WWII games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UUUMMM184
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 27, 2006 1:43 pm PT
Review:  MOHAA is an absolutely amazing game! I love the sound it's perfect! The Medal of Honor series is 
 very well known for it's perfect sound but this was brilliant!!! It's extremely realistic and I 
 love the Omaha beach level-it's my favorite!
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is just superb! I really like being in a squad and attacking the Nazis from 
 every direction or just mowing them down with a machine gun solo! The gameplay is great!
  
  Graphics: It just looks sooo real! I thought I was actually in the battle if I looked close at 
 the computer screen! The detail is stunning, especially on the soldiers!
  
  Sound: Now I know I don't pay much attention to detail but the sound just blew me away!!! All the 
 CLEAR sounds I could hear on the Ohama beach level was simply worth all my attention! The gunfire, 
 warcries and just about everything sounds like your actually in the battlefield!!!
  
  Value: This game leaves you playing for ever! The campaign is REALLY LONG!!! But it never get's 
 boring at all! In fact I played the campaign again (because it was sooo FUN!!!) Not only that but 
 there's MULTIPLAYER!!! You'll be playing this game for ages!!!
  
  Tilt: This game is a must-have!!! Buy it if you're a first person shooter, WW2 or even just a game 
 fan in general! You won't be disappointed!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jajabinks123
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 26, 2006 11:10 pm PT
Review:  How should i start out i grew up on medal of honor allied assualt, it was my first multiplayer 
 game and i am still loyal to it, sure they have came out with better games, vivid graphics sound 
 AI and so on but i will always have i special 
  place for medal of honor allied assualt dubbed mohaa, i would suggest that you buy it, it only 
 cost's about ten dollars at your local wal-mart and its great multiplayer and single player experience, 
 if you get into the multiplayer i would suggest the BRP clan server the ip is 67.19.186.125 and 
 their wepsite is www. mohaabrp. com their server is low ping and their clan is very friendly and
 
  fair. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neighdawg
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 26, 2006 2:36 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honor: Allied Assault is a games that shows certain times through World War II, and tries 
 to make you feel like your strugling in the war too.
  
  When I first played this game, I though it was a fast paced game, with lots of battle intense and 
 action. I think that it was a great game. I got hold of it after playing the demo tons of times. 
 it has a few unrealistic bits in it, but i reckon that after finnishing the game, you aren't really 
 likely to come back for it.
  The best mission, in my opinion, is the Omaha Beach mission, were you take part in the extremely 
 well made level. 
  Some bits in the game are annoyingly hard, and force you to save, load, save, load, and keep coming 
 back from the point you had 15 health.
  
  Graphics-Well animated and good to give you shocks to make you think your in the actual World War 
 II.
  Sound- Very well done, making you cover you ears from the Dramatic war gun shots to the talks between 
 your comrades.
  Gameplay-very intense, but suffers from frustrating hard bits.
  Overall-Good for a World War II shooter, but coud've been a bit better .
  
  Ne1GhD@wg 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 2, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor: Allied Assault is an immersive and satisfying gaming experience. If we excuse Return 
 to Castle Wolfenstein, this is the game that started the WWII FPS blitz on the PC. It is the benchmark 
 for this genre of games and it still holds its head high today.
  
  Medal of Honor never pretends to be 'realistic'. Instead, it is an immersive and action packed 
 game that takes place at a number or key battles and campaigns of World War II, which to me still 
 remains one of the most intriguing eras of our history. This is not a progressive story, rather 
 it is six individual campaigns with the only common factor being your role as Private Baker. It 
 is for all intents and purposes, and standard run and gun shooter. But it does that very well indeed.
 
  
  This is another game that was built of the Quake 3 engine, and its looks quite good. Not as good 
 as others using the same engine, but it still creates a believable and at times spectacular environment 
 for the action to take place. There are multiple environments, including wide open spaces and 'up 
 close' houses and tunnels and when it hits it stride, there is a lot happening on the screen. The 
 soldiers and weapons / vehicles are all easy on the eye, with the only complaint being a couple 
 of clipping issues. The structures are very well created and presented, whether it be houses in 
 a small village, an outpost, an installation, a bunker or an underground tunnel system - the game 
 presents these very realistically indeed. Storming Omaha Beach looks like it came straight of the 
 reel of 'Saving Private Ryan' - and that is a compliment. Apparently the patches fixed quite a 
 few problems up, so make sure you patch the game before playing it.
  
  The sound is quite superb. Even if you don't like classical music, the score is fantastic, and 
 suits the game and its cinema styled atmosphere. The in game sounds of fire, explosions are spot 
 on and the dialogue and scripting is very effective. Play this with headphones and you are almost 
 there in the field.
  
  Medal of Honor delivers with its gameplay. It is an intense and action packed game that has very 
 few 'slow' or frustrating moments. The action starts from the beginning, as you put into a serious 
 skirmish from the back of your truck and then into a European village and just when you think it's 
 over, it starts up again with an ambush and a number of enemies charging through the door. And 
 so it goes on over a six campaigns, although it does get to feel a bit the same towards the end, 
 where can almost pick when are where the enemies are going to appear.
  
  The enemy AI is solid, if not exceptional. Sometimes they do run out of a position single file, 
 making them sitting ducks. But at times they take cover and counter attack pretty well. On the 
 default level, they are a competitive foe ensuring that this is no walk in the park.
  
  While most the missions are straightforward assault based missions requiring you to complete objectives, 
 there are some variations. There is a fairly tricking stealth mission through a village later on 
 in the game, and at times you need to protect a position or a person, with you failing the mission 
 should that be compromised. You also go 'undercover' at times, but in the end you just blast your 
 way out of any problems. The action is intense but well paced, you do stop to catch your breath 
 on occasions, and that is probably needed. There are generally enough save points for your not 
 to have to keep reaching for the quicksave key, except for the hardest missions, so you can just 
 concentrate on the game.
  
  Some of the missions are just superb. Omaha Beach is excellent, the first mission that involves 
 freeing the captured prisoner and then sabotaging equipment, before an excellent shootout in a 
 lighthouse was worth the price of the game alone. Clearing houses / villages is always an adrenalin 
 charged affair and driving the Tiger Tank through the French Villages and causing serious damaging 
 (whether you are required to or not) is a real hoot. You do get to use some serious artillery along 
 the way, and a good variety of hand-held weapons as well. It's only Sniper Town that is overly 
 frustrating. It's almost impossible to find these guys and they are deadly accurate. Expect to 
 be stuck there for a while. But overall, there is a variety of original scenarios and objectives 
 to keep this game enjoyable.
  
  Even though this came out in January 2002, I did not play it until April 2006. It still seemed 
 pretty fresh and appealing to me. It took me twelve or so hours to complete, and with the exception 
 of the overly difficult Sniper Town (and the fact it took me about 20 attempts to complete the 
 closing scene) , the game was enjoyable and never felt labored. It's a satisfying dose of action 
 and is recommended to anyone who hasn't played it.
  
  I purchased Medal of Honor and the two expansions for $AUD22 second hand. So I basically paid $AUD8 
 or $AUD9 for the this. That is excellent value for money. I have not tried multiplayer, as it isn't 
 really my thing, but any review will tell you that it was good for its day.
  
  Even with the debate going on that WWII First Person Shooters have worn out their welcome, it is 
 always worth going back to where it all began. Four years on, Medal of Honor : Allied Assault has 
 aged gracefully. It is an intense and enjoyable ride through the battle theatre of WWII and provides 
 an immersive and satisfying gaming experience. If you want to see where it all started for the 
 PC, this is probably it. 
  
  Enjoy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: themc_7
Rating: 8
Date: May 4, 2006 8:49 am PT
Review:  This is a fairly fun game, offering missions in 4 locations of the war. Throughout the game you 
 will travel to Africa, Norway, the European frontline, and more. There are a few things that I 
 found to be somewhat disappointing. The game says that it offers over 20 missions. when really 
 there are 4 long levels in each of the 4 locations. The mission never really stops you just keep 
 getting objectives, then all of a sudden the level is complete and you travel somewhere else. The 
 game offers good gameplay, and thrill, but there are a few things that really seem to put a damper 
 on the game. For example: You will shoot an enemy, and will stumble, seeing that he is not dead, 
 you pump him with 3 or more shoots, but when an enemy is stumbling they can't take any damage. 
 So you can shoot enemies 5+ times and they don't die. Also enemies are always really accurate which 
 is realisticI suppose, but at times it's crazy. a guy willbe standing like half way across the map 
 with an MP 40 (a very inaccurate gun) and he will plug you and take away alot of your health. These 
 things can be annoying, but overall the better parts of the game outweigh the bad stuff. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtrmgamer206
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 23, 2006 4:44 pm PT
Review:  In Medal of Honor Allied Assault, you play as an elite soldier who is sent to fight with the Rangers, 
 the OSS, and many other divisions in areas that include North Africa, Normandy, and Berlin. This 
 game is no Brothers in Arms, it is more of an action game where you kind of take on the whole German 
 Army by yourself.
  
  Graphically impressive for when it came out, but character models could use some work. The sound 
 is amazing, artillary in the distance, machine gun bullets hitting water and sand, a Panzer exploding 
 from a well fired bazooka round. Gameplay is mainly fast paced. Germans will come at you from around 
 a corner, while more may pin you down with MGs (however, most of the game is completely scripted, 
 so enemies will always start out in the same place and attack you the same way) .
  
  I have to say, the Omaha Beach level (considering that I hadn't seen Saving Private Ryan or Band 
 of Brothers yet) was pretty intense. Some areas got my adrenaline moving, because I knew what was 
 going to happen, and I didn't like it. The stealth was handled pretty well.
  
  For strategists who are in love with Full Spectrum Warrior or Brothers in Arms, this game is mainly 
 shoot 'em up. Action fans, WWII buffs, or fans of the series will definently enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_janus_ex
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 20, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  los juegos de primera persona no son mi especialidad pero este juego cambia mis espectativas de 
 juego... los modos de combate que ofrece son buenos aun que prodria dar mas.. como todo... medalla 
 de honor ser basa en un contexto grafico que meten al jugador en el ambiente y las sonidos de diaparo 
 y accion convierten a medalla de honor en una de las mejores versiones hasta el momenmto, el modo 
 multiplayer es bueno pero lo que mas caracteriso a este juego fueron sus escenarios de combate.
 
  
  Recomindo medalla de honor para iniciarse en el cuento de los juegos en primera persona es sencillo 
 de jugar y su niveles y miciones son de buena dificultad.
  
  saludes y buena suerte tratlo es bueno 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajorT1943
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 19, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  In any historical-first person shooter, you must have gameplay that is historically authentic. 
 In many ways you may disagree, which has informed me in most of my reviews. The game is based during 
 the European Theater of Operations during WWII, experiencing combat from Operation Torch (November 
 8th-15th, 1942) to Ardennes Offensive or The Battle of the Bulge (December 16th, 1944- January 
 25th, 1945) . Since you're an OSS operative, you're a commissioned officer ranked 1st Lieutenant 
 named Mike Powell; 1st Platoon CO, A Co. XO, 2nd Ranger Battalion, 116th Infantry Regiment, 29th 
 Infantry Division, U. S Army, U. S Military. Being commissioned within the 29th Infantry Division, 
 you experience combat during Operation Overlord, D-day, June 6th, 1944 (Dog-Green Sector, Charlie 
 Sector, D-1 Exit Vierville, Omaha Beach, Atlantic Wall, Cotentin Peninsula, Normandy Campaign) . 
 This could be translated into the second scene of "Saving Private Ryan" for all of you slackers 
 out there. Impressively like the authentic Omaha Beach, the game features a beachhead (Omaha Beach) 
 that measures about a mile in length. During the advancement, make sure you advance to a covering 
 position like a "Belgian Gate" because of the suppressive-fire from the MG-42 light-machineguns. 
 Enlisted personnel, NCO, and officer rank insigia, overcoat, tunics, service uniforms, field jackets, 
 helmets, and service caps are historically accurate except Waffen-SS officers' collar insignia. 
 Weapons are historically accurate, for example the Gewehr43 7.92mm rifle. 
  Graphics within this game are quite revolutionary, and appreciated. Operations and battles or maps 
 are heavily detailed for a game that could be considered primitive, being in stores since January 
 2002. To receive a more adequate reception of graphics, enhance the resolution of the game, texture 
 quality, and color. If you have a windows 95/98, I don't advise on improving these characterics. 
 Most likely it will decrease the computer's speed. The sound is outstanding, to actually experience 
 simulated combat you should turn your speakers all-the-way up (If your parents don't mind) . The 
 only thing is beware of the percussion of a large caliber artillery shell (Ex: 75-155 mm) , including 
 60 and 81mm mortars. It would be fairly tactical and strategic to go to your local department-store 
 and buy it for only for an estimated price of $9.99. Battalion, dismissed (enjoy the legendary 
 "MOH: Allied Assault") ! 
  -Major T 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fecalproduction
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 14, 2006 6:21 am PT
Review:  Allied Assault
  Lets face it, MOH is one of the best, besides doom, fps franchises ever. From their first titles 
 for the PS1 (I loved underground) to the GBA (infiltrator is excellent) to the PC and PS3, these 
 titles always have excellent first-person action, super music, good graphics and lots of enemies 
 to shoot up. For some reason Ive just always enjoyed these games more than the Call of Duty ones. 
 Im wondering when a PSP title for MOH is going to come out. Theres just something satisfying 
 about defeating enemies from past wars and being historically immersed in the game action. Of course 
 my favorites are the ones where you shoot up Nazis, but shooting up others is almost as fun. So 
 here goes:
  Gameplay: good wsad and mouse controls... when you land at normandy that is a very difficult level... be 
 prepared to fail several times.
  Graphics: wow... really top notch
  Sound: Super beautiful orchestarted music and intense combat sounds
  Value: pretty expensive
 
  Reviewer's tilt: very high cuz i likes the FPS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big-Head
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 9, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  Despite it being an old game and the graphics not being so hot, Medal of Honor allied assault is 
 one of my favorite games. The game is fun to play, but multi-player is much better. I find playing 
 the actual game gets quite boring after a while. You never get bored of online play, I have about 
 330 hours played online. The difficulties are accurate, I suggest once you get use to the controls 
 to switch to normal, easy isn't challenging what so ever. So if your interested in some good online 
 play this would be a good game to buy, you won't be disappointed. Plus the game is now probably 
 only like ten bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdhnightwolf
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 3, 2006 3:19 pm PT
Review:  This game was absolutley awsome in the days of 2004 and still is in my opinion. The graphics are 
 all done very well considering it's competition at the time. The game's single player missions 
 are fun for a while but mutliplayer is where this game shines.
  
  I've spent hours upon hours playing this game online with others. All the classic 1942 weapons 
 are there and they feel and shoot like they should. Grenades feel right when you toss them and 
 the lean feature is one of the best additions to the game.
  
  The levels are all done very well with no mazes and confusing twists and turns. The levels aren't 
 too big and they really do a good job of capturing the feeling of being in bombed out towns during 
 that timeframe.
  
  It's your basic 1942 FPS with enough addiction to keep you engaged for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbo0827
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 29, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor: Allied Assualt is the greatest Medal of Honor game out right now. The graphics 
 are not as amazing as they once were but the six missions of killing Nazis is brilliant. I really 
 enjoyed the D-Day mission because it proved to be the most of a challenge and was also very fun. 
 This game is very difficult on some missions but others are just great. This is what the one person 
 against an army is about. Personally, I think Call of Duty is a lot better than this simply because 
 Call of Duty is more of the war experience. But this is the first great World War II game and it 
 is still a good game although some may not think it's value is high. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death5ter
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 28, 2006 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Its unfair to judge MOHAA upon the graphics that most FPS genre possess this days, as for my rig, 
 i try to maxed it all out in order to satisfy my visual taste and it is a good start. I started 
 playing it since last year and i think that during the time of its released i think its the best 
 graphics on pc on FPS Genre has to offer. Sounds, the repetative sounds of most of your friendly 
 AI disturbs me most, i like the cinematic intro.
  
  Well the Gameplay, represents what MOHAA really are, the Lone Wolf Style, the gameplay really pushes 
 me on to finish this game, at hard (difficult) mode, this game took me a year to finish. Its like 
 a James Bond type. haha..
  
  Overall MOHAA is a great game. I think most FPS hardcore played it. And for me its a game that 
 will come up with many series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soad_kickass
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 24, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  You can walk, run, jump, shoot, switch weapons, lean and more. What more could you ask for in a 
 FPS? The control layout is simple, although in certain situations it may become confusing. However, 
 you can change the layout to whatever you wish. There are also many strategies to can try. Are 
 you more of the stealthy type or do you run into battle without any fears? If realism is what you're 
 looking for, you're not going to find it in this game. When you hit a helmet with your sniper rifle, 
 rather than slicing through the helmet, the bullet merely takes it off. This game is not really 
 fast-paced, it's more of a tactical shooter. Overall, though, the gameplay is superb and alone 
 makes Allied Assault a great game. 
  
  You partake in the 101st Ranger Battalion as Lt. Mike Powell. Most of the missions you will play 
 alone, but a few portions of the game will be played with your fellow allies. A great deal of the 
 missions are conducted in France, but throughout the game you will also visit Germany, North Africa, 
 and Norway. 
  
  The character animations are delightful to watch and the lighting and firing textures are magnificent. 
 The weapons are very detailed and the environment is just excruciating to look at. The game uses 
 the Quake III engine. The only drawback here is that you may experience some slowdown, but it doesn't 
 get to the point where you'll want to stop playing. 
  
  Everything about this category is excellent. From the German cries to the sound of your weapons, 
 you're not going to want to miss a single second. AA truly has the best sound I have ever heard 
 in a game. The game's music cannot be forgotten, though. The music may not be as good as Frontline's, 
 but it definitely backs up this category well if anyone is having doubts. 
  
  If you have narrowband than cut my score in half. Not only will you feel the need to enjoy the 
 SP several times, but you will feel the ''need'' to master every weapon in MP. I myself have already 
 done this. Your first time hitting a moving target with the sniper rifle will be a memorable one, 
 mine was. I've been playing this game almost every day for the past 5 months and it's time won't 
 end soon. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: adijan
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 23, 2006 3:55 pm PT
Review:  This game brings you new missions, new foes, new places and new weapons to use when you are fighting 
 or battleing the enemy.
  
  THe game is in first person so it is a FPS and also the game does have some of the histories memorable 
 battles.
  
  The graphics are quite impressive and do bring some great quality sounds and great characters that 
 will be used dduring the frontier.
  
  The sound is well made and well added to the game because of its exquisite , weapon, voice sounds.
 
  
  Gameplay is pretty easy to use and is prettyf un , especialy when you shoot the enemy in the face. 
 It does give the player some hard times when you foreget the controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigbighat
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 19, 2006 6:46 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Allied Assault is one of the most best historical first person shooters ever. Its 
 great just because EA games did a good job on making a game action packed and fun all the way through. 
 Sometimes you may go undercover as a German officer sometimes you will plan an assault like D-day 
 for example. They made a remake of WWII very well. They're plenty of levels to fight through 32 
 to be exact with secrets and trying to earn medals all the way through you can command a tiger 
 tank they're will be rain affects, and plenty of weapons, from sniping to machine guns. The sound 
 is good to especially from game that is made from 2002. The multi-player is fun to with lots of 
 serevrs to play at with lots of modes. The game will keep you playing for about a year. The graphics 
 are great to for a game that is from 2002 (you can raise the graphics if you have a new PC) . The 
 difficulty is almost perfect, and it is THE best Medal of Honor game in the series. Please buy 
 this game if you are into MoH. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leelee_rocks
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 16, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  To me this is the best Medal of Honor game there is, the first games can't compare to the graphics 
 quality of this game and the later ones are simply not as fun.
  
  This was the first fps i ever got for the pc and to be honest i really enjoyed it, i only hated 
 the fact that no matter how hard you tried on the first level, it didn't let you keep your squad 
 or certain other things had to happen just to keep the story going as it should. I especially loved 
 playing the omaha beach mission, running up one of the beaches of normandy on june 6 1944 with 
 bullets whhizzing all around you, you are forced to find cover in the chaos of everything happening 
 around you. It's just like the computer game version of the first 20 mins or so of 'saving private 
 ryan' and a very good version too. Now-a-days though, i don't buy these kind of games because they 
 are basically the same thing with new missions and maybe better graphics often more confusing or 
 too unrealistic (no matter how much 'rag doll' features they put in them) but medal of honour allied 
 assault is quite a fun game and if you are going to buy any in the series i recommend this one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2006 11:39 pm PT
Review:  The Medal of Honor is one ofthe best WW II FPS's in its age of glory. This shooters made an ambitious 
 and fantastic performance in historic FPS genre. 
  
  Allied assault is the start of MOH in PC and the best start for the journey through the though, 
 cold and non-mercy WW II. you are the soldier of allied side who will fight against the nazi troops 
 in whole around europe.
  
  Arsenal of the player an immpresive, lots of weapons and granades, bazukas... Use which one is 
 appropriate. 
  Graphic in game just soo good that provide the best tense of europe scene in WW ii time.... and 
 of course followed by fantastic high tense music makes your game more enjoyable..
  Each level in this game are not connected to other ones.... but each level has a its spesific storyline 
 and even Half-Life "cutscene" tech. which is makes you feel more close to the game rather than 
 whatching the real cutscenes.
  
  Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CWD-Brazil
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 10, 2006 8:08 am PT
Review:  Medal Of Honor is a game that people cant put down.
  They were all dragged, as well as myself, into its massive multiplayer
  setting, with over Two-Thousand 
 players online daily!
  There is never a shortage of servers to enter and shoot up.
  As well as massive multiplayer community they have an more massive MOD community. These communities 
 produce hundreds of new maps and hundreds of weapons/Character skins. THis i way the graphics never 
 get old.
  The mods range from Crosshair  Player Campaigns. Anything you can 
 find to make youre game more enjoyable.
  
  I strongly recommend this game to people with lower end systems that cannot play the new games 
 such as COD2 or BF2. I also recommend this to people with good computers because its a s*** load 
 of fun!
  
  Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chapin08
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 9, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor: Allied assault is a WWII action shooter that contains everything you would expect 
 from the Medal of Honor series. The games setting takes you to war-torn Europe as you play as Lt. 
 Powell and your mission is to obviously free Nazi-controlled Europe. 
  
  The game play consists of eliminating any Nazi soldier you see using authentic WWII weaponry. There 
 is lots of mission variety to keep this game from becoming repetitive. You'll do things such as 
 going undercover as a Nazi soldier to get in a Nazi submarine and destroy it, to riding in a powerful 
 tank to escape a Nazi controlled town. You are sometimes given a few teammates in some levels of 
 the game to help you out in fighting off the Nazis and while your teammates don't have the best 
 AI, their far from the worst, and they do a good job of covering your back and taking care of themselves. 
 The enemy AI on the other hand, is really good and once an enemy spots you he will behave realistically 
 and will also take cover behind anything he can and will work together with another enemy soldier 
 to take you out. However, sometimes the enemy seems to have a sixth sense since an enemy will take 
 cover behind a wall or door and will sometimes only peak its gun out as if blind shooting, the 
 problem is that while the enemy is not looking at you, it still knows where your standing and will 
 hit you with direct hits as if he knows where you are even though he is not looking at you. Still, 
 these situations don't happen frequently and they don't effect the game play in a mayor way.
  
  The sound is one of the highlights of this game. The sound effects in this game are fantastic 
 and each weapon in the game sounds really authentic and powerful (especially the BAR) . The sounds 
 effects show off their full potential in the D-Day mission when mortars and gunfire are coming 
 right at you while at the same time you hear other soldiers creaming and yelling as you try to 
 survive and get off the beach alive, and the sound effects in this game make the experience both 
 terrifying and memorable. The graphics are also very well done. Character models show lots of detail 
 and the environments have great looking textures in them. The frame rate almost never slows down 
 and keeps a steady speed even when there is a lot of action going on.
  
  On the whole, Medal of Honor: Allied Assault is a great game that any action fan will enjoy. The 
 combination of great graphics, enjoyable game play, and excellent sound design make Medal of Honor: 
 Allied Assault a game that no action-game fanatic should miss. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulessjay
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 6, 2006 6:00 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Allied Assault is an excellent game. I would recommend this game to anyone who enjoys 
 play WWII games. The game play is amazing. They really do a good job getting you involved in each 
 level. A few of them can be challenging (Omaha Beach comes to mind as well as snipers last stand) 
 but that is what makes the game fun. The sound is excellent especially if you have surround sound. 
 It makes you feel like you are right in the middle of all of it. Even though the graphics are dates, 
 it does not take way from the game at all. Considering you can find this game for only $10.00, 
 I would say that it is a great buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SYdoggXxX
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  I honestly wasn't expecting much when i first picked up this game. After all, i got in a bundle 
 of 4 games, so it wasn't like i was too eager to get my hands on it. Add to that the fact that 
 i had just finished playing Call of Duty, which i consider the best WWII fps ever (although now 
 I consider both games the standard bearers of the WWII genre) , and i was legitimately afraid that 
 this game wasn't going to be able to deliver or live up to the standards of COD. Well, i'm writing 
 this review about an hour after finishing the single player campaign, and any doubts i had about 
 this game were stunningly crushed. Despite being a year older, this game is every bit as good (and 
 in some aspects even better) than Call of Duty; i honestly loved it from beginning to end.
  
  To say that this game magnificently recreates the intensity of WWII is a huge understatement; 
 from the very first level all the way to the ending, this game is like a rollercoaster of adrenaline, 
 suspense, tension, action and pretty much everything else you'd want in a FPS. While the gameplay 
 itself may not be entirely realistic (i really doubt one single soldier could've killed that many 
 nazis by himself) , the WWII atmosphere is perfectly recreated. Words can't describe what it's like 
 to go through the Omaha Beach level (as gamespot said, probably the most well executed set piece 
 in shooter history) ; the stealth missions are superb, and the final level is non stop shooting 
 from beginning to end.
  
  The graphics also stand out; while the characters look kind of bland, the environments are eerily 
 realistic. Not to mention the fact that there are lots of destructible elements in the game (walls, 
 boxes, trees, etc.) and you've got yourself a recipe for visual exhilaration.
  
  The sound and music of this game is beautiful; the soundtracks on some levels can add to the tension, 
 yet nothing sounds more spectacular than the showers of fire, yelling and crying from your allies 
 during the Omaha Beach level (you can see that i really enjoyed that level, it's THAT good) . Add 
 to everything the fact that the germans actually speak german, and it's no trouble at all immersing 
 yourself into the game.
  
  While the single player campaign steals the show in my view, there's also lots of fun to be had 
 with the multiplayer component. You'll still find lots of people playing the game today, and while 
 it's not the best multiplayer in the world, it's pretty damn good and adds plenty of value to the 
 game.
  
  Medal of Honor: Allied Assault blew away my expectations and i honestly feel privileged to have 
 been able to experience this game. Along with Call of Duty, they both stand as the elite members 
 of the WWII fps scene. Between it's high tempo action, tense stealth sections, and amazing set 
 pieces, Medal of Honor Allied Assault is one of the most memorable shooters ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Levoth
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 3, 2006 3:23 pm PT
Review:  I just loved Medal of Honor Allied Assault. This is one of the most realistic games I've ever played. 
 Medal of Honor is a great serie of games that I've been playing all my life , and this game is 
 one of the most impressive I've ever seen. 
  
  Graphics :
  It's hard to describe how impressive this game is in its graphics. Everything is so detailed and 
 the design work very well with the atmosphere of the game. The characters are all very well designed 
 and everyone of them have realistic facial expressions. All the dialogs are much more fun because 
 of this, the graphics of this game just rock everything. All shades, shadows and lightinning effects 
 are perfect. 
  
  Gameplay :
  The gameplay is the same. Nothing changed from the other games, but for the ones who never played 
 a Medal of Honor game. Everything is just very easy , all the moviments around many openned scenarios. 
 And everything answers very fast. Wonderfull.
  
  Sound :
  The Sound is perfect , although there aren't any subtitles , the characters speaks very clearly. 
 All sound effects are so realistic as always. The sound of the bullets , the sound of the other 
 players and characters steps in a grass ground or walking through a very noise floor. All the things 
 are great.
  
  Oh well , I just love FPS and RPG games , and this game has much to offer to FPS fans. You will 
 feel inside the Second World War. Recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckypool04
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 22, 2006 10:24 pm PT
Review:  MASTERPIECE!!!
  
  When you think of a ww2 games you think of something that you can have fun with enjoy and feel 
 a bit proud, but this game is not just a good game its an amazing game!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I got this 
 game for my b day 2 years ago and all iv got to say is its one of the most gripping games ill prob 
 ever play! I cant tell you how much I love this game, but I can tell you that if you buy this 
 game, be prepared for it because it will shock you how gripping a real Great game is! 
  
  The single player mission is one of the Best, it has 6 perfect missions. But what this whole game 
 is about is its multiplayer it will blow your mind it is a total masterpiece 
  If I ever saw one it has some of the best servers IV ever seen like the Tool Clan -- the Medic 
 hellfire server! And some great others but the level design for the levels are spot on great, from 
 sniper long range levs to all around close combat levs.
  
  Well if ever there was a FPS or any game for that matter to get I would tell you to get this one 
 because it will have u playing for hours upon hours upon hours! (Yes it really is that good) well 
 have fun and see you on the Battle field. 
  
  Oh and I somehow lost my data on my game so i had to buy the game again to get it back, this no 
 joke multiplayer is that much fun!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jawbreaker13o
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 25, 2006 6:28 pm PT
Review:  This Game is the most entertaining game i have ever played. I have never been addicted to a game 
 for so long. The multiplayer keeps you coming back for more. Even though this game came out in 
 2002 this game is still in the TOP 10 Multiplayer games being played. This Game is the BEST world 
 War 2 game ever made. This game may have a cheap price now but its well worth it. I would recommend 
 this game to anyone out there. It is honestly the BEST EVER! MOHAA ROCKS and will NEVER die as 
 long as the MOH: AA community continues to survive!!!!! Trust me and get this game AS SOON AS POSSIBLE! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FoxDevereaux
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 20, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks to the extreme. Never have I played a game that was so intense and fulfilling. 
 The graphics were not exactly perfect in some areas, but the gameplay, sound effects, and all around 
 plot made up for it in an incredible way. No matter how many times you play the game, it keeps 
 on getting better, and better, and better every single time you do. You are thrown into history 
 to be a Ranger during World War Two, so it kind of gives you that patriotic feeling of "I'm doing 
 my part for the world" type of thing. Definitely highly recommended for hours of fun and enjoyment! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L33tBudDha
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 20, 2006 7:36 am PT
Review:  I'm currently playing WWE Smackdown vs. Raw 2006 but have not played it enough to review it properly 
 so I am digging through my bag of games from yesteryear to praise or shoot down.
  
  The good:
  
  1) Visuals: MOHAA brought a visually beautiful game to the gaming community. The 
 environments are very well done with backgrounds that really give you the feel of being behind 
 enemy lines. The weapons looked great and the character models were very well done. You will be 
 exposed to a nice variety of gaming environments from underground cement bunkers, open area terrain 
 in both winter and non-winter climates, inside warehouses, all of which are very well done.
  
  2) Sound: The audio in this game is outstanding. From the crunching of the snow beneath your 
 feet, water splashing, and the sounds of the guns. In fact the rifle clips popping off will remain 
 in your head long after play this game. The background sounds add to the game in a very positive 
 way making you feel like there's a lot more around you and that you are a very small person trying 
 to sneak through enemy territory.
  
  3) Challenge: The challenge in the single player is well done. The game offers the standard easy, 
 medium, hard type settings and even has the ability to input cheat codes. Though I do not use cheat 
 codes all the time I do prefer having the option to use them especially for QA purposes.
  
  4) Single player squads: You do get to team up in this game from time to time with in game characters 
 and squads. The AI is decent and they don't overdue it. They blend in just enough to keep the game 
 fresh.
  
  5) AI: At the time I am writing this the gaming world has seen AI reach new heights through FarCry 
 and F. E. A. R. but at the time of MOHAA's release it was a very well done game in this regard. The 
 AI is not stunning but it is good and a positive.
  
  6) Multiplayer: MOHAA multiplayer maps are still played today and in large numbers. The online 
 game was one of the best I have ever played and I have played a great deal of them. The game offered 
 the ability to mod the game so you can find all sorts of servers from realistic combat with head 
 shots and vital areas causing more damage, weapon restrictions, and many others. The maps are incredible 
 to game on in a multiplayer format. They offer plenty of tight corners and spaces, open areas, 
 cover, windows, doors, buildings, you name it. And the match types are fun.
  
  7) Performance: Game runs great on most systems of its time. Installation was smooth. Single player 
 and multiplayer both ran very well.
  
  The bad:
  
  1) Weapon variety: I'd have liked to have seen a few more weapons in this game. The ones they had 
 were outstanding but a few more choices would have been nice. 
  
  2) Character classes: I think the game at the time of this release would have been better if it 
 tried to define roles in the game a little more than just a pure shooter. Perhaps BF2 has spoiled 
 us all and looking back on fps isn't exactly fair but the idea was there 2-4 years ago and I think 
 MOHAA should have took a try at it.
  
  The ugly:
  
  1) Cheats: Some considerable cheats/hacks in the multiplayer were possible when the game first 
 came out. Those were corrected.
  
  Overall: MOHAA is quite possibly the best FPS ever made when you consider its place in history. 
 If you have never played it pay the $9.99 it might cost you to get it and try the game. You will 
 enjoy it even after playing more recent heavy hitters like BF2, FarCry, Call of Duty II, F. E. A. R. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: advracer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 14, 2006 7:50 am PT
Review:  Much of what I would say has already been said about this game. Having said that, a game of this 
 calibur deserves to be mentioned again if given the opportunity. 
  
  EA Games began a trend with epic style wwII shooters with Medal of Honor Allied Assault. A rivoting 
 journey through one of the bloodiest campaigns in European warfare. 
  
  Character development and a story driven plot makes this game one of the best thus far. Realistic 
 era driven weapons and uniforms among other things like construction really make the game believable.
 
  
  I recommend you pick up one of the newer combo packs and play and play and play. I have personally 
 played the entire campaign four or five times. One just can't get enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: janoma
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 12, 2006 2:14 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honor is an absolute welcome guest on the PC platform. I first heard of it by the time 
 I was studying World Wars at school, when a classmate told me about his passion about history of 
 wars -- especially WWII.
  
  He knew every single pistol, machine gun, tank or plane used in that war. I must recognize that 
 I wasn't very excited with his speech, and soon we found ourselves speaking about tea, which we 
 both like very much.
  
  Suddenly the conversation went back to WWII, although this time it was about some game called "Medal 
 of Honor", which I hadn't heard about -- I didn't even have a PSOne. He told me he wanted to go 
 home early to play the game, and I understood there was something special with it.
  
  When I finally played it a couple of months later (on PC) , I felt that this was the game I still 
 had to play to have played "everything around". The graphics were great and the music was even 
 greater. The storyline was ok for me, but I know that some people felt disappointed when they didn't 
 find a movie-like sequence of connected events.
  
  Nevertheless, the missions are good enough for you to understand their specific importance and 
 context, so there's no need of continuity between them. Moreover, a single history could be sadly 
 boring to play.
  
  As you get deeper into the game, the difficulty level is harder, but not impossible. For example, 
 one of the last stages occur on snow, where the visibility is affected by the fog.
  
  Finally, it should be more realistic if the snipers weren't so ridiculously easy to use, for their 
 sight is static and doesn't seem affected by the pulse, nerves or natural movements of the soldier. 
 The same with the aim of normal weapons like shotguns or machine guns: if a soldier is running 
 and surrounded by enemies, it's crazy to imagine he could have the same accuracy in his shots as 
 he has when he's standing up.
  
  That doesn't make me off, especially because other features --the music, in particular -- compensate 
 that small detail in the gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maegnas
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Besides just the amazing remake of a battle we have all heard and been fascinated in, this game 
 had great gameplay, and was hours of entertainment. The graphics for the day were really good and 
 i thought it was a very well rounded game. I would recommend this game to anyone considering a 
 great WW II game. The multiplayer is more than amazing in itself. I could play for hours on end, 
 and have :) , just networking with a couple of guys, not to mention online! Its a great game and 
 i think everyone should at least give it some thought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 18, 2006 8:20 am PT
Review:  In the context of European World War II combat, you play the role of Lieutenant Mike Powell, an 
 experienced American Army Ranger working for the Office of Strategic Services. Because you find 
 out little background information about Powell and he never says a word, there is little reason 
 for players to identify in any meaningful way with this character aside from admiration for his 
 physical prowess. As you progress through the many scenarios taking place between 1942 and 1945, 
 you earn a variety of campaign and career medals; hence, the title of the game, named for the highest 
 award bestowed by the United States on members of its armed forces. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwulith
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 18, 2006 1:29 am PT
Review:  WW 2 shooters have been around for over a decade. Even Wolfenstein 3D, the first WW 2 shooter ever 
 made was a WW 2 game. Still, with this Medal of honor allied assault is one of the better WW 2 
 shooters that your likely to play. The action is tense and also frustrating, but it's about as 
 fast paced and mind blowing as WW 2 shooters get. There are some issues with this game though, 
 namely the fact that you hardly ever have anyone with you and there are some dead on, insanely 
 hard parts that I almost gave up on because of a few parts.
  
  Medal of honor allied assault drops you in the shoes of a US soldier sent out for duty. You face 
 multiple WW 2 moments, such as the landing at Omaha Beach and even destroying Hitler's secret labratory. 
 Although the story isn't that great and somewhat typical of a shooter, the rest of the game is 
 great.
  
  For starters, Medal of honor allied assault is very fast paced. You hardly ever have time to stop 
 and take a break and almost always have German soldiers coming your way. Although the weaponry 
 isn't all that, with standard weapons like MP 40, Thomson, M1 Garand, and so on. It's still a great 
 amount of weaponry, but compared to titles like Call of duty two, that packs in some huge amount, 
 with wepaonry on all sides, even British and Russian.
  
  Past this though, Medal of honor allied assault does have another glaring error. Your practically 
 on a one man army. Although not that big of a deal, and at times you almost feel more like a spy 
 than a soldier, it would be nice to have lots of troops with youl, since this only happens one 
 or two times in the game. You do have a few contacts that you run into, such as a Captain who helps 
 you get out of Africa early on in the game, but that's about it, this is pretty much the reason 
 why Medal of honor has always been dubbed: The one man army series.
  
  This might be a good thing or a bad thing, but the difficulty is frustrating. You have some parts 
 that rely on saving every few seconds, such as when your sniping all of these guards in a French 
 town or getting through Omaha Beach. It's more hard than it should be, and even fighting the Nazi's 
 can be tough. The AI isn't all that, but you don't have a lot of health packs in the game, thus 
 making for a title that your going to save every five minutes.
  
  The graphics are very good. Textures are superb and environments are well detailed, but the character 
 models aren't all that and the framerate can drop at times. Most of your objectives will be very 
 standard, having to just run from point A to point B, but from time to time you have to do things 
 such as: kill/rescue certain people, deliver a tiger tank, and even cutting plugs on trucks so 
 that German soldiers can't escape.
  
  Medal of honor allied assault isn't terribly long, only about 12 hours, but that's still pretty 
 decent for shooters. Still, despite the difficulty and one man army fights throughout this game, 
 it's a great WW 2 shooters that you can hope to play, especially with all of the WW 2 shooters 
 out there, it's no small feat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimbo-b
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 17, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Allied Assault starts out with the d-day landing, and almost never slows down. Mission after mission, 
 I was glued to the PC, trying to take down Tiger tanks, searching for German Snipers in ruins, 
 and franticly fighting off assault after assualt. All the guns feel and act like the real thing, 
 thanks to the fine work of EA. While the graphics are a little lacking, they still peform well. 
 As in most Medal of Honor games, scripted events will make you feel as if you're really in battle. 
 Most mission objectives are varied, and accomplishing them is very satisfying. The level design, 
 while linear, is very good. All in all, Allied Assualt gives PC owners a frantic and intense experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragon247uk
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 14, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honour Allied Assault is by far the best war game ever. It includes a fantastic storyline 
 including the gruesome d-day. When you insert the disk into the drive you instantly find yourself 
 in an addictive world full of war bombs and bullets. 
  
  Gameplay: I have rated gameplay as 10. This is because the storyline is unlike anything you have 
 ever seen before. You have to killand avoid streams of bullets just to survive. And medpacks are 
 scarce in the game. 
  
  Graphics: I have rated the graphics 7 because there are alot of improvements that could be made 
 to the graphics. 2D trees and eyeballs that move independant of themselves littter the countryside 
 that spoils the game only slightly. 
  
  Sound: I have rated sound 8 as when you first play the game the sound is all fuzzy and tinny. However, 
 a few alterations on the sound options screen will soon improve the gameplay and sound.
  
  Value: I have rated value as 10 because the game is worth every penny and the money required to 
 buy the game won't go amiss.
  
  Reviewers Tilt: Personally i think each and every aspect of Allied Assault is what makes it unique. 
 Even the 2D trees. The plot is gripping to the very end and each kill makes you feel more satisfied 
 about the game as a whole. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PuffstaJones
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 8, 2006 4:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is not bad, although it's not good either. Some missions are extremely fun, and others 
 excessively boring. You often find yourself restarting the same parts as you die often, but it's 
 not that annoying since there is no loading when you restart from your last save point.
  
  First of all, yes this is a WWII game, but wow is it ever not warlike. It's more of a run n' gun 
 than a war game.
  
  The graphics in the game are decent, not fantastic. Good sound however. The game is pretty long, 
 which is nice. Although some of the levels are extremely boring and you just want them to be over. 
 On the other hand a few of the levels are extremely fun. 
  
  If you are a fan of sniping this game might be for you as you almost always have a sniper rifle 
 with you. Other people seem to like this game, I would download the demo before buying the game 
 to see if you like it, but keep in mind the demo is one of the more fun levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TIE_Elite_Pilot
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 8, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Picked this game up for $10. And to this day it's stil worth at least $35. IT's highly addictive, 
 and just as good as CoD. The graphics are somewhat outdated compared to new games, but the gameplay 
 ROCKS. The AI is fairly good (better than Q4's) and the sound is incredible. The D-Day level is 
 a highlight to the game, but all around, this is one of the best WWII shooters out there. Multiplayer 
 is a blast and theres no trouble finding players. using gamespy gets annoyin as you leave the game 
 entirely when you leave a server. this one is A MUST BUY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gstonyr
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2006 9:16 am PT
Review:  medal of honor will always be one of the best games ever. It is also the best in the series. the 
 game would run one almost any computer. the game challenging but not to hard. the Graphics were 
 insane for it's time. the levels were very well planed out and the multiplier mode was very fun. 
 they also had different kinds of multipliers. if you love shooter games you must have this game. 
 the game was very long witch made it worth the money. the sound of the people talking sounded so 
 real. the Graphics were so detailed that you could see peoples fingers and them smoking a seagirt. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatm781
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 6, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor AA, is an immersive FPS, and left a good taste in my mouth afterwards. This game 
 just makes you feel like you are really storming the Normandy beaches. Granted there are better 
 WWII games out now AA is still great. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are decent, the character models could have been better but I must cut it 
 some slack. It is an older game. The environments are cool, ranging from dilapidated cities to 
 the beach of Normandy. One cool touch is in the last level where you must wear a gas mask, its 
 cool having it onyou sound like Vader.
  
  Sound: The sound is near perfect, the guns sound great, the shouts and yellsthe voice-overs as 
 a whole are great.
  
  Gameplay: AA leads you on many quests from storming the beach, fighting through a city full of 
 snipers, driving a tank, etc. The Gameplay is diverse and fun, it kept me interested the whole 
 way through.
  
  Pick this game up to see where the WWII genre got more recognition, and realism. If you like FPSs 
 pick this one up as well. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dagamemonkey
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 6, 2006 12:16 pm PT
Review:  This game offers the top best in World War II PC games and delivers on every front. Medal of Honor 
 Allied Assault will take you through some of the most remembered accounts in history such as the 
 invasion of Normandy.
  
  MOHAA delivers some really interesting gameplay features to the table. In one mission, you play 
 a German officer and you procure an officer's uniform and papers while searching for some new technology 
 in a German submarine base. This experience alone is satisfying and is quite tense, knowing you 
 are the only good-guy in the picture while surrounded by bad-guys. Another level called "Sniper's 
 Last Stand" is plagued with (if you guessed snipers, you're not as dumb as you look) snipers virtually 
 in every tower and behind every wall. Another interesting element is the driving of the German 
 prototype "King Tiger" tank through a devastated village. You'll face Panzerfaust crews looking 
 to take you down, with your everyday friendly regular Tiger tanks to back them up. Very richly 
 done and worthy of notation.
  
  The graphics are superb. They are done very well, and you can easily determine who is friend and 
 who is foe, or whatnot. The weapon models looks great, and the environment follows this pattern 
 of gorgeous graphics.
  
  The sound is also superb. The guns make a realistic sound when fired, reloaded, or being used as 
 a blunt weapon. They sound good even when hitting something like metal, stone, or wood. The voices 
 are probably the sweetest thing about MOHAA. During the level you play a German officer, you'll 
 come across some soldiers who will either ask you for your ID papers, or simply to salute you.
 
  
  The game offers enough levels to keep you occupied for some time, and the levels usually are long, 
 or just have several objectives to complete. Overall, this game is amazing and if you're a war 
 buff or not or anywhere in between, you must own this game. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nhlkoho
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 3, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  This game never gets old. The graphics are very aged compared to the newer games but the story 
 and gameplay is incredible in this game. Medal of Honor games have always been my favorite war 
 games because they follow so close to the actual events. This game has everything from sneaking 
 your way into the enemy camp and stealing documents to getting of the boats and running up the 
 beaches while getting shot from every angle. The sound is amazing. All the weapons sound incredibly 
 real and with surround speakers you really get the full experience that this game gives you. Too 
 be honest, I don't even know if this game even has multiplayer because games like this I could 
 really care less. I have so much more fun with the story than playing against someone else. I've 
 heard that Call of Duty 2 is the best war game out there but I have not yet played it so Medal 
 of Honor is by far still the best out there. Everyone who loves a shooter with a great story needs 
 to go out and buy this game or any Medal of Honor game for that matter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 2, 2006 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Linear - I am beginning to realize that this is not necessarily always a bad word when it comes 
 to PC games. Sure, it can often hamper the replay factor of a title, but if done correctly, as 
 in Medal of Honor, it can transform that first play through into a truly spectacular thing.
  
  For all you Rip Van Winkles out there, Medal of Honor is a first person shooter set during 
 World War II. The player is dropped into the size fifteen combat boots of one Lt. Powell. Various 
 missions will have you storming the beach in Normandy, stealing top-secret Nazi documents, and 
 of course blowing things up. While Medal of Honor is rooted more deeply in reality than Return 
 to Castle Wolfenstein (another World War II first person shooter, with zombies no less) , it remains 
 largely a simple fun fast paced arcade shooter.
  
  The first level finds the player hiding out in the rear of a covered truck with a few other soldiers. 
 When stopped at a checkpoint, there is an ambush of sorts, and the soldiers must continue on foot. 
 From this point of the level onward, the illusion that your squad mates are reacting to everything 
 going on around them serves to fully immerse the player into a totally believable environment.
 
  
  Keep in mind, all of their reactions are scripted, which you will notice if you repeat the level. 
 The same things happen, and the same people live through the level over and over again. While this 
 may appear to be a game play handicap, it is not as severe as one might think. Nothing will quite 
 match up to the exhilaration of the first time, but the game still manages hold up well during 
 repeated plays.
  
  Textures are simply awe-inspiring. Whether you are trudging through snow covered forests or crumbling 
 buildings in a city of ruins, you cannot help but admire the texture work. The same goes for character 
 textures, although I just cannot say the same for the models. Faces on nearly every model in the 
 game are ridiculously strange and unnatural in appearance. I do not know how EA Games let this 
 slip through, but I am willing to forgive them this once.
  
  There are several really nice graphical touches as well. Looking into the sun results in a blinding 
 ray of light. If you have played Mafia, then you know what Im talking about. Smoke effects are 
 incredible yet subtle at the same time (if that makes any sense) . Take the Omaha Beach landing 
 for example. During the course of this level, there are constant explosions, each one leaving behind 
 a cloud of white smoke. Soon, the beach is covered in a light haze, which adds immensely to the 
 atmosphere.
  
  With great graphics such as these, I was surprised that frame rate never became an issue. The game 
 ran liquid smooth at 1600 x 1200 with all details turned up on my setup (1.8 P4, 512 RAM, GeForce 
 4) .
  
  Multiplay, while offering nothing particularly new, should extend Medal of Honors hard drive life 
 far beyond the single player game. This is helped by the nearly lag free play I experienced during 
 my ventures into the arena.
  
  Games consist of the garden variety Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Objective Match, and so on. Servers 
 are easy to find and join, making it more or less a painless activity. My one complaint in this 
 department are the insane number of full servers, but what can I say, it is fun. So, all of you 
 guys who have been glued to Medal of Honor multi-play for the past two weeks, please go out, find 
 a girl, wine and dine her, and give the next wave of losers a chance to have our fun.
  
  Shots, explosions, reloads, voices, careful footsteps in the snow, all of these sounds are magnificent. 
 Ambient sounds are used a tad too sparingly, with a far stronger emphasis on battle noise, but 
 what sounds are used are more than acceptable.
  
  Blood  where the hell is it? You may not be as sick and mentally twisted as I am, but the lack 
 of blood in this game hit me immediately, like a twenty-pound sledge to the groin. I understand 
 wanting to appeal to an audience of all ages, but even without blood, I would like to know how 
 this title was able to maintain a Teen rating. The death animations alone are enough to make a 
 person squeamish, not to mention that enemies respond quite realistically to being hit with a bullet 
 from a high caliber automatic weapon. Your doomed foes will jerk and cringe in agonizing pain when 
 shot, followed by great, albeit graphic dances of death.
  
  As is usually the case with first person shooters, enemy A. I. is a mixed bag at best. Sometimes 
 those stubborn Nazis will face you head on, standing in one spot and firing on you until either: 
 A) you die, or B) which is more likely, you blow him straight back to H-E-Double hockey sticks. 
 Then there are other times when your enemies actually exhibit uhh whats the word Im looking 
 for ah yes, intelligence!
  
  The Smart Ones as I like to call them, will flee from a room when I enter, and return shortly 
 after with two or three others. Or he will simply bombard the room with grenades, lean around a 
 corner (they can do that you know) and commence capping your ass. Another advantage the baddies 
 have over the player is the ability to go prone, while the player cannot. However, their I. Q. drops 
 into the negative numbers when it comes to using this feature. They tend to only go prone in wide-open 
 areas with nothing around whatsoever for concealment. It sort of defeats the entire purpose.
  
  Despite a few minor drawbacks, this game would make an excellent addition to even the most 
 jaded gamers collection. And besides, who wouldnt enjoy blasting apart the Third Reich and single 
 handedly winning World War II? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazethe1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 2, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  multiplayer is quick and rarely lags. singleplayer is decent, tho i dont think ive played it all 
 the way through. you will find yourself using this for the multiplayer section more tho. with more 
 than one normal game type, and one called freeze tag that im pretty sure is a mod, you will hav 
 some fun with this game. the sniper isnt very much different than the normal rifle, the scope only 
 zooms maybe 5 feet in front of you, but hey, that could be what old snipers were like. there are 
 2 other expansions for it, which you can get along with this in the war chest set. this game is 
 good, but not for much money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philbox
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 29, 2005 8:52 am PT
Review:  I love the multiplayer in this game im not good at it but it is very fun some people are really 
 hard because they play it 24\7 it is good when you go up in to a room and the enemy doesent know 
 you are there then BAM! shoot him right in the head the single player mone sucks i hate sooo much 
 just go straight to multiplayer mode of you are gonna buy it the kind of game i reccomend is team 
 battle or free-for-all or capture the flag frezze tag sucks some people my like it but not me so 
 if you buy it go straight to multi player mode ok philbox is out!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devildweller98
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 29, 2005 8:35 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honor is an amazing series. And this one Medal of Honor Allied Assault is amazing. not 
 the best in the series but a damn good game. The graphics are good and very good gameplay and sound. 
 From the D-Day landing at Normandy to the streets of Berlin, engage the enemy as you fight your 
 way across Europe in Medal of Honor Allied Assault, the definitive WWII experience. An absolutely 
 stunning experience all round. A very fun game to play. i loved it. Victory at all cost! A solid 
 game. A must have for Medal of Honor funs. i'm looking forword to more Medal of Honor games coming 
 soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PerfectDarkling
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 28, 2005 11:37 am PT
Review:  Ever since the original Medal of Honor on the Playstation, I have been hooked to this series. Its 
 mix of furious FPS combat, numerous mission types, and full use of the World War II atmosphere 
 has always kept me coming back for more. After playing Medal of Honor: Allied Assault, I can safely 
 say that this brilliant console series holds its own on the PC.
  
  The game starts with you infiltrating the town of Arzew. During the rest of the game, you'll find 
 yourself rushing a snowed in Nazi base and storming Omaha Beach on D-Day. Every level feels fresh 
 and introduces new situations. In one level, you must navigate a town filled with rooftop snipers; 
 in another, you must disable artillery units from attacking the tank you just destroyed a town 
 with. The level designs arer pretty linear, but that isn't too noticeable since each level throws 
 something new at you. The graphics - though slightly dated since its release in 2003 - still look 
 good, even on lower end systems. Lip synching for cutscenes is hit-or-miss though. One of my favorite 
 parts of the Medal of Honor series has always been the epic soundtrack. Its back again in Allied 
 Assault, and its just as beautiful, sweeping, and fitting as before. Allied Assault plays incredibly 
 well. The optional tutorial at the beginning of the game tells you everything you need to know 
 quickly and efficiently. As I mentioned eariler, the game throws lots of different gameplay scenarios 
 at you, and every one feels and plays great. The only gripe I have with the gameplay is sometimes 
 your squad and enemy AI is pretty stupid. I was taking cover from a hail of bullets while my squad 
 just stood in the field blankly and got mowed down. It doesn't happen often though.
  
  Medal of Honor: Allied Assault is the epitome of the Medal of Honor series: intense, fast paced, 
 and gorgeous. Even two years after its release, it is still an amazing game and one you would do 
 well to add to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJ4-SaGohan
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 25, 2005 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Ahh yes, just another MOH (Medal Of Honor) game with lots of fantastic game levels and the ultimate 
 maps that makes this game even more better than the previous MOH games.
  
  This game is hard in some levels. In this game you collect guns, and you use them to shoot Germen 
 people. This game takes place somewhere near (I think) the year 1800. This game has a fantastic 
 storyline. Lots of place to explore and many missions, that even concludes blowing up tanks. 
 
  
  The very first level is simple because, it's mostly about reviewing your basic movements, controls, 
 how much you know about the guns that you've used (some of them and some are new) and how to pass 
 the obstacles ( like how to climb over a ladder, crouch through small places, and many more) . 
 
  The seconde level gets harder. It includes more and advanced missions. lots more obstacles that 
 you have never trained. Longer Missions, and harder enemys. In the third mission, the beginning 
 of the mission is intense. What I means is that the missions are very hard. You need to know how 
 to get bloked from lots of machineguns and how to think quick.
  
  The way that the people talks, sounds real. The sounds of gunfire are fantastic. The explosions 
 sounds great, and if your hit, you reaction sounds like you've been hurt for real but survived.
 
  
  If you do have the previous MOH games or the new once and you don't have this game, then buy this 
 game now. It's not perfect but it the best one I've played.
  
  Ciao
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: freedom_james
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 22, 2005 5:16 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best, most enduring and excitingly replayable games that has ever been made! 
 The Single Player campaign and the Multiplayer mode are of a rare breed. The gameplay is so well-balanced 
 and fun and user-friendly that I give it a perfect 10! Nearly every aspect of this game seems to 
 have been wrought with excellent care and a brain surgeon's micro-precision needle that it falls 
 into place as one smooth operating piece of highly functional and artistic work. Some of the features 
 that I am speaking of are as follows:
  
  - Amazing graphics
  - Key AI smarts (i. e., enemies don't just stand there all the time and shoot without trying to 
 take cover, sound alarms, or get help; enemies are strategically placed in every level so as to 
 simulate a real fight scenario during World War II)
  - gigantic server list for multiplayer support comprised of a multitude of multiplayer game types 
 (such as deathmatch, team deathmatch, freeze-tag = my favorite so far, team objective, etc.) ; plus 
 loads of variant mods that can spice up the action and make things quite interesting
  - the best overall sound that I have heard in a World War II game, or better than many other first-person 
 shooters and games for that matter
  - intense and incredible realism that adds such depth to the experience that it serves as inspiration 
 for many of the games being made today, and any game I would make if I was into game creation
 
  - highly addictive, I don't believe I will ever get sick of playing this game at any given time 
 (much like going back to the classics of NES and Sega)
  
  There it is! This is my favorite first-person shooter as of today, and it will be hard to beat 
 knowing how many games like this come out and continue to not impress me or a large number of other 
 gamers who know that truly great games such as this do not come out as often as we would like them 
 to. I extremely highly recommend getting a copy of this at Target or Amazon or somewhere. For $20.00 
 or less, it is a supreme value!!!!
  
  Preston
  freedom_james5@hotmail. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: georgiaboy329
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 1, 2006 9:24 am PT
Review:  This is a great game.
  
  The gameplay on this game is great. The game takes you into a soldiers boots and you go all around 
 Europe. You will meet allies and lose allies. One thing that IO liked about this game is that you 
 are not always by yourself. Sure, you're alone on some missions, but it's still fun. The multiplayer 
 on the game is great. The servers are fast and everything like that. There is not very much lag 
 at all. The settings that you can set online are great. There is one server where it is sniper 
 rifles only and on a small level. It takes some practice to master that.
  
  The graphics are good for it's era of gaming. The guns look great and everything else does too.
 
  
  The sound is very good. On D-Day you when you're running up the beach, you'll hear the machine 
 guns firing in front of you. While all that is happening you will be able to hear the soldiers 
 yelling all around you. It makes you feel like you are there.
  
  Overall, this game is great and is worth buying. If you have only singleplayer, I would think about 
 going ahead and downloading gamespy. It's free!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarrisKrishna
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 10, 2005 9:51 am PT
Review:  Yo focks this game rulz man MOHAA Medal Of Honour Allied Assault 
  
  Graphics: This game uses a great graphics engine and everytjing is really fine. The pixel shader, 
 terrain detail, anti aliasing effects. I havent played the latest versions of this game and i dont 
 know how it looks. But this is great. I give 9 marks of 10 in GRAPHICS YEEEEEEEEHAAAaaaa
  Gameplay: World War II enviornment I like there theame its good. Steven Spielberg rulz the World 
 War II games another YEEEEHAAAA. The most unforgetfull mission is the Omaha Beach its really wonderfull 
 and superb. Even the weapons are looking good and real. :) . Igive it 10 of 10 YEEEEHAAAAAAAAAA
 
  Sound: Ohhhhh Myyyyyyyyyy Gooooooood this games sound rulz man its spectular. When i wore the head 
 phone and played the game i felt i was in the battle field **** I sometimes accidently shouted 
 f**k u man. woops its really interesting. Igive it 10 of 10 marks Yeeee Haaaaaaaaaa 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: oamorap
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 6, 2005 10:26 am PT
Review:  Comet un error con este juego, y fue que jugue primero el Call Of Duty, por lo tanto este MOH 
 no me impresiono tanto, pero aun as puedo decir que me gusto mucho.
  
  Mantiene todo lo que ha hecho de la saga Medal Of Honor una de las mejores en cuanto a juegos de 
 la segunda guerra mundial, accin de principio a fin, unos grficos muy buenos y gran variedad 
 de misiones en distintos escenarios como para no aburrirse.
  
  Lo malo, demasiado largo hay momentos en los q ya no se quiere saber mas del juego, de resto un 
 juego muy bueno fiel a toda la saga MOH 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bwolf92
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 5, 2005 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Well if you manage to skip the first two levels of the game (whic are great though) you'll get 
 one of the greatest experiences in gaming: the D-Day level. Yep, that's the Normandy Beach Invasion 
 and it's one helluva time. You start out as a new goer to the series (like me) and you'll be slaughtered 
 in the first 10 seconds by the nazi gun turrets (I swear I'm not kidding) . You'll eventually get 
 further up the beach (after like 50 million tries) and finally win the epic battle. This proves 
 that it's WAY to difficult in some parts and much easier in others. The other levels are long but 
 the whole game is quite difficult but worth it. The graphics and sound are amazing and really deliever 
 fully (same with the spot-on gameplay) You even get some multiplayer (simple but still fits the 
 bill) . So you have one of the most epic shooters (or games) ever made. Oh yeah and you get to kill 
 TONS of nazis so how could it be THAT bad? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackhillszac
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 5, 2005 5:53 pm PT
Review:  this game is very good it allows you to play not only by yourself but online with other people. 
 normaly this game needs the disc to play but you can download a patch that allows you to brows 
 the other games and play without the disc! some people have a hack that allows you to see through 
 walls and opens you to new cheats like shooting through couches and through windows. but to the 
 point this game is very addicting and you could easily lose track of time. with the good graphics 
 and the gameplay this game is a must have for anyone who likes theMedal of Honor seires. I would 
 give this game a 9.8 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kanickovi
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2005 7:56 pm PT
Review:  I have no doubt that its an amazing game. For me, its the best game i have ever played. Certainly 
 for people that like games of war and shooting in first person, will like it for sure.
  The sound, its perfect. The graphics are very very good: the game has already more than 3 years 
 that was released and its graphics continue to be excellent. Of course its not the most recent 
 quality, because there is many years since it was released, but to put it all in the maximum (a 
 lot of options - yes, there is a giant number of settings possibilities, what is great!) needs 
 a very good pc.
  There is a huge variety of environments, what makes it very pleasant to play, from the beach to 
 the German facility, with a lot of objectives.
  The multiplayer its amazing, and you never get sick of it., where you need to be fast and have 
 a lot of reflexes. I have to say that its not a tactical game, but if you want to play it seriously, 
 you need to think in one, playing in team work.
  
  If you are thinking in buying it, just do it, because its a very good game. For me, its the best 
 ever game i have ever played. 
  MOH: AA. THE BEST GAME OF WAR.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom1327
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 28, 2005 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Allied Assault is definetly the "BEST IN THE SERIES" for any moh game. This is a 
 must get if you have the money, it is very cheap. Still around 2000-4000 people playing it online. 
 The singleplayer is okay, makes you dizzy though. The multiplayer is great, and a lot of sniper 
 only servers for anyone who loves snipers. REPEAT: Medal of Honor Allied Assault is definetly the 
 "BEST IN THE SERIES" for any moh game. This is a must get if you have the money, it is very cheap. 
 Still around 2000-4000 people playing it online. The singleplayer is okay, makes you dizzy though. 
 The multiplayer is great, and a lot of sniper only servers for anyone who loves snipers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bow2me_63
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 24, 2005 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Allied Assault is the best action WW2 FPS game you can get. Yes, games like Call 
 of Duty are more realistic, but I'd choose MOHAA over COD anyday. 
  Although MOHAA is less realistic in the fact that you can kill hundreds of nazi by yourself, while 
 in COD you can only kill a few with an entire team, killing those hundreds of nazis by yourself 
 is a whole lot more fun. For crying out loud, this is video game people, not a documentary. For 
 me it doesn't matter how realistic the gameplay is, just how much fun is it. If I want to learn 
 something about WW2 I"ll watch the History Channel.
  MOHAA may be not so realistic in the gameplay, but it accurately depicts everything else. Weapon 
 models are extremely good, espicially for a 3 year old game. In fact, I don't think I've seen a 
 WW2 with better weapon models.
  The overal environment of MOHAA is extremely detailed. With a pair of good headphones you can hear 
 many ambient noises espicially in levels during the winter. You can hear German Shepards barking 
 in the distance, the winds howling, and you can hear the crunch when a Nazi takes a step in the 
 snow. The graphics are also very good. Games like COD and Brothers in Arm have SLIGHTLY better 
 graphics, but it's because they're newer games.
  The value of this game is very good. You can now get this game for 9.99. You also do not really 
 have to upgrade your computer unless your computer is REALLY low end. I have a AMD Athlon 64 2.4 
 Ghz with 1 GB of RAM and a RADEON 9200 and I can run this game at 1280 x 1024 with all settings 
 at max and my comp still runs the game very smoothly.
  So if you're wondering which WW2 game to get. get MOHAA. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharp_Axe
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 23, 2005 1:42 pm PT
Review:  This game I picked up from my friend who had been playing it for a year or so. I started playing 
 and really got into it. I had already played a lot of other FPS such as the Doom series and Halo 
 ect. This one was the best (right up there with battlefield 1942) WW2 emulation yet. I typically 
 play Breakthrough which has much better graphics and is better playing due to the patches.
  
  SINGLE PLAYER
  
  The single player in this game is brilliant. A lot more fun than BF1942. 
 There are real missions with complex objectives and takes strategy to pull off. Even at the hardest 
 difficulty setting you can still make it through even if you have to load back a couple of minutes 
 when you put yourself in a rough spot. The weapons in single player are generally very good with 
 a few variations of each of the general types listed below.
  
  Sniper Rifle: Mostly for the camping slow methodical types. Generally very good but bad kickback 
 on the Germans version. No bashing with this.
  
  Rifle: My favorite weapon because it is very accurate and takes the most skill to use. Bashing 
 is a great technique with this weapon as it is silent
  
  Sub Machine Gun (SMG) : Code named "Spray and Pray" it is a good room clearing weapon. Only effective 
 at close range. Takes about 1-2 seconds of spray to kill men. (excluding headshots)
  
  Machine Gun (MG) : More powerful version of the SMG. Better at long distances but still generally 
 ineffective.
  
  Rocket Launcher/Anti Tank: Basically if you can hit someone with this beast they are dead. Even 
 vehicles take 1-3 shots and they are toast too. Horrible reload time.
  
  Shotgun: Excellent for hallways. Big burst of Buckshot and in one hit at close to medium range 
 your enemy will crumple. Another of my favorite guns.
  
  Steilhandgranate: Think of a gun that acts like a rifle but can put grenades on the end and shoot 
 them instead. Hated by many because it is considered only for "noobs" or beginners. Very effective 
 all purpose gun.
  
  The single player campaign is long. Most of the time you are always fighting someone or trying 
 to blow up something. Sometimes though you can get lost and stuck for 10 minutes because you dont 
 see the little duct you were supposed to crawl through. I walked from one side of the map to the 
 other and back because i missed the glowing bomb placement underneath the gun. Most of the time 
 that doesn't happen though. 
  
  In the missions you usually find yourself with some friendly units fighting with you. This makes 
 the game fun because you can stand there and watch your guys to most of the work until they are 
 killed which is funny in its own right. Some maps are straightforward and easy but some are very 
 tough. Omaha is almost impossible not to get killed your first couple of times trying it. You end 
 up with about 10 machineguns all firing at you from a ridge. Some unique objectives like stealing 
 boats and such. No driving you mostly shoot out the side while you truck along at 100+mph which 
 is way more fun than you would think. Game is very stable and I haven't had it glitch out on me 
 once in single player. 
  Make sure to watch when throwing grenades. Ive blown myself up a ton of times by having it bounce 
 of tiny pieces of scenery. Oh and don't hide in the bushes. The AI isn't programmed not to see 
 thorough it so thats a bad idea. Good in Multi though.
  
  MULTI PLAYER
  
  Multiplayer I personally find to be much more fun. There are usually 5-30 severs with less than 
 100 ping for me in each category. My internet isn't the best (usually runs at like 50-150kb/s downloading 
 from third party programs like morpheus) If you have great internet you will get much better pings 
 than me. The bigger servers tend to glitch out more the more mods they have on it. Some good servers 
 are = (BH) =, |XID|, :77th: and a server called "Slims World" is fun because there is a gravity mod 
 that lets you jump up 20m and fire rockets super fast.
  
  There are a few types of multiplayer games.
  
  Free For All: You guessed it, just keep trying 
 to kill people until the map ends. Instant respawn so don't worry about getting killed.
  
  Team Match: Like free for all but you can only kill the other team. The team that reaches the required 
 number of kills first wins the map.
  
  Round Based Match: A Team Match that you try to win more than once. When a team reaches the required 
 number of victories they win the game. Scores reset after every round.
  
  Objective: Team match with an objective to complete. Complete the objectives to win.
  
  Freeze 
 Tag (mod) : Popular mod (has a objective version) that has you frozen with beams around you when 
 you die. You must unthaw your team mates to keep the match going. The first team to kill the other 
 team before they can keep respawning wins. My favorite multi match.
  
  Most people use the Machine guns and Rocket Launchers. I hate machine guns and consider people 
 who use them to be useless twerps. Takes no skill to use one. Rockets are acceptable to me because 
 of the amazing explosions which are fun and lots of fun when you have everyone using rockets in 
 a team match with +15 people. Just stick to the three R's in multi player to be considered a cool 
 guy to play. Rockets, Rifles and Remington Shotguns.
  
  The Maps are almost flawless. Sometimes you can jump behind a wall to the edge of the map with 
 certain servers mods. The Smaller maps i find to be a lot more fun. Southern France is a great 
 map but that horrible map "Malta" is terrible. If you see it run. Its so big if you get killed 
 in Freeze Tag you wont ever get thawed. If there is a small number of people you will never find 
 each other to kill and it gets boring.
  
  One of the biggest problems with Multi Player is the sounds. I know I rated the sounds good but 
 thats because the general sounds ARE good. Typically most clans mod their maps and that leads 
 to a sound track that is mainly just of a rain storm. Over and over thunder sounds not allowing 
 you to hear a damn thing which leaves you very open to attack. You cant even turn off the sound 
 track with the common "bind J cinematic" command on the console because it keeps restarting. Better 
 to just turn of the sound entirely when this happens. 
  
  Overall a great game that I have had lots of fun on. Remember kids, don't be a wuss. Use a Rifle.
 
  
  .: FPSG:. C-Dog
  
  (You can find my clan .: FPSG:. on the servers I mentioned above. There is usually one of us on 
 there hanging around. Talk to us about joining our clan. We will soon have a web page and Server 
 of our own.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgt5thboard
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 15, 2005 7:26 am PT
Review:  Now this game really hooked me up because the graphis are amazing even though you put it to the 
 lowest, gameplay was awesome, the guns are the most unique not only because they existed but was 
 worthwhile to shoot down those Nazis. You will find that some of the mission are easy but I think 
 that mission 5 is one of the thoughest. The mission I would recommend is the level 1: lighting the 
 torch and level 3: operation overlord (omaha beach, the most famous beach in the whole world) . The 
 sound in this game are the best adn the music really suits this Game. they have classical and slighty 
 scarier ones. The A. I. ....... Why do they stand up again when I just shoot them 1 time. Like they 
 have titanium vest. And somtimes they just sit there do nothing even if you were few feet away, now 
 I begin to understand why the nazi's lost the war.... Anyway, what I am trying to say is that buy 
 this game and enjoy it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shootamon
Rating: 4.8
Date: Nov 12, 2005 5:49 pm PT
Review:  I can't explain to you how lifeless it is after 2 weeks! Its exciting at first, and then, what? 
 Some of the missions are suicide man, SUICIDE! But after a while, they're pointless. It seems on 
 every MOH there's either D-day or Pearl Harbor. IT'S REPETITIVE! And that's not good. But, I mean, 
 if it's your first time playing MOH, it's actually pretty good, I think. The weapons are good though. 
 The sounds and graphics are pretty good. But the main idea of the mission objectives is tied between 
 the different missions. Some are absent-minded while others are kind of well planned. Overall though, 
 this game sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simonjose1234
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 4, 2005 2:27 am PT
Review:  This game was a really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, 
 really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, 
 really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, 
 really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, 
 really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, 
 really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, 
 really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, 
 really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, 
 really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, 
 really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, 
 really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, 
 really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, good game. I would ask you to buy 
 it as it is cheap and i thought it was challenging. I loved it it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snitch498
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 29, 2005 11:43 pm PT
Review:  I very much like the game. Nice single player mod but the beef
  is the multiplayer. Although only 4 maps are provided modders
  made many more. The only shame 
 is the lack of anti-cheat
  prevention. Shame on EA. If you haven't tried it yet pick up
  the Moh package in the bargain bin. It is well worth it.
  The endless hour in MP, good times. 
 Hope one day
  another good shooter will come around where you
  don't have to bunny jump and put two clips into your opponent.
  Unfortunatly the cross platform 
 developing will dumb
  down games further. Up yours console kiddies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kitch88
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 15, 2005 3:20 am PT
Review:  The atmosphere this game sets is INTENSE. You almost get some idea of how it was to be a soldier 
 during the D-Day invasion - I say almost, because the bullets are not real, and when you get shot 
 it takes a few bullets to put you on the ground, and even then, you can re-load and play...
  
  But MOH: AA sets a wonderful atmosphere, the levels are great, they look real, they look like 
 a war torn France, Germany, Anzio, and the German soldiers react like they would in real life. 
 You shoot at them and they dive for cover, keep shooting around them, most of them stay hidden, 
 a few daring ones shhot back, or hurl a grenade to make you run. They run off re-group and come 
 back for more, it all feels classy and well made.
  
  Then there's the D-Day landings, any one who can run up the beach, without taking a shot from the 
 Germans is a hero in my eyes... as soon as the doors come down "thwack" people die, people scream, 
 people are scared... again it all feels classy and polished.
  
  However a few gripes, there are places where the graphics feel a little cartoony and un-real but 
 these are few and far between, any my only other gripe is it is a bit arcady - one man takes on 
 the German war machine and wins - in fairness it is only a game, but I have never seen someone 
 take a whole mag of a Thompson SMG and still be standing, maybe a little unrealistic, which spoils 
 some of the War feel...
  
  But overall seroiusly enjoyalbe and very playable, if you havn't got it, get it its worth the play... 
 and after single player theres Multiplayer and thats AWESOME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 13, 2005 2:42 am PT
Review:  War games has always been popular and will never stop being that as long as Bush is President in 
 the US. He makes war and we plays the war recreated some months after the actuall war, and we enjoy 
 it. 
  
  
  The visuals are pretty great with some fine effects. The character animations is very well and 
 lookes pretty real actually. 
  
  The sounds is very good featuring the theme song from Saving Private Ryan. And the tune is great 
 and makes a fantastic mood. 
  
  The gameplay isn't as good as in Battlefield 1942 for example. The games isn't camparable thinking 
 about the genre, but the fact that you can drive and controle every thing you see in Battlefield 
 1942 is awesome. Medal of Honor: Allied Assault doesn't feature any car, tanks or airplane driving, 
 but that's okay. But the fact that you can do so in Battlefield 1942 makes that game more revulutionary. 
 
  
  + 
  Great graphics with fantastic weapon designs. The music is from Saving Private Ryan and does the 
 job very well in MOHAA. There is a fantastic multiplayer mode, which is very thrilling and entertaining. 
 
  
  - 
  You can't controle vehicles as in Battlefield 1942. The campaign has a little bit few missions. 
 The weapon arsenal is pretty shallow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robbygurung
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2005 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Medal of honour AA is simply an amazing game it places you in the command of a soldier called mike 
 powell who helps the allies bring an end to the nazi occupation in europe.
  Gameplay: is very smooth and very easy to learn just aim and shoot it is that easy.
  Graphics: the 
 graphics are pretty good consiering it was 2002 and the graphis card wasnt that good back then.
 
  Sound: is really good EA games and 2015 had a hard time capturing the realistic ww2 sounds from 
 the "ping" of the m1 garand reloading or the fire from the tomphson to the bullet of the springfield 
 sniper rifle.
  The weapons are historically accurate to the real life ww2 senarios the allies and axis weapons 
 are both realistic in every way.
  One of the most memorable levels is omaha beach known as D_day where you and fellow allied soldiers 
 run up a beach for you lives while german machine gun fire and artilletry rain down on you making 
 craters and blowing apart soldiers if you have seen Saving Private Ryan you will know what it is 
 like.
  The one thing that got me was most levels you are by yourself and you manage to kill hordes of 
 Germans without dying yourself.
  Also there is no blood which is wierd for a war game but you can get a mod for that.
  Multiplayer 
 is the best bit in the entire game i think if you find a good server. 
  Overall mohAA is easily thew best game of 2002.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cracker56
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 11, 2005 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Allied Assault is a WWII themed shooter where you are Lt. Powell a Ranger reassigned 
 to the OSS. While with the OSS he performs a series of missions some stealthy some not. There is 
 no Sqaud control in this game which is frustrating, also snipers are frusrating. The AI is exellent 
 taking cover and using grenades when needed.
  My personnel favorite part of this game was the landings at Omaha Beach which were amazinglingy 
 detail A Higgins boat is blown to bits next to you although the machin guns to like to shoot at 
 Powell the is cover and even a soldier who is shellshocked. The music of this game is excellent 
 and so is the atmosspere in one level you have a german disguise on and you can walk aroung the 
 U-boat base watching germans play card and tap there foot. The Germans are also friendly to you 
 give you a nice salute and a hello.
  
  There are six weapons classes  heavy. The weopons 
 are all well baleced. Though I wish the Colt .45 packed a little more punch. The sniper rifles 
 are great fun, sniping german troops from a distance. Even dogs become a feared enemy (remeber if 
 there is a dog running for you whip out the submachine gun) . The graphic look really great; exept 
 one time a doomed Allied soldiers legs was in the ground. I spent a very long time playing this 
 game. Another gripe the last mission of the last level was extremely hard I had to play it over 
 many times to suceed but when I did it was well worth it.
  
  -Cracker56 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazuki87
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 2, 2005 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Allied Assault is somply one of the best FPS games I have ever played. The graphics are still pretty 
 good years later, the levels are well-designed and fun, and the battles are great. The D-Day level 
 is incredible and blows away the awful one in Medal of Honor: Frontline for consoles. Scripted 
 events are obviously a big part of the series but they make things feel cool rather than artificial 
 here. The weapons and combat feels comfortable and is very fun. I have not played the multiplayer. 
 Based solely on the songle-player experience I am very impressed and it is one of the few PC games 
 I have played to completion recently which says something. At the price you'll pay today there 
 is no reaosn not to pick this game up. I cannot stress enough how important good-level design is 
 to a game and this certainly has that, although I hated one level in the woods in the snow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaaraZanta
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 26, 2005 4:49 am PT
Review:  The Medal of Honor series is sort of odd. It is filled with both great and crappy game (especially 
 recently) . But this game defines the series and has and up to now is, the best game in the series. 
 The graphics for this game are great and the sound is some of the best in any shooter. The gameplay 
 is very solid and the online play is absolutely fantastic, Im still playing it to this day.
  
  The gameplay is standard FPS shooter fair but the missions are varied and an absolute blast 
 to play. From the beaches of Omaha to the countryside of France this game is a thrill ride from 
 start to end. Then there is the online play which is very fun, my favorite map is Omaha beach. 
 Though some of the maps have choke points where you can just sit and kill most of them are well 
 balanced and a blast to play.
  
  The graphics where very good for its time and really get you into the game, to people are well 
 rendered, though they suffer from something that, though not very noticeable, plagues most FPS 
 which is where the eyes look around is random directions. Other than that the guns and the environment 
 are brought to like with incredible detail.
  
  Then there is the sound, which is the defining feature of the game, from the ambient gun fire in 
 the background to the wonderfully done and mood setting music you cant go wrong here. The guns 
 sound realistic, though Im not sure how realistic since I have only hear a couple of these guns 
 really fire. The voices are great and I like how the Germans speak in their native tongue. The 
 ambient music is great and you really get the feel you are in battle, the Omaha map is the prime 
 example with guns firing all around you and you can here the men dying and screaming for help.
 
  
  The overall value for this game is pretty high mostly due to the online play which is highly addictive 
 and very fun, some modded maps like the laser tag and such add some more variety to the already 
 fun gameplay, plus there are a lot of skin for your character that you can choose.
  
  This game is a must buy for any FPS fan and for many gamers in general, it is a great game that 
 offers addictive gameplay with great music and replay value and go cant go wrong with that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unreal-Strife
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 5, 2005 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Another World War II game. Haven't we seen enough of Call of Duty, Battlefield 1942, and others?
 
  
  Surprisingly, this is also another worthy addition to your games collection. 
  
  Medal of Honor does not have an engaging storyline, or convincing objectives, but intense action 
 make up for that. MOHAA uses a heavily modified Quake II engine, which shows its age in plenty 
 of areas. The AI is also fairly lousy, which make them standing scarecrows in the gunfire. Even 
 the Difficult setting doesn't really make it a harder fight. Basically, in the Difficult setting, 
 the enemies' weapons damage you more, and that's it.
  
  Pick up this game only if you crave more WWII action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skitzo_12
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 27, 2005 7:05 am PT
Review:  Good Points
  Absolutley fantastic, Great graphics, smooth Gameplay, Excellent Single Player Campaign, great 
 multiplayer experience.
  Bad Points
  Requires a reasonable specification PC. 
  
  General Comments
  From the moment you step foot off the deuce tonne truck, you are thrown into 
 the heat of the battle, and this dosn't let up all the way through the entire campaign. From the 
 Normandy Beaches, to North Africa, to the heart of Germany, experience it all, in this very good 
 game. Not to mention the fact that you can pit your wits against up to 32 other players like yourself 
 from allover the world. online.
  
  the omaha level is arguably one of the best levels around and the best bit of the game the rest 
 is a bit same old same old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anzelm
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 20, 2005 1:11 pm PT
Review:  This was my first MOH on PC. Been playing on PS2 before and I must say that Im not dissapointed. 
 Its so much fun and I love the entire series. 
  
  You start by playing som fairly simple assignements, tutorial like. When you get to Normandy it 
 gets a little more difficult. Even thoug its similar to the earlier games in the series it is 
 a lot of fun. 
  
  If youve been playing Frontline on PS2 you will recognize the d-day mission. It is exactly the 
 same even though its harder on the PC.
  
  The game is definitly worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaziechameleon
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 1, 2005 11:49 pm PT
Review:  wtf, people love this game, i got it when it came out years ago, and played it on my not so cutting 
 edge pc, and thought, it looks ok, sound is great, i can't wiat for the D-day level. well i get 
 to it, and i love how they potrayed D-day's sound, the machine gun fire, the screeming, the chaotic 
 sounds of battle ravaged my ear drums. but there would have to be one major thing anoying the H@LL 
 out of me, and that would be the lone machine gunner who has it in his head to shoot at only you, 
 this design decision drives me nuts, for those of you who haven't played this game, in the D-day 
 level you are running around the beaches of normandy completing some ok, and some lame objectives, 
 all while this one lame machine gunner tries to shoot you, and only you. so you run for cover in 
 a crater while you sit there the lone machine gunner unloads into the dirt trying to get you, and 
 you can't move till he reloads, or changes barrels or what ever, this mechanic blows, its like 
 leap frog, you hit cover, wiat a minute till he reloads, sprint to cover and hide agian, rinse 
 and repeat, this is the Dday level. personaly i think it blows, and i'm hugely supprised to see 
 that the geniousus behind call of duty made this peice of SH! T.
  
  PROS:
  Great sound, some ok set peices, cool blind fire thingy the AI does, cool reload animations.
 
  
  CONS:
  BAD AI, stupid dogs, not so impressive graphics, crapy multiplayer, d@mn quake 3 engine, crapy 
 D-day. nothing really worth playing.
  
  THE MEAT:
  skipp this if you want to i ramble.
  
  OK people riddle me this, how come so many games use un moded versions of the d@mn quake 3 
 engine. first that engine, works like SH! T online unless the developers mess with the code, examples 
 are rtcw, and mohaa, both games would have had great multiplayer but the darn engine never gets 
 above 20 fps online (if you are wondering, i have a 3.0 hyper threaded pentium four processor, geforce 
 6800 gt, o gig of ram, and can run DOOM 3 at 1280X1024, with everything turned up, possibly because 
 of some handy over clocking) , now, in call of duty the developers went to town on the engine, and 
 you can play the united offense expansion pack online with the new patch with narry a drop in framerate 
 on a new machine, plus that game has vehicle physics online supported for online play. the quake 
 3 engine is good looking after it is over hauled, but i never new why so many developers licensed 
 it, then a good engine, like doom3, half life 2, farcry, chronicles of riddick, and no one licenses 
 their engines, well atleast not for good games. another good engine that isn't used properly is 
 the UT2003-2004 engine, no developer milked it for what it was worth till swat 4, and chaos theory (a 
 beautiful single player experience) came along. this game isn't a darn war game, and neither is 
 rtcw, they only use the war as a back drop for their SH! TTY fiction. this game doesn't really tell 
 any sort of story, it only bombards you with "experience" after "experience". these experiences 
 vary, but none are really entertaining. i must say that i can't understand some people. ok this 
 game has generaly lame AI, ridiculous linearity, poor gameplay, and it gets a 9.0. i played the 
 online component for this game today, and it, even years after the fact, runs like @#$R, oh yeah, 
 good stuff, this game has a cool blind fire thing the enemy does when you assualt their @$$, problems 
 with it are that the AI is as accurate when not aiming as they are when they are aiming. sound 
 is really good, good music, good guns audio, good vioce acting. cool weapons animations.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  wiat this game has gameplay, oh yeah it's that quake style twich shooter gameplay, 
 but wiat this is a war game, but you do have to reload, that qualifies it as realistic. (sorry if 
 you can't catch my sarcasm, it is hard to convey in type)
  7
  GRAPHICS:
  i guess they are good, but aren't unilized well, the level design doesn't reflect the good graphics.
 
  9
  SOUND:
  not alot to say, it's pretty awsome on almost every level.
  10
  VALUE:
  i can't beleive this game cost me fifty bucks, oh well, i guess that it's not the worse value, 
 but darn, i feel bad giving such a popular game bad ratings.
  7
  REVEIWERS TILT:
  i like the genre, but this game anoys me, but i spent the time to beat it so i'd like to say it 
 can entertian, but i don't really look back on my memories of playing this game all that fondly, 
 it's just that the Dday level disapionted so much.
  8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 23, 2005 6:46 am PT
Review:  A lot of World War 2 shooters owe their existence to the Medal of Honor series of games. Medal 
 of Honor: Allied Assault (MOHAA) , brought cinematic elements to the first person shooter world. 
 MOHAA makes you feel as if you are in the movie Saving Private Ryan.
  
  The game centers around your character arriving in the European theater of World War 2 on D-Day. 
 You are part of the group charged with storming Omaha beach. The game delivers the finest level 
 by far in a FPS ever in my opinion. The bullets flying everywhere, the chaos of raw recruits, bodies 
 flying in the air as they get hit with artillery, the smoke filled air, all of it makes you feel 
 as if you are there on the beach. The game then continues with you perfoming missions throughout 
 the countryside taking it to the Nazis. The production values are in top notch with well scripted 
 dialogue and story elements. The missions make a lot of sense and fit into the story itself. The 
 game does start to feel like a one man army by the middle of the game. I can accept this to some 
 degree considering that this was a reletively new class of game, but looking at how Call of Duty 
 made you feel like part of a team, it is a bit of a downer and takes you out of the experience 
 a bit.
  
  Graphically, the game looks nice. Expressions on peoples faces are clear and show the scars of 
 war. The game does feel a little to colorful at times for a war zone, but not to the point of taking 
 you out of the experience. The engine gets put through its paces with several types of environments, 
 and they all look good. The snow levels are great looking and have that cold mist in the air that 
 was great to look at.
  
  Sound was also good, but the weapons did not sound as beefy as I thought they would. And the tanks 
 sounded a bit artificial. The ambient sound and background music is good and never is overbearing. 
 The voiceovers are good and the people seemed to put genuine emotion into the characters.
  
  There were some issues that glared big time. First was the one man army issue which I covered 
 in some detail above. I just felt that on too many missions, you were taking it to the Nazis on 
 your own, without any backup and no teammates. I can see that on some missions, but on almost all 
 of them. Seemed a bit too fake to me. And the lack of blood was another issue. I understand that 
 this was done to get a teen rating, but it seems like a slap in the face at World War 2 as a whole. 
 War is not pretty and should never be sugar coated. If you are trying to do a fairly serious shooter 
 like this, then there is no excuse for leaving blood out of the equation. And not to spoil it, 
 but I think most will agree that the way the game ends is a miserable payoff after all the time 
 that you put into the game.
  
  Overall, the game is good. It overcomes some glaring problems due to its story and moviesqe feel. 
 You won't be disappointed with the game, but you will see that there was a fair amount keeping 
 it from greatness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anthonyActon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 27, 2007 2:08 am PT
Review:  You are put in the frontlines as Lt. Powell, a fictional sargent who in Allied Assault, bravely 
 goes against all odds to lead his squad to victory against the Nazis. You will travel all over 
 Europe to fight in gut-wrenching realistic firefights, destroy Nazi heavy artillery, stow away 
 aboard a Nazi U-Boat and destroy a hidden Submarine base, defend your allies as they bring about 
 the destruction of the Nazi war machine, and possibly the most horrifying and exciting thing in 
 a computer game.... storm the beaches of Normandy on the tremendous D-Day assualt that was the beginning 
 of the end for the Nazi domination of Europe.
  
  From the outset of this game, you will be able to tell this isn't just some other Shoot-em up, 
 it's a supurbly crafted WWII Action game that delivers in all departments. Graphics:
  The graphics in MoH Allied Assault are fantastic and look exceptionally real. Whether you are running 
 up Omaha beach, creeping through the forests of Germany or traversing your way through the destroyed 
 cities in France, you always have a feeling of 'being there'. Sound:
  One of the best things about MoH Allied Assault is the sound. The music is performed brilliantly. 
 The gunfire is as authentic as it gets because EA went to lots of trouble to record the sound and 
 make it as realistic as possible by actually testing real WWII weapons and recording the sound. 
 The music can be thrilling, and other times haunting, especially when you know there's a sniper 
 hiding somewhere in the rubble up ahead.
  
  MoH Allied Assault has an online mode which is especially fun. You have your basic modes like Deathmatch 
 &amp; Team Deathmatch, but there's many other exciting modes like a mod for Capture the Flag, another 
 mod for Tag , and my favourite mode of all, the Objective Based levels. In these you either play 
 as an Allied Soldier or an Axis Soldier as you try to complete certain objectives. Depending on 
 who you play as, these missions range from destroying V2 Rockets, blowing up bridges, running up 
 Omaha Beach (as the Allies obviously) or planting a demolition charge on a German Anti-Tank weapons. 
 It's little touchs like these that make the game so exciting and fun to play.
  
  With an exceptional Single Player Campaign and terrific online multiplayer game, you will be playing 
 this game for months. I still play this game to this day, no lie. Even if you are not a fan of 
 WWII games, I still recommend you give this game a try, as it practically put the WWII shooter 
 genre on the map. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mithu1234
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 3, 2005 5:02 pm PT
Review:  the allied attack and their tryst with their destiny is presented in this game with a gripping 
 story line. the game grows on you and u fight for ur prestige and valour. the game has several gameplay 
 elements of most other games (say for example, the ability to change uniforms which reminded me 
 of HITMAN ) . THE GRAPHICS ARE SIMPLY SUPERB AND EVERY DETAIL IS FINELY CAPTURED. SOUND IS JUST APPROPRIATE 
 TO THE SETTING ,THE INGAME MUSIC KEEPS U EXCITED AND GLUED TO UR SEATS. GAMEPLAY IS AWESOME. APART 
 FROM THE VARIOUS WEAPONS OF THAT PERIOD, U GET TO TRY MACHINE-GUNS, VEHICLES LIKE THE TIGERTANK, PLAY 
 THE DISGUISE ROLE, ENGAGE IN STREET BATTLES (REMINDED ME OF KASHMIR AND IRAQ) ,SURVIVE AIR ATTACKS 
 ,FACE OPEN COMBAT IN BATTLEFIELDS LIKE THE OMAHA BEACH LEVEL WHICH MAKE U THINK ABOUT THE TRIALS 
 AND TRIBULATIONS WHICH THE DIEHARD ALLIED SOLDIERS MUST HAVE GONE THROUGH TO DEFEAT AXIS POWERS 
 AND SAVE DEMOCRACY AND FREEDOM. various mods and improvements for the game are available and can 
 be downloaded. a great game, infact a must must buy game. i take this occassion to salute the soldiers 
 who laid down their lives for cause of humanity as also the makers of this amazing game.
  
  Ashirvad Parida. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HALOMONKEY2552
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 23, 2005 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Allied Assault is one of the best in the series, and of the best out there. The SIngleplayer 
 campaign takes you through a large Battle against the axis powers. I liked the graphics, especially 
 since it was on the PC, and the sound was exhilerating. The action never stopped, and the game had 
 my favorite WWll battle: D-Day, which in my opinion makes the campaign more realistic and better. The 
 Battles you experience are filled with machine gun fire and action packed explosions. I liked the 
 variety of the real weapons they had like thompson , and the BAR, along with the classic springfield. And 
 the amount of different objects never makes the SP boring, you must sneak through disguised as a 
 Nazi, and blow up enemy artillary to name a few. This game also handles nicely for a PC game, and 
 is a pretty Good PC shooter. So I'd like to say, if you like action shooters, this game should be 
 in your PC drive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fahrenheit1221
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2005 5:40 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Allied Assault's real enjoyment comes out of the atmosphere and experience. It features 
 an unforgetable array of effects and visuals that make it feel like you are in 1940's Europe and 
 seeing the horrors of World War II first hand. The dramatic destruction, wrecked cars and buildings, 
 the immense devastation that is associated with this time frame, it's all here.
  
  The game has a very fluid control system which makes it easy to pick up. This is a very good ingrediant 
 for any good game. The game also has amazing audio, a superb orcheastral score and great ambient 
 sound effects combine to form some of the best in game audio ever.
  
  The game covers several famous battles including the most infamous, Omaha Beach and the D-Day invasion 
 of Normandy, France. This level is one of the most memorable of any level on any video game ever 
 made.
  
  Allied Assault also has some of the best multiplayer action around. The deathmatch is fun, team 
 is even better and there is also objective and round based. All these provide equally unique and 
 engaging experiences.
  
  MOH: AA is a must have for any real WWII fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rossip00
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 26, 2004 9:17 am PT
Review:  I was very excited after reading the reviews and finally getting the game to play. However, after 
 a few days into it I was disappointed by the bad AI, which is totally scripted, and the really 
 silly ending. The AI is so bad and the enemy so stupid I found my concentration during the game 
 drift. This has an obvious effect on the immersive value as it is difficult to imagine yourself 
 a soldier in WW2 when your enemy is dumber than plant life. I also thought the ending was very 
 silly and the scenario implausible at best. The good things about this game would be the excellent 
 graphics and sound. In addition I must say that the D-Day landing was awesome, filled with intense 
 combat and strong action. Overall I rate this game about an 7.0. While not great it does have enough 
 action to make it an enjoyable experience.
  
  Thanks.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pad69
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2004 12:37 pm PT
Review:  First of all I loved the look and feel of play the sounds and stories. I felt like I just got shipped 
 out.
  I am struck with a sence of awe as though I was there and could almost smell the blood, smoke, 
 sweat and tears. The creaters of this game gave us a gift and enjoyment to the experiences of those 
 who fought a most horific battle of the century. I was not done in disrespect but admiration of 
 those people yet the enjoyment of playing a game.
  
  If you want to know more in peticular other than my speechless words I sugest you read the lengthy 
 words of another reviewer 'audiosoldier' as he has done well and I do not think I can do it better.
 
  
  If you have not bought and played this game yet go do it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epicsoldier
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2004 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Awesome game, the story is great, very great. The graphics also improved alot, and have been done 
 very very well for the time of the release of this game. Alot of people would just say "yay another 
 world war 2 first person shooter" but this game did set the way that first person shooters are 
 played today. The sound has been done very greatly, and the animation is crazy good. The story 
 improved, and this game has made this series very very different (in a good way) . I'd recommend 
 it for anyone looking for that fps that they wanted, it's most likely fairly cheap, if you can 
 find it.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cycloptis
Rating: 7.6
Date: Oct 28, 2004 10:02 pm PT
Review:  The Medal of Honor series has always been one of Electronic Arts' flagship titles. Each entry in 
 the series is usually the EXACT same thing, but that doesn't change the fact that this is still 
 a fun game. Eventually, the formula will get tiring, but not yet. You play as Lt. Mike Powell, 
 and this game takes place well into World War II. You are sent on numerous one-man army style missions 
 against the Axis forces throughout the war, but the entire story isn't covered in this one game. 
 No, you have to play ALL the games to get a complete story of the Second World War and its non-existent 
 killing machines, who are featured in the Medal of Honor games exclusively. Throughout your service, 
 you take part in Operation Torch, infiltrate a U-boat facility, take place on the Omaha Beach landing, 
 cut through Axis forces in France, and finally end up in Fort Schmerzen for your final mission. 
 Of course, because this is after all an Action Game, that is a fair bit of storyline. The problem 
 is, is that there is no input of any kind from your character, so you never hear him talk to anyone 
 or anything. Fortunately that problem was fixed in the video diary cut-scenes of the 1st expansion, 
 but I won't go into that here.
  
  Anyways; graphically, this game was terrific when it first came out. Of course, it uses the Quake 
 III engine, which was a glorious engine when it first was available to developers. But this game 
 used it close to the max. A very good example is on the Omaha beach level. When you are charging 
 towards the beach all the crap hits the fan as your squad members are blown away (no gore however) 
 as shells make dents in the sand. At the same time the ground shakes as machine gun fire sweeps 
 the remnants away. It's all a terrific display of the PC's capabilities (of about 3 years ago) , 
 and has yet to be matched by a Medal of Honor game (because they were all on the consoles except 
 for this) . The sound and music are equally impressive as all the glorious and enriching sounds 
 of hot lead escaping a barrel sound strangely like the ones in Saving Private Ryan. The music is 
 full orchestral and it rips the depression feeling right from the 40's augments their impact in 
 this package. Gameplay is standard action game. You pick up weapons as you go and receive ammunition 
 from defeated enemies. The largest problem, however, is that you can carry way too much and live 
 way too easily. You can take up wards of 20 shots on the easier modes and still more than 5 on 
 hard. Also, at one point I could carry my pistol, 6 grenades, a Browning Automatic Rifle, a Thompson, 
 AND a shotgun. World War 2 was not about one man armies! Another problem is artificial intelligence. 
 Enemies will just stand their and shoot you. They don't move for the most part, but they keep on 
 shooting you blindly until you or they die. But where the game loses the most points is how boring 
 most of the post D-Day missions are. It feels like the developers wanted to just use the exact 
 same textures on the levels. It was always snowing, and it was always night time. Another problem 
 was that there were near impossible missions where enemies would use their weapons to shoot you 
 down when you could barely see them. Often times there were a thousand of them just shooting and 
 eventually you'd die anyways because of their insane accuracy.
  
  Multi-player features plenty of maps which are mostly well constructed and fun to play. You have 
 your standard gametypes (minus capture the flag) and some objective modes added in for good measure. 
 My personal favourite is the Omaha beach level where you have to sneak into the bunkers and detonate 
 two cannons. First you have to get past machine gun fire from enemy players and detonate bangolores. 
 Then you have to go through the trenches and through the bunkers three levels and then you get 
 to go through more trenches. At last you have to take 5 seconds to set the bomb and then wait another 
 5 seconds. On with the review. There are still several problems with mutli-player as well. At first, 
 before any expansion, the weapons were terribly inaccurate. Second, there are ZERO physics as you 
 can just aim at someone and not have to calculate running speed and aim ahead. You can just line 
 up sights and fire and they'll be hit. This is another reason why I took major points off.
  
  However, if you don't care about realism, and are willing to go through fun levels and then 
 trudge through bortastic ones, then this is a decent package; although there are some much better 
 choices. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rattlesnake_8
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 27, 2004 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor: Allied Assault is an awesome game which all FPS fans should own. The graphics look 
 great and the sounds are realistic. The battles you have throughout the entire game are realistic. 
 Explosions go off around you, tracers fly over your head and rounds sound like they are actually 
 hitting the object they hit. The most chaotic battle is the Omaha beach level where you charge 
 out of the landing craft and slowly work your way up to the shingle, without being cut down my 
 MG42's or an 88 round. The battle is scripted, but it still looks amazing, just like the rest of 
 the game. 
  
  Some missions you have other team mates around to help out which creates the feeling that you aren't 
 the only one fighting the war and that it really is just one mans story out of all of those that 
 fought. The maps are done very well and there is a huge variety in missions. The most frustrating 
 mission would have to be "sniper town" where you have to get from one side of a town to the other 
 taking out snipers as you go, and not being sniped yourself. A lot of people had problems with 
 this mission, especially on the harder difficulty settings. Other than this mission though, the 
 rest were a blast the play through.
  
  Single player is a great experience, however multiplayer is also a heap of fun. I havn't played 
 online, but from LANs i've been to, we had a great time with this game. The maps are layed out 
 well and it's amusing watching someone flip around in the air when a grenade goes off under them. 
 
  
  This is a fantastic WWII experience that shouldn't be missed by anyone who plays FPS games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Racing_Fanatic
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 16, 2004 2:44 am PT
Review:  First off, I would like to say this: I know this game is old, but it's still a classic.
  
  I first saw this game at Best Buy. I played the demo and I knew from that moment on, I would buy 
 this game. This game is addicting. I know, that right now, the Graphics are dated, but back then, 
 they were sweet! I also love the gameplay, a very important part of it. There are levels that will 
 make you go pale, the action is that intense. The first time I played the D-Day level, I was in 
 shock. I have never played any level quite like that. Its so chaotic, and its a fantastic level, 
 clearly shows that the developers put a lot of time into the game. The sound is very good, and 
 the music fits the game perfectly. There are a few drawbacks, though. Some of the levels, can be 
 frustrating. (The Communications Blackout comes to mind) Sometimes, your allies wont shoot, and 
 will do stupid things. And, yes the game is repetitive after a while. But those are minor quibbles. 
 Im amazed at the amount of awards this game has gotten. I can clearly see why, this game received 
 them all. This game is a classic, and you should pick it up if you dont have it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DivineComedy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 2, 2004 9:19 pm PT
Review:  This is the only game in my life I've played the demo three times. That to descrobe the addictiveness 
 of this game. This game along with Max Payne brought me back storming into the gaming arena after 
 I was 'asleep' for a few years. The gameplay can be described as revolutionary becasue the awesome 
 environments created in this game plus the amazing soundwork which is close to art. The first level 
 (DDay) is the best game level I've played in my life and I honestly don't think there will be a 
 game in the coming years that can surpress it. Even without playing the multiplaye (which is very 
 good too) , this game is well worth the money, specially now tha tit can be found for pennies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martlume
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 20, 2004 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor set a new standard for event-driven shooters. The game has you serving 6 long missions 
 for Allied forces at the point of WW2 in 1944 when the Germans are starting to give in. It is always 
 clear what has to be done, mission objectives never get repetitive but most importantly, the immersion 
 that has been achieved with triggered events puts most rivalring games to shame. The perfect example 
 of MOHAA's mission quality is the infamous attack on Omaha Beach (left pic) : arrival by boats, 
 hundreds of soldiers around you killed in seconds (and often you too) by random artillery fire, 
 making your way to the barricade, hearing captain yelling you through the battle-noise what to 
 do, later going through the fortification tunnels (i've seen similar ones in England :) ) to take 
 out the German artillery - this creates a helluva feeling of actually being there. Yet if one was 
 to disregard the excellent transition between events, MOHAA is not that great of a shooter. Over 
 half of the game's combat takes place indoors where there are very few places to take cover, and 
 since getting hit makes your cross-hair tremble so that returning accurate fire becomes very hard, 
 the one who fires first usually makes all the damage. That makes MOHAA's gameplay very similar 
 to that of 1992's arcade smash hit Mad Dog McCree - baddies appear on the screen and you have to 
 point your mouse quickly at them and click fast! :) The second major annoying feature is delivered 
 by sniping: in mission 5 there are around 20 snipers scattered throughout the level, and with their 
 very long shooting ranges there is often no telling where the deadly bullets are coming from (many 
 other games show pointers for that) . Having to reload the game and walk out in the open dozens 
 of times just to identify a single sniper can be very frustrating. Thirdly, MOHAA suffers from 
 the typical AI problem of shooters: sniping one of the two guys standing next to each other yields 
 no reaction from the other guy whose buddy just got his helmet blown off... However, these shortcomings 
 are easy to overlook in the light of MOHAA's smoothly flowing exciting events.
  
  17/20 - Based on : 20 HOURS
  4/4 PRODUCTION VALUES - Good scripting, nice-looking and -sounding.
 
  4/4 ACCESSIBILITY - Very excellent instructions, always.
  3/4 PACING - Events in the game flow well. Gets 3 for the stupid snipers.
  3/4 INNOVATION - Very 
 well-used scripting in missions like the Omaha Beach attack, otherwise nothing special.
  3/4 IMMERSION - Feels like Mad Dog McCree sometimes. Other than that there are some awesome moments. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bombad_jedi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 3, 2004 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor: Allied Assualt is certainly the best WW2 Shooter ever to hit the market.
  The clear highlight of the game is the Omaha Beach level, which really captures the feel of "Saving 
 Private Ryan".
  
  The King Tiger Tank campaign is a very interesting level, not only because you can ride a tank, 
 but it is also not a rail ride, like most other vehicles in this and many other FPS games.
  
  The graphics are not the best I've ever seen, but they certainly capture the feel that is needed 
 to pull this game off.
  
  The sound is an amazing spectacle I've never seen surpassed in any other game. The full orchastral 
 music sounds just right for the era, also.
  
  The only real downside is the difficulty. I'm talking about the "Sniper's Last Stand" level.
 
  I challenge you to beat that level without a major amount of reloading.
  
  All in all I've never played such an impressive WW2 game, and recommend it to anyone interested 
 in the war, or any FPS fan for that matter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smnsmnsmn2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 27, 2004 4:23 am PT
Review:  In fact, Allied Assault surpasses the original Medal of Honor games on the Playstation, in more 
 than just one way. In Medal of Honor: Allied Assault, you don the boots of Lieutenant Mike Powell, 
 an experienced American Army Ranger working for the Office of Strategic Services. However, you 
 know little about his background, and he never says a word, so it's hard for the gamer to "connect 
 with Powell". Without doubt, the best mission in the game is the amazing re-creation of the landing 
 at Omaha Beach. The scenario involving the submarine, though, came in at a distant second.
  
  Medal of Honor utilized a modified Quake III engine, but despite the engine's age, one must 
 admit that the visuals in the game look quite impressive. 2015, Medal of Honor's developers, obviously 
 completely overhauled the engine. What really immerses you into the game is the details that are 
 evident almost everywhere. For instance, you'll notice, if viewed at a sufficiently close range, 
 there are bugs flying around lamps. Also, the liquid in barrels have actual volumes - shoot a barrel 
 in the upper part and the flow will stop shortly, but if you shoot a barrel in an area close to 
 the bottom, the fluid will continue flowing for a long time.
  
  What the Medal of Honor series is really famous for, however, is its musical and sound quality, 
 and Allied Assault continued in its predecessors' footsteps. The voice-acting is excellent throughout, 
 and the Germans actually speak German. The rich soundtrack is outstanding, setting the mood & atmosphere 
 and providing the drama.
  
  Medal of Honor: Allied Assault is one of the best WWII games released to date. While some may still 
 complain about the continous scripting, the inconsistent realism, and the all-knowing artificial 
 intelligence, these faults barely, if not at all ruin the spectacular experience of this title. 
 If you really want to immerse yourself into the famous battle, do yourself and get a copy of Medal 
 of Honor, as it's the closest you can get other than actually getting actively involved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ANSteve
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 13, 2004 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor: Allied Assault bust onto the scene less than 2 years ago and changed the way I 
 think of Medal of Honor forever. It also helped open my eyes to the amount of fine FPS games made 
 every year. Now, please  clear the raft!
  
  Gameplay  Medal of Honor takes all the great elements from gaming design. It includes run and 
 gun sections, storied sections, makes thing epic, give you allies, changes the settings, and includes 
 plenty of strategic value for the more difficult parts of the game (at least strategic for a first 
 person shooter!) Overall, Medal of Honor is just a really well put together first person shooter 
 from the level design, environment, AI, and objective standpoints.
  
  Graphics  Medal of Honors graphics arent half bad even for today and back when it was released 
 they were some of the best. Bring dynamic lighting, volumetric smokes, AI that could understand 
 that lighting, and plenty of well crafted models and textures Allied Assault brings World War 2 
 to life like never before. All the locations in the game look excellent from the snowy Norwegian 
 U-boats bases and their interiors to the muddy beaches of Normandy filled with obstacles and bunkers 
 to clear out. The biggest innovation for the game though, is its wide variety of animations couple 
 with a location-based hit system and youve got the most realistic looking deaths weve seen.
 
  
  Sound  Allied Assault is probably the best sounding game ever made as far as scores and sound 
 effects go. The weapons are ultra-realistic sounding taken straight from the source, the voiceovers 
 arent bad and Germans actually speak in German, and to top it off the score of near movie caliber 
 and the best ever heard of in a video game (at least till Frontline came out.)
  
  Value  Medal of Honor is of decent length, but its multiplayer out of the box is quite lacking. 
 The map design doesnt fit in all that well with the game and the weapons setup interface and ease-of-use 
 are quiet poor making Allied Assaults biggest weakness its average value (for the original $50 
 price point.)
  
  The bottom line is that Medal of Honor: Allied is one of the best shooters to date on the PC or 
 any console and certainly worth picking up for such a small fare these days.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BamaBurner
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 21, 2003 7:51 am PT
Review:  I've been playing this game for 2 years, of course, online. The single player is very easy, even 
 on the most difficult level. The graphics are the best for its time and the sounds are just awesome. 
 The only thing that is really holding me back from giving it a better score is the many small glitches 
 that never got fixed. In multiplayer, about 1 out of every 3 or 4 nades are duds (which is kinda 
 realistic, but they weren't meant to be like that. ie, they explode but don't do any damage) and 
 when running and shooting your bullets don't follow your crosshair. Other than that, it's a really 
 fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 24, 2003 9:37 am PT
Review:  Chalk me up as another gamer who just doesnt get it. If this is all that it takes for a first-person 
 shooter to earn such high praise, then the genre is in serious need of an overhaul. 
  
  MOHAA certainly gets a 10 for the atmosphere. The music is great, and all of the German soldiers 
 actually speak German, which gives it a nice sense of realism. I wish that more games would do 
 this, instead of having everyone speak English, with a horribly voice-acted accent. Many times, 
 when there is a squad of German soldiers closing in on you, you can often hear them barking orders 
 at one another. Sometimes you hear guards chatting and having a conversation, but you cant understand 
 what they are saying. The weapons sound unique, and all of them are great. The automatic weapons 
 have a satisfying rat-a-tat-tat sound, and the sniper rifle makes a loud, echoing crack. The 
 weapon reloading animations are also very realistic, something that is lacking in most games.
 
  
  The graphics are kind of a mixed bag. They look good as a whole, but they are rather plain, and 
 they get repetitive quickly, because the areas are so featureless. Faces are plain and featureless 
 too, until you get right up close. Suffice it to say  graphics are good, but this is not the best 
 display of the Quake 3 engine. Unlike some other games (like Max Payne) , the environment is completely 
 non-interactive, except for rare objects that you can pick up (e. g, ammo, health packs) . The scenery 
 gets old after you have seen the millionth brown crate or rock. 
  
  The AI for enemies is dreadful, so the game makes up for it by giving them (especially snipers) 
 super perfect insta-aim. That means you walk out from under cover, and a sniper shoots you from 
 a mile away without taking any time to aim. Some of them can shoot you through the edges of trees 
 or walls, and they can see you through fog or brush. This makes the outdoor levels an exercise 
 in tedium and frustration. Many of the enemies in the game dont even need to be looking at you 
 to shoot at you  they simply stick their guns out from behind cover. You spend half of this game 
 peeking your head out from corners and getting it shot off, then reloading your quick save and 
 doing it over again. 
  
  MOHAA mixes some really cool, fun levels with some poor ones. The unique and creative levels are 
 the saving grace for the game. The Omaha Beach level is indescribable. You just have to experience 
 the carnage and the chaos yourself. There is one level where you are guarding a bridge by sniping 
 enemy soldiers and calling in air strikes against tanks. There is another level where you infiltrate 
 a U-boat and sink it. Medal of Honor: Allied Assault has a couple of great infiltration and stealth 
 levels. This is incredibly rare for a hardcore action game (usually the token stealth level in 
 an action game sucks) . These are the parts of the game that make it worth playing at all. 
  
  On the other hand, there are some levels in this game that really stink. A lot of them are 
 stereotypical corridor hunts where you mow down retarded bad guys as they come around the corner 
 one by one (according to a script) . Many of them are tedious, sniper-heavy levels which force you 
 to reload your game 15 times to get past ONE enemy. I cant stress enough how un-fun sniper battles 
 are. There is one absolutely wretched sniper level in this game that almost ruins the experience 
 by itself. That level is simply the worst level I have ever played in a first-person shooter  
 the fact that it is in there shows that the game was minimally play-tested  nobody could possibly 
 find that to be fun. If you have played Jedi Knight 2: Jedi Outcast, and you hated the sniper 
 level in that game, then imagine if it was 10 times worse. Seriously.
  
  Perhaps I am being too harsh on a game that I gave a 7.2 to, but I want the industry to do more 
 than churn out an endless supply of linear 10-hour shooters. I wanted to love this game more than 
 I did. Medal of Honor: Allied Assault does a lot to distinguish itself, but then brings itself 
 back down to Earth again. In the end, this is a quality title, but it could have benefited from 
 some changes. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
