-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Medal of Honor: Airborne
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/medalofhonorairborne/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lots of intense action.
 Strong online multiplayer.
 Levels aren't strictly linear.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 First half of game isn't very interesting.
 Weapons can be tough to aim thanks to recoil and poor hit detection.
 Lots of little flaws detract from the overall experience.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  4, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.8, 39 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 2,995 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date:     Sep 4, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The single-player campaign doesn't get cooking until the last two levels, but those two levels combined 
 with solid multiplayer make it worth enlisting in Airborne. 

  It seems you can't read a preview or review of a World War II-based FPS without hearing about how 
 many games there are in the genre. With good reason, too -- it's a crowded one. But just because 
 there are a lot of them doesn't mean there can't be some good ones. Medal of Honor: Airborne is 
 one such game. It starts off really slow, and the whole parachuting hook is little more than a 
 gimmick; but later on the game realizes its potential and gets good.  

  There's not much of a story to Airborne. It's WWII; Nazis need killing and the world needs saving. 
 You're in the Airborne division, so you'll be jumping out of planes and doing your part to swing 
 the war in the Allies' favor. Before each mission you're given a brief rundown on what's going 
 on and list of objectives to accomplish. Rather than spawning on the battlefield you'll arrive 
 in style by parachuting out of a plane. As you fall to the ground you'll want to maneuver toward 
 green smoke, which indicates a safe landing zone. In theory, parachuting into the level is supposed 
 to open up a whole new style of play. You're free to land wherever you want, but invisible walls 
 prevent you from getting too clever, and nine times out of 10, when you do land somewhere other 
 than the safe zone you'll end up dead in a matter of seconds. There are some special landing zones 
 to discover and sometimes these areas will provide you with an advantageous starting point, but 
 because you find most of these locations when you're already on the ground, they're of little use. 

           Might as well jump.      

  Once on the ground you'll take on waves of Axis soldiers over the course of the game's six levels. 
 Six levels might not sound like a lot, but each generally takes an hour or more to complete, so 
 it'll probably take most people around eight hours to finish the game. Your objectives are shown 
 on your radar and you're free to tackle them in whatever order you choose. Between choosing your 
 starting location and being able to pick what to take on first it might sound like there's a lot 
 of freedom here, but there's really not -- you can't start from many different places, and you have 
 to do the same tasks regardless of the order you start them. Mission objectives range from blowing 
 up AA guns to clearing buildings of enemy soldiers, taking out tanks, and detonating lots of explosives. 
 On their own these tasks aren't anything unique, but because the levels are so long and feature 
 so many objectives you often feel as though you're performing monumental feats rather than routine 
 tasks.  

  The first three levels aren't very interesting. They're fairly linear, take place in unexciting 
 settings, and don't play to the game's strengths. Starting with the fourth level the game picks 
 up since you're given more freedom as to how you want to tackle the levels. You might decide to 
 climb towers to take out snipers (their position is given away by a reflection off their scope) , 
 clear the area of ground troops, and then make your way into a building, while a different player 
 might head to the building first, clear the ground troups second, and hide from the snipers rather 
 than kill them. The game's artificial intelligence isn't very good, but at least it's aggressive. 
 You can pick off guys as they peek around corners, but they won't just take it lying down. They'll 
 spray bullets in your direction without looking, and they're rather fond of blindly tossing grenades 
 over their backs. If you get too close or they get some reinforcements, enemy soldiers will charge 
 right at you and inflict serious damage until you can fend them off with your weak melee attacks. 

           You can pick where you land, but straying outside the safe zone typically means death. 

  The controls are pretty standard on both the PC and the 360. A sprint button comes in quite handy 
 when trying to dash from one bit of cover to the next. Once you're behind that cover, the ability 
 to lean and fire is extremely useful, as is the ability to raise your weapon and aim using its 
 sights. As you progress through the game you'll be able to upgrade your weapons, earning bigger 
 clips, faster reloads, and secondary firing abilities. You can carry two weapons at a time as well 
 as a pistol, which isn't very powerful but has unlimited ammo. Grenades are often tough to come 
 by, but ammunition is plentiful, as are health packs, which are scattered throughout the levels. 
 It's a good thing, too, because once you start getting hit your health depletes in a hurry.  

 
  While most of Airborne is good, it does have its share of problems. Hit detection is terrible -- it's 
 not uncommon to hit someone with three or four shots before even one registers. Many of the automatic 
 weapons have too much recoil, making them extremely difficult to aim -- a problem not shared by the 
 CPU, who is more than capable of hitting you from across the level regardless of the gun. Your 
 fellow soldiers are sometimes quite useful, but other times they don't do anything at all -- or worse, 
 they stand right in front of you and block your shot. We also fell out of the level a few times, 
 though this was usually when we parachuted someplace the game probably didn't want us to. When 
 all of these problems come together the game can be extremely frustrating, as you're forced to 
 try the same part of a level over and over again in an attempt to find the best way to circumvent 
 the game's sometimes cheap tactics.  

  Unlike the last Medal of Honor, MOH: Airborne has a solid online component. Up to 12 people can 
 hop online and play ranked and unranked matches on half a dozen maps and a few different game types. 
 The action's always fast-paced and for us, at least, lag-free. Interestingly enough, multiplayer 
 is the one area where choosing where you want to parachute into a level actually lives up to the 
 hype. As you descend you can see both friends and foes and, if you're quick enough, can land in 
 areas that are quite advantageous -- like right behind that jerk camping on a rooftop with a sniper 
 rifle.  

           There are lots of different weapons, and they can be upgraded, too.      

  Airborne 
 isn't a great-looking game, but it does run well and the visuals don't hamper the experience. It 
 looks best on the PC thanks to higher quality textures. Outside of a few nice-looking buildings 
 most structures are simple, and look pretty much the same, not only to each other, but every other 
 WWII game out there. There are only a few different types of soldiers and while they aren't very 
 detailed, you can tell one type from the next easily. At least, you can if you're up close. It's 
 tough to tell the good guys from the bad guys when you're far apart, and it's even harder to hit 
 them thanks to a lack of transition animation, meaning they might instantly jump from one position 
 to the next. Weapons look great, but explosions look embarrassingly last-gen. Not only do weapons 
 look nice, but they sound great, too. The rest of the game sounds pretty good as well. You'll hear 
 the familiar orchestral theme from previous MOH games, and there's lots of chatter from both Axis 
 and Allied soldiers.  

  Medal of Honor: Airborne is a game that rewards those who are patient enough to stick with it. 
 The first half of the game is dull and just rehashes the same sort of gameplay you've seen countless 
 times before. But about halfway through, things pick up and gradually get better and better until 
 the last two levels, which are quite intense and a lot of fun to play. The multiplayer isn't anything 
 groundbreaking, but it's quite good and adds some value to an otherwise short game. If you're tired 
 of the genre, Airborne won't do anything to change your mind, but if you're looking to fight for 
 the Allied cause yet again, it's a worthy tour of duty.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (195 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: darth_xavio
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2009 2:27 pm PT
Review:  MOHA is the second game about the 82nd airborne division and its an improvement above the first 
 one. The campaign consist of six lengthily missions of 10 to 15 objectives. The aiming in the game 
 is easy but the large recoil makes rapid shooting difficult. A great feture though is the abilty 
 to look around during the few movies. The jump from the plane does give you the chance to go straight 
 to the enemy. this move gets you killed really fast. The graphics are nice and gives you the sense 
 you looking around in the battlefield. The multiplayer is a nice addition but I was expecting a 
 little more. the campaign goes a little sci fi though when you start to fight super Nazi who can 
 re stand 5 head shots. The game has a polished feel and will keep you going in the single player 
 campaign for about 5 hours or more. With the great campagin and nice polished feel I have to give 
 MOHA a 9.0.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: snover2009
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 7, 2009 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  
  The look of the game has been drastically improved. Weapon and enemy models look good.
  
  Gameplay:
 
  
  Pretty much the same as other Medal of Honor games, works fine for what it is. Kill Nazis, blow 
 up some AA weapons. There are however an elite set of soldiers carrying MG42s that can take more 
 than a single clip of BAR or STG44 ammo before diing. Parachuting starts out fun, but it adds almost 
 nothing. You can land wherever you want to though. Way too short though.
  
  Sound:
  
  Some stuff is bad, but mostly it is pretty good.
  
  Story:
  
  Been there, done that. 
 
  
  Price (2009) :
  
  It is included in the 10th anniversary pack that includes Medal of Honor Allied Assault, 3 expansion 
 packs for Allied Assault, and Medal of Honor Pacific Assault. If that is not a good deal I don't 
 know what is.
  
  Verdict:
  
  If you like WWII, you will like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _diggah_
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 4, 2009 4:49 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing WWII FPS games ever since the first few betas of Day of Defeat emerged and the 
 Medal of Honor series used to stand for a good WWII experience.
  
  Allied Assault was groundbreaking. The Omaha Beach level was the first time I've ever physically 
 ducked while playing a game! However the style of play was superseded by the superb Call of Duty, 
 which got that level of realism and immersion just right. 
  
  Now I've been gone from the PC games scene for over a year now and was keen to try and catch up 
 with what had been released since I last played. I picked up Airborne, partly cos it was cheap 
 but also as it looked like it could be a return to form for the MoH series (given the poor reviews 
 Pacific Assualt recieved) .
  
  There are many reviews about the levels and AI etc of this game so I won't go into that but rather 
 discuss my feelings about this game having now completed it.
  
  Initial feelings were a mix of excitement at the application of parachute drops and disappointment 
 at the arcade style health and ammo drops littered around the battlefield. This I could have forgiven 
 if the plot of the game was at least based on historical fact, however the further the game went 
 in, the more it became apparent this wasn't going to happen.
  
  [SPOILER ALERT] The final level on the Flak Tower was a pure work of fiction. True there was a 
 tower like that, but it was in Berlin (not western Germany as the game would have you believe) 
 and the US wasn't involved it in what-so-ever.
  
  Ok I may be nit-picking but the fact that the game constantly praises the efforts of the veterans 
 seem hollow when they fabricate something so ridiculous. The multiple hit enemies also prove laughable 
 (especially the crazy MG42 wielding Nazi goon which takes several shotgun blasts to the face to 
 kill! - lets not even go into the kickback issues of carrying the 42 nor the game completely ignores 
 any explanation for this super soldier)
  
  The general upshot of all this is that you feel that the game ends up with a cheap and tacky feel, 
 and no amount of extra videos explaining how much effort they went in to record sounds can take 
 this away (indeed this makes it seem even MORE hollow!) .
  
  All in all, I really hope MoH just gives up and dies from this debacle. Either that or have a reinvention 
 as this is pretty poor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vladex00
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 30, 2009 2:34 am PT
Review:  Step into the boots of Boyd Travers, Private First Class of the 82nd Airborne Division and engage 
 in battles throughout Europe. From rocky beginnings in Sicily to war-winning triumphs in Germany, 
 each mission begins behind enemy lines, with an intense and fully interactive airdrop. Your ability 
 to determine your own starting point dramatically changes the way each mission plays out. View 
 the entire operation from the air, and then control your parachute to choose your landing spot. 
 On the ground, gather your senses and assess the terrain. A wide variety of authentic, customizable 
 weapons are at your disposal, each with distinct characteristics. Choose your path in this free 
 roaming FPS environment. The producers sought counsel from numerous expert sources to make certain 
 the game is historically accurate and as true to the WWII Airborne experience as possible.
  
  Start each mission with an airdrop into enemy territory where the landing spot you choose can 
 dramatically change the course of battle. On the ground, tackle enemies and complete objectives 
 in whatever order you chose as your navigate your way through a massive, free-roaming, non-linear 
 FPS environment 
  Fight on the ground or atop roofs, balconies, towers, ruins and natural formations in a variety 
 of environments authentic to the European Theater of War 
  A formidable new AI system delivers unpredictable and intelligent enemies which challenge even 
 your most battle-hardened strategies. 
  Engaging the enemy triggers death animations unique to each and every encounter 
  For the first 
 time, enhance your chosen weapon with authentic, customizable field modifications that affect your 
 marksmanship 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: squirt871
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 1:03 pm PT
Review:  After a long line of disappointing games in the Medal of Honor franchise that just never could 
 recapture the magic successes of Allied Assault, we finally get Medal of Honor: Airborne that combines 
 high presentation values and good, fast-paced fun. While there's definitely some good entertainment 
 value here, the campaign is short, and the multiplayer isn't incredibly deep. Still, it's a good 
 game overall and the best game in the franchise in some time.
  
  Medal of Honor: Airborne takes a different approach to World War II shooters. Instead of starting 
 players out in each linear level on a path where there's no variation, EA LA decided to let us 
 choose where to start each mission by throwing us out of a plane. Once floating in the air, it's 
 a matter of steering the parachute to the best location to start the fight. Where the best location 
 is depends on how you want to play the game, a mechanic that certainly is useful if you want a 
 challenge or find that it's more fun to start out in a certain place on a map. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DistortedGecko
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 20, 2009 10:44 pm PT
Review:  World War 2 games are so overdone nowadays. So it is nice to see a WW2 game that is a bit different 
 from the rest. And Medal of Honor Airborne is that game. 
  The graphics are really nice in this game. I think that the PC version looks a bit better than 
 the 360 version. (with everything maxed out)
  The single player is pretty good. But if there was a down-side to this game, then it would be the 
 missions. I don't know, they just aren't engrossing enough for me to want to keep playing. They 
 are fun, but I lose attention quickly. I really like that you get to paradrop into the battlefield. 
 And you can land anywhere. You don't have to land in the "safe zone" you can land behind enemy 
 lines and surprise them. 
  Multiplayer is the best part of the game. And the only part I really play anymore. The maps are 
 really open. And there are a ton of bombed out houses to snipe from. Of course, this could be bad 
 for some people.
  Overall, I'd say that this is a pretty good game. Not the best, but very good. And the best Medal 
 of Honor game I have played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PerkinsGamerFTW
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor: Airborne is game that follows a United States Airborne soldier named Boyd Travers 
 through the battles in Sicily, Salerno, France, Holland and Germany. The graphics are awesome as 
 hell! The story is cool and the singleplayer is a good size. There are 10 classes of enemies, based 
 on difficulty and danger rating.
  
  At the beginning of the game, theres a tutorial on how to jump. It doesn't matter if you do good 
 on it or not. Unusual to a game, instead of multiplayer, it has a challenge of killing based system 
 in game where you get various attachables such as rifle grenades or increased scope. Even for grenades, 
 there are things such as capacity. The multiplayer is lacking though. With only about 4 players 
 allowed on each team on the PC, and the requirement to be registered in EA Games.
  
  This game is also very innovative. It is the first that I've seen that has a great paratrooping 
 system where you can choose where you land in the entire map. Medal of Honor: Vanguard had something 
 LIKE that but you could only land in small areas or die. Battlefield 1942 with the C-47's was the 
 same I guess, but it depended on where the pilot was flying over. And you could easily get shot 
 down in Battlefield when in MoH: AA it's more of a cinematic expirience. Another thing, the cinematics 
 are awesome, they don't cut to black, so it feels like you're actually a part of what's going on. 
 They use real gun sounds from a shooting range to so it makes the game more realistic. The unital 
 structure is off but I'm a history buff and an ordinary gamer wouldn't notice that.
  
  I give is 8.5 for good singleplayer, nice weapons, very nice enemy system but a lacking multiplayer 
 and innovative techniques. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam3231
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Oh man... I don't even want to get started with this game. It pains me to think about this game 
 because it had the potential to be great, but there are just too many problems leeching on this 
 title from EA that keep it from being anything but forgettable.
  
  The training mission is your first encounter with the single player campaign in airborne. The scene 
 begins with army planes and a background of a sunset sky. I immediately noticed how the game shows 
 off its quality graphics. When I mean quality, I mean they are really fn good. Unfortunately, if 
 you are expecting to run this game smoothly on high settings, you are going to need a BEAST. I 
 can run this game on max settings, 1280 x 800 and average about 15 fps, but if I run it on 800 
 x 600 min settings, I only average about 70 fps. (Nvidia 8600M GT, 4GB Ram) EA botched this game 
 hardcore. Pretty much anytime there's a lot of action on the screen, there is a massive frame rate 
 drop. I've been playing video games since 1992, and I've never seen a frame rate drop so massive 
 and evident in times of action.
  
  As the training mission continues, your first task is to jump out of an airplane and parachute 
 down. As the trainer yells commands at you and the other troops, it's quite apparent that the voice 
 acting is very good. Let that be an indicator for the rest of the game, as I will say throughout 
 the whole game I was quite impressed with the voice acting. Except for I think your fellow soldiers 
 liked the main character, "Boyd Travers" a little too much. Every other word out of their mouth 
 was "Thanks, Travers" or Travers this, Travers that, it's not too annoying though. I'll also add 
 that the music and sound effects were proficient. The music helped convey the mood accurately, 
 and the sounds were realistic.
  
  After you jump out of a plane a few times, the training is over and you begin the real game. The 
 basic premise is basically, a WWII FPS where you drop from an airplane at the beginning of a level. 
 I thought it was quite an original take on a FPS, since you can pretty much choose to start where 
 ever you feel on the level. It's not recommended that you land anywhere but the green zones, but 
 you can occasionally land in enemy territory without dying.
  
  The cut scenes in the plane starting off the level are always well done, giving you an intense 
 mood before the mission even begins. Most of the cut scenes in this game are pretty good, despite 
 the storyline being somewhat underdeveloped. I know I'm saying a lot of good things about this 
 game for giving it a lower score but what truly kills this game is
  
  Gameplay. It's dreadful. After you do your James bond parachute move into the battle, things just 
 go downhill from there. First off the mouse movement in this game is very awkward. If it isn't 
 bad enough that the screen blurs when you look around (on the higher settings) , you can never seem 
 to get your crosshair quite where you want it. It's like your aim is only locked to every other 
 pixel or something, it's the most ridiculous aiming system I've ever seen in a first person shooter. 
 How did ea screw this up? Especially on higher settings it sometimes feels like your mouse movement 
 is delayed, adding to the frustration. I had to lower my mouse sensitivity to the absolute minimum 
 to feel like I had some control over my mouse movement, aiming was easier, but I still could not 
 get the crosshair many times exactly where I wanted it. Eventually though you can overcome this 
 and be at least somewhat precise with your aim. Probably not at the level of many other well made 
 fps games though.
  
  Another gameplay problem is the A. I. Let's start with the friendly A. I. shall we? You know - - 
 the ones that are on our team, or supposed to be. Basically, they step in front of your fire; block 
 your grenades, and generally not the brightest combatants I've ever seen. And the enemy A. I. is 
 not much better. For some reason a gun that would normally have recoil for you suddenly doesn't 
 have any for them, not fair right? Don't worry it balances off, as many times an enemy will take 
 fire (often from behind) and not even turn around and wonder what's shooting him. On top of that, 
 both enemies and allies will often spawn in random areas. I mean okay, perhaps the game designers 
 wanted it to feel more realistic by have more soldiers fight and die and so on for it to seem like 
 a full blown battle. But when I see both enemies and allies appearing in mid air, I'd have to say 
 that ultimately just takes away from the realism of the game. I mean those were things I accepted 
 in goldeneye 64, not a MoH game published in 2007.
  
  The missions in each level are pretty much a joke, all of which can be simplified in 3 different 
 categories consisting of 
  
  A) Go somewhere. 
  B) Kill someone. 
  C) Blow sh*t up. 
  
  I'm dead serious. You go to a place, kill people, or destroy something. That's it. They got 
 real creative in mission design this time around that's for sure. By the way if you don't know 
 how to strap a bomb to something it's the "use" button by default it's the "e" key. I like how 
 the game refers to it as the use button, when they might as well just call it the "use bomb/get 
 supplies" button. There is an absolute minimal interaction with the environment in this game. The 
 only things you can do other than shoot and throw grenades, is pick up guns, get supplies, and 
 strap bombs. But on one level, things get really crazy - - you can push an elevator button. (omg)
 
  
  The unoriginality continues, as all of the weapons have already been seen before in many previous 
 WW2 games. Can I ask why did they try and add some sort of crazy blur focus effect to the sniper 
 scope? When I'm trying to snipe an enemy, the view is never focused properly until several seconds 
 later. Of course this only happens on higher graphical settings, ea actually making the game harder 
 for people using higher graphical settings, giving people a reason to turn down their settings. 
 The game can put together some challenging and interesting fights, but generally repetitive tactics 
 are used throughout the levels. The game pretty much feels like "just another shooter," and that's 
 basically what it is - nothing original about this game other than the fact that you parachute 
 into the battle, which is probably the best part. It was what kept me going to beat this 6 level 
 campaign, the Para drops; they were what kept me interested. 
  
  It really disappoints me to see a game with such great graphics, audio, and cut scenes, fall so 
 short in the gameplay department. If the developers would have taken a little more time on fixing 
 frame rate issues, mission development, and the overall general gameplay, this really had the potential 
 to be a great game.
  
  p. s. The multiplayer is not that great compared to many multiplayer games today, but if your willing 
 to download all the patches, I'd say give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: archerus
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2009 11:41 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor: Airborne is a great game, and given that you can pick it up for quite cheap, the 
 game delivers some serious bang for your buck. By moving toward a start anywhere model, and introducing 
 upgradeable weapon loadouts, Airborne has distanced itself from the very genre it was responsible 
 for creating, the WWII shooter. Many have criticized the ability to drop anywhere by saying that 
 dropping anywhere but a safe zone is suicide, but anyone who has played the game knows that with 
 a bit of practice you can easily drop into the heart of an enemy location and take it over from 
 the inside. Will it be harder than dropping in a zone filled with allies? Sure, but challenging 
 yourself is part of the fun of a game, and the challenge here is perfect.
  
  The graphics are pretty good and the unreal 3 engine allows for gritty environments and a wonderful 
 WWII feel, but there are a few issues with it on the PC. The first is a lack of user customization. 
 Changing the video settings can only be done outside of the game prior to launch and are limited 
 to a few simple categories. The option to make specific changes to certain graphical details, such 
 as the draw distance and the anti-aliasing, the only places where the graphics lack slightly, are 
 pretty standard in PC games, and their omission here is disappointing. 
  
  The sound on the other hand is perfect. The use of surround sound in this game makes all the difference 
 when playing, and if you don't have a 5.1 setup I would suggest playing with headphones, because 
 you are missing out if you don't. The gunfire and explosions sound great, especially the ones that 
 you hear in the distance from your NPC allies. Movement sounds good too, as the sound of your footsteps 
 is dependent upon what your walking on; my personal favourite is the sound of walking through bricks 
 and rubble. How good is it though? I was able to sit inside the factory in one of the multiplayer 
 maps and track my opponents based upon the echo of their footsteps, the sound of the material they 
 were walking on, and which direction it was in, making short work of them when they finally showed 
 their face. That, is amazing sound work.
  
  That brings me to multiplayer. The multiplayer here is interesting. The Axis side always starts 
 on the ground from spawn points while the Allied players start in the air, getting to drop into 
 any location whenever they respawn. This keeps the game interesting for the Axis side as you need 
 to keep an eye on the skies. It doesn't make it any easier for the Allied players either, as you 
 can be shot while in the air, and the Axis players can generally see exactly where you land, so 
 there is a trade off to the freedom of being airborne. With that being said, there isn't a whole 
 lot of change in this department. The maps are great, but the gameplay modes are the same as in 
 previous MoH games. Additionally, the upgrade system that was present in the single player is missing 
 in multiplayer. Servers can choose to give every player access to the fully upgraded weapons or 
 just the default weapons, but there is no option to track stats during a round. It would have been 
 nice to see this done with the multiplayer, and as it stands, this is the biggest let down in the 
 game. The multiplayer is fun, just not as innovative as it could have been.
  
  The bottom line: Great immersive single player gameplay with some fairly standard yet still enjoyable 
 multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilipepperman
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 2, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  i didnt have very high expectations going into Airborne, but for the most part, i was thoroughly 
 surprised. 
  
  Gameplay
  The first five levels of Airborne were a real blast, and were balanced, fun, and adrenaline rushed. 
 My favorite weapon and most deadly by far was the shotgun, and i wont spoil it for you, but if 
 you kick enough butt, there is a really cool upgrade that is very useful later on. Speaking of 
 upgrades, Airborne has a weapon upgrade system that is based on your performance with the weapon 
 you are using. For example. if you get a bunch of headshots with the springfield, then it will 
 upgrade to the first badge, and most of the time that means less recoil or a faster reload for 
 a weapon. if you do better, you will get increased zoom, better damage, etc. It was one of my favortie 
 things about the game, because you didnt know how your weapons would be upgraded, which was pretty 
 cool. When you do well enough with a weapon, it also blurrs the screen and goes into slow motion, 
 while also giving you unlimited ammo and health for the small duration of the time. Overall, the 
 gameplay in Airborne is solid and very fun, up until the last level, which was a NIGHTMARE, and 
 was the only reason i gave this game a "Hard" diffuculty. It seemed as if it went back in time 
 with all the cheap deaths, insanely strong enemies, and bad pathfinding that makes the level a 
 pain. also to note, this game has some times where you will die a LOT just because it uses checkpoint 
 saves and wont let you quicksave, and if you die on a mission, your objectives will stay completed, 
 but the enemies that you killed will respawn , whcih can be quite annoying.
  
  Graphics
  The visuals in Airborne i thought were actually pretty well done, and create a relatively gritty 
 atmosphere, but really needed some anti-aliasing. A lot of the textures looked jagged, and some 
 of the textures in the game were pretty blurry like pipes and stuff. Besides that though, they 
 did some motion blur that looks fantastic and the unreal engine does a great job of reflecting 
 light off of water surfaces. The sound in this game is also one of its high points, and really 
 surprised me. I have a 5.1 system, and you could tell this game was opitmized very well, and i 
 really felt like i was there fighting WWII Nazis. When you walk on a different surface from the 
 ground, like a metal grate or a wood plank, you hear your footsteps going on and off of it, which 
 is very immersive, and the voicework is done pretty well, but nothing that really stands out.
 
  
  Story
  Well, the story is pretty easy to figure out. You are part of the 501st Airborne division fighting 
 Nazis. Not much more to say. its not anything close to BIA story material, but it gives you a reason 
 to keep fighting.
  
  Overall, Airborne is a good game, but the last level just makes it a bit bittersweet, and the game 
 is very short with only like 6 missions, each taking anywhere from 30min-1:30 each. WWII is getting 
 very overused and stale at this point and it would be fun to see someone make this high caliber 
 of a game based on the Korean war, or civil war or something, but please, enough of WWII. Airborne 
 is a fun game, just doesnt do anything that really makes it stand out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drumdude73
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 9:28 pm PT
Review:  Personally, I think this is the best of the Medal of Honor series! Great graphics, great gameplay, 
 and great fun; and for only $10 to boot (bought it at Best Buy for $9.99) , you can't go wrong with 
 this game. 
  
  Graphics-wise, I was truly amazed as to how good the game looks and how well the game runs. I do 
 have a pretty beefy setup, but I have had good hardware in the past with previous MOH games and 
 they didn't seem to run as smooth as this game. 
  
  The gameplay was also terrific. The only annoying thing I found while playing the game is that 
 if you try to stand around and shoot the enemy before entering an area, you will shoot until you 
 run out of bullets. You basically have to storm each area or the enemy just keep coming. 
  
  I am running with a Core 2 Duo E6850 (3 GHz) , 2 GB of memory, and an 8800 GTS 640 MB graphics 
 card. I have the graphics for this game configured at max with a resolution of 1600x1200 and it 
 never skips a beat! Awesome graphics and animation!!
  
  In summary, this game is a must have if you like first person shooters and World War II games! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hiddai
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 20, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  I got this game as a present for my 16 birthday from a friend of mine... but fake one :P
  
  After few problems with installing it, i finally started to play. 
  Already in the beginning 
 you find out this game doesn't really have a plot. Despite your character has a name and he talks 
 a bit in the end of each of every level as a "summary-like" talking - The plot isn't really there...
 
  The game has a one short training mission, which you learn how to use your parachute and to land 
 smoothly (no other necessary trainings such as shooting etc...!!!) , and 6 more missions.
  All the missions are built more or less the same: Each mission has a short briefing cinematic with 
 your squad and the commander tells you about the mission and then you have to pick your weapons 
 (2 rifles and a pistol) . then the mission begins. You always start in the aircraft ready to parachute 
 you can parachute anywhere in a defined boundary. There are always 5 hidden locations you need 
 to find/land in as a bonus along with 2 safe location to land which has ammunition and health. 
 The free parachuting is the main point of the game and it makes the gameplay very none-linear. 
 each time you die you start again from the aircraft. After you complete the first objectives the 
 so-called second part of the level begins which is a new area to be and when this new area is available 
 so when you die you can't start from the aircraft again but you start from your last checkpoint 
 in that area. 
  The game has a lot of weapons from 3 types of grenade to 2 types of Anti-Tank and dozens of rifles 
 from M1 Garand to STG-44 through Thompson and G43. You also has a M1911 Pistol and even a secret 
 one available from level 5. All of these weapons can be upgraded with 3 levels of experience the 
 more you shoot the better the weapon (as Head shots will gain you more experience etc.) for example 
 normal M1 Garand will shoot slowly, but the next level it will have faster reloading and the 3rd 
 level will have the ability to shoot grenades. This feature is probably the best one in the game 
 and the only reason to later play the game again... and even that can sometimes piss you off since 
 the hit detection is terrible!
  And of course if you achieve all the bonuses and complete the game you gain medals as the good 
 old MoH tradition.
  The Graphic in this game is fantastic very realistic and so the Sound effects. Both do the job 
 well.
  Multiplayer is a better success. It's use the strong parts of the single player - the action and 
 create a simple but classic and well done MP mode with loads of action.
  
  This isn't the best MoH we played and this game has very empty & short SP campaign and there's 
 no point to keep playing it again after you finished it one time, except finish upgrading all of 
 your weapons to level 3.
  MP mode is the only reason to keep playing the game but even here, there's not too excitement. 
 But after all this is still a very fun game and if you like the previous MoH there's no reason 
 to skip this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenken2g
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2008 9:14 pm PT
Review:  I just have to say that this game rocks. I know there are a lot of die hard call of duty fans and 
 Call of Duty 2 is a great WWII shooter, but this game is also great in it's own right. 
  
  First of all lets talk about price. It's a total ripoff that you can get this game from gamespot 
 for $9.99. OMG $9.99 that's unbelievable. When I bought this game I couldn't believe the price 
 lol I was looking for the catch.
  
  The gameplay is great slightly different than COD. There is a lean an peak system in this game. 
 When you use the iron sights or scopes you can tilt the left thumb stick to lean to the left or 
 right around cover (can also do this with k&mouse) The post processing is great. It gives you a 
 nice blur when you run or moving very fast. It seems like there is always a target or something 
 to blow up to complete your mission and just when you think you're done lol something else opens 
 up for you to destroy or take control of lol. COD doesn't offer these things.
  
  I like the fact that you constantly upgrade your guns through the single player campaign and you 
 get more points by getting head shots. This is yet again something else COD DOESN'T HAVE. Only 
 in multiplayer you can upgrade your weapons, but it's not by headshots its only by meeting challenges 
 or gaining points. You have to earn upgrades in this game even in the single player.
  
  All in all I would say this game didn't get the score that it should have gotten because of the 
 huge shadow of Call of Duty. This game offers some things that make you say... "Hmmmm, I wonder 
 why they didn't put that in Call of Duty"? Its a great game and it's optimized great for PC. For 
 $9.99 it would be a sin not to purchase this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uyjr
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 26, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  After a long line of disappointing games in the Medal of Honor franchise that just never could 
 recapture the magic successes of Allied Assault, we finally get Medal of Honor: Airborne that combines 
 high presentation values and good, fast-paced fun. While there's definitely some good entertainment 
 value here, the campaign is short, and the multiplayer isn't incredibly deep. Still, it's a good 
 game overall and the best game in the franchise in some time.
  
  Medal of Honor: Airborne takes a different approach to World War II shooters. Instead of starting 
 players out in each linear level on a path where there's no variation, EA LA decided to let us 
 choose where to start each mission by throwing us out of a plane. Once floating in the air, it's 
 a matter of steering the parachute to the best location to start the fight. Where the best location 
 is depends on how you want to play the game, a mechanic that certainly is useful if you want a 
 challenge or find that it's more fun to start out in a certain place on a map. It also provides 
 an opportunity to drop into a new location if the previous one was a little too difficult or even 
 complete one of the five different skill drops (drops in very specific areas) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devnull
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 24, 2008 12:00 am PT
Review:  Could have been the best in the series but in the end one factor does it just ridiculous and tiresome.
 
  
  Having played through Allied Assult, Spearhead and Pacific Assult it was with some anticipation 
 I started to play Airborne, and to begin with I was not disappointed. The airdrop function where 
 you can chose where you want to land and start the missions is brilliant. It increases the replay 
 value and gives you a possibility to test a scenario in many different ways.
  
  The gameplay is intense and the missions are intresting. Maybe your "friends" could be a bit smarter, 
 the mortality rate in you platoon is constantly high.
  
  But then, when you arrive at the two last missions, Electronic Arts ruins the whole gamplay by 
 introducing some sort of bermensch, a sort of SS-soldier on stereoids with black uniform and gasmask 
 wielding a MG42 from his hip. Why? If they'd wanted to make the game more challanging I could mention 
 a 100 better ways of doing it. This monster is like something out of Doom or Half Life and is expected 
 in those games, but what on earth this superman has to do in a WWII game is beyond me.
  
  After killing a couple of them (and yes it's really hard) grew tired of them and quit the game 
 in the middle of the last mission and that's a mission I won't replay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pride_of_Hiigar
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 26, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  Well, First Impression is that the game is stunning and is simply too good. However the real fun 
 of the game is when you play multiplayer. So of the upgrades are ridiculous and sometimes predictable. 
 
  
  Its really competes with all the multiplayer games out there. But was this a necessary change for 
 the Medal of Honor franchise? Na, the fun of old world war games like Medal of Honor are missing 
 from the game, like giving 100 head shots in one mission. Amazing accuracy even when rubbing your 
 belly and holding the sniper at the same time are all missing. Some very irritating issues are 
 the sniper features. The fact that a headshot is actually a test of luck and firing immediately 
 after changing to scope mode is next to impossible because of the depth of field. The target is 
 usually blurred and takes some time for it to clear, but by this time of waiting the enemy would 
 have targeted you by then and shot a few rounds. 
  
  Some tweaks have been made like when you are shot the screen tends to move toward one direction 
 and when this is repeated several times it gets on your nerves, the doesn't happen.
  
  This game is not a typical medal of honor, but more like a WW2 version of battlefield. This is 
 a pity since the Medal of Honor franchise should have taken the advantage of Call of Duty changing 
 to the future. 
  
  Overall this game is a fantastic multiplayer, but does not satisfy a lone gamers fun.
  -! nfinity 
 =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lon3lysnake
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  I am surprise to see gamespot review has given a relatively low score for this game, I think medal 
 of honor airborne deserves a far better rating. I have played the entire MOH series, and I believe 
 airborne is the best medal of honor since allied assault.
  
  As you play as an airborne paratrooper, you really parachute to the battlefield and it's a really 
 fresh and unique feature. You got to decide where you want to land, it's totally up to the player. 
 Different landing zone will affect your mission and the way enemy interact with the player so you 
 can basically play it over and over and you will never play with the same experience.
  
  Graphics are awesome, but again, better graphics means you need better computer hardwares. Nvidia 
 8 series should do just fine, but no high end graphics guarantee, it really depends on the specific 
 model.
  
  Though, I have to add one demerit on this game. The single player needs more maps. There are roughly 
 4-6 maps in total, and they really should expand the campaign.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoringGlorioso
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  I think this is one of the best games ever for the PC. In fact, I love it so much, I own it on 
 my Xbox360 too. Well Medal of honor usually has been a good franchise, especially with its last 
 game pacific assault, which was awesome. My fave feature is the weapons. Theres a whole bunch, 
 each with their own special upgrades. There are weapons like hte scoped springfield rifle, the 
 Tommy Gun, the Sturmgewehr 44, the Panzerschrek, and my favorite the BAR. Being in WW2 and in Europe, 
 you face Italians and Germans. The Italians really are only on the first level, but hey. The enemies 
 and your fellow airborne both chatter alot. But the AI is terrible, your enemies have eyes in the 
 back of their heads.... you just cant sneak up on em! Plus too much recoil. Your enemy on the other 
 hand could snipe you frimp the other side of the map with a Mauser Pistol. Although the levels 
 are fun, but short. 6 levels took me a week, cuz i was doing it on expert. They are long, and at 
 times repetitive. But I still love the game. Specially the multiplay, which is so addictive. The 
 best feature in thw hole game all in all is the jumps. the cutscenes are excellent also. You have 
 to like a good WW2 game to appreciate Airborne. But pretty much a game for any FPS freak. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orcmonkey3000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 5:39 pm PT
Review:  If you're anything like me, the astounding number of World War II games out there annoys you. And 
 the fact that they are all more or less clones of Medal of Honor: Allied Assault annoys you even 
 more. And the fact that none of them are particularly realistic just about pushes you over the 
 brink of insanity, making you resolve never to buy another World War II shooter ever again. Well, 
 apparently someone somewhere in Electronic Arts has gotten the message, because although the lineage 
 of Medal of Honor: Airborne is gratingly obvious, it introduces just enough new innovations to 
 the mix to make it a worthwhile purchase, even if it is another Medal of Honor game.
  
  The first innovation is the Ironsights cover system, which basically forces the player to play 
 smart. Gone are the days of rushing an enemy compound in a hail of MG-40 bullets and living to 
 tell the story. If you do that in this game, you will find yourself dead in a hurry, even on the 
 easiest difficulty setting. That is because the game is designed so that you have to take cover 
 and peek over, around, or under that cover to pick off your enemies as they fire at your position. 
 And your enemies will do the same to you. Enemy AI has received a major boost over the last few 
 games in the MoH saga, making each and every enemy a deadly threat that can (and will) take you 
 out in a hurry given the opportunity. Another exceedingly cool element of enemy AI is its newly 
 added ability to flank your squad, counterattack, and employ advanced tactics in battle. This makes 
 the game feel much more realistic, and enhances the feel of urgency and danger to a level rarely 
 seen in a shooter these days.
  
  Another major innovation in Medal of Honor: Airborne is the fact that each mission takes place 
 in a wide, free-roaming area, with the various objectives scattered around the engagement zone 
 to be completed in any order you wish. And since you start the mission parachuting into the engagement 
 zone, you can land anywhere you want to start the mission, or attempt to land some difficult skill 
 drops to unlock making-of featurettes and trailers for upcoming games. All in all, there is a lot 
 of variety to be found in this game, which spices up the tired MoH formula quite a bit and makes 
 it into a game every bit as innovative as Allied Assault was when it was first released.
  
  Unfortunately, the variety in Airborne also extends to the myriad of bugs that plague the release 
 version of the game. This is the major reason I did not rate the game a full 10.0, since it obviously 
 needed a few more weeks of testing and patching before it was released. It kind of ruins my immersion 
 into the game when I look around and see one of my comrades hovering in midair, arms and legs splayed, 
 with his torso compressed into a flat round disk and his neck longer than both of his legs put 
 together. Yeah, it is that bad, and from a gamer's perspective, totally unacceptable. And yet it 
 happened more than once in the ten hours it took me to complete the game, which brings me to the 
 game's next major flaw -- namely, its extremely short length. While this is somewhat offset by the 
 game's unusually high replay value and excellent multiplayer, it is still annoying to have to pay 
 full retail price for a couple of hours' entertainment if I have no one to play the multiplayer 
 with, which sadly, I don't. Speaking of multiplayer, though, that brings me to my final point. 
 The game released without a dedicated server option for multiplayer. That's right, and what's worse, 
 it took three 1GB+ patches for EA to get it done right. In my opinion, that is unacceptable, especially 
 for a game that will rely on multiplayer for longevity due to its extremely short-lived single-player 
 campaign.
  
  Although Airborne is overall a fun game, it could have been so much more, which is extremely disappointing 
 given what it did do to revive a franchise that had just about exhausted all of its tricks. I recommend 
 it only for those who have a fast, reliable DSL internet connection to download the patches for 
 the game; otherwise, wait for the inevitable classic version to be released a couple years down 
 the road, and hope that EA's next effort for Medal of Honor is a little more refined than this 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MykoStation
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 2, 2008 2:48 am PT
Review:  The game is short and the graphics arent the best. I expected this one to be even a little longer 
 than the past MoH games but it isnt. The game can be passed in a few short hours but what else 
 can you except from MoH?
  The Grapichs could be improved alot also. AI is stupid, very stupid. You shoot the enemy and he 
 just stands there. This has happened few times. Another thing about the AI is that they ALWAYS 
 know where you are. You cant sneak behind them since they have eyes on their backs. The explosions 
 look dull and overall the textures are bad.
  
  Positive side in the game is sound effects which are superb and the physics are ok and the Sandbox 
 feeling you get in the start was a positive suprise although Landing everywhere else than in the 
 green smoke will get you killed... by snipers... who have 100% accuracy... they can kill you from 
 the air.... yeah... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k_ozz
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 1, 2008 2:38 am PT
Review:  Yet another WW II game.. Again some Nazis need to be killed.. Hmm i dont know how many times i 
 have done that.. But i guess this stuff is getting cold and its high time a WW II game releases 
 where u play the Nazis or Hiltler himself.. Well u may wonder if m bugged playing WW II games then 
 why the hell did i buy it.. Well i dint buy it.. Just borrowed it from my friend.. Anywayz bout 
 the game.. As mentioned earlier u need to kill the nazis and ur in the Airborne division ant thus 
 u need to jump off planes to get into the battlefield which is real fun..
  
  I did finish MOH: Airborne but i have no idea whats the story.. When a mission starts u will be 
 asked to jump off a plane to enter the battlefield and u are given a bunch of objectives just finish 
 them and the mission is complete.. There are only 6 missions in this game but nothing to worry 
 each mission will take nearly 90-120 min or even more depending on the difficulty and overall u 
 will be getting a solid 10-14 hrs of single player campaign..
  
  As far as the graphics goes Airborne is a good looking game.. It always runs at a smooth frame 
 rate, if ur system can manage to run it in the first place.. Not that Airborne requires a beefy 
 system.. In order to play it in high settings u will need a mid-high range PC.. U can also play 
 it on low but then u will have to be patient with the slow frame rates.. On the whole Airborne 
 is a good looking game.. But not the lines of Crysis or Gears Of War.. But it does get the job 
 done well..
  
  The controls in Airborne is very responsive.. But hitting the target can be a bit troublesome cos 
 of the recoil other than that the guns feel great, they also sound fantastic.. The guns are also 
 upgradeable.. There are three badges to earn for each gun.. And for each badge achieved u will 
 be given one upgrade for that gun like zoom, or reduced recoil and many more.. There are also many 
 guns to play with and earning the badge for all the guns will require playing the singleplayer 
 campaign atleast thrice.. The voice acting is also good.. As far as the enemy AI goes.. It is good.. 
 But if u jump onto an enemy all of a sudden , say, from behind the enemy will take time to recognise 
 u and shoot at u.. Other than that Ai is good.. This is the first time that Airborne has tried 
 the non-linear gameplay and its been a success to some extent.. And the all new parachute feature 
 is really cool.. U can pick ur landing zone but its getter to land on the safe zones denoted with 
 the green smoke.. Land anywhere else and its death as u will be welcomed by nearly 20 Nazis.. And 
 trust me u don want that.. 
  
  The multiplayer offers 12 player online feature.. One good thing bout the online in Airborne is 
 the lack of lag.. There is no lag at all.. There are bout 12 maps and u can play both ranked and 
 unranked matches.. There are 3 game types.. Team Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch Airborne, and objective. 
 Team Deathmatch is the usual one where the team with highest points win.. Team Deathmatch Airborne 
 is like TD but here the Allies airdrop in and the Axis start on the ground. Objective is where 
 u have to capture and hold three flags on the map. The team to capture all three flags the wins..
 
  
  On the whole MOH: Airborne is worth a try.. In the sense, u have been playing a lot of mordern shooters 
 like COD4 or gears or even crysis then Airborne will be a welcome change.. Try it you wont be dissappointed.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adders11
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2008 8:09 am PT
Review:  Medal Of Honor Airborne is one of the finest games in the series and one of the best World War 
 2 shooters i've ever played. I've always loved the MOH series but this addition really impressed 
 me.
  
  What are the main new features of the game? Well, it's the paradrop of course. At the start of 
 each level you jump out of a plane and have total freedom of where you want to land on the level. 
 You can land wherever the hell you want but of course, some places are safer than others, example, 
 landing further away from an objective is safer than landing closer. You can do your objectives 
 in any order thanks to the free-roaming environments. Finally, this MOH game brings much more freedom 
 to the series which is something I had been waiting for for a long time.
  
  Another new feature are the weapon upgrades. The more you use a certain weapon and the more kills 
 you make with it, you are rewarded with upgrades such as increased accuracy and power, larger magazine 
 holds etc. This is good new feature too. Before you start each mission you are allowed to choose 
 2 weapons (you actually have 3 but you have to take the pistol by default) . Again, this is very 
 useful because you dont have to use what you are given. Once you are playing you can also swap 
 your weapons for the enemies so dont worry about ammo.
  
  What is the combat like? Good fun if you ask me, and sometimes intense. You will see many of your 
 fellow paratroopers around you, fighting and getting killed. The new aiming system is perfect. 
 You hold down mouse button 2 to look down the sights of your gun and use W A S D to stand up, crouch 
 and lean around corners. It's just so much easier now. However, you cant walk or run when aiming. 
 The AI of the enemy is pretty good, nothing special but not bad. Enemies will take cover and climb 
 over obstacles etc. They also like to throw an awful lot of grenades at you. However, the grenade 
 indicator helps you avoid them and you can now kick grenades if they get too close. All the levels 
 are good but the last level in particular was amazing. It features an absolutely huge-sky scraper-size 
 'flak tower' in the middle of a huge ruined city. The game is short but very impressive.
  
  Next, graphics and sound. Visually, this is an impressive game thanks to the Unreal Engine 3 which 
 also powers Gears Of War. The game's textures are nice and gritty and the character models look 
 damn good. The lighting is really nice too. You'll need a fairly powerful PC to see it at it's 
 best but the game does not require ridiculous requirements. The sound is really good like all MOH 
 games with realistic effects and great music.
  
  Finally, the multplayer. The game has a few new maps and re-workings of MOH Allied Assault maps. 
 There are 3 great game-modes that will provide plenty of enjoyment. Airborne Deathmatch is my favourite 
 where Allies parachute in and Axis defend.
  
  Overall this is by far one of the finest games in the MOH series and one of the best WW2 shooters 
 i've ever played. OK, it's short but I enjoyed it loads and the multiplayer is really fun. I recommend 
 it to all WW2 fans and MOH fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceveiled
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  The Medal of Honor franchise has a long and interesting history. Approaching its 10 year anniversary, 
 it has been played on PC's, Macs, handhelds and three generations of consoles. It is the original 
 World War II first person shooter franchise, and with the majority of Medal of Honor games earning 
 above average to high review scores, there's no denying that the franchise is a respectable and 
 successful one. Medal of Honor Airborne is no different, with probably the most solid outing since 
 Medal of Honor: Allied Assault. Everything you'd come to expect of a MoH title is here: tight gameplay, 
 top notch production quality, outstanding audio and intense, raging firefights. 
  
  You play as Private Boyd Travers of the Army's prestigious Parachute Infantry, throwing him out 
 of airplanes and leading him into famous historical battles such as Operation Varsity and Operation 
 Market Garden. Airborne is an action game and doesn't feature much in the way plot or character 
 development, as is typical for the franchise.
  
  The big new feature of MoH Airborne is the ability for the player to choose where to enter each 
 level via parachute entry. While this feature sounds like a great idea it just isn't all that useful. 
 Each level has safe zones marked by green smoke grenades, which are clearly visible on your parachute 
 descent into the battlefield, which you can steer to and safely land by. Areas outside the green 
 zones are held by the enemy so landing too far from a safe zone will get you turned into swiss 
 cheese quickly, unless you're playing on the easiest difficult where you might stand a chance. 
 So while you can land just about anywhere in the battlefield, you'll probably never actually do 
 so, opting to land in any given level's two to four safe zones instead. 
  
  Slowly descending into each new level is fun, however. Jumping out of that C-47 and seeing a sprawling 
 battlefield below you with gutted buildings and anti-aircraft fire piercing the sky is very cool, 
 particularly when parachuting into the Dutch town of Nijmegen during Operation Market Garden. As 
 you slowly descend to the ground in broad daylight, the large war-devastated city stretches out 
 below you, this sort of angelic, dreamy score providing the player with a very peaceful moment 
 of awe. The town is rendered in very high detail and it really is a sight to behold. Moments later 
 you touch the ground and everything does a shocking 180 as all hell breaks loose around you. Without 
 wanting to sound too clich, it really is a surreal moment in gaming.
  
  Gameplay wise Airborne is standard stuff. However, a new cover system has been implemented that 
 has the movement controls changing slightly when using your weapon's iron sights and/or scope. 
 When you're utilizing them the controls change from movement to leaning. For example, say you're 
 standing behind a fence and you want to take out a German in the second story window of a building 
 up ahead. From your cover, aiming down the iron sights and pressing and holding forward will actually 
 make you peek up and over your cover, instead of making you move forward. Releasing it lowers you 
 back down behind cover. Using left or right will make you peek left or right around your cover 
 and, if you're crouched, pressing down will allow you to go prone. It takes a bit of getting used 
 to at first but it works great. As a trade off you can't move and aim down the iron sights or scope 
 simultaneously.
  
  Playing on a higher end PC I was immediately impressed with the graphics from the opening training 
 mission in Africa all the way to the final massive explosion that signals the end of the short, 
 but sweet solo campaign. It's no Crysis (what is?) but it's definitely the best looking MoH game 
 to date, and will likely still look good two years from now. The environments are large and full 
 of detail, featuring crisp textures and realistic lighting. Explosions are chaotic as bright fireballs 
 illuminate your surroundings and smoking shrapnel flies in all directions.
  
  One thing that really sticks out in my mind was the bright glint caused by the sun glaring off 
 enemy sniper scopes in one of the later levels. In said level I could hear rounds whizzing by me 
 and impacting all around me as I traversed the level, but I couldn't determine where they were 
 originating from. Seeking shelter in a building I peeked out a window (using the new cover system) 
 and scanned the upper parts of the level, looking for places that might make a good sniping spot. 
 Spying a bright glint from inside a control tower I took aim with my own scoped rifle I was able 
 to neutralize the threat, thanks to the glint giving away the position of the German sniper. It's 
 a nice feature that allows the game to have cleverly hidden snipers without the frustration of 
 having to sacrifice some of your health to try and locate a sniper's muzzle flash.
  
  The sound effects and music in this game are, of course, extremely well done. The music (composed 
 by Michael Giacchino of Medal of Honor fame) is soft and subtle when you're not in combat, and 
 becomes louder and more frantic as the pacing escalates into a full blown firefight. It's safe 
 to say that without the musical score this game would not be as immersive as it is. If you've played 
 past Medal of Honor games you will recognize a few of the trademark Medal of Honor songs.
  
  In the sound effects department the player will be treated to earthshaking explosions, some 
 very realistic bullet ricochet effects, the clinking of spent shell casings hitting the ground 
 and every other audio effect that you'd come to expect from a World War II shooter. The constant 
 communicative chatter of your fellow soldiers keeps you informed during the game's many chaotic 
 battles, and the shouts and taunts of your foes really immerse you in the fight. The only complaint 
 I can think of is the volume of gun fire seems a bit too soft. While I understand that in-game 
 guns shouldn't be as loud as their real counterparts, I like my guns to be at least a little on 
 the loud side. Other than that all the guns in the game sound great, from the menacing bark of 
 an MG42 to the metallic PING of a spent M1 Garand clip being ejected from the breach.
  
  A lot of people complain about how all WW II shooters feature the same old boring weapons. Medal 
 of Honor Airborne tries to remedy this gripe with a new upgradable weapons feature. Basically the 
 more kills you get with any weapon, the more experience you get with it until you unlock an enhancement 
 which permanently upgrades that weapon. For example the Thompson submachine gun, once fully upgraded, 
 will feature a forward vertical grip for added stability, a muzzle compensator for less muzzle 
 climb during long bursts and a drum magazine for added ammo capacity. It's a neat feature at first 
 until you realize that a lot of the weapons share the same upgrades, such as the coupling of two 
 magazines to dramatically decrease reload times, or upgraded magazines that hold more rounds. Still, 
 there are some nice surprises such as the third upgrade for the German pistol which is just badass. 
 The weapon upgrades actually effect the appearances of the guns and, sometimes, the reloading animations. 
 So when you get the double magazines for the Sturmgewer 44 you'll actually see the second magazine 
 coupled to the one currently loaded, and the reload animation changes to reflect this. There are 
 only three upgrades per weapon and it would've been nice to have a couple more but overall it's 
 a much welcomed addition.
  
  I played through the game twice and noticed a few bugs and minor annoyances. Killing an enemy would 
 sometimes cause their body to clip part of the environment in such a way that it would twitch and 
 bounce around, stretching and contorting comically. At one point I shot a German standing in a 
 window, who then slumped forward and started to fall through the window. Instead of falling out 
 he got stuck on the ledge and began dangling and twitching, all the while one of his arms stretching 
 to about five times its normal length. Weird.
  
  Friendly AI units will frequently run right in front of you when you're firing which is just dumb 
 and unforgivable in both video games and real life. Luckily it's impossible to kill your guys (probably 
 because the developers couldn't fix the AI pathing) , but it's still an annoyance. Hand grenades 
 are frustratingly bouncy and hard to place accurately. When will games let the player choose to 
 bowl grenades along the ground as opposed to chucking them like baseballs 100% of the time? 
  
  WW II was fought in so many places and countries, so why do Medal of Honor games keep revisiting 
 the same scenarios? Why are we battling on the Nijmegen bridge again when this same landmark was 
 featured in another Medal of Honor game (Frontline) ? And yes, believe it or not, there is another 
 level in Airborne which features one of the D-Day beach landings. Really?!
  
  Finally, what's up with the super Nazi enemy? I realize that it's challenging to have a wide variety 
 of enemies in a setting where the only possible enemy can be Axis soldiers, but that doesn't make 
 it okay to create gas mask wearing super Germans who fire heavy machine guns from the hip Rambo 
 style, while being able to withstand 40 bullets before dying. Wasn't Medal of Honor always about 
 being historically accurate? Speaking of historical inaccuracies, why did the Germans on the D-Day 
 beach level have Sturmgewer 44's? The Germans defending that coast did not carry this rifle. 
 
  
  The above problems don't take too much away from the game and hardcore WW II shooter fans and MoH 
 diehards alike will definitely want to pick this one up. I found it brand new for $19.99 so the 
 fact that I beat it in two sessions wasn't too bad, but if you can't find it for that price I'd 
 highly recommend just renting it. I didn't get a chance to try out any of the multiplayer modes 
 but I don't imagine it would enhance the score or take away from it at all. I'm guessing its probably 
 fun for a few hours but nothing worth coming back to over a long period of time like Call of Duty 
 4's fantastic multiplayer. All in all, Medal of Honor Airborne is a solid, fun shooter and a worthy 
 addition to your MoH collection at the right price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IvanTarutin
Rating: 10
Date: May 28, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  The game itself is quite simple, so you won't have to spend days playing it. The best of it is: 
 control of parachute and weapon upgrading. Graphics are quite impressive, sounds are perfect, game-play 
 is extremely good. The game has missions that have never been used before in other games. The controls 
 are simple, i had no problems. Multiplayer is something that you'll want to play in again and again. 
 The bad thing is: it is short, but this 6 missions are special, each of them is different, different 
 enemies, different objectives, different places of landing, different weapons. Playing it is like 
 being in war, war with Nazism. And in this game your buddies are really helping you to fight through 
 to object's location. And bonuses are quiet good too, but you can get them all at EA or You Tube. If 
 you'll buy it, and if you are a true gamer, you wont regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrashmaster
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 20, 2008 12:49 am PT
Review:  This game could have very easily been much better. The paratrooping into the levels is easily the 
 best thing about this buggy game. This games levels are good but crappy enemies and the buggy as 
 hell gameplay take out the WW2 immersion very quickly. The fact that the game is very open to how 
 you can go about the levels give this game a definate plus and is in the end really what saved 
 the game from being a total failure.
  
  GRAPHICS: 8
  A good amount of detail was inputted into the game and it looks nice. I would have rated it higher 
 but the lack of any movable or destructible items (besides the crappy tanks) took it down. There 
 was also the lack of blood or decapitation, only the ragdolls being sent through the air (badly) . 
 Not to sound morbid or anything but when I shoot a Nazi in the face I want to at least see some 
 blood splatter somewhere. 
  
  CONTROLS: 9
  I had no problem with the controls, they were very simple and can't really see how they would need 
 to be much different from what they were. I wasslightly dissapointed however that you can't change 
 the crouch to a click and release instead of a toggle.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 5
  The open and well designed levels are the real bread and butter of the game here. The weapon upgrade 
 feature was also night, but could have been better easily. All to often however did I clear out 
 a room and move in, only to have more Nazis spawn in the room RIGHT NEXT TO ME. After killing about 
 5 or 6 I would finally be forced to flee and find another path to take.
  
  SOUND: 7
  Nice, but nothing ground breaking.
  
  STORY: 7
  Generic WW2 stuff, not much to it. I liked 
 the briefing in the tent with the slideshow but didn't like that you couldn't skip when you go 
 to replay a level.
  
  MULTIPLAYER: 3
  Weaksauce. There is barely anybody playing online and for good reason. All that people really do 
 on this game is snipe because the maps are so big and open, it is very slow paced and pretty boring. 
 Stick with the campaign.
  
  FINAL: 6.5
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dib9394
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 23, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  Got the game two days ago and I have to say: Pretty sweet. The main part of the gameplay is falling 
 off a cargo plane and using a parachute to land in different zones. You can get butchered landings 
 if you don't land successfully and grease landings if you land successfully. If you see green zones 
 they're basically safe. If you land outside the safe zones, it will most likely mean death. When 
 it comes before you parachute down into the zones, it gets repetitive but, however, comes with 
 different approaches of what's happening and makes things intense.
  
  The game has alot of intense action it can give you for your enjoyment like most war games. Mostly 
 you will have to find a weak point of your enemy's cover fighting against your allies' cover or 
 your gonna have to take cover in your allies' side and shoot against the enemy's weakness, by a 
 weapon of choice. The aiming is very tough against enemies due to poor hit detection.
  
  Most of the enemies can have cut scenes to show how very tough they are, for you to fight, which 
 makes it challenging to survive the intenseness. From default soldiers to minigun officers. First 
 it gets easy but now it gets far difficult, but it's still basic challenge.
  
  The new upgrade system has became a real treat to the game. The upgrading is the real thing for 
 us to use the repeat value over and over again until you get all the upgrades of the game.
  
  The game suffers technical problems, mostly on weird ragdolls, which fly very far or get get 
 suddenly stretched, and etc...
  
  The graphics in the game are great with all those post-processing effects and texture and model 
 quality. Sometimes it's actually part of the technical problem list.
  
  So this brings me to my point, the game can be very hard and can have those technical problems, 
 but your going to have to fulfill your parachuting duties in this great game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thenewau25
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  the game is immersive like the previous pc import pacific assault it uses the same engine and ideas 
 like cool all time mazing music action but unlike mohpa moha uses more action than dramatic story 
 the games sucks you inside the idea of jumping out of an airopalne and everytime you do is a damn 
 new one this is propably one of the mos non linear fps unlike cod everytyme you jump you land a 
 t a fifferent point and you do the same things BUT you jsut dont know it the enemies you face are 
 posisitionied diferently and it looks different so you play those amazzing levels again and again, 
 thae graphs are great looking especially the post proccesing effect is pretty cool but no antialiasing 
 support so try using your video card properties the music and the voice acting is amazing especially 
 those speeches, travers you fight with us see those guys.. those are germans unlike the eye ties 
 they know how to fight ! but the weapons ounds kinda suck but hey the designerts exaplain that 
 they capture the sounds and there are real so its ok, in slow mo they sound cool. slow mo, well 
 ill explain this by a fighting momnet you hold down right click to aim here i got to say aiming 
 is kinda chunky like gamespot said but try lowering the mouse sensivity also by pressing left and 
 right you can lean left and right and up and down to use cover pretty cool in wii. in the beggining 
 you get italians which are easy but then different types of germans especially the last ones the 
 ones with rocket launchers and the elite machinegunners that need 3 shots to the head with a shotgun 
 or a sniper to die, HEY IS THIS WOLFENSTEIN? anyway so the comabt is immersive grenades to that 
 you can kick them and it givea a different idea to the game also the aiming relies in how high 
 and low you aim and if you kill enough your weapon matter feels up and you get upgrades and slow 
 mo for a few seconds, and now the bad points sometimes enemies seem to accuarate and ragdoll physics 
 get messed up also in meele fight jerries always attack first kinda low budget and tanks take many 
 shots while you dont so apply the patch first to fix some issues also the lead ai designer expalins 
 how ai is using enviroment to interact here i got to say that ai sucks and this guy sucks why? 
 i am trying to snipe a guy out that takes cover and jumps ou and behind coveragain and again and 
 again and doesnt stand still, undeciable ai also the ai will completly ignore and shoot your allies 
 whil; e you TRY to hit them or will spot you and turn right away and #$%#$ up also somedoy expalin 
 the fact that an elite officer ran at me position and keep moving pass right me take cover at a 
 bock that was behind me and he took cover by the side that i was because my allies we a little 
 further behind me, now wait a minute this guy was not one of us? lol so i guess ai suck but thy 
 dont run around like star wars or cryisis and unlke timesift and crysis they doo get killed by 
 gunshots, and now a conlusison if you look at yourself while you palying you ll see great detail, 
 so moha is a great game and very immersive but gets killed by its minor issues and bugs -buggy 
 ai and short campaign
  
  "we re goin down there.... into the trenches?"
  
  "OFCOURSE We are we re AIRBORNE...." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ishoturface
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  i was expecting something better. ea game makers have made way to many WWII games. anyway on to 
 the game. the game starts out in italy unlike most other WWII games and you make your way around 
 europe all the way to d-day and other battle sites. the single player is short as most of ea games 
 WWII shooters are but it makes it up with some awsome missions .the weapons are nice and sound 
 pretty good and look good to. the upgrades for the guns can be hard to get sometimes you will have 
 to go through the campaign again to get them all. over all it is worth it to get all the upgrades 
 because you might want to do some more missions you did not get a good score on and it makes it 
 a lot easier to get past the missions. onto the multiplayer not many people play the pc version 
 online so you would be better off getting it for the 360 or ps3. but if you can find a game with 
 quite a few players you can have a great time with some hardcore action. overall if you want this 
 game get it for a console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airsoftmanic
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  now just as a little thought, the medal of honour series has now officially went on longer than 
 the ACTUAL world war 2.
  
  now onto the game. the graphics are above average for the time and because its just another WW2 
 FPS that puts it below an 8 already. 
  the open battles are a good idea though, being able to parachute where ever you want to go but 
 there are only three types of landing zones. the good safe ones with lots of ammo, the ones far 
 off in an irrelevant corner of the map and the other is pretty much a one way ticket to the pearly 
 gates. the AI seems to be pinpoint accurate and hit you mostly 95% of the time but it does nothing 
 for you as i swear the hit boxes are actually smaller than model used.
  the single player campaign is very short and be completed within 6 hours or five years if you insist 
 on the hardest difficulty first time through.
  the weapons are the only good point as they can be upgraded but you only really use the MP40 and 
 one of the semi-auto rifles (gweher for me) and all the other weapons are pretty much blighted 
 by obsurd recoil that would only be possible with 20mm shells. 
  
  overall the single player is compitant but is in no way realistic (im sure there werent an elite 
 bunch of stormtroopers that wielded MG42s that had bullet proof gas masks and im very sure that 
 the flakturm was only 50m high and not higher than the effiel tower which guns that rival that 
 of the death star's.
  the multiplayer is dead, enough said there, the last time i looked before selling the game there 
 were a total of 54 players total online, compare that to the 10,000+ people who were on chromehounds 
 at the same time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minkis18
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 31, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  this game is a lot like call of duty 2. you go into the war, take out objectives, yadda yadda yadda. 
 it's only got a few single player missions, but they are fairly long with scripted sequences. for 
 instance, in the first mission once you complete the primary objectives you are instructed to meet 
 in the amphitheater. part of these scripted sequences i believe is so they can put you in a hot 
 situation and not give you the opportunity to have already killed all the enemies. however, this 
 works two ways. upon completing objectives, certain groups of Nazis spawn, and in some cases also 
 despawn. so be careful about how creative you get about completing an objective, because you might 
 have a squad of enemies around you in a few seconds. also in the first mission after finding the 
 sniper team, if you take the back entrance into the mansion all the enemies in the front will disappear 
 and in market garden, completing certain objectives spawns groups of soldiers in places that you 
 may have already cleared, or the enemies won't spawn at all until you get within a certain distance 
 of the objective. 
  
  the weapon 'experience' system is fun, but it really doesn't add much to the gameplay. also you 
 may get stuck at 99% experience on a weapon, and have to start a new level to get that last tick. 
 
  
  another flaw is that cover like walls, especially partially destroyed walls, may have collision 
 areas that extend beyond the visible wall. this is really frustrating when firing that 'perfect' 
 headshot only to find out that there's an invisible wall in the way. 
  
  also beware, the game is made by EA, and as such it's prone to problems. there are 3 patches to 
 date, and many people have trouble patching the game and those that do succeed just have more problems! 
 
  
  the AI is fairly good, they won't flank you or anything but they are very obsessed with using cover. 
 also if you throw them a grenade they will instantly run from it, meaning that you have to be good 
 at 'cooking off' the grenade if you want any success with them. 
  
  the game is fun, and it is an interesting idea using the air drop entrance, but it is far from 
 being game of the year. the game needs a major overhaul to fix terrain and hit detection, but otherwise 
 it is quite enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrizzlyJim
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 27, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Ok, you can have this game. Terrific graphics like former MOH games, but the jumps are annoying 
 as hell and I'm sick and tired of it. WHY do you damned game designers do this? You think I want 
 to jump again and again and again??? Well Duh! I don't. It's one thing to get shot because I can't 
 change guns fast enough or I do something dumb and get killed. Or I shoot a nazi in the head and 
 he turns around and still kills me. But c'mon! Start where I ended! Let me SAVE the damned game 
 in spots I chose! This has ruined countless games before and now, you do it! I'm very, very disappointed. 
 I still have my MOH and COD games because they're terrific games and you can save anywhere you 
 want and not have to start over all the way at the beginning again. God, what is with you people??? 
 Don't you ever listen???? I'd give the game a 6.0 rating because of the graphics. They're excellent, 
 I'll give you that. But the missions are confusing and I don't like the controls on this one either. 
 You can't lay down flat and you end up being stuck out in the open and a clear target to the enemy... 
 Sorry, this game just doesn't make it in the same class as your previous games. Don't waste your 
 money folks. Wait for a used game and you'll get your money's worth. I can't play this game too 
 long because it just gets frustrating. Mostly because every time you get killed, you start the 
 jump again from the beginning. This sucks, sorry. But it's true. Yes, the gunshot victims look 
 cool when you blast them. But, I have trouble trying to aim because the reticle is way too damned 
 big when I'm aiming at a target ten feet away. Why is that? I can barely see the thing! So I don't 
 know if I'm actually aiming at the guy or the box he's standing next to! Gimme a break already. 
 You guys are better than that. Sigh... I'm just disgusted with it. I'll probably wait a couple 
 days and try again. Then get frustrated and wait another 3-4 days... Bad, bad, bad game... Sorry. 
 GrizzlyJim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooyas
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 22, 2008 6:54 am PT
Review:  If you played many WW2 games then you will not find something really special about this one. I 
 just mark the points which are different than the other WW2 games. In MOH: Airborne you spawn to 
 the battlefield from the sky jumping from the plane with parachutes. You should land on a safe 
 places otherwise the enemy gunfire will cook you. There are also bonuses for jumping in to special 
 locations which you will be instructed throughout the game. The firearms are the traditional weapons 
 of 1940's. There is a slight difference. You gain weapon enchantment by shooting the enemy. For 
 example if you hit some of the enemies you gain a grenade luncher upgrade for your weapons. You 
 have different types of grenades; frag, stick, gammon. These grenades along with your weapons will 
 lead you though the level. The campaign has 6 missions but each mission takes more than hour to 
 complete so you have plenty of time to finish the campaign. The rest is the same as the other games. 
 It worths a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KLN2002
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 17, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Airborne is the third MOH game to be released on the PC. And it looks to recapture 
 the position of best World War 2 first person shooter form Call of Duty. Unfortunately Airborne 
 fails to accomplish any significant improvements to the WW2 shooter genre.
  
  Airborne takes the standard WW2 first person formula and spins it 360 degrees. The premise of the 
 game is that you are a paratrooper and as such you parachute into each level. This does add some 
 cinematic quality to the game at the beginning of each level. It does not add much to the overall 
 experience to a level. The game allows the player to choose the order in which players approach 
 objective, but since you will still be accomplishing the same objectives in each play through it 
 doesn't help the lasting appeal of single player. There are also 2-3 safe zones to land in each 
 level, so you tend to approach each objective from the same direction every time. 
  
  The Medal of Honor series throws its historical authenticity out of the window in the last two 
 levels of this game. The mini-gun wielding gas mask wearing Nazis look like they were ripped out 
 of Wolfenstine, as does the final level fortress. Although these levels are fun, but it was nothing 
 like what Medal of Honor had been known for. 
  
  The guns in the game are your standard assortment of wartime weaponry that every one that's played 
 Allied Assault or Call of Duty should be familiar with. The notable change to the weapons is this 
 game, is that it rewards you for performing well with the weapons. As you gain kills with a specific 
 gun, there is a progress bar that fills, and you achieve a new upgrade for the weapon, either a 
 scope, large magazine or other performance improvement. 
  
  I was not overly impressed with Airborne, it was an improvement over Pacific Assault, but the game 
 can't compete with Call of Duty 2. Ultimately you should only purchase Airborne if you are into 
 WW2FPS, otherwise there isn't much reason.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: katana18
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 9, 2008 12:11 am PT
Review:  Contrary to Gamespot, I think the first few single player levels are what makes MoH: Airborne stand 
 out...
  
  If I you asked me who is the most unkillable super-uber hero to ever exist in the world of PC gaming, 
 I would have described a nano-suit to you.
  
  However, after giving Airborne a full play-through on the single player, I find the nano-suit, 
 hyper Crysis man to be a weakling compared to Travis Boyd.
  
  You step into the shoes of Travis to get your first taste of jumping out of an airplane above AA 
 guns, snipers, Tiger tanks, and Hitler knows what else. While there isn't much in the multiplayer 
 that truly stands out above Call of Duty 4, it's worth dabbling into for awhile, just to kill time.
 
  
  But my focus here is the single player campaign. We have a total of 6 missions with multiple objectives. 
 True to their word, the developers have given you much freedom in choosing your dropzone, even 
 if in the middle of a whole platoon enemies. Plus, you get to roam about the level picking the 
 objectives you want to complete first. All this is good and all, but not all that impressive once 
 you get around to doing the objectives.
  
  What's wrong, you ask? Well, the levels you play can vary from interesting to downright boring 
 at times. For instance, corridor after corridor of enemies are NOT the games strong side. Roughly 
 40% of the game puts you indoors and forces you to hide behind crates and throw grenades to kill 
 your enemies. This takes away the freedom, and really wrecks the games otherwise, reasonably high 
 score.
  
  But when it gets good, like in the first half of the game that puts you outdoors and makes you 
 think on your feet, you can't help but feel rewarded when you just downed 20 nazis from above.
 
  
  The most amazing part of one level I played was dropping on top of a church roof, and picking off 
 enemies while dodging their fire & a tank. This was followed by dropping down into the fight, and 
 running around the great outdoors. Additionally, this is a game that you really shouldn't take 
 seriously due to the fact that it introduces superhero soldiers, war machines from Hitler's wet 
 dreams, and the character you play can sprint indefinitely and stand more bullets than a wall.
 
  
  One thing I never quite understood was how to get a perfect landing. All I've ever got were botched 
 landings. But hey, this is a fun game overall, and worth a try. If you're on a tight budget, or 
 are shopping around however, please do buy The Orange Box, or Call of Duty 4 before you own this.
 
  
  Finally, a point to note is that the controls and interface are somewhat foreign. So, it's worth 
 trying it before you buy to get the hang of it first. Oh, and the Unreal Engine 3 used here is 
 quite underpowered. I managed to get 70-80 fps with a 8800GTS 320MB (not the G92) , so don't expect 
 eye candy that will blow you away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomasp94
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Air born is a great game, this is the first Medal of Honor game I have played, but I love it.
 
  
  The graphics are excellent, the sound and game play are top notch. You have lots of weapons to 
 choose from, all of which will become modded for better accuracy and efficiency the more you use 
 it. And there is nothing better than hearing the PING! of an M1 rifle when the cartridge ejects. 
 The game it's self is VERY stable, it didn't crash once on me. I ran the graphics on almost all 
 high settings on my Gen4 Dell (Pentium 4 3.20GHz HT, 4GB 800mhz ram, Nvidia 8600GTS oc'd) .
  
  This game can be quite challenging as well, the computer AI will move, duck, and sneak up on 
 you. MG nests can be quite a challenge to get around, which makes this game great, because in real 
 life, you can just run around an MG and survive. The maps are well detailed, and there is a huge 
 variety of guns and grenades.
  
  The only big downfall of this game is how short it is. If you become immersed in this game, like 
 I did, it will be over quick. Sure there is a multiplayer game, but still, they could have at least 
 doubled the number of missions in this game. 
  
  I have not played the multiplayer game yet, so I can't comment on it. But the single player campaign 
 is great, and I would recommend this to any FPS or WW2 buff. Now go play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viper251
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 3, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  Well. Lets get the good things about the game out of the way.
  
  -It's a cool take of what it would be like being an airborne soldier.
  -Next to amazing graphics
 
  -Awesome upgradeable weapons feature
  -You get to shoot guns!
  
  Bad things. 
  
  -Really bad hit boxes.
  -It gets rather difficult at times, and frustrating when doing it over 
 and over.
  -Somehow as soon as you show a inch of your body, you get annihilated 
  -Your team mates AI equal to the apes we evolved from. They aren't even good for flak!
  -For 
 some reason, you only get parachuted in with 2-5 team mates, yet there are 20+ planes, and a lot 
 of parachutes!
  - You need bionic cyber vision to get some people.
  -they lied about the awesome parachute feature, 'cause you land anywhere other than the green smoke, 
 you get annihilated by Germans.
  -NO HISTORICAL ACCURACY.... RAAAARRGGHH. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anti18
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  After the release of Medal of Honor Allied Assault, the Medal of Honor series has slowly gone down 
 hill. However, Medal of Honor Airborne shows small signs of the series rejuvenating itself. Airborne 
 is the second Medal of Honor game (Vanguard) that lets you begin a mission by jumping out of an 
 airplane into the battle. While in concept, it sounds like a great idea, it really has minimal 
 impact on the mission. Unless you land in the safe zone designated by green smoke, you will likely 
 be killed shortly after landing. Once you are on the ground you will find the combat to be quite 
 bulky and unpolished. Enemy AI is lacking, and the hit detection has a few holes in it. Graphically 
 the game is above average, but don't expect to play it on high settings without a very good rig. 
 I was able to play comfortably at medium settings (E6600+, 2 GB RAM, 7900GS 1024x768) The sound 
 is good, as all guns have their own disticnt noise, and battlefield chatter is usually present. 
 Multiplayer, while fun, is not very deep, and not bound to replace Counter Strike or Battlefield 
 any time soon. The single player campaign is short, only includes 6 missions, and can be beat in 
 4-5 hours, and there is little reason for another play through. In conclusion Medal of Honor Airborne 
 is a small step in the right direction for the franchise, however with so many better first person 
 shooters available, or soon to be available, it falls well short of a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 5:50 am PT
Review:  WW2 shooter games are total addiction. I am fond of this genre as it simulates real places and 
 real wars and real weapons. True that most of the WW2 wars (like Normandy landing) have been already 
 played as video games. But a good game comes with a fresh perspective, fresh graphical presentation 
 and a fresh presentation. I don't play games to be awed by the newness of a technology first, but 
 to be entertained first. Medal of Honor Airborne did this very well.
  There are 10 levels of missions in this game. The new approach to this game is that you get to 
 play as an airborne soldier. This puts you right in the middle of an action from the beginning. 
 Once you are in the battle, you play it like any other WW2 shooter games. However, the game also 
 offers you bonus arms and ammo depending on how well you played it. Plus, the soldier carries larger 
 number of realistic weapons which include two types of guns, a pistol and different types of grenades 
 (if available in the level) . One of the grenades are anti-tank and its really fun to throw them 
 on a crowd of enemies to see them fly out in different directions when it explodes.
  The first missions are actually too easy. Plus, the health system is too friendly (it has four 
 tier bar. so if you are shot till you have half a tier is left -- it automatically goes up to 1 
 tier if you have survived the shots) . This is why, the game feels like its over too early (but 
 not too early) . But missions become quite interesting from level 7-- when you tend to die repeatedly 
 before you reach certain check-points to have the game saved. 
  All of the missions have an openness approach. You can start from anywhere when you jump off your 
 aircraft on to a troubled zone. So instead of doing A, B, C objectives, you can do C, A, B and proceed 
 on. Its the last objective that counts in completing each mission. The graphics and the audio are 
 top notch. Above all, the whole game is very much addictive. It shows that WW2 is not yet outdated 
 in gaming. A good game is always a good game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad_simon_000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Medal Of Honor: Airborne
  PC
  
  Medal Of Honor: Airborne is the best in the series with lovely graphics, fun online game and a 
 challeging campaign mode. In campaign you will play as private Boyd Travers of the first Airborne 
 Division and will have go through six challeging levels. The first thing you well see is you jump 
 out the plane at the begining of every misson this gives the player a big advantage being able 
 to choose where you land so you can land in the middle of a fire fight (well you have to stuipd 
 to do that in first place) or head stright to your objective. Another thing about parachuting is 
 how you land, so if you land badly you will take longer to get you weapons and if you land correct 
 you get into action much quicker. Other things in campaign like being able to land on the floor 
 tops and snipe your enemies, petty much parachute is the bigest feature to this game.
  
  Weapons in this game have a new feature upgrading which makes kill alot more rewarding, The only 
 bad thing is if you die you will jump back to the stats you had at the last checkponit. Another 
 feature is online which I have play alot of, Online is smooth and there no differents between campaign 
 and online you will still jump form a plane in to action plus the online maps are form the campiagn 
 mode so you know them well. Talking with friend online is hard I admint but use should just use 
 Xfire. You don't need to of had play the other Medal Of Honors its a completely different story 
 to the others the only thing you need to know is history.
  
  Overall Medal Of Honor is a great game for people who are new the series but fan should fell right 
 at home with Airborne. The level are long and chlleging. The online play is fun and you will sit 
 at your PC until you have kill everyone. I would high recommend this game to people who love first 
 person shooter and set in World War II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greatbigmouth
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 18, 2008 10:14 am PT
Review:  My first looks at Medal of Honor: Airborne didn't exactly sweep me off my feet. The graphics aren't 
 terrible, but it's not up to today's standards either. I feel as though I've played this game over 
 and over again, with so many of them competing in this genre. Explosions look like those of previous 
 generation games, and the overall texture quality isn't very appealing. 
  
  The gameplay is a bit boring and doesn't feature any unique surprises or storyline. It's mostly 
 the same as any other WWII shooter I've played - lots of bad guys, lots of guns, lots of "arcade" 
 feeling. It is extremely difficult to get an accurate shot, since your guns have a rather large 
 recoil and the aiming marker isn't exactly small. However, some players might find this more challenging. 
 
  
  I enjoyed the background music while playing. The orchestral music makes you feel as though you 
 are really in the 1940's. A good soundtrack can influence the overall gaming experience. MOH: Airborne 
 did a good job with it. 
  
  The game will run fine on any medium-end PC, since the graphics aren't that good looking. Textures 
 appear jagged even with my graphics card's default AA turned on. 
  
  The AI in this game looks buggy. Sometimes when you shoot an enemy trooper, he will fly over to 
 the other side of the screen, and make a few back flips while at it. Animations aren't very good 
 either. 
  
  Generally, MOH: Airborne isn't a bad game, but it's not good either. Comparing this to other war-based 
 shooters such as Call of Duty 4, it's not even a patch. It's not worth buying in my opinion, but 
 if you fancy WWII shooters and would like to add the latest one to your collection, go for it. 
 You might just find some joy amidst all the bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pseudodog07
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 11, 2008 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Graphics - I think they are very nice, up to date, although there are some bugs with stretchy bodies 
 that are quite odd.
  
  Gameplay - The gun upgrade system is interesting and fun to try. The sandbox idea is good too, 
 but is done so much better in games like Bioshock and Stalker. A few way too tough enemy sniper 
 missions detract from the game flow. Crouch leaning, zoom lean and move system is a little awkward 
 and hard to get used to. Other than that, it's a fun shooter to play.
  
  Overall - MOHA is worthy play through for fans of WWII or shooters in general. Finding all the 
 drop points and using different guns is fun, but the game almost begs too much to be replayed. 
 It's good, but not quite that good to demand so much replay. I would actually put the singleplayer 
 not much worse than COD4 singleplayer, but since it's probably even shorter and the multiplayer 
 is vacant in comparison knocks it down a few points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcunning
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  I was a very big MOH fan. So far, I have every MOH game for PC. I waited with great expectation 
 when MOHPA came out. Then EALA fell on it's face with that abysmal "flyboys" level. In the mean 
 time, I watched one console game come out after another, anxiously waiting for another FPS to be 
 released for the PC.
  
  However, I spent that time playing and replaying the COD series of games. IMHO, those are very 
 well done. So when MOH Airborne was announced, I had great expectations. After it was released, 
 I was given a copy as a gift. My mistake was I bought and played COD4 before I received my copy 
 of MOH Airborne, which set the bar pretty high.
  
  I was disappointed with MOH Airborne on a series of issues:
  * very long load time
  * sluggish 
 interface in the menues
  * moving my character in the game just seems sluggish and clumsy
  * the levels were monotinous
  * as a historic game, it lost me when I encounterd super-human 
 Nazi's and Nazi's with rayguns. (rolls eyes)
  * and what's up with that last level with that unrealistic fortress/flak tower?
  
  The game 
 fell flat with me. My advice, don't play any of the Call of Duty games, and you may enjoy MOH Airborne 
 better. If you play COD, the MOH game will fall flat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason_Morris
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  The latest in EA's Medal Of Honor franchise is upon us, does it deserve honour (I'm British so 
 I can spell properly) in the crowded WWII FPS genre? Yes, but only just. The graphics are as good 
 as you'd expect without ever reaching distinguished, the sound is pretty darned excellent, with 
 great music. This all strikes you pretty immediately, but how does the game play after a while?
 
  
  With gameplay, as most aspects of this game, the fortunes are mixed. Let's start at the beginning, 
 the much talked about parachute jump. Before jumping, you'll be "treated" to some dialogue, of 
 truly magnum cheesiness - these aren't real soldiers, they're flag waving jingoistic caricatures. 
 So inevitably you jump from the plane, more to get away from the irritating bunch of Yankee macho 
 braggarts than any desire to fight. Steering is pretty good, although there are clearly some areas 
 you cannot go, the curse of the "invisible wall" the blight of the linear FPS lives. Anyway, you 
 have the choice of the green smoked areas, a couple of handy rooftops or... .... instant death. 
 So there's only a handful of viable starting places, but after that things are non-linear, right? 
 It may feel like that at first, but a level formula as rigid as Doom 3's endless single corridor, 
 slowly dawns. You have a few objective markers dotted around to head for. There' s usually about 
 4 objectives, or groups of objectives, each in a direction from the centre (ish) where you landed. 
 A journey a short way will trigger the missions. Much of the time, the missions are up a linear 
 path from the centre, with more invisible walls at the sides often preventing circle and flank 
 manoeuvres.
  
  Okay, into battle, the guns feel great, the gunplay is often visceral, the enemies are good at 
 cover and flanking, a challenging battle lies ahead. Great, huh? Again, things are soured somewhat 
 here and there. The enemy AI, while sometimes good at flanking and using cover, is otherwise pretty 
 vanilla, they can sniff you out over your crew and home in on you if you expose an inch of flesh. 
 Oh, now let's talk about your crew, the gameplay's Achilles heel. For such a bunch of flag waving 
 Yankees, they ain't half a suicidal bunch, they just love, more than anything else in the world, 
 to jump in front of your gun as you're training your sights on an enemy, squeezing the trigger. 
 Honestly, it seems they WANT me to shoot them. They really are a useless bunch.
  
  After finishing the landing objectives (9 times out of 10, blowing stuff up) , you come to an objective 
 that takes you out of the initial arena, and into the level's endgame, usually with the accompaniment 
 of another toe-curling cut-scene. Here, more often than not, the pretence of non-linearity disappears 
 totally.
  
  That's it, six times over to the end. Yup, just six levels, the first 3 aren't even particularly 
 large, being completable in 30-45 minutes. Things do hot up in the second half of the game, as 
 well as the difficulty ramping up, too; the last 2 levels are absolutely brutal on the hard difficulty 
 setting. Mind you, I don't know how historically accurate the machine gun toting, gasmask wearing, 
 bullet immune ber-Nazis of the last two levels are, they seem a mite silly to me. Luckily the 
 game is as re-playable as it is tiny, some missions have less linear paths than others, and there 
 is often multiple attack routes; in this respect the non-linearity works a treat.
  
  Overall this isn't the reinvention of the franchise I was hoping for, being altogether too flawed; 
 however it gets just enough right to get a recommendation if WWII FPSs are your bag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: achilles123
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 2:22 am PT
Review:  This is the first game that actually wants you to die in order to give you a bonus. This is because 
 the only way to collect all 5 landing bonuses of a level is to jump from the plane 5 times. And 
 to jump 5 times means, that you have to day at least 4 times during a level (this is if you ALREADY 
 know where exactly the landing bonus zones are located) . Another option would be to hold a grenade 
 during your initial jump and blow yourself to 5 pieces in the air, hoping that you will have at 
 least one extremity in each of the bonus landing points. The most bizarre part is that there is 
 a medal for not dying in a mission. So there is no way for you to take the landing bonuses of the 
 level AND the medal.
  
  Anyway - nice game with nice graphics and game play. Very realistic. More than CoD4, I must say. 
 Especially fights; bad guys actually try to hide and plan some tactics, rather then jumping right 
 onto your gun, cursing in Arabic. They also do not tend to die if a bullet scratches their leg 
 or arm.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  Ok, lets get down to business. 
  
  The graphics are old, with some improvements but they; re still acceptable. 
  
  The idea of 
 parachuting is brilliant because you really can lend anywhere you want and take many paths and 
 walk into many buildings. In the first levels even I went over the rooftops helping my guys on 
 the ground. 
  
  So, that's amazingly innoveative. Having said that, the gamemaps are limited and they are not huge, 
 so you cannot have tasks accross the entire city. It's usually only a couple of blocks of flats, 
 but that's a start and a superb one.
  
  There are some nice ideas with the new hard to kill soldiers, forgot their name. So attempts were 
 made to be innovative. You also can find secret drop skills and the more you shoot you are awarded 
 more ammo, better occuracy and I even got a scope for my gun. 
  
  The AI is a bit poor, because even if you sneak on the rooftops and look down at someone, they 
 see you even though they're not looking up. Then again, you can walk up to the enemy from his back 
 and kill him and he won't notice you.
  Sometimes, they even walk past you without noticing you. This is on medium difficulty. I guess 
 they're the same on the hardest difficulty but probably just take more damage. Nevertheless, I 
 like this because it makes charging more fun and actually possible, otherwise you'd just end up 
 dead every time. 
  
  You can't walk while aiming down the sight which is a bit weird, but it does help hiding and killing 
 enemies when you are low on health. 
  
  The killing is also easier on medium ranges. I remember having to change between aiming down the 
 sight and aiming normally all the time in previous medal of honor games. That's because it was 
 really hard to kill an enemy just 8 meters away, but if he gets too close it's too confusing aiming 
 down the sight so you have to change aiming and kill him by which time he will have got a few bullets 
 or mellee hits at you. 
  
  The easier shooting is welcomed by me, as it does help progress through the game nicely and smoothly. 
 
  
  Apart from the graphics, the only other thingsI can complain about is the length. The game is too 
 short. There are 6 levels I think and that's it. The missions submissions are over fairly quickly 
 and I finished the game in a day or two and I; m a slow player. 
  
  You can't do quick saves which is shite, because usually you have to jump all over again and kill 
 the enemy again and again, although once you reach a checkpoint the game is saved and you don; t 
 have to re-do the target but you have to re-jump. But I guess in a way that's fair, because some 
 achieve certain targets and reinforcements jump in to help with new ones. You play with one character 
 so it is unrealistic for it to jump over and over again and kill the same enemies again and again 
 even though the target they are protecting has been achieved. 
  
  After a certain checkpoint, you no longer have to jump which is a releif then. I'd still have prefered 
 a longer game and quick saves enabled. 
  
  Having said it all, I still love the game and if I didn; t have other games to play right now, I; d 
 play it again. Next time please make a longer game so that gun upgrades can actually be enjoyed 
 and please don't do an unlimited unmber of enemies, it; s boring. Use a 100 enemies instead of 50 
 but still please do have a limit and don; t let them reappear out of nowhere. 
  
  Brilliant game, I love it.
  
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
 
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing if you have nothing else to play
  6 - worh playing if you have nothing to play 
 and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely anything else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 as if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10)
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life.
  
  Best Wishes to everyone
  
  Zak 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: christhor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  Fantastic fast moving game. When you zoom in via the scope, the depth of field is constantly changing. 
 The cross hairs are in focus while the rest of the screen blurs.
  The shooting accuracy seem very good, various kill shoots will make the enemy die in different 
 ways, from falling down to jumping backwards.
  
  Every kill will fill up the icon of the weapon (shown at the bottom of the screen) . When the weapon 
 has been filled you will get an upgrade to allow faster reloading or greater accuracy.
  
  The hardest thing I found was to get the hang of a good (greased) landing. After realising the 
 direction and angle you look with the mouse makes a difference, every 3 of 4 landing were good. 
 
  
  The difficulty is progressive and seems about right. The A. I. of your colleges and enemies is fairly 
 good. The cut film clips helps the feel of the game and do not seem too long. 
  
  The only criticism is: The game is very USA Hero based and gave the impression USA did all the 
 work and the British were there on holiday. The occasional mention of the other countries who were 
 also fighting would have gave a more balanced impression, not sour grapes just a thought. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nzwoodman
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 4:14 am PT
Review:  For a start the game plays & feels like it's 4-5 years old. Compared to what else is in the market 
 for FPS this is not good enough. The graphics are nice, but average - the A. I. is reasonable, but 
 like most FPS, always has the odd moment that makes you smile/laugh/cry - like when you CO is squatting 
 down waiting for you to catch up to him & a German is standing 2m from him in full view and he 
 has you pinned down with SMG fire... yet you CO thinks he deserves the break & does nothing about 
 it.
  I feel like I'm being too -ve, so the good points are...
  the WW2 setting & the weapons are great, the feel great & I really enjoy the challenge of trying 
 to complete a map with a basic weapon (rifle for example - gotta love the M1) . The weapon "unlock" 
 system is nice - although a little frustarting at times - you often don't get enough time to use 
 the unlock to full extent, because the game is too short! - Oh my god - it's so disapointing, for 
 me it was all over in 2 sittings... 
  Sound is good, but I felt the odd weapon did'nt sound as cool as I remember it from the first MOH 
 game....
  Also the Multi-player game is fun, but hardly anyone is playing it....
  Overall buy this game if you love WW2 shooters or the MOH series, otherwise COD4 is a far, far 
 better bet... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimdjuno
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 8:34 am PT
Review:  I enjoy every aspect of this game. The mission briefings are great, the weapons are awesome, and 
 the progression works very well. The AL is very good and they don't get in your way. I enjoyed 
 getting the upgrades on the weapons and thought they shot perfectly. Grenades work well and explosions 
 are awesome. I tried the normal and the expert settings and both were great. I played the single 
 player campaign 3 times and it got better each time. Didn't even get to the multiplayer yet. It's 
 a tough game, but once I got used to it I found it to be very enjoyable and wished it was longer. 
 I didn't experience any game problems at all on my new AMD system with XP. I also didn't think 
 the weapons were off at all. They shot true and were deadly. The game is a typical MOH series game 
 with even more to enjoy then the others. I just hope they come out with a large expansion pack 
 soon -- I want more maps! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sNaKeyy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 4:06 am PT
Review:  I think i played WWII shooters like hell. I'm tired of so much shooters from WWII, Medal of Honor, 
 Call of Duty, Brothers in Arms etc. This subject was too much exploited. When i heard of Airborne 
 i was surprised in a good way. I thought you can parachute where you want and kill anyone. Well, 
 it isn't like this, it's a bit linear on air because if you don't go on the green smoke you'll 
 be dead in a second. You can tho to land on rooftops or hidden towers to sniper out the nazis. 
 A good thing to the game is the weapons upgrade. There are 3 types of upgrade for each weapon, 
 every one giving you different things for the the weapon you play most: so you shot a lot of people 
 or headshots you have a blue bar which is constantly moving up. This is how the upgrade works. 
 But , i don't understand why i got the possibility to shot grenades on the level 3 upgrade on the 
 sniper ?!?!
  The sound is great, the weapons sound effects are great, also a movie of 'how's made' is available 
 at extras and you can see.
  The graphics are mediocre, the Unreal Engine 3 looks good, a bit of uglyness on textures but is 
 ok. You still need to have a good pc to run it at high.
  Overall, this game is a good game, mediocre and short. You can finish it in 5 hours in my oppinion 
 and you'll have the feeling you did this many times before. Roll on... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gl25nn
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 2:55 am PT
Review:  Runs great with decent gfx. No AA without (minor) file hacks. Lack of AA not a big deal. A bit 
 short, but worth the money. Fun enough to replay on all diff. levels to unlock most everything. 
 When the German pistol goes full auto, it gets real fun. 
  
  The thing that bothered me most was the MG42-toting, Super Nazis in the last 2 levels. Unbelievably 
 hard to kill, but more irritating and stupid/funny than anything else. The only thing less believable 
 is me as a Super Airborne Ranger. Absorbing hundreds of fatal wounds and still nearly single-handedly 
 winning any war, no less WW2. Hah! 
  
  Overall, not the best, but a pretty damn good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kicinder
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 11, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  Si, lo mismo de siempre, quizas no sea malo el juego pero es inevitable compararlo con juegos del 
 mismo rango y el call of Duty 4 se lo pasa las.... siendo que se estrenaron en un tiempo que no 
 se puede decir que por eso el call esta mejor, no se si me explico...
  Siendo generoso le doy un 7. Deja que desear en calidad grafica. no me gusta eso de las mejoras 
 a las armas, me parece al gas, se podria haber hecho algo mucho mas creativo y ganar jugabilidad.
 
  Espero que en la proxima entrega no me decepcionen como en esta. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alzo1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  I always loved the medal of honor series and when airborne came out i got the game straight away. 
 And once again medal of honor proved themselves good with this game. 
  
  Gameplay: My favourite part, anyway it is so fun just being able to paracute anywhere in the level 
 and really makes the replay value go up and i think its a good idea that you can level up your 
 weapons. Good thing the A. i is good because it would not be any fun without good ai.
  
  Sound: Once again the sounds are great not just gunfire and explosions but music and voice acting. 
 i especially love the explosions from grenades. The gun sounds are also excelent 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are just, im speech less i just cant say the best i have seen so far.
 
  
  Anyway if you are a fan of first person shooters i recomend this game not only because of it free 
 roaming gameplay but its sound and graphics 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mudcaked
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 8, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Airborne refines the concept of being a World War II era paratrooper and puts this 
 exclusive experience into one box. EA has in some ways turned this into a mixed blessing.
  
  Among the positive aspects of this game are the open ended playability of each level and outstanding 
 visuals that work well to enhance the experience of being back in a European Battleground. Each 
 level contains several mission critical goals that need to be achieved, they will be located at 
 various points around the map and it is up to you as the player what order and priority you intend 
 to go about completing them. Your first order of business begins the minute you step foot out of 
 the C-47 and into open air. This will require you to make a quick decision on where to land (There 
 are 5 skill jump areas on each level to land throughout the map) and therefore dictate the initial 
 pace of combat once you hit terra firma. A poor jump can involve you landing in the middle of axis 
 forces and getting walloped in short order. A good landing may involve you starting the campaign 
 from a more tactically feasible area such as a rooftop or elevated position enabling you to set 
 about your objectives as you desire. That's it for the airborne part, as like real life, once you've 
 been delivered onto the battlefield, you will slug it out in the fashion of being a light infantryman.
 
  
  The visuals are quite exceptional in this game, I found the lighting and blur effects added to 
 the atmosphere the game was intending to portray and in this sense I believe EA were quite successful. 
 Enemy AI can be a little touch and go, though for the most part, the enemy infantry will attempt 
 to outmanouver you and hit you from any exposed flanks and have a love of flushing you out with 
 their potato mashers should you be in a defensive position and static. This will give you a challenge 
 on some levels and see the player engage in some fairly heavy firefights that will involve both 
 suppresion fire as well as fire and manouver being used giving you a sense of the intensity of 
 a pitched firefight as it may have been in World War II. One novelty of the game is the ability 
 to upgrade weapons based on their usage, the upgrades may involve a larger clip, optics or grenade 
 attachments. While handy, they add incentive to use each weapon while not making the weapons seem 
 too outlandish or overpowered once they are upgraded.
  
  The negative side is the game is way to short and feels like it was shipped before it was fully 
 completed. There is no depth of story in regards to characters like MOH: Pacific Assault had. The 
 briefings are only short and very basic and don't cover to much of the history behind the operations 
 that you will be involved in. Some character interaction and more documentation on the campaigns 
 would have gone a long way in improving this game. My final gripe is that the multiplayer has not 
 seemed to have come about with no active servers available most times in the Australiasian region. 
 This only leaves the singleplayer which can easily be completed within six to ten hours as it is 
 only six levels. (Five real Campaigns and a final fictional drop) .
  
  Hopefully EA will release extra content in some form for this title, as it had great potential 
 and was almost a success save for it's lack of polish and content or perhaps lower the price as 
 this game has far less content and replayability than other similar titles on store shelves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ImperiusGladio
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 4:05 am PT
Review:  Yeah sorta intense, but sissy like. The gun mods part is new but WTH!! U cant choose what to put 
 on your own guns, whats that?.... Medal of honor disappointed me again, lets just let WWII go, 
 nobody can do anything new about it, its history....
  
  Lets just hope that this so called "call of duty 4" can brighten up FPS, thx to MOHA it was tainted 
 with boring lame game play and all.... Soo what fancy graphics, still shitty game play and interaction, 
 Id still play KKND.... if I can find where I put the game...
  
  To the creator of MOHA, please just quit making these WWII games soo straight forward, give it 
 a little more action, lets players be shaken on their feet and keep frosty when playing. Ever since 
 MOHAA, I honestly see no improvements to anything except for only graphic quality... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mini_911
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  Recently been playing COD 2, Half Life 2/Counterstrike, and some of the older first person shooters 
 have laying around. This game was a B-day present.
  
  The graphics are good - story line is great - but the start of the game had me thinking it really 
 sucked. 
  
  The first thing i noticed was no matter how many times i shot at the enemy they weren't dying. 
 I had read up and down reviews on the game and starting believing the downers. Then the game locked 
 up my computer and I had to reboot. Played a little longer before locking again. Did some research 
 ---   Download Nvidia's newest driver and run the install, Reboot and works perfectly.
  
  So I almost decide to uninstall the game because it just kinda sucks at first, but I stuck with 
 it a little while and what do you know - got a weapon upgrade for some close call head shots made 
 with the mp40. Then the game started getting fun.
  
  This game does NOT make it EASY to waltz through a level and on to the next. The mission objectives 
 are clear but tough and there are rewards for good shooting and mission effectiveness that make 
 your character even more bad a$$ as the game goes on.
  
  Play through the first level of this game before calling it one way or the other. Its really awesome 
 an awesome game!
  
  Sad its over
  
  Computer Specs
  
  Pentium D 960 3.6Ghz
  1Gb Crucial DDR2 800
  Raid 0 Raptor 36's
  Nvidia 7900GTX x1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 2:49 am PT
Review:  One of the best In Medal of Honor series I have palyed yet!
  good single palyers, well disinged levels, lots of options in how they can be done.. you dont have 
 to go jsut only by one route you can finde other and outflank your enemies!!!
  Good graphics and sound. contols are allso good.
  I also Like the fact that it have stats system 
 when you paly as single player campains. you can see how many shots, hits, kills, headshots, accuracy 
 and much much more you have done in the game.
  this is very good stuff.
  as for mulitplayer its great!!!
  running around killing your enemsis with freinds what else to 
 you need ? lol
  soo disnt listne to peple who saying this game is lame !!
  its great game pick it up and paly it your self!!!!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: uchihataru
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 2, 2007 10:56 pm PT
Review:  this is kind of my dream game.. jumping out of a c-47 and doing missions.. its really fun.. got hooked 
 to this game for 5 hours straight.. loved it.. simply amazing... upgradable weapons... nice graphics... its 
 just an amazing game... the only bad stuff is that the campaign is too short... was expecting to 
 play it for 3 days before completing but turned out to be a 5 hours game.... but still its a great 
 game... just play multiplayer when you're done with the campaign... uh the AIs aren't as dumb as 
 they are in the history channel's battle for the pacific which make me kind of happy.. uh its just 
 worth playing... very nice... uh guns are authentic and uh yea .. its fun.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: esba160
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  I didn't buy the game my buddy lend me his copy to play.. so i had nothing to loose to begin with.. 
 
  in the beginning of the game was a bit boring and i did not really like it...
  
  then from 3rd level and up it sucked me in.. and i could not stop playing... 
  
  graphically 
 the game is a pretty good.. so are most of the latest games... i was running it on 8600GTS.... 
 
  ran very smooth on my 2core pc... no problems...
  
  game play is what makes it... great headshot game.. it motivates you to kill your enemies with 
 one shot.... and you get awarded if you kill 3 or 5 or 8 in a raw without missing... 
  
  you get cool gun modifications that help you waste even more nazzi fools.. without missing.. and 
 before you know.. the game is over ( yes not too long) i didnt beat it yet but i am playing the 
 last level and i am almost done...
  
  finally the game has a bit more freedom and you can kind of choose where to land... climb things 
 and choose your way of getting to a location...
  
  so overall i enjoyed shooting fools in their heads... and blowing of their helmets.. fun stuff...
 
  
  not a bad games people... the weapons the game play and lots of shooting is great.... of course 
 please do not compare it to beasts like crysis .
  but all together i suggest you to try the game....
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kvaglund
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  It's the general feel of the game that takes first price - it is just fun playing - 5, 6 even 7 
 hours in a role and I still want more. This game gotta be the perfect divorce game and the easiest 
 way to lose both your friends and job. 
  
  With the sniper map as my favorite - I just love landing in new places every time discovering new 
 ways around each map.
  
  It's also important that if you get killed it is difficult to pick up the game from where you had 
 to leave it.
  
  Another strong side is how different the maps are, always new a scenario, with a demand for new 
 skills and tactics. 
  
  A downside is the hardware demand on a 19" - 1440x900 LCD my AMD 4000+ and ATI X1650 Pro leaves 
 me a little short of FPS. The 1.1 patch together with a general optimization of WXP has helped 
 a little but I have to disable both internet access, Zone Alarm anti-virus and the bunch of applications 
 that rules my system tray still feeling a few FPS short. So it welcome that Christmas not that 
 far away.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crembo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  First impression:
  By all the previews and videos was very good. The demo was also good.
  I expected quite a lot from it.
  
  Story/AI/Interesting things:
  Story is WWII of course 
 , it might have been already done tons of times but it's still fun. The game itself was interesting 
 , thought short. I finished it in 5 hours.
  Even though it's WWII , somehow the nacis got super strong guys with a minigun in their hands and 
 super strong armor that you can break through only after 5 reloads. Even if you target the head 
 , it's takes around 6 headshots to kill him. Right. Even now , 60 years after the war there's such 
 things. All the other NPC's are normal , and you can acctually kill them. Even though , AI is stupid 
 , no comments here.
  
  Graphics:
  Graphics are good 'cos of the UT3 engine. Performance is also good , game it well optimized. Only 
 one minus , that you can't break ANYTHING. It looks like in 1945 people where making tables (and 
 everything else) out of titanium (with a camoflague of wood.. LOL)
  
  Sound:
  Sound is very good. All weapons sounds very clean and good. Music is also good.
  
  Control:
 
  Most things are standard. Beside leaning and crone. These two are quite diffrent than in other 
 games.
  
  Conclusion:
  The game is nice , I expected more , but it's not a total letdown. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlazingEternity
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 4:10 am PT
Review:  World War II shooters - not only are they based on perhaps the PC's most iconic genre, the FPS, 
 but when you look at the types of shooters out there that can be labeled and categorized based 
 on theme, this era of war has got to be, if not the most popular, at least very high up on the 
 list, which is hardly surprising given the immensely strong interest still found in today's world 
 for this period of warfare. Leading the way for the genre has been two series of note - Call of 
 Duty, and Medal of Honor. With COD now moving on from the past to the present battlefields, the 
 MOH series finds itself pretty lonely in the WWII FPS genre with its latest release in Medal of 
 Honor: Airborne, which aims to deliver a unique approach, but ends up falling into the familiar 
 habits.
  
  Featuring both singleplayer campaign and multiplayer modes, Airborne lives up to its name in the 
 way you enter most maps and battlefields - via an air drop as you take control of a US Army airborne 
 solider named 'Travis'. This is also how your character re-spawns after death, meaning even in 
 the singleplayer campaign mode instead of having to reload the last checkpoint upon defeat you're 
 basically just thrown back into the action with little delay. The game delivers this air drop feature 
 almost as a game inside a game allowing you to maneuver your way down to the ground (ideally to 
 a green smoke area identifying a 'safe zone') , where your angle and terrain of choice can determine 
 the success of your landing.
  
  The thing is, it just isn't a very significant part of the game at all. In real life the airborne 
 soldiers were crucial for the Allied assault on Nazi forces but in the land of videogames, we're 
 so used to just being loaded into the right place at the right time effectively bypassing the means 
 of getting there that actually experiencing the airdrop stage doesn't seem to offer much to the 
 package outside of a quick mini-game that gets repetitive pretty quickly, and worse it doesn't 
 seem to matter at all how you land - even if you do botch a landing, the only consequence is your 
 character taking an extra few seconds to compose himself before you are allowed to take control, 
 which is a harmless set back when landing in 'green zones' anyway.
  
  The only useful thing about the presence of air deployments is the fact you can dictate where you 
 start a level by landing there, which is a pretty cool feature. There are usually more than one 
 green zones to aim for but you can basically land anywhere you want - the game even has a few skilled 
 landing spots to achieve further adding to the mini-game feel of the airborne element. Even though 
 each map in the campaign mode has preset objectives and events that are location dependant meaning 
 if you land further away it just means you've got further to move, the freedom of movement in this 
 game is still quite exceptional. There is almost always more than one way or more than one direction 
 you can attack an objective thanks to the openness of the level designs.
  
  This fact lends very well to the overall 'war time' feel of the game. A lot of attention to detail 
 both visually and design wise has gone into the creation of the environments you fight in not only 
 allowing for this enhanced freedom of movement when compared to other titles of this nature but 
 in general allowing for a much more authentic feel to the game thanks to the fact you'll rarely 
 encounter those atmosphere killing 'invisible walls' preventing you from going in a particular 
 direction. The game still has boundaries of course, but thanks to clever level design you never 
 think twice when you reach one and continue on your merry way towards the objectives. The environments 
 also look great as does the game in general, featuring Unreal Engine 3 technology.
  
  Unfortunately though, this open feel to the design just doesn't translate all the way into the 
 gameplay. Much like MOH titles of the past, Airborne is still very much an 'on rails' experience 
 that, when you take the trivial airborne element away, basically plays and feels much like every 
 MOH title before it. From start to finish in this game you're basically doing the same things over 
 and over - land, shoot a few bad guys, move to the next level. Rinse and repeat. There just isn't 
 much variation on offer here at all even by WWII FPS standards. Even if you've never played a MOH 
 game, the repetition will be hard to overlook because the gameplay is really that unvaried. The 
 most variation you'll likely see in this game is the strengths and weaknesses of different weapons, 
 and that's not much at all.
  
  The saving grace here if there is one that could make you overlook the lack of variation and heavy 
 presence of repetition is the fact that Airborne is still quite fun to play regardless. This is 
 not a game where ultra realism is the focus; this is very much an arcade style shooter that brings 
 the action and more or less never lets down until the closing credits, featuring stuff like auto-replenishing 
 health and mid game weapon upgrades. Around every corner and down every set of stairs you will 
 encounter the enemy, allowing the game's campaign mode to flow very nicely as you make your way 
 through the stages of the Allied assault on Nazi occupation of Europe and, despite the reasonably 
 large open levels, you never get lost or confused not knowing what to do next thanks to a very 
 clear mini-map system. The only real issue with the mechanics of the gameplay is the somewhat dodgy 
 enemy AI, which I can best describe as 'telepathic robotic AI' - they almost always know exactly 
 where you are regardless of your own visibility and they also seem to constantly target you with 
 insanely accurate shots and not your fellow AI soldiers when they can. There also seems to be a 
 slight presence of animation glitches, where enemy soliders can't be shot during some animations 
 at times (for example, hurdling a bench) , which can be responsible for quite a lot of wasted ammo. 
 I guess it's a good thing then that in a complimentary fashion for the fast paced arcade style 
 gameplay, ammo supply is rarely if ever going to be a issue as there is always plenty lying around.
 
  
  On one hand retaining the MOH style of gameplay (that is, traditional no frills FPS gameplay) has 
 made Airborne an instant decent shooter, but we've played this game so many times already that 
 an updated graphics engine and slightly modified delivery just doesn't do enough to make this fresh. 
 The airborne approach is interesting at first but it quickly becomes a loading screen replacement 
 rather than a true element of the gameplay, resorting back to stuff we've played time and time 
 again. But it's still a good game - there is plenty of action and honestly, you will forget how 
 similar the experience is to every other MOH game pretty quickly into the almost arcadey addictive 
 shooting gameplay even if it can be described as repetitive. MOH: Airborne won't be on anyone's 
 lips come GOTY PC time, but it's still good for some fun shooting action that you don't have to 
 think much about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoctorCream
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 16, 2007 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Jump into MOH Airborne with the wrong tactical strategy and gameplay approach and this quickly 
 could be a game that is shut off and never revisited. Which would be a remarkable shame.
  
  MOH is anything but a rush-ahead quick-killing FPS such as Doom 3 , Quake 4, or even some of the 
 faster paced multiplayer games like Call of Duty or Battlefield 2. But get your pacing down and 
 realize that the aiming, impact, accuracy, and general gameplay is dependant on a realistic slower 
 approach to combat, and this game offers tons of gameplay value and fun.
  
  The biggest factor is simply that it is over way too quickly. Surely someone within Electronic 
 Art's quality control team played the small number of missions the game comes with and questioned 
 whether it was enough. If not, they certainly should of because they otherwise ruined and squandered 
 what could have been a candidate for a serious shooter that deserved its rightful accolades.
  
  The biggest letdown of MOH Airborne is that by the time you learn the pacing, accuracy, and 
 tweak your weapons out high enough to be really useful and enjoy the game, you are down literally 
 to two missions left and maybe three hours of gameplay. 
  
  Hold on though for the last mission, which in my book is one of the coolest of all time, ranking 
 right up there with Normandy in COD2 and possibly even the last big level in Half Life 2 Episode 
 2.
  
  Someone though somewhere please tell the gamemakers that there is no reason they need to ship with 
 only 60-80% of a game. Ultimately it only hurts their franchise, and there is no shortage of able 
 coders out there on a volunteer basis if their big-title budgeting can't afford to tweak out one 
 or two extra levels to maximize gameplay value.
  
  
  So a 9.0 game becomes a 7.0 in the eyes of most, although if wait for it to hit the bargain bin 
 you won't be complaining about the value you get from it.
  
  I give it an 8.0 because I didn't have to pay for it....
  
  - DoctorCream
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed the Medal of Honor series a lot: the best in series was & will continue to be Allied Assault. I 
 liked Pacific Assault because of it's realism & intense atmosphere. But why do I like Airborne?
 
  The graphics are very cool, using Unreal Engine 3 & all, so it has one of the best graphics to date. The 
 bad points would be that most of the game takes place at night, so you won't get to admire the landscape 
 so much.& I just don't like the blurr effect that takes place every time you move the mouse... it's 
 annoying.
  The sound has nothing speciall: good effects but somehow low-quality voice acting.
  The gameplay 
 is a classic FPS one, it's not that innovative as EA said. You start every mission in the plane & 
 you get to parachute yourself & land wherever you want on the battlefield. You could land somewhere 
 high & start sniping guys, or get in the middle of the battle with the machine gun. You can take 
 the objectives in any order you want,& that really is nice. But they mainly consist in :Travers 
 blow that, Travers kill those nazis, Travers get there, Travers plant the bomb there, Travers clear 
 that area, etc. But you wo't get bored because before you know it, the game ends. About 6 mission, that's 
 5-7 hours. Not good. But it's very nice that you can upgrade your weapons if you use them often,& 
 your XP with them levels up. I never seen in any game before a sniper on which you can attach grenades 
 & fire with them, but I've seen it in Airborne,& it sure is great!
  The multiplayer is cool,& can make you forget about the short singleplayer campaign. Nothing special 
 though.
  Unfortunatelly, Medal of Honor Airborne is the worst game in the MoH series, but considering the 
 fact that the other MoH games were simply superb, Airborne is just good. My advice: play Call of Duty 
 4 ,Bioshock or Crysis. If you insist, play this game before, not after playing the others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natasha8384
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2007 1:09 am PT
Review:  I'm not a huge fan of Medal of Honor series, but there's not much not to like in Airborne. If you 
 are an FPS fan and like WWII topics, this game is 100% for you. Great graphics, great sound, reasonably 
 good story will give you hours of fun. Sure, some things can be better implemented, but that already 
 goes into a subjective area where some people would like the ability to prone and I'd rather have 
 the ability to "take cover" as in R6 Vegas (not that the classic crouch with some ability to shoot 
 over and under as in Airborne is not good)
  
  Gameplay: 10/10 singleplayer; 8/10 online MP (8 only because no co-op mode is available)
  
 
  Graphics: 10/10 -- not much to say here except ... very, very pretty. This is a good example of 
 how superb graphics don't need the latest and the greatest system to barely run the game (the excuse 
 often used by game producers to cover a lack of know-how and while in many cases those graphics 
 still look crappy)
  
  Sound: 10/10 -- great ambient and battle/weapons sounds
  
  Value: 9/10 -- for about $40 you'll get hours of singleplayer fun and possibly unlimited multiplayer 
 replayability
  
  Overall: 9.0/10 -- one of the best FPS games of 2007, right up there with STALKER, R6 Vegas, COD4. 
 I'd give it 9.5, but the unnecessary automatic install of AGEIA PhysX regardless whether you have 
 the card or not is simply unacceptable ... and quite frankly my only two complaints about this 
 game are no co-op multiplayer and AGEIA auto-install. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuelhog2000
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 9, 2007 5:57 am PT
Review:  good game with decent graphics. no very impressing with no prone position though. recommend game. 
 game to me isn't that short, if you play it on difficult level it makes it a little more challenging. 
 I did have a few spots in the game where gamplay got choppy but thats my computer and not the game. 
 I like how you can get weapon upgrades the more kills you get, makes it a little more interesting. 
 not having prone makes some situations
  a little difficult to get through. AI is pretty decent. Overall game is good and would recommend 
 playing but not a full retail price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mogzsnet
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 9, 2007 2:35 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this game for a LONG time, eagerly watching the release date creep closer 
 and closer. I expected another Medal of Honor: Pacific Assault, I was let down. I guess I should 
 first start out by saying MOHA runs great on my system. I've heard horror stories (well read actually) 
 about how it crashes, fails to load, etc. Yet none of that nonsense reared its ugly head at me. 
 Instead I was let down, not by shoddy programming, but shoddy developing. When you make a knock-out 
 game (in my opinion) like Pacific Assault, people expect you to come through with the same pizazz 
 in the future. Not the case with Airborne. From the get go, the whole story feels COMPLETELY rushed. 
 No intro as to who you are, where you are, or what you're up to. You start in a plane and are pushed 
 out the door and told to aim for a marker on the ground. I'm one for learning on the fly, sure, 
 in fact that pretty much sums up high school for me, but I like to be entertained as well. For 
 a moment lets be honest, I didn't really NEED an involved tutorial as I'm, with out any doubt in 
 MY mind, a seasoned veteran of FPS. So I was willing to sacrifice that little slice of my comfort 
 zone, for more detailed mission outlines, action packed levels, and a drawn out campaign, in the 
 game itself. MOHA 1/2 delivers on this as well. The briefings themselves are horrid. A few fancy 
 slides and a general gist of what you should be doing when you hit the ground. No flair to it, 
 just force-fed info (that you forget as soon as your guy jumps) , and a pat on the ass. I almost 
 forgave them for the ad hoc briefings when I got to the weapon load out screen. I thought, hey 
 a cool addition , as I honestly hated being slotted with weapons I didn't want in previous Medal 
 of Honor games. However, as with the briefings, it was missing that polished feel. First and foremost, 
 what's with the German weapons? Why on EARTH would American paratroopers be issued German hardware? 
 That is intellectually bankrupt. Furthermore where's the M1 Carbine? That weapon was issued in 
 large numbers to American paratroopers as it was light and easy to jump in to combat, not to mention 
 it was my mainstay firearm in Call of Duty. Yet it doesn't even exist in the game. At this point 
 I had to say to myself, no big deal, so a few MINOR issues that only a WW II buff like me would 
 care about. Then I jumped in to Sicily. The jump looked amazing, I loved the detail and the ability 
 to land my trooper anywhere was a great touch. The initial combat was excellent, things were picking 
 up for me. Then I realized, I was all alone. All the guys i'd jumped in with, were no where to 
 be seen. Had they been killed? Was I lost? No, there were swarms of Germans everywhere. That's 
 when I realized that they'd halted at the previous alleyway, letting me go ahead to clear out 10+ 
 Germans by myself. Not exactly a plausible situation. Once i'd done the deed, they bounded forward 
 to engage the next lot of Germans. This situation was repeated throughout the level, and the more 
 it happened, the more annoyed I became with the apparent lack of creativity in the game. The coup 
 de grace was the constant shortage of fellow soldiers around me. Apparently the whole 82nd Airborne 
 Division had jumped in to Sicily, yet myself and two others were fighting the war on our own. At 
 least in Call of Duty you're surrounded by numerous comrades and you actually feel like you're 
 fighting a battle. In MOHA it felt more like being a lone wolf running the gauntlet. One last bad 
 point I HAVE to touch on, is the awkwardness of the enemy when under fire. In one situation I was 
 firing an M1 Garand at a German Grenadier behind a row of sandbags, after my third shot, he promptly 
 did a 180, and ran TOWARDS my fellow paratroopers (shockingly they were around for this fight) , 
 seemingly incognizant of their existence. I have to ask at this point, how is that even logical? 
 Why script an action in to the enemy that makes them perform ridiculous tactical maneuvers, all 
 for the sake of getting away from the player? Intellectually bankrupt. Medal of Honor Airborne 
 is a good game, not a great one, good. It has some excellent aspects; graphics, scenery, sounds, 
 in combat chatter between soldiers, and some INTENSE firefights. But when all is said and done, 
 and the smoke clears, the game simply fails to live up to what I expected. Maybe I got my hopes 
 up. Maybe Pacific Assault lead me to expect more. Regardless, Airborne let me down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hooksalot
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 6, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  In short I am so disappointed in this game it isn't funny. 1st off I had to exchange the game 3 
 times just to get a copy that wasn't corrupted (bad .cab file on 2 of them) . 2nd, how is it possible 
 that I can be behind a car and no Axis in sight, but somehow they can shoot me and kill me. The 
 save option is abysmal and even if you do finish an objective and then die you will have to refight 
 the same enemies you already have. Enemies spawn out of mis air even when you are looking at an 
 empty spot. Your Allies have no AI, even worse than the Axis, and accomplish nothing but getting 
 in your way while you are trying to fire. Axis has amazing accuracy with guns and grenades while 
 I can fire 50 rounds into them and get 1 hit. Level bosses in a WWII FPS? (Need I say any more) ? 
 Absolutely the worse WWII game to ever hit the market. Oh well I am off to buy COD 4. Hopefully 
 they got it right. EA is just pumping out game after game with no quality. Money is the bottom 
 line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 55584623
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 21, 2008 3:30 pm PT
Review:  MOHA diferent from what the most are saying, have a good gameplay and is the best one of the computer 
 series, simply because it finallys brings you to a realistic battle.
  the only major problem is that the game is really really short.
  but every moment in the campaing 
 still worths because the battles are very well reproducted and for the first time in the series 
 you have a total freedom in the batllefield alowing you to do the objectives in the order of your 
 desire.
  dont need to mention that the replay value is high. the new system of jumping into any location 
 in the battle works really well,
  and is makes a good diference.
  when you fall far from the safe point it doenst means death.
  it only means a diferent action 
 sequence to reach the objective.
  so... play MOHA instead of carrying about the critics, it reallys worths.
  but for sure is a 
 great pity that the game is short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboysfan87
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 3, 2007 6:28 am PT
Review:  + LIKED:
  + Much improved AI - Soldiers actual try not to get shot. They hide and will attack from different 
 directions if you only go at them one way.
  + Graphics are top notch
  + Sound effects are above par + The ability to drop into any part of the map is outstanding.
 
  + Forgiving game play on easy modes and ruthless on harder modes.
  
  - DISLIKED:
  - TOO SHORT.... This was over way to fast. Somebody owes me a refund. - Lower end graphics card 
 owners will be frustrated by the graphics, as most of the combat is at night in dim lit areas. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdrenaLANcg
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 7:01 am PT
Review:  Graphics are good but anyone can see they didn't quite optimized the UE3. Performance options are 
 limited and the game LAGS in single player when played on evga 6800 or 7300 series.
  
  Action in the game is choppy, bad guys under cover are almost invincible even if you empty a clip 
 on their head. And red cross guy... What was that about? multiple headshots and he won't go down 
 and he fires an mg42 from his weist with sniper accuracy! I can't imagine that happening for real.
 
  
  The paratrooper aproach gives a little fresh air to the traditional follow-the-line shoowters because 
 it lets you start wherever you want in the map and you can aproach objectives in any order you 
 like.
  
  Games like Call of Duty have a much better approach on the WW2 scenario even if MoH has a long 
 line of titles on the same topic. Call of Duy has a better feel of authenticity throughout the 
 whole game.
  
  In short, Please EA and guys behind MoH, live to your potential I believe you can do a lot better 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackTargetmark
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2007 1:44 am PT
Review:  From all WW II FPS games, it looks like only Airborne (&amp; Vanguard) that lets us start in the 
 sky. This is a good feature, because we can choose our own starting point and start getting advantage 
 from our landing point of choice.
  Gameplay is impressive. One thing that benefits Airborne from other WW II FPS games is its airdrop. 
 In the land, I won't comment much because it is more of less pretty same with the others. What 
 made me sometimes annoyed is, in most gunfights I'm pretty sure I've aimed for the head, but why 
 doesn't it hit? Was it solely my mistake or some kind of glitch? I don't know. So I think in the 
 game we will mostly make use of either MP40, Thompson, or St. G.
  Graphics are, well, very beautiful for a measurement of FPS game. And of course EA will have to 
 work hard for the graphics, because in the airdrop, nearly all of the level will be visible, so 
 details and smoothness will be very important in order to ease our eyes and make us comfortable 
 in designating our landing point. For the humans and weapons, I think it's well-done, it's just 
 sometimes AI will make a repetitive stance or movements. And I think explosions (especially grenades) 
 are a bit strange, but the flames are nice, though.
  The sound is detailed, yes, I'd say that. I don't pay attention to sounds much but I can say the 
 sound of the C-47 engine, MP40 bursting, MG42 spraying, Garand out of ammo, Springfield bolt-action, 
 German and Italian shouts, etc. are nicely designed.
  Overall, if you're a fan of MoH series or an WW II FPS freak, then this is a must-get for you.
 
  Gameplay: 9 Graphics: 8 Sound: 9 Overall: 8.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madskongen
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Airborne.
  
  How many world war based games have there been?, too many. But some of them still do a good job 
 of entertaining.
  
  MOH: Airborne adds some new things to the Historic war based games, First of all none of the previous 
 games you have been forced to follow a strict road to accomplish your missions, whilst in Airborne 
 you can basically drop anywhere you like, for example you can land on roofs and such and have a 
 leverage against the enemy, or you can drop directly into the hornest nest of germans and play 
 god, which probably will come to an end pretty quick.
  
  Some Good and Bad about MOH : Airborne.
  
  + Graphics are very cutting edge i had to purchase 
 a new Graphic card just to play this game. all weapon and character models look authentic and great.
 
  
  + Sounds in the game are i think the best i've heard in a War game, they all fit in so perfectly, 
 for example, when you run on a rooftop you clearly hear the roof tiles clank under your feet. Weapons 
 also sound good, however not all match the real sound of the actual weapon. The game also has a 
 nice soundtrack composed by Michael Giacchino, which has composed the music from the previous Medal 
 of Honor games in the past.
  
  + Gameplay. Some of the new features i noticed in the game was when using ironsight you can pop 
 in and out of cover, lay down or lean out of a corner, which is helpful to avoid fire. When using 
 weapons enough, you eventually get a medal for that weapon, which unlocks an upgrade, that could 
 either be higher rate of fire better aim, or larger magazine sizes.
  
  The game uses better physics and ragdolls, which in short makes enemy death animations much more 
 realistic, unlike previous war games enemies had static death animations which only used a line 
 of death animations that would look the same most of the time. In Airborne enemies fall according 
 to how you shoot them. There is also a feature when you run or move your reticule around, you experience 
 blurred vision which also adds more realism. Bad:
  
  - Story could be longer.
  
  - Missions while moderately long, they have very simple and boring objectives, which could have 
 used tweaking.
  
  - Bugs, Noticed several bugs in the game, one was the enemy models, if shot in a certain place, 
 they would have their arm or leg stuck in the wall or such, stretching it far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MayheM83
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 25, 2007 11:22 pm PT
Review:  I personally feel that the game in many aspects were PERFECT, BUT, the total length of the game 
 made it almost boring to find out after you've finished the Tower mission, that the game is over. 
 The recoil wasn't as bad as many people claimed. Graphic details was great and the gameplay was 
 typically MOH...
  I do feel however that they could've improved on the sound. This is there fourth game already ( 
 i think ) and they still don't support high-end soundcards fully. There are no decent audio settings 
 such as OpenAL, EAX5, etc.
  Other than that, I really enjoyed the 3hs of play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prsorensen
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 25, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Frontline was what got me into FPS games and I have fond memories of being sniped 
 from the water towers and blasted by the tank (early in the game) .
  
  My expectations were very high for MOH Airborne, but I was very disappointed. The single-player 
 is ok at best. The hit recognition and accuracy are very poor. These also play heavily into my 
 major disappointment in the multiplayer-game poor frame rates, poor hit recognition and poor accuracy 
 really bring it down tremendously. It is fun to jump out of the airplane on Ally and fun to pick 
 off paratroopers on Axis, but it cannot make up for the shortfalls that I mentioned before. Shame 
 on EA for not doing a better job. I have already returned my copy to Gamestop and I won't be buying 
 MOH games in the future (if there are any) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamidfull
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 10:13 am PT
Review:  Great game! Only I tell you Pros and Cons and I let you to decide
  
  Note : First Dont Forget update your copy to v1.1
  
  Pros :
  Great image and graphic quality 
 thanks to Unreal Engine 3
  Great story and Great missions
  Realism (I was in Normandy while gaming!)
  Every innovation from you would have a nice Award/Medal
 
  Guns and their accuracy is real
  
  Cons :
  No commands like MOH : PA
  A bit similar to Call of Duty 2
  Sounds could be better
  
  PS : About image and graphic quality 
 I should say I played this game @ 1280x1024 with 8xQ AA + 16AF SuperSample in Forceware 163.76 
 XP x86 and every thing was fine with my rig :
  
  I have C2D E6300 @ 400x7=2.8GHz + GBT 965P-DS4 + 8800GTS 320MB A3 @ 650/1500/2000MHz + 2GB DDR2-800MHz 
 + LG 1960TR 19 2ms LCD
  
  Min FPS was = 35
  Max FPS was = 75
  AVG FPS was = 52
  
  Finally Smooooooth! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: with_teeth26
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  I must admit, i didn't have very high expectations for this game when i bought it. but i was pleasently 
 suprised. first i was suprised by how well it ran on med high settings with my 8600gt and p42.8ghz 
 prosseccor. Although you can get through the missions fast, i found it, and still find it, fun 
 to replay them on different difficulty and try and earn all the stars, skill drops, and medals. 
 Graphically, this game is abosulutely incredible. esecially the character modes. the one downside 
 is, like bioshock, there is no AA, but if you have a nvidia 8 series card, you can force aa through 
 the control panel. that's what i did, and it looks great. the sound is some of the best i've heard. 
 because of my processor, i turned the sound quality down to low as this helps performance, but 
 it still sounded amazing. you can unlock a video where they show the guys getting the wepon sounds, 
 and they actually used authentic weapons to make them! the gameplay is fun, especially the fact 
 that you can parashute in and land wherever your want to. Beware authenticity fans, airborne is 
 not historically accurate in the least. the last level does not even exist. and the old moh cheese 
 is back in a number of places. other than that, the weapon upgrades are great, and your teamates 
 are actually very helpfull. this is definitly my favorite WWII game to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2007 3:53 pm PT
Review:  I'm surprised MoHA has had such mixed reviews. Whilst I'm not the biggest fan of WWII games (to 
 be honest I'm sick to death of them) , this has to be one of the best to date.
  
  Action is frantic at a break neck speed and as soon as one objective is completed you are rushing 
 off to complete another, with nice little cut screens in between - it keeps you wanting to play 
 and coming back for more.
  
  The game also has a simple unlock / upgrade system improving weaponry as you make so many kills.
 
  
  Sound is what you expect from a game of this type but visuals are awesome. Maps are nicely detailed, 
 well lighted and realistic. Character models are very nicely done. The AI is pretty good also. 
 My only gripe is that the devs have put in a checkpoint system rather than allowing players to 
 save the game whenever they want as they go along.
  
  Overall the game is very much fun. It is quite easy, but this is designed to be arcade action more 
 than anything else.
  
  Must buy !
  
  Graphics 9.5
  Sound 9
  Gameplay 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevenj101
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2007 7:33 am PT
Review:  I have been playing this game everynight for the past week. Highley additictive with slightly new 
 gameplay considering that you parachute into each mission and have new Skill Drops to achieve and 
 the AI has slightly better intelligence. Also their is a new entrance into each mission called 
 a loadout where you choose your weapons before going into the mission! I have not spent to much 
 time on the multiplayer yet but the kill shots are more accurate. (you are dead if you get shot 
 in the head or parts of the chest. And the AI actually dies without having to empy an entire clip 
 on them! Awsome game! I give it a 9! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaosmancer
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 17, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  Good game overall but easy to complete, multi-player is very very cool. If you have this game and 
 you don't have Internet then you should buy something else since the game is very easy to complete, 
 I did it in 2 days on expert so...
  The Multi-Player is, in my opinion what is best in the game, since after all you can play over 
 and over and it will always be different. The sound is good, although it has some problems on vista, 
 but nothing very serious. The graphics are excellent when you put everything to the max, it makes 
 the game really much better, but in some computers it my cause it to slow down, although you probably 
 won't notice it. Playing the game, you may notice some weapons to look the same but once you start 
 playing it you will realize that they all very different, you will also notice that most game seem 
 to have some parts were you can't reach although it will look like it is possible, the ones that 
 have this problem are the areas out of game, without those in mind the only things you can't climb 
 are threes and bushes because everything else you can climb.
  One of the few problems it has in my opinion it the saving, since it will only save after you complete 
 an objective, and if you die you will have to land the parachute again so it can be annoying although 
 in some parts of the game it won't happen. Another problem is the fact that the campaign mode is 
 very small featuring only 5 missions were you can easily complete each in an hour or a bit more, 
 other than that the game is good, easy and simple so... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkdesires
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 16, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Its the ebst looking WWII shooter up to date and one of the most intense. You are from the airborne 
 unit so you'll be always jumping from an airplane at the begin of each mission, no it doesn't get 
 boring after some jumps, its really cool to jump and see the whole scenario, its also great that 
 we can land anywhere in the battlefield. The graphics are incredible, the action its very intense, 
 no, not so intense like call of duty 2 but its still pretty intense. The gameplay its not the best 
 out there since sometimes you have the sensation that you are hitting ghosts cause the bullets 
 dont seem to damage them even 1 meter from the enemy. The worst thing about medal of honor airborne 
 its the very very very short single player campaign, if the campaign was twice long it would still 
 be too short for this kind of game, you'll be over with it in 5-6 hours, only the expert setting 
 can get you again in the game or maybe not.
  Its a shame airborne its so short if it had something like 15 hours of gameplay it could have been 
 an awesome game, and some better gameplay as well. The multiplayer can get you some more action 
 but i'm not a multiplayer fan and won't talk about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rick_Thomson
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 15, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  It's a nice game, it's not outstanding. Just another game of the World War II series. But although 
 that it's not a 13 in a dozen WW2 FPS. The big difference is that the game is not linair. The Single 
 Player mode, kind of reminds to a multiplayer game. You've got a total level in which you can spawn 
 anywhere. The big difference, you have to steer to you spawnposition. It makes the game really 
 nice. When trying to take over a building, in stead of shooting and taking the lead inside the 
 building like a wild west cowboy in movies. (Which was the case with most of the WW2 shooters so 
 far) , you can sneak in from the back and the the germans out from the flank or rear. This gives 
 a good effect to the game. Unfortunatly as good as the wide levels are, that bad is the hit detection. 
 Even if you can see a german and you are shooting at him, you can't hit him when he is in covering 
 mode. Even with a clear sight and headshot. He will not be harmed a bit. This is a pity, because 
 now you have to come out of you cover to be able to shoot the bastard. In total it's a good game, 
 and really well worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Are_You_Morbid
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 4:11 am PT
Review:  I played airborne a while after pacific assault. I must admit I liked it more. I wouldn't call 
 it amazing or awesome but it had definetely some new ideas and the scenery of europe is one of 
 my favorites for WW2.
  The basic problem of the game is that it is too short. Meaning that I managed to finish the campaign 
 in less than 12 hrs I approximately. Nice storyline interesting mission is all I have to say about 
 scenario.
  Now for the good things. Apart from graphics and music which are sufficient the highlight is gameplay.
 
  I found it extremely interesting dropping from an airplne and trying to land on the right spot 
 trying to make a good landing.
  One other thing I loved was the progression regarding the various weapons within the game. You 
 start with a simple weapon say... K98 and you finish up with a k98 with scope and grenade launcher. 
 Great touch! Well done!
  Finishing i would like to say that it is a game that it's worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 27, 2007 11:57 pm PT
Review:  Medal Of Honour Airborne P. C version is a dissapointment in some ways . I am going to point out 
 its pros and cons below .
  
  I have a capable P. C rig to play medal of honour fine , but from day one the game gave me only 
 headaches . it was freezing badly after every 15 minutes even after passing its recommended requirements 
 , patching it , having latest video and sound card drivers etc . I had to reebot my P. C often for 
 the freezing problems .
  
  Next dissapointment was its storyline . Its very short with total six campaigns and that could 
 be completed under one sitting within few hours . Tho the game has nice graphics / visuals . The 
 game looks best amongst medal of honour series thanks to unreal three engine . Soundquality of 
 the game is excellent . AI is very smart . Plus point of the game is its weapons . Throughout the 
 game you can upgrade your weapons and keep them . But the sniper rifles have poor aiming . Nothing 
 is special about the story , you have to destroy germans as usual in each missions and complete 
 objectives . The last level of the game rocks from the rest campaigns as you get to destroy a very 
 big flak tower surrounded by german soldiers . The nazi elite soldier is a welcome change . Your 
 character is a paratrooper of U. S division and you have to land in safety zones before missions 
 .If you land between enemy lines , chances of you getting killed is high so you have to land wisely. 
 Its also a nice change from previous series . You get to earn bronze , silver or gold wings throughout 
 each missions by landing on skill drop zones . Its multiplayer is okay . You get team team deathmatch 
 , team deathmatch airborne , objective modes . Make sure you patch the game before going online 
 . If you happen to own a Xbox 360 get the Xbox 360 game or if you happen to own a high end P. C 
 rig , then get it P. C version . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: attila_9
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 5:04 am PT
Review:  This is a great game as long as it lasts. Problem is... It doesn't last for very long at all!
 
  
  With a waiting list at the store long as my arm I had to wait even longer for this game before 
 I finally got my hands on it.... A mere 15 hours of gaming later one word comes to mind. D I S 
 A P O I N T M E N T!
  
  The game is great, no doubt, but what happend? It's just another scoot 'n shoot game. The airborne 
 (paradrop) part last for a couple of seconds and could be left out since it doesn't really have 
 any effect on the game. You end up landing where you are supposed to land anyway. There's no point 
 in landing smack in the middle of enemy territory since you are overwelmed with troops shooting 
 at you from all directions. So, the paradrop , could have been left out and the effort could have 
 gone into making the game longer.
  
  Some positive things though... The upgrading system for your weapons are pretty cool and I ended 
 up trying to get the best out of my favourite weapons (M1 Garand and Springfield sniper) at all 
 times. The graphics are OFCOURSE! damn good and the sound and voices too. When playing with headphones 
 the horrors of war is right in your ears and one tend to look over ones shoulder to see were your 
 buddies are and whos screaming.
  
  Anyway, 15 hours to go through a game like this isn't much and doing it again isn't an option because 
 it only gets easier (yes, even at expert level) . EA put alot of effort in this but somehow forgot 
 that we want to PLAY the game and not just look at it from above for a few seconds. Shame really 
 because the idea of paradropping was pretty good.
  
  To sum it up... When the game ends most players will sit there with their mouth open and thinking 
 What the hell happend? . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtryon
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 12, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honor was the game that introduce me in the multiplayer word. That&acute; s why I really 
 love this series. But I don&acute; t know why people of EA insist to make a first action World War 
 II game with a airborne soldier that can&acute; t go prone in the middle of a rain of bullets or 
 close to a frag grenade ready to blow. But, trough the time, it seems the mark of MOH. That take 
 all the credibility of the situation and actually, there are better WWII games than MOH, like COD. 
 EA simply didn&acute; t learn nothing, and I feel sad cause this game have very well done grafics, 
 instead their predecessors. Well, people of EA says that they take a lot of real situations to 
 make the game more fun -like the weapons upgrade, or the kind of a robot german soldiers with the 
 rail machinegun-, but, at least for me, it&acute; s very important that a historical game preserve 
 some kind of real thing. Well, at the end, finally I finished the game and enjoy it, but, honestly, 
 I&acute; m still waiting for the COD4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: notadreamer
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 11, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  I have all of the MOH series and have played them alot. I was really looking forward to this one-Airborne-Then 
 when I got the game, my problems began to rise-first-even thought I have a 128 video card-it was 
 not approved for this game-so, I purchased a 512 card on the approved list ($300.) I then installed 
 the game as reconmended by EA (turn off running files and virus protection) and again my cost rose, 
 while I got the game installed, I proceeded to reg. the game on line-big mistake-forgot my virus 
 pro. was off and I got a worm and wiped my harddrive and $170.00 later for the hard drive and I 
 for got to mention I had to up grade my power supply for the new video card ($130) and now I installed 
 the game again when I spent close to $500. to run a $50 game. Now I discover that the game likes 
 to crash in just about every mission, the detail of the scenes are very poor, shooting is choppy, 
 too many hoops to jump thru to get the game just to run and in the middle of every mission I have 
 to restart my computer when the game freezes -- This is the worst game I have incountered for a long 
 time -- I down loaded the so called patch to fix multi-problems-but as usual, none of these addressed 
 the problems I am having with this now very costly game -- I think I'll go back to Jewel case games 
 and find some fun games that won't bleed me dry ----Thanks EA for your great series up to this point -- This 
 last one (Airborne) killed my interest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeyboy070
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  I'm gonna skip the basics here and just go straight to the point. I don't got a lot good to say 
 about the game. It is ok. However, there are a lot little flaws that irritated me. Like the weapons 
 upgrade system. It wasn't that long ago that EA claimed to have the most accurate WWII shooters 
 of all time. But somehow, mid game play I get weapons upgrades. My guy can apparently whittle a 
 non-standard issue fore grip for my thompson while killing people with it? How about the amazing 
 work he did on the barrel break? Lets not for get the non-standard issue 50 rnd drum mags? WTF? 
 The graphics aren't bad but aren't stellar, definitely pailing in comparison to Bioshock and Halo 
 3. The single player campaign gives you achivements to get, landing on difficult drop points to 
 get an advantage.. ect, but that is about it. The game play itself, when you get down to the blazing 
 guns, isn't that great. The usual popping skulls of the dumb ai who stop in the middle of the road 
 to shoot at you. POINTLESS.
  
  The multi player left a bit more to do, it was fun in a cod 2 sort of way. The jump in really made 
 some thing interesting, but not really to the point that it saved the game. Overall a lack luster 
 showing from ea, obviously they are point more time in the battlefield... right? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knitecrow007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Metal Of Honor Airborne continues the popular MOH series and and the tradition of solid game play. 
 If you have played any of the MOH or Call of Duty series, this game offers more of same Nazi-killing 
 goodness. Significant changes to game play comes from the ability to land and start the game anyway 
 on the map, leveling up weapons, and objectives that can usually be accomplished in any order and 
 a greater reliance on cover. More than ever, there is a very heavy reliance on cover - run and 
 gun tactics will get you killed. Methodical and patient strategies need to be applied. This is 
 a welcome change from the numerous brain dead shooters. Controls themselves are overall good but 
 I did find it frustrating not being able to throw grenades with one button, instead of switch back 
 and forth between guns and grenades. While the levels themselves appear small, level design is 
 quite intricate with multiple paths and options to completion. Supporting the level design is good 
 AI; you truly feel like fighting with other members in an epic battle against smart enemies. The 
 single player campaign is taut and highly enjoyable with the one complaint being that it ends all 
 too quickly. Graphics and sound come together to a final layer of shine on a game that is already 
 good without good graphics/sound.
  
  Simply put, if you like games like Call of Duty or shooters in general, this is a game you must 
 play.
  
  8.5 / 10
  
  Visit my gaming blog/forum www. gamingdump. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mailbox2112
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  This game is just great, plain and simple. I bought this the day it came out, and, being a veteran 
 of all the other medal of honor games, I atempted to beat it on the hardest difficulty. I still 
 haven't gotten past the second mission. Yeah, its that hard. Anyway, the game has absolutley amazing 
 graphics. My computer can run this game on high flawlessley, and it looks amazing. The problem 
 is, I spent $1000 turning this computer into a gamer's dream. So, you need a damn nice computer 
 to run this game. But, there are other problems to this game. 1: Collision detection is horrible, 
 so it is impossible to kill enemies in less than 3 shots.2: The recoil on guns, although extremely 
 realistic, makes it even harder to shoot those dirty nazis. Lastly, the game doesn't allow MSAA 
 so, the model edges look extremely jagged. But those problems asides, this game almost rivals halo 
 in my opinion
  
  It gets a 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: notoriouswill7
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 1:57 am PT
Review:  Quite disappointed with it as there's only a total of 6 single player missions... each mission 
 will take roughly about 1 hour to finish... so it comes up into 6 hours of game play? graphics 
 are good... great idea.... intro cannot be skipped which makes it quite annoying during repeat 
 of game play. the idea of having weapon upgrade is good, as from a simple colt, it can be upgraded 
 into a magnum with rapid fire and thus made it my favorite weapon in the game. appearance of the 
 game is distinctive, player can easily differentiate enemy and allies when it comes to contrast 
 with COD 3. i wonder will this come out in nintendo wii as im also disappointed with COD 3 wii 
 version 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Medal Of Honor Airborne takes place in Italy, France and germany. You are a 82nd airborne paratrooper 
 set out to destoy nazi germany. Gameplay is fun yet its very hard even on casual mode. it took 
 a good 7 hours of gameplay. Every mission you jump out of a dc-17 and control your way to the ground. 
 You go throout your missions killing nazis and blowing things up. Each time you die you get sent 
 back in as a reinforcement along with your fellow soldiers that died as well. When you jump back 
 into the action all of your objectives you have already done are still complete so you dont have 
 to restart a mission. I actually felt like i alone was the hero of world war II since your AI squad 
 stands around and gets shot Graphics are simply amazing. On PC on high it looks better than the 
 PS3/Xbox 360 version. Detailed textures and amazing enviroments make this game feel as real as 
 it gets to world war II. The sound is great with realistic vehicle sounds and gun shots. This as 
 well adds to the realism this game gives.
  
  The Good-Amazing Sound and Graphics, Great gameplay that will change te World war II FPS genere 
 for ever.
  
  The Bad-There are some glitches but nothng major that stops your from playing the game till the 
 end
  
  The Ugly-Bad Squad AI that stands around getting shot all the time. 1 Unrealistic german unit. 
 The Nazi Storm elite. They didnt go around holding MG42's and have crazy amounts of body armor. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JakeWolf
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 7:19 pm PT
Review:  I had great hopes for this installment of Medal of Honor and in some ways EA didn't disappoint. 
 The visuals are awesome, music is good, excellent voice acting, and great cinematic feel. The developers 
 also innovated on previous Medal of Honor games with:
  1- A weapon mastery module that made replay the game at least once to master all the weapons and 
 see what kind of weapon abilities I could unlock. Great idea!
  2- Special landing challenges that you can make dying in the game not so frustrating.
  3- Great 
 player movement and effects that make you feel like you're really throwing a grenade or sprinting 
 to your next objective.
  4- Landing on roofs and using that as a vantage point instead of a predetermined path is also very 
 cool.
  5- Cool new enemies like the badass with the machine gun.
  So why oh why did EA repeat the same things players have been complaining about for so long? Things 
 like:
  1- Often horrible collision detection, you would be shooting someone only a few feet away in the 
 head and you don't even see the icon that tells you that you landed a shot (this especially happen 
 when you're in a tight spot) .
  2- They use ragdoll physics about half the time you kill an enemy, but they kept some of the unusual 
 and silly dying animations that nowadays throw you off. I found myself repeatedly shooting an enemy 
 while the death animation was going (the animation that mimics 50's movies of an enemy slowly falling 
 to his death) .
  3- Very steep difficulty levels, made worse with the problems already stated.
  
  EA also got 
 a few other things wrong. The save system is really limiting and annoying. If you die you have 
 to re-engage all the enemies you had to kill to get to the point in the game you reached, they 
 all pop back up again. I can understand that some enemy would come back to areas already cleared. 
 But all of them?? and in the same places?
  Star reward system for levels is confusing, I thought I had a good run at some levels and ended 
 up with a 2 star rating.
  
  I took the time to write this cause I really think EA can do better, especially with some of the 
 innovations in this MoH. Hope they won't disappoint next time.
  
  They should consider firing their current testers and getting a new batch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rlee_1001
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  Being a fan of the original Medal of Honour games I couldnt wait to get my hands on Airborne, 
 but when I did I was pretty disappointed. The parachuting is an ok idea, but the concept of the 
 skill drops is flawed; half the time you can barely see the markers for the skill drops, and even 
 when you can you still have to guess what sort of stupidity they want you to execute at each one. 
 Most often you have to land in the safe areas and learn about the skill drops when you encounter 
 them on the ground while executing your objectives, which means the only way to try to accomplish 
 the skill drop is to die, or reload. Dont plan on getting any help learning how to parachute either, 
 even in training they just throw you out the door and let you fly... Great training mission guys, 
 phf. That brings me to my second point: the absence of the quicksave. I am personally in love with 
 quicksaving and it would have come in really handy, especially while hanging out in a bell tower 
 unloading on the Nazis running about below, or running around trying to find the parts to assemble 
 a recoilless rifle while a fricken Tiger tank is blasting away at you. No quicksave in an FPS in 
 2007, youve got to be kidding me.
  
  Talking about the bell tower reminds me of my next point; Im not sure where the developers got 
 the idea that the Tiger tank can fire rounds at 45 degrees and higher, but wtf?? Honestly. Im 
 on top of the cross at the uppermost point of the steeple of the church in Operation Market Garden, 
 and for some insane reason the Tiger tank can somehow shoot to that elevation from only about 100 
 meters away. Give me a break EA, are you out of your mind, no tank from WWII can shoot like that, 
 thanks for coming out. Why are the elite Nazi troops permanently wearing gas masks? Lame. Another 
 thing that is annoying in this game is that no matter how good your cover is, the enemy will hit 
 you anyway... (Elite soldiers that carry the MG-42 Lite will obliterate you even when you are behind 
 corners, bunkers, etc.) Sometimes I have clear sightlines out of doorways but unless I lean out 
 the bullet will strike on of Airbornes many invisible walls, talk about annoying. Anyway, those 
 are just a few of the reasons why I dont think Gamespot was too far off with their 7.0 rating. 
 Its certainly higher than what I think the game deserved. I am pretty disappointed with what this 
 game is when it could have been soo much more... This game had ridiculous potential but the cons 
 far outweigh the pros. Back to the drawing board EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nkearsey
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 4, 2007 10:15 pm PT
Review:  I did find the single player game to be enjoyable, but it was way too short, though it does have 
 some replay value by finding different drop zones. I was sorely disappointed with the multiplayer. 
 With a limit of 12 players per server, it never gets very exciting. The games browser is the worst 
 I've seen in years, it has no option to remember your login, or any of your filters. Once a server 
 goes through its set of matches, you get kicked back to the main menu screen and have to go back 
 into multiplayer and reselect all of your options. Hopefully a patch will fix this, but seeing 
 that there are so few people playing it, I doubt it will be repaired. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: persiankurosh
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  It was some years that Medal of Honor had been lost in battle against Call of Duty. Of course Airborne 
 has nothing less than COD3 but its not a masterpiece because COD3 was a boring and repetitive 
 game. With Airborne, you can remember your good moments in MOH series. The game unlike developers 
 pretensions has nothing new. The levels, despite of been made open but there are still linear and 
 you should just follow the arrow and the compass that shows the next mission. Of course none of 
 these are bad it means that the gameplay is much good that in spite of being repetitive, it is 
 exciting and make you feel to be in a real war like COD2. MOH always was more successful in simulating 
 battlefields that other World war games. The animation of soldiers and acting with other and environment 
 is very nice and even if you pay attention when they are speaking, you will see that words are 
 sank with their lips. Jumping with parachute really is not as exciting as what EA claimed. Leading 
 the parachute and landing is better than what you have seen before in other games. But as your 
 feet reach the ground, again the same story and gameplay in MOH series is waiting for you.
  Graphic has nothing less but it could be much better. The biggest problem is being no good a good 
 physic in Airborne. In spite of good and beautiful explosions and the amount of dusts and jots 
 that float in the air but nothing happens to the stones near the explosion.
  Enemies as usual have no good AI. Of course they hide when you shoot at them but there are sometimes 
 that they rush to you like an angry bull. In other side your allys AI is not high too. About all 
 time that you aim well or you want to throw a grenade, one of your friends will come in your path.
 
  Airborne is a good game. In spite of all this problems, the nice gameplay makes you to forget 
 all problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorraid
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  MEdal of Honour : Airbourne
  When i went to buy this game... i was acctually there to get bioshock :p. but since i hate bioshock 
 so much... i decided i would go with MOHAB instead. i personally didnt think that anyone would 
 be able to make a game as good as COD 2 based on WWII. i was so wrong.
  1st. before mentioning anything else.. i would like to tell u the 2 only things.. Which Give MOHAB 
 a low score
  1. a extremly shot campaign.... Just six missions.. besides the last one the rest take about 30 
 mins to complete each.
  2. NO LAN :S this by far is the worst EA could do.. No LAN play for Moh. wot the hell were they 
 thinking... i seriously dread the fact that there is no lan play in this game
  
  as for the review.
  Moh series is a very very old one... i mean all the games in moh series r 
 extremly good. (if u take Call of duty out of its competion that is) . there r so many WWII games 
 out there that its not even fun to play them anymore. i mean i am tried of storming the beaches 
 of normandy france. i am tired of shooting millions of Nazi soldiers with my tommy gun... i am 
 tired of running for cover when i see a German Tiger tank approaching.. well EA did.. something 
 totaly unexpeced.. as now we wont be fighting as the infantry men. but as an elite Airbourne commando.. who 
 is paratrooped to the scenes of battles.. this is by far the best Parachute scene i have seen in 
 any game. Airboure tells us the story from a different prospective... i. e wot did the airboune do 
 in WWII. we start of with a trainning mission where we have to jump form the plane a couple of 
 times.. than... we r put into the thick of battle... some town in italy... has to be won... well 
 we dont have to win it... all we need to do is destroy the AA guns.. as we parachute out of the 
 plane... we get a choice to where we want to land... usually green smoke marks the safe areas but 
 its up to u to decide where u want to go.. each mission has a 5 skill drop zones. u unlock bonuses 
 when u land there there is a open ended world.. and u have the ability to land anywhere... well 
 not anywhere.. i tried to be over smart but a invisible wall didnt let me paradrop outside the 
 city. the shooting is really nicely done. and its difficult to use rifles compared to call of duty.. 
 but hey... u can upgrade your weapons the more u use them. i stuck with my BAR machine gun and 
 a Grand rifle through the entire game.. which... Well was just afew hours long : (. MOHAB is really 
 a nice game... which feels like it was rushed.. i mean just 6 missions?? a game which makes u feel 
 like u r in WWII.. and wot u get... just 6 missions and no LAN play.
  the graphics r really nice... some of the best Motion blur with a really nice effect when u r runing 
 as the screen shakes. Than there is a very nice Cover system.. though not as good as Vegas it still 
 does a good job
  all u need to do is hold the right mouse button and manuvar with the directional keys and the mouse... 
 to wot angle u want to lean to ... this is really helpful in pitched battles... The grenades r also 
 a useful edition to your arsnal... and do a good job of throwing nazis over... u will encounter 
 a total of 10 types of nazis... each with its own behavior and battle tactices. the later being 
 really tough.
  
  Over all MOHAB could have been the best WWII shooter if it didnt had the 2 major problems mentioned 
 above. still its a must have game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildamnesia
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  Yes, it's short. But it's an absolute joy from start to finish. From the second the game starts 
 you're right in the thick of the action. In every level you're heavily under fire from all directions. 
 Nowhere is safe (apart from the small green landing zones) . Firefights are fierce and pushing forward 
 takes some skill. This is the kind of game you look forward to playing again when you're only half 
 way through. I've played it 3 times now and I'm still loving it. The graphics are amazing and the 
 sound is incredible. This game is an adrenaline-fuelled thrill ride that does'nt last long but 
 what a rush! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: l_eeburgess
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 28, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Why is that EA, once known for their great games, are hellbent on churning out games like this 
 these days. Too short and seriously flawed.
  When I first played this game the first thing I thought was that the graphics were really good. 
 However, after a while I looked at them more closely and saw that in fact if you ignore the lighting 
 (which is good) the textures are actually pretty blocky. If you look closely at some of the gun 
 models they are actually really quite poor. The men are okay, but yet again they are also slightly 
 blocky, with antialiasing not seeming to help much . The blur effects and the lighting do their 
 best to cover these faults up, but because I had finished the game so quickly I looked harder at 
 the game and was disappointed with it.
  Some say that since you can drop anywhere in the level this is a non linear game, this is not true, 
 its still a very linear game, so any points EA have been making about being able to play the game 
 anyway you like is just not true. You still have tp complete the objectives, therefore you are 
 always going to be forced to follow a linear route.
  Also, as I already said, this game is far far too short, and even the later levels, which are certainly 
 harder and bigger, don't help make it feel any bigger.
  Having said all that, this game still is extremely playable and some of the battles in it are intensive, 
 and that for me is its only saving grace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shogarth
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  Disclaimer: If you are a serious twitch-gamer, this review will likely annoy you.
  
  This edition of Medal of Honor is really not much more than a rehashing of earlier WW II run-and-gun 
 shooters. Lots has been written about the airdrop insertion mechanism. I will agree that it adds 
 a nice change in that you can pick an advantageous mission start point, but the directional controls 
 don't actually seem to do much.
  
  The good: The graphics are nice and the non-linear feel to the missions (since they are all essentially 
 arena maps) is a nice change. The bad: I played Doom on a 486DX2-66; more than a decade later, 
 it takes a lot more than a tweaked graphics engine and a nice soundtrack to impress me. To be honest, 
 since Dark Forces came out and provided a real 3D combat environment shooters have stagnated. There 
 just isn't any new gameplay here and it isn't a spectacular example of the genre.
  
  The ugly: This is WW II, right? In theory the weapons and equipment are modeled on things that 
 really existed. How, then, do you get a largely bullet proof Nazi soldier shooting an MG-42 from 
 the hip with accuracy to rival Davy Crockett? I don't care what body armor in that era he is wearing, 
 a few .30-06 or .45ACP rounds (much less a frag grenade from three feet away) should knock him 
 out. Indestructible soldiers are a compensation for a poor AI. Further, why does the enemy AI seem 
 focused on running up and butt-stroking you rather than mowing you down with an MP-40 or Luger 
 9mm?
  
  The rant. What's the deal with spawning enemies? They are questionable as a game element. In theory, 
 there is a fixed number of targets for a mission. If you want to allow for reinforcements, that's 
 fine, but reinforcements would come through some sort of access (windows, doors, trucks, airdrop, 
 etc.) I'm talking about Nazi soldiers appearing out of thin air behind me in a dead-end room I 
 just cleared out (Note: This happened on multiple missions.) . This is sloppy game design driven 
 by a perceived need to satisfy a demand for large body counts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plumber59a
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 28, 2007 7:21 am PT
Review:  This is one of the first games that solely focuses on the 82nd Airborne Division. The graphics 
 are outstanding. Though the AI can be a little buggy, over-all they are some of the best. Reacting 
 to fire, laying down suppressive fire, taking cover. Very realistic. The only drawback is that 
 the game is very short. But it has a high potential for re-playabiltity. The ability to parachute 
 and perform a PLF ( Performed Landing Fall ) is, from what I know, the first of its kind in a video 
 game. It adds so much to the gaming experience. I recommend this game to everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markbowen_99
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 28, 2007 2:26 am PT
Review:  In terms of a WW2 shooter, this is a pretty good game. If you've got the hardware to crank up all 
 the details, the graphics are also very impressive, certainly the best to date in the MoH series. 
 The earlier missions have you parachuting into Italy, and in my opinion these are the best missions, 
 even if the enemies in these levels are fairly easy to pick off. Later missions include D-Day, 
 Market-Garden, and into Germany. All in all, engaging enough to play through to the end -- which, 
 as everyone else has pointed out, comes far too quickly.
  
  EA could have done much more with this game. In particular, the D-Day and Market-Garden segments 
 -- which are classic operations and should have been the core of the game -- are no longer than 
 any other segment. Market-Garden/Nijmegen is particularly short. They could have included some 
 glider landings, and it would have been nice to play as the British at Arnhem (or even the Germans 
 on Crete) , but I guess that kind of thing is more Call of Duty than Medal of Honor.
  
  Also, I'm no expert, but it seems that the planes are flying much lower than they would in reality. 
 From jumping to landing takes about 15 seconds. Maybe that was a playability choice by the designers. 
 Also, too many of the operations have you jumping straight into the middle of heavily occupied 
 towns, which I think in real life would have been mistakes, not planned that way.
  
  What really lets this game down is the sudden appearance (about 3/4 of the way through) of Nazi 
 super soldiers, scary gas-mask wearing, machine gun toting bada**es, who don't go down until you've 
 emptied half a clip into them. This turns the game from a semi-realistic WW2 shooter into some 
 silly sci-fi Return to Castle Wolfenstein clone. Totally unnecessary.
  
  Still, if you're hankering for some shoot 'em up action, and can live with the quibbles, it's worth 
 a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red_bdk
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Medal of honor is good game with good graphics and game play. BUT it is very short game. I played 
 it about 7hours and 45min and it was over when the game was getting exiteding . The game has some 
 solid multi player elements. But i mainly play the single player . So let me tell you guys abouy 
 the single player things. At the start of the missons you have jump from the planes and its up 
 to you where you land. Safe landing zones are marked with green flares .Another feature is the upgrading 
 system of the weapons. every weapon can be upgraded three times. The game is good but short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  Another first person war shooter? So what did they do to make this one stand out from all the others... nothing. 
 But that is ok.
  
  Graphics: Nothing ground breaking but well done and I never had any crashes running maxed out. 
 Not much in the pysics dept and although you could move objects, the ability to simply blow up 
 a box with your shotgun just because you could, was missing.
  
  Gameplay: Just your standard everyday same ol' same ol' shooter. Get your mission, pick your weapons, 
 start shooting. The aspect of getting to choose where you land is definitely a cool aspect of this 
 game. The AI is well done and that would normally be fantastic if I could actually fight back... dear 
 god, you have to be dead on the money to hit anything. I actually tried to re-calibrate my mouse 
 at first because I couldnt hit anything... took some time but I got it down and it wasnt all that 
 painful in the long run. The ability to upgrade your weapons was interesting, but by the time I 
 got the good stuff, the game was almost over. It should be a law that $60 buys you at least 40hrs 
 of gameplay... I beat this game in one night +. Had this game gone longer, I would have raised my 
 score significantly. Overall: If you are looking for a run and gun standard genre shooter, you 
 should be all over this game... just not for anything over $20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: londo2001
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 27, 2007 5:13 am PT
Review:  You know what to expect and you get it in spades, some nice touches and great graphics. The fact 
 you can land almost anywhere is a great feature but lets be honest there is nothing revolutionary 
 about the game play once you have landed. I probably enjoyed it more than I expect even though 
 the game is way to short, you just feel like you are getting in to it and bank it's all over. The 
 only other gripe is the fact you can't save or replay the missions. Time to complete was about 
 6 hours! Is it really worth it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about Medal of Honor Airborne, I was excited that there was going to be a change 
 in WW2 shooters. For once the whole battle field is a circle that you can walk around and pick 
 which missions you do first.
  
  This game has one of the best single player experiences so far. The levels are fun and the A. I. 
 is great. The enemies move around and flank you and take cover when you are shooting at them. There 
 are a bunch of cool battles in this game. One that was super cool was when I was trying to out 
 some explosives on some tanks, and snipers kept on shooting at me so I had to move around and find 
 places were I could get to the room they are in, or snipe them, or get close enough to snipe them.
 
  
  The single player is great but it only lasts a few hours. So you can play the multi player. The 
 multi player is fun and intense. There are a few flaws. One thing is that there is a maximum of 
 twelve players per map, so the most you can have is six on six. But the maps are small enough that 
 you are not just walking around trying to find a guy to shoot at. The other complaint is that there 
 are only about six maps in the multi player. I wish there was more but the maps you have are fun 
 to play on. Over all the multi player is a fun to play.
  
  The graphics in Medal of Honor Airborne are good looking and some of the things looks pretty real. 
 The environments look real and the soldiers and enemies look good thou there are a few flaws.
 
  
  The sound is great to hear and the battle cries, guns, and explosions sound great.
  
  One other thing about this game is that there are some unlock-ables for weapons. The unlock-ables 
 are cool, like for the shoot gun one of the unlocks is that there is a knife on the end of the 
 gun so you kill enemies faster. The thing about the unlocks is that at the beginning it is hard 
 to aim the guns which is kind of bad.
  
  Over all the single plater is great and the multi player is great. If you are a first person shooter 
 fan than you to play Medal of Honor Airborne . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grainp
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Very good game, very realistic, with recoil, confusion of soldiers during a battle, view bugs with 
 screens. Great graphics and effects. Easy to learn. its ahrd to shoot or aim like it probably was 
 during the war, people run all over the place, GI's were regular folks not well trained commandos. 
 Enemy very aggressive sometimes make it look dum. Good variety of weapons, improve your aim and 
 speed of reload as you gain experience. Drop from plane always the same and not very usefull to 
 game.
  
  You play on your own even if surrended by other soldiers, they keep on coming, you can really work 
 as a team 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssohall
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 12:13 am PT
Review:  This game reminds me of Return to Castle Wolfenstein, AIRBORNE rocked, compared to PACIFIC ASSAULT 
 which was long and boring , the best thing in this game is : Tanks and Panzershreks shooting missiles 
 at you, its quite a bit of a thriller. Sad that this game does not run good on old gpu's such as 
 7300s... If you at least have an 8600, the game's worth playing... and watch out for Nazi Storm 
 Elite, that guy is a solid tanker. Guns are good when you reach Sharpshooter level in them, unlike 
 other WW2 games, guns have grenade launchers. I played almost whole of the game using Springfield 
 Sniper and the Shotgun, very effective at short range, just blows Nazi heads like **** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bachilders
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 25, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Medal of honor airborne is a ver fun game. It has great graphics, awesome sound, good body physics, 
 etc. There are two major flaws I see. First off, the game uses unreal 3. This engine comes packed 
 in with some powerful physics, and yet they are used only for ragdolls. If you shoot a bike with 
 a panzershreck, it will not move. This is very dissappointing in a high profile shooter in 2007. 
 The gameplay itself is fun, parachuting is great, and the difficulty is usually good. Some parts 
 get very difficult on expert, but for the most part its pretty easy. Unfortunately, this game is 
 extremely short. I finished the game in 1 day. There is a lot of replay value, but other games 
 have that and 15-20 hour campaigns. Multiplayer is alright, but some maps arent very fun, while 
 others are great. I would reccommend this game, but not for more than 30-40 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stecchino11
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 25, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Keep in mind all these comments apply to this out-of-the box version. Considering that it seems 
 the video game quality control standards for the PC nowadays are get it mostly done and finish 
 the rest later , this out-of-the-box version will likely be much different and much worse than 
 a future version. I keep reading September 17 circulated as a date when their releasing AT LEAST 
 the dedicated server files (up until now everyone is playing on player-hosted computers) , but the 
 whole MoH community is hoping for other fixes as well.
  
  Praises
  Several classic MoH maps are re-done.
  
  The ducking and peaking tactics are implemented nicely 
 and is actually far superior to any other shooter I've played. It really encourages using your
 
  cover and not being the stupid person standing in the middle of a fire zone. This will cut down 
 a tad on the careless, skill-less blind run-and-gunning.
  
  The sound effects can be very good at time such when moving over a brick sandy path, all your movement 
 sounds turn very granular. The same is when you're in an underground bunker or hollow church, everything 
 turns very cave-like and hollow . It's pretty cool. Bullets whizz by realistically with awesome 
 sound.
  
  The graphics are at times very very good.
  
  The ragdoll physics when someone gets shot are cool. Using the AGEIA physics plug-in, when you 
 shoot someone in the left shoulder and kill them, their left should will fly back and flop around 
 on their way to their dirt nap.
  
  Speaking of shooting, how about this - where you aim is actually where your bullets go! Who'd o' 
 thunk that?
  
  I think the health system is nice hybrid between the wait under cover and heal up and find medic 
 packs . You have 4 blocks of health if you get injured 1.5 blocks, you can find cover and be back 
 up to 3 blocks. If you find a medic pack you can be healed full again (4 blocks) . If you get injured 
 3.5 blocks, you're almost dead and need to find cover so you can at least have 1 block of health 
 but you'd better find some medic packs, etc.
  
  The sniper scope in daylight is pretty dang cool and the scope zoom is adjustable. It sort of auto-focuses 
 when you find a target and is fuzzy and out of focus in other areas. It reminds me of the macro 
 effect on most digital cameras.
  
  In single player, when you get a reward, medal or weapon upgrade the whole world slows down to 
 about 1/16x (including the sounds) while you enjoy your achievement. This transition effect is 
 awesome.
  
  I think the grenade effects are unrealistic but kind of cool looking. YMMV.
  
  Gripes
  Only 6 maps (3 of which are simply re-done classic maps so only 3 new maps, really) , 
 3 game modes, and 12 players per server maximum out of the box. Enough said. This will hopefully 
 improve as they release updates.
  
  You will probably need to update your video card to play it smoothly and with decent visuals.
 
  
  On the flip side, the graphics are times weird. They are definitely some bugs to be fixed as well 
 as some performance issues. Anti-aliasing is not easy to enable unless you have a pretty high-end 
 card. Certain parts of the MP game play seem choppy such as climbing ladders, jumping over obstacles, 
 and the kill/death animations surrounding the kill cam.
  
  On the death announcement scroller thing, it would be nice to see something more than John killed 
 Jack . It doesn't indicate how they were killed or even who's side each player is on.
  
  Fallen soldiers weapons float in the air about 3 feet. Looks stupid.
  
  After jumping off any 
 high position (even really high) you have no health damage -- come on now.
  
  Once you're in a server, there's no way to spectate or step out of the battle for a moment or even 
 choose to just not respawn.
  
  Once you're in a server, there's no way to tell what game type you're playing (you just have to 
 remember) .
  
  On these non-dedicated servers, once the match is over the server quits and you have to join another 
 server.
  
  One praise was that the graphics and lighting were pretty good. Well, on the flip side, the graphics 
 are at times weird. They are definitely some bugs to be fixed as well as some performance issues. 
 Anti-aliasing is not easy to enable unless you have a pretty high-end card so he we have some otherwise 
 awesome visuals and lighting effects but with jagged lines everywhere? Certain parts of the MP 
 gameplay seem choppy such as climbing ladders, jumping over obstacles, the kill/death animations 
 surrounding the kill cam, and in a negative way reminded me a tad of Day of Defeat: Source.
  
  Why have anti-tank weapons with no vehicles? Would rather have a deployable MG or something 
 at little more useful. The rocket-only players can be quite annoying but then again they're easy 
 enough to grease.
  
  The sound stage and 3D sound detection is just OK . It is sometimes difficult to hear when an enemy 
 is walking near by (a la BF2) or where exactly nearby. I'm spoiled by CoD in that regard where 
 sound is absolutely key sometimes. This COULD just be my weird impression, though.
  
  Speaking of this, there is no way to go completely silent or creep which is not huge but I'd like 
 to see that.
  
  No prone ability. This is like FPS 101, right?
  
  Although stated abroad on numerous sites, I will include it here: no ability to change your in-game 
 name is a P-A-I-N. This is the BF2 effect . There's also no ability to have any special characters 
 or add any type of tags to a name. Oh yeah, you can only only use your user name that you registered 
 the game with on EA's registration website (which is NOT EA. com, it's a different website) . If 
 they chose to allow us to use the EA. com registration to login into multiplayer actually makes 
 a little bit of sense. You would just have to up for a free EA. com account and can manage your 
 Personas which are basically nicknames and then choose from your personas or whatever inside the 
 game. Logic would suggest that EA should use this database for customers to log into the multiplayer 
 system but NOOOO. Some genius thinks they should have a different database in which it's almost 
 impossible to register a new name without have at least 4 numbers in it to make it unique. Even 
 though it's still a pain to have to log into EA just to play multiplayer, it's manageable. However, 
 they make it so freakin' difficult for a large number of people to even play by their stupid rules. 
 All this is compliments of Insatiable Desire for Exhaustive Control of Content &amp; Revenue Streams 
 meets Wicked-Poor Product Rollout and Implementation. (you can call it IDECCRS+WPPRI for short 
 ) .
  
  Other observations:
  MP has a pseudo killcam where once you are killed there is a 3rd person camera zoom to where your 
 enemy is (in real time) . You don't actually see how he killed you from his perspective just an 
 overhead 3rd person view of where he is at that particular moment.
  
  There will be a reward system in MP but I have not experienced it yet (except for a dang Purple 
 Heart on my first day) . There is also the issue of whether we'll have to have official ranked servers 
 or not. I like the idea of stats and upgrades but IMHO, I'd like to see just as much emphasis on 
 the non-ranked servers. Ranked servers tend to screw all the independent and custom servers as 
 well as being pretty expensive. Only time will tell.
  
  Thus far I've used the Auto-Rifle the most (STG 44 for Axis, BAR for Allies) . They are powerful 
 and really lethal. The snipers are quite lethal as well (as they should be) .
  
  Opinion
  [opinion]
  Hope that helps those of you who were curious but not interested in dropping $50. 
 I highly suggest if you're interested in the game, that you not buy it for the multiplayer, or 
 at least wait a few weeks or months until the price goes down AND they release the patches/updates. 
 The single player is great and I thought well done and fun if you're a WWII junkie like me. However, 
 if you're a lover of CoD, CoD: UO, or CoD 2 you'll be disappointed if you whop down $50.
  [/opinion] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: papabear23
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 25, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  when u look at the first time at the game ill problably say woow ... but when u get on the field 
 ..... after 2 rounds of bullets after the first corner is yhe nazi alien mama ... whos making 10 
 germans per minute..... so u're get out guns , grenads , bullets in a few minutes so all war u'll 
 fight what a single pistol becase there a infinite bullets..... so EA gave him a very big raise 
 on salary or a very big check , cause all the 2-nd war the warriors was full of pistols and nazi 
 alien mama's all around the world..... to finish what im trying to say ,search on the net a patch 
 somethin' for unlimited bullets and instal 3-4 patches cause for sure u'll need it .... ciaoo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squidney2k1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  WW2 shooters seem like they're a dime a dozen, and over the past few years, the industry has attempted 
 to move forward from the dying genre, taking quite a few stumbles on the way. With Call of Duty 
 moving on into Modern Combat, EA abandoning the WW2 setting of the Battlefield series, and Ubisoft 
 considering the future of it's smash franchise, Brothers In Arms, gamers yearn for the few remaining 
 FPS games set in World War 2 to be revolutionary and stellar. While Medal of Honor: Airborne is 
 a worthy attempt to refresh the genre, it fails and prooves that WW2 needs to remain in the history 
 books.
  
  Story/Presentation: 7.5
  As with the usual Medal of Honor (MOH) design, the story here is virtually non-existent. You play 
 as Boyd Travers, a random Airborne tropper with a seemingly random name, zero personality, no dialog, 
 and no inclusion in the few cutscenes. And that's fine, for the most part, as most gamers have 
 atoned to the lack of story in their WW2 shooters. Still, with the genre dying, it would've been 
 nice to see at least some attempt to develop a story.
  
  MOH: Airborne makes an attempt to update the genre by placing players in the 82nd Airborne Division, 
 meaning, at the start of each mission, you'll actually be jumping out of a plane and parachuting 
 in. Sounds somewhat exciting and the thrill factor is certainly there, but overall the practice 
 is mundane, and quickly regarded as a gimmick. Each mission is scattered with numerous and varried 
 objectives, with new objectives and mission updates occuring frequently. The locales are also varried, 
 from the crumbling bombed-out cities of Operation Market Garden, open countrysides approaching 
 coastal defesnses, but each one plays nearly the same and will full repetitive very shortly. EA 
 did a great job at using different regions and mission settings for each campaign, but the result 
 is a very detatched setting, even for a WW2 game.
  
  Each level, or campaign, is ridden with destroyed buldings, vehicles, and tons of fortified enemy 
 defenses, which all serve to effectively simulate a warzone evironment, However, each environment 
 feels entirely static as there are zero desructable elements and interactivity.
  
  Graphics: 7.0
  The game runs off of the latest build of the Unreal 3 Engine, and it shows it 
 very well. Textures are rich with tons of detail, and just enough to keep each building, house, 
 and trench from all looking the same. Cities really do appear to be furverantly destroyed, and 
 that's a rarity in games these days.
  
  However, even with the power of the U3 Engine, the game looks FAR too static. The lighting system 
 is functional, but isn't reactive enough and gives the game a painted effect. While standing still, 
 it's one gorgeous screen shot, but in motion, the feeling is reminiscent of the old PS1 games that 
 used pre-rendered environments. Along with zero environmental activity and no destructable elements, 
 it doesn't provide the feeling that you are actually part of the world, but more like pieces moving 
 around the board of a board game. There's also blinding muzzleflare from weapons that is clearly 
 overdone.
  
  Thankfully, some great and realistic animations and explosions (if a bit last-gen looking) save 
 the game in this category.
  
  Sound: 9.0
  EA has always had great sound design, and MOH: A is no different. While the score may be a bit toned 
 down from WW2 shooters that try to emulate Saving Private Ryan, it fits in perfectly.
  
  Sound effects are spot on, and guns sounds are some of the best ever, without going overboard, 
 or sounding like pea-shooters.
  
  Gameplay: 7.0
  The primary marketing of Airborne is that you can parachute to anywhere on the battlefield and 
 accomplish your objectives in any order you see fit. It seemed like it might be revolutionary, 
 but in the end, it serves as nothing but a glorified self-selecting respawn process. It's extremely 
 detatched from the rest of the gameplay, and feels very cheap. It does, however, allow players 
 easy access to rooftops, although other than the first mission (also the Demo mission) , that becomes 
 null and void.
  
  The game moves at a frantic pace as enemies will somewhat continue to respawn from fortified positions 
 until you push forward, and the enemy A. I. is extremely reactive - they move constantly from cover 
 to cover, and won't usually be caught in the open. However, I find that they do a little too much 
 peeking without firing their guns, as if to say here's you're 2 second window to take a headshot!... my 
 gift! Their ability to seek you out and aim is not so hampered. In fact, it's well overdone. Doesn't 
 matter if you're 10-ft in front of your target, or 150-ft behind him and high up on the roof getting 
 ready to snipe at him... he ALWAYS knows you are there. Far too many times did I circle around enemies, 
 well hidden up on the rooftops 3 stories up, and as soon as I leaned out to snipe, the A. I. immediately 
 turns and starts firing, with pretty decent accuracy, even with an SMG at 300-ft.... I suppose they 
 have radar 2.
  
  Your A. I. is a different story, suffice to say they only serve as decoys. They don't shoot enough, 
 they run directly into fire, and have no personal problem in standing right in front of your sights 
 while you're enganging the enemy.
  
  Oh yeah, you can't move while aiming down the sights. You can lean all over the place, but you 
 can't move one step. Yeah.... pretty stupid, I know.
  
  The weapons are a mixed bag - there's plenty available, and you get to chose your selection at 
 the start of each mission (2 guns and a sidearm) , but they're broken from the get go. EA has introduced 
 an Upgrade system, where after kills are acquired for each weapon, an upgrade is automatically 
 unlocked (and equipped) for that gun/grenade. This can be anything from increased ammo, faster 
 reloading with dual magizines, scopes, and grips to reduce recoil. It's a bit out of place, especially 
 in the middle of a WW2 fight, and it also punishes the player early as the weapons are extremely 
 inaccurate in the early stages (getting a headshot with an SMG outside of 10-ft is HARD) . There's 
 also plenty of hit detection issues, and you'll find yourself questioning some of the results of 
 that perfect headshot you swore you lined up. I don't know if this was done on purpose as a poor 
 attempt at authentication, or the game never received a proper playtest... either way, it sucks.
 
  
  Multiplayer is average. The ability to lean while aiming provides for some clever hiding spots, 
 precision firing, and ambushing, but since you cannot move while doing so, and the accuracy while 
 firing from the hip is so poor, it can often make matches frustratingly drawn out. Combine that 
 with the poor hit detection, and you've got a MP experience that isn't worth more than a few hours.
 
  
  Performance: 8.5
  After Rainbow Six: Vegas, which ran off of a modified version of the Unreal 3 Engine (dubbed U3 
 Lite by gamers) , speculation on the requirements seemed steeped. However, it's clear that the U3 
 engine is a forced to be reckoned with. Even when the framerate drops (which it will when whever 
 the view distance is vast) , it doesn't appear to chug, thanks in part to a stale lighting system, 
 and plenty of motion blurr effects. It actually works out nicely. It's even optimized for Dual 
 &amp; Quad Core processors, and widescreen is officially supported (which is rare for an EA PC 
 game) .
  
  The bad news? No SLI/Crossfire support, and the driver support is touchy. I ran it on a T7600 2.33 
 Ghz Core 2 Duo, 2 GB RAM, Dual nVidia GeForce Go 7950 GTX cards and Windows XP, and I was shocked 
 that there was zero SLI support, which is just downright criminal in 2007 (forcing it in the conrtrol 
 panel actually makes performance worse) . It's important that gamers update their drivers, or at 
 least update the file Profiles (if you're an nVidia user, try the newest BioShock drivers ) , as 
 that will at least provide full optimization for the supported settings.
  
  Overall: 7.5
  I can't recommend spending $50-$60 on this game - It's too short, the multiplayer isn't very rewarding..... and 
 it's just not that good. It's not BAD at all... just a prime example of mediocrity. WW2 shooters 
 need to die. That's how a majority of gamers feel, so if you're going to attempt to challange that 
 idea, you've got to bring your A-game, and EA may have gotten an A- for effort, they get a C+ for 
 performance. If you're looking for a fresh WW2 fix, then go ahead and give it a rental on the 360 
 (which has more players on Live anyways) , or just go back to playing Brothers In Arms or Call of 
 Duty 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saerulon
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 28, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Let's start off with the good, Medal of Honor: Airborne (MoHA) is a solid game that will probably 
 manage to entertain those that enjoyed the other games in the series. It adds a number of new features, 
 some more useful than others, and the graphics and sound have continued to improve as well and 
 reach the 2007 standard with ease. The gameplay should last about 6-10 hours depending on the chosen 
 difficulty level of the campaign and on whether or not you want to actively unlock weapon upgrades 
 and land on special locations.
  
  The bad part of this latest game of the series are, I'm sad to say, the new features. Jumping into 
 the battle sounds great, but it's really no big deal unless you can get excited about reaching 
 five specific points for a virtual medal. The weapon upgrades are decent, but add very little to 
 the game, often coming up with not much more than a little extra damage, a little less recoil or 
 a little faster reload time. It's all right, but nothing you've never seen before. The negative 
 consequence of all this airborne freedom is that the missions are not as scripted as those in earlier 
 parts, reducing the storyline to a couple of separate encounters on what at times seems like a 
 Team Deathmatch against the AI. An AI that, should you decide to stand in one place for a number 
 of minutes, will simply continue to spawn endlessly.
  
  The ugly side of MoHA starts to show itself once the band of soldiers jumps into Germany in the 
 later missions of the game. In order to spice things up and add some variety to the type of enemies 
 the player has to fight, the development team apparently decided to include a bunch of super soldiers, 
 the Nazi Storm Elite. Yes, it is indeed as bad as it sounds. This completely pointless addition 
 is not only frustrating, it also seems very much out of place.
  
  A final comment on the multiplayer side of MoHA: it's being worked on. While this sort of solution 
 enforces the opinion that the game was rushed into release, and some have even suggested it's a 
 trick by EA to sell a possible expansion pack, the end result should still be that the multiplayer 
 is brought to the same level of the rest of the game. In which case the player will be better off, 
 which can only be a good thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueguy93
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 23, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  This is my first non-sonic review. The graphics and music rock for this game. Airborne is basiclly 
 a good game, but gets annoying at some costs. The sound I guess is okay but needs work. I think 
 it will sell to atleast 1 million copies by next year. Sure, it's a fun game, but can you take 
 the violence and stuff? I think the game-play is not as good as oither first person shooters, but 
 it's better than others at-least. Overall: great. Buy this game and try it out. One of the best 
 shooters you'll ever play. If you don't like it, by halo 3 or something else violent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluegun
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  This game is simply fun! I would go as far as to suggest this is better than all other war games 
 out there this year around (for me at least) . I did COH, Call of Duty and a lot other war games 
 but none as popping as this. What i want is the feeling of playing a game where the mission is 
 not super hard till u simply hate yourself. this is best delivered in this game
  
  Dont worry about getting lost in a mission, cause u are guided by a compass. dont u just hate it 
 to think too much in a shooting game? The mission is pretty good (the real reason i rated this 
 so high) I really felt being part of the game as i progress from mission to mission and amzing 
 upgrade for weapons in experience causing me to replay it over and over again.
  
  Con of this game is the buggy installation and the supported graphic card. make sure u have the 
 supported card before u buy this baby. This is a pretty fast game. U can complete it in a day or 
 two but replayable many times as it offer upgrades and badges.
  
  Now i just cant wait for the expansion, if they have one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Settler87
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  After hours of playing MOH Airborne i'm so satisfied with its gameplay which similar to the first 
 episodes of MOH. Graphics is OK but in cinematics i got a blur color this may be due to my old 
 Geforce GPS card. Sound is perfect but still luck of reality and instant action feedback. In some 
 messions it is hard to work by team, so i need to get it out by myself. When talking about bazoouka, 
 i'm here with a very realistic explosions.
  Globally i liked it at least a perfect FPS game before the king of all FPS ever made COD 4 which 
 i'm waiting by second .... :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyyfox1
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2007 2:15 am PT
Review:  i just upgraded to a new computer with vista and have been aching to try some new games. i play 
 alot of hl2, fear, bf2142 which seem to work just fine on vista. my all time fav ww2 game is cod 
 2. and that game is getting old so i just had to have a new ww2 game. moh airborne is perfect fro 
 ww2 buffs. it is not the greatest game in the world. it has some problems. but overall a very nice 
 game. my grandfather was in ww2 and has told me a ton of stories about it. so naturally i am into 
 ww2 games. first, let me say, the main difference between this game and others like it is that 
 you are a paratrooper. you jump out of airplanes onto the battlefield. it is a whole lot of fun 
 to parachute to the ground and have a wide view of the battlefield and then land and get right 
 into the fighting. you have markers on the ground with green smoke. so you can pick from various 
 spots to land in. it is tricky to land since you have to hit the spacebar at just the right moment 
 or you will get a botched landing. once you hit the ground there is tons of stuff to do. like the 
 other medal of honor games, you have ai controlled squad members, and a compass that points out 
 your objectives. like planting explosives on enemy artillery and stuff like that. it's a great 
 game and an excellent choice for guys with new vista computers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JKL06
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Finally another addition to one of the best World War two shooters ever, well at least it was. 
 After I installed this game i got around at playing and i was stunned by how good the graphics 
 were, but unfortunately thats about all that i was really impressed with. Lets start with the bad 
 things. First off i noticed that the story is really unconnected. EA didn't really take enough 
 time to develop a good story. Medal of Honor Pacific Assault for example had a pretty good story 
 attached with the game play but here it feels dull. Second there are a lot of glitches in the game. 
 When you kill an enemy soldier sometimes their body will warp into some weird dimension that looks... well..... dumb. 
 The enemies will also just appear out of nowhere. If you look closely you can see that they spawn 
 at a certain point of the map and if you watch that place you'll see them just appear out of the 
 blue. Problem 3, it took me 3 and a half hours to complete the game on easy, and on the hardest 
 difficulty it adds about 15 minutes to each level which is disappointing, only 6 levels!! The weapons 
 upgrades were also somewhat repetitive. Overall it is still a fun experience and will have you 
 coming back to play it with its good graphics, great weapons, and a good 3 hours of your time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Human_Flaw
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor: Airborne is hard to describe. It has a lot of positives like the graphics (Unreal 
 Engine 3) , superb sound design, the ability to paradrop into any part of the map you choose and 
 mostly non-linear game play that resembles MP in a lot of respects.
  
  However, the negatives unfortunately outweigh the positives.
  
  -SP game is way to short (6 
 levels)
  -Enemies respawn unless you push forward
  -AI for enemies and team mates isn't that advanced
  -Enemy AI cheats (speed, accuracy and tweaked 
 animations)
  -No quick save (console port limitation)
  -Repetitive game play in more ways than one
  
  BOTTOM LINE: All the window dressings of 2007-era 
 graphics can't cover up the ugly design warts of 1990s-era style shooters like respawning enemies 
 and cheating AI.
  
  The game is fun for a while, but becomes very tedious and frustrating due to it being designed 
 for casual, console gamers.
  
  If you are a Medal of Honor fan, wait until this game is in the $19.99 price range six months from 
 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sboesel
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  I waited patiently for this title to release. I have played every WWII genre game since EA's first 
 release that set the bar for WWII firts person shooters, Allied Assault. I have grown tired of 
 COD 2 and while I still play it I longed for a new adventure. I pre ordered this game and showed 
 up multiple times on launch day to see if it arrived. When it did I took it home eager to get the 
 mission started. I then noticed that my PC needed to be upgraded to to my aging ATi 850XT. So I 
 shelled out another $300 for a NVidia 8800GTS. When it finally arrived I was thrilled to be playing 
 the SP which was ok, but was trying to learn and take in the whole experience before heading to 
 MP. When the day arrived that I decided to jump in the MP aspect, I was sorely disappointed. There 
 are no dedicated servers, no custom names, so no real support for clans etc. The MP lags like crazy 
 and the match making aspect is horrible. Suffice to say basically MP doesn't exist in this game.
 
  
  Save your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatdu4
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  Great graphics as well as balanced gameplay. Great replayability because of the open concept of 
 the levels. Many achievments and VERY fulifilling game. Gun upgrades help the game evolve as you 
 play it, and its always fun going in SLOW MOTION. Explosions are breathtaking with surround sound, 
 my roomies thought we were being bombed lol. I reccomend this game to anyone who loves shooters 
 or WWII games. I feel that the review given by Gamespot is totally unreliable for this game, becasue 
 ALL levels are fantastic, depends on the way you wish to complete the objectives
  
  PLAY THIS GAME IF YOU LIKE WW2 SHOOTERS!
  
  P. S. Gammon grenades are the WHIP! lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warpld
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 5:38 am PT
Review:  Just in short, Medal of Honor Airborne is a densely packed with quality content title. It's action 
 is believeable and tense (thanks mainly to the checkpoint system) and you get to see some real 
 nice levels, the final one being a masterpiece - parachuting out of the crumbling plane over the 
 spiring tower in the middle of the fray is a scene I will remember for life.
  
  Graphics really appealed to me and the war sounded authentic. There is even little blood this time 
 which is new to the CoD and MoH series but still war seems somehow sterile and... clean. Models 
 are not damaged when hit by bullets and even rockets and that is something that would really make 
 WW2 games more inspiring.
  
  Airborne also delivers great multiplayer which is fast and comes close to the first Call of Duty 
 which is great IMO.
  
  The only real downfall of the game is how short the single campaign is. Experienced players would 
 probably sear through it in less than 6 hours. Of course that's why the game is so intense - crap 
 has been cut off. Still if there were twice as many levels, everything would have been great.
 
  
  Speaking of levels, for the first time they are not linear. Though not presented perfectly, jumping 
 off the plane each time and choosing (partially) where to land creates a nice Commandos feeling. 
 At some point it appeared to me that Striking Force levels should have been made like this and 
 it would have saved the game.
  
  Anyway, Airborne to me is a nice casual title with few pretentions which leaves little space for 
 disappointments and that's probably what makes the game good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: St-Aries
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 20, 2007 2:10 am PT
Review:  the game is good ... although it has only like 6-7 missions but fun to play ... you really feel 
 like an US airborne paratrooper .. the jump think is good ... but it really needs a good graphics 
 card... coz it doesn't only affects the graphics .. the gameplay too ... if u have bad graphics 
 card.... youre friends wont attack the enemy and sometimes the enemy will stand near you and doesn't 
 shoots you .. and at the jump it really gets slow ... u dont know were will u land ... but in general 
 ... its a good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bLiNCks
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  I have played all games of the medal of honor series.
  The first one ( allied assault ) was definitly the blast, fantastic campaign and online gaming.
 
  Pacific assault was ok, but not that kind of blast the first one was.
  And now comes Airborn, with fantastic graphics and a very nice gameplay. The motion blur addition 
 is pretty awsome, as well as the new taking cover system.
  The game is a bit hard, you cannot try to be chuck norris like on the other ones, you actually 
 have to take cover, shoot, advance a bit, take cover again, etc..
  The AI is ok, sometimes buggy but pretty nice overal.
  The parachute system is nice, you can 
 land on every part of the map (better to be on the safe zones) , this feature makes the make pretty 
 much not linear like the other ones. you get certain missions on every map, and you can complete 
 them on the order you want usually.
  The sound is nice and emmersive as well.
  
  The only reason this game is not a big BLAST, is because it is more of the same, the same old medal 
 of honor, it doesn't innovate much like Call of Duty did, and the WW2 theme is pretty much beaten.
 
  If you are a FPS and medal of honor fun, and think you can handle another WW2 FPS game, then you 
 should definatly get this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: estman
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  The ability of parachuting in is wonderful, but doesn't save the game. Game also ends pretty quickly.
 
  Not to mention the Axis troops aren't very accurate and the game is totally wasted by someones 
 idea (who probably smokes weed) to add &uuml; ber killer soldiers on axis side. The so called Nazi 
 Storm Elite which show up in later part of game. U end up fighting around 10 of those in the end 
 .
  And Waffen-SS soldiers have black hats with Wehrmacht insignia, maybe doesn't bother a standard 
 player, but sure bugs me.
  A game that could be very wonderful if made little longer, and if the development team hires them 
 self a expert on the looks of axis uniforms and soldier types. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pentit
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  This game is definitively better than the older Medal of Honor, but it's not quite good as I was 
 expecting. Of course, there are some good and some bad things in this game. I will try to describe 
 this game from my point of view and you decide what things are good and what aren't.
  
  At the beginning you will notice that there are no intro for this game, immediately you are in 
 the main menu. EA maybe thinks that intro is not necessary because this is another WWII game, but 
 especially because it is Airborne it can be found some good intro from WWII history.
  When you start the campaign there are six missions (for me that's a huge mistake to put so little 
 missions) and before every mission you have briefing about your tasks and you can choose your weapon. 
 Every mission starts from the airplane (of course :) ) and you are jumping in the middle of the 
 enemy territory. You have a few spots which are recommended for landing, but you can land where 
 ever you want but than you will have to fight your way to find your allies. First two missions 
 are in Italy, then one is in France, one in Holland and two in Germany. Of course, every time you 
 start the mission the game is saved and because there is a couple of tasks in every mission, every 
 time when you finished a task, game is saved. It's interesting that when you die, you will continue 
 from the last saved checkpoint by jumping from airplane, so you can pick to land near the other 
 tasks.
  In case of weapons, beside standard Thompson and MP40 there are some good weapons to pick. But 
 what is interesting is that you can upgrade your weapons, for example, Thompson can get some extra 
 rounds or better zoom etc.
  For technical issues, I must say that graphic and sound are great. When you install the game, it 
 will install PhysX, never mind if you don't have the card but it seems that the game must install 
 some components for it. But even without PhysX the graphic is great. Faces of soldiers, their clothes, 
 bullets everything looks realistic. The way on which germans are falling when you kill them it's 
 new in first-person shooter, and when I say new I mean good.
  Sound is also very well in the game. Sound of your own footsteps, changing the clip, sound of parachute 
 is very well.
  
  Like I said, only what I don't like in this game is that it's too short. There are only six missions, 
 and they are not so good. I'm saying this because for this graphic and this engine of the game, 
 there must be more and better missions than this ones. All in all, good game, worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShortCutToHell
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2007 1:43 am PT
Review:  The game is TOO SHORT : ( ( Single player maps are looking good but are too small. Nice thought upgrading 
 weapons. Still some weapons form World War 2 are missing. It is verry realistic. One thing still 
 bothers me: Infinitepistol rounds. No knife? Com' on... Nice sniper scope reflection. The AI is 
 great. Hope Call of Duty 4 will not be so short. From the movies I saw, Call of Duty 4 looks more 
 arcade than Medal of Honnor: Airborne. Until now is the best game of the Medal of Honor Series. 
 The game is no match for Crysis. Crysis RULEZ!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: graham_1491
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 18, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Maybe it's because I purchased this game immediately after playing Call Of Duty 2, probably my 
 favorite shooter to date because of its realistic game play and atmosphere, but this game is not 
 living up to my expectations.
  
  The airborne drop is an interesting idea, but really does not live up to the promise. The function 
 gives you some options in where you start the level from, and the design allows you to choose the 
 order in which you attack some of your objectives, the level design still funnels you through certain 
 gateways just like any standard shooter.
  
  The most annoying aspects of the game come in the enemy's AI and spawning routines. EA has built 
 an AI system that drives enemy and friendly soldiers to seek certain areas and types of cover based 
 on a points system. This works very well overall, although there is the occasional case of a soldier 
 running into the center of an enemy fire base, but then again, I've done that too. What I find 
 so frustrating is that the enemy AI is able to sense your mere presence from 200 yards and either 
 hide or start shooting directly at you, even if you are peering at the back of their head, from 
 cover, through a sniper's sight. And furthermore, you become the one and only apparent target of 
 almost any soldier in your field of view. There could be 5 allied soldiers standing 3 feet from 
 them, but they are only interested in you. The other terribly annoying thing is the way the game 
 spawns enemies. You can clear out an area from a distance, only to have the area repopulate as 
 soon as you cross a trigger point. Look no further than the second level, Avalanche. You've cleared 
 out the enemy, made all your goals, when suddenly the area you are playing with is ringed by enemy 
 soldiers, literally out of nowhere. This is terribly annoying and very unrealistic.
  
  Other than that, the overall game play is good, not great. Rather than feeling immersed in a WW2 
 battle I find myself wondering where the game is going to spawn more enemies, just like I wondered 
 where they would pop up when I hit the switch in the original DOOM. With each successive level 
 you are matched with increasingly more difficult enemies. But this is really just an increase in 
 the number of hit points, not in their tactics, until in the later levels it is like fighting a 
 boss level. Superhuman Nazis with rocket launchers that you have to lob grenades at to kill. I'm 
 waiting for the giant Nazi monster experiment to come busting out of the wall with a machine gun 
 for a hand and a rocket launcher embedded in his chest. Other nits include the very video arcade 
 way of upgrading your weapons where your little gun icon slowly fills as you add up kills in order 
 to get weapon upgrades. I don't mind the theory, but the presentation should be invisible in gameplay. 
 Also a problem, hit detection is poor. I've stood directly in front of an enemy soldier and only 
 hit every 3 or 5 rounds. Lastly, the health system is workable, a hybrid mix or health packs and 
 recovery. Frankly though the recovery model used in Call Of Duty 2 is far superior and less invasive 
 to the game play. Let's face it, you get his by a machine gun, you tend to die on the battlefield. 
 But having to run around to find a health pack to theoretically staunch the blood flow blows the 
 whole rythm of the game rather than having to pull back a little and take a brief breather.
  
  The game is fine for a console type run and gun. But to be taken as a serious period shooter 
 it falls well short in execution and vision. Save your money and replay Call Of Duty 2 for a far 
 superior WW2 experience. Its a pity that Infinity Ward and Activision have walked away from the 
 WW2 genre in favor of a modern shooter in Call of Duty 4, because Medal Of Honor: Airborne's chute 
 didn't open on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiogoGracia
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  next generation game with a good atmosphere in the game a lot of gun shoots, when you shoot somebody 
 the camera goes up
  
  when you shoot the crossair opens too much
  
  i think this is a join of call of duty and medal of honor, the emotion of call of duty and some 
 aspects of the medal of honor
  
  the jogability isnt perfect because is similiar as the call of duty
  the medal of honor jogability 
 is much better
  
  great missions
  
  the IA is great with a lot of comunication of the troops
  
  a lot of war guns shoots
  
 
  maps with a goods details 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iXBuRny
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  Now I haven't been too fond of the Medal of Honor series I must say, so when I saw this game was 
 coming out, I didn't give it much thought. Then I watched the trailers for it, and it caught my 
 eye. Then the demo came out. I must say wow! I knew I had to have this game. I even pre ordered 
 it and got a free battlefield 2 game to boot! From the moment I started playing this game I knew 
 that this game was totally worth the money! This has been the most enjoyable game I have played 
 in a LOOONG time! I am hooked. The graphics are awesome, the gameplay is even better. I think I 
 must say for as much as I loved Call of Duty, I actually like this game better. Now I cant say 
 anything for the multiplayer portion of this game because I'm too involved with Single player! 
 So if you are looking for an awesome first person shooter war game, run now and pick it up!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hautarzt
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  cons:
  yes, its way too short. agreed. 8 hours an youre through.
  yes, there's no story. a fact thats actually appalling in the classic single player shooter genre.
 
  haven't tried the multiplayer yet. can't connect to any server so far. 12 players seems a little 
 reduced, but then the maps are fairly small (but impressive on the visuals though) .
  
  if you're totally not interested in the ww2 topic, this game might just be interesting and nothing 
 more.
  
  so why buy this game?
  
  immersion. ambience. adrenalin!
  this IS the last battle scene of private ryan. the graphics are stunning, lighting and incredible 
 details make you nearly forget the pumping stress around you. the excavation site visuals truly 
 fascinated me like few other games. and if you've played market garden in a hundred games before, 
 THIS one here takes the cake. (visually and ambience wise. tactical gameplay is another story) .
 
  
  the last flak tower level is a jewel of virtual surrealism! just stand there and soak the chaos 
 in. its truly overwhelming (apart from a slightly seen before liftshaft/basement shootout) . IMHO, 
 i see the entire level design (and game ambience) as a surreal, absurd nightmare in steven spielberg 
 style. total chaos. nobody of your buddies knows what to do, neither does the AI. it feels like 
 absolute mayhem, the hatred and aggression of the german AI feels very real. theres 2 reactions 
 one might (and should) have : get lost in chaos and be paralyzed, or: soak into the bloodrush and 
 dive into the massacre. and a massacre it is. i haven't been so aggression- and stressdriven since 
 quake 3.
  
  the sound is the true marvel of this game. if you thought saving private ryan sets the bar. THIS 
 game lets you feel it in 3 dimensions. yes, ALL other post ryan games had the same effects. but 
 airborne exaggerates at the just the right spots. (i. e tank cannon, or grenades) . if you have a 
 sound fetish. THIS is your game.
  (allthough the MP40 sound is plain misplaced) .
  
  the dumb AI is of no concern. they do their job: dive for cover, occasionally retreat, throw their 
 grenades. if youre stormed by 200 SS troopers, you dont care if they use cunning tactics or not. 
 you wet your pants, thats just plain instinct.
  
  the uebernazi at end: well, if you like indiana jones and hellboy, you will just smile at the little 
 hint. this game walks the fine stilistical balance between realistic enough and slightly exaggerated 
 to give it more surreal spice. wonderful.
  
  the key to this game is (for me it was) : seeing it as an offline multiplayer (simplified DoD source 
 style) game with bots, to experience the blast of war chaos. however. twice as many levels, a solid 
 mutiplayer (WITH LAN SUPPORT PLEASE) , and this game will be remembered forever. right now, it will 
 surely fade away.. a pity.
  
  i'm truly no EA fan. but for this game there is only one thing to say:
  its beautiful.
  11 
 out of 10 points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acetken
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 11:25 pm PT
Review:  First thing's first. This is exactly what you'd expect from an EA series. Core gameplay is there, 
 but so are about a million bugs and a general lack of polish.
  
  The Pros:
  - Level up system for the weapons is actually kind of fun
  - Plenty of different kinds of weapons
 
  - Serviceable graphics
  - Great sound
  - Pretty good MP, but...
  
  The Cons:
  - No LAN play?
  - Be as silent as you want. No matter how far away you are from an enemy, they 
 know you're there instantly and have MUCH better aim than you ever will. Prepare for many frustrating 
 reloads where your entire body was behind a wall, but you got picked off anyway. This makes the 
 game MUCH harder than it would be otherwise and is the first in a long time to have me growling 
 in utter frustration.
  - Other than their aim, the AI is dumb as a post and rushes you continually for no reason.
  - 
 Tracers sometimes just stay there for no reason.
  - No AA? What?! In 2007? Inexcusable.
  - No training telling you how to land. (Just WHERE to land)
  - No point whatsoever to discovering 
 any of the special jump areas.
  - Definitely a console port.
  - Incredibly short. (And no, gameplay time added from 30+ deaths per level due to amazing omniscient 
 enemies does not count)
  
  All in all, rent it for your 360 if you're really bored. Don't bother to purchase for the PC. Just 
 more EA shovelware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whateve_r
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 10:26 pm PT
Review:  You Guys were expecting too much out of this Game ? I doubt EA actually made this Game for the 
 Fans of the Genre from the past few years. This Game was purely made to attract new Gamers to the 
 scene. We have had loads of World War II shooters and i doubt any guy who has play MOH : Allied 
 Assault and it's expansions, MOH : Pacific Assault, Call Of Duty I &amp; II &amp; III (Console 
 Exclusive) would want to go for another WW2 Shooter anymore. This Game has it's Faults, maybe too 
 many but it delivers what it promises. It's the Fun Factor that will leave you in awe in the beginning 
 and ending of every Mission. The First Three missions are linear, simple and straight forward. 
 When you reach the Third Mission, you know that the real Game has taken off. The Music, the adrenalin 
 rush is what gets the Game going later on. The Good :
  
  The Music, The Graphics, The Level Design and THE GUNS !!. The Music as you many expect from EA 
 has been delivered and every one will be reminded of the Band Of Brothers Music. There are times 
 in Certain levels when the Background Score really picks up and the situation is portrayed beautifully 
 through the Music. Eg. Landing in Market Garden, seeing Hundreds of Airborne Troops landing together 
 around and the amazing Music just leaves you in awe of the magnitude and beauty of the situation 
 around you. In the Last mission, probably IMHO the best Beginning ever to a Last Mission ever in 
 a Game. The only Words that come out is, No f%^in way !!! Since the Game is made on the UE3, you 
 can expect Great things from it and it delivers. The Cities are gorgeously shown, the Player Models 
 also look Fabulous. If you really want to know what i am talking about, just zoom in with a Sniper 
 Rifle on a German Soldier and see the expression on his face while shooting or while getting shot 
 at or while giving commands to his fellow mates. The Levels looks beautiful too, the last three 
 levels of the Game are the best looking levels i have ever seen in a long time.
  
  The Bad :
  
  For new players it has to be the AI : The AI run fast and mean, spawn out of places 
 you have already passed. They are coming in huge lots and Novice players will usually get ambushed 
 badly. Secondly, the recoil on the Guns, people appreciate the Upgrade system but i feel, shouldn't 
 it been the other way around ? How can you expect new players to actually start off with a Gun 
 which has insane recoil, no registration at times. Instead people should have had the Upgraded 
 Guns and they should have deteriorated with time if the player used it more often. So he should 
 dropped that gun which is Jammed and what not and go for another Gun. Maybe i am talking out of 
 my ar$e but give me a break, what the point from going from Insane to Easy, it's always the other 
 way around isn't it ?
  
  The Rag Doll physics are all great and what not, but as everyone has heard of the infamous Stretch 
 Bug, well it's not really common but whenever you see it, it's kinda fugly. But don't worry go 
 a 4 yards ahead and turn back and the 100's Nazi's you killed will disappear in a jiffy. So for 
 the Bad, you have A gun that recoils insanely, Enemies who don't get shot too often with the insane 
 recoil guns, enemies who charging at you so fast as if they have boosters on their feet or something. 
 This all makes for a painful beginning for a beginner. But alas, if you get a hang of it. You will 
 the best time of your life in the end of the Game.
  
  Also you will need a good PC to run this Game, the only way you will be either drawn into the Game 
 is if you have a good PC or you have a Xbox 360.
  
  My Rig :
  
  Abit IP-35 Pro Motherboard
  E4300 @ 3.2GHz
  Cell Shocks 2GB Ram 445MHz @ 4-4-4-12
  eVGA 8800GTS 
 640MB Super Clocked 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fkhashouf
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 17, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Well in short I hate it. Why the hell there is no LAN multiplayer in the game, I am buying the 
 game to enjoy with my friends at our LAN Parties.
  
  The Game does seem to capture the WW2 feeling, but since it is the only new one out there you would 
 expect more. Guns aiming is not that good to be honest, and I don't feel the game connects during 
 the fighting; it is a little too floaty for my taste (Yes I am COD 2 Fan) , but was looking forward 
 to this.
  
  Yet the biggest downside was the LAN gaming feature; To me this sucks and the fact that it was 
 not mentioned on the box I think EA deserves a lawsuit.
  
  Over and out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unreal6666
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  I just finished the singleplayer portion of the game and here is my review.
  
  Pros:
  
  NIce graphics
  Amazing animation
  Super detailed modeling and textures.
  Ennemy Ai is somewhat 
 good or really good at times.
  Nice ragdoll settings in the game the guy falls to their death like they should.
  Weapons are 
 fun to use and realistic.
  
  Cons:
  
  Must have a fairly decent GPU to push the game at good settings.
  
  No destructible envrionment... yes 
 wood crate are still stronger than tank armor... go figure...
  
  Very short campaign... if you are really good it's a 8 hour game.... i figure i put maybe 15 hrs 
 into it....
  
  This is not really a tactical game ... if you plan on being tactical it's gonna take some time to 
 beat the game.. you basicaly have to rush in and spray whatever you see.
  
  Your AI friends are no good... they always work with triggers.... meaning that if you do not do something 
 first they will not fight the ennemy.. if you trigger an event then they join the fight so you are 
 pretty much on your own most of the time really.
  
  Multiplayer is a disaster and not finished EA promised a patch to enable ranked play .
  
  There 
 is a story but it seems that it does not really draw you in like previous MoH games or call of 
 duty did.
  
  IF you are planning on playing this you should wait for the bargain bin version of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FoXpeed
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2007 4:52 am PT
Review:  The Goods:
  It has a new focusing concept on details for a war game, and yet it flows smooth on moderate specs. 
 Lights and shades makes it almost alive. Refelxes and image distort during running is the most 
 realistic I have ever seen yet. The idea of starting the game from the air is like choosing the 
 spot of the mission map to start on. The Hints:
  Some small hints about smoke shapes and fire flashes during combat. Other hint about the game size 
 and consequently the installation time, but it happens only once. In conclusion, EA has made a 
 new success. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagikTrik
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  Unfortunately now, I've become slightly addicted to MOHA : (
  I admit the aiming &amp; accuracy is a bit different but that's only because it's more realistic 
 than usual. Once you get used to the way the weapons fire &amp; the accuracy falls it's definitely 
 close to a 10! If your considering the purchase, it's well worth it in my opinion. You have the 
 basic underlying structure of a Military flavored FPS but the small tweaks that were made definitely 
 put it over your standard, run of the mill shooter. Lots &amp; lots of cover so like they say in 
 the descriptions, stopping to shoot is not a problem, everywhere you go there is at least 4 or 
 5 different options to use as cover. Controls are nice &amp; mostly standard but the few differences 
 make the gameplay better &amp; more intuitive once you get accustomed to those controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monowasp
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  This EA Medal Of Honor for PC brings back memories to the first MoH game I played, the storyline 
 isn't there but the atmosphere sure is. The graphics are wellbalanced, the audio is excellent, 
 and when rounds in your gun pump out heat you feel like you are there... I would like to say that 
 this MoH Airborne has some similarities to Call Of Duty 2; you are thrown into the action ASAP 
 and start to try to find your way around. The scenery is great, the AI OK, this isn't CRYSIS or 
 anything like that. This is FPS the old way, shoot first, ask questions later... Good job EA... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkGuts
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2007 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: The graphics of this game are wonderful with very good maps on single player and models 
 of characters and weapons who were beyond my imagination before i played this game. The sense of 
 falling down from the plane is very realistic and I loved it from the first time i did it in the 
 training jumps. (10/10)
  Sound: The sound of the game is the only little disadvantage. However it's pretty good, realistic 
 and the music from older MOH games makes me remember the moments I had in them. When a level started 
 I wanted to pick up my BAR and do some head-shots!! YEAH! That's the spirit!. On the other hand 
 some weapons don't have very good sound and you understand this in the first five minutes. (9/10)
 
  Gameplay: The game starts very good when you do the training jumps. At this moment I couldn't believe 
 what is was playing. When finally I realized that I had a game like this on my PC I started the 
 first mission. The first four missions are good but not something extraordinary. From these missions 
 I can remember two thing. First when who get ready to jump and a man in front of you is hearted. He 
 stands up when everybody care for him and tell him not to jump and he says I'm jumping with you 
 guys! (what a feeling in that moment) and the second is when you are 5 vs many Nazi soldiers and 
 the leader of the Squad when a man asks him if they should go, he answers Of course we're going! We 
 are Airborne!! .In the other missions there are so many good moment that it would be at least meaningless 
 to tell them. However one note :the last level of the game is the best that I have ever seen in 
 a game of WWII. That's all about the single player. Generally the weapons are very realistic and 
 every one of them has it's advantage and it's disadvantage .However when a mission starts you choose 
 2 of them so you can have a good set. The new lean system that airborne has is very good and easy 
 to use by anyone. The target of the weapons is very big so you can't do the RAMBO like in other 
 games and you must use the aim system (right click) to be effective in far distances. Furthermore 
 weapons can take special abilities like better aim, faster reload, more melee damage etc. Like some 
 other games of this kind (WWII FPS) this game is small (a little longer would be better) and it takes 
 from six to eight hours to finish it. (10/10) Personal Opinion: I think this game hasn't many new 
 things to show but at least shows all the older in a better way. I don't expect anyone to give up 
 COD to play MOH: A because EA has done many mistakes in the past and the gamers are a bit afraid 
 of MOH games. I think that everybody should try it to understand if it's good or not.
  Ten out of ten from a big WWII games fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackie103
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  I am now playing Medal of Honor :Airborne for the third time around. EA has out done themselves. This 
 is one fine game despite some rather hoo
  hum reviews and the fact that the gamer cannot save or quick load games.
  The fighting is so 
 intense one does not have time to save a game spot.
  Bullets slice the air around you just like the real thing. Grenades can be cooked. The weapons are 
 athentic The AI's are highly intelligent. Conversations with your team mates are never dull nor 
 do the AI constantly say the same obnoxious words all the time. Like so many other pitiful WW II 
 shooter games. The graphics are fabulous. The sound is perfect. I have not crashed one time. Also there 
 is a a great history lesson
  in this game. It was well researched by the developer. Other reviewers of course are entitled to 
 their opinions, just like I am. Medal of Honor: Airborne is
  absolutely the best new WW II game on the market as of late. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rmj
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 15, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  The first three missions are very fun very realistic!! HUSKY, AVALANCHE, NEPTUNE, then there is 
 MArket garden! great mission till we get to the bridge! then it start, s sucking ! I have a sniper 
 rifle! its like i, m drunk? No matter if i, m standing or prone? whats up with that? And even worse 
 is the Panzerfaust soldiers, the guys with the ROCKETS can send a rocket right between my eyes 
 no matter where they are!?? the next mission isn, t so bad! just snipe the snipers! untill u get 
 in the Train yard then this game SUCKS BIG TIME! UBER SOLDIER he is not using any ARMOR but 3 grandes 
 can not kill him! nor a 30 clip of a 45 cal 1911??? whats up with that? I have to come up be hind 
 them and unload 3 shot gun shells at 4 feet in there head to kill them???? whats up with that? 
 this game could have knocked Call of Duty off the best FPS military game but no they droped the 
 ball and asked us all to bend over and pick up the soap! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TreadMeat
Rating: 1.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Questionable AI and bullet immune enemies make this game one of the worst I've played in a while. 
 While most of the enemies are easy to dispatch others can only make you think What is my gun shooting? 
 It seems the good folk who made this game seem to believe that a shotgun isn't all that powerful 
 from two feet away.
  
  Realism is a large point in FPS games, and EA completely ignored it. Something we should come to 
 expect from the company who has brought us the same games... over... and over... and over again.
 
  
  I'd say I look forward to a new title from EA, but, they would probably milk that cow until it 
 was weeks past dead as well.
  
  At least it's pretty... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: szabig
Rating: 1.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  The game sucks actually the only reason I write this review to tell people to RENT IT first and 
 don't listen to gamespot , probably they are paid off or something but they tend to overrate the 
 big budget games like Bioshock which is a great game but defenitely not 9... I don't care how much 
 they worked on it or how big budget was its still CRAP! They wanted to beat call of duty 2 with 
 this? Seriously?
  
  I could analise how bad it is but it's pointless....
  
  RENT IT and see it yourself !
  
  Some guys were rating this game 10 or 9.5 LOL! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CozmoQ
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 14, 2007 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Ok, You've heard the pros - weapon upgrades, nice lighting system, original para-drop idea, decent 
 animations. Now, lets talk about everything else. Very few enemies drop their weapons (like a game 
 from the 90s) , after you clear some rooms, enemies literally spawn right behind you. Sometimes, 
 even when you are looking at the spawn area! There is almost NO scripting, and by that, I mean 
 there is literally almost NO story to be had in Airborne, save for cursory briefings and about 
 3 scenes where people talk to you in the game. The worst part is the total lack of quick save, 
 or even SAVE other than checkpoints. Don't even try to finish this game on extreme difficulty without 
 cheating. Enemies blind-fire with EXTREME accuracy, and towards the end of the game, the MG-42 
 uber-nazi BOSSES (yes, you heard me right, BOSSES in a MOH game! AND NOT COOL BOSSES.) ruin everything. 
 We're talking nazis with apparently kevlar for skin and titanium bones, weilding MG-42s. The problem 
 is that they can see 180 degrees, and have NO turn animation. So, if you flank one, they will see 
 you LITERALLY INSTANTLY and open fire. Getting caught in ONE burst from an mg-42 on hard can kill 
 you, and when you couple that with the fact that ALL THE ENEMIES come back if you die and redrop, 
 regardless of which ones you already killed, you get a game that is HONESTLY JUST PATHETIC. Did 
 I mention the singeplayer campaign is only 6 very short missions? Multiplayer is a complete joke 
 because of axis lame-a$$es who just camp one spot with sniper rifles and PICK YOU OFF BEFORE YOU 
 HIT THE GROUND. This is, overall, one of the least satisfying WWII shooters I have ever played. 
 I think it's awful that gamespot gave this thing even a 7.0. It's misleading people into thinking 
 this game is at least 50% good. I WANT MY MONEY BACK. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rashaed
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 14, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Who says gamers are tired of WW2 games. MOH: Airborne can be added to the long
  list of good WW2 FPS.
  Graphics: 9/10
  Top notch stuff here. Building, NPCs, weapons, weapons 
 fire and explosions all look great on my system (AMD 4000+, 2GB RAM, 7800GTX) . On the mission were 
 you first land in a huge factory (Operation Varsity) , take a look around the place and the war-torn 
 town outside. Makes you reflect on the great graphics (like Oblivion did) and the whole concept 
 of modern warfare. Anyways, no complaints here.
  Sound: 8/10
  As usual, the music helps draw you into game and motivates you the finish the mission. Voice acting 
 is very well done. Your fellow soldiers say the right stuff at right time to keep you on task. 
 I think the enemies could have been given a few more phrases. I got a little tired of hearing
 
  Americana! all the time. I will also say that some the weapons sound a little weak, but it's no 
 big deal.
  Story: 10/10
  It's about 82nd Airborne during WW2. Drop in and kill some Germans. Enough said.
  Controls: 
 10/10
  Without the squad tactics from Pacific Assault, the controls are simplified and pretty comfortable. 
 It took me less than 15 minutes to learn the controls unique to the game.
  Gameplay: 7/10
  The GOOD: Intense firefights. Great for the run n' gunners, snipers and heavy weapons gamers. Fellow 
 soldiers are a big help even though you can't give them orders like Pacific Assault. Weapons can 
 be upgraded making the sweet kills even sweeter. Non-linear gameplay. Land where you want and go 
 where you want. Multiplayer is a lot fun too.
  The BAD: You better have a computer that can run this game. No quick save, just checkpoints (not 
 so bad where you get the chance to drop in again for your wings) . Worst of all, incredibly SHORT!! 
 Only 6 to 7 hours of gameplay. I have read that some gamers finished the game in one sitting. I 
 did it in 2. The final mission, in a effort to make it harder than the rest, gets silly. Felt more 
 like Wolfenstein than MOH. Also, the hit detection seems a little off for some weapons.
  Overall 7/10
  MOH: Airborne is a good game and is worth your time even though it won't take that 
 much time. If you want to make it last, do one mission a day. I hope there is an expansion pack 
 in the works. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreddlock907
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Review of the PC VERSION of the game:
  
  There are many WWII games out there, each with its very own style and key element: Call of Duty 
 2 with its epic story, Brothers in Arms with its tactical element, etc. That said each new WWII 
 game is carefully scrutinized and weighed and measured - and its safe to say that MOH: A adds a 
 new great title to the top 3 WWII FPS games out there.
  The game is not your typical gung-ho american super soldiers, but rather a very "Band of Brothers"-like 
 storyline that displays what war is like: brutal, merciless and nothing for lone wolves.
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  The game is divided into missions, each starting out with a ingame graphics scene 
 of the troops sitting in a briefing tent. An officer briefs the troops using intel, photographs 
 and map displaying the landing zone and pointing out safe landing zones. These zones are places 
 where the larger part of the troops will land, but of course you are free to land anywhere you 
 like. After the briefing you will pick your gear and start the mission sitting aboard a troop carrier 
 with your comrades chattering and commenting the situation below. As soon as the green light comes 
 on you and your fellow comrades go for the jump. This is all in ingame graphics and very immersive. 
 As soon as you exit the plane the reason for the briefing becomes obvious: you can pick your landing 
 spot and basically land anywhere on the map. Of course landing in the thick of a german garrison 
 might not work too well as you can think. Another element is the landing - you have to pick a spot 
 that you can land on safely - if your parachute gets caught in a tree, if you botch your landing 
 by tripping over wire, if you land on a roof and fall off it, if you don't land perfectly - you 
 will need a moment to gather yourself, exposing yourself to enemy fire.
  As soon as you hit the ground though, everything becomes familiar - the controls are easy to learn, 
 the difficulty is well set. You and your squad have a set of objectives to fulfill, but the order 
 you achieve these in is your own to choose. The enemies range from italian mercenaries to german 
 elite troops - each fighting with a different set of skills - the italians shooting sloppy and 
 fleeing quickly, the elite troops shooting precise, using grenades and never retreating.
  One thing to note is the customizing of weaponry - this does not mean that you can customize your 
 weapons in any way you like - the more you use a weapon the higher your skill with it gets and 
 if you hit a certain skill level you will receive a custom stock (for less recoil) , a custom barrel 
 (for better precision) or a similar piece of equipment. These customizations can also be seen ingame 
 and make this feature not only an intelligent way of "experience" gathering, but also add to the 
 atmosphere by making your character a hardened veteran who modifies the weapons for his use over 
 time.
  You usually fight with intelligent comrades, shooting and fighting along with you. What makes this 
 special is that these soldiers work intelligently, using cover, throwing grenades and generally 
 really supporting you. You usually also fight over medium range, sometimes going for long range 
 kills with a sniper rifle and sometimes battling it out in close quarters combat using your buttstock 
 and fists. This makes combat very different as the maps are very versatile in general - houses 
 can be entered and many houses have pathways/rooms stacked with detailed furniture that are not 
 directly needed (ie. a cellars, back rooms,...) for the storyline but add a great deal to the believability 
 of the surroundings.
  
  Graphics 10/10 The graphics are quite outstanding in this game: be it the realistic surfaces, the 
 great models, the textures, the realistic lighting, the smoke effects or the character design - 
 everything in this game is top notch.
  Noteworthy are special effects similar to movies - if a grenade goes off near you your screen turns 
 red and your view gets a bit hazy. If you botch your landing you can see your hands come up to 
 support your fall. If you aim via ironsights the focus is clear the rest is blurry simulating a 
 depth of field. If you sprint your view expands and blurs at the edges - in addition to the shaking 
 view simulating your run this is a great experience.
  Overall the graphics are very well done, nothing out of the ordinary, but very high-end and great 
 looking. Sound 9/10 The sound is pretty much standard WWII sound with weapon sounds and voices 
 being well done. What is notable is that each nationality can be identified by language - and the 
 germans aren't continueously yelling "Heil Hitler" but instead really doing battle chatter, screaming 
 about tanks and informing each other about enemy positions.
  Overall the sound is nothing special, but very well done and greatly supporting the action and 
 atmosphere.
  
  Value 10/10 The value you get for your money is very high - a lot of highly exciting missions, 
 a pretty well done storyline and awesome effects and graphics - all included in one of the best 
 WWII games out there at the moment.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt 10/10
  Personally being a huge WWII game fan this one was quite easy to rate for reviewers tilt - a 10 
 out of 10 was the only possible result.
  If you like WWII games - go get this one and start jumping out of planes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyller
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 14, 2007 7:22 am PT
Review:  I own all MOH &amp; COD ... that has been published on the PC ... but this yes the old ones was heavily 
 scripted this is stupid there's no freedom .. it might seem like it.. but after a few minutes you'll 
 realize they just spawn right around you... it quickly kills the fun when you die and do the same 
 to see the EXACT same spawn often from several angels .. this results in some death of the player 
 (btw i really hate a soldier who is covered by 98% cover I'm sitting partially covered with a sniper 
 rifle... guess who has the magic shoot through wooden box and metal drum and hit amazingly gun 
 ... a clue not me...) .. and when you die how does that work ... I'll tell you with an air drop some 
 enemy spawn less ammo and lost some of the guns experience ... yea that seems plausible ... no wait 
 I'm thinking of STUPID ... in short dying doesn't kill you just punish the hell out of you for dying 
 so doing some objectives save (lets say you had to do the dishes or something) and then later resume 
 punishes you about the same .. air drop + all new enemies yay i hate you too!!
  did i mention 1 in bout 20 Germans actually carry guns .. they shoot but very often they don't have 
 anything sometimes a box of ammo all in all a bit like old games go back where you came and puff 
 the monsters you just killed have come back from the dead
  
  +pros: fun idea, weapon upgrade,
  
  -cons: insanely short (bout 20$ an hour ... if your slow) 
 hit boxes ways off, invisible walls everywhere, dumbest AI I've seen this year (your comrades are 
 80% dumber then the Germans and they have the ability to merge into you when you're behind cover 
 trying to shoot) , my god I'm gonna stop here .. there's tons more wrong with this game but i guess 
 I'm barely halfway in to the problems
  
  on another note the demo sold the game ... i bought it stupid stupid me .. i feel really really sad 
 for all who bought this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JeffreyCor
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  This game offers great graphics, etc. but gameplay does not live up to prior Medal of Honor games. 
 The story is very week and not immersive at all. It is surprising given this history of these games 
 that they did not do a better job on this one. The entire training portion is useless as it tells 
 the player nothing of how to play the game, the opposite of the prior titles in the series. There 
 is no between story cutscenes apart from after action reports all in the narrative. This is more 
 of an arcade shooter than a historic first person shooter as it is taged as. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unJdertEakerY
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 8:44 am PT
Review:  This game could have been MUCH better. I just feel that EA games seem to be rushing games out in 
 recent times without giving the game quality much thought. To be fair, this game is based on WW2 
 and you can't seriously expect the storyline to twist much without altering the history
  
  May I suggest to EA to put in an extra effort in producing games and I'm sure the PC gamers would 
 rather want lesser but very addictive games rather than a whole bunch of boring games. Take Rockstar 
 Games as an example, their GTA series is just like EA's Medal of Honor series but all of the games 
 in the GTA series have received very good reviews which just goes to show that IF Ea were to put 
 in the same effort, I'm sure Airborne wouldn't be so bad after all
  
  Anyway, the GS review about weapons not firing accurately should actually be a plus point. If WW2 
 weapons were to have the same deadly accuracy as modern weapons, the world would have been long 
 gone. =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jas592
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  WW2 shooters are a dime a dozen these days and yet some of them still manage to be fun enough to 
 justify the $50 price tag. MOH: Airborne's quality of content does make it worth your gaming dollars, 
 however it won't take you long to beat it. The main thing which seperates this game from the other 
 WW2 games is the airborne premise. At the start of each mission you will descend from a troop transport 
 to a location on the battlefield of your choice. It's an interesting feature and looks cool, but 
 the actual choices of where to drop are limited due to enemy positioning. If you land in the wrong 
 spot you will be surrounded and killed, prompting you to start the jump over again. Still, you 
 do usually have at least two safe zones to choose from as landing zones. This at least gives the 
 illusion of freedom and does provide a somewhat compelling reason to replay the levels. Once on 
 the ground it's pretty much the standard WW2 FPS fare. The enemy AI is pretty good. Certainly no 
 worse than in other WW2 shooters. They sometimes seem to be a little confused by the open ended 
 design. Since you could potentially land and approach your objectives from several angles they 
 don't always seem to know which way to be facing. They do respond well and it's not too distracting 
 most of the time. The fire fights are fun and the cover mechanics are useful and make for intense 
 close quarters gunplay. The missions will be all too familiar to fans of WW2 shooters, but they 
 are in locations I haevn't seen before in a WW2 game making it a little refreshing. If I had to 
 fault it I would only say that it is too short. There are six missions and they can be finished 
 in about 8 hours. There is some replayability here. The various landing zones and the fact that 
 you can alter and upgrade you weapons with experience mean that you may be inclined to play some 
 missions again. The other flaw is the checkpoint save system. It made some area very frustrating. 
 You cna't save at any time. Your game is automatically saved when you complete certain objectives. 
 The graphics look very good. Here are the stats for the rig I played it on: Athlon X2-4200-@.2 
 Ghz, 1 GB 533 MHz RAM, 256 MB 7900GS OC Graphics, and Vista 32 bit. It played well on high settings 
 at 1248x1024 with everything turned all the way up, except post processing at simple. I played 
 at lower resolution than some of the reviews stated because of my monitor, but who really plays 
 at 1900x1600 anyway? It ran much better than the other UR3 engine game I've played, Bio Shock. 
 I've heard it said that it isn't much better than Call of Duty 2 and I think that's very misstated. 
 The per pixel lighting, reflections, highly detailed models, and texture details make this a very 
 good looking game. Some of the set pieces are very detailed and include areas not seen before in 
 WW2 FPS. There were moments when I stayed in one area just to have a second look at the scenery 
 because it was so beautiful. The sound was awesome. The guns sound authentic and the orchestral 
 score is great. Some of the nazi and friendly lines get repetitive, but it hardly ruins the experience.
 
  Overall, this is an enjoyable, good looking, unique take on WW2. It has it's flaws, but they don't 
 take too much away from the experience. If you like killing Nazi's and want to do it in a new way 
 with some freedom to choose how you'll do it ,I recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herodotus2006
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 3:17 am PT
Review:  Yes this really is a console game for the PC. But what game at present, and in the future... yes 
 I'm looking at you CoD4 ... isn't (in the FPS genre anyway) .
  The graphics are superb, though many players have had problems even with high end computer rigs. 
 This game is very CPU-intensive, not just GPU. Some with 8800GTX's have to set the detail on medium. 
 You must have dual-core at least and a 7900GT card to run the game settings on High (though a 8800GTS 
 is desirable) . There are some graphical glitches, like the Mr. Fantastic bug where corpses's limbs 
 can strech out three fett or more (saw a dead trooper stretch all the way from a rooftop to the 
 ground, then bungie back up in MP) .
  Gameplay can be summed up with one word: plain fun ... I know technically that's two, but I just 
 want to make a point. If you're looking for a realistic WWII shooter, look elsewhere. Especially 
 when you get to Level 6 and face the Uber-Nazis with waist-carried MG-42's that take 4 grenades 
 at their feet to bring them down. But, it's fun. Don't compare it to CoD... these are two very different 
 beasts. Mentioning Level 6 brings up the major gripe for this game. There ARE only six levels and 
 should take the average player 8 hours to complete (though some have rushed through in 4... where's 
 the fun in that?) . It has the feel of an expansion pack or a console port... Hmmm, think we've covered 
 that. What makes this worse is the full (and bloated) price tag on the game, which really feels 
 like half a game.
  Multiplayer as it stands is a lot of... yes, you guessed it... fun. As a trooper you must quickly 
 decide on a landing spot to suit your play style, and an egress plan post landing to ensure you 
 have time to catch your breath and formulate a good strategy. There is no LAN support (unforgiveable, 
 really) but there are Dedicated Servers promised for the end of the month to coincide with the 
 game's first patch. And it had better be a pretty big patch, or several smaller, but constantly 
 delivered incremental patches. There are big issues to address here, and if EA wants to keep it's 
 community support it had better deliver, and not just focus on the console market. The same complaints 
 were made to EALA on the release of C&amp; C3 , but that seems to have settled down. I only hope 
 they give the same support to Airborne.
  To summarize, if you'd like something a little fresher than CoD2, and you are tired of WWII than 
 MoHA is definitely worth grabbing. A lot of complaints on svereal Froums by players (such as weapon 
 recoil and hit boxes) are totally unjustified. I've fired these weapons for real, and they do have 
 heavy recoil and are far more inaccurate than Hollywood and other games have portrayed.
  On a closing note, don't believe all the reviews you read. One official review stated there was 
 no blood in the game. Guess what, there is. There's not a lot, but quite often you'll see a German 
 or American blown away accompanied by a spray of the red stuff. To me that means blood. The weapon 
 upgrade system might be gimmicky (and it probably is) , but it adds to the, guess what... fun. On 
 the whole, I think the game is good, and with proper support from EALA, and the Modding community 
 it could just be a lot more. Judge for yourself, just don't believe a lot of what you read... just 
 a little thing called bias enters the equation all too often.
  Cheers,
  H. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnarchyRising
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 13, 2007 1:27 am PT
Review:  I have long since loved the MOH series because of the intense long battles, non linear levels, 
 and killer graphics.
  
  MOH: Airborne isn't a bad game, however, it could have been MUCH better. While GS says the beginning 
 is a bit bland, I found it rather fun.
  
  The weapons upgrade system has been done before in other shooters, but is an awarding thing to 
 have in this particular series. It makes fighting the war seem more realistic as soldiers in real 
 battle gain expertise when using, and getting used to, available weapons.
  
  The graphics are slick and the audio is nearly perfect especially for the weapons (watch the bonus 
 video on weapons audio to see exactly why) .
  
  With all things come a downside and MOH: A has a couple of bad ones:
  
  The worst thing first. 
 The story is VERY short. I found myself beating the game on max difficulty in only two nights of 
 a few hours game play. The levels are non-linear yes, but not enough to offer any re playability.
 
  
  The second and most annoying was getting stuck several times while jumping out of the way of a 
 charging enemy. By stuck I don't mean wiggle and strafe a little and you're free. I mean stuck 
 to the point where quitting or reloading a checkpoint was the only option.
  
  No Multiplayer! Yes this was one of my disappointments because nearly every shooter to date has 
 some sort of multiplayer implemented. With the upgrade system, multiplayer could have been something 
 as cool as Battlefield 2.
  
  This was a nice try for EA and MOH, but could have been much better. Maybe the next one will be 
 the jewel of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikka84
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 12, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Great game, great grafix, blur effect is fanatastic. you will need an 8800 preferably gtx to fully 
 appreciate the grafix. People complained about this game being too short, try playing it on medium 
 or expert, it wont be short for you. just completed the game on expert and you can appreciate the 
 ai and the gameplay. multiplayer is fun too, as long as there no RL noobs on servers. Love the 
 upgrades on weapons, my best weapon combo BAR + G43 + Mauser all fully upgraded, got through flakturm 
 without dying once on expert :D. There are a few bugs here and there, but not like in BF2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maximus_2
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  One of the best In Medal of Honor series I have palyed yet!
  good single palyers, well disinged levels, lots of options in how they can be done.. you dont have 
 to go jsut only by one route you can finde other and outflank your enemies!!!
  Good graphics and sound. contols are allso good.
  I also Like the fact that it have stats system 
 when you paly as single player campains. you can see how many shots, hits, kills, headshots, accuracy 
 and much much more you have done in the game.
  this is very good stuff.
  as for mulitplayer its great!!!
  running around killing your enemsis with freinds what else to 
 you need ? lol
  soo disnt listne to peple who saying this game is lame !!
  its great game pick it up and paly it your self!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wtburnette
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  I thought this game was fun and pretty immersive. A lot of things were confusing though, or just 
 poorly done. Worst of all, with only 8 hours or so of gameplay, I don't feel it's worth the $50 
 or so they're charging for the game. I haven't played multiplayer yet, so perhaps that will make 
 up for the lack of content. The game had a lot going for it. The graphics, while good, weren't 
 great. They weren't distracting though, so I guess it's beside the point. The action of the game 
 puts you into the game, making your character an integral part of what's going on. Picking off 
 distant foes with the sniper rifle or leaning around corners and picking enemies off with the shotgun 
 was extremely satisfying. The game has a decent cinematic feel as well, which adds to the enjoyment 
 of playing. I thought the cutscenes and such could have been better done though, to continue with 
 the cinematic feel. Also, beating the game felt like a letdown, especially since it was so short. 
 Some other gripes I had:
  
  Graphics options. I played this on the PC, but didn't see any real options for the graphics. Click 
 on Options then Audio Video and you get a slider for brightness, music volume, sfx volume and a 
 button to test your 5.1 setup. I don't know if the game autodetects and sets your graphics accordingly 
 or what. It looked good, but every PC game should have video options that allow us to tweak to 
 our heart's content.
  
  Checkpoint saving. Again, I played this on the PC, not a console. I absolutely hate checkpoint 
 saving which is why I don't play console games. Enough said I think.
  
  Skill drops. I played through the whole game and I'm not sure what the point of these are. I didn't 
 find a way to deploy the chute while in the level, so it doesn't seem like there's a reason to 
 have skill drops, especially so many. Maybe you're supposed to hit them when you die and have to 
 jump back into the level. Dunno. Confused me more then a little. I know, it's probably in the manual 
 or a readme or something, but I feel if you can't figure something out in the game, it's of dubious 
 value.
  
  Upgrades. Are they automatic or do you have to apply them? Never found out.
  
  Mission confusion. It's nice that there are indicators on the map for the goals, cause otherwise 
 I'd wonder around for hours trying to figure out what I was supposed to do. Often I'd catch one 
 of the members of my squad saying what to do next and sometimes I'd miss it. Sometimes I'd be able 
 to follow a group of friendly soldiers and sometimes they'd just mill around and I wouldn't have 
 a clue what to do next. You can hit Esc to bring up the list of objectives which also helps, but 
 it doesn't really seem to be enough. It'd be nice to be able to highlight an objective and have 
 that objective's indicator show up a different color or something so you had a better idea of what 
 you should be doing.
  
  Aside from my gripes, the game was still a lot of fun. Even with it's shortcomings, I'd have no 
 problem recommending it if it was longer. Due to the length of the game though, I'd have to say 
 I recommend waiting for the price to drop. This game would be a bargain at $30 or under and a complete 
 steal for under $20 or so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stif42
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2007 2:42 am PT
Review:  Ok , this is not a revolutionary fps : you just have to kill and get some medics. But if this game 
 don't provide a new way to enjoy fps, it give in the other way a lot of fun. In fact, I would say 
 that MoH Airborne is an instant classic.
  
  First, graphics are impressive : motion blur, textures, animations, lightnings, all this bring 
 MoH this next gen appellation. Notice that 163.67 forceware make the game run smoother.
  
  Second, sounds are really realistic. They bring a high degree of immersion and they put you in 
 the battleground. Score is perfect too.
  
  Ok, you can find a lot of bad things in this game : IA not always on top, and a solo campaign a 
 little short, but the good things make you forget this. By the way, you can still enjoy the game 
 online after having finished the campaign.
  
  Great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deval
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Ok first off I like the game, but during play I felt that I needed to bring to others attention 
 a few problems I found with the game and also to praise some of the better aspects.
  
  Airborne is the latest in the EA Medal of Honor franchise and is the best they have done so far. 
 The game places you in the boots of Boyd Travers of the American 82nd airborne division as you 
 (and yes I mean just you most of the time) drop from a perfectly good aeroplane and land in the 
 middle of a pitched battle with the German war machine. As much of a gimmick the jumping bit is, 
 it is really fun and does offer alot of different ways to play the levels. You can aim for the 
 green flares for a nice safe landing, but also go it alone anywhere else within a certain boundary 
 to achieve your objectives. Objectives in the levels can be completed in any order and because 
 of the open design of them, you can approach from a few different directions. The most common objective 
 is to plant charges on flak guns and tanks with others being to shoot certain glowing objects to 
 disable them, so pretty standard MOH stuff.
  
  Now the game only has 6 levels which may make some people immediately skip this one, but they do 
 take a while to play through and the ability to drop in different areas each time gives some replayability. 
 Weapon wise your looking at pretty much the same thing as any other WW2 shooter, the Americans 
 bringing Garands, Thompsons, BAR's, Springfields and anti tank weapons. The German forces being 
 armed with their counterparts basically. The weapons are made pretty special though by the fact 
 that each one can have 3 upgrades as you gain experience using them during the game. When you level 
 up the game slows down making you invincible and giving you infinite ammo during this effect, as 
 well as showing you the new upgrade and what it does. This is for every weapon, not just rifles 
 and machine guns but also grenades and anti tank guns.
  
  Getting to the actual gameplay, the AI is a complete dullard and at times rather suicidal. This 
 goes for your fellow troopers who more often than not stand out in the open against MG fire, bashed 
 in the face by a german soldier or just vanish. On normal the enemy can hit you at pretty much 
 any range and take big chunks from your health if your not careful. Your health is broken down 
 into 4 bars, that deplete when you are hit. If you get to cover and the bar still has some blue 
 left it will regen, if not then you have lost that bar and must find a medkit to replenish it. 
 Another gripe I have is the friendly AI which is very few and far between, which makes it tough 
 to immerse yourself in a massive airborne operation when the enitre force consists of you and 4 
 other men taking on 7 or more Italian black shirts or German Fallschirmjager. When they are there 
 it helps to draw shots away from you but don't expect them to help anymore than that, like pretty 
 much all MOH games, you are the star and must take on the Nazi forces single handed. Another problem 
 you may find is the constanly spawning enemies, which in this game can be a withering problem as 
 you run low on ammo, all your AI buddies are dead and you only have 1 health bar left, its frustrating 
 and at times makes you want to quit.
  
  Some good points though are the levels, which are big well made and offer some visual eye candy. 
 The bombed out town at Nijmegen is one of the best levels for its design and look. The sheer level 
 of destruction is impressive and makes other games attempts at the same thing laughable. The graphics 
 themselves are very good, with detailed faces and uniforms that glint when any polished or metal 
 pieces hit bright light (espcially good for seeing sniper scopes) as well as some nice weapon models 
 make the game look well polished. The animations are especially good with blurring effects when 
 you turn quickly and sprint, and death animations mixed with some more believable physics give 
 the combat a nice feel. The reviews on IGN and Gamespot refer to poor hit detection but this could 
 be down to either your computer not being able to run it or players not compensating for the kick 
 when using the iron sights. When I played most enemies when down in a single headshot or a few 
 rounds elsewhere. There are some over the top aspects in airborne some realism fanatics may want 
 to know. There is a Nazi elite storm trooper with evil gas mask and carrying a MG42. These guys 
 are very accurate and take many shots to kill, which frankly annoyed me that they were there in 
 the first place but fortunately they are only in the last 2 levels.
  
  Now if you were hoping for a new multiplayer experience then be prepared for something of a let 
 down. At max servers can only run 12 players and I think this has something to do with the game 
 being made for consoles which cannot run alot of players. This is sad since the MOH series has 
 been pretty popular for its multiplayer gaming and to see it regress into a tiny 6 a side game 
 is poor at best. I would say that clans who work well together in squad based battles will have 
 more fun but for public servers catering to non clannies its a shambles.
  
  In closing I would say that Airborne is the best so far purely on its singleplayer. Its got nice 
 graphics, good levels, nice effects and physics along with the usual musical score and sound that 
 MOH fans have been treated to in the past. If the game had better multiplayer and fixed a few issues 
 with the AI and adding more friendly paratroopers it would get a higher score from me. But if your 
 just interested in the campaign then you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SplinterCellSC2
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2007 7:50 am PT
Review:  QUOTE: The Bad
  First half of game isn't very interesting Weapons can be tough to aim thanks to recoil and poor 
 hit detection Lots of little flaws detract from the overall experience. 
  END QUOTE
  
  So far I happen to love this game and the Cons noted by GS here are not worth the low grade, I'll 
 explain.
  I have played all of the MOH series to date and the weapons react very much the same (with very 
 few noticable differences) all across the series. If you ask me, I think the weapons act more realistic 
 in that, a lot of the weapons from that time period had excessive RECOIL! Not sure about some of 
 you younger gamers in here but I am sure most of you never fired a WW2 era machine gun or high 
 caliber rifle in real life? Trust me, they are NOT accurate even at close range, so I welcome the 
 more difficult hit boxes, moving targets and hard to aim and fire weapons. They were heavy, the 
 situational circumstances made it difficult to concentrate and take proper aim, etc. So run and 
 gun or spray and pray, was sometimes the only way to survive a firefight such as the one you're 
 dropped into during the first level sequences. Aside from that, sometimes a simple or less interesting 
 task was all you had for orders for a small Airborne Squad such as the one you're in... Might not 
 be interesting to take out AA Batteries but nessesary if you want to advance your air support safely. 
 Besides, orders are orders soldier!
  The action in this game is second to none! You start out with your squad jumping over a heated 
 battle scene below. Your plane gets shot up and burns and crashes in the distance as you chute 
 down to the DZ amid mortar and gun fire as tracer rounds streak through the night sky, men shouting 
 out commands and distress, explosions, bullets ricochet off walls and metal or make a sickening 
 flesh and bone thump, though an unfortunate soldier just feet from you!
  I highly recommend this game! Just pure fun and a moving work of art to behold! The graphics create 
 the appropriate mood and you can almost smell the gunpowder and burning materials all around.
 
  
  Cya on the Battlefield!
  Sgt. SplinterCellSC20 - BF2
  UDTSeal - BF2142 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emteedoubleu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 10:42 pm PT
Review:  This is right up there with COD4 in my eyes, and i have the beta right now, obviously its WWII 
 setting still and COD is modern, but still very good game, the picking anywhere you start is absolutely 
 awesome and gives you total freedom on how you want to play. Feel like being a hero drop into a 
 swarm of enemies, feel like taking it easy, land in a safe or abandoned zone and relax for a minute, 
 its all up to you! Go pick it up today!! 100 words 100 words 100 words 100 words 100 words 100 
 words 100 words 100 words 100 words 100 words 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TomMooreBox
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  I do not know why MOH Airborne received such an average score. It's the most fun I've had with 
 a shooter in a long time. (Yes I did play Bioshock) I think the graphics look pretty incredible. 
 The battles are intense. The AI is pretty great minus the occasional get out of my way buddy I'm 
 trying to snipe or grenade the guys that's wasting everyone . I love jumping right into the battle. 
 Where ever I want basically. I do think the fact that weapons only become really interesting and 
 quite honestly effective happens towards the latter part of the game kinda stinks. They should 
 implement training courses in the beginning so you can atleast use your weapon somewhat effectively 
 after the first level. I know there are only six levels bit of a bummer but I have to say I'm playing 
 this again. As far as the sound is concerned some of the best. When you think you've got good cover, 
 a bead on a guy and then all off a sudden you hear some german dudes battle cry and then take a 
 few thumps to the head from the butt of his rifle.... thats pretty scary stuff.
  The levels are very diverse though only a half dozen. Maybe they'll throw us a bone and make some 
 down loadable. I own the PC version so we'll have to see. If you like FPS and you want a game that'll 
 keep you busy until Halo 3 or crysis hit the shelves. I highly recommend this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkscorcher
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 10, 2007 6:20 pm PT
Review:  i dont get it, the rating gamespot gives for each game changes with time and each system. for example 
 when medal of honor first came out they gave it such a high score (9.0) , in every department, but 
 if a sequal is released that is better than the original, gamespot suddenly gives the game a LOW 
 rating and says its too much like the original ?
  
  the same thing with graphics, game spot will give a ps2 game and an xbox 360 game the EXACT same 
 score graphics wise on certain games.
  
  madden 04 scores a 9.1, but madden 08 scores a 8.5 ?
  
  gamespot raters are very unprofessional 
 and just give ratings based on personal tastes not any set scientific standard. they need to come 
 of with a syste 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pgtest
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 10, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  Decent story - but not historical Good graphics - some like more
  Quite good battle feeling
  Reasonable gun feeling and nice way of improving your skill by adding 
 better stuff to your guns.
  
  In between:
  Some re-playability but as spawning pattern is the same all times... you know where the enemy will 
 pop up.
  Multi-player ... well, not my kind of playing but doesn&acute; t feel too solid... lacking some 
 features... needs re-work.
  
  Cons:
  SHORT ... just 6 hours... (6 levels)
  Game play is pretty linear. Yes, you can drop in a more than one spot but it goes basically like 
 this... fix 3 objectives... then 1 more and then 1 more again.. end of level... so first part is 
 usually semi-linear but you cant make the later parts of the level without doing the 3 first ones.
 
  
  Blurs... especially in sniper scope if close object is in sight... focus on close object... plain 
 annoying
  
  MOHA classical spawn style... if you don't move forward, enemy will spawn forever... but if you 
 push hard and fast forward beyond certain points, no new spawns... thus can explain why some claim 
 100 hours to complete (cautious generals) and some claim 3-6 hours (rushers - type guys) . (Same 
 behavior in old MOHA games... bad or good, personally I dont like it... especially if you are trying 
 to take a control room with just ONE exit and there is unlimited number of enemies pouring out 
 from it unless you get in)
  
  Popping up rocket guys with sometimes awesome firing speed (1 shot every second) .. probably a 
 bug.
  
  Better enemies just mean more hits to kill, not smarter and they just get bigger guns. Nothing 
 new there in other words.
  
  Graphical glitches, lean into/through wall etc. (Not many but distracts from overall impression)
 
  
  Hit/edge detection, sometimes you get killed behind a corner but not at the corner.
  
  Clipping... yes, use sniper scope at some extremely long distances... you can shoot forever, because 
 the target is behind a box or something but it is clipped... as you move forward suddenly the box 
 pops into view... annoying.
  
  Summary:
  As a descent game for some hours of single playing its ok but the somewhat high price, well I don't 
 know. Personally I feel it was somewhat overpriced. I would give it a 7.
  Multi-player... I am not to judge it as I don't play too much on-line.
  
  Just my 25 cents 
 of thoughts of this game based on 25 years of computer gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zerenox
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 10, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  If your looking for a FPS set in WW2 you don't need to look further. The game itself isn't very 
 different from other WW2 games out there but has some nice touches to it. The main difference is 
 that you must parachute in to missions (hence the name Airborne) , also the maps are large and not 
 linear (like in so many WW2 games) so you can approach each specific object differently. The recoil 
 on the weapons didn't bother me at all and you shouldn't be bother by it either (unless you like 
 spraying crazy from SMG none stop) . Through my play I only noticed some slight bugs and glitches, 
 at one mission a guy I killed just got stuck in midair. Other than that specific glitch I didn't 
 notice anything out of the ordinary. Overall, it's good game worth playing but not a Great game 
 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: underground1
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 10, 2007 5:35 am PT
Review:  Nothing new here, you jump into the war in each mission with the same and the same act and feeling, 
 no more intro movie or anything that make you wanna kill Nazi Just fire and fire, bomb and bomb, 
 again and again. I dont think this is the game that release on 2007. The AI are stupid, on the last 
 mission they run pass me, think i'm not there enemy ? and some Nazi Unit like Nazi Elite is totally 
 unreal, I can't kill them with granades. The Nazi Sniper alway have flash light on his sniper's 
 scope, you'll see the light even if they're hiding you.
  
  Just another huge boring game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Allex007
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 2:20 am PT
Review:  The Medal of Honor series is the longest series of WW2 shooters. The first Medal of Honor game was 
 releasead in the glories days of the PS1 after words being moved to the PC and the next gen consoles.
 
  The new addition to the series, Airborne folows the same path as the other games. In the campaign 
 mode, you play as Boyd Travis, a paratrooper in the US 82nd Airborne Division. Mission include insertions 
 into Sicily, France, the Netherlands and finaly in Germany each one begining with a jump behing enemy 
 line. In each mission your are giving a number of objectives that you finish in any order you like. The 
 game has a number of 6 missions that can take you between 40 min and 1 hour. It's short and it get 
 hard in certain points. One of the most anoying problems in the game are the weapons.
  The weapons are very clumsy and can be tough to aim because of the recoil and bad hit detection. This 
 is one of the issues that make the game harder to play. The graphics aren't very impressive although 
 it using the Unreal 3 engine. The textures are pretty good but nothing jawdroping.
  Also the game has a lot of flaws and bugs that ruin the game experience.
  Like once i saw a kraut 
 runing over my head in mid air. It's should of been a little more polished. Also a good thing to 
 point is the intense action of the game and also the music is top notch. The multiplayer is probably 
 much better than the campaign with Allies vs Krauts.
  Overall Medal of Honor Airborne gets the Medal of Honor feling, intense action and especially the 
 sound but fails from being a great first person shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 2:07 am PT
Review:  Well i want to start with the good things in this game ... the main thing that it really gives 
 you the seens of war &amp; intuitve pserspective is that you can land everywhere you like on the 
 limits of the battlefiled that every level has , another great thing is the way you evolve on using 
 your wapons ... si youhave something like in a RPG a level bar ...&amp; after you had multiple 
 succsefull shots you will advance in level ... every weapon has 3 levels of evolution &amp; not 
 only that you ill se modifications on the weapons to ... like a scop or a bigger clip ! Ok those 
 are the good aspects of the game ... now the bad speaking of weapons ... they all fell kind of clumzy 
 &amp; they just don't feeel right .... i mean i've been playing Day of Defeat source for a month 
 now everyday &amp; the way Valve did the accuracy &amp; the reaload times is everyother aspect 
 is just phenomenal comparing to wah MOHAA is doing , another bad thing is that you can sprint like 
 a raging bull without a problem you can go on for miles &amp; miles ... no stamina here comparing 
 it to the realism that Day of Defeat created well its not evan close ! &amp; now the A. I. well 
 its done quite right they will take cover &amp; try to hit you &amp; if you are at long range they 
 will hit you but as you get close they will get retarded ... practcaly they will take cover behind 
 a chiar standing in from of you &amp; will blind fire ...&amp; for what your just 5 steps away 
 the only problem is when they will get close to you they are just enraged in malee attacks &amp; 
 you don't stand a chance ! The engine well its a surprise to everyone its the worst version i have 
 seen of the UNREAL 3 Engine .... the only htings that stands out are the effects ... but the rest 
 is just to low ... starting with textures to phisx .... i have tried with greanades , weapons to 
 move chair &amp; i couldn't the only thigs that have phisx are the bodies of your teamates/enemies 
 but in some situations they will perform like a bunch of silicons bodyies &amp; another thig that 
 was well just to unrealistc was when the tank fired over me &amp; taked cover behind a little car 
 nothing happend to the car is just so liniar ! + the game is very short on your loading screen 
 it allways so 10 major enemies that each will apear in levels in that exact order &amp; they are 
 10 so results 10 levels !
  Speaking of next gen ... you can take &amp; compare Brothers in Arms 1 to this game &amp; Brothers 
 in Arms whould win by far ... not to speak of BIA Hells Highway !This game i think will disapoint 
 fans of the series to ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fpapleux
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  I don't quite understand, really. I plugged bf2142 and I run it 1920x1440 full detail and everything 
 on. no problem. this game gave me low frame rates on the menu screen!!
  
  Apart from the technical glitches, the game is fun, though it is short. I finished it in 1 weekend 
 and I have kids so I don't spend all day at it.
  
  Since you jump into the battlefield and objectives are often scattered all over the map, it is 
 fun to be able to pick which one you're going to attach first, and from which angle. However, I 
 guess that's also the reason why it is fairly easy to walk up on enemies from behind and they just 
 stay there waiting to get shot, or they just appear out of the blue while you're walking around.
 
  
  Overall, it's clearly not worth the $50 I gave for it for sure. It feels rushed and I feel that 
 they scr%#$ me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huangzhihao
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Let's talk about the good parts. First, the aiming. I heard a lot of people complaining that in 
 game it is too hard to hit. I have to say this is a misconception. People feel this way because 
 most FPS games made it too easy to aim. I believe the recoil and inaccuracy is actually more realistic 
 in MOH: A. The AI is ok. They flank, charge, take cover like real troops do (not as smart of course) . 
 I also like some of the new effects, such as the focus- change when using scope on sniper. According 
 to the distance of where you aim, other parts will become flurry, making it harder to kill. You 
 will discover many little things which add realism into the game. At last, it is nice that you 
 can drop wherever you want starting each mission, unlike the old way - begin each one at a fixed 
 location.
  
  Certainly, there are reasons that I only gave it 7.5. The graphic is not as good as I expected 
 it to be. It is fine, but EA should have done better than this in 2007. The explosions and smokes 
 are the worst. Overall, I don know if it's better than Call of Duty 2 (2005) . Also, as you may have 
 already heard, this game is extremely short, consisting merely 6 missions with a weak multi-player. 
 Compared to the price I really feel i got ripped off, just like many others feel.
  
  I wouldn't suggest anyone to buy it. Get a second hand or rent it, unless you are a real fan of 
 WW2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razvani500
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Great game... play and see.. Great game... play and see.. Great game... play and see.. Great game... 
 play and see.. Great game... play and see.. Great game... play and see.. Great game... play and see.. Great 
 game... play and see.. Great game... play and see.. Great game... play and see.. Great game... play 
 and see.. Great game... play and see.. Great game... play and see.. Great game... play and see.. Great 
 game... play and see.. Great game... play and see.. Great game... play and see.. Great game... play 
 and see.. Great game... play and see.. Great game... play and see.. Great game... play and see.. Great 
 game... play and see.. Great game... play and see.. Great game... play and see.. Great game... play 
 and see.. Great game... play and see.. Great game... play and see.. Great game... play and see.. Great 
 game... play and see.. Great game... play and see.. Great game... play and see.. Great game... play 
 and see.. Great game... play and see.. Great game... play and see.. Great game... play and see.. Great 
 game... play and see.. Great game... play and see.. Great game... play and see.. Great game... play 
 and see.. Great game... play and see.. Great game... play and see.. Great game... play and see.. Great 
 game... play and see.. Great game... play and see.. Great game... play and see.. Great game... play 
 and see.. Great game... play and see.. Great game... play and see.. Great game... play and see.. Great 
 game... play and see.. Great game... play and see.. Great game... play and see.. Great game... play 
 and see.. Great game... play and see.. Great game... play and see.. Great game... play and see.. Great 
 game... play and see.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s1401
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2007 1:32 am PT
Review:  Wlaczylem gre bez czytania zadnych recenzji. Marka mowila sama za siebie. Poczatek standardowy, 
 skok z samolotu, znane bronie, znane misje. Ale przeciez w grze opartej na drugiej wojnie swiatowej 
 nie oczekujmy, ze nagle ktos odkryje cos nowego. Wszystko inne to rewelacja.
  Napewno nie jest to gra taktyczna, ale leciec jak glupek tez nie mozna. Szczegolnie na wyzszym 
 poziomie, chowanie to podstawa. No i grywalnosc. Dzwiek broni, grafika... Super jest tez to ze 
 nie biegasz sam, przy czym Twoi towarzysze nie zdolaja nic zdobyc, bez Twojej pomocy. Przy czym 
 wybierajac bron z celownikiem optycznym mozna z odleglosci torowac droge aliantom. Ogolnie super 
 gra na relax, jak zawsze nie trzeba niczego szukac, kolejnosc wykonywania pod-misji jest dowolna, 
 a mimo to zakonczenie calej misji bez jednogo zgonu to nawet na poziomie normalnym, calkiem spore 
 wyzwanie. POLECAM 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crimson_axe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Alright, right off the bat, this game is better than GS gives it credit. Sure, it doesn't breach 
 all the boundaries of Next-Gen, but it's got it where it counts, which is a solid Current-Gen experience.
 
  
  Graphics - 8.5
  
  I don't know what the GS reviewers are smoking, but this game looks pretty good. it uses the Unreal 
 3 Engine, and I mean... in all truth of the matter, the crappiest usage of this Engine still looks 
 good. Sure, it may not have all the bells and whistles of what the Engine can really pull off, 
 but you also don't need a super computer to play it either. I play on pretty much Max settings 
 and my overall rig is about 5 years old now. I do have a pretty modern GPU though, so that probably 
 helps out the most.
  
  Great textures, animations, and just enough of the flash to keep it exciting. The opening learn 
 to parachute level is one notable experience. It's short, and there's really not a whole lot to 
 it, but it's a great way to start a game that hasn't been done before in the MOH series.
  
  Sound - 8
  
  Sounds good... really good. The only thing I find lacking in this is that there 
 is no original music. One of the things that always stood out in the MOH series above all others 
 is the musical score and the sounds of battle. They just didn't get any better. Most of if not 
 all the music in the game was taken from the archives. The new numbers that were made for Airborne 
 all sound like they are synthesized. This to me was a total bummer. I hate the way synthesized 
 music sounds, and you really miss it when you've come to expect a certain value from the series.
 
  
  Gameplay - 9
  
  It plays the way you expect it to. It's still not as great as Allied Assault was, but in all honesty 
 - what game has ever lived up to that in the first place? Call of Duty maybe, but Allied Assault 
 really is what kicked this genre off in the first place.
  
  One major thing I've come to expect from FPS's is that the AI cheats, or does so seeminly. It has 
 to in order to scale the difficulty. I'm playing on the hardest, and it's just something you learn 
 to deal with.
  
  Value - 7.5
  
  I will say that Airborne seems to have a lot less of the marketing that the series is known for. 
 EA practically went all out with Pacific Assault, and to see this game almost launch under the 
 radar sort of reminds me that sometimes our heroes die. I feel that the series is definitely wanning 
 here, but it could be the overall WWII Shooter genre altogether. Call of Duty 4 left the genre 
 behind, and it seems like thats what needs to happen for now. Still, I give credit where credit 
 is due, and to that end, I'm glad EA gave us one more adventure into the Great Crusade . For that, 
 i thank EA.
  
  Tilt - 9
  
  I'm giving this a high tilt simply because it deserves it.
  
  Overall - 8.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlankerDFMax
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 8:39 pm PT
Review:  The Game Spot review pretty well nails this game. EA and the Devs billing this game as featuring 
 a more open style of game play by allowing you to parachute into the map where you want is nothing 
 more than PR garbage. If you don't land in one of the designated safe zones; your career will be 
 short and the restarts often. Did they mention the more restarts you have the lower your game performance 
 score will be? Didn't think so. MOHA does allow you to complete multiple objectives in any order, 
 which is a nice new feature (for this series) , but I didn't find the maps to be nearly as open 
 as some other recent shooters, MOHA may not be a rail shooter but's it's not open gameplay either 
 (NOTE to all Development Companies ----see Far Cry, Crysis, &amp; any GTA game, and be more like 
 them) . Then there's the no save game feature; which looks and feels more than antiquated this far 
 into the 21st century (craptastic actually) . Like playing large sections of the game over and over 
 (from the last Dev provided save point) ?.................... me either. Then in a total fit of originality 
 the game shifts from arcade style WWII shooter to Bad Sci Fi in the next to last level. While clearing 
 a large industrial complex of Nazi hordes, and destroying a variety of objectives, you're sent 
 to join your comrades to clear the Rail Yard . When you approach the rail yard gate, you're taken 
 into a cut scene of an armored train pulling up, and what I can only describe as a caricature of 
 a Level Boss from Return to Castle Wolfenstein. Some NPC wearing a nearly bullet proof dress SS 
 uniform , wearing a gas mask , and carriyng an MG 42 gets off the train with a hoard of falschirmjaeger 
 drones to kick your elbow. Suddenly your'e transported 30 feet from where you were (outside the 
 train yard gate) when the cutscene started, into a face to face with Frankenstein SS and his lackeys 
 (inside the train yard) . The bottom line? Way too short a game for the money, and some scripting 
 that's so ridiculous in the end it resembles GRAW and GRAW II. We gamers deserve better. Did I 
 mention the enemy NPC reinforcements, on occasion, spawning into the map directly in front of you? 
 Very slick (or not) Devs! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gfile
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  this game is not revolutionary but impresses with graphics and optimization, hard to aim, plus 
 parachuting. The bad thing about this game is that has a stupid AI on normal, have consolitis, 
 and ai aiming is weak...
  Medi kit you can find at every corner not to mention many guns, bullets.
  Missions are predictable, 
 do that, stop them, linneary play...
  its good to be parachuting into the enemy nest on the roof, not knowing where you are or whats 
 happening, who are your guys and who are your enemy, its refreshing to this kind of games especially 
 ww2 theme that never enought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadeyeKFG
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Well, got the game today, and finished it later today too. Nothing fancy. Havent tried MP yet, 
 but the single player is kinda... oh ok, I gotta shoot the guys that keeps coming outta the same 
 room all the time. 
  
  The first 4 levels is rather interesting. You get to experience different combat scenario's, close 
 combat, long range, blowing up stuff. Being able to run everywhere is very nice. Just sitting in 
 a tower, sniping axis gets kinda boring at the end thu, because they just keep coming outta that 
 damn room. Weapon upgrades are a nice touch. things like drum mag for thompson, dual clip for the 
 STG44 and MP40 are very nice to get. But once you get a fully upgraded STG44, you can pretty much 
 mow through every enemy rather easy. Just pack a sniper rifle for the long range enemy's.
  
  Then I dont know what happens in the 5th mission. That feeling of being in a WW2 historic game 
 dissappears, when a black dressed nazi &uuml; ber trooper with a handheld MG42 appears, and needs 
 a whole clip from the STG44 to go down. During thoose 2 last missions, I had the feeling I was 
 running around in Castle Wolfenstein.
  
  My advice, rent it first, unless you are really into WW2 games and solid MoH fan. Maybe the multiplayer 
 will be better and bigger. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manosutra
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 8, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Espere mucho por este juego hasta cambie inverti dinero en mi pc para poder jugarlo a una velocidad 
 optima , pero el juego de verdad decepciona, con todas sus fallas de graficas y con sus mapas horriblemente 
 peque&ntilde; os y predecibles. Accion hay , pero muy aburrida.
  
  Lamentable es ver los movimientos a traves de el Sniper a distancia, los movimientos son horribles, 
 totalmente roboticos y cuando piensas que todo va a estar bien y decides matar a uno le disparas 
 en pleno cuerpo y no pasa nada !!!!!! Totalmente decepcionante.
  
  La movilidad no es para nada un aporte en la accion del juego , ya que frena considerablemente 
 todo lo que ocurre ya que al apuntar no te puedes mover lateralmente ya que se inclina en vez de 
 moverse, todo lo hace mas complicado y aburrido. tal vez quisieron agilizar la accion asignando 
 menos botones pero lo que lograron es matar el realizmo de cada escena de accion.
  
  Las graficas y detalles estan bastante bien , pero no alcanaza para todas las defiiencias que tiene 
 este nuevo titulo de esta ya alicaida saga, sobresalen mucho mas todos los errores de las IA al 
 momento de avanzar con tu peloton o encontrarte con el enemigo.
  
  Lastima , pero lo que empezo , para mi , el la psx como una saga espectacular ahora esta finalmente 
 muriendo con este juego.
  
  Termino diciendo , adios Medalla de Honor , Bienvenido Call Of Duty 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pongley
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  OK so you can pick your start point in the mission, but after that it's just like all the rest. 
 There is no real innovation here, this piece of the war genre has dried up for the moment and the 
 CoD team have noticed and moved on. EA should too. But they shouldn't forget it.
  But despite it's lameness at the heart of it it is still a good game to play, even if we can just 
 play the old versions which to be honest are more fun. Especially the old PSX ones before EA started 
 to copy CoD. Maybe EA should take some hints from the fans for a change. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nae_X
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  e chiar tare jocu... si sincer... asteptam de mult o continare a seriei... nu m-a dezamagit in privinta 
 gameplay-ului... sau al graficii.... dar e scurt al draq.. upgade-urile la arme sunt misto... si chiar 
 merita luat jocu.. daca esti fan al genului ; e de departe cel mai reusit joc din serie din toate 
 punctele de vedere si nu stiu de ce tot ce e bun... tine putin.. am asteptat atata timp pt aprox. 
 5-6 ore de joc... nu cred ca am stat mai mult si l-am terminat...2 ani pt 1 zi... merita nu..:) ) .. sper 
 sa gandeasca altii mai bine si sa mai faca vreun add-on sau oarece pt ca altfel multi vor fi dezamagiti 
 de asta... cred... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FBIoh3
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honor: Spearhead with updated graphics........ modded to make it different . Thats how 
 i see it. Dont get me wrong, the single player is fun, new games are almost always fun. But I play 
 multiplayer quite extensively, so i feel a little let down on that part. Some of the same maps 
 from spearhead with more access to rooftops. Thats about it. Small maps at that. No imagination 
 regarding gametypes. Objective is ok, but not really up to par with other games that have objective 
 gametypes in them. Lets blow something up, not just gather around a flag where someone can throw 
 a nade from halfway across a map to kill you.
  
  I told myself not to get my hopes up for this game, and im glad i did not.
  This is not the next 
 must have MP game.
  
  To sum it up:
  
  Single player- cool
  Multiplayer- not so cool
  
  At least its better than COD2.....:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 9:40 am PT
Review:  This game is
  
  1) Very Short
  2) Almost boring
  3) Graphics in most cases look like taken from a console
  4) Multiplayer is nothing special
 
  5) AI is below today standards
  
  The single player game is very boring and with only 6 levels and the graphics in the game are barely 
 next gen.
  
  Also the lack of immediate objectives is annoying. In single player you want objectives and you 
 want to know you reached them. The single player part is a CHAOS and it feels more like a multi-player 
 game. Just killing enemies for getting to the next stage
  
  I expected more from this game but i guess i was hyped by the trailers and the previews
  
  
 Do not waste your time buying
  
  Just rent it for some days until better games come out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KnifeInFace
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 8, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  Airborne is one of those rare FPS's that attempt to hype the game up with their somewhat innovative 
 features. But it ends up being the same piece of human refuse in the end.
  
  Unlike the previous Medal of Honor (MOH) games the team over at Airborne decided they were going 
 to be original with their new Airdrop and Weapons Upgrade features, this whoever turned out to 
 be a steaming pile of boiled water. The lacking pun' known as FEATURES were actually unimpressive 
 marketing ploys to seem innovative despite all the obvious rip-offs of COD (grenade indicator) .
 
  
  But with all of that a side the run&amp; gun gameplay and AMAZINGLY detailed graphics happen to 
 be its strongest points. Allowing your character to choose which objective to accomplish in the 
 spheric map does prove to be more enjoyable then past linear WW2 games, allowing the player to 
 go about their business in their own way.
  
  Moving on.
  
  The audio is with out a doubt the best in gaming history, which leads me to believe that 5gb's 
 of the game are just plain audio tracks of different bullets making new patterns with the unique 
 gravel you'll be walking on.
  
  Despite it being a complete tea-spoon of redundant marketing ploys of it's so called features it 
 happens to be quite entertaining to say the least. If you like MOH, First Person Shooters, or WW2 
 games with lupus, then you should probably buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: side1394
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2007 2:33 am PT
Review:  It has very good graphic scenes and lots of action ,it's one of the best shooters so far (if you 
 like the war shooters) , good sound , a little 2 short ,but what the F%#k it's still a good looking 
 game with a lot of shooting , I've seen some bugs but minor graphic ones and o few more game-play 
 bugs, i will say no more ,just play the game if you're a fan or if u just like shooters just play 
 it. Good luck and post a review when u finish the game ,I'm surprised to now how others think of 
 it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeff_Lockwood
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  I've managed to beat this game on two difficulty settings and I've owned the game for 36 hours.
 
  It's fun because it doesn't take itself too seriously and doesn't stick to exact historical facts. 
 Kicking grenades with perfect accuracy and stormtroopers with hand-held MG42s are a perfect example 
 of this.
  
  Despite being a WWII FPS game, it still differs from the Call of Duty games and maintains that 
 traditional Medal of Honor feeling that's been missing since Allied Assault was all the rage .
 
  The online is fun, but there isn't much new other than the Allies parachuting into the map rather 
 than spawning next to you.
  
  Even though it's short, it's still fun to go through again to try and get all five stars or hit 
 a skill drop zone. And at the end of the day, it's just plain fun to kill the Nazis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scvido
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 6:23 pm PT
Review:  I played the first 2 missions and i can give an overall opinion already for MOH Airborne.
  
  Graphics - powered by Unreal Engine 3.0 the game's graphics are very good with nice crisp textures 
 and surprisingly very smooth with everything maxed on a Core2Duo E6600 with an 8800gtx (my pc) 
 and 2GB ram.
  the best thing and a much needed change is the Animations fo the characters, they are very realistic 
 in the way they fall down and die or movie, Havok is great here, and to top it off the game uses 
 both Cores, this means your dualcore cpu will be used 100% (task manager showed 100% and both cores 
 used to the max) , this helps tremendously when calculating the animations and Havok.
  
  Sound - it is high quality and with the 5.1 speakers it sound great, the characters voices can 
 get a bit boring but that's no different than the older MOH or even COD.
  reverb is not overused and best of all the music is perfect.
  
  Gameplay - ahhh here i have 
 to say that i'm slightly disappointed, the gameplay of course is your typical MOH the problem is 
 at times the shooting gets really stupid and very inaccurate (no it's not my fault) , character 
 appear one after the other and things get too confusing onscreen, the worst is that you can't SAVE 
 anywhere u want, it relies on Checkpoints, i reached in one mission almost to the end, died and 
 had the stupid thing didnt save anywhere..... so back to the beginning!!!!!! GIMME A BREAK!
  
  otherwise id say the shooting and general gameplay is great if you love the other MOH or COD 
 games.
  
  Multiplayer - didnt try it yet.
  
  Conclusion :
  
  a very good game no doubt, if it weren't for the very annoying things i mentioned above i would've 
 given the game top score, but regardless, there is a lot of fun and although frustrating it is 
 still lots of fun, again the animations are worth the price alone. ;)
  
  I recommend MOH Airborne. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vengefulwill
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  Best Medal Of Honor around at the moment! 9.8/10Best Medal Of Honor around at the moment! 9.8/10Best 
 Medal Of Honor around at the moment! 9.8/10Best Medal Of Honor around at the moment! 9.8/10Best 
 Medal Of Honor around at the moment! 9.8/10Best Medal Of Honor around at the moment! 9.8/10Best 
 Medal Of Honor around at the moment! 9.8/10Best Medal Of Honor around at the moment! 9.8/10Best 
 Medal Of Honor around at the moment! 9.8/10Best Medal Of Honor around at the mBest Medal Of Honor 
 around at the moment! 9.8/10oment! 9.8/10Best Medal Of Honor around at the moment! 9.8/10Best Medal 
 Of Honor around at the moment! 9.8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomcat52
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  Why do people complain so much about these games? MOH: Airborne is the best WW2 game since COD 2. 
 In fact, I like some aspects of it better than COD 2. What's not to like? This is the first WW2 
 game that you do not have to go one way to play it. You can choose any path that you want to. This 
 makes it more exciting. This is the first WW2 game that you can parachute into a combat zone like 
 a real paratrooper. This is the first WW2 game of its kind where you can upgrade weapons, which 
 adds more to the game. Also, when you jump into a mission, there are safe zones which are stocked 
 with ammo boxes. These safe zones are where your paratrooper is supposed to land. This is more 
 realistic. That being said, you don't HAVE to land in the safe zones, if you want more of a challenge 
 or a different angle of the same level. You can land ANYWHERE on the screen that you see. This 
 can be the roofs of churches, buildings, and towers, or if you are unlucky, in the middle of the 
 enemy strongholds. I think that this is the best WW2 game that EA has developed.... bar none! I 
 have played the entire MOH series, and I think that this is the best in the series, PERIOD. I have 
 played COD 1 and 2, and other WW2 games and this is by far the best game. Plus, as with most other 
 WW2 games, mods can be created to make it even better. My only negative point would be that the 
 AI is not perfect, but on the other hand it is much improved from previous MOH games. I do not 
 play multiplayer, so I will not comment on that aspect of the game.
  
  I have an AMD XP 2800+, 2 GB RAM, 6800 GeForce GT overclocked, and the visuals are still quite 
 stunning even in 800 x 600 which is what I have to play it in. Those of you with super systems 
 will find it much more appealing to the eye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1cavsoldier
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  I can't believe all of the poor reviews that I am reading about this extraordinary game. I think 
 that too many people are too picky! What do you want, a movie that you can play? This game delivers 
 unlimited amounts of intense action, round after round. There are tons of new technology in this 
 game that make it a cut above all of the rest (at this point in game development) . One of those 
 features is the ability to join the battle where ever you want. At the beginning of a mission, 
 you jump in and hopefully land in a safe zone. Otherwise, you will likely be ambushed by nearby 
 enemies. You can land on roof tops, towers, in the middle of a hornets nest, or right where you 
 are supposed to, the green smoke.
  
  Graphics: 9.5
  
  The graphics are great, but compared to such new releases such as Bioshock and Stranglehold, the 
 game is not top notch in this department. There are many great effects in the game that make the 
 realism feeling that much more immersive. Compared to previous MOH games, Airborne has the best 
 graphics, by far.
  
  AI: 9.0
  
  My reasons for giving the AI slightly lower score is that the allies tend to run in front of you 
 at times, leaving you shooting them in the back. Naturally, they aren't hurt by this, but it can 
 get a bit frustrating. However, that aside, the AI is fantastic. Compared to such games as Half-Life 
 2, the AI is just as good, or better. Enemy soldiers will attempt to flank you. They use cover 
 fire to move forward and hide behind whatever cover is available, poking their heads out to fire 
 in short bursts. This makes it difficult at times to hit the target, which is REALISTIC! Those 
 of you that are complaining about the recoil of the rifles making it difficult to aim need to do 
 some research. I was in the military and automatic weapons have a recoil that makes it difficult 
 to aim. I think that this makes the game better because you HAVE to fire in short bursts like a 
 real soldier would. Sound: 9.5
  
  The sound is as good as any FPS that I've played. You can hear bullets wizzing by your ears, hitting 
 the stones around you, or the dirt, as well. The weapons sound very nice and the explosions are 
 realistic, as well. If you've ever thrown a grenade in real life, you would know that the explosion 
 is not that large. It shakes the earth quite a bit, but as far as killing 20 or more people... nope! 
 A grenade is lucky to take out one person because it's difficult to throw and make it land where 
 you want it. Every once in a while, one of the allies will say Shut up and fight , and I think 
 that's corny, but the yelling and voice acting is quite good, other than that one line.
  
  Realism: 10.0
  
  I know that I've touched on this a little bit already, but it bears repeating. 
 In order to get through this game with your head in tact, you must rely on your men, and the cover 
 provided in the area. As you jump out of the plane (which, I have done in the real Army) and head 
 towards the ground, everything is quite realistic. The parachute is difficult to control, but so 
 are the real deals, unless you are special forces. Once you hit the ground, you don't have time 
 to think about anything except getting your weapon ready for combat. After you land, you are responsible 
 for meeting up with your men to carry out various missions. The best part is... every level can 
 be played a number of different ways. The choice is yours.
  
  Interface: 9.8
  
  It's not Rainbow Six Vegas, where you can put your back up against some cover and shoot around 
 the corner, or over the top, but it's the next best thing. In the game, as you crouch behind cover, 
 you can go to ironsights mode, which is basically aiming down the weapon sights, and by pressing 
 up you will raise up slowly over the cover, take aim and shoot a burst. If you press, right or 
 left, you will peak around corners, as well. By releasing the up, left, or right buttons, you will 
 return to normal position. Another added interface is the ability to kick a grenade away with the 
 default E key and save yourself from getting blown up. The ability to smash your rifle butt into 
 the face, stomach, or groin of an enemy in close-quarters is nice save in surprise situations. 
 The ability to upgrade weapons is an awesome bonus, as well. It almost leaves a small feeling of 
 playing an RPG.
  
  Summary: Buy the game! It is an experience like no other in the FPS genre. Don't miss out on the 
 next generation of FPS games. Don't compare it to Bioshock, either. That's a great game, but it's 
 DirectX 10 and a completely different genre. FPS yes, but war, no. If you want to immerse yourself 
 into the middle of airborne operations in WW2, take the plunge and on the green light.... Go, go, 
 go! I haven't played MP mode yet, so I will not comment on that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grantelicious
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  
  - Graphics.
  - Sound.
  - Cover system.
  - Health system.
  - level design.
  - Immersive.
  
  Cons:
  
  - Too short (took me 3 hours on medium) .
 
  - Bugs and glitches.
  - Mutliplayer.
  - In game voice overs get repetitive.
  - Feel like a one man army, your friendlys just vanish alot of the time.
  - Menus (not much graphical 
 customization and multiplayer server browser is poor)
  - No AA
  
  It's weird how i'm abit disappointed with this game when i was never hyped up about it at all. 
 The thing is the game feels like it's just getting you started with the campaign and you'll soon 
 quickly realise "hang on a min theres only a handful of levels" but for the 3 hours it lasted me 
 i did have great fun The best levels of the game that shine out above the rest are the third and 
 the last two, which are just sooo much fun and sooo epic, specially the last one with the intro 
 it gives you. So you play the airborne division which is great fun and all but you think to yourself 
 "how long can this last" because theres only a certain amount of missions that used parachutes 
 in WW2. Then you realise the games only a few hours long and thats one of the shortest, if not 
 THE shorted FPS i've ever played. It is great fun jumping out of a plane and picking your landing 
 spot and if you die you'll have to do it all over again. What got me though was the horrible saved 
 game system where it does it every checkpoint so if you want to quit you'll have to wait till you 
 reach the next one. However i can kinda let this slip because you'll be completing a objective 
 every few mins or so and the game being only 3 hours long you'll probably just complete it in one 
 sitting.
  
  MOH: A feels very glitchy and buggy and you'll notice alot of graphical glitches like when you kill 
 a enemy sometimes their limbs can go all stretched and funny. Also some of the backgrounds might 
 flicker from textured to black and you might notice some weird coloured dots and green gots as 
 you exit the game. Also when using the scope on the sniper rifle you'll notice some other glitches 
 there tooo. ON top of that the AI doesn't always seem quite there and you'll often feel like a 
 one man army with your friendlys just vanishing until a checkpoint. I've noticed if enemies don't 
 see you aswel then they might just stand there while you shoot at them. Theres alot of other weird 
 things too like sometimes bodies will randomly just fly far when you kill them which seems unrealistic 
 etc etc...
  
  The game is your standard 360 to PC rush port with poor multiplayer server browsers and menus. 
 I don't like how you can't change graphical settings in the game menus and still theres no AA in 
 any of these Unreal engine 3 games or window mode options. There are some things you can change 
 before you enter the game but not really as many scaling options as you'd hope for in a PC game. 
 The performance is as bad as ever with Unreal 3 engine with no companies bothering to do so, i 
 just hope Epic show them how it's done. The whole thing just shouts rush job for me and thats what 
 the game says really. It's just like EA were happy with how it was and didn't want to give it anymore 
 time fixing bugs or adding some more content so they just made it gold and moob released another 
 Good but not Great game.
  
  The levels themselves ae great and more non linear than other WW2 shooters seeing as they're made 
 like mini towns you can drop into any part of it and wonder about. Theres not many scripted events 
 with the enemy but the ones i hate the most are the stupid Tanks with will just follow a scripted 
 circular path and will do soo even when they're taking damage until they go boom. However everything 
 looks great specially just as you drop in with the dramatic plane being hit sequence. Only problem 
 is that theres not enough levels and you'll never feel bored with the game, just disappointed because 
 you want more, maybe in a expansion hey.
  
  Also this game has a great cover system which never puts you into third person so you go upto a 
 wall and right click to go to iron sight and you'll be stuck to the wall. As your holding down 
 the right mouse button you can use the wasd keys to move in and out of cover and if you press down 
 you can even go further down for more cover so your heads not in the firering line. Another great 
 thing is the mix of health bar and recharging health like COD2 style. So you'll have 4 health bars 
 and as you take damage you'll obviously lose life but it you take cover before your health goes 
 down to the next bar, it'll regen. However if it goes down to the next bar then you've lost that 
 bar until you pickup a health pack which depeding on the difficulty will be easier or harder to 
 find. I think this health system is perfect because it's not so easy to stay alive as COD2 but 
 you wont be looking for health packs every 5 mins and gives youa incentive to take cover.
  
  There weapons are your typical WW2 ones but what i found strange is you can choose to use the 
 german guns when you kit out before each level. It would have been better if you had to pick them 
 up in the battlefield to use them, seems abit weird how you can go into battle kitted out with 
 them. The sounds of the weapons and kick back is all reallly amazing but the hit detection is abit 
 off sometimes and annoying as it can get you killed.
  
  The graphics are fantastic and they go all cinematic when your running like Gears of War apart 
 from you can shoot and the camera stays first person. I really love them when your on the plane 
 on the final 3 levels which all look amazing. Just very immersive and cinematic and the best you've 
 seen in a WW2 shooter to date. The sounds are all great and the music is nice when you hear it 
 and the sound effects are amazing. Only downside i can think of with the sounds are the in agme 
 voice overs which can get very repetitive at times.
  
  The multiplayer seems to be bugged at the moment with something up with dedicated servers so i 
 can't comment much on it. However it seems very buggy and just to be your standard FPS multiplayer, 
 nothing special so wont really get you away from your current one.
  
  All in all MOH: A is a good game but just not a GREAT one because it lacks length and has quite 
 alot of bugs and glitches which ruin it. It seems to me that EA just decided to rush the game to 
 be released without giving it much thought that it'll be better for everyone to have a few more 
 months with polish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commando8535
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Those who played Medal of Honor Pacific Assault knows that the game was really an under appreciated 
 game; it was a well conceived game but never got the recognition it deserved.
  
  Medal of Honor Airborne is the newest addition to the series and let me say I had mixed feelings 
 about it.
  
  As the title implies the game is about Paratroopers (82nd and 17th Airborne to be specific) you 
 follow the shoes of Pfc. Boyd Travers a paratrooper with the 82nd Airborne Division and later on 
 the 17th Airborne Division through some of history's darkest moments.
  
  The Review:
  
  Gameplay:
  
  I was really hoping that EA would combine the fast action of the original MOH 
 with Pacific Assault's tactics and intensity. Unfortunately this game only gives the player the 
 fast action of MOH. I hate to say it but the game is just another run and gun, Rambo style shoot 
 em up game; very little tactics are used. As the game implies it's about the Airborne and I was 
 impressed how EA implemented the insertion of the paratroopers into a shooting game, This part 
 I thought was well done as you drop from 1,000 AGL into the shooting gallery of Europe. Where you 
 land decides how easy or how hard the fighting will be, you can take any objectives first there 
 is no fixed list on what you must take. The game is linear in mission design by that I mean there 
 are MANY paths into taking an objective, obviously where you land decides what objective you take 
 first, landing in a safe zone means you have an equal distance to targets; you can also load up 
 on ammo and health; landing in a red or danger zone well you can guess. The game also implements 
 modification to weapons, such as muzzle brakes, grenade launcher fore grips and all that good stuff. 
 To earn these modifications you have to kill a lot of Germans. Unlike the original MOH or MOHPA 
 there are no hidden or secret objectives thus there are few medals to be earned. Which brings me 
 to another point, that of hidden or secret objectives; MOHA is very straight forward in that you 
 have four or five objectives you have to take and that's it. Soldiers (I'm currently one) are supposed 
 to take the initiative and destroy or take whatever maybe vital to an operation. Another part of 
 the game that I was really disappointed with how fast the game goes. Unlike it's original counter-parts. 
 Operations are only One LONG mission. No spilt missions to make the operation longer none of that 
 anymore. As most people know I am a realism whore when it comes to FPS's about modern or WW2. This 
 game is borderline, The Airborne drops were done accurately but where the troops were dropped was 
 a complete mess-up. No paratrooper was ever dropped during the day on June 6th, no 82nd paratrooper 
 was ever dropped in the city of Nijmegen. Storyline:
  
  Well to be honest there is no storyline. Your Boyd Travers a paratrooper who has to survive six 
 operations. That's it.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Doesn't take a genius to figure out Dx10 in partnership with the Unreal engine makes some pretty 
 good graphics. However I was disappointed in the fact that the environment (buildings, walls) can't 
 be blown up. Since it is a T rated game there are no blown limbs and mangled bodies.
  
  Sound:
  
  Have to say that this part of the game does war justice. The intensity of the firefights 
 (having been in one albeit training) I can vouch for the sounds here.
  
  Final say:
  
  The games concept was on the right track but in my opinion it didn't do the Airborne forces of 
 WW2 any justice. I mean come one Normandy was only one mission? What about the infamous battle 
 at St. Mere Eglise? or La Fiere? And in Operation Market Garden, no battle of Groesbeck or Grave? 
 The game did not do any justice to the 8,511 casualties of the 82nd Airborne. Good concept flawed 
 execution. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxton
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2007 3:53 pm PT
Review:  this is a great game, i love playing WW2 games and i have to say that this is one of the best. 
 I played the demo over and over and now that it is out i get to beat it over and over. oh and not 
 to mention that the game looks great and the AI is great too, i've found that it'll rush you and 
 take cover when it's needed, and use gun emplacements and such wisely, these are all reasons to 
 why i gave the game such a great score. if you ever get the chance.. buy this game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenix_333
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 6, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is really good, I love this game because of great gameplay ,wonderful graphic and easy 
 controls, this is best medal of honor game, this is best medal of honor game. enemies are on medium 
 level i think, game has really lot's of air missions. briefing looks great, and i din't say that, my 
 soldiers are very smart and they don't die stupid, they think and cover me and cover other soldiers. maybe 
 1 bad thing is that the game is maybe a little short, but that's that. and i need to say that multiplayer 
 will be very good expirience 4 me. and i love points i get on guns, such as, faster shooting and that. i 
 just simply love this game, i think this game will be like a cod 4 or evene better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solodad619
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 6, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  Gameplayis fun, graphics are sharp but not ground breaking. Sound is passable but again, has been 
 done better elsewhere. The linear gameplay although you can start anywhere, is well done with clear 
 objectives. I was disappointed with the short length of the bame and the reliance on arcade style 
 replay the map and get the super power up to advance mentality. the multiple expert landing areas 
 are a unique twist, but do not add to the replay value.
  The weapons are well done although they all feel extremely arcadish and non responsive. Multiplayer 
 is fun. thegame lobby needs major work. Reminds me of BF series issues with simply joininga game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrimsonFlame21
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 5, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Not a surprise that the dregs of the gaming industry, EA, has shown its true self once again in 
 the shamefully over-hyped and underdeveloped game Medal of Honor: Airborne. While being absolutely 
 unworthy of the $50-$60 price tag, Airborne does show many unique elements, at least when compared 
 to the successful Call of Duty series. These include but are not limited to repetitive weapons, 
 ridiculous weapon recoil ratios, and a campaign which fails to use all of the elements of the game 
 to their full potential. All things taken into account, the online aspect of the game does bring 
 some depth to the game especially in how you may customize your weapons (although such standards 
 seem to have been copied and pasted out of other EA-adulterated games such as the Battlefield series) 
 The bottom line is that this game may be worth a rent, but unless you have Xbox Live, the online 
 features which save this game from being a total loss might as well be gone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cunhero
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  I think Airborne has a great game-play and is very fun to play. Still the game is too short talking 
 about levels, but if you raise the difficult a little the levels will be more difficult to pass. 
 The game has its problems like all of the games and can be fixed in a patch. Airborne gives you 
 a intense single player combat, and a very good multi-player, every time you play the fight will 
 be different. Airborne is the revolution of the FPS games. You 59 bucks will worth it. In the trailers 
 the game looked like fun and it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_andross
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  I'f you're going to buy this game, Recommend you wait and rent it first, The sigle player campaign 
 is extremely short, and the multiplayer get's boring fast, Control's are adequate, though some 
 implementation's could of been added to make it better. Enemy A. I. is decent enough, although don't 
 be surprised by there foolishness. Allied A. I. is exremely weak, only killing opponents when the 
 melee them, Graphic's are excellent, although certain model detail's could of been improved. Gun's 
 are decent, although the lack of some is disappointing, Multiplayer is great fun while it last's, 
 and the Sound of the game is excellent. Altogether an OK game. Just, rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lxy4564
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2007 7:07 am PT
Review:  I like the open end idea of the game, better than the linear one we have been playing for the past 
 years. However, the aim should be addressed in the next patch i believe, it is a bit too much the 
 recoil. Otherthan the aim problem, i think the game is okay, very intense and action packed. Graphic 
 wise, you do need a very fast computer to run it. I have an AMD 4400 X2 with 2 G ram and a 7600GS 
 card, i can max out all the detail at 1024.768, ( but don't think anyone will run at these resolution, 
 most monitor has more resolution than this setting) , I would need to upgrade the video card to 
 8600GT to run it smooth.
  
  I would recommend people to buy it, but the price tag is a bit high, should be somewhere around 
 39.99. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maxx_2T
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  The aiming of any first person shooter is, repeat, is the core of the game. If you can't constantly 
 improve in getting the bad guys, it's a boring game. Maybe you need a quad core processor, a $1000 
 video card, and 5 gigs of memory to overcome it. BUT, when you fire at the enemies, you never really 
 know whether you've come close. This is especially in close combat (clearing rooms, for example) . 
 And this lack of immediate objectives is annoying. In single player, you want objectives, and you 
 want to know you reached them. In the first level -- the only one I played -- it's more like a 
 multi-player game. Keep killing as best as you can. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
